But the question remains: Did Epstein’s wealth and social connections—former President Bill Clinton; Prince Andrew; former Israeli
Prime Minister Ehud Barak; New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson; and former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers were just a few of the
prominent passengers on his private jets—allow him to receive only aslap on the wrist for crimes that carry a mandatory 20-year
sentence? Was he able, with his limitless assets and heavy-hitting lawyers—Alan Dershowitz, Gerald Lefcourt, Roy Black, Kenneth Starr,
Guy Lewis, and Martin Weinberger among them—to escape equal justice?

Epstein Faces Sex-Traffic Probe
http://www.thedailyb...obref=obnetwork

Hedge-fund manager Jeffrey Epstein completed his sentence for soliciting prostitution with a minor last week. But it appears his problems
may not be over. Now The Daily Beast has learned that:

Under the concept of double jeopardy, Epstein can no longer be prosecuted for any of the charges covered by his non-prosecution
agreement, in which he agreed to serve a short term of incarceration, fund the civil suits of named victims, and register as a sex offender.

The victims who accepted cash settlements in these civil suits agreed not to testify against him or speak publicly about the case. However,

new evidence developed by the Department of Justice on other offenses not covered by the agreement, including allegations by additional
STE SCORES eee, There is no statute of limitations in the federal sex-trafficking law, which was also

enacted by the state of Florida in 2002. Because his predatory habits stretch back many years and involved dozens of young-looking girls,
there may well be more evidence to uncover. (Several young women who claim to be Epstein victims have recently contacted a Ft.
Lauderdale lawyer, but to date no new civil complaints have been filed.)

* Conchita Sarnoff: The Billionaire Pedphile's Sex Den

* Billionaire Pedophile Goes Free

These new developments come one week after the publication of two articles in The Daily Beast about Epstein’s pattern of sexual contact
with underage girls, which Palm Beach police began investigating in 2005 and the U.S. Attorney’s office then settled in a 2007 plea deal.
The first article quoted a deposition by then-Palm Beach Chief of Police Michael Reiter, in which he stated that Epstein, a billionaire with
many powerful friends, had received special treatment in both his plea deal and the terms of his incarceration. Although federal
investigators at one point produced a draft 53-page indictment against Epstein, he was eventually allowed to plead guilty to only two
relatively minor state charges and receive a short term of incarceration: 13 months in the county jail, during which he went to the office
every day, and one year of community control, during which he traveled frequently to New York and his private island in the Virgin
Islands.

The Daily Beast has now discovered another instance in which Epstein apparently received special consideration: Asaconvicted sex

. This is because child molesters tend to be repeat offenders with high rates of recidivism. According to a

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029626
