recover this in the future through endowment payout would require on the order of an additional $2B in endowment. These indirect cost
funds partially reimburse MIT for upkeep of research buildings and equipment, and literally keeping the lights and heating and cooling
systems on. A portion of the money also pays administrative costs required to implement federal regulations and to provide staff who
help apply for and monitor federal grants.

A cap on indirect costs would directly affect research and researchers. If MIT failed to receive the federal funds needed to operate
research infrastructure, we would need to limit the number of federal grants that the Institute accepts. It would be necessary to
introduce a process analogous to under-recovery of foundation proposals to identify the indirect costs to support each federal grant.
While we would seek other ways to raise revenues, we would also need to cut other expenditures (¢.g., through layoffs, salary freezes,
etc.), reduce the use of research facilities to cut operating costs, and/or to allow facilities to deteriorate. All of our peer institutions are
considering similar steps. In short, a cut to indirect costs is a cut to research funding. And it’s a cut that’s more difficult to handle than a
decision by a federal agency not to fund a particular project in a given year.

The percentage of federal research funding that goes to indirect costs has remained relatively steady for decades, and there has been
a federal cap on administrative costs since the 1990s. The Administration may hope that a proposed cap on indirect costs is seen as
mitigating the impact of their proposed 22% reduction of the NIH budget. Although it may obscure this impact, in reality it will worsen
it. The Administration is claiming that a cut to indirect costs will not cut research, but in truth without indirect cost recovery, academic
institutions, including MIT, will not be able to afford to support current levels of federal grants.

The MIT administration is working on this matter with the urgency that it deserves. Let us be clear that no one on campus should be
blasé or unconcerned about the proposal to cap indirect costs. Capping these costs will negatively impact every researcher at MIT.

Please let us know if you have any questions or comments. We will keep you informed as this situation evolves.
Sincerely,

Martin A. Schmidt
Maria T. Zuber

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029430
