Empathy can be defined as our
natural capacity to share, appreciate, and
respond to the affective states of others.
This capacity is essential for the
regulation of social interactions. For
instance, empathy is believed to
motivate prosocial behavior and inhibit
aggressive behavior (2). In addition, our
ability to share the emotions of those we
observe binds us to each other and
fosters a collective social identity.
Empathy’s invisible power is that it
moves us to cooperate, coordinate our
behaviors, and provide the needed care
for one another. Notably, however,
empathic concern does not necessarily
lead to empathic behavior. First,
empathy poses a paradox, as sharing of
feelings does not necessarily imply that
one will act or even feel impelled to act
in a supportive or sympathetic way.
Second, the complexity of the social and
emotional situations eliciting empathic
concern influences the probability and
nature of the help provided. Whether and
how empathic actions are expressed
depends on the feelings we perceive in
the other, our relationship with that
individual, and the context in which we
share an emotional state.

Empathy is critical for complex
human interactions, but this does not
mean that empathy and prosocial
behavior have suddenly appeared with
Homo sapiens. If empathy is a potent
invisible force generated by the social
brain, some form of emotion-sharing
should also be evident in other social
species such as non-human primates.
Indeed, field observations conducted by
comparative psychologists and
ethologists suggest that behaviors
homologous to empathy can be found in
non-human primates (2). Some have
argued that empathy is not an all-or-
nothing phenomenon, and that many

Page | 86

intermediate forms of empathy exist
between the extremes of mere agitation
at the distress of another and full
understanding of their predicaments (3).
Many comparative psychologists view
empathy as a kind of induction process
by which emotions, both positive and
negative, are shared, and which increase
the probability that the protagonists will
subsequently engage in similar behavior.

Though certain non-human
primates may share feelings between
individuals, humans seem to have the
unique ability to intentionally “feel for”
and act on behalf of other individuals
whose experiences may differ greatly
from their own. Such a capacity may
help explain why empathic concern is
often associated with prosocial behaviors
such as helping kin, and why it has been
considered the foundation for altruism,
the expression of empathy and caring for
those who are not kin. Evolutionary
biologists have suggested that empathic
helping behavior evolved because of its
contribution to genetic fitness (kin
selection). In humans and other
mammals, an impulse to care for
offspring is almost certainly genetically
hard-wired. Less clear, however, is
whether an impulse to care for siblings,
more remote kin, and similar non-kin is
genetically hard-wired. The emergence
of altruism is not easily explained within
the framework of neo-Darwinian
theories of natural selection (but see
Cacioppo’s chapter on this point). Social
learning explanations of kinship patterns
in human helping behavior are thus
highly plausible. Indeed, one of the most
striking aspects of human empathy is
that it can be felt for virtually any
“target,” even targets of a different
species (animals included). We can see
a deer hurt by a passing car or the dogs
locked in crates at a shelter and feel

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021332
