pressure leads to a global qualitative change in physical state. Analogously, the loss
of topological equivalence occurs at the fixed point that, for examples, splits into two
or explodes into a cyclic orbit in phase space. The same critical point behaviors and
quantities occur in a wide variety of specific processes and their equations, and they
are independent of the way the trajectories first arrived in the fixed point
neighborhood. Once the system enters the regime of critical behavior, the predictive
significance of its dynamical history is lost. This may also be the case for emergent
psychiatric disorder (Mandell et al, 1985; Mandell and Selz, 1992; Ehlers, 1995;
Paulus et al, 1996; Huber et al, 1999).

There are diagnostic patterns of behavior when a nonlinear system is in a
neighborhood of a potential bifurcation. They include sudden and/or large jumps
resulting from a small change in experimental conditions, the appearance of big
baseline fluctuations (anomalously large variance), the lengthening of the time

on

required to relax following evoked or spontaneous perturbation (“critical slowing”),
the same global change in state occurring at different values of the parameter when
increasing versus decreasing a parameter’s value (“hysteresis”), the existence of
some range of values of the observable that cannot be attained by manipulation of
the parameter (“inaccessibility”) and the availability of two or more distinct states in
the same parameter neighborhood (“modality”) (Thom, 1972; Arnold, 1984; Gilmore,
1981). It is perhaps relevant to polydrug psychopharmacology and clinical
management that the higher the co-dimension (the greater number of effective
parameters being manipulated), the greater the accessibility and control of selected
state stability becomes with respect to difficult to obtain behaviors. Examples of the
potential advantages of simultaneous manipulation of multiple influences have been

developed for affect disorder and anorexia nervosa (Callahan and Sashin, 1987).

As evidence for the independence of critical behavior from specific history,
the qualitatively universal bifurcations along the four canonical routes to chaos
manifest dimensionless ratios of parameter and phase space geometries between
bifurcations. These ratios are quantitatively universal. The formalisms that rescale
the distances from fixed points in parameter and observable spaces result in the

same picture across scale, a dilatational symmetry (also called self similarity or

198

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013698
