TED2017: The future you

https://ted2017.ted.com/program

4/20/17, 12:07 PM

Architect

Grace H. Kim is an internationally recognized expert in cohousing -- the art and craft of creating communities.

Grace H. Kim is an architect and co-founding principal of Schemata Workshop, an award-winning, 16-person architectural practice with a
keen focus on building community and social equity. She brings innovative ideas to her projects that merge client goals and sustainability
measures -- such as urban agriculture, modular construction, and a focus on building community.

Kim is also the founder of Capito] Hill Urban Cohousing, a collaborative residential community that includes her street-level office and a
rooftop urban farm. She walks the talk of sustainability -- leaving a small ecological footprint while incorporating holistic ideals of social
and economic resilience into her daily life.

schemataworkshop.com @GraceKimArch

Devita Davison
Food activist

At FoodLab Detroit, Devita Davison supports local entrepreneurs and imagines a new future for food justice.

Detroit is a legendary food town, and it's thanks to small, locally owned businesses that range from streetside barbecue tents to
neighborhood bakeries, shops and delis -- even small farms. At FoodLab Detroit, Devita Davison helps locals with ideas for a food
business to take their dreams into delicious reality, by connecting them with business advice, help with compliance and licensing, space in
professional kitchens, marketing ideas and more. The nonprofit focuses on entrepreneurs and communities who have been traditionally
under-resourced, aiming to build power and resilience for people around the city.

FoodLab's vision is to cultivate, connect and catalyze, to use food as an economic engine, to form a supportive community of entrepreneurs
and to make good food a reality for all Detroiters.

On LinkedIn @devitadavison

Karoliina Korppoo
Game designer

Inspired by classic city simulation games, Finnish designer Karoliina Korppoo and her fellow game developers at Colossal Order are
infusing a venerable gaming genre with fresh perspectives.

Developed by gaming upstarts Colossal Order and guided by Korppoo as lead designer, Cities: Skylines has become the gold standard for
city simulation games -- an honor previously held by the genre-defining Sim City.

At the core of Colossal Order’s rejuvenated game designs is their dedication to creating an accessible experience for all users, whether
through ease of use or by allowing users to suggest their own modifications. As a result, Colossal Order doesn’t shy away from game
projects that touch on the problems of urbanization, gentrification or the possibilities of servicing a city with nothing but gravel roads.

colossalorder.fi @pelikaroliina

Cathy O'Neil
Mathematician, data scientist

Data skeptic Cathy O’Neil uncovers the dark secrets of big data, showing how our objective algorithms could in fact reinforce human
bias.

In 2008, as a hedge-fund quant, mathematician Cathy O’Neil saw firsthand how really really bad math could lead to financial disaster.
Disillusioned, O’Neil became a data scientist and eventually joined Occupy Wall Street’s Alternative Banking Group.

With her popular blog mathbabe.org, O’ Neil emerged as an investigative journalist. Her acclaimed book Weapons of Math Destruction
details how opaque, black-box algorithms rely on biased historical data to do everything from sentence defendants to hire workers. In
2017, O’Neil founded consulting firm ORCAA to audit algorithms for racial, gender and economic inequality.

mathbabe.org @mathbabedotorg

Luma Mufieh
Refugee activist

Luma Mufleh does something revolutionary: she coaches soccer. A Jordanian immigrant and Muslim of Syrian descent, Mufleh is
determined to empower refugee children every where.

Luma Mufleh works with refugee children from war-torn countries, including Syria, Iraq, Burundi, Afghanistan, Somalia and Sudan. The
CEO and Founding Director of Fugees Family, Inc., a nonprofit organization that empowers refugee children to successfully integrate into
the United States, Mufleh started as a soccer coach. Her work grew into something much larger, however.

Now, she’s part principal, part tutor, the head of the first accredited private school dedicated to refugee education in the country, which

encompases a summer camp and a college prep program -- and she’s building a community and support network that could be the national
model the United States needs.

fugeesfamily.org @fugeesfamily

David Miliband

Page 14 of 21

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014964
