Before describing the relatively new set of measures of biological processes
designed to find and quantitate what are assumed to be relatively sample size
insensitive, distributionally nonconvergent and multiply correlated processes that
are without a single time or space scale, we should remind ourselves that there is
already much more apparent “order” in a generically random situation than our
intuitions would lead us to believe. For example, if we keep cumulative scores in a
competition between heads and tails and determine the distribution of trials between
those in which the number of heads and tails are even, we will get periods between
zero crossings of many lengths with very short ones and very (very) long ones
being most statistically prominent. The distribution of these wavelengths is shaped
like a symmetrically fat-tailed, bowl (Feller, 1968). As another illustration, expected
runs of heads or tails in this Gaussian random task are longer and more frequent
than we might suspect. It has been proven that the expected run length grows with
n coin flips (as an order of magnitude estimate) like the logarithm (for a fair coin,
base 1/p = 1/0.5 = 2) of n. For example, in 512 ( e.g. 2°) tosses, we cannot report a
run of 9 heads as a evidence for a biased coin or the sign of some deterministic
coin tossing mechanism (Erdos and Renyi, 1970). If we had a 0.6 head biased coin,
then the observation of a run of 13 heads couldn’t dissuade us from a random

mechanism!

Unlike our random coin task, the variances of many, perhaps most, time
series of biologically-relevant events, do not tend to converge onto a limiting value
as sample size, n, grows, but rather continue to increase (or decrease) with n ina
scale invariant manner. Instead of “regressing to the mean” with increasing sample
length or number, the likelinood of a larger deviation than previously observed
increases with n. Analyses of inter-event intervals reveals a multiplicity of
characteristic times. One interpretation of these finding might be that this represents
evidence for the inherent “nonstationarity” of biological mechanisms as reflected in,
for examples, the frequency of saccades concomitant with ceaselessly shifting foci
of visual attention (Steriade and McCarley, 1990), or our inability to not think of
“white bear’ when so instructed (Wegner, 1994). Hermann Haken, the father of

laser-inspired “synergetics,” has said that biological mechanisms are not in a steady

207

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013707
