TED2017: The future you

4/20/17, 12:07 PM

She remains a vocal proponent of peace negotiations between the Colombian government and the FARC.

Tuesday, April 25, 5:00PM - 7:00PM PDT

Session 4: Health, Life, Love

Hosted by Chris Anderson, Anna Verghese and Bruno Giussani.
Not attending TED2017? Watch Session 4 — TED Prize — broadcast to cinemas! Find showtimes

https://ted2017.ted.com/program

Serena Williams
Athlete

With her legendary spirit and unstoppable serve, tennis legend Serena Williams has become one of the world’s most enduring athletic
superstars.

Serena Williams sits at the top of the tennis world; she's won 23 career Grand Slams, which is the most Grand Slam singles titles in history,
with her most recent win at the 2017 Australian Open. In some analysts’ eyes, she's quite simply the greatest athlete of all time.

But Williams has extended her influence far beyond the tennis court. Through her activism, high-profile endorsements, TV and film
appearances and writing (including a guide to life written with her sister, Venus), Williams inspires millions of fans worldwide.

serenawilliams.com @serenawilliams on Instagram

Gayle King
Journalist

Gayle King is a co-host of CBS This Morning” and Editor-at-Large of the award-winning O, the Oprah Magazine.

An award-winning journalist who has worked across television, radio and print, Gayle King is a co-host of CBS This Morning and Editor-
at-Large of O, the Oprah Magazine.

King previously hosted The Gayle King Show, a live, weekday television interview program on OWN: The Oprah Winfrey Network. The
program, which featured a discussion of a broad variety of topics that include politics, cultural developments, was also broadcast on XM
Satellite Radio, where it premiered in 2006.

Before moving into print and radio, King worked for 18 years (1982-2000) as a television news anchor for CBS affiliate WFSB-TV in
Hartford, Conn., during which period, she also hosted her own syndicated daytime program. Prior to joining WFSB, King worked at
several other television stations, including WDAF-TV in Kansas City, Mo. (1978-1981), WJZ-TV in Baltimore, Md. (1976), and WTOP-
TV in Washington, D.C. (1975).

King has received numerous awards for her extensive work as a journalist. In addition to three Emmys, she was honored in 2008 with the
American Women in Radio & Television Gracie Award for Outstanding Radio Talk Show and in 2010 with both the Individual
Achievement Award for Host-Entertaimment/Information and the New York Women in Communications' Matrix Award.

cbsnews.com/cbs-this-morning @GayleKing

Atul Gawande
Surgeon, journalist

Surgeon by day and public health journalist by night, Atul Gawande explores how doctors can dramatically improve their practice using
something as simple as a checklist.

Atul Gawande is author of several best-selling books, including Complications: A Surgeon's Notes on an Imperfect Science, Better: A

He is also a surgeon at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston, a staff writer for The New Yorker and a professor at Harvard Medical
School and the Harvard School of Public Health. He has won the Lewis Thomas Prize for Writing about Science, a MacArthur Fellowship
and two National Magazine Awards. In his work in public health, he is Executive Director of Ariadne Labs, a joint center for health
systems innovation and chair of Lifebox, a nonprofit organization making surgery safer globally.

Photo: Aubrey Calo

atulgawande.com ariadnelabs.org

Anna Rosling Rénnlund
Co-founder of Gapminder

Anna Rosling R6nnlund's personal mission: to make it easy for anyone to understand the world visually.

Always with the end consumer at heart, Anna Rosling R6nnlund spends her days making sure everything at Gapminder -- a site she
cofounded with Hans and Ola Rosling -- is easy to use and easy to understand. On Gapminder, users can explore data and statistics about
the world -- and, just maybe, upend their worldview.

Page 8 of 21

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014958
