92 Teaching Minds

5. Designer Genes—Students consider ethical and political issues
related to genetic engineering, for example, cloning, gene
therapies, and the manufacturing of drugs. In the process
they learn about DNA and the basics of genetic engineering.

6. Plant Plague—Students working for a fictional county farming
agency are faced with an anomalous powdery mildew that
has infected wheat in their local area. They investigate how
the new strain of mildew arose and how it spread to this area
and crop in particular. They work to develop a treatment for
the current crop; then they develop a way to alter the wheat
or the way in which it is grown to prevent future fungal
outbreaks.

7. Medical Detective—Students work with the fictional county
medical examiner to conduct medical investigations. They
are asked to determine the time and cause of death for
various mysterious cases.

8. Cutting Costs Without Cutting Care—In this rotation,
students consider business aspects related to healthcare.
Students play the role of a hospital consultant whose job
it is to discern why the hospital is losing money and make
recommendations for correcting the situation. In the process
they confront ethical issues related to cutting costs in the
area of healthcare.

9. Outbreak—In this rotation, students work in the areas
of infectious disease, epidemiology, and public health
administration. They begin by diagnosing the cause of a
fictional patient’s infection that stems from bacteria in a
food item. They then learn that many people across the
country have been found with similar illnesses. Students
have to develop a plan to manage the outbreak due to the
availability of the food item to a wide population. Later they
are fictionally hired to develop a readiness plan for a possible
worldwide pandemic.

Students spend weeks in each rotation. What do they learn?
Remember, the answer cannot be that they learn about health sci-
ences. Why not?
Because that is really not the issue. No high school student learn-
ing a subject really learns that subject. Students forget what they have

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023838
