TERSON

iy you went?
—he used to tell me 1 was his

je bought me—

e Neon. I got a plane—! got a
ot spending money whenever |
jeep. | was—he asked my par-
yuld live with him. Or he didn’t
to ask my parents, I'm sorry. He

ive with him.

nt to call it. Yeah. Um, but it
ased my pay, as long as he could
put anything inside of me. And
e day he just put his hand, like,

ym the very first time you went?
xt track, like, of, of what happened
hich order things progressed.

ids the middle and end of my
- that for the last, like, six or eight
n't have a car cause I gave it back
ked me to have sex with him and,
f [giggles], and I was just like, no.
‘TIl let you touch me, but I'm not

Neon 2005. He got it for me before ,

member I got it—it was an edition

42

Firtay Ric

that was a year before they were supposed to come out. So if I
got it, I obviously didn’t get a 2006, ‘cause that’s this year. I
got a 2005 Neon in 2004. Seven miles on it when I got it. The
car was awesome [giggles].

I gave it back before I graduated. It got too—it got too sticky
for me. He wanted more than I was willing to give. I didn't
wanna—I didn’t want to, um, suck his dick. I didn’t want to.
have sex with him. I never did that, and I wanted to be able
to walk away from this saying that 1—saying that I never did
that. And I’m glad that I did.

But I lied to him when I gave it back. I didn’t want to burn my
bridges, because he was a spectacular connection to have.
Spectacular. Even if 1 didn’t—even when I didn’t work for
him. Until this day, he is so aw—he is so—I haven't talked
to him in, like, a couple months, but if I called him today he
would give me as much money as I asked him for. He doesn’t
know that I hate him the way I do. I kept that connection. I
figured he used me, I'd be able to use him. Um, I hate to say
that, but I figured if I wanted to use him I could.

: Okay. Let me bring you back a little bit.
; sure.

: When did things start to escalate as far as things happening

when the massages were given?

: They escalated whenever he wanted. I don’t clearly under-

stand the question.

: Okay. The first time you went, you were naked —
: Are you asking for a date?
: Oh, no, no, no—

43

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019159
