She and Kushner then united as a power couple, consciously recasting themselves as
figures of ultimate attainment, ambition, and satisfaction in the new global world and as
representatives of a new eco-philanthropic-art sensibility. For Ivanka, this included her
friendship with Wendi Murdoch and with Dasha Zhukova, the then wife of the Russian
oligarch Roman Abramovich, a fixture in the international art world, and, just a few
months before the election, attending a Deepak Chopra seminar on mediation with
Kushner. She was searching for meaning—and finding it. This transformation was further
expressed not just in ancillary clothing, jewelry, and footwear lines, as well as reality TV
projects, but in a careful social media presence. She became a superbly coordinated
everymom, who would, with her father’s election, recast herself again, this time as royal
family.

And yet, the larger truth was that Ivanka’s relationship with her father was in no way a
conventional family relationship. If it wasn’t pure opportunism, it was certainly
transactional. It was business. Building the brand, the presidential campaign, and now the
White House—it was all business.

But what did Ivanka and Jared really think of their father and father-in-law? “There’s
great, great, great affection—you see it, you really do,” replied Kellyanne Conway,
somewhat avoiding the question.

“They’re not fools,” said Rupert Murdoch when asked the question.

“They understand him, I think truly,” reflected Joe Scarborough. “And they appreciate
his energy. But there’s detachment.” That is, Scarborough went on, they have tolerance but
few illusions.

OOK Ok

Ivanka’s breakfast that Friday at the Four Seasons was with Dina Powell, the latest
Goldman Sachs executive to join the White House.

In the days after the election, Ivanka and Jared had both met with a revolving door of
lawyers and PR people, most of them, the couple found, leery of involvement, not least
because the couple seemed less interested in bending to advice and more interested in
shopping for the advice they wanted. In fact, much of the advice they were getting had the
same message: surround yourself—acquaint yourselves—with figures of the greatest
establishment credibility. In effect: you are amateurs, you need professionals.

One name that kept coming up was Powell’s. A Republican operative who had gone on
to high influence and compensation at Goldman Sachs, she was quite the opposite of
anyone’s notion of a Trump Republican. Her family emigrated from Egypt when she was a
girl, and she is fluent in Arabic. She worked her way up through a series of stalwart
Republicans, including Texas senator Kay Bailey Hutchison and House Speaker Dick
Armey. In the Bush White House she served as chief of the personnel office and an
assistant secretary of state for educational and cultural affairs. She went to Goldman in

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019945
