unrelated to this case, documents related to the

settlements. Other than proving the existence of the

. ; :
case, there's very little an investor, at least from
my end, investigates into the actual case. It was

more after having the case exist and not caring about
really what was going on in the case other than a lot

of money was going to be collected.

Q. Well, with respect to showing them that the
case existed and that there was a likelihood of a
possibility of a payday at the end, how did you
convince them of that? What did you use to convince
them of that?

A. 1 did two main things. One, | put the boxes

in my office while they were there. ] told them to
specifically look at a couple of sheets of a flight

manifest that was in the file that Russ had shown me.
And ] told them that it would be a breach of

attorney/client privilege for them to look at the
file, but that ] was going to step out for a while and.

leave them there with the boxes, wink, wink, and

that's what I did. I stepped out, ] let them look at
whatever they wanted to Jook at. 1 came back in, they
were satisfied that it was areal case and ] was off

and running,

Q. And these were the real legitimate files for
Page 40

eA
Ea

A. | talked to Russ Adler. ] may have talked
to some of the other Jawyers._] flipped through
certain boxes in the file.

Q. How did you get the boxes?

A. lj asked someone to bring them to me.

Q. Do you know where those files were stored?

A. | do not.

Q. So you flipped -- sorry, please continue.
Flipped through some files?

A. 1 flipped through some files. 1] had the

files in my office. The day that the investor group
came in, 1 actually had Ken Jenne and some others
actually bring me some more of the boxes actually into
my office while the investors were there. J already

had some of the boxes with me.

Q. You say Ken Jenne and others,” who were the
others to whom you are referencing?

A. | don't specifically recall who carried them
in. 1 was very focused on my investors at that time.

Q. Were any of the lawyers present with you

when you were meeting with these investors?
A. During the actual meeting with them, no. |]

recall that some of the Jawyers may have met some of
the investors, but ] don't recal] who.
Q. Do you recall approximately when that

cig aaNet ees ect atin eer

05 SLA ARR ELS TENA NWN HATE RE THUY STRESS UES me mR PS MSN

OpmwWNFOU WAI AU PWNYNFP COU WANA HS WN LH

NM NMNHNMNFPP BBE PR Pee

Page 38:

happened?

A. No, it's the same dates that ] was giving
you before.

Q. Okay. So you had, to further your Ponzi
scheme, you had to familiarize yourself with this case
so that you could speak intelligently with the
investors; is that correct?

A. Well, sort of because most of what ] told
the investors was all things that ] was creating as ]
went.

Q. About this particular case, the Epstein
case?

A. Yes, from an investor -- you have to
understand how the inner working of the Ponzi scheme
were crafted but --

Q. Please tell me then.

A. ]'m telling you -- hang on. From an
investor's standpoint, the investor is simply lookin
for is the case believable. And once they get past
that, is it of such case -- excuse me, is it of sucha
nature that it is possible to be generating a
significant amount of settlement dollars. And then
after that, their concern is simply on the due

diligence side of making sure we actually have the settlements.
money, that the documents pass -- the documents Q. Why was the flight manifest so interesting
Page 39 : Page 41

this case; is that correct?

A. These were the legitimate files, yes.

Q. Nothing had been created at this time for
them to look through?

A. |] didn't add anything to the case files.
The case files were significant enough by themselves.

Q. Do you know how long they were in your
office; days, weeks?

A. The people or the boxes?

Q. The boxes.

A. The boxes were in there probably a little
more than a week. | don't have a specific
recollection.

Q. Okay. Did you ever go through them?

A. Yes, ! flipped through them at some point in
time.

Q. And what do you recall about what you saw in
the cases? Do you remember anything?

A. J remember seeing the flight manifest. ]
don't recall seeing anything else. I'm sure ] looked

at other things, but again, for my purposes it was
insignificant to me because the actual content of the

boxes was not necessary in the sale of the fake

Orn oO FF WN FE

OwpwWNPFP OW DOAIDUOUBPWNFP DO WMIAYNBPWNEH

SSG SERENE cw ae Hee Ng I EN SAT NENA RUMEN DEE NU IE A HE PEERS S SENSIS BS SMA ALAS EO PNT TT ENR AN CSE OR
NNONMNNNNEPRP REP EPH EE

ll (Pages 38 to 41)

FRIEDMAN, LOMBARDI & OLSON
305-371-6677

5ed93085-0554-447f-bcdd-ca2d8fe941 df

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017500
