“I’m pretty good at coming up with solutions, I came up with a solution for his broke-
dick campaign in about a day, but I don’t see this. I don’t see a plan for getting through.
Now, I gave him a plan, I said you seal the Oval Office, you send those two kids home,
you get rid of Hope, all these deadbeats, and you listen to your legal team—Kasowitz, and
Mark Dowd, and Jay Sekulow, and Mark Corallo, these are all professionals who have
done this many times. You listen to those guys and never talk about this stuff again, you
just conduct yourself as commander in chief and then you can be president for eight years.
If you don’t, you’re not, simple. But he’s the president, he gets a choice, and he’s clearly
choosing to go down another path ... and you can’t stop him. The guy is going to call his
own plays. He’s Trump... .”

And then another call came, this one from Sam Nunberg. He, too, was calling about
Scaramucci, and his words caused something like stupefaction in Bannon: “No fucking,
fucking way.”

Bannon got off the phone and said, “Jesus. Scaramucci. I can’t even respond to this.
It’s Kafkaesque. Jared and Ivanka needed somebody to represent their shit. It’s madness.
He’ll be on that podium for two days and he’ll be so chopped he’ll bleed out everywhere.
He'll literally blow up in a week. This is why I don’t take this stuff seriously. Hiring
Scaramucci? He’s not qualified to do anything. He runs a fund of funds. Do you know
what a fund of funds 1s? It’s not a fund. Dude, it’s sick. We look like buffoons.”

OOK Ok

The ten days of Anthony Scaramucci, saw, on the first day, July 21, the resignation of
Sean Spicer. Oddly, this seemed to catch everyone unawares. In a meeting with
Scaramucci, Spicer, and Priebus, the president—who in his announcement of
Scaramucci’s hire as communications director had promoted Scaramucci not only over
Spicer, but in effect over Priebus, his chief of staff—suggested that the men ought to be
able to work it out together.

Spicer went back to his office, printed out his letter of resignation, and then took it
back to the nonplussed president, who said again that he really wanted Spicer to be a part
of things. But Spicer, surely the most mocked man in America, understood that he had
been handed a gift. His White House days were over.

For Scaramucci, it was now payback time. Scaramucci blamed his six humiliating
months out in the cold on nobody so much as Reince Priebus—having announced his
White House future, having sold his business in anticipation of it, he had come away with
nothing, or at least nothing of any value. But now, in a reversal befitting a true master of
the universe—befitting, actually, Trump himself—Scaramucci was in the White House,
bigger, better, and grander than even he had had the gall to imagine. And Priebus was dead
meat.

That was the signal the president had sent Scaramucci—deal with the mess. In Trump’s

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020097
