86 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

from Citizen Four were another matter. They contained the sort of
SCI communications intelligence data that no major newspaper had
ever published before. Their disclosure might result in journalists’
being imprisoned, because both British law and US. law criminal-
ized the disclosure by anyone of communications intelligence. As a
lawyer, Greenwald recognized this danger. On the other hand, the
NSA documents were far more explosive than the WikiLeaks mate-
rial and promised an even greater spike in circulation. So Greenwald
assumed that Gibson would be willing to authorize their publication
and provide the expenses for his trip to Hong Kong.

He flew from Rio to New York on May 30 to meet in person
with Gibson, who had concerns about publishing what were pur-
ported to be top secret documents that came from an anonymous
source. She was certainly not willing to go along with Citizen Four’s
demand that The Guardian publish his personal manifesto alongside
the documents. Aside from its shrill and alarming tone, it sounded,
as she told Greenwald, “a bit Ted Kaczynski-ish,” referring to the
mathematician known as the Unabomber who had maimed or killed

© twenty-six people with anonymous mail bombs between 1978 and ©
1995. Kaczynski had also demanded that newspapers publish his
personal manifesto. Gibson explained to Greenwald, “It is going to
sound crazy to some people.” Her concern was that it would detract
from the credibility of the rest of the story. Snowden had also writ-
ten to Greenwald to explain his position. “Even the Constitution is
subverted when the appetites of power demand it,” Snowden said.
Paraphrasing President Thomas Jefferson, he continued, “Let us
speak no more of faith in man, but bind him down from mischief by
the chains of cryptography.” Snowden, showing his cultlike faith in
encryption, substituted “cryptography” for Jefferson’s word “con-
stitution.” Gibson was unmoved. The stolen NSA documents were
another matter. They were an enormous scoop that could have a
greater impact than the WikiLeaks scoop.

Gibson authorized Greenwald’s trip to Hong Kong on the con-
dition that he take with him a Guardian staffer in whom she had
confidence, the Scottish-born Ewen MacAskill, a sixty-one-year-old
veteran journalist who had been the Washington bureau chief for
The Guardian. His assignment was to evaluate the bona fides of the

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 86 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019574
