Case 1:19-cv-03377 Document 1-14 Filed 04/16/19 Page 2 of 3

United States District Court
Southern District of New York

VIRGINIA L. GIUFFRE,

Plaintiff, Case No.: _
v.
ALAN DERSHOWITZ,
Defendant.
= /
AFFIDAVIT

I, Sarah Ransome, swear and affirm as follows:
1, Tam currently over the age of 18 and presently reside in the country of Spain.

2. In the summer of 2006, when I was twenty-two years old and living in New York,
I was introduced to Jeffrey Epstein by a girl I had met named Natalya Malyshov.
Shortly after meeting Jeffrey he invited me to fly to his private island in the US
Virgin Islands, which I did. After that first trip 1 traveled to the island several more
times, usually on one of Jeffrey's private airplanes, and always at his direction. I
am told that my name appears on the flight logs of one or more of those trips. On a
few occasions, Jeffrey also arranged to have me flown to the island on commercial
flights. As it turned out, the primary purpose of those visits was to have me have
sexual relations with Jeffrey, Nadia Macinkova, and various other girls and guests
he brought to the island.

3. During one of my visits to the island I met Ghislaine Maxwell. Watching her
interact with the other girls on the island, it became clear to me that she recruited
all or many of them to the island. Once they were there, she appeared to be in charge
of their activities, including what they did, who they did it with, and how they were
supposed to stay in line. She assumed the same supervisory role with me as soon
as I arrived. Some of the girls appeared to be 18 or older, but many appeared to be
young teenagers. I recall seeing a particularly young, thin girl who looked well
under 18 and recall asking her age. I later learned was a ballerina. She refused to
tell me or let me see her passport.

4. In addition to spending time with Jeffrey on his island, I spent time with him in
New York City. At his town house I was also lent out by him to his friends and

associates to have sex. Among the people he lent me to was his friend, Alan
Dershowitz. On one occasion I was in a bedroom at Jeffrey's New York townhouse

=

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018035
