place—even the new secretary of state designate, Rex Tillerson, had no real experience in
foreign policy. To bewildered foreign secretaries, it seemed logical to see the
presidentelect’s son-in-law as a figure of stability. Whatever happened, he would be there.
And for certain regimes, especially the familycentric Saudis, Kushner, the son-in-law, was
much more reassuring than a policy person. He wasn’t in his job because of his ideas.

Of the many Trump gashes in modern major-power governing, you could certainly
drive a Trojan horse through his lack of foreign policy particulars and relationships. This
presented a do-over opportunity for the world in its relationship with the United States—
or it did if you were willing to speak the new Trump language, whatever that was. There
wasn’t much of a road map here, just pure opportunism, a new transactional openness. Or,
even more, a chance to use the powers of charm and seduction to which Trump responded
as enthusiastically as he did to offers of advantageous new deals.

It was Kissingeresque realpolitik. Kissinger himself, long familiar with Trump by way
of the New York social world and now taking Kushner under his wing, was successfully
reinserting himself, helping to organize meetings with the Chinese and the Russians.

Most of America’s usual partners, and even many antagonists, were unsettled if not
horrified. Still, some saw opportunity. The Russians could see a free pass on the Ukraine
and Georgia, as well as a lifting of sanctions, in return for giving up on Iran and Syria.
Early in the transition, a high-ranking official in the Turkish government reached out in
genuine confusion to a prominent U.S. business figure to inquire whether Turkey would
have better leverage by putting pressure on the U.S. military presence in Turkey or by
offering the new president an enviable hotel site on the Bosporus.

There was something curiously aligned between the Trump family and MBS. Like the
entire Saudi leadership, MBS had, practically speaking, no education outside of Saudi
Arabia. In the past, this had worked to limit the Saudi options—nobody was equipped to
confidently explore new intellectual possibilities. As a consequence, everybody was wary
of trying to get them to imagine change. But MBS and Trump were on pretty much equal
footing. Knowing little made them oddly comfortable with each other. When MBS offered
himself to Kushner as his guy in the Saudi kingdom, that was “like meeting someone nice
at your first day of boarding school,” said Kushner’s friend.

Casting aside, in very quick order, previously held assumptions—in fact, not really
aware of those assumptions—the new Trump thinking about the Middle East became the
following: There are basically four players (or at least we can forget everybody else)—
Israel, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, and Iran. The first three can be united against the fourth. And
Egypt and Saudi Arabia, given what they want with respect to Iran—and anything else
that does not interfere with the United States’ interests—will pressure the Palestinians to
make a deal. Voila.

This represented a queasy-making mishmash of thought. Bannon’s isolationism (a pox

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020054
