On Dec 11, 2017, at 6:00 PM, Lawrence Krauss Po wrote:

Gee.. I just got out of a meeting and was trying to respond to your last one.. and I am now leaving for a 2 hour
drive to a book signing event... I will try and respond to all your emails when I get back home later
tonight.. I don’t want to rush anything off as I am already late..

On Dec 11, 2017, at 5:31 PM, Peter Aldhous (i S wrote:

Dear Dr. Krauss,
Apologies for the multiple emails.

Regarding #1, you say it refers to a consensual encounter in my hotel room in 2006 where we mutually
decided, in a polite discussion in fact, that taking it any further would not be appropriate, and there were
respectful and platonic encounters afterwards.

To clarify, are you saying that this mutual decision was reached in the hotel room? Or was this discussed
subsequently?

Sincerely,
Peter Aldhous

On 12/11/17 1:00 PM, Peter Aldhous wrote:

Dear Dr. Krauss,

Thank you for your responses, which state that the allegations made against you are false and/or distorted.
That does raise a question:

Why do you think that multiple women, over more than a decade, have separately made accusations against
you?

Sincerely,
Peter Aldhous

On 12/11/17 9:18 AM, Lawrence Krauss wrote:

I appreciate the opportunity to respond to your email. I am currently on a plane until noon pacific time, and
then heading to a meeting right after landing, till about 2 pm or so. While I am running the risk that you will
report my comments, if you do, either out of context, or incompletely, I am responding with an effort to be
complete, as I always try and do with reporters. If you decide to go ahead with a story, which, after reading
my responses, I hope you decide is inappropriate, I would like you to quote my responses fully in order not to
distort them.

It is hard to know how to respond to a list of false and/or distorted allegations, along with misleading
statements. I treat people I interact with with respect, and I work hard to support and mentor students,
colleagues, and members of the general public, and this is supported by the institutions of which Iam a part. I
do not sexually harass people. If the purpose of your reporting is to somehow argue that Universities and other
institutions are lax in dealing with well known individuals like myself, then in fact the situation is quite the
opposite. My high public profile opens me up to more scrutiny at these institutions, not less, and it also opens

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031434
