Exhibit 74: Japanese Net Purchases of Foreign
Long-Term Debt by Investor Type

Additional buying of foreign assets by Japanese investors
could put further downward pressure on the yen.

12-Month Rolling Sum, % of GDP

2
Capital Into Japan
I Ih = Yen Appreciation
0 1
I

x Banks Capital Out of |
@ Pension Trusts = Yen Depreciation
4 Insurers

mAIl Other*

2013 2014 2015 2016

Data through November 30, 2016.

Note: 03 2016 data used to calculate 04 2016 share of GDP.

Source: Investment Strategy Group, Haver Analytics.

* All Other defined as central banks, general government, financial instruments firms, investment
trust management companies and others.

Yen

For yen investors, last year was a reminder that
markets often take an escalator up but an elevator
down. After steadily appreciating almost 20%
against the US dollar over the first nine months

of 2016, the currency forfeited those gains in

just weeks after the surprising US presidential
election. Although the net effect was a small 2.8%
appreciation last year—breaking a four-year streak
of yen weakness—we do not believe further yen
strength is likely.

There are two reasons for this view. First, the
BOJ will likely keep rates negative or close to zero
this year by maintaining highly accommodative
monetary policy. In turn, Japanese investors will
continue to sell low-yielding domestic assets—
placing downward pressure on the yen—in order
to fund purchases of higher-yielding offshore assets
(see Exhibit 74}. Japan’s Government Pension
Investment Fund (GPIF)—which manages the
world’s largest public pension—is a case in point,
as it will need to sell domestic fixed income assets
to reach its stated targets for foreign investments.
Similarly, Japanese life insurers may increase
their exposure to foreign currencies if interest
rate differentials between the US and Japan
remain wide.

Second, Japanese corporations are likely
to sell yen to invest in foreign operations with

better growth prospects, which will also place
downward pressure on the Japanese currency; such
announcements are already on the rise.°

This is not to suggest that the prospects for the
yen are completely one-sided. The higher global
rates we expect may make it difficult for the BOJ
to maintain such low domestic yields, which would
alleviate some of the downward pressure on the
currency. Moreover, the many sources of global
uncertainty in the year ahead could lead investors
back into the yen as a liquid hedge, as we saw in
the first half of 2016. Finally, after four years of
weakness, the yen has reached undervalued levels.

Given this more balanced risk profile, we
currently have no tactical position in the yen.

British Pound

While broader financial markets were unperturbed
by the UK’s decision to leave the European Union,
the same cannot be said for currencies. Here,

the Brexit vote sent the pound tumbling to its
lowest level versus the US dollar since the 1985
Plaza Accord.! Although the pound has since
recovered some of those losses, its 16.3% decline
relative to the US dollar last year still ranks as the
worst performance among all developed market
currencies.

The trajectory of the pound will be largely
shaped by the evolution of Brexit negotiations.
Even though six months have passed since the
vote, there is no greater clarity on how the UK
will ultimately exit the European Union and on
what terms. Clearly a combative stance could see
the pound weaken further as the market discounts
lower potential growth in the UK. Alternatively, a
more conciliatory negotiating position could lead
to upside from today’s depressed levels.

Barring a hostile negotiating tack from the
UK government, the pound also has several other
factors working in its favor. First, foreigners
continue to buy pounds to invest in UK-domiciled
assets and firms, which is vital to funding the UK’s
sizable 5.2% of GDP current account deficit. In
fact, one of the largest cross-border acquisitions
last year was announced less than one month
following the EU referendum.!” Importantly,
higher-frequency data shows this merger and
acquisition (M&A) momentum is continuing (see
Exhibit 75).

Second, the Bank of England may need to raise
interest rates sooner than markets now expect, as
erstwhile sterling depreciation is quickly feeding

Outlook | Investment Strategy Group 63

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014596
