14.

15.

Trump might have relevant information to provide in the cases against Jeffrey Epstein
and accordingly provided notice of a possible deposition.

Epstein alleges that there was something improper in the fact that I notified him that I
intended to take Alan Dershowitz’s deposition in the civil suits against him. Dershowitz
was properly noticed because: (a) Dershowitz has been friends with Epstein for many
years; (b) in one news article Dershowitz comments that, “I’m on my 20th book... The
only person outside of my immediate family that I send drafts to is Jeffrey” The
Talented Mr. Epstein, By Vicky Ward on January, 2005 in Published Work, Vanity
Fair; (c) Epstein’s housekeeper Alfredo Rodriguez testified that Dershowitz stayed at
Epstein’s house during the years most relevant to my clients; (d) Rodriguez testified
that Dershowitz was at Epstein’s house at times when underage females where there
being molested by Epstein (see Alfredo Rodriguez deposition at 278-280, 385, 426-
427); (e) Dershowitz was reportedly involved in persuading the Palm Beach State
Attorney’s office not to file felony criminal charges against Epstein because the
underage females lacked credibility and thus could not be believed that they were at
Epstein’s house, despite him being an eyewitness that the underage girls were actually
there; (f) Jane Doe No. 102 stated generally that Epstein forced her to be sexually
exploited by not only Epstein but-also Epstein’s “adult male peers, including royalty,
politicians, academicians, businessmen, and/or other professional and personal
acquaintances” — categories that Dershowitz and acquaintances of Dershowitz fall into;
(g) during the years 2002-2005 Alan Dershowitz was on Epstein’s plane on several
occasions according to the flight logs produced by Epstein’s pilot and information
(described above) suggested that sexual assaults may have taken place on the plane; (h)
Epstein donated Harvard $30 Million dollars one year, and Harvard was one of the only
institutions that did not return Epstein’s donation after he was charged with sex offenses
against children. Based on this information, I believed that Dershowitz might have
relevant information to provide in the cases against Jeffrey Epstein and accordingly
provided notice of a possible deposition.

Epstein alleges that there was something improper in the fact that I notified him that I
intended to take Bill Clinton’s deposition. Clinton was properly noticed because: (a) it
was well known that Clinton was friends with Ghislaine Maxwell, and several witnesses
had provided information that Maxwell helped to run Epstein’s companies, kept images
of naked underage children on her computer, helped to recruit underage children for
Epstein, engaged in lesbian sex with underage females that she procured for Epstein,
and photographed underage females in sexually explicit poses and kept child
pornography on her computer; (b) newpaper articles stated that Clinton had an affair
with Ghislaine Maxwell, who was thought to be second in charge of Epstein’s child
molestation ring. The Cleveland Leader newspaper, April 10, 2009; (c) it was national
news when Clinton traveied with Epstein (and Maxwell) aboard Epstein’s private plane
to Africa and the news articles classified Clinton as Epstein’s friend; (d) the flight logs
for the relevant years 2002 - 2005 showed Clinton traveling on Epstein’s plane on more
than 10 occasions and his assistant, Doug Band, traveled on many more occasions; (e)
Jane Doe No. 102 stated generally that she was required by Epstein to be sexually —

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013471
