158

Public figures from the second or third generation of immigrants are emerging
slowly. The traditionally anticommunist sentiment in Paris’s thirteenth district,
populated by former refugees, has all but disappeared. The district’s Socialist Party
MP, a former advocate of Taiwan, switched his sympathies to the PRC before leaving
politics in 2017. While France has always seen itself as a melting pot society—where
even native languages dissolved over a generation—the economic attraction of China
is clearly felt.

Police and judicial cooperation have also become an issue. In 2017, for the first time, a
PRC citizen accused of corruption was extradited back to China; no public assurances
were given regarding a possible death penalty. Another case erupted when Chinese
public security officials made an unannounced visit to France to pressure a resident to
return home and face charges.

Politics

For decades, China’s National Day reception has been the most sought-after
diplomatic reception in France, with queues often backing into the street. China’s
diplomatic buildings have in fact sprouted up around Paris, sometimes acquired
from French government sites on sale. China has cultivated a stable of former French
politicians. Of particular interest to China is former prime minister Dominique

de Villepin, who is a frequent visitor to the country. He has regularly made

positive remarks to Chinese state media and at other fora regarding the Belt and
Road Initiative (BRI) and Chinese cooperation with the EU. In 2018, he became

a distinguished professor at China Europe International Business School and now
heads its advisory board.

Civil Society

A new generation of NGOs linking French and PRC members and sponsors has
emerged, complementing the traditional role of business. Most prominent is the
France-China Foundation, guided by an active French diplomat and presided over by
current prime minister Edouard Philippe. With prominent PRC businessmen (such

as Jack Ma) as cosponsors and old or new members of the French establishment (e.g.,
former prime minister Laurent Fabius and Cedric Villani, prominent mathematician
and an MP since 2017), the foundation hosts social events, including at the Chateau
de Versailles. Its strongest activity is a Young Leaders program that is patterned after
the traditional Fondation France-Amérique. Other organizations include the Fondation
Prospective et Innovation, headed by Jean-Pierre Raffarin, which awards a Wu Jianmin
scholarship named after a former Chinese ambassador to France.

Appendix 2

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020617
