ERSON

sood enough. So I filled it out
* So I’m pretty sure he wasn't
telling me that he was. But I
h the reason I stayed there so
ght in front of me, you know?

[redacted], was there anybody
ouse? .
-ause it got out that | did this.

7, You know, everyone talks—

Not that I would want anybody
girls I didn’t like and, frankly,
5 that 1 knew were skanks. That
at would just, like, suck dick in
2, not even people I was friends
about a girl and be like, “Hey, |
ke two hundred dollars. How
lat out, like, “This is what you've
| this? Cause I’m not gonna take
them. They all know that I got
actually [redacted]. She took off
rerweight, so he didn't want any-
ie was my best friend. But, you
ry. I did care about her. But, um,
ff and really needed money. She
ie had nowhere to go. So she did it

48

=~ ee oO

Firtuy Ric

Sometimes he got violent, yeah.
Violent as in what? As in—

: He pulled my hair a lot harder than it should have been

pulled. Like, he—okay, I can understand having sex, and
youre all, like, not—not that we were having sex, but I
mean, like, if you're all into it and you pull hair a little bit,
like, my ponytails—just like a little bit, whatever. But he
would pull it to where it would rip my hair out. It would rip
my hair, and then sometimes he would pick me up and, like,
throw me whichever way he wanted me, and then he would
just like use a toy or, like, his hand or whatever. Never his
penis, though, ever. I never had sex with him. But un—I’m
little, so he could pick me up. Like, if you pick me up and
throw, obviously it’s gonna hurt....

I mean, there’s been nights that I walked out of there barely
able to walk, um, from him being so rough. But nothing
really—nothing specific that he really got violent with. Like,
I can’t really recall.

Nothing that I went to the doctor for, no. I mean, I remember
getting tore up a few times, but it was nothing that—

: This is getting real personal, but were you active before him?

What, like, had I had sex? Yeah [laughs].

Okay.

Um. But honest, I mean, I’m not—I’m nota ho. I've had only
three steady boyfriends, and those are the only three that I’ve
ever done anything with. And they were all with me for over
a year. So it’s not like I just go and hook up at parties.

49

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019165
