Fiscal Policy - The government’s tax and
spending policies, which influence the
amount and maturity of government debt as
well as the level, composition, and
distribution of national output and income.
See debt.

Fiscal Year - A yearly accounting period.
The federal government's fiscal year begins
October 1 and ends September 30. Fiscal
years are designated by the calendar years
in which they end—for example, fiscal year
2011 will begin on October 1, 2010, and end
on September 30, 2011.

GDP price index - A summary measure of
the prices of all goods and services that
make up gross domestic product. The
change in the GDP price index is used as a
measure of inflation in the overall economy.

General Fund - One category of federal
funds in the government’s accounting
structure. The general fund records all
revenues and offsetting receipts not
earmarked by law for a specific purpose and
all spending financed by those revenues and
receipts.

Government-Sponsored Enterprise (GSE)
- A financial institution created by federal
law, generally though a federal charter, to
carry out activities such as increasing credit
availability for borrowers, reducing borrowing
costs, or enhancing liquidity in particular
sectors of the economy, notably agriculture
and housing. Two housing GSEs (Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac) were taken into
federal conservatorship in 2008.

Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) - A
managed care plan that combines the
function of insurer and provider to give
members comprehensive health care from a
network of affiliated providers. Enrollees
typically pay limited copayments and are

_)
Ise) www.kpcb.com

usually required to select a primary care
physician through whom all care must be
coordinated. HMOs generally will not
reimburse all costs for services obtained
from a non-network provider or without a
primary care physician's referral. HMOs
often emphasize prevention and careful
assessment of medical necessity.

Independent Payment Advisory Board
(IPAB) - A 15-member Independent
Payment Advisory Board created under
PPACA with significant authority with
respect to Medicare payment rates.
Beginning in 2014, in any year in which the
Medicare per capita growth rate exceeded a
target growth rate, the IPAB would be
required to recommend Medicare spending
reductions. The recommendations would
become law unless Congress passed an
alternative proposal that achieved the same
level of budgetary savings. Subject to some
limitations—hospitals, for example, would be
exempt until 2020—the IPAB could
recommend spending reductions affecting
Medicare providers and suppliers, as well as
Medicare Advantage and Prescription Drug
Plans.

Labor Force - The number of people age 16
or older in the civilian non-institutional
population who have jobs or who are
available for work and are actively seeking
jobs. (The civilian non-institutional
population excludes members of the armed
forces on active duty and people in penal or
mental institutions or in homes for the elderly
or infirm.) The labor force participation rate
is the labor force as a percentage of the
civilian non-institutional population age 16 or
older.

Marginal Tax Rate - The tax rate that would
apply to an additional dollar of a taxpayer's
income. Compare with effective tax rate and
statutory tax rate.

USA Inc. xxii

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021079
