on all your houses—and keep us out of it); Flynn’s anti-Iranism (of all the world’s perfidy
and toxicity, there is none like that of the mullahs); and Kushner’s Kissingerism (not so
much Kissingerism as, having no point of view himself, a dutiful attempt to follow the
ninety-four-year-old’s advice).

But the fundamental point was that the last three administrations had gotten the Middle
East wrong. It was impossible to overstate how much contempt the Trump people felt for
the business-as-usual thinking that had gotten it so wrong. Hence, the new operating
principle was simple: do the opposite of what they (Obama, but the Bush neocons, too)
would do. Their behavior, their conceits, their ideas—in some sense even their
backgrounds, education, and class—were all suspect. And, what’s more, you don’t really
have to know all that much yourself; you just do it differently than it was done before.

The old foreign policy was based on the idea of nuance: facing an infinitely complex
multilateral algebra of threats, interests, incentives, deals, and ever evolving relationships,
we strain to reach a balanced future. In practice, the new foreign policy, an effective
Trump doctrine, was to reduce the board to three elements: powers we can work with,
powers we cannot work with, and those without enough power whom we can functionally
disregard or sacrifice. It was cold war stuff. And, indeed, in the larger Trump view, it was
during the cold war that time and circumstance gave the United States its greatest global
advantage. That was when America was great.

OOK Ok

Kushner was the driver of the Trump doctrine. His test cases were China, Mexico, Canada,
and Saudi Arabia. He offered each country the opportunity to make his father-in-law

happy.

In the first days of the administration, Mexico blew its chance. In transcripts of
conversations between Trump and Mexican president Enrique Pefia Nieto that would later
become public, it was vividly clear that Mexico did not understand or was unwilling to
play the new game. The Mexican president refused to construct a pretense for paying for
the wall, a pretense that might have redounded to his vast advantage (without his having to
actually pay for the wall).

Not long after, Canada’s new prime minister, Justin Trudeau, a forty-five-year-old
globalist in the style of Clinton and Blair, came to Washington and repeatedly smiled and
bit his tongue. And that did the trick: Canada quickly became Trump’s new best friend.

The Chinese, who Trump had oft maligned during the campaign, came to Mar-a-Lago
for a summit advanced by Kushner and Kissinger. (This required some tutoring for Trump,
who referred to the Chinese leader as “Mr. X-i’”; the president was told to think of him as a
woman and call him “she.”) They were in an agreeable mood, evidently willing to humor
Trump. And they quickly figured out that if you flatter him, he flatters you.

But it was the Saudis, also often maligned during the campaign, who, with their

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020055
