Real-Life Learning Projects Considered 59

they create a deliverable and either continue to work on improving
it after receiving feedback from the mentor or move on to the next
subtask in the story.

I will describe briefly the stories that the students work within
(they each last anywhere from 6 to 9 weeks). Then I want to consid-
er what these courses are really teaching from the perspective of the
framework of cognitive processes that I described in Chapter 4.

COURSE 1: “CASH CRISIS”—
ANALYZE AND SOLVE FINANCIAL BUSINESS PROBLEMS

The story for this course is that a family that owns a winery business
hires a consulting firm to help determine why the bank denied the re-
newal of a loan. The students, working in the role of assistant consul-
tants, first conduct financial analyses to determine problems within
the business. Next, they conduct a root cause analysis to determine
the underlying causes of the problems affecting the business. Students
then develop solutions to address the problems and write a report out-
lining the solutions, including 5-year financial projections.

COURSE 2: “GOING ONLINE”’—
TAKE A SMALL BUSINESS ONLINE

Students are contacted by an investor who is interested in starting an
online business selling gift baskets. She wants the students to help her
plan what the business will sell in the gift baskets and to design the
user interface for the website. She is leaving it up to the students to
determine what sort of gift basket business they want to design. Her
immediate concern is seeing what the site would look like, and how it
would function, to make sure she will have a good design to impress
prospective buyers.

Students begin by interviewing prospective customers and seeing
how they typically buy such items online, to learn from their usage
patterns and to determine common breakdowns in the usual process.
Next, students produce expected user scenarios for the “personas”
they identify as being prospective users of the site. They then define
functional and nonfunctional requirements for the site they must

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023805
