NAUTILUS EDUCATION | BETA PRODUCT

Matter and its interactions (HS-PS1-1) Use the peri-
odic table as a model to predict the relative properties
of elements based on the patterns of electrons in the
outermost energy level of atoms.

From molecules to organisms: structure and pro-
cesses (HS-LS1-6) Construct and revise an explana-
tion based on evidence for how carbon, hydrogen, and
oxygen from sugar molecules may combine with other
elements to form amino acids and/or other large
carbon-based molecules.

Ecosystems: Interactions, energy and dynamics (HS-
LS-3) Construct and revise an explanation based on
evidence for the cycling of matter and flow of energy
in aerobic and anaerobic conditions.

Teacher’s Notes: Frack ’er Up
VOCAB WORDS

Ethanol: also found in beer and wine, it is a kind of
biofuel that is sometimes added to gasoline for use
in automobiles. Ethanol can be made from corn,
potatoes, or green plants. Its chemical formula is
CH;CH20H.

Biofuel: a fuel made from plants or other organisms,
in recent time.

Biomass: material from recently living organisms.
Organic compound: a molecule containing carbon.

Hydrocarbon: Made of just hydrogen and carbon,
these are the simplest kind of organic compound.

Octane: a highly flammable hydrocarbon, and compo-
nent of gasoline. Its chemical formula is CsHis.

Catalyst: a component of a chemical reaction that
helps facilitate the reaction, but is not used up.

READING COMPREHENSION

1. “Plant biomass absorbs carbon dioxide as it grows.”
What is the name of the process by which plants do
this? Look up and write down the chemical reaction.

A polymer is a chain of molecules. Identify a kind
of polymer in the story, and the monomer that
composes it.

Plants need carbon dioxide for photosynthesis.
What are some of the sources for this carbon
dioxide?

DISCUSSION QUESTIONS

1.

Why is it advantageous for companies to be
green?

Would you pay more for gas—or any other prod-
uct, say a shirt—from a “green” company? What
if some of that company’s practices were just as

questionable as those of “dark” companies?

How would the world change if gasoline could
be made cheaply from natural gas? Should we
consider this technology to be progress given
that natural gas has it’s own environmental
consequences.

ACTIVITIES

1.

Have students construct a timeline of fuel. Ask
them to include dates mentioned from the story,
and to research and add other relevant informa-
tion: like the moment in history when organisms
die, the lite cycle of a tree that contributed the
author’s container of Primus fuel.

Draw a map or annotated illustration of all the plac-
es carbon goes in this article. Use outside research
to complete a full picture of the carbon cycle.

Write a 30-second ad convincing car drivers to
pay a premium for green gasoline like Primus’.
Include “fine print”— side effects, or caveats—as
you see necessary.

ADDITIONAL MULTIMEDIA

1.

14

Algae (The Guardian)

An interactive slide show that illustrates how
biofuels are made out of algae:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015474
