8.2 Cognitive Synergy 145

nn DECLARATIVE KNOWLEDGE

- —>=
Low ; on | do =
- Sf . redticg, a
g i Ve yy, Beintain INTENTIONAL
v & —_ Evaluation Dlicany Appropriate| 1 NTENTIONA
Predictive Implication — n Energy

Find
Entity

Near / Hebbian Link

my Enea ) Current Location) Wk
oe y,
Lost
Evaluation Link

( battery )

an

get My Energy

PROCEDURAL
KNOWLEDGE

EPISODIC/SENSORY
KNOWLEDGE

get Current Location batter

/

Fig. 8.1: Illustrative example of the interactions between multiple types of knowledge, in repre-
senting a simple piece of knowledge. Generally speaking, one type of knowledge can be converted
to another, at the cost of some loss of information. The synergy between cognitive processes
associated with corresponding pieces of knowledge, possessing different type, is a critical aspect
of general intelligence.

synthesis or analysis is just too great, and the algorithms are unable to filter through all the
possibilities, given the lack of intrinsic constraint that comes along with a “general intelligence”
context (as opposed to a narrow-AI problem like chess-playing, where the context is constrained
and hence restricts the scope of possible combinations that needs to be considered). In an AGI
architecture based on cognitive synergy, the different learning mechanisms must be designed
specifically to interact in such a way as to palliate each others’ combinatorial explosions - so
that, for instance, each learning mechanism dealing with a certain sort of knowledge, must
synergize with learning mechanisms dealing with the other sorts of knowledge, in a way that
decreases the severity of combinatorial explosion.

One prerequisite for cognitive synergy to work is that each learning mechanism must. rec-
ognize when it is “stuck,” meaning it’s in a situation where it has inadequate information to
make a confident judgment about what steps to take next. Then, when it does recognize that
it’s stuck, it may request help from other, complementary cognitive mechanisms.

A theoretical notion closely related to cognitive synergy is the cognitive schematic, formalized
in Chapter 7 above, which states that the activity of the different cognitive processes involved
in an intelligent system may be modeled in terms of the schematic implication

Context \ Procedure — Goal

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013061
