share moments ideas etc.. Iam of course always available to guide you as a friend if you choose that route .
always . It will take a great deal of your time , but you will not have to spend any more money on mine .
We are scheduled to meet fri at 430 , I leave at 5 am sat morning.

Date: Mon, Apr 21, 2014 at 11:39 AM

Subject: trying to bridge the gap.

To: Melanie Spinella

you were at 30 30/ meat 6040. ./ proposal 50/25 and in additon I would be allowed to recommend 15
from directly from your own foundation. All payments to be made in addtion to currently owed. so $40 on
april 25 , $30 june 15 ,and the alreadly owed $10 as planned on oct 15. I would direct the 15 charity in the
next 12 months, and the last 25 to be paid on conclusion.

leon

10 am - Arrival at White Plains / Westchester Airport

FBO and US customs is Jet Systems Aviation

Adress: 85 Tower Road Hanger E, White Plains, NY, 10604

Telephone

Date: Wed, Mar 25, 2015 at 11:52 PM
Subject: previously sent
To: Melanie Spincll: i i iii
I heard you when you said you believed i had already been paid for the work that is now required. The art
partnership has fully answered all your concerns and discharged all my obligations and more so. . (
FYI Carlyns art partnership that you referenced is similar in only its title. ) You will also recall that you
required that my payments be at the end of my work not at the beginning as everyone else's .( my work was
never to include hours upon hours of training your staff). I eventually agreed, this of course should
make clear that the 2014 tax year that will close Oct 2015 is not covered by our past agreement at all. I
pointed this very fact out to you when I initially proposed a multi year agreement right out of the box. you said
you preferred not. As you said ,I have produced results to date, far in excess of even my own exalted opinion
of my projections. I have devoted a monumental amount of my limited amount of time-- way, way in excess of
our agreement. I will be fair, I am willing to roll in the amount still outstanding from last year if that helps ..
However, As my best student , and my only one, you are now capable of doing most, if not all, of the
required work yourself. I can put my whiteboard away when you come to eat and just have fun, trade stories,
share moments ideas etc.. Iam of course always available to guide you as a friend if you choose that route .
always . It will take a great deal of your time , but you will not have to spend any more money on mine

We are scheduled to meet fri at 430 , I leave at 5 am sat morning.So there are no surprises 50m for the
year. . or 30m for until 7/15. you can roll the balance for last year as a concession. half up front. no more all
at the end. ive spoken to brad every day. more questions than answers. joslyn cannot be left unsupervised. his
answers are knee jerk . eillenn told me this , that the other

Date: Thu, Mar 26, 2015 at 12:07 AM
Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella Po

you need to build an entire office from scratch. no question that was never my obigation, - systems , personel.
finance tax, bookeeping, ,office. complinace. investment. monitoring, banking loans coming due , review. gs
jpm gs, .. plane boat houses construction , new will,. phaidon sale. you are no further ahead today than my

nov memo layed out = no real candidates. etc .. Ill redo the art partnership under new restrictions of course at

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023347
