JAMES PATTERSON

11:35 a.m.

Q: Who are the people that Rebecca says Virginia had previ-
ously told her that Virginia was abused by?

A: never asked her that question.

Q: Did you ask her was Les Wexner one of the people that
abused Virginia?

A: I told you I never asked her the question.

Q: Are you aware that years before December of 2014, when the
CVRA pleading was filed, that your name had come up
repeatedly in connection with Jeffrey Epstein’s abuse of minors,
correct?

A: lam aware that never before 2014, end of December, was it
ever, ever alleged that I had acted in any way inappropriately
with regard to Virginia Roberts, that I ever touched her, that
1 ever met her, that I had ever been with her. I was completely
aware of that. There had never been any allegation. She
claims under oath that she told you that secretly in 2011, but
you have produced no notes of any such conversation. You,

of course, are a witness to this allegation and will be deposed

as a witness to this allegation. | believe it is an entirely false 7
allegation that she told you in 2011 that she had had any sex- 4
ual contact with me. I think she’s lying through her teeth q
when she says that. And I doubt that your notes will reveal 4
any such information. But if she did tell you that, she would ~
be absolutely, categorically lying. So I am completely aware
that never—until the lies were put in a legal pleading at the |

end of December 2014, it was never alleged that I had any

1a
264 4

sexual contact with Vi
alleged that I was a witn
and that was false. I w;
Epstein’s sexual abuse.
that you have falsely dei
record is clear that I ha
witness to any abuse, th
anybody. And—and th
talk to Jeffrey Epstein w
Virginia Roberts, which
geous, SO preposterous,
lawyer associated with t
erts] said he couldn't belli

12:24 p.m.

Q: You engaged in a mass:

world that Bradley Edwai
unethical lawyers who h
you, correct?

: No, that’s not correct. I r¢

ing the truth. My goal w
ginia Roberts's allegation
These two stories appeare
newspaper in the world ai
of their plot and the plan
absurdly mentioned Prin
absurd way—that they
ing to lobby prosecutors t

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022161
