strongly for their pain or confinement
and future. In part, this kind of empathic
extension may be motivated by the kind
of anthropomorphic attitudes we have
about non-human entities as discussed
by Nick Epley in his chapter. The fact
that we are adept at “feeling for” very
different others whom we can observe
but not truly understand suggests that we
possess a capacity to cognitively re-
represent others in our mind in a way we
can understand. Indeed, second-order
representation is a key component of
empathy in humans, and may be a useful
adaptation for human survival because it
maximizes the range of individuals with
whom we can form a social bond.

The Components of Empathy

The psychological components
that make up full-blown empathy are
supported by distinct and separable
psychobiological systems. Empathy can
be decomposed into an affective
component that includes the perception
and sharing of an emotional state
observed in another individual, and a
cognitive component that includes the
motivation and intention to respond.
Closely related is a regulatory
component that involves adjustment of
one’s emotional and behavioral
response. The affective, cognitive, and
regulatory aspects of empathy involve
interacting, yet partially non-overlapping
neural circuits. The initial component in
the overall process leading to empathy
draws on somatic mimicry, also known
as “emotion contagion.” This affective
component of empathy develops earlier
than the cognitive component. Affective
responsiveness is present at an early age,
is involuntary, and relies on mimicry and
linking of actions perceived in others
with actions in oneself (i.e., perception-
action coupling). For instance,
newborns and infants become vigorously

Page |87

distressed shortly after another infant
begins to cry. Facial mimicry of basic
emotional expressions also contributes to
affective sharing, and this phenomenon
starts very early in life, by
approximately 10 weeks of age. This
primitive mimicry mechanism, which
may be based on mirror neurons, which
are sensorimotor neurons found in the
premotor, motor, and posterior parietal
cortex of the brain that become active
when observing as well as when
enacting a behavior as discussed in
Steven Small’s chapter. This kind of
mechanism may contribute to the
development of empathy in the early
preverbal period, and continues to
operate past childhood. There is
evidence that when we perceive
emotions and actions of others, we use
the same neural circuits as when we
produce the same emotions and actions
ourselves (e.g., watching another
individual being disgusted and
experiencing disgust in oneself activate
similar neural circuits). For instance,
viewing facial expressions triggers
expressions on one’s own face, even
without explicit identification of what
we're seeing (4).

The cognitive component of
empathy is closely related to processes
involved in “theory of mind” (i.e., the
ability to attribute mental states to others
and to understand that others’ mental
states can differ from one’s own) and
self-regulation. The capacity for two
people to resonate with each other
emotionally, prior to any cognitive
understanding, is the basis for
developing shared emotional meanings,
but it is not enough for mature empathic
understanding and concern. Such an
understanding requires the observer to
form an explicit representation of the
feelings of another person, a process that

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021333
