Jan Loeys Global Asset Allocation
(1-212) 834-5874 The J.P. Morgan View J.P. Morgan

jan.loeys@jpmorgan.com 09 November 2012

contracts and stock options listed on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited. An updated list can be found on HKEx website: http:/(www-hkex.com.hk.
Japan: There is a risk that a loss may occur due to a change in the price of the shares in the case of share trading, and that a loss may occur due to the
exchange rate in the case of foreign share trading. In the case of share trading, JPMorgan Securities Japan Co., Ltd., will be receiving a brokerage fee and
consumption tax (shouhizei) calculated by multiplying the executed price by the commission rate which was individually agreed between JPMorgan
Securities Japan Co., Ltd., and the customer in advance. Financial Instruments Firms: JPMorgan Securities Japan Co., Ltd., Kanto Local Finance Bureau
(xinsho) No. 82 Participating Association / Japan Securities Dealers Association, The Financial Futures Association of Japan, Type II Financial
Instruments Firms Association and Japan Investment Advisers Association. Korea: This report may have been edited or contributed to from time to time
by affiliates of J.P. Morgan Securities (Far East) Ltd, Seoul Branch. Singapore: JPMSS and/or its affiliates may have a holding in any of the securities
discussed in this report; for securities where the holding is 1% or greater, the specific holding is disclosed in the Important Disclosures section above.
India: For private circulation only, not for sale. Pakistan: For private circulation only, not for sale. New Zealand: This material is issued and distributed
by JPMSAL in New Zealand only to persons whose principal business is the investment of money or who, in the course of and for the purposes of their
business, habitually invest money. JPMSAL does not issue or distribute this material to members of the public” as determined in accordance with section
3 of the Securities Act 1978. The recipient of this material must not distribute it to any third party or outside New Zealand without the prior written consent
of JPMSAL. Canada: The information contained herein is not, and under no circumstances is to be construed as, a prospectus, an advertisement, a public
offering, an offer to sell securities described herein, or solicitation of an offer to buy securities described herein, in Canada or any province or territory
thereof. Any offer or sale of the securities described herein in Canada will be made only under an exemption from the requirements to file a prospectus
with the relevant Canadian securities regulators and only by a dealer properly registered under applicable securities laws or, alternatively, pursuant to an
exemption from the dealer registration requirement in the relevant province or territory of Canada in which such offer or sale is made. The information
contained herein is under no circumstances to be construed as investment advice in any province or territory of Canada and is not tailored to the needs of
the recipient. To the extent that the information contained herein references securities of an issuer incorporated, formed or created under the laws of
Canada or a province or territory of Canada, any trades in such securities must be conducted through a dealer registered in Canada. No securities
commission or similar regulatory authority in Canada has reviewed or in any way passed judgment upon these materials, the information contained herein
or the merits of the securities described herein, and any representation to the contrary is an offence. Dubai: This report has been issued to persons regarded
as professional clients as defined under the DFSA rules.

General: Additional information is available upon request. Information has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable but JPMorgan Chase & Co.
or its affiliates and/or subsidiaries (collectively J.P. Morgan) do not warrant its completeness or accuracy except with respect to any disclosures relative to
JPMS and/or its affiliates and the analyst's involvement with the issuer that is the subject of the research. All pricing is as of the close of market for the
securities discussed, unless otherwise stated. Opinions and estimates constitute our judgment as of the date of this material and are subject to change
without notice. Past performance is not indicative of future results. This material is not intended as an offer or solicitation for the purchase or sale of any
financial instrument. The opinions and recommendations herein do not take into account individual client circumstances, objectives, or needs and are not
intended as recommendations of particular securities, financial instruments or strategies to particular clients. The recipient of this report must make its own
independent decisions regarding any securities or financial instruments mentioned herein. JPMS distributes in the U.S. research published by non-U.S.
affiliates and accepts responsibility for its contents. Periodic updates may be provided on companies/industries based on company specific developments or
announcements, market conditions or any other publicly available information. Clients should contact analysts and execute transactions through a J.P.
Morgan subsidiary or affiliate in their home jurisdiction unless governing law permits otherwise.

Other Disclosures last revised September 29, 2012.

Copyright 2012 JPMorgan Chase & Co. All rights reserved. This report or any portion hereof may not be reprinted, sold or
redistributed without the written consent of J.P. Morgan.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026579
