the Baby Boomers. Had they been the most destructive, selfish generation in
American history? A reaction against the selflessness of their parents? Retired to
leave the rest of us to pay their future medical bills and oggle their underfunded
pensions, to cope with the manipulated political system they’d sued into existence.
Or had they left a legacy of tolerance, an echo of 1968's optimisitic energy, a firming
of American confidence. But, anyhow, Generation X? By comparison irrelevant: A
collection of sad, passive slackers.

But the great Internet companies were largely built by Generation X. The
foundational experience of 1989 - the fall of the Berlin Wall - bred optimism. It
created, in fact, the possibility for a new exploration. When we were told “Be
generous in what you accept,” this seemed reasonable and, eventually, lucrative. The
logic and power of networks became apparent by itself, the moment we began
connecting the world. So linkage in trade and finance and friendship was pressed
out into a new era of globalization, pushed as much by the smashing, enthusiastic
removal of so many historical limits as it was by the technology itself. Yes WiFi and
TCP/IP and other advances made wiring the world possible, but I wonder if they
would have developed so quickly if the context for using them hadn't provided a
feedback loop of such quick profit and reward and, frankly, amazement. So, in this
fashion, we laid the groundwork for a world of billion-plus user platforms. For a
new concept of power.

But the Snowden papers were a shock. We knew him, in a sense. His mannerisms
and thinking and technical instincts harmonized with our own. It was as if the NSA
had enrolled most of the digitally visible world into a twisted panopticon of a social
network, one where your “membership” began the moment one of your data
packets was sniffed or chased along fiber optic lines. Here was a secret three billion-
user platform, in a sense, that had enmeshed, without their knowledge or
permission, a tremendous chunk of humanity. People of interest. The one or two or
three billion people swept into systems like the NSA’s Aurora fell victim to the
powerful leverage of scaled systems: The more people monitored by the NSA, the
more leads to follow, which meant still more people needed to be followed and
knitted unwittingly into the web.

No one in my generation who had been around tech for long was naive. We knew
that like soldiers coming back from a war there were things done on the network -
the spreading of danger, of inequality, of pollution - that would have to be paid for
in balance by the benefits the system promised to bring. The immensity of what had
been built already in networks was clear enough; the even greater power yet to
come as trillions of more connections piled together was implicit, obvious even. The
perverse, sneaky side of this growth was known to anyone who'd spent time
working a connected machine. But that people of our generation could on the one
hand listen to “Karma Police” and on the other enact the sick OK Computer logic of
surveillance, even name a British GCHQ monitoring program after the Radiohead
song? The aim: Provide either (a) a web browsing profile for every visible user on

124

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018356
