From: jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com>
Sent: Friday, July 13, 2018 7:11 AM

To: Paul Barrett i Richard Kahn aS
Subject:

Im not angry, sorry, itissad. itis apparent that you have no experience trading. we both madeamistake. . the
spy trades were the results of arank amatuer... youtook a postion on the direction of the market. ok. you
decided to play it extra short time and short. . why? becaue the options are cheaper. ? knowing full well that time
premium was running. . first silly move. . | allowed as promised to give you authority. . you seta target. . it hit the
traget , you moved in back. based on media reporting on trump visit? you didnt act. the market dipped and you
panicked. . AMATEUR. wrong options wrong timing , no discipline and as a percentaage of investment. a one day dip
fof 25%. wanting to buy the highter strike , is ok. but why the same month? why the same moment. why the same
index. . sorry. | have taught this for many years. and your gradeisanF. not one goodmoveinmany. . re
broadcom. the crack happend in the morning. options were higher. no alternative presented. no analysis. , this is
no way to manage money. _ | have lost a great deal of money hoping you would be able to do as you promised you
could. would.. Had youtold me, jeffrey | d like to try a new job as a manager lets start slow! canlearn. i would
be less annoyed. you told me you had great confidence knew the risks and truly believed you would be able to raise
money .do well and prosper. . If it were not you, this would have ended months ago.. we should work ona
solution . not sure yet what shape it takes.

please note
The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of
JEE
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited
and may be unlawful. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and
destroy this communication and all copies thereof,
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031805
