mouthing “Thank you,” crimson tie dipping over his belt.

This would be Trump’s fifth CPAC address. As much as Steve Bannon liked to see
himself as the author of Donald Trump, he also seemed to find it proof of some added
legitimacy—and somehow amazing in itself—that since 2011 Trump had basically come
to CPAC with the same message. He wasn’t a cipher, he was a messenger. The country
was a “mess”—a word that had stood the Trump test of time. Its leaders were weak. Its
greatness had been lost. The only thing different was that in 2011 he was still reading his
speeches with only occasional ad-libs, and now he ad-libbed everything.

“My first major speech was at CPAC,” the president began. “Probably five or six years
ago. My first major political speech. You were there. I loved it. I loved the people. I loved
the commotion. They did these polls where I went through the roof. I wasn’t even running,
right? But it gave me an idea! And I got a little bit concerned when I saw what was
happening in the country so I said let’s go to it. It was very exciting. I walked the stage at
CPAC-. I had very little notes and even less preparation.” (In fact, he read his 2011 speech
from a sheet of paper.) “So when you have practically no notes and no preparation and
then you leave and everybody was thrilled. I said, I think I like this business.”

This first preamble gave way to the next preamble.

“T want you all to know that we are fighting the fake news. It’s phony. Fake. A few
days ago I called the fake news the enemy of the people. Because they have no sources.
They just make ’em up when there are none. I saw one story recently where they said nine
people have confirmed. There are no nine people. I don’t believe there was one or two
people. Nine people. And I said, Give me a break. I know the people. I know who they
talk to. There were no nine people. But they say nine people... .”

A few minutes into the forty-eight-minute speech and it was already off the rails, riff
sustained by repetition.

“Maybe they’re just bad at polling. Or maybe they’re not legit. It’s one or the other.
They’re very smart. They’re very cunning. And they’re very dishonest... . Just to
conclude”—although he would go on for thirty-seven minutes more—“‘it’s a very sensitive
topic and they get upset when we expose their false stories. They say we can’t criticize
their dishonest coverage because of the First Amendment. You know they always bring
up’—he went into a falsetto voice—‘“the First Amendment. Now I love the First
Amendment. Nobody loves it better than me. Nobody.”

Each member of the Trump traveling retinue was now maintaining a careful poker face.
When they did break it, it was as though on a delay, given permission by the crowd’s
cheering or laughter. Otherwise, they seemed not to know whether the president had in
fact gotten away with his peculiar rambles.

“By the way, you folks in here, the place is packed, there are lines that go back six
blocks”—there were no lines outside the crowded lobby—‘I tell you that because you

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019986
