campaign with “official documents and information that would
incriminate Hillary Clinton, the presumed Democratic candidate for
President.

According to the indictment, by June 7, 2017, news outlets were
reporting that the Deputy Director of the FBI, Andrew McCabe, could
corroborate James Comey's allegation that the President had asked for
Comey's loyalty before firing him. As part of the cover-up, the
indictment alleges, on July 26, 2017, the President called upon the
Attorney General to fire McCabe.

On December 21, 2017, McCabe testified before the House
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence that the President had in
fact asked Comey for his loyalty before firing him. Six days later, in
retaliation, the President tweeted that McCabe was racing the clock to
retire with full benefits, and implying by use of a question mark, that it
was uncertain whether McCabe had 90 days to go?!!!

On March 16, 2018, McCabe was dismissed, depriving him of his
pension. According to the indictment, the President directed McCabe to
be fired with the intent to threaten and retaliate against him, the FBI,
and the Office of the Special Counsel, or to impede their respective
abilities to assist or carry out the work of the FBI, DOJ, the Office of the
Special Counsel, the Congressional Intelligence Committees, and the
grand jury.

Together with its narrative of Presidential behavior with, it
contends, the certain intention of subverting ongoing investigations, the
Mueller office is also ready to argue its right and obligation to charge a
sitting president with a criminal violation.

It is the outline of this argument that White House sources say
both prompted Rudy Giuliani to scoff at the idea of indictment and,
several weeks later, for the President and his lawyer to make sweeping
claims about Presidential authority.

It is acoming battle of absolutist positions.

The Special Counsel, according to reports from both the
investigation and from the White House, has spelled out an argument—
one that appears to be at odds with Department of Justice standing
policy that precludes charging a sitting president with a crime—that
nothing in the Constitution or in an statute suggests a status with regard
to criminal prosecution for the President different from any other
federal office. Nor is there any statute or case law that finds that
impeachment has to come before an indictment. The Mueller team

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029169
