you if you sign the agreement and not to waste time. But it appears that the revolutionaries are not ready to
respond to this step, he said.

Al Meahlafi said he visited Brussels for two-days of talks with the Belgian Foreign Minister Didier Reynders,
European Commission officials and Members of the European Parliament to explain the situation in Yemen
and seek support for the Yemeni government's peace efforts.

He said the Yemeni government seeks peace based on the three references, the Gulf initiative, the outputs of
the national dialogue, and the Security Council resolutions on Yemen, including resolution 2216.

The Yemeni foreign minister called on the EU to condemn the revolution and the Iranian interference in
Yemen, which is sending arms to the Houthi militias.

He also expressed his thanks to the EU for their humanitarian aid and for pledging the amount of 116 million
euro (USD 127 mn) during the UN-sponsored donors conference on Yemen held recently in Geneva. (end)
nk.mb

Sent from my iPhone

On May 14, 2017, at 11:25 PM, jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote:

iwill ask , get back to you tomorw

On Sun, May 14, 2017 at 10:23 PM, (i wrote:

how about the war in yemen?
Sent from my iPhone

On May 14, 2017, at 10:25 PM, jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote:

it depends on which subject. . economic. military, tech?

On Sun, May 14, 2017 at 9:17 PM, {i > wrote:

any tips on how we should communicate with him?
Sent from my iPhone

On May 14, 2017, at 9:35 PM, jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote:

much to do around the trump trip. I hope you are enjoying.

please note
The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of
JEE
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited
and may be unlawful. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and
destroy this communication and all copies thereof,
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026087
