Participants in The Deep Thinking Project

Chris Anderson is an entrepreneur; a roboticist; former editor-in-chief of Wired; co-
founder and CEO of 3DR; and author of Zhe Long Tail, Free, and Makers.

Rodney Brooks is a computer scientist; Panasonic Professor of Robotics, emeritus, MIT;
former director, MIT Computer Science Lab; and founder, chairman, and CTO of
Rethink Robotics. He is the author of //esh and Machines.

George M. Church is Robert Winthrop Professor of Genetics at Harvard Medical
School; Professor of Health Sciences and Technology, Harvard-MIT; and co-author (with
Ed Regis) of Regenesis: How Synthetic Biology Will Reinvent Nature and Ourselves.

Daniel C. Dennett is University Professor and Austin B. Fletcher Professor of
Philosophy and director of the Center for Cognitive Studies at Tufts University. He is the
author of a dozen books, including Consciousness Explained and, most recently, From
Bacteria to Bach and Back: The Evolution of Minds.

David Deutsch is a quantum physicist and a member of the Centre for Quantum
Computation at the Clarendon Laboratory, Oxford University. He is the author of Zhe
Fabric of Reality and The Beginning of Infinity.

Anca Dragan is an assistant professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Sciences at UC Berkeley. She co-founded and serves on the steering
committee for the Berkeley AI Research (BAIR) Lab and is a co-principal investigator in
Berkeley’s Center for Human-Compatible AI.

George Dyson is a historian of science and technology and the author of Baidarka: the
Kayak, Darwin Among the Machines, Project Orion, and Turing ’s Cathedral.

Peter Galison is a science historian, Joseph Pellegrino University Professor and co-
founder of

the Black Hole Initiative at Harvard University, and the author of Einstein's Clocks and
Poincaré ’s Maps: Empires of Time.

Neil Gershenfeld is a physicist and director of MIT’s Center for Bits and Atoms. He is
the author of AB, co-author (with Alan Gershenfeld & Joel Cutcher-Gershenfeld) of
Designing Reality, and founder of the global fab lab network.

Alison Gopnik is a developmental psychologist at UC Berkeley; her books include The
Philosophical Baby and, most recently, Zhe Gardener and the Carpenter: What the New
Science of Child Development Tells Us About the Relationship Between Parents and
Children.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016222
