senate profile

Chairman Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) Ranking Member Maria Cantwell (D-WA)}

Chairman John Barrasso (R-WY) Ranking Member Tom Carper (D-DE)

Jim Inhofe (R-OK) has exhausted his six-year limit. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA), the current ranking member of EPW, is
retiring. Senator Carper could opt for the post over his current position on the Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs Committee. If Carper decides to stay at HSGA, Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD) would have the option of ranking
member of EPW or Foreign Relations. If Cardin should choose Foreign Relations, Senator Sanders would be next in line for
the ranking member position. Barrasso can be expected to continue the criticisms of current Chairman Inhofe of EPA
regulations and their effect on US energy development and the energy industry.

Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-UT)} Ranking Member Ron Wyden (D-OR)

Senator Hatch will continue to serve as Chairman by way of an agreement reached with Senator Grassley, who is actually
more senior to Senator Hatch on the Committee. (Grassley will serve as Judiciary Chairman.) Dan Coats (R-IN) is retiring
from Congress. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Pat Toomey (R-PA) both won re-election races. Eight Democratic
committee members will be running for re-election in 2018: Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Bill Nelson
(D-FL), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Tom Carper (D-DE), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), and Bob Casey (D-PA).

Chairman Bob Corker (R-TN) Ranking Member Ben Cardin (D-MD)

Chairman Lamar Alexander (R-TN) Ranking Member Patty Murray (D-WA)

lf Senator Murray opts for ranking member of Appropriations, Senator Sanders would be in line to be ranking member of
HELP where he could be expected to use the position to highlight income inequality.

Chairman Ron Johnson (R-WI} Ranking Member Claire McCaskill (D-MO)

Senator McCaskill will get the ranking member position if Senator Tom Carper (D-DE) opts for ranking member of EPW.

Chairman Charles Grassley (R-IA) Ranking Member Patrick Leahy (D-VT)

Senator Leahy will have the option of choosing ranking member of either Appropriations or Judiciary. Most think that with
the expectation of at least one Supreme Court nomination and immigration reform legislation in the next two years, he will
opt to stay in the ranking position on Judiciary.

EY 5 | Election 2016

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022377
