KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP

John Roth, Esq.
June 19, 2008
Page 3

prosecution as a result of Mr. Epstein's having entered into the September 24, 2007 Non
Prosecution Agreement with the USAO.

Notably, the Non Prosecution Agreement contains the following agreed condition:

Further, upon execution of this agreement and a plea agreement with the State Attomey’s Office,
the federal Grand Jury investigation will be suspended, and all pending federal Grand Jury
subpoenas will be held in abeyance unless and until the defendant violates any term of this
agreement. The defendant likewise agrees to withdraw his pending motion to intervene and to
quash certain grand jury subpoenas.

See Tab 21, September 24, 2007 Non Prosecution Agreement. It also guarantees that persons
identified in the Grand Jury subpoena such i. | and Leslie Groff
and others will not be prosecuted. The new Grand Jury subpoena clearly violates the Non-
Prosecution Agreement. Although Mr. Epstein has exercised his rights to appeal to the
Department of Justice with the full consent and knowledge of the USAO, he has not breached the
Agreement. The re-commencing of the Grand Jury is in violation of the Agreement.

But further, the new investigation, which features a wide-ranging, fishing-expedition type
to search in New York does nothing to satisfy the very essential elements of federal statutes that
are lacking despite the intensity of an over two-year investigation in the Palm Beach area.
Absent evidence of Internet luring, inducements while using the phone, travel for the purpose,
fraud or coercion, the subject of the New York investigation is as lacking in the essential basis
for converting a state case into a federal case as is the remainder of the Florida investigation.

The reaching out to New York to fill the void emanating from the failures of the Florida
investigation compellingly demonstrates the misuse of federal resources in an overzealous, over-
personalized, selective and extraordinary attempt to expand federal law to where it is has never
gone. This last-ditch attempt by Ms. Villafana reinforces our belief that the USAO does not have
facts that, without distortion, would justify a prosecution of Mr. Epstein.

In view of the prosecution’s often-verbalized desire to punish Mr. Epstein, we believe
that the prosecution summary suffers from critical inaccuracies and aggregates the expected
testimony of witnesses so as to reach a conclusion of guilt. Our contention is reinforced by the
fact that key prosecution witnesses have provided evidence and testimony that directly
undermines the prosecution’s misleading and inaccurate summary of its case. Indeed, we now
have received statements from three of the principal — (through a state
criminal deposition (through a federal FBI-USAO sworn and transcribed
interview), and (through a defense—generated sworn transcribed interview).
Each of these witnesses categorically denies each essential element that the prosecution will have
to prove in order to convert this quintessential state-law case into a federal matter.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012138
