ones spiritual unfolding within the stream of real time and space, finding emptiness
in the world of form and inaction in the world of action.

We worked at karessa so ardently that there was barely enough time left to
do our assignments in biology and chemistry. In a darkened room, Mary and | lay
legs locked, lying on our sides, moving slowly and rhythmically, humming Om and
waiting for our ascension. We worked at making the journey through Sri Aurobindo’s
soul planes of higher mind, illumined mind, infinitive mind, over mind and finally, the
supermind of infinitely empty no mind. This somewhat unusual way to study for a
three credit course in Asian Studies at Stanford grew naturally out of the central
message of Spiegelberg’s seminar that whereas “...deriving a universal theology is
not possible, having the universal experience is required for an understanding of
any of the world’s theologies.” The controversial Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of
Newark who teaches that Christian forms continue to evolve, John Shelby Spong,
D.D. says, “...every biblical word represents an attempt on the part of our ancestors
in faith to make sense out of a God experience in their time and place. The
experience ...is eternal and real. The explanations will never be eternal and real.
They will last only as long as the (cultural) mind-set that created them.”

Mary got an A+ grade, topping Spiegelberg’s class with a final examination
essay, which, in literary detail, described her episodes of samadhi, yoga’s state of
unity with the creator. Her 25 page blue book contained accounts of walking fugues,
spontaneously strong genital sensations, changes in tastes and smells, sudden
feelings of rising spinal-abdominal kundalini, middle of the night dreams of oceanic
orgasmic fusion with God. She failed to mention that she was describing her usual
pre-menstrual state.

During these college years, | learned about two Isaac Newtons The first | met
at elementary physics lectures; the unit was about how things worked called
mechanics. Logically and computationally consistent but taken on faith, | learned
about an invisible field force between masses called gravity that decayed in strength
like the inverse of the square of their distances apart and operated in my intuitive
world like an electromagnetic spirit. Less occult were the expressions of

gravitational fields as contact forces, computed for the tension in the string of a

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013511
