prosecution will occur in this matter as long as Epstein continues to uphold his agreement
with the State of Florida. ... Case agent is requested to contact writer in the event this matter
moves forward on a federal level.”

The memo was one of hundreds of documents, including dozens of copies of newspaper
articles about Epstein, that were posted on the FBI’s website. The website,
www.vault.fbi.gov, serves as the FBI’s electronic FOIA library. The heavily redacted
documents showed agents traveled to New York City, Sante Fe, N.M., and St. Thomas in the
U.S. Virgin Islands, where Epstein has homes. But there is little information about who they
interviewed or what they learned.

The only witness named in the documents is Alfredo Rodriguez, who was a houseman at
Epstein’s Palm Beach mansion in 2004. That’s when Epstein regularly paid young women to
give him sexually-charged massages, police said.

Rodriguez was convicted of obstruction of justice in 2010 and sentenced to 18 months in jail
for trying to sell a journal he purloined from Epstein. Prosecutors said the journal detailed
Epstein’s sexual dalliances. Rodriguez, who lived in Kendall, died in 2014.

Those familiar with FBI procedures said the records are administrative files, not
investigative ones. Some questioned why the files were posted on the FBI’s web site. The
FBI didn’t return a phone call for comment. According to the web site, the records were
released “in compliance with the National Archives and Records Administration
requirements.”

And while it’s been 10 years since Epstein pleaded guilty to prostitution charges and settled
dozens of lawsuits with young women, litigation continues.

Scott J. Link

Board Certified Business Litigation

LINK & ROCKENBACH, PA
1555 Palm Beach Lakes Blvd., Suite 930
West Palm Beach, FL 33401

office fax
| Email:

This e-mail may contain privileged or confidential
information. If it is not meant for you, please
delete it and notify us immediately. Please
confirm receipt of time sensitive communications because email deliveries may be

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028538
