CPAC

n February 23, a 75-degree day in Washington, the president woke up complaining
() about an overheated White House. But for once, the president’s complaints were not
the main concern. The excited focus in the West Wing was organizing a series of car pools
out to the Conservative Political Action Conference, the annual gathering of conservative
movement activists, which had outgrown the accommodations of Washington hotels and
moved to the Gaylord Resort on Maryland’s National Harbor waterfront. CPAC, right of
right-of-center and trying to hold steady there, ambivalent about all the conservative
vectors that further diverged from that point, had long had an uncomfortable relationship
with Trump, viewing him as an unlikely conservative, if not a charlatan. CPAC, too, saw
Bannon and Breitbart as practicing an outré conservatism. For several years Breitbart had
staged a nearby competitive conference dubbed “The Uninvited.”

But the Trump White House would dominate or even subsume the conference this year,
and everybody wanted to turn out for this sweet moment. The president, set to speak on
the second day, would, like Ronald Reagan, address the conference in his first year in
office, whereas both Bushes, wary of CPAC and conservative activists, had largely
snubbed the gathering.

Kellyanne Conway, a conference opener, was accompanied by her assistant, two
daughters, and a babysitter. Bannon was making his first official pubic appearance of the
Trump presidency, and his retinue included Rebekah Mercer, the pivotal Trump donor and
Breitbart funder, her young daughter, and Allie Hanley, a Palm Beach aristocrat,
conservative donor, and Mercer friend. (The imperious Hanley, who had not met Bannon
before, pronounced him “dirty” looking.)

Bannon was scheduled to be interviewed in the afternoon session by CPAC chairman
Matt Schlapp, a figure of strained affability who seemed to be trying to embrace the
Trump takeover of his conference. A few days before, Bannon had decided to add Priebus
to the interview, as both a private gesture of goodwill and a public display of unity—a sign
of a budding alliance against Kushner.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019979
