I've heard from a few other BDSM submissives that they like feeling anger during their
encounters, that they need anger in order to get where they want to go.

If I follow the thread of anger, now....

Where will it take me?

KK Ok
This post can be found on the Internet at:

http://clarissethorn.com/blog/2010/12/26/anger-fear-and-pain/

EVOLUTION:
[theory] Sexual Openness: Two Ways To Encourage It
This was written in 2010, and it amazes me how I've changed since then.

I don't like to talk about people being further along in their sexual experimentation
than others; people are simply in different places, based on their preferences and
experiences. I look at this piece now and I think that maybe it would be better-written if
Id tried to talk about sexual evolution in a more neutral way. However, it's undeniable
that when I was younger, I often felt like I was somehow held up or inhibited, and I
no longer feel that way about sex. And I do think that in general, lots of people want to
explore but aren't sure how to overcome their own hesitance and psychological blocks.
Some of them even write to me for advice, and I can only tell them what worked for me:
the approach I outlined in this post.

TK OK ok

Sexual Openness: Two Ways To Encourage It

I've been thinking a lot lately about the factors that went into my sexual evolution. People
have always seen me as sexually open-minded, and I had an extraordinarily liberal
upbringing... but at the same time, I think I spent a long time surprisingly buttoned-up.

Part of it was the men I fell in love with, the partners I had. Monogamy felt right to me,
and that effectively meant that once I was in a relationship, it was hard to explore
sexuality beyond what my lovers were comfortable with. I've often looked back in
frustration at sexual shame and inhibitions that I feel were imposed on me by some past
partners. But at the same time, there's no denying that -- even when my partners were
relatively inhibited -- I was with those men partly because I felt comfortable with
them. I recall conversations in which I felt frustrated at a lover's unwillingness to explore
or discuss certain things... but I also recall times when I felt relieved that they were
willing to leave those things alone.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018521
