TTERSON

se sold the home, which he and
their 1986 wedding. He got into
hat the buyer, a Kazakh billion-
had paid three million pounds
ce
n announced that she was mov-
id ski chalet in Switzerland.
ig, sometimes sordid story of the
lot the end of the scandals that
ound the prince.
ia Roberts’s allegations about her
-and the photo of him with his
-appeared in the press. Prince
a skiing holiday to confer with
issue a statement denying Rob-
was widely seen as being without
royal family.
Jorld Economic Forum in Davos,
xin forced to “reiterate and to real-
de by Buckingham Palace that he
ionship with Roberts, who had.

the start of the year that Prince ~

in feet.”
Prince Andrew said at the time.

you be making a statement?” the - i

oberts signed a sworn statement1 ing

exual contact with him as I] have
Siven what he knows and has seé n,
th abo i

G

aply voluntarily tell the tru

‘ Barry Krischer said in 2016 when contacted via telephone and
asked about Jeffrey Epstein.

Fitrtuy Ricu

everything. 1 hope my attorneys can interview Prince Andrew
under oath about the contacts and that he will tell the truth.”

According to several reports, Roberts’s lawyers had written
to the prince, asking him to respond to her allegations in court.
Reportedly, Buckingham Palace refused delivery of the letter.

“I knew he was a member of the British royal family, but I
just called him ‘Andy,” Roberts had said in her statement. “I got
news from Maxwell that I would be meeting a prince. Later that
day, Epstein told me I was meeting a ‘major prince.’ Epstein told
me ‘to exceed’ everything I had been taught. He emphasized that
whatever Prince Andrew wanted, I was to make sure he got.”

Signing her name to the document, Roberts wrote, “I declare
under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct.”

That spring, Prince Andrew got a rare break: a federal judge
in South Florida ordered that the allegations Roberts made be
stricken from civil-court records. “At this juncture in the pro-
ceedings, these lurid details are unnecessary,” the judge con-
cluded. Once again, Buckingham Palace vehemently denied the
prince’s involvement in any activities, sexual or otherwise, per-
taining to Roberts. But that same year, reports leaked that the
BBC program Panorama was working on an in-depth investiga-
tion into the prince’s dealings with Epstein and Roberts.

As of this writing, the investigation has yet to air.

Barry Krischer

“‘Lhave no intention of being dragged into that conversation,”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022174

