The Declinists at Work

March 1979
Used with permission of Bloomberg L.P.
Copyright© 2016. All rights reserved.

July 2016
Source: Financial Times. Martin Wolf/James Ferguson, 2016. “Global elites must heed the warning

of populist rage.” Financial Times / FT.com, 20 July. Used under licence from the Financial Times. All
Rights Reserved.

Conference Board. Even median household income,
as measured by the US Census Bureau, rose in
2015 at the fastest rate on record.

In the corporate sector, total profits of domestic
corporations as a percentage of GDP, as measured
by the national income and product accounts
(NIPA), are close to all-time highs. At 11.5% of
GDP, profits not only are well above the historical
average of 9.6%, but have been higher than
current levels only 17% of the time since 1950, as
shown in Exhibit 2.

Despite these “glass half-full” facts, the
announcements of US decline that pervaded the
airwaves in the depths of the global financial
crisis have persisted. We continue to be inundated
with analysis of “America’s relative decline,”4
“America’s slow-growth tailspin” and “sclerotic
growth,” “an economic in-tray full of problems”*®
and, of course, “secular stagnation.”’ Two books
published in 2016 that have received extensive
coverage epitomize the sentiment: Robert Gordon’s
The Rise and Fall of American Growth® and
Marc Levinson’s An Extraordinary Time: The
End of the Postwar Boom and the Return of the
Ordinary Economy?

Some of the images are equally telling. We
were struck by a recent image of the Statue of
Liberty on its side that resembles a Business Week
cover of March 1979 with a tear trickling down

Lady Liberty’s face. Since WWII, the waning of US
preeminence has been a topic of recurrent hand-
wringing. Whether prompted by the flexing of
Soviet muscle, most spectacularly with the launch
of Sputnik in the 1950s; the civil rights upheavals
and growing fallout from the Vietnam War in the
1960s, the Arab oil embargo and the Watergate
scandal of the 1970s, the rise of Japan in the 1980s
or the rise of China in the 2000s, the declinists
have foretold the ebbing of American preeminence.
Typical of the genre is a 2009 book provocatively
titled When China Rules the World by British
columnist Martin Jacques.

Yet, as we wrote in our 2011 Outlook: Stay
the Course, neither the global financial crisis nor
the rise of China will hinder what we described
as “America’s structural resilience, fortitude
and ingenuity” and remove the US from its
preeminent perch.

What explains our difference of opinion, which
has consistently underpinned our investment
recommendation for a greater allocation to US
assets and for remaining invested at such high
valuations? Why do we believe that the US is on
a more solid footing both absolutely and relative
to all other major countries in the world? Is it a
matter of perspective, analytical rigor, bias, review
of longer economic history, or reliance on a big
cadre of external experts in specialized fields?

Outlook | Investment Strategy Group 7

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014540
