media president, had one of the most dysfunctional communication operations in modern
White House history. Mike Dubke, a Republican PR operative who was hired as White
House communications director, was, by all estimations, from the first day on his way out
the door. In the end he lasted only three months.

7 OK Ok

The White House Correspondents’ Dinner rose, as much as any other challenge for the
new president and his team, as a test of his abilities. He wanted to do it. He was certain
that the power of his charm was greater than the rancor that he bore this audience—or that
they bore him.

He recalled his 2015 Saturday Night Live appearance—which, in his view, was entirely
successful. In fact, he had refused to prepare, had kept saying he would “improvise,” no
problem. Comedians don’t actually improvise, he was told; it’s all scripted and rehearsed.
But this counsel had only marginal effect.

Almost nobody except the president himself thought he could pull off the
Correspondents’ Dinner. His staff was terrified that he would die up there in front of a
seething and contemptuous audience. Though he could dish it out, often very harshly, no
one thought he could take it. Still, the president seemed eager to appear at the event, if
casual about it, too—with Hicks, ordinarily encouraging his every impulse, trying not to.

Bannon pressed the symbolic point: the president should not be seen currying the favor
of his enemies, or trying to entertain them. The media was a much better whipping boy
than it was a partner in crime. The Bannon principle, the steel stake in the ground,
remained: don’t bend, don’t accommodate, don’t meet halfway. And in the end, rather than
implying that Trump did not have the talent and wit to move this crowd, that was a much
better way to persuade the president that he should not appear at the dinner.

When Trump finally agreed to forgo the event, Conway, Hicks, and virtually
everybody else in the West Wing breathed a lot easier.

7 OK Ok

Shortly after five o’clock on the one hundredth day of his presidency—a particularly
muggy one—while twenty-five hundred or so members of news organizations and their
friends gathered at the Washington Hilton for the White House Correspondents’ Dinner,
the president left the West Wing for Marine One, which was soon en route to Andrews Air
Force Base. Accompanying him were Steve Bannon, Stephen Miller, Reince Priebus,
Hope Hicks, and Kellyanne Conway. Vice President Pence and his wife joined the group
at Andrews for the brief flight on Air Force One to Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, where the
president would give a speech. During the flight, crab cakes were served, and Face the
Nation’s John Dickerson was granted a special hundredth-day interview.

The first Harrisburg event was held at a factory that manufactured landscaping and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020040
