at sentencing. The defendant’s prior relationship with a 16-year-old was not illegal
in Texas or in California, they said, and the girl classified her relationship as a
friendship.

All the relevant information was provided to the probation department and at
McDaniel’s detention hearing, they added, making the point that it was in the record
and therefore, not intentionally withheld by the government.

While Zloch conceded that the information was part of the probation and bond
hearing record, he said it was nevertheless the U.S. Attorney’s Office’s duty to
present the defendant’s prior history with minors at sentencing. He refused to strike
the most critical portions of his order.

“Lack of candor to the court is a serious charge, and the judge has quite reasonably
expressed dismay that the assistant U.S. attorney apparently intended that he never
be given a full picture of the defendant’s conduct,” Hakes said.

But nine months later, in September 2007, Villafafia was in the throes of thorny
negotiations with Epstein’s lawyers. While an FBI investigation was ongoing,
Villafafia discussed ways to quietly resolve the case, emails show.

<4

A Miami Herald investigation, “Perversion of Justice,” published in November,
revealed how federal prosecutors, including Acosta and Villafafia, tried to keep the
full scope of Epstein’s crimes out of the public eye. At one point, they discussed
charging Epstein in Miami, instead of Palm Beach where the crimes happened,
noting there would be less media coverage.

Emails also show that prosecutors repeatedly abided by Epstein’s lawyers’ demands
that his victims not be told that an agreement had been reached until after he was
sentenced. That meant that the girls could not appear at the hearing to derail the
deal. Prosecutors had drafted a 53-page federal indictment on sex trafficking
charges, but Acosta instead allowed Epstein to plead guilty to two prostitution
charges in state court. In exchange, Epstein and his co-conspirators were given
federal immunity.

Villafafia wrote Epstein’s lawyer, Jay Lefkowitz, to discuss the wording of the
sentencing agreement for the judge:

“T will include all our standard language regarding resolving all criminal liability and
I will mention co-conspirators, but I would prefer not to highlight for the judge all of
the other crimes and all the other persons we could charge,” Villafafia wrote.

At Epstein’s sentencing, assistant Palm Beach prosecutor Lanna Belohlavek was
questioned by the judge about whether all of Epstein’s victims were told about the
deal, as required by law.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021737
