affinity). They are called renormalization group equations, and, with respect to
prediction, they replace any or all of the original specific predictive equations for the
particular system under study (Cvitanovic’, 1989). Whereas the U sequence and
critical point behaviors are manifestations of qualitative universality, these scaling
numbers are manifestations of quantitative universality. We discuss them here
because their omnipresence in computationally realized differential equations as
well as physical and chemical experiments along with their quantitative specificity
(with values in all systems as “constant” as x) constitute a most persuasive
argument for the substantiality of modern dynamical systems approaches to brain

and other biological research.

The physical and physiological requirements for manifestations of these
universal bifurcation scenarios can appear to be remarkably minimal. In physics, for
example a full panoply can be observed in a “dripping faucet” (Shaw,1984).
Similarly, a small piece of extirpated and perfused myenteric or femoral artery will
demonstrate these transitions in vasomotion spontaneously and almost

independent of flow rate (Stergiopulos et al, 1998).

Feigenbaum discovered that in dynamical systems manifesting a series of

period doubling bifurcations, the ratio of the parameter value at which the next

period doubling bifurcation occurred relative to the last one ~ ... and the ratio

of the magnitude of the spawning point to the one spawned ~ 2.5. (Feigenbaum,
1979). By “rescaling” distances along a parameter value (see below) using what is
called a “universal renormalization operator” the geometric situation around each
bifurcation point (though of different absolute “size) remains relatively the same. In
intermittent systems, burst length varies as the inverse square root of the distance
of the value of the parameter from that value that elicited the fixed point (Manneville
and Pomeau, 1980). The universal characteristic of the third common parametric

route to chaos, quasiperiodicity, is that the ratio of independent frequencies found

most resistant to mode locking and breakdown into chaos is, “i = 1618... the

Ost

number to which the ratio of adjacent Fibonocci numbers converge (1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13,

199

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013699
