Energy — Full text articles

Nuclear Operator Raises Alarm on Crisis
Hiroko Tabuchi — New York Times

The operator of Japan’s tsunami-hit nuclear power plant sounded the alarm on the gravity of the deepening crisis of
containment at the coastal site on Friday, saying that there are more than 200,000 tons of radioactive water in makeshift
tanks vulnerable to leaks, with no reliable way to check on them or anywhere to transfer the water.

The latest disclosures add to along list of recent accidents, leaks and breakdowns that have underscored grave
vulnerabilities at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant site more than two years after a powerful earthquake and
tsunami set off meltdowns at three reactors.

They come two weeks after the prime minister, Shinzo Abe, promised that his government would take a more active role in
the site’s cleanup, raising questions over how seriously he has taken that pledge. Mr. Abe’s government has continued to
push for a restart of the country’s nuclear power program, and he heads to the Middle East on Saturday to promote
Japanese exports to the region, including nuclear technology.

Mr. Abe also plans to lead Tokyo’s delegation to Argentina for the International Olympic Committee’s final vote, set for Sept.
7, on the host city for the 2020 Olympics. Tokyo, 150 miles south of the stricken nuclear power plant, is one of three finalists
competing to host the games. The others are Istanbul and Madrid.

Opposition lawmakers here have demanded that Mr. Abe stay home and declare a state of emergency.

“The nuclear crisis is real and ongoing, yet the government continues to look the other way,” said Yoshiko Kira of the
opposition Japan Communist Party, which made significant gains in parliamentary elections last month.

“The government should declare a state of emergency right now, and intervene to stop the outflow of contaminated water,”
Ms. Kira said at an anti-nuclear rally outside Mr. Abe’s office in Tokyo.

Mr. Abe remains popular, and it is uncertain how large a liability the crisis at the Fukushima plant will become for him.

But it has become increasingly clear that the latest problems may be too large for the plant’s operator, the Tokyo Electric
Power Company, or Tepco, to handle.

Tepco has built nearly 1,000 tanks at the sprawling complex to store as many as 335,000 tons of contaminated water, the
product of coolant pumped into the reactors to keep their cores from overheating, and groundwater pouring into their
breached basements at a rate of 400 tons a day. This week, Tepco said one tank had sprung a huge leak.

On Friday, Tepco presented an even starker view of the situation, acknowledging that as much as 220,000 tons of that water
is stored in makeshift steel tanks similar to the one that is leaking. The operator said the 36-foot-tall cylindrical tanks, meant
as atemporary repository for the growing amount of radiated water at the complex, used vulnerable rubber sealing and that
their ability to withstand radiation was not tested.

The tanks are susceptible to leaks at the seams and through their concrete base, said Noriyuki Imaizumi, the acting general
manager of Tepco’s nuclear power division. Anearby drain can carry any leaked water to the sea, Mr. Imaizumi said, and
high radiation readings along a section suggest that water has already traveled through the drain to the ocean.

The makeshift tanks also lack water level gauges, making it difficult to detect leaks. Only two workers are assigned to
checking nearly 1,000 tanks on two-hour patrols twice a day, Mr. Imaizumi said.

The Nuclear Regulation Authority, which the Japanese government ordered to more actively advise and monitor Tepco’s
activities at the plant, had told the company to begin transferring the water from the makeshift tanks to better-built vessels.
But after visiting the plant on Friday, an authority commissioner, Toyoshi Fuketa, said the vast quantities made doing so
quickly “unrealistic.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019414
