Finding high-level mathematical thinkers at home in metaphysical surrounds
and metaphysicians diligently practicing mathematics are certainly not new. Some
instructive examples include, famously, the Pythagoreans, the 15 Century Catholic
Cardinal Nicholas Von Cusa, who used geometric symbols to record his spiritual
philosophy, and the Talmudic-Cartesian style of argumentation of Nicholas de
Spinoza. This approach to an examination of metaphysical systems, sometimes
called mathematicism, exploits the machinery of the mathematical mind to evaluate
the consistency and completeness of thoughts, to create representative axiomatic
structures and to operate within them using syntactic calculus. The practice of the
rational dialectic of mathematicism, working for moral purity of heart, develops a
brain-somatic discipline much like the exercises of Yoga.

This approach flies in the face of the major premise of these essays, my
belief in the necessity of what William James and others have called the primary
religious experience in order to know God. Recall that my father’s favorite Jewish
mystic, Abraham Abulafia, said this experience gives birth to an activated mind that
can then immediately and completely inform the Spirit. Among the religious English
mathematicians, | learned that it doesn’t have to happen this way. One can
apparently think oneself to It. A well known example of a modern theistic Oxford
type, the Magdalene College English tutor and Don, C.S. Lewis, in his introduction

tt

to St. Athanasius’s The Incarnation of the Word of God, wrote, “...| believe that
many who find that nothing happens when they sit down or kneel down with a book
of devotion, might find that their heart would sing unbidden while they are working
their way through a tough bit of theology with a pipe in their teeth and a pencil in
their hand...” In contrast, without my personal experiences with joyful
transcendence, the direct feeling of His presence, | would not have known about the
goals of his more analytic efforts. It was a struggle for me to use a rational mind to
share the meanings of the poetic ruminations in his BBC lectures, Mere Christianity.
This Reader from Oxford with two firsts in Latin and Greek followed by another first

tt

in English Literature, described the world as “...enemy occupied territory...” the

omnipresence of the Good Power turned Dark Power of the Prince of Darkness and

the Christian as “...a man who is enabled to repent and pick himself up...”

173

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013673
