Koch Brothers reaches every newspaper through a large array of think tanks like the AEI and Cato
Institute, not to mention the vast array of Koch think tanks.

C. If you don't like this, tough luck. Life is not fair. This is not going to be reversed. Think of it as
watching a science experiment. Bush lost the popular vote to Gore in 2001 and completely reversed
policies on tax, environment, Middle East, energy, fracking, birth control, and LGBT issues. Trump,
Pence, Bannon and Koch will make a deal which will be a hybrid of religious right on moral issues and
zero intrusion from government” in commerce. Republicans already control the Senate, the House, a
majority of governorships as well as a majority of attorneys general. It will be very hard to reverse
this. And if Trump can deliver jobs to the midwest red states, more senate seats will turn red. Tom
Pyle's list of things to for the Department of Energy's transition team is expressly designed to do this.
This includes new oil and gas leasing projects, more fracking, more coal, more LNG projects -- and a
green light for both the Keystone and Dakota pipelines. The working paper reneges on the Paris pact,
the Clean Power Plan and the carbon tax. And it is expressly a climate change denial policy. States
like North Dakota, South Dakota, Oklahoma, Iowa, Texas, Louisiana, West Virginia, Kansas and
others will come to life again.. Most of these states have small populations but each gets a governor
and two senators.

This report is published and distributed by IND-X Advisors Limited (“IND-X”). IND-X is
regulated by the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission and is a registered
investment advisor with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This message is
intended for the addressee only and may contain private and confidential information or
material which may be privileged. If it has come to you in error you must delete it immediately
and should not copy it or show it to any other person. IND-X and its affiliates make no
representation that the contents of this e-mail are accurate or complete nor shall they have
any liability for any loss of profit, indirect or other consequential losses or other economic loss
suffered by any person arising from reliance upon such contents.

This e-mail is confidential and subject to IND-X Advisors Limited's electronic communication policy, which can be viewed at:
http://www. indxadvisors.com/go/legal

<mime-attachment.png><mime-attachment.gif><mime-attachment.jpg>

This e-mail is confidential and subject to IND-X Advisors Limited's electronic communication policy, which can be viewed at:
http://www.indxadvisors.com/go/legal

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026045
