skilled personnel could limit the ability of the Company to increase sales of existing products and services
and launch new product offerings.

6.1.4 The Company has significant leverage, and expects to incur additional debt,
which could result in adverse effects on its financial condition

The Company has significant leverage and expects to incur additional debt in connection with the
acquisition and operation of its businesses. Although the Company intends to use leverage in a manner it
believes to be prudent, the leveraged capital structure the Company plans to utilize may significantly
increase the Company's exposure to adverse economic factors such as rising interest rates, downturns in
the economy or deteriorations in the condition of the businesses or their respective industries. If a
business cannot generate adequate cash flow to meet debt obligations, the Company may suffer a partial
or total loss of capital invested in such business.

The Company's ability to service its substantial indebtedness, and meet its other obligations depends on
its future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, many of
which are outside the Company's conirol. The Company cannot be certain that its cash flow will be
sufficient for such purposes. If the Company does not have enough liquidity, it may be required to
refinance all or part of its existing debt, sell assets or borrow more money. The Company cannot
guarantee that it will be able tc do so on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, the terms of existing or
future debt agreements, may restrict the Company from pursuing any of these alternatives.

The substantial level of indebtedness incurred by the Company may have the following consequences of
potential concern to investors in the Company:

e The Company must use a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to pay interest and
principal on its indebtedness, which reduces the funds available for other business purposes such
as capital expenditures;

e The Company's ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures,
acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired;

« The Company may be limited in its ability to borrow additional funds;
« The Company may have a higher level of indebtedness than some of its competitors, which may
put it at a competitive disadvantage and reduce its flexibility in planning for, or responding to,

changing conditions in its industry, including increased competition; and

e The Company may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments than it
would without the leverage.

Adverse developments in the Company's financial condition would have adverse effects upon the
business and results of the Company as a whole.

6.1.5 The Company faces intense competition in the early childhood care and
education services industry from numerous other types of providers

The early childhood care and education services industry is competitive and highly fragmented. The most
important competitive factors generally are quality, convenience and, to a lesser extent, price. The
Company's, specifically KLC OpCo's, competition in this industry consists principally of:

e other for-profit, center-based child care providers, including franchise organizations;

e preschool, kindergarten and before and after school programs provided by public schools;

46

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024479
