former. I neglected “government wealth” net of national debt, which is small and
often negative, as I don’t feel that I understand it well enough. I took consumption as
the sum of personal consumption expenditure (PCE) and government consumption
expenditure (GCE). I also downloaded real stock market rates of growth, dividends

and return from the Global Financial Data website for the same years and countries.

Yearly change in capital in each country gave each year’s capital growth as a flow. I
added this to consumption to give what call market-valued output. I said earlier
that Piketty and Zucman should logically have done the same. This gave the values

for (4.1) and (4.1a).

I then divided by year-end capital to give values for (4.3). 1 next found annual
changes in those three to give acceleration, productivity gain and thrift gain as
shown in (4.5) and (4.5a), and divided by acceleration to find the two indexes of

(4.6) and (4.6a).

The test from Global Financial Data took fewer steps. Stock market growth rate, rate
of return and dividend rate were downloaded directly. | took them as corresponding
respectively to growth rate, capital productivity and consumption rate in (3.3a). |
found their annual changes to find values for (3.4a), and again divided by

acceleration to reach (3.5a).

This allows tests of Mill’s idea from national accounts data for all eight nations
reported at the Piketty-Zucman website, and over their entire reporting periods
through 2010. (The website also reports for Spain, but only since 1993 and without
data for consumption.) In each year, for each country, change in capital growth rate
is compared to change in consumption rate (consumption/capital). If consumption
rate grows faster than capital growth rate while both grow, or declines faster if both
decline, the free growth index in that year is greater than one. If they change at the
same rate in the same direction it is one exactly. If both change in the same direction,

but consumption changes less, the free growth index is between zero and one. If

Chapter 4 Mill’s Idea 1/11/16 17

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011008
