What should we do? the next two years in biz world appears to both you and I, very fragile. Im
happy to have brad sit in ?

Date: Thu, Oct 15, 2015 at 10:38 PM
Subject:

To: Melanie Spin: a

Office, - adagoes. , hire heather a paralegal. Joslin goes or is closely managed by new cfo with tax
experience. . castrucii goes asap.as he merely adds to mess.( too many people , ex 7 people or more to
pay a bill) eva goes. outsource as much as possible... bookkeeping systems built from scratch,

airplane restructure, boat . same, new grats. phaidon sale , decide on artspace survivability, regan, . do
the kids really want these? , children accounting ie bens house.etc. re do estate for new facts. redo
loans, trading accounts activity, . gaming -foreign- disclosures. . BRH TRA re thinks . household and
construction architects. . redone. art partnership , choice of paintings. . re do structure of consultants.
tax re family office... decide if investments are a realistic option in the next three years.. insurance.
operations. airplane , etc. . art foundation , private. max charity contributions. financial reports. still
waiting. ? on line banking, . tax planning, family office deductions ( profit center ) . airplane certificate,
redone jetaviationredo. . paper gigi ( E )trust to avoid gift tax. .

today is Oct 15

With your full knowledge I paid out 8 mil to my staff before june, . soi guess I can safely assume that
after consideration of all the things I did for the entire past year separate and apart from your unique free
after care concept. , what you thought was ultimately fair was the contribution of 5 million to a
foundation and a total of 2 million dollars to me.

Date: Thu, Feb 4, 2016 at 10:01 PM
Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella es
josh's arrival cut short our needed conversation. I understand we have a difference of opinion. friends

sometimes disagree, I shook on the 20 so you have no further obligation, none, I am willing to have
brad karp hear both sides. as my view , you andi had an agreement. on phaidon /publishing, and then a
long standing what you say is 28 , which is correct AFTer TAx. ,37 pre. . that was our numbers. I was
clear what i thought the transactions were worth. far less than full. alanetc. , had you said i will pay
you only 20. i would have said ill pass. you never told me that 50-60 the number that i put on the
table at the very beginning was not right. you asked that i lay out my plan step by step. and what i believe
would have been the fair thing to do is say to me, I will pay you only 20 if you do asiask, not tell me
for the first time only after i laid it all out. had it not been you, 1 would have required payment in escrow.
BEFORE _ fyithe reason I sent you an invoice so that if you decided that you wanted me to continue
this year . it would be applied to last years income. I think today was a beginiing for you. I am glad I
will meet wendy the 23, rd, . separate and aprt from being your sounding board for personal issues, I do
not see my involvment moving forward.

Date: Wed, Feb 10, 2016 at 12:56 AM
Subject: Fwd:

To: Melanie Spinella < La
this was sent four months ago, nothing has changed
sent oct 15. before big transaction.

Office, - adagoes. , hire heather a paralegal. Joslin goes or is closely managed by new cfo with tax
experience. . castrucii goes asap.as he merely adds to mess.( too many people , ex 7 people or more to

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023233
