sk , BREE WTEC

USM Nie, Te5S$ ie

ne
re
ol belek

View this image >

Palm Beach County Court

Among the other people who most frequently flew with Clinton are Maxwell and Adriana Ross (formerly Adriana Mucinska),
another Epstein assistant and a former model. The logs also show him flying with former advisor Ira Magaziner, ex-Transportation

Secretary Rodney Slater, and fashion model Naomi Campbell.

The pilots’ documents also leave numerous and — understandably — intriguing questions unanswered: Clinton was on four flights
with women identified as only “Janice” and “Jessica,” who have not been identified; he once flew with a person identified only as
“one female” and also, during part of the trip throughout Africa, a young woman named Chauntae Davies, who appears in
Epstein’s phone directly under the massage category and whose expertise in Swedish massage was described in Gawker's story
mentioning her last week. And because the entries are hand-written in a very cramped log form, it’s impossible to know if

important names ended up illegible or left out altogether, nor if there are other logs that have not been revealed.

But based on what's in the court files, there are no further clues about those flights, other than the testimony and public
statements of Roberts, who has described the airplane as a kind of high-altitude Gomorrah. What is on the record is a deposition
of Larry Visoski, one of Epstein’s former pilots, who recalls having Clinton on his plane as many as 20 times. When asked, “Do you

remember him being on the airplane with younger girls?” Visoski replies, simply, “No.”

Clinton flew literally around the world with Epstein, traveling from New York to London, to Hong Kong, Singapore, Thailand,
Morocco, Portugal, Russia, and throughout Africa. In almost every case, according to cross-referenced information on his speaking
engagements, Clinton was apparently traveling for professional reasons, and, according to the logs, he never flew with his wealthy

friend anywhere near the U.S. Virgin Islands.

That does little to bolster statements by Roberts, who in a 2011 conversation with her lawyers (which both Vew York Post's Page
Sixand Radar Online described as an “interview”) claimed Clinton traveled to Epstein’s infamous retreat on Little St. James Island
in 2002.

Earlier this month, it was reported that Roberts is writing a “tell-all” memoir about her experiences. In a sworn affidavit filed in
court last week, she claimed to have had sex with Epstein, Dershowitz, England’s Prince Andrew, and several other men on
numerous occasions, and portrayed a three-year period ending in 2002 when Epstein passed her off to his friends continually. But,
she added, “I have never had sexual relations with Clinton, nor have I claimed to have had such relations. I have never seen him

have sexual relations with anyone.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022703
