bedroom and loves the restaurants, bars and grocery stores that dot the area

In July, StreetEasy reports Yorkville’s median
price per square foot was $1,098, up 5.1
percent from the year prior and a whopping
29.8 percent from the month prior. The Upper
East Side as a whole, of course, boasts a
higher median: $1,694 per square foot in July.

“It’ll actually be a great investment,” Dean
says. “Downtown is extremely pricey, and I

think there’s a lot more upside to the Upper
First-time homebuyer Elizabeth Dean in a model East Side.”

unit at Carnegie Park. She moves into her own

one-bedroom soon.

Part of Carnegie Park’s makeover includes a
slate of plush amenities designed by classicist
Robert A.M. Stern, the architect behind
famously ritzy buildings like 15 Central Park West. (The pool, the roof deck and the in-
house “mini-Equinox” gym lured Dean.) Available apartments range from a $955,000
one-bedroom to a $7.15 million penthouse.

Photo: Brian Zak

You'll be able to drive up to 20 East End instyle via its porte-cochére and motor court. (The latter is depicted in
the rendering.)
Photo: Hayes Davidson

Stern is also working on a ground-up project at 20 East End Avenue that could pass as
a setback-laden prewar, with old-school details like a porte-cochére, which allows
residents to enter in a vehicle via an archway from the street and drive right up to the
lobby door in a circular motor court. One of these hasn’t been a part of any newly
constructed building since the 1930s! About half of its 43 condos, spread across 18
stories, are in contract from $4.49 million to $14.25 million.

Still, three-fourths of New York City residents are renters, and the Upper East Side’s
new crop of construction has something for them, too. Related has topped out on a 36-
story tower at 205 E. 92nd St., where a playground used to sit. The uber-fancy
development will have a massive two-story Equinox gym and a private school for kids
with language-based learning disabilities on its lower floors.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022438
