learned which party was victorious, nor the cause of the war: but I felt for the rest of that day as if I had
had my feelings excited and harrowed by witnessing the struggle, the ferocity and carnage, of a human
battle before my door.” What is distinctive about ant battles and the deaths that ensue is that they are
coordinated, with success driven by group size. As the biologist Eldridge Adams has demonstrated,
bigger groups are more likely to win, more likely to kill a higher number of their smaller opponents, and
less likely to incur any fatalities. Despite the similarities between ant and human battles, two differences
undermine the usefulness of this analogy for understanding the evolution of lethal aggression in humans:
ants are only a very distant evolutionary cousin, subject to extremely different pressures of social life, and
their cooperative efforts are largely among individuals who are virtual genetic clones. When humans go to
battle, cooperation is largely among unrelated individuals who are complete strangers. Of the small
sample of species committing adulticide, chimpanzees are our best bet as they are closer evolutionary
cousins and they join forces with kin and non-kin.

To get a sense of lethal aggression in chimpanzees, consider the following description by the
anthropologist David Watts and his colleagues concerning an attack by males of the Ngogo community of
Uganda (emphasized words are mine):

[Field Assistant] G. Mbabazi found 12 adult and three adolescent males, 10 of which had participated in

the boundary patrol 2 days before ... in the eastern part of the Ngogo chimpanzees’ territory. They

started another boundary patrol by quickly and quietly moving south and then east. At 0830 hr, they

moved east through a field of elephant grass (Pennisetum purpureum), then reentered the forest and went

toward the spot where BT, LO, and MO [three adult male chimpanzees] had been displaying 1 day

before and the area where Ngogo males had patrolled the day before that. As they reentered the forest,

the Ngogo chimpanzees met chimpanzees from another community. The neighboring chimpanzees were

feeding quietly on Pseudospondias microcarpa fruit in the same tree under which BT, LO, and MO had

displayed. G. Mbabazi could not ascertain the precise number of chimpanzees from the neighboring

group, but he saw at least two females with infants, one juvenile, and one adult male that immediately

fled northeast with the Ngogo chimpanzees in pursuit. The Ngogo chimpanzees caught up to the strange

adult male after chasing him for about 100 m and surrounded him. Adult Ngogo male EL began to

pummel the intruder, and adults BF, BRU, LO, and MO quickly joined him. The strange male tried to

escape down a small hill but could not elude these five Ngogo males and others that joined them. The

Ngogo males, led by EL, continued to beat, bite, and kick him for 20 min, and dragged him farther

down this hill into a small stream valley about 50 m away from the spot of his initial capture, where he

died during or shortly after the attack. All of the Ngogo males remained in the area after the stranger

was killed. Several circled his body and some sniffed it, while others sat nearby. ...Careful inspection

showed that the victim suffered wounds across his entire body ... including a deep gash to the bone on

the left humerus and a deep puncture on the left side of the thorax near the heart. The only missing

body part was the victim’s testes, which were recovered 50 m away, near where he was initially captured

(2006, p.g., 166).

Watts’ description captures several important features of adulticide in chimpanzees — both at the
same field site and others throughout Africa — and in other species. The lethal attacks are explicitly
proactive and planned. This is important because many cases of non-lethal aggression are reactive and
impulsive, and studies of human and nonhuman aggression reveal different brain mechanisms underlying

these two forms of violence. When chimpanzees attack, they use stealth to sneak up on the victim, and

Hauser Chapter 1. Nature’s secrets 39

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012785
