a Dodge. There is nowhere to go. Gatelands produce “winner take all” systems, but
they also produce these “loser gets nothing” dynamics - and an absolutely chilly,
fatal cost of separation from the winning system. A discipline of network science
known as “queing theory” helps us understand why. In studies of massively
connected systems, the more time machines spend on their main task - hunting
prime numbers or DNA patterns, for instance - and the less time chattering with
each other about how they will compute, the faster they run. Winning protocols
avoid this terrible inefficiency of translation because it can be spread across so
much connection. In fact, the great breakthrough of computer systems in recent
years has been the ability to handle massive amounts of data all at once, to maintain
versions of information in a concurrent state many places in the world. This is the
essential technical leap that permits compression of time. And it depends entirely on
careful and gated design.

To be inside a gated system is, then, really to be faster because of the slickness of
communication that becomes possible. The very structure of the system accelerates
that compression of time. This design feature of networks, in which winners take
more and more, is why gates, and their careful use, will become the most dramatic
lever for business, research or international politics in coming years. It also explains
why our modern gates are different than older ones. Why it is so damn costly to
leave them; why mastery of them is even more insanely lucrative than Cecil Rhodes’
gold mines. Think of the old industrial age power games for a moment: Britain and
Germany tried to match each other with their industrial output during their fatal
competitive sprint 150 years ago; but imagine if network effects obtained? If
Britain’s initial head start in the industrial revolution had given them 90% global
trade share? Germany would never have even tried to compete. They would have
been the Friendster of the 20 Century: Isolated, slow-growing, powerless and
finally consumed by the winning system.

Networks crave gates. Once a billion people were connected together, of course
there was going to be something like Facebook, a Gateland where they could link
one to another in ever-thicker cascades of connection. Once everyone could record
and watch and share videos, something like YouTube was inevitable. As we try to
picture the world ahead of us, as we try to ask what tools of power we can acquire to
twist this dangerous landscape into something we can manage and predict and
control, we must ask of it: What does it want? The world wants a protocol for the
fast exchange of money. It wants a basic language protocol. It wants a place to swap
information about IT security holes. It wants instant translation systems to replace
the need to learn to English or Chinese or Spanish so the world can move yet faster. |
believe it wants certain sorts of alliances, a particular type of superpower and even
craves a new form of politics. For any nation that controls these gates, there is a
possibility to use that position to create still more gatekept platforms, to shape the
protocols that tie platforms together in the way roads or jet planes link the physical
world. This is the iron law of Gateland: Connectivity is power. Which means that
gatekeeping is, at the end of the day, our most powerful point of a control.

163

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018395
