B. What do they do with their money? They support right wing Republican candidates for all
organizations -- attorneys general, Senate, House and state political figures. This is where it gets
interesting. Freedom Partners is thought of as the Koch bank. Guess who ran this? Marc Short. It
controls about $250 mn in funds for political activity. Guess who employed Marc Short as chief of
staff? Indiana Governor Mike Pence. Guess who then employed him as chief of staff? President-elect
Trump. Matt Lloyd is in charge of communications and strategy for VP-elect Pence -- he came from
Koch Industries. Governor Pence was a frequent attendee of the secretive semi-annual meetings of
the Koch Brothers. Guess who raised more than $100 million for Freedom Partners? Don McGahn.
Guess who is the new White House Counsel for President-elect Trump? Don McGahn. (McGahn was
embroiled in the Tom Delay scandal in the 2000s). Guess who had two companies which had Koch
Brothers as investors and whose chief of staff (Chenowith) came from the Koch world? The new CIA-
designate chief Mike Pompeo. (Pompeo's Kansas campaign received a $900,000 donation from Koch).
Guess who gave $1 mn to Americans for Prosperity? Education secretary designate Betsy Devos.
Guess who has written the strategy paper for the Department of Energy transition? Tom Pyle -- He is
affiliated with the Koch Industries Office of federal Affairs and the Institute for Energy Research.
Guess who was caught up in a Koch Industries scandal for a petrochemical port project (with a Koch
affiliated Messr. Henneberry)? Governor Nikki Haley who is UN Ambassador designate.

C. Advisors are ALL Koch-related. Here is where it gets fun. Former campaign advisor Corey
Lewandowski came from KochLand. Rebekah Mercer is part of Koch and and gave $2.5 mn to
Freedom Partners. Kellyanne Conway has connections to Pence from way back and is connected to
Steve Bannon through the Center for National Policy. Trump deputy campaign manager David Bossie
came from Citizens United. The Director of Coalitions for Trump is named Alan Cobb -- he came from
Americans for Prosperity. Daren Selnick is a transition advisor and he came from Concerned
Veterans. Others on the Trump team who came from Kochland include Stuart Jolly, Eli Miller, Scott
Hagerstrom and Matt Ciepielowski.

=e,

3. BUY the hell out of Russia -- Exxon Rex is a cabinet trifecta for Koch Brothers.

A. And there's Exxon Rex. Any contribution from Exxon received money from Koch -- and vice versa.
Rex Tillerson is worth $151 million and is leaving Exxon next year. He seems to have accepted
secretary of state position. He inked a deal worth $300 billion in oil and gas exploration in 2012. (For
that, he received the highest civilian honour bestowed by Russia). This will be a boom for Koch
Industries as the sanctions against Russia are lifted. (Thank you Uncle Vlad for interfering in the
elections). This will be a boom for Russia -- for equities, FX and bonds. It is clear that sanctions
against Russia will be lifted regardless of whether Russia interfered in the elections. (Clinton made
this a campaign issue and still lost!).

B. Anyone who thinks this will be reversed by Greenpeace or other green organization is kidding
themselves. The Senate and House is Republican. Majority parties control all committees so they
control the agenda. The agenda is set. These guys are geniuses with the news cycle. And the vast
array of think tanks controlled by the Koch Brothers (most of them) allows them to control the news
cycle as well as the opinion pages of newspapers. The web on control on public opinion from the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026044
