44 3 A Patternist Philosophy of Mind

analysis 4. The notion of “focused cognitive process” will be exemplified more thoroughly below,
but in essence what is meant is a cognitive process that begins with a small number of items
(drawn from memory) as its focus, and has as its goal discovering something about these
items, or discovering something about something else in the context of these items or in a way
strongly biased by these items. This is different from a global cognitive process whose goal is
more broadly-based and explicitly involves all or a large percentage of the knowledge in an
intelligent system’s memory store.

Among the focused cognitive processes are those governed by the so-called cognitive schematic
implication

Context \ Procedure — Goal

where the Context involves sensory, episodic and/or declarative knowledge; and attentional
knowledge is used to regulate how much resource is given to each such schematic implication in
memory. Synergy among the learning processes dealing with the context, the procedure and the
goal is critical to the adequate execution of the cognitive schematic using feasible computational
resources. This sort of explicitly goal-driven cognition plays a significant though not necessarily
dominant role in CogPrime, and is also related to production rules systems and other traditional
AI systems, as will be articulated in Chapter 4.

The synthesis and analysis processes as we conceive them, in the general framework of SGS
theory, are as follows. First, synthesis, as shown in Figure 3.1, is defined as

synthesis: Iteratively build compounds from the initial component pool using the combinators,
greedily seeking compounds that seem likely to achieve the goal.
Or in more detail:

1. Begin with some initial components (the initial “current pool’), an additional set of com-
ponents identified as “combinators” (combination operators), and a goal function

2. Combine the components in the current pool, utilizing the combinators, to form product
components in various ways, carrying out reductions as appropriate, and calculating relevant
quantities associated with components as needed

3. Select the product components that seem most promising according to the goal function,
and add these to the current pool (or else simply define these as the current pool)

4, Return to Step 2

And analysis, as shown in Figure 3.2, is defined as

analysis: Iteratively search (the system’s long-term memory) for component-sets that com-
bine using the combinators to form the initial component pool (or subsets thereof), greedily
seeking component-sets that seem likely to achieve the goal

or in more detail:

1. Begin with some components (the initial “current pool”) and a goal function

2. Seek components so that, if one combines them to form product components using the
combinators and then performs appropriate reductions, one obtains (as many as possible
of) the components in the current pool

4 In [GPPGO6], what is here called “analysis” was called “backward synthesis”, a name which has some advantages
since it indicated that what’s happening is a form of creation; but here we have opted for the more traditional
analysis/synthesis terminology

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012960
