There is no question that the shift to value-based reimbursement models will have a major
impact on the economics of healthcare. Payers will be looking for ways to significantly reduce
costs in all areas where a range of viable lower cost solutions are available, and will force
providers to use those wherever possible through increasingly restrictive reimbursement
policies. As an example, one area where this type of change has been implemented successfully
for years is in the increased use of generic drugs, where payers no longer offer unrestricted
reimbursement for the use of high cost, premium priced branded biopharmaceutical products
that deliver only minor benefits in terms of convenience, or slight improvements in efficacy to
small percentages of patients. This type of value-based review is now going on in all areas
within healthcare, and is resulting in changes that are having a major impact on what services
and products are selected, and who bears what percentage of the cost of that selection.

At the same time that payers and other ‘at-risk’ organizations are looking for any and all
opportunities to move to lower cost alternatives, they are also continuing to invest in the
adoption of innovative new therapeutics which can both improve outcomes and deliver
quantifiable value, even when considering their additional costs and premium pricing. The
products that receive this type of support from payers are ones that are focused on addressing
truly unmet medical needs and deliver significant efficacy or safety benefits to patients, when
compared to existing standards of care. They are also usually based on new technologies that
enable novel approaches to the treatment of diseases and disorders. There are vast areas in
medicine where large unmet medical needs exist and where scientific and technological
progress is enabling entirely new approaches to addressing these. Where these intersect are
areas of great opportunity for experienced investors.

RAPID ACCELERATION IN INNOVATION IN TARGETED SECTORS

Biopharmaceuticals:

Decades of government and industry investment in the study of the biological and genetic basis
of disease is translating into a steady stream of new products with improved efficacy and
decreased toxicity, and these are transforming how many high-morbidity diseases can be
treated. Through this growing body of work, a much deeper understanding of the biochemical
pathways underlying complex diseases is emerging, which is leading to identification of many
new molecular targets for drug therapy. This targeted approach to pharmaceutical R&D is a
fundamental change from the historical process that relied on large-scale, random screening of
drug candidates for activity. A whole new generation of products targeting diseases at the
molecular level is emerging and these offer much higher levels of efficacy and improved safety
to specific groups of patients whose disease is well characterized by biomarkers that are tightly
linked to the mechanisms of the underlying disease. This more targeted approach to discovery
and development offers important benefits to all constituents, which ultimately improves the
investment environment in biopharmaceuticals.

Oncology (i.e., cancer) is one therapeutic area where some of the most significant progress has
been made recently. Targeted therapies in certain indications in oncology now provide for
more effective treatments with fewer side effects than one-size-fits-all chemotherapy drugs. For
example, new therapies have recently been developed that target specific subsets of malignancy
through molecular targets including EGFR, HER2, and BRAF that have led to dramatic
improvement in the treatment of certain cancers (e.g., lung, pancreatic, colon, breast, melanoma,
and several hematologic cancers). It is expected that the next wave of advances will transform

27 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024038
