>99Designs (www.99designs.com) and Crowdspring (www.crowdspring.com)

I used 99Designs to get an excellent logo for www_litliberation.org in 24 hours for less than $150. I
submitted the concept, more than 50 designers worldwide uploaded their best attempts, which I could
browse, and I chose the best after suggesting a few improvements. From Crowdspring’s site: “Name
your price, name your deadline, see entries within hours and be done in just days. The average project
gets a whopping 68 entries. 25 entries or your money back.”

e » eLance ( www.elance.com ) (877—435-2623)

e > Craigslist ( www.craigslist.org )

» LIFESTYLE DESIGN IN ACTION

I’m a USS. citizen and it was impossible for my friends and relatives to track me down by phone. Enter
Skype In. It’s not new but allows you to lease a fixed U.S. (or other country) phone number which then
forwards to your Skype account. About $60/year. Within Skype you can then set up call forwarding to
ring you at your local number. You pay the rate as if you were calling from the United States to
wherever you are. I’ve used this in about 40 countries and it works like a treat. The call quality is usually
great and the convenience is amazing. http://www.skype.com/allfeatures/onlinenumber/. A caveat is to
always, ALWAYS get a local SIM card for your unlocked GSM phone. Roaming is for amateurs. A
local SIM also gets you GPRS, Edge, or 3G. Sometimes even free Wifi. Cheers, —TY KROLL

Basically I try to keep all of my tools online so that if my laptop gets stolen, I can buy a new one and
have everything up and running within 24 hours. Here are a few of the tools I use on a regular basis:

° RememberTheMilk.com has been really crucial to me keeping on top of my daily tasks.
e Freshbooks.com for online invoicing
e Highrise (http://www.highrisehg.com/) for online CRM

e Dropbox (getdropbox.com) for easy file sharing/automatic backup of critical files while on the
road

e TrueCrypt (truecrypt.org) for keeping your laptop data secure while on the road. [Tim comment:
This can also be used with a USB flash drive, and another cool feature—it provides two levels of
“plausible deniability” (hidden volumes, etc.) if someone forces you to reveal the password.]

° PBwiki.com-Wiki site that helps me keep on top of the notes and ideas that I collect as I go
through life.

e FogBugz on Demand: http://www.fogcreek.com/FogBUGZ/IntrotoOnDemand.html. It’s a “bug
tracker” aimed at software development companies, but I use it every day for both personal and

business tasks. It’s almost like a VA, as you can route your mail through it and it will help you sort
it and keep track of it. It has great features to track e-mails, and there’s a free version for two users
(me + VA!). —RB CARTER

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013920
