Many of these theories have been killed off only when some decisive experiment exposed their
incorrectness.... Thus the yeoman work in any science ... is done by the experimentalist, who
must keep the theoreticians honest.

—MICHIO KAKU, theoretical physicist and cocreator of String Field Theory, Hyperspace

Bove: than 5% of the 195,000 books published each year sell more than 5,000 copies. Teams of

publishers and editors with decades of combined experience fail more times than not. The founder of

Border’s Books lost $375 million of investor funding with WebVan.2 a nationwide grocery delivery
service. The problem? No one wanted it.

The moral is that intuition and experience are poor predictors of which products and businesses will be
profitable. Focus groups are equally misleading. Ask ten people if they would buy your product. Then
tell those who said “yes” that you have ten units in your car and ask them to buy. The initial positive
responses, given by people who want to be liked and aim to please, become polite refusals as soon as real
money is at stake.

To get an accurate indicator of commercial viability, don’t ask people if they would buy —ask them to
buy. The response to the second is the only one that matters. The approach of the NR reflects this.

Step Three: Micro-Test Your Products

Mtcro testing involves using inexpensive advertisements to test consumer response to a product

prior to manufacturing 22

In the pre-Internet era, this was done using small classified ads in newspapers or magazines that led
prospects to call a prerecorded sales message. Prospects would leave their contact information, and based
on the number of callers or response to a follow-up sales letter, the product would be abandoned or
manufactured.

In the Internet era, there are better tools that are both cheaper and faster. We’ll test the product ideas
from the last chapter on Google Adwords—the largest and most sophisticated Pay-Per-Click (PPC)
engine—in five days for $500 or less. PPC here refers to the highlighted search results that are listed
above and to the right of normal search results on Google. Advertisers pay to have these ads displayed
when people search for a certain term related to the advertisers’ product, such as “cognitive supplement,”
and are charged a small fee from $.05 to over $1 each time someone clicks through to their site. For a
good introduction to Google Adwords and PPC, visit www.google.com/onlinebusiness. For expanded
examples of the following PPC strategies, visit www.fourhourblog.com and search “PPC.”

The basic test process consists of three parts, each of which is covered in this chapter.
Best: Look at the competition and create a more-compelling offer on a basic one-to-three-page website
(one to three hours).

Test: Test the offer using short Google Adwords advertising campaigns (three hours to set up and five
days of passive observation).

Divest or Invest: Cut losses with losers and manufacture the winner(s) for sales rollout.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013908
