The reassignment means that the U.S. attorney for the Northern District of Georgia, Byung J. “BJay” Pak, will
oversee the case for the government. Pak, a former Georgia lawmaker, was appointed Atlanta’s chief federal

prosecutor by President Trump in October 2017.

The Justice Department is still under a Friday deadline for prosecutors to confer with the victims’ attorneys in
an effort to settle the case. On Feb. 22, U.S. District Judge Kenneth A. Marra in Palm Beach ruled that federal
prosecutors, under former Miami U.S. Attorney Alexander Acosta, broke the law when they concealed a plea
agreement from more than 30 underage girls in Palm Beach who had been sexually abused by Epstein, a

multimillionaire New York hedge fund manager.

Marra stopped short of voiding the agreement, which granted Epstein and an untold number of accomplices
immunity from federal prosecution for sex trafficking crimes, provided Epstein plead guilty to minor charges
in state court. At the time of the plea deal, federal prosecutors had gathered enough evidence against Epstein to

write a 53-page federal indictment, court records show.

Play Video

DurationA

12:20
The story behind a Palm Beach sex offender’s remarkable deal

The story behind a Palm Beach sex offender’s remarkable deal

Emily Michot

An investigation by the Miami Herald, “Perversion of Justice,’’ found that after Acosta met privately with one
of Epstein’s lawyers, the government agreed to seal the plea agreement so that no one — not the victims, not
even the state court judge who sentenced Epstein — would know the full extent of his crimes. Epstein, now 66,
was allowed to plead guilty to prostitution charges and served 13 months in the Palm Beach County jail, where
he was given liberal work release, and allowed to travel to New York and his private island in the Caribbean
during his subsequent house arrest. He was released in 2009, and now divides his time between New York,
Palm Beach and the U.S. Virgin Islands.

The Herald interviewed four of Epstein’s victims, who were as young as 13 at the time they were abused by
Epstein. They said they felt betrayed by state and federal prosecutors, who treated them like prostitutes instead
of victims. Two of them sued the federal government in 2008 under the Crime Victims’ Rights Act, which

grants crime victims the right to be informed about plea deals and to confer with prosecutors.

Marra, in a 33-page opinion, said prosecutors not only intentionally violated the Crime Victims’ Rights Act,
but they misled the girls into believing that the FBI’s sex trafficking case against Epstein was ongoing —

when, in fact, prosecutors had secretly closed it after sealing the plea bargain from the public record.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031408
