4.2.12
WC: 191694

Early the next morning, he called me back. “I’ve spoken to Abe Chayes,” he said referring to a
Harvard Law professor who was then serving as legal counsel in the State Department. “He’s a
bit more optimistic that cooler heads will prevail. Come into work.”

So off I went to the courthouse, where Bazelon gave us hourly updates on the Cuban Missile
Crisis until it was resolved by a deal. “I misjudged those Kennedy boys,” he told me when the
crisis was over. “Abe tells me they did good. Much better than Bay of Pigs. They were actually
quite mature. They’re quick learners. They did good.”

Just a few weeks into my clerkship, Justice Felix Frankfurter resigned from the Supreme Court,
leaving the so-called “Jewish seat” vacant. Judge Bazelon was on the short list, along with
Senator Abraham Ribicoff and Labor Secretary Arthur Goldberg. Ribicoff and Goldberg were
close friends of Bazelon. All three wanted the job, but Bazelon was regarded as too liberal,
especially on criminal justice matters, and was strongly opposed by Justice Department officials. I
vividly remember the day Goldberg was nominated. “Arthur will be a great justice, if he has the
sitzfleish to stay on the bench,” Bazelon told me. “He’s used to the active life of the labor lawyer.
Always in the middle of the action. He’s going to have to get used to the isolation, but he’s smart
as hell, and he’s always wanted to be on the Supreme Court.”

Clearly Bazelon was disappointed but he knew it would have taken a miracle to overcome the
objections of the Justice Department, and he didn’t have close connections to the Kennedys.

“Good for you. Not so good for me. And good for the country,” is how he summarized the
appointment to me a few days later. Good for me, because the new justice would certainly
consider a recommendation from his old Chicago friend, when picking his next year’s law clerks.
I immediately began to dream of clerking for the new justice when I completed my year with
Bazelon.

Judge Bazelon became Chief Judge soon after I began working for him and dominated that
important court of appeals—second only to the Supreme Court—during his long tenure. His
rival—both professionally and personally—was Judge (later Chief Justice) Warren Burger.
Bazelon was deeply committed to equality in the criminal justice system—between rich and poor,
white and black, and mentally sound and mentally ill.

These passions brought him into constant conflict with the executive and legislative branches of
government, and especially with prosecutors. He knew he could never win his battles by relying
on current public opinion, which showed little compassion for those who came into conflict with
the criminal justice system. His weapons were education and elite academic opinion. His goal
was to change minds through his opinion writing, speeches and articles. He chose his law clerks
based on their ability to assist him in these tasks. “Every case presents an opportunity to change
minds, to teach, to influence,” he would say. “The court is a bully pulpit and we must make the
most of it.” His favorite story was about the New York judge who complained, “Why does
Cardozo always get the interesting cases,” referring to the great New York Court of Appeals
Chief Judge (later Justice) who transformed tort law and other parts of the legal landscape with
his elegant and influential opinions. The point, of course, is that the cases weren’t at all
interesting until Benjamin Cardozo got his hand—or pen—on them. He turned mundane legal

5]

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017138
