New Curricula for a New Way of Teaching 93

learned in a day or in a week or a year. Professors always assume that
entering high school students need to be retaught the basics. They
may pick up the general idea but in reality the content of the subject
area is, at best, vaguely understood. What they can learn is that they
like a subject or have an interest in learning more.

The only other thing they can learn involves the 12 cognitive pro-
cesses. So let’s look at how the health sciences curriculum covers these
processes.

By explicit design, all of the health science rotations emphasize all
four of the “social processes.” The students work in teams (teamwork),
sometimes even in collaboration with other teams. The students and
teams necessarily try to influence one another, negotiate with one an-
other, and constantly have to describe their points of view and their
results. The step-by-step instructions that are part of every rotation
explicitly discuss how best to handle this. Now let’s look at four of the
rotations in detail.

INTERNAL MEDICINE

The essence of this rotation is learning about how to do diagnosis,
in this case, of liver disease. Students watch a detailed interview with
the patient, select (after some orientation) specific tests to administer,
receive the results, and report suggested diagnoses. They must com-
municate what they have discovered. So they describe the patient’s
symptoms and must analyze and discuss the causation of the patient’s
symptoms. Then they begin to plan a course of action. Planning what
to do is a major component of this rotation. To do this they must
make a judgment as a crucial part of the diagnostic work. They must
do this again as well in the ethics unit that occurs later in this rotation.
In that unit they undertake a detailed study of both medical and ethi-
cal issues in liver transplantation—which is where evaluation comes
into play. Here the students become consciously aware of their values
as they decide how to influence medical and ethical choices,

SUPER WORM

The students plan carefully for this unit (a hypothetical redesign of the
earthworm to make it even more helpful in agriculture). Hypothetical

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023839
