196 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

Look inside 2- Principia Mathematica 3 Volume Set (v. 1-3)

Principia
Mathematica

Amazon Listing for Principia Mathematica

are undervalued. When mathematicians use the letters ‘PM’, they are
usually referring to Russell and Whitehead’s Principia Mathematica
rather than the afternoon.

Hilbert’s Problems
In 1900, while Russell and Whitehead were in full flow writing out
their rules, David Hilbert was invited to deliver the annual lecture at
the International Congress of Mathematicians in Paris. He asked a
mathematician friend what subject he should pick for the talk and, in
a moment of inspiration, the friend suggested laying out a vision for
the future of mathematics. Rather than tell people how wonderful
mathematicians were, and why their discipline was the pinnacle of
human scientific endeavor, why not try modesty and list all the problems
on which they were stumped? Hilbert liked the idea and devoted his
talk to all the problems he thought mathematicians would solve in the
20 century. Hilbert’s Problems were simply an intellectual challenge.
He offered no prizes. At the turn of the 21* century, the Clay Institute
created the Millennium Prizes for solving the most important modern
mathematical problems. Each solution wins a prize of a million dollars!
There are 23 numbered Hilbert Problems in all: ten in the original
lecture and a further 13 in the written transcript. In 1928, he clarified
the 2™ and 10 problems, refining them into three distinct questions: Is
mathematics consistent, complete and decidable? Ironically this means
that Hilbert’s 23 problems actually number 24! The most important
Hilbert questions where these last three. They ask whether Russell
and Whitehead would be successful — can you write out all the rules
of mathematics and then simply calculate the answer to any problem
or derive any proof. This is known as the Decision Problem. Can you
mechanically decide any mathematical question without doubt? To
explain Hilbert’s Problems, I need to define mathematics properly.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015886
