Table of Contents

Proxy — Carvana Co,

Annual Meeting of Stockholders

Tuesday, April 23, 2019, 8:00 a.m. Pacific Daylight Time
This Proxy is Solicited on Behalf of the Board of Directors

The undersigned appoints Paul Breaux and Jonathan Allred (the “Named Proxies”)
and each of them as prowies for the undersigned, with full power of substitution,

to vole (he shares of common stock of Carvana Co., a Delaware comporation (“the
Gompany) the undersigned is entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
of the Company to be held at the 3419 East University Drive, Phoenix, AZ 85004 on
Tuesday, April 23 at 8:00 a.m. (PDT) and all adjournments thereof.

The purpose of the Annual Meeting is to fake action on the following:

1. to elect two nominees identified in the accompanying proxy stalament to
serve as directors, as recommended by the Compensation and Nominating
Committee of the board of directors of Garvana;

2. to rality the appointment of Grant Thomton LLP as Carvana's independent
registered public accounting firm for the year ending Dacember 31, 2019;

3. to consider the approval, by an advisory vote, of Carvana’s executive
compensation (i,2,, “say-on-pay” proposal)

4. to recommend, by an advisory vote, the frequency of future advisory votes
on executive compensation (i.e., “say-on-pay frequency’)

5. lo transact other business as may properly come belore the meeting or any
adjournment of tha meating.

The two directors up for re-election are: J. Danforth Quayle and Gregory Sullivan.

The Board of Directors of the Company recommends a vote “FOR all nominees
for director, FOR proposals 2 and 3, and a vote of 1 Year for proposal 4.

This proxy, when properly executed, will be voted in the manner directed
herein. I no direction is made, this proxy will be voted “FOR” all nominees
for director. In their discretion, the Named Proxies are authorized to vote
upon such other matters thal may properly come before the Annual Meeting
or any adjournment or postponement thereof.

You are encouraged to specify your choice by marking the appropriate box

(SEE REVERSE SIDE) but you need not mark any box if you wish to vote
in accordance with the Board of Directors’ recommendation. The Named

Proxies cannot vote your shares unless you sign and return this card,

ak (Pepi adojawue ay) wy uoqeod si] yen! Wunjes pur Looped oy) Je Aympoues aqeredes astajg 4

To atland the maeting and vole your shares oO
in person, please mark this box.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024373
