Century proponent of a school of Jewish ecstatic mysticism, Abraham Abulafia,
whose interpretation of the Guide and his own Commentary on the Secrets taught
that the human mind, if transformed into a “state of active intellect,” could become
one with Spirit, realizing the Kingdom of God in rational mystical experience in a
state of excitement with new ideas. The new consciousness achieves deep
knowledge of both the “upper” and “lower” realms of what he called “reality” both
spontaneously and directly. He said that without personal transformation, this
knowing is not possible.

Abulafia’s lesson was that the mundane intellect of man has the potential for
transformation into another kind of mind in a spiritualization of thought. This occurs
via developmental stages that begin with intellect and imagination and culminate in
what he called prophetic emanations. The exercises leading to this transformation
are to be strongly willed and practiced with regularity. This work results in ascension
to an ecstatic state accompanied by great intuitive powers, which Abulafia called
“prophesy.” Ibn Adret, the Chief Rabbi of Spain at the end of the Thirteenth Century,
banished Abulafia from the Country, a Century before the Spanish Inquisition
ousted all the Jews.

Following what my father said was required in the practice of Kabbalah, a
13 Century tradition of esoteric and mystical interpretations of the Scriptures, |
learned the secret meanings of each of the twenty-two letter Hebrew alphabet.
Much like the Platonic view of mathematics, that it existed before the physical
universe, these symbolic equivalences were believed to be eternal in the
transcendental realm. One of the rare written accounts of this oral tradition is in the
thirteenth-century Hebrew Book of Splendor called the Zohar which describes the
Hebrew alphabet as the heavenly code of the cosmos.

| learned that the Tegragrammaton’s repeated letter Hei, being fifth in the
Hebrew alphabet, represents the number five. In the Kabbalistic tradition, He/
implicates the functional five-partition of the human inner self or soul. The five parts
are: nefesh, instinctual drives; ruach, mood, affect and emotions; neshamah,
cognitive activities of the mind; chayah, efforts to understand and _ attain

transcendence; yechidah, experiencing the world as a cosmic unity. Later in life as

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013505
