Trump or those around him. Priebus himself could, not too helpfully, argue only that no
one had any idea how much worse all this would have been without his long-suffering
mediation among the president’s relatives, his Svengali, and Trump’s own terrible
instincts. There might be two or three debacles a day, but without Priebus’s stoic resolve,
and the Trump blows that he absorbed, there might have been a dozen more.

OOK Ok

On June 8, from a little after ten in the morning to nearly one in the afternoon, James
Comey testified in public before the Senate Intelligence Committee. The former FBI
director’s testimony, quite a tour de force of directness, moral standing, personal honor,
and damning details, left the country with a simple message: the president was likely a
fool and certainly a liar. In the age of modern media politesse, few presidents had been so
directly challenged and impugned before Congress.

Here it was, stark in Comey’s telling: the president regarded the FBI director as
working directly for him, of owing his job to him, and now he wanted something back.
“My common sense,” said Comey, “again, I could be wrong, but my common sense told
me what’s going on here is he’s looking to get something in exchange for granting my
request to stay in the job.”

In Comey’s telling, the president wanted the FBI to lay off Michael Flynn. And he
wanted to stop the FBI from pursuing its Russia-related investigation. The point could
hardly have been clearer: if the president was pressuring the director because he feared
that an investigation of Michael Flynn would damage him, then this was an obstruction of
Justice.

The contrast between the two men, Comey and Trump, was in essence the contrast
between good government and Trump himself. Comey came across as precise,
compartmentalized, scrupulous in his presentation of the details of what transpired and the
nature of his responsibility—he was as by-the-book as it gets. Trump, in the portrait
offered by Comey, was shady, shoot-from-the-hip, heedless or even unaware of the rules,
deceptive, and in it for himself.

After the hearing ended, the president told everybody he had not watched it, but
everybody knew he had. To the extent that this was, as Trump saw it, a contest between
the two men, it was as direct a juxtaposition as might be imagined. The entire point of the
Comey testimony was to recast and contradict what the president had said in his angry and
defensive tweets and statements, and to cast suspicion on his actions and motives—and to
suggest that the president’s intention was to suborn the director of the FBI.

Even among Trump loyalists who believed, as Trump did, that Comey was a phony and
this was all a put-up job, the nearly universal feeling was that in this mortal game, Trump
was quite defenseless.

7 OK Ok

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020068
