math. In a sense I didn’t really make money as much as I did create it. This
was intellectual activity of a fairly high order.”

Intellectual activity aside, he meets Helen Gurley Brown and she
makes him Cosmopolitan Magazine’s Bachelor of the Month in 1980.

“What,” I ask, “was your social life like?”

“Well, I was a playboy.”

“That’s all? Not looking to get married?”

“No. Never. I never wanted to get married. I wanted sex. I liked
women. | wanted freedom. I was attracted to the rich because of their
freedom. But I wanted also to avoid their burdens. And I didn’t want to hide.
I didn’t want to be a hypocrite. I wanted to be free. I was not remotely
ambivalent about what I wanted: to be free. That was the reason to make
money.”

His rise at Bear Sterns was a steep one. And he soon became the
protégée of Jimmy Cayne (also hired by Ace Greenberg on a whim—he met
him in a bridge game—who would go on to run Bear and to lose his fortune
in Bear’s 2006 collapse). Epstein’s leave taking or ouster from Bear is the
result of politics, envy, overreaching, or a securities violation, or...unclear.
But, no matter, he leaves in 1982 with billionaire clients, including Marvin
Davis, a real estate developer who owns Twentieth Century Fox, and Herb
Seigel, a major media investor in the 1980s. Epstein is dating Morgan
Fairchild, a television star in the 1980s rich-family soap operas, Dallas and
Falcon Crest.

Now begins the Concorde phase of his life—and the Concorde phase
of the 1980s. If the 80s are happening pell mell in New York, they’re
happening at double time and catch up speed in London. Epstein is 30 years
old and living, in Lifestyle of the Rich and Famous fashion, at English
shooting parties at country estates with Saturday night black tie dinners,
where he’s meeting the richest families in Europe.

“I don’t take it seriously,” Epstein recounts. “I’m not caught up in it.
I’m not trying to make a billion dollars. There is no ultimate goal. Or its just
to meet smart people, interesting people. But no long-range plans. Often no
short-term plans either. I would head to Kennedy and, on the theory that
most important events are serendipitous, | wouldn’t decided where I was
going until I got there.”

At the same time, he is developing a perception, or, at least a market
differentiation: the hyper wealthy had different problems than the very
wealthy. Dealing with a billion dollars was different from dealing with $100
million:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022717
