are permissible under the FCPA, they may still subject a

company or individual to sanctions. As with any expenditure,

facilitating payments may still violate the FCPA if they are The FCPA:

not properly recorded in an issuer’s books and records.

Hypothetical: Facilitating Payments

Company A is a large multi-national mining company with operations in Foreign Country, where it recently identified
a significant new ore deposit. It has ready buyers for the new ore but has limited capacity to get it to market. In order to
increase the size and speed of its ore export, Company A will need to build a new road from its facility to the port that can
accommodate larger trucks. Company A retains an agent in Foreign Country to assist it in obtaining the required permits,
including an environmental permit, to build the road. The agent informs Company A's vice president for international
operations that he plans to make a one-time small cash payment to a clerk in the relevant government office to ensure
that the clerk files and stamps the permit applications expeditiously, as the agent has experienced delays of three months
when he has not made this “grease” payment. The clerk has no discretion about whether to file and stamp the permit
applications once the requisite filing fee has been paid. The vice president authorizes the payment.

A few months later, the agent tells the vice president that he has run into a problem obtaining a necessary environmental
permit. It turns out that the planned road construction would adversely impact an environmentally sensitive and protected
local wetland. While the problem could be overcome by rerouting the road, such rerouting would cost Company A $1
million more and would slow down construction by six months. It would also increase the transit time for the ore and
reduce the number of monthly shipments. The agent tells the vice president that he is good friends with the director of
Foreign Country’s Department of Natural Resources and that it would only take a modest cash payment to the director
and the “problem would go away.” The vice president authorizes the payment, and the agent makes it. After receiving the
payment, the director issues the permit, and Company A constructs its new road through the wetlands.

Was the payment to the clerk a violation of the FCPA?

No. Under these circumstances, the payment to the clerk would qualify as a facilitating payment, since it is a one-time,
small payment to obtain a routine, non-discretionary governmental service that Company A is entitled to receive (i.e., the
stamping and filing of the permit application). However, while the payment may qualify as an exception to the FCPA’s
anti-bribery provisions, it may violate other laws, both in Foreign Country and elsewhere. In addition, if the payment is not
accurately recorded, it could violate the FCPA’s books and records provision.

Was the payment to the director a violation of the FCPA?

Yes. The payment to the director of the Department of Natural Resources was in clear violation of the FCPA, since it
was designed to corruptly influence a foreign official into improperly approving a permit. The issuance of the environmental
permit was a discretionary act, and indeed, Company A should not have received it. Company A, its vice president, and the
local agent may all be prosecuted for authorizing and paying the bribe.

168 Anti-Bribery Provisions

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022528
