JAMES PATTERSON

and he told me that it wasn't good enough. So 1 filled it out
again, and it was like three times. So I’m pretty sure he wasn't
checking into it, he was just telling me that he was. But |
think that had a lot to do with the reason I stayed there so

long, ‘cause my dream was right in front of me, you know?

And it’s so far....

- Aside from having been with [redacted], was there anybody
else that you brought to the house?

- | brought a few people. ... Because it got
Like, everyone at school knew. You know, everyone talks—

out that I did this.

D: It wasa circle, and—

V: It was a little circle, yeah. ... Not that 1 would want anybody
to get involved. ...1 brought girls 1 didn’t like and, frankly,
did not give a shit about. Girls that I knew were skanks. That
would do anything. Girls that would just, like, suck dick in
the bathroom at school. Like, not even people | was friends
with. I'd just hear a rumor about a girl and be like, “Hey, I
know a way you can make two hundred dollars. How
about...” I would tell them flat out, like, “This is what you've
Are you cool with this? Cause I'm not gonna take
told them. They all know that I got
as actually [redacted]. She took off

got to do.
you if you're not.” So |
paid to bring them. It w
her shirt. She was a little overweight, so he didn’t want any-

thing to do [with her]. She was my best friend. But, you
know, she was another story. I did care about her. But, um,

she lost her house and stuff and really needed money. She —
had—she was homeless, she had nowhere to go. So she didit —

out of desperation.

D: Did he ever hurt you?

V: Sometimes he got vic
D: Violent as in what? A
V: He pulled my hair .
pulled. Like, he—o.
you're all, like, not-
mean, like, if you’re
like, my ponytails—
would pull it to whe1
my hair, and then soi
throw me whichever
just like use a toy or
penis, though, ever. |
little, so he could pi:
throw, obviously it’s ;

t I mean, there’s been’

% able to walk, um, fr
really —nothing spec
I can’t really recall.

Nothing that I went t

getting tore up a few |

D: This is getting real pe
7 V: What, like, had I had
4 D: Okay.
EY: Um. But honest, I me;
three steady boyfrien
ever done anything w
_ 4year. So it’s not like

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019164
