58 Teaching Minds

to follow the wishes of the administration. They consider themselves
free agents. This former CEO, coming from a business where there re-
ally is someone in charge, didn’t know what to do. He talked to people
who talked to people and eventually he found me.

As a professor for 30 some odd years, I developed a healthy disre-
spect for professors as a group. They tend to lobby for keeping their
lives easy and that means, among other things, making sure they
don’t have to teach too much or teach in a way that makes them have
to work too hard. Professors always have something more important
to do than teach. I am not criticizing here. I would have been the first
to whine and wail if anyone had made me teach more than one course
every other quarter. I considered myself a researcher, also a graduate
seminar teacher, but classes with lots of students wanting to hear a
lecture? Ugh.

The college president and I had dinner and discussed what we
could do together. I said we could build any program he wanted online
as long as we didn’t need the approval of faculty to do it and we had
good experts available. He said he was the expert and we needed the
approval of no one. I said it would be expensive and he said, God will
provide. (Did I mention this school is run by the Christian Brothers?)

Two months later I found myself in front of 25 faculty in Barce-
lona as I interviewed the president about what someone would have
to know how to do in order to make them into someone whom he
would hire. He gave me a list. The faculty got to comment, but that
was about it. It was clear who was in charge.

So, we built a story-centered curriculum meant to teach practi-
cal business by creating simulated experiences. The idea is to deliver
it online around the world, using mentors who speak the students’
language. (The website is in English). No classes. No lectures. No tests.
Graduates get an MBA degree but this curriculum doesn’t have that
much in common with traditional MBA programs. The idea is to help
people launch their own business or go to work.

Students are part of teams that work to create deliverables within
a story about a situation that demands some work on their part. They
consult with their team members and use extensive background and
step-by-step help that has been created as part of the website. Men-
tors are available to answer questions and to evaluate the final work
product. The projects are large enough that students need to divide up
the work and consult with one another on how to proceed. Eventually

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023804
