yield, notwithstanding short-term uncertainty.

At the dawn of 2017, we face uncertainty, but

US equities and high yield are expensive, and
valuations no longer provide much margin of
safety and protection from the downside. Similarly,
other asset classes such as fixed income provide
negligible returns but come with downside risk,
e.g., if the incoming Trump administration’s fiscal
policy is more stimulative than we expect or if the
Federal Reserve raises interest rates at a more rapid
pace than we expect.

As we prepared our one- and five-year
annualized expected returns for this Outlook and
finalized our investment recommendations for
2017, we were struck by two observations.

First, the general recommendations and
volatility warnings in our Outlook publications
over the last several years have been similar, have
been directionally correct and have generally
added value to our clients’ portfolios. We have
continuously recommended that clients stay
invested in their strategic US equity allocation. We
have also recommended maintaining some tactical
tilts such as an allocation to high yield. Yet we
have warned clients to be prepared for bouts of
volatility. Last year, our exact message to clients
with respect to volatility was that “markets will
be volatile, so an asset class that performs well in
the first half of the year may perform particularly
poorly in the latter part of the year; however,
investors—unlike traders—should not try to time
such short-term moves.” It is very important that
clients heed this warning—not just for 2017 but
for their entire investing lives.

Exhibit 20 illustrates the point. We have
compared the performance of some of the best-
performing asset classes and sectors for the year
with the performance of those assets at their worst

The general recommendations and
volatility warnings in our Outlook
publications over the last several
years have been similar, have been
directionally correct and have

generally added value to our clients’

portfolios.

Exhibit 20: Returns in 2016
Some of the best-performing assets in 2016 experienced
significant declines before recovering.

Total Return (%)
50 @ Return Through Year-End 2016
@ Return Through 2016 Low (2/11/16)

12.0

-10

10.3

19.1 “17

S&P 500 Total Return Index Bloomberg Barclays High
Yield Energy Total Return

Index

S&P Banks Select Industry
Total Return Index

Data through December 31, 2016.
Source: Investment Strategy Group, Bloomberg.

point of the year. Energy high yield provides an
excellent example. On February 11, 2016, the
US energy high yield sector (as measured by the
Bloomberg Barclays High Yield Energy Total
Return Index) was down 19.1% year to date—one
of the worst-performing sub-asset classes at that
time. Similarly, the US bank sector (as measured by
the S&P Banks Select Industry Total Return Index)
was down 21.7% over the same period. We had
in place tactical tilts in both sectors. As oil prices
recovered, high yield energy securities rallied, with
the benchmark index ending the year up 37.4%—a
wild swing of 56 percentage points from low to
high. US banks also rallied initially in response
to prospects of higher interest rates and later in
anticipation of less regulation under a Trump
administration. The bank sector index rallied to
end the year 31.3% higher than at the start—an
equally wild swing of 53 percentage
points from low to high.

We have to be realistic: we cannot
anticipate such market swings on
a consistent basis. Therefore, it is
imperative that clients maintain a
long investment horizon, be tactical
when investment opportunities present
themselves—usually at times of extreme
stress in the financial markets—and
otherwise stay invested in the appropriate
strategic asset allocation.

Our second observation was that
our five-year annualized return forecasts

Outlook | Investment Strategy Group 21

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014554
