Precious metals

Gold (25 Jun): USD 1,573/oz (last month: USD 1,573/0z)
UBS View (gold) 6-month target: USD 1,650/oz
¢ The price outlook for gold is largely tied to quantitative easing by the Fed. Although the probability has
increased on weak US data, our base case still calls for no QE. Hence, current prices run on thin ice, in our
view. In the absence of any monetary stimulus, the gold market is likely to be oversupplied by more than
400 tons this year.
e Physical demand out of Asia remains lackluster. With the USDINR trading at a record high, the world's
second-largest gold market, India, is likely to witness a steep decline in jewelry consumption and a rather
firm increase in scrap supply. Central bank buying, estimated at 300 tons (7% of total demand) in 2012,
will not be enough to clear the market. Right incentives — i.e. temporary price setbacks — are needed to
motivate enough demand, before prices should manage to rebound towards USD 1,650/oz in 6 months.
¢ The negative stance from a absolute return perspective, should not overshadow the relative
attractiveness of the yellow metal. The higher probability of QE3 by the Fed poses an upside risk to the
gold price. Hence, we maintain our neutral position.

4 Positive scenario 6-month target: USD 1,920/oz

¢ Additional quantitative easing measures by the US Fed and the ECB are implemented, or inflation
accelerates sharply in emerging markets. This would drive the gold price towards USD 1,920/oz again.
& Negative scenario 6-month target: USD 1,250/oz

¢ A liquidity crisis would curtail financial demand and weigh on the gold price. A similar impact would
come from deflationary pressure (positive real rates), or a combined Chinese and Indian hard landing.

What we're watching Why it matters

Physical demand/supply Further INR weakness in the coming months should determine jewelry demand
from India. The health of coin and bar demand should be visible in the World
Gold Council mid-August release. After the drop in PGM production,

keeping an eye on South African PGM output is a must.

Flows & rates To judge gold-related financing deals, we track gold export/import between
Hong Kong and China. In addition we follow the latest uptick in ETF gold

holdings and futures positions in gold to proxy investment demand strength.
From an opportunity-cost perspective (real interest rate standpoint), we also

look at the upcoming meetings of the ECB on 5 July and Fed on 1 August.

36 UBS

For further information please contact CIO's asset class specialists Dominic Schnider, dominic.schnider@ubs.com or Giovanni Staunovo, giovanni.staunovo@ubs.com

Preference: neutral

Recommendations

Tactical (up to 6 months)

e In case of a conversion into gold, investors
should hold the position and target re-
conversion at the original strike level. Over
three months, we regard strike levels
around USD 1,460-1,520/oz as attractive.
With option volatility on the rise, the risk
reward for selling volatility has improved.

Strategic (1 to 2 years)

e The risks for debt monetization in the
developed world and double-digit wage
growth in China and India, the two largest
gold markets, should ensure a steady rise
in demand for gold and platinum over
time. Physically backed ETF positions allow
investors to participate effectively in
higher prices. Positive real interest rates
present a threat to this view.

Gold in INR terms and Indian gold
demand

20° ‘Standardized to 100
250

200

150

100 AP
50
0

Jan-09

Jan-10 Jan-11

M§ India's gold quarterly demand - in tons (rhs)
—Gald in USD terms (Ihs)
Gold in INR terms (Ihs)

Source: WGC, Bloomberg, UBS CIO, as of 19 June 2012

Note: Past performance is not an indication of future returns.

35

Please see important disclaimer and disclosures at the end of the document.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024170
