Healthcare’s forward PE is now down to just a 7% premium relative to the market and
nearing the valuation lows recorded in 2010-12 when the patent cliff was at its worst
and pipelines were very weak. Today pipelines are twice the size they were in 2011 and
innovation is the key to growth in the sector - pricing power remains strong in drug
categories with differentiated products.

Credit: Long Spreads in Europe and US

Europe: Long Xover short Main

Rate cuts are off the table it seems, as central banks are starting to recognise the side
effects of NIRP. This reinforces our view that a continuation of CSPP, entails that the
reach for yield will extend to those assets that have not seen it yet; long Crossover vs
iTraxx Main.

The beta outperformance has already started in the cash market. We look at synthetics
and we see that Crossover has not mirrored that performance. Even though XO has
outperformed recently, it still has further to go to close the gap vs cash market’s
performance.

loannis Angelakis thinks that rising political risks in the following twelve months are
more likely to weigh on iTraxx Main performance than Crossover, as Main has higher
concentration vs XO on names domiciled in countries with elections.

Buy 30y US IG Industrial spreads

US high-grade is the market our colleagues in Credit Strategy are most bullish into
2017. Hans Mikkelsen thinks IG corporate spread maturity curves super-flatten as global
credit investors do the twist - i.e. sell shorter maturities and buy the long end. Foreign
inflows are now concentrated in the back-end, as credit spreads have rallied while the
cost of currency hedging increased. That means that only the back end of the steep US
corporate spread curve offers enough spread to overcome the high cost of currency
hedging. The flip side is that the front end of the US credit spread curve is very
unattractive and we expect domestic and foreign investors to accelerate their selling of
shorter maturity US corporate bonds. Overall, Hans expects the 30yr corporate bond
part of the market to generate 8%-9% total returns next year.

Chart 38: High grade spread forecast Chart 39: High grade returns forecast

290
6.0

2.0

0.0

-2.0
so S © S SB A KH A A
er Ww Se ev NS &

Source: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research Source: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research

Long AT1s basket

Contingent capital continues to offer a compelling premium to European HY and lower
volatility than bank equity. The asset class also received a boost last week when the
European Commission submitted a proposal for AT1 coupons to be prioritized over
common dividends and bonuses if the bank breaches its combined buffer. This placates
one of the main concerns investors have, i.e. that banks could decide to skip a coupon
payment but maintain their dividend. The confirmation of the role of AT1s in Pillar 2
capital is another example of regulators providing clarity on how contingent capital fits
within the overall capital structure. The main short term risk for the trade is the fate of
the Italian banks recap, so we will be watching closely to see how that develops.

HG Spread (bps) ——#— Forecast wExcess Return (%)

= Total Return (%)
5.2

20 Global Cross Asset Strategy - Year Ahead | 30 November 2016

BankofAmerica <2”
Merrill Lynch

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014451
