4.2.12
WC: 191694

rear there was a tiny back porch, a yard and a garage. Since we had no car, we rented the garage
to another cousin who used it to store the toys he sold wholesale.

We were not poor. We always had food. But we couldn’t afford any luxuries, such as
restaurants. We passed down clothing from generation to generation and ate a lot of “leftovers”.
(Remember the comedian who said “we always ate leftovers—nobody has ever found the
“original” meal.) My mother has always said we were “comfortable.” (The same comedian told
about the Jewish man who was hit by a car, and was laying on the ground; when the ambulance
attendant asked him “are you comfortable,” he replied, “I make a living.’’)

The center of our home was the stoop in front of the house. We sat on it, played stoop ball on it,
jumped from it and slid down the smooth slides on each side of it. It was like a personal
playground. On nice days, everyone was outside, especially before the advent of television. We
even listened to the radio--Brooklyn Dodger baseball games, the Lone Ranger, Can You Top
This?, The Shadow, Captain Midnight, and The Arthur Godfrey Show--while sitting on
the stoop, with the radio connected to an inside socket by a long, frayed extension cord. We ate
lunch on the stoop on days off from school, had our milk and cookies on the stoop when we got
back from school, traded jokes, and even did our homework on the stoop. Mostly, we just sat on
the stoop and talked among ourselves and to passing neighbors, who knew where to find us. In
those days, nobody called ahead—phone calls were expensive. They just dropped by.

In front of the stoop was what we called the gutter. (Today it is referred to as the street.)
The gutter was part of our playground since cars rarely drove down our street. We played punch
ball in the gutter, stickball in the driveway and basketball in front of the garage--shooting at a rim
screwed to an old ping pong table that was secured to the roof of the garage by a couple of two
by fours.

We had no room to play indoors, so we had to use the areas around the house as our play area.
Our house became the magnet for my friends because we had a stoop, a hoop and an area in front
of our stoop with few trees to hinder the punched ball. (A ball that hit a tree was called a
“hindoo”—probably a corruption of “hinder.’’)

The stereotype of the Brooklyn Jewish home during the immediate post WWII era was one filled
with great books, classical music, beautiful art prints and intellectual parents forcing knowledge
into their upwardly mobile male children aspiring to become doctors, teachers, lawyers and
businessmen. (The daughters were also taught to be upwardly mobile by marrying the doctors,
etc.)

My home could not have been more different--at least externally. The living room book shelves
were filled with inexpensive knickknacks (chachkas). The only books were a faux leather yellow
dictionary that my parents got for free by subscribing to Coronet Magazine. When I was in
college, they briefly subscribed to the Reader's Digest Condensed Books. There was, of course, a
Chumash (Hebrew bible) and half dozen prayer books (siddurs and machsers). I do not recall

17

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017104
