TTERSON

y. And that I was named as an
llionaire what could happen to
sed of sexual misconduct. And
settle a lawsuit or pay money in
being mentioned or revealed. I
| didn’t —1 didn’t ask about this.
2n corroborated the fact that she
rything she had said to me.

at she was absolutely correct in

to you?

sstion. I was very —I wasn’t sure,
ot his wife on the phone, Abigail
\at the only billionaire in Colum-
2d Too and who owned Victoria's
had met Leslie Wexner on two
ife. I called Abigail on the phone
it to know that there is an extor-
nst your husband by unscrupu-
” And she said, “Oh, we're aware
_in contact with us,” which sur

nt] was confirmation of that. 7 q
he chronology of that. I then was

id out she was absolutely correct 3

t interviewed on ABC television. 5
client, Brad Edwards, had sent a 4
1 the area urging them to watch
:duled to be on three television
en, it was [the] Good Day Sho s

Firtuy Ricw

the evening news, and the show Nightline. ...1 then was in
communication with ABC and helped to persuade them that
they would be putting false information on the air if they
allowed Virginia Roberts to tell her false story. So I was able
to corroborate that. I then also corroborated the fact that she
had never mentioned me when her boyfriend appeared on
television and publicly stated that she had never mentioned
me in any of her description[s] of people who she had sexual
contact with. So I was then completely satisfied that Rebecca
was telling me the complete truth. And that in my view, there
was an extortion plot directed against Leslie Wexner, a crimi-
nal extortion plot directed against Leslie Wexner, and that
your clients were involved in that extortion plot.

: Let's see if we can make sure that we're understanding one
another, sir, Do you recognize that there’s a distinction
between Virginia Roberts having met you, having been sexu-
ally abused by you on multiple occasions, but not wanting to
name you as opposed to Virginia Roberts never having met
you and never having been sexually abused by you...? Are
those two things different in your mind?

: Not in the context of this case. Because Virginia Roberts said

that she was going to seek justice from everybody that had

abused her. And if she didn’t want to name me, I think the
inference is inescapable that I was not among those people

that she had had any sexual contact with. So that was cer-
tainly the inference I drew. ...

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022160
