source in law enforcement, however, Epstein was allowed to submit a report by his private psychologist, Dr. Stephen Alexander of Palm
Beach, Florida, whose information.

The Daily Beast’s second article provided details about Epstein’s systematic abuse of underage girls at his Palm Beach mansion, where
members of his staff allegedly recruited and paid a parade of teenagers, to perform daily massages that
devolved into masturbation, groping, and sometimes full-blown sexual contact. It also revealed a monetary relationship between Epstein
and Jean Luc Brunel, a frequent visitor to whom he gave $1 million around the same time that Brunel was starting his MC2 modeling
agency. Some of the young girls MC2 recruited from overseas—often from Eastern Europe and South America—are known to have been
passengers on Epstein’s private jets.

The U.S. Attorney General’s Office in Florida says that it is against policy to confirm or deny the existence of an investigation. Jeffrey
Epstein’s lawyer, Jack Goldberger, says he has no knowledge of an ongoing probe, and he told The Daily Beast, Jeffrey Epstein has fully
complied with all state and federal requirements that arise from the prior proceedings in Palm Beach. There are no pending civil lawsuits.
There are not and should not be any pending criminal investigations, given Mr. Epstein’s complete fulfillment of all the terms of his non-
prosecution agreement with the federal government.

Conchita Sarnoff has developed multimedia communication programs for Fortune 500 companies and has produced three current-events

debate TV re rckig The Americas Forum, From Beirut to Kabul, and a segment for The Oppenheimer Report.

0
#2 bruce

e@ Registered User
x |x xX x x |x x

e Group: Members

e@ Posts: 11113

e Joined: 12-August 08
Posted 02 August 2010 - 12:59 AM
These slugs leave slime wherever they go.america is owned by these pigs.filthy pigs.
0

His 2fe Ie fs 2s 2 24s ois 2fe 2s 2fe 2s of 24s ois 2fe ois 24s 2fs 2s 2c ois 2fe ois fe 2s fe ofc ois 2fe ois 2fe ois fe ofc ois 2fe ois fe ois fe 2s ois ofc ois 2fe 2s fe 2c ois 2c ok 2s ois 2 2k ok 2 ok

The information contained in this communication 1s
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of

Jeffrey Epstein

Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited
and may be unlawful. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and
destroy this communication and all copies thereof,
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029627
