J.S. Private-Equity Tax Change Doubtful This Year, Says Carlyle Co... http://online.wsj.com/news/articles/SB 1000 14240527023038013045...

| of 2

Should you be sitting in cash right now?
If you have a $500,000 portfolio, download the latest report by Forbes columnist Ken Fisher's firm. It tells you where we

think the market is headed and why. This must-read report includes research and analysis you won't find anyplace else.
Don’t miss it! Click Here to Download Your Report! FISHER INVESTMENTS

Dow Jones Reprints: This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. To order presentation-ready copies for distribution to your colleagues, clients or
customers, use the Order Reprints tool at the bottom of any article or visit www.djreprints.com

« Seea sample reprint in PDF format. « Order a reprint of this article now

MARKETS

U.S. Private-Equity Tax Change Doubtful This Year,
Says Carlyle Co-Founder

Suggested Reform Could Increase Taxes on Private-Equity Profits

By MIKE SPECTOR
Feb. 26, 2014 5:06 a.m. ET

BERLIN— Carlyle Group LP co-founder David Rubenstein said U.S. lawmakers are unlikely to take up
legislation this year that could potentially increase taxes on deal profits reaped by private-equity
managers.

Mr. Rubenstein's comments came after the chairman of the U.S. House Ways and Means Committee,
Republican Dave Camp of Michigan, said Congress should clean up the treatment of private-equity
firms' share of deal profits, called “carried interest. These profits are currently treated as capital gains and
taxed at a lower rate than ordinary income.

We can clean up provisions like carried interest that allow certain private-equity firms to get the
investment-income tax rate on what anyone else would call normal wage income,” Mr. Camp said in an
opinion piece published on Wednesday in The Wall Street Journal outlining a series of tax-reform
proposals.

 Mareceorm Superkiaturn Canferenc’ ~~ But Mr. Rubenstein, often viewed by private-equity watchers

TPG ‘Contemplating’ Going Public as an authority on national politics since his firm is based in

Apollo Weighs Investing in Debt Washington, said various factors would likely prevent any

Kravis Warns on Debt Levels measures affecting buyout firms from taking hold any time
soon.

Montana Democrat Max Baucus, previously the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, was just
confirmed as the U.S. ambassador to China, lowering the chances that chamber will take up such
legislation, Mr. Rubenstein said. In addition, a term limit will force Mr. Camp to relinquish his committee
chairmanship in the House next year, he said.

It's unlikely that will get into law, Mr. Rubenstein said of Mr. Camp's proposal before an audience at the
SuperReturn International private-equity conference in Germany's capital. I don't think there is likely to be
any tax reform legislation passed by this Congress at all.”

Private-equity firm managers, including Mr. Rubenstein and founders of other large buyout firms, have
argued that carried interest they receive after investing in a company and later selling it should be treated
as a capital gain. Proponents of taxing these profits at a higher rate contend the money is compensation

2/27/2014 9:16 AM
HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026545
