ultimately, the NFL draft. Choices obviously involved more than height, weight, time
in the 40-yard dash and performance in motor coordination tasks. The players
behavior, carefully studied on the field, in multiple camera angle game films, direct
and collateral interviews and observations under game conditions constituted a high
level of selective pressure that brought with it the emergence of characteristic
personality types. Tens to hundreds of thousands of candidates are winnowed down
to several hundred highly paid players in this selective process.

Distinctive personality patterns accompany success at a particular position.
Structure loving, politically more conservative, choreographed in detail and
repeatedly rehearsed, offensive players keep their lockers more organized and tidy.
More rebellious, resentful of structure, politically more libertarian, thematically
instructed but principally opportunistic, defensive players, particularly linemen and
linebacker’s lockers had messy lockers. Defensive team players were most often in
trouble with the law. Offensive lineman including centers, guards, tackles and some
tight ends tend to be patiently enduring and tenacious, their aggression taking the
form of stubbornness. This contrasts with the temperamental explosiveness of the
defensive line and linebackers. We could speak of the volubility of centers, the loyal
and caring kindness of offensive tackles, the narcissistic exhibitionism of wide
receivers, the murderous rage of the defensive end, the sullen and paranoid
depressiveness of the defensive back, the joyfully impulsive unpredictability of
broken field running backs and the good citizenship egolessness of the blocking
fullback. Some quarterbacks lead and play fearlessly in a religious state of grace,
some are members of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes. Others lead as
fearlessly, but in the style of an unconscionably calm psychopathic bank robbing
professional.

Influenced by our findings, the San Diego Chargers drafted the Hall of Fame
quarterback and one time ABC Monday Night Football commentator, Dan Fouts.
Skinny and hurt several times during his college years as a quarterback in Oregon,
he was passed over in the NFL draft until the third round. The scouts “knock” on him
was that they thought that he lacked psychological and physical toughness; the

ability to get up after a hit and to ignore the on coming tons of defensive linemen

39

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013539
