4.2 Symbolic Cognitive Architectures 59

sentational and computational power, in theory), in practice symbolic architectures tend to be
weak in learning, creativity, procedure learning, and episodic and associative memory. Decades
of work in this tradition have not resolved these issues, which has led many researchers to
explore other options. A few of the more important symbolic cognitive architectures are:

e SOAR [LRN87], a classic example of expert rule-based cognitive architecture designed to
model general intelligence. It has recently been extended to handle sensorimotor functions,
though in a somewhat cognitively unnatural way; and is not yet strong in areas such as
episodic memory, creativity, handling uncertain knowledge, and reinforcement learning.

e ACT-R [AL03] is fundamentally a symbolic system, but Duch classifies it as a hybrid sys-
tem because it incorporates connectionist-style activation spreading in a significant role; and
there is an experimental thoroughly connectionist implementation to complement the pri-
mary mainly-symbolic implementation. Its combination of SOAR-style “production rules”
with large-scale connectionist dynamics allows it to simulate a variety of human psycholog-
ical phenomena, but abstract reasoning, creativity and transfer learning are still missing.

e EPIC [RCKO]], a cognitive architecture aimed at capturing human perceptual, cognitive
and motor activities through several interconnected processors working in parallel. The
system is controlled by production rules for cognitive processors and a set of perceptual
(visual, auditory, tactile) and motor processors operating on symbolically coded features
rather than raw sensory data. It has been connected to SOAR for problem solving, planning
and learning,

e ICARUS [Lan05], an integrated cognitive architecture for physical agents, with knowledge
specified in the form of reactive skills, each denoting goal-relevant reactions to a class of
problems. The architecture inclides a number of modules: a perceptual system, a planning
system, an execution system, and several memory systems. Concurrent processing is absent,
attention allocation is fairly crude, and uncertain knowledge is not thoroughly handled.

e SNePS (Semantic Network Processing System) [SE07] is a logic, frame and network-based
knowledge representation, reasoning, and acting system that has undergone over three
decades of development. While it has been used for some interesting prototype experi-
ments in language processing and virtual agent control, it has not yet been used for any
large-scale or real-world application.

e Cyc [LG90] is an AGI architecture based on predicate logic as a knowledge representation,
and using logical reasoning techniques to answer questions and derive new knowledge from
old. It has been connected to a natural language engine, and designs have been created
for the connection of Cye with Albus’s 4D-RCS [AMOI]. Cyc’s most unique aspect is the
large database of commonsense knowledge that Cycorp has accumulated (millions of pieces
of knowledge, entered by specially trained humans in predicate logic format); part of the
philosophy underlying Cyc is that once a sufficient quantity of knowledge is accumulated in
the knowledge base, the problem of creating human-level general intelligence will become
much less difficult due to the ability to leverage this knowledge.

While these architectures contain many valuable ideas and have yielded some interesting results,
we feel they are incapable on their own of giving rise to the emergent structures and dynamics
required to yield humanlike general intelligence using feasible computational resources. However,
we are more sanguine about the possibility of ideas and components from symbolic architectures
playing a role in human-level AGI via incorporation in hybrid architectures.

We now review a few symbolic architectures in slightly more detail.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012975
