3)

4)

Cee

the FISC in October—but Steele improperly concealed from and lied to the FBI about
those contacts.

b) Steele’s numerous encounters with the media violated the cardinal rule of source
handling—maintaining confidentiality—and demonstrated that Steele had become a
less than reliable source for the FBI.

Before and after Steele was terminated as a source, he maintained contact with DOJ via
then-Associate Deputy Attorney General Bruce Ohr, a senior DOJ official who worked
closely with Deputy Attorneys General Yates and later Rosenstein. Shortly after the
election, the FBI began interviewing Ohr, documenting his communications with Steele.
For example, in September 2016, Steele admitted to Ohr his feelings against then-
candidate Trump when Steele said he “was desperate that Donald Trump not get
elected and was passionate about him not being president.” This clear evidence of
Steele’s bias was recorded by Ohr at the time and subsequently in official FBI files—but
not reflected in any of the Page FISA applications.

a) During this same time period, Ohr’s wife was employed by Fusion GPS to assist in
the cultivation of opposition research on Trump. Ohr later provided the FBI with all
of his wife’s opposition research, paid for by the DNC and Clinton campaign via
Fusion GPS. The Ohrs’ relationship with Steele and Fusion GPS was inexplicably
concealed from the FISC. :

According to the head of the FBI’s counterintelligence division, Assistant Director Bill

Priestap, corroboration of the Steele dossier was in its “infancy” at the time of the initial

Page FISA application. After Steele was terminated, a source validation report conducted

by an independent unit within FBI assessed Steele’s reporting as only minimally

corroborated. Yet, in early January 2017, Director Comey briefed President-elect Trump

on a summary of the Steele dossier, even though it was—according to his June 2017

testimony—‘“salacious and unverified.” While the FISA application relied on Steele’s

past record of credible reporting on other unrelated matters, it ignored or concealed his
anti-Trump financial and ideological motivations. Furthermore, Deputy Director

McCabe testified before the Committee in December 2017 that no surveillance warrant

would have been sought from the FISC without the Steele dossier information.

UNCLASSIFIED

: oe
. *

a cae ial
PROPERTY OF THE U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026252
