58 4 Brief Survey of Cognitive Architectures

CogPrime represents a significantly more effective approach to embodied human-like general
intelligence. In our treatment of emergentist architectures, we pay particular attention to devel-
opmental robotics architectures, which share considerably with CogPrime in terms of underlying
philosophy, but differ via not integrating a symbolic “language and inference” component such
as CogPrime includes.

In brief, we believe that the hybrid approach is the most pragmatic one given the current state
of AI technology, but that the emergentist approach gets something fundamentally right, by
focusing on the emergence of complex dynamics and structures from the interactions of simple
components. So CogPrime is a hybrid architecture which (according to the cognitive synergy
principle) binds its components together very tightly dynamically, allowing the emergence of
complex dynamics and structures in the integrated system. Most other hybrid architectures are
less tightly coupled and hence seem ill-suited to give rise to the needed emergent complexity. The
other hybrid architectures that do possess the needed tight coupling, such as MicroPsi [Bac09],
strike us as underdeveloped and founded on insufficiently powerful learning algorithms.

Cognitive architectures

Memory

i Memory 3 f Memory :
|» Rule-based memory i -Glotalisincnoy © Localist-distributed
i © Graph-based memory =: © Localist memory ba Symbolic-connectionist i

Learning Learning Learning
* = Inductive learning «= Associative leaming iis Bottom-up learning
i « =©Analytical learning : ¢ Competitive learning Top-down leaming

Fig. 4.1: Duch’s simplified taxonomy of cognitive architectures. CogPrime falls into the “hy-
brid” category, but differs from other hybrid architectures in its focus on synergetic interactions
between components and their potential to give rise to appropriate system-wide emergent struc-
tures enabling general intelligence.

4.2 Symbolic Cognitive Architectures

A venerable tradition in AI focuses on the physical symbol system hypothesis [New90], which
states that minds exist mainly to manipulate symbols that represent aspects of the world or
themselves. A physical symbol system has the ability to input, output, store and alter symbolic
entities, and to execute appropriate actions in order to reach its goals. Generally, symbolic
cognitive architectures focus on “working memory” that draws on long-term memory as needed,
and utilize a centralized control over perception, cognition and action. Although in principle
such architectures could be arbitrarily capable (since symbolic systems have universal repre-

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012974
