Michael Cembalest
Chief Investment Officer

[Note a] Austin Long at Columbia University walked me through the geodynamics of the MOP and how many would be needed to
penetrate the Fordow facility. His calculations are a function of soil hardness/density, the weapon’s mass and impact velocity, the
shape of its cone, and the percentage of each penetration that collapses back in as “spoil”, blocking the hole created by previous
weapons. The estimate of 4 MOPs is based on the assumption of a modest amount of gravel spoilage, and less dense soil. Higher soil
density and gravel estimates could require 2-4 more bombs.

BLS Bureau of Labor Statistics

BEA _ Bureau of Economic Analysis

BP British Petroleum

BTU _ British Thermal Unit

CERA Cambridge Energy Research Associates

EIA US Energy Information Agency

E&P Exploration and Production

GAO — Government Accountability Office

IEA International Energy Agency

OECD Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OPEC = Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

SWIFT Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication

The material contained herein is intended as a general market commentary. Opinions expressed herein are those of Michael Cembalest and may differ from those of
other J.P. Morgan employees and affiliates. This information in no way constitutes J.P. Morgan research and should not be treated as such. Further, the views
expressed herein may differ from that contained in J.P. Morgan research reports. The above summary/prices/quotes/statistics have been obtained from sources deemed
to be reliable, but we do not guarantee their accuracy or completeness, any yield referenced is indicative and subject to change. Past performance is not a guarantee of
future results. References to the performance or character of our portfolios generally refer to our Balanced Model Portfolios constructed by J.P. Morgan. It is a proxy
for client performance and may not represent actual transactions or investments in client accounts. The model portfolio can be implemented across brokerage or

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031150
