Researchers have measured
human brain responses using a variety of
methods such as functional magnetic
resonance imaging (fMRI), which
demonstrate reliable effects of changes
in neural activity by changes in blood
flow. Although slower to respond than
measures of electrical activity, {MRI
provides evidence about where neural
activity in the human brain occurs. This
kind of research does show that
observing action produces activity in
areas of the human brain more typically
associated with executing action. While
there may be some disagreement about
which motor areas of the human brain
are active while observing or imitating
action and how these would correspond
to areas in the monkey brain, there is
good agreement that the human motor
system responds for observation and
imitation of action.’

There is quite a difference
between recognizing an action and
understanding that action. We can see a
hand move through space with an open
palm oriented with the flat of the palm
moving toward the surface of an object
and predict where the hand will strike
the object and that it will apply force to
the surface of that object. But
understanding the same general action as
pushing a door open with the intent to
enter and slapping a person in the face is
quite different. A ball can be thrown in a
game of catch or as a missile intended to
do harm. The actions may be similar but
the intentions are different. Therefore it
is important that some researchers have
argued that mirror neurons respond to
the intention as well as the action.”
However, to date there has been no clear
evidence that such neurons respond to
intention -- just that the sight of the
action of reaching without an object to
grasp, the sight of the object alone, and

Page |80

the sight of the action with the object
present show different patterns of brain
response. The fact that such different
visual experiences lead to different
patterns of brain activity does not
provide clear evidence that intentions or
goals are somehow part of the mirror
neuron response to observed action.

Understanding spoken language as
action understanding

The potential ambiguity of action
is perhaps clearest if we consider
language. Talking is a form of action and
understanding speech might be a form of
action understanding. In talking, mouth
movements are made in such a way as to
create sounds that will have some affect
on the listener, as discussed in Howard
Nusbaum’s chapter. Listeners must
understand what was meant by making
those sounds. However, if someone says,
“Tt’s hot in here,” or “You are a great
friend,” there can be ambiguity about the
meaning. Such sentences could be
straightforward observations as they
seem to be or they could be something
very different. We can ask to have a
window opened or we can make a
negative social comment using exactly
the same sentences.

Nonetheless, there is good reason
to believe that the human action system
is involved in understanding speech as
well as producing it. While some
ambiguities in speech or behavior simply
cannot be resolved without broader
contextual knowledge, the motor system
may be important in understanding. If
you try to have a conversation in a noisy
bar, looking at your friend talking makes
it easier to understand what is being said.
We have shown that the motor system
contributes to this process of recognizing
speech. When listeners can see
someone’s face while talking, mouth

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021326
