scales up precisely based on weight: If you compare a mouse, a human and an elephant on a logarithmic graph,
you find with every doubling of average weight, a species gets 25% more efficient—and lives 25% longer. This
speaks to everything from how long we can expect to live to how many hours of sleep we need. Fundamentally,
he has proven, the issue has to do with the fractal geometry of the networks that supply energy and remove
waste from the organism's body.

West's work has been game-changing for biologists, but then he made the even bolder move of exploring his
work's applicability to cities. Cities, too, are constellations of networks and laws of scalability relate with eerie
precision to them. For every doubling in a city's size, the city needs 15% less road, electrical wire, and gas
stations to support the same population. More amazingly, for every doubling in size, cities produce 15% more
patents and more wealth, as well as 15% more crime and disease. This broad pattern lays the groundwork for a
new science of cities.

Recently, West has applied his revolutionary work on cities and biological life to the business world. This
investigation has led to powerful insights into why some companies thrive while others fail. The implications of
these discoveries are far-reaching, and are just beginning to be explored.

Scale is a thrilling scientific adventure story about the elemental natural laws that bind us together in simple but
profound ways. Through the brilliant mind of Geoffrey West, we can envision how cities, companies and
biological life alike are dancing to the same simple, powerful tune, however diverse and unrelated they are to
each other.

GEOFFREY WEST, a theoretical physicist, is distinguished professor and past president at Santa Fe Institute.
His primary interests have been in fundamental questions in physics and biology. West is a Senior Fellow at Los
Alamos National Laboratory and a distinguished professor at the Sante Fe Institute, where he served as the
president from 2005-2009. He has been featured in many publications world-wide including the New York
Times, Nature, Science, the Financial Times, Wired and Scientific American, and has participated in television
productions including Nova, the National Geographic and the BBC. His work on cities and companies was
selected as a breakthrough idea of 2007 by Harvard Business Review, and in 2006 he was selected for Time
Magazine's list of 100 Most Influential People in the World.

-o

FUNDAMENTALS

(working title)

By Frank Wilczek Herman Feshbach Professor of Physics, MIT
Recipient, 2004 Nobel Prize in Physics

[US — Penguin Press, UK — Allen Lane, Audio — Penguin RH; Proposal; 50,000 words; Delivery: March
2019]

An exciting new book by Frank Wilczek, one of the world's most eminent theoretical physicists and the most
important of his generation. His scientific work provides the basis for the LHC experiments at CERN. He has
received many prizes for his work in physics, including the Nobel Prize (2004) for work he did as a graduate
student at Princeton University, when he was twenty-one years old, and the King Faisal Prize in 2005.

Writes Wilczek: The premise of the book is simple: I formulated ten basic propositions, which together convey
the core of what every thinking person should know about science. In Fundamentals, the ten basic propositions
support a series of interesting and connected chapters, which give historical and cultural context, outline the
evidence, and draw out the implications. I want the marketing of this book to be based on the following slogan:
If you read just one book about science, this should be the one.

Here are three examples of the ten basic propositions:

Brockman, Inc. Frankfurt 2016 Hotlist
-15-

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025161
