4.2.12
WC: 191694

This chapter tells the story of some of the many murder and attempted murder cases I have
litigated over the past 50 years. In many of them, I use science not only as a shield to protect my
client, but also as a sword to prove misconduct on the part of the prosecution, police or
laboratory technicians. Some of the cases are well known. Many are not. All of them are
intriguing.

Most of my cases have been appeals from convictions. I’ve done a few trials and I wish I could
have done more, since I love developing evidence and arguing to juries, but my teaching
commitments are far more conducive to arguing hour-long appeals than month-long trials.

My emphasis on evidence, particularly scientific evidence, led me, early in my career to realize the
traditional way of arguing appeals did not maximize the chances of success. The rules for an
appeal provide that only errors made at trial and preserved as part of the trial record may be
raised and argued on appeal. All other issues, such as newly discovered evidence, ineffective
assistance of counsel, prosecutorial misconduct discovered after trial, must be raised on what is
called “collateral attack” —by a writ of habeus corpus or other such procedures. I quickly came
to realize that appellate judges, like all human beings, care more about whether a defendant is
guilty or innocent than whether there was a technical mistake at the trial. This perception was
solidified by the approach many judges, such as the well respected Henry Friendly, espoused:
namely that innocence or guilt should play a greater role in reviewing convictions than what they
called “technicalities.”

Accordingly, I developed a technique, which has now been adopted by some other lawyers, under
which I tried to combine the appeal and habeus corpus aspects of the case into one challenge to
the conviction. As soon as I was retained to do an appeal, I gathered together a legal team that
included investigators, law students and experts in other disciplines, such as medicine and
forensics. I asked them to investigate the case from scratch. If the investigation then turned up
new information suggestive of innocence, I would quickly file a habeus corpus petition and not
wait for the outcome of the appeal. If the petition were denied, as they often were by the trial
judge, I would then try to combine them into the appeal so that the appellate court would have a
fuller view of the actual situation. I did this quite successfully in the Claus Von Bulow case. The
court reversed that conviction not only because of errors made at trial, but because of new
evidence of innocence that we had discovered after the trial. I have used this approach, often
quite successfully, in many of my appeals, especially those involving homicides, where new
evidence frequently emerges.

I suspect that some of my clients, including some whose cases I have won, have been guilty. I
believe that some have been innocent. As to the majority, I am not certain. There is a myth that
criminal defense lawyers always know whether their clients are guilty or not guilty, because guilty
clients confess their guilt in confidence. This has certainly not been my experience. Of all the
homicide cases in which I have been involved, only one client has confessed his guilt to me. I
won that case on the basis of constitutional issues. I have never had a case in which I have helped
to free a guilty client who then killed again. I tell my clients that under no circumstances will I
ever represent them a second time.

180

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017267
