governor Jon Corzine—immediately became Bannon’s antithesis.

For Bannon, the ideologue, Cohn was the exact inverse, a commodities trader doing
what traders do—read the room and figure out which way the wind is blowing. “Getting
Gary to take a position on something is like nailing butterflies to the wall,” commented
Katie Walsh.

Cohn started to describe a soon-to-be White House that would be business-focused and
committed to advancing center-right to moderate positions. In this new configuration,
Bannon would be marginalized and Cohn, who was dismissive of Priebus, would be the
chief of staff in waiting. To Cohn, it seemed like easy street. Of course it would work out
this way: Priebus was a lightweight and Bannon a slob who couldn’t run anything.

Within weeks of Cohn’s arrival on the transition team, Bannon nixed Cohn’s plan to
expand the National Economic Council by as many as thirty people. (Kushner, not to be
denied, nixed Bannon’s plan to have David Bossie build and lead his staff.) Bannon also
retailed the likely not-too-far-off-the-mark view (or, anyway, a popular view inside
Goldman Sachs) that Cohn, once slated to become Goldman’s CEO, had been forced out
for an untoward Haig-like grasping for power—in 1981 then secretary of state Alexander
Haig had tried to insist he held the power after Ronald Reagan was shot—when Goldman
CEO Lloyd Blankfein underwent cancer treatment. In the Bannon version, Kushner had
bought damaged goods. The White House was clearly Cohn’s professional lifeline—why
else would he have come into the Trump administration? (Much of this was retailed to
reporters by Sam Nunberg, the former Trump factotum who was now doing duty for
Bannon. Nunberg was frank about his tactics: “I beat the shit out of Gary whenever
possible.”)

It is a measure of the power of blood (or blood by marriage), and likely the power of
Goldman Sachs, too, that in the middle of a Republican-controlled Washington and a
virulent, if not anti-Semitic (at least toward liberal Jews), right-wing West Wing, the
Kushner-Cohn Democrats appeared to be ascendant. Part of the credit went to Kushner,
who showed an unexpected tenacity. Conflict averse—in the Kushner household, his
father, monopolizing all the conflict, forced everyone else to be a mollifier—confronting
neither Bannon nor his father-in-law, he began to see himself in a stoic sense: he was the
last man of moderation, the true figure of self-effacement, the necessary ballast of the
ship. This would all be made manifest by a spectacular accomplishment. He would
complete the mission his father-in-law had foisted on him, the one he was more and more
seeing as his, yes, destiny. He would make peace in the Middle East.

“He’s going to make peace in the Middle East,” Bannon said often, his voice reverent
and his expression deadpan, cracking up all the Bannonites.

So in one sense Kushner was a figure of heightened foolishness and ridicule. In
another, he was a man, encouraged by his wife and by Cohn, who saw himself on the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019992
