DAN ARIELY

Dan Ariely (born April 29, 1968) is an Israeli American
professor of psychology and behavioral economics. He
teaches at Duke University and is the founder of The
Center for Advanced Hindsight. Ariely’s talks on TED
have been watched 2.8 million times. He is the author
of Predictably Irrational and The Upside of Irrationality,
both of which became New York Times best sellers.

Dan Ariely was born in New York City while
his father was studying for an MBA degree at Columbia
University. The family returned to Israel when he was
three. He grew up in Ramat Hasharon. In his senior year of
high school, he was active in Hanoar Haoved Vehalomed,
an Israeli youth movement. While preparing a ktovet esh
(fire inscription) for a traditional nighttime ceremony, the
flammable materials he was mixing exploded, causing
third-degree burns over 70 percent of his body.

Ariely is married to Sumi, with whom
he has two children, a son and a daughter.

Ariely was a physics and mathematics major
at Tel Aviv University, but transferred to philosophy
and psychology. However, in his last year he dropped

philosophy and concentrated solely on psychology, in
which he received his B.A. He also holds an M.A. anda
Ph.D. in cognitive psychology from the University of North

Carolina at Chapel Hill. He completed a second doctorate
in business administration at Duke University at the urging
of Nobel economic sciences laureate Daniel Kahneman.

After obtaining his Ph.D. degree, he taught at MIT
between 1998 and 2008, before returning to Duke University
as James B. Duke Professor of Psychology and Behavioral
Economics. He was formerly the Alfred P. Sloan Professor of
Behavioral Economics at MIT Sloan School of Management.
Although he is a professor of marketing with no formal training
in economics, he is considered one of the leading behavioral
economists. Ariely is the author of the books Predictably
Irrational: The Hidden Forces That Shape Our Decisions and The
Upside of Irrationality: The Unexpected Benefits of Defying Logic
at Work and at Home. When asked whether reading Predictably
Irrational and understanding one’s irrational behaviors could
make a person’s life worse (such as by defeating the benefits of
a placebo), Ariely responded that there could be a short-term
cost, but that there would also likely be long-term benefits,
and that reading his book would not make a person worse off.

Ariely’s laboratory, the Center of Advanced
Hindsight at Duke University, pursues research in
subjects like the psychology of money, decision making
by physicians and patients, cheating, and social justice.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017529
