Epilogue | 301

issue is not surveillance itself; it is the proper way such surveillance
is conducted.

The NSA surveillance of telephone records that Snowden exposed
was different in its intent from the surveillance of the Cold War. Its
target was a selected list of 300 to 400 foreign jihadists living abroad.
Many of these individuals residing in Syria, Iraq, and Pakistan had
been identified by the FBI and the CIA as active bomb makers, assas-
sins, and weapon specialists. This was not domestic surveillance, but
when any of these suspects telephoned a phone number in the United
States, the NSA checked the billing records of the domestic phone
number that had been called to determine all the calls emanating
from it. The purpose of this search was to assemble for the FBI a list
of contacts that a foreign suspect might have in the United States. To
expedite this task, it obtained from telephone companies the billing
records, without any names attached, of all their users and stored
them in a single archive under its control. While this surveillance
targeted foreign terrorists, not domestic dissent, the bulk collection
of phone records had the potential for more nefarious use, a danger

© that Snowden brought to the public’s attention. As a result, Con- ©
gress modified the Patriot Act so that billing records would remain
on the computers of the phone companies for a limited time rather
than on those of the NSA. The NSA could still search them after
obtaining an order from the FISA court, though it could not archive
the data for future use, so little harm to individual privacy could be
done. Snowden deserves a large share of the credit not only for this
change but for making the public aware of domestic surveillance.

The bad part of the equation is that Snowden deeply damaged an
intelligence system that American presidents have relied on for over
six decades. The heart of that system was the sources and methods
used to intercept other nations’ communications. Until Snowden, the
NSA’s wall of secrecy kept these nations from knowing about them
or, in some cases, even realizing that they were vulnerable to inter-
ception. For example, as previously discussed, the NSA had developed
the remarkable ability to tap into an adversary nation’s computers,

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.indd 301 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019789
