going to have some low quality characters playing early in the space...”

That evening, there is a small cocktail party, which includes the former
Prime Minister of Australian, Kevin Rudd, and Thorbjern Jaglandthe head of the
Noble Peace Prize Committee, who offers an affable, but general scathing, critique
of U.S. diplomacy (and a brief defense of Obama’s Peace Prize award) and to
whom Epstein offers a ride back to Europe on his jet.

The next morning, it’s Ehud Barack, the former Israeli Prime Minister and
Israel, for breakfast. Barack is, over his omelet, able to defend both Obama and
Putin. Then Kathy Ruemmler, who has just left her job as White House Counsel
joins. She is already in the mix as a possible next attorney general, but, in fact, will
withdraw after considering her options.

Larry Summers wife, Elisa New, drops by. She teaches American poetry at
Harvard and 1s putting together a proposal for a series on poetry that WGBH in
Boston may produce and Epstein is advising on where she might go for added
support (he also makes mince meat of her budget).

There follows the former head of the UN Security Council, Hardeep Purie,
and then head of the central bank of Kazakhstan, Kairat Kelimbetov.

. Then Martin Nowak a Professor of Biology and Mathematics and Director
of the Program for Evolutionary Dynamics at Harvard, the institute that Epstein
has funded with $30 million. Part of Nowak’s research has to do with trying to
“describe cancer mathematically.” Epstein preempts Nowak’s explanation (which
I’m not quite getting): “Think of cancer the same way as you think of a terrorist
group. The NSA has been able to thwart a great number of terrorism acts by
intercepting communication signals from one terrorist to another. That same
dynamic, a form of signal intelligence, of finding a terrorist in Europe, can be used
to intercept communication between cancer sells. Cancer cells merely
communicate in protean code rather than electronic code. If you can decode what
the signals are saying you can jam those signal between terrorist calls—essentially
wipe out their cell phones. Likewise if you can decode biological signals you can
jam them too, that’s the holy grail.”

Then Richard Azel, a Nobel prize winner in physiology. Then Ron Baron
who, in his Baron Fund, has $26 billion under management. Then Josh Harris the
co-founder of Apollo Global Management ($164 billion under management) and
owner of the New Jersey Devils and the Philadelphia 76ers.

Perhaps it’s just the ultimate feminist nightmare: Men (and a few more that a
few women) continue to come to Epstein’s because—no matter their public bows
to modern manners—they simply don’t care that he offends every aspect of
reconstructed gender and political sensibilities. In private, it remains a man’s
world—a rich man’s world.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022850
