TED2017: The future you

https://ted2017.ted.com/program

4/20/17, 12:07 PM

Passionate about the visual side of data, she invented the project Dollar Street, where she uses photos as data to examine stereotypes about
countries, incomes and families around the world -- like, for instancee the wide range of things that people use as toothbrushes.

gapminder.org

The Surprise Guest
World figure

A world figure whose identity we can't yet reveal.

Jon Boogz

Movement artist

Jon Boogz is a movement artist, choreographer, and director who seeks to push the evolution of what dance can be.

As a dancer and creator, Jon Boogz seeks to share with audiences of all backgrounds an appreciation of the melding of art forms while
inspiring and bringing awareness to social issues. Boogz recently wrote, choreographed, directed and danced in Color of Reality, a short
film in collaboration with visual artist Alexa Meade and fellow dancer Lil Buck.

First motivated to dance by the work of Michael Jackson, Boogz has choreographed for icons including Mikhail Baryshnikov, Naomi
Campbell, Gloria Estefan; for Pharrell’s Adidas Originals campaign to creative direct, choreograph, and perform in Movement Art Is:
Standing Rock at ComplexCon; and as creative consultant for ads launching campaigns for Apple and Lexus. Boogz’s collaborators
include TriBeCa Film Festival, DAIS, Lil Buck, and Flying Lotus; his choreography is used in FOX’s So You Think You Can Dance and
Cirque du Soleil’s M47 ONE; and he was featured at the Geffen Playhouse’s “Backstage at the Geffen” with his dance company Control
Freakz, Lil Buck, and spoken-word artist Robin Sanders to honor Morgan Freeman and Jeff Skoll.

jonboogz.com @jonboogz

Lil Buck
Dancer, choreographer, educator

A viral video star known for his gravity-defying, elegant street dance moves, Lil Buck is a fertile collaborator across disciplines and media.

International phenomenon Lil Buck began jookin’ -- a street dance that originated in Memphis -- at age 13 alongside mentors Marico Flake
and Daniel Price. After receiving early hip-hop training from Teran Garry and ballet training on scholarship at the New Ballet Ensemble,
he performed and choreographed until relocating to Los Angeles in 2009.

Named one of Dance Magazine’s 25 to Watch, his collaboration with Spike Jonze and Yo-Yo Ma performing The Swan went viral in
2011. Since then, he has collaborated with a broad spectrum of artists including JR, Damian Woetzel, the New York City Ballet, Madonna,
Benjamin Millepied and Spike Lee. Buck is an avid arts education advocate, a recipient of the WSJ Innovator Award and recently launched
a capsule collection with Versace.

youtube.com/user/LILBUCKDALEGEND https://twitter.com/lilbuckdalegend.

Raj Panjabi
Physician

A billion people around the world lack access to health care because they live too far from a clinic. Through Last Mile Health, 2017 TED
Prize winner Raj Panjabi aims to extend health services to all -- by training members of the community.

Raj Panjabi was nine years old when civil war broke out in his native country of Liberia. His family fled, eventually resettling in High
Point, North Carolina. Raj dreamed of going to medical school and, as a student in 2005, he returned to Liberia. He was shocked to find a
health care system in total devastation. Only 50 doctors remained to treat a population of four million.

With a small team of Liberian civil war survivors, American health workers and $6,000 he'd received as a wedding gift, Panjabi co-
founded Last Mile Health in 2007. Initially focused on care for HIV patients, Last Mile Health has grown into a robust organization that
partners with the government of Liberia to recruit, train, equip and employ community health care workers who provide a wide range of
services to their neighbors in Liberia's most remote regions. In 2016, Last Mile Health workers treated 50,000 patients, including nearly
22,000 cases of malaria, pneumonia and diarrhea in children. While the organization focuses on integrated primary care, its network can be
leveraged in a crisis. In the fight against Ebola, Last Mile Health supported government response by training 1,300 health workers in
southeastern Liberia.

Panjabi is a physician in the Division of Global Health Equity at Harvard Medical School, Brigham and Women's Hospital and an advisor
to the Clinton Global Initiative. He was ranked as one of The World’s 50 Greatest Leaders by Fortune in 2015 and named to TIME's list
of the 100 Most Influential People in the World” in 2016. As the winner of the 2017 TED Prize, he has a bold wish to take his work even
further.

Page 9 of 21

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014959
