Steve Bannon, still waiting in his temporary office in the EOB, thought, OA my god,
there he goes. I told you so.

OOK Ok

Outside of the portion of the electorate that, as Trump once claimed, would let him shoot
someone on Fifth Avenue, the civilized world was pretty much universally aghast.
Everybody came to a dumbfounded moral attention. Anybody in any position of
responsibility remotely tied to some idea of establishment respectability had to disavow
him. Every CEO of a public company who had associated him- or herself with the Trump
White House now needed to cut the ties. The overriding issue might not even be what
unreconstructed sentiments he actually seemed to hold in his heart—Bannon averred that
Trump was not in fact anti-Semitic, but on the other count he wasn’t sure—but that he flat-
out couldn’t control himself.

In the wake of the immolating news conference, all eyes were suddenly on Kelly—this
was his baptism of Trump fire. Spicer, Priebus, Cohn, Powell, Bannon, Tillerson, Mattis,
Mnuchin—virtually the entire senior staff and cabinet of the Trump presidency, past and
present, had traveled through the stages of adventure, challenge, frustration, battle, self-
justification, and doubt, before finally having to confront the very real likelihood that the
president they worked for—whose presidency they bore some official responsibility for—
didn’t have the wherewithal to adequately function in his job. Now, after less than two
weeks on the job, it was Kelly’s turn to stand at that precipice.

The debate, as Bannon put it, was not about whether the president’s situation was bad,
but whether it was Twenty-Fifth-Amendment bad.

OOK Ok

To Bannon, if not to Trump, the linchpin of Trumpism was China. The story of the next
generation, he believed, had been written, and it was about war with China. Commercial
war, trade war, cultural war, diplomatic war—it would be an all-encompassing war that
few in the United States now understood needed to be fought, and that almost nobody was
prepared to fight.

Bannon had compiled a list of “China hawks” that crossed political lines, going from
the Breitbart gang, to former New Republic editor Peter Beinart—who regarded Bannon
only with scorn—and orthodox liberal-progressive stalwart Robert Kuttner, the editor of
the small, public policy magazine American Prospect. On Wednesday, August 16, the day
after the president’s news conference in Trump Tower, Bannon, out of the blue, called
Kuttner from his EOB office to talk China.

By this point, Bannon was all but convinced that he was on the way out of the White
House. He had received no invitation to join the president in Bedminster, a withering sign.
That day, he had learned of the appointment of Hope Hicks as interim communications
director—a Jarvanka victory. Meanwhile, the steady whisper from the Jarvanka side

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020108
