Heather

Date: Mon, May 11, 2015 at 3:08 PM
Subject:
To: Brad Wechsler

Melanie Spinella

, Ada Clapp

Richard Joslin
lets look at funding the art partnership begin with 100 m of unencumbered art. plus 20 inveestment. and the
same amoiunt of value from trust. leon should choose b trustee and begin to use mechanics. . later we can
amend and add .

2 hire an IT person asap

3.1 would hire jerry the woman. gittis. person

4 I will find a subpart k person to handle partnership acct

5 , accounting software upgrade, onlilne banking needs to be seamless

6. not sure status of bringing plane boat acct inhouse?

7 prepare fbar report for june. draft next week

8 pahidon actuals vs projections. . new valuation

9. new valuation of tra contract?

jpm db goldman sachs acct? new llc?

review of dec 31 books for all entities? bfp . etc

Date: Wed, May 13, 2015 at 3:04 PM

Subject: Fwd: jobs ahead

To: Melanie Spinclla 3 I RZ 7 7 7

the list that we discussed... i spent time with brad again. re the candidates . fiiling due, this week, next
month, .

Date: Sun, Dec 28, 2014 at 5:18 AM
Subject: jobs ahead

To: Brad Wechsler Melanie Spinella PoE Ada Clapp

1. review accounting system. Book keeping softaware. _ staff, ( senior accountant ) methods on line banking,
brokerage. cash mgmt. airplane reimbursement. boat sale. art purchases sales use and sales tax. tax

filings FBAR FATCA, gaming commsion, pfics, insurance . uk co law.

2. review docs for TRA BRH grats, trusts, heritage will, insurance, art lending. medical, springing

powers. two fire drill books. one needed for injury. other for death

3 review bills . boats , planes, legal, (PW, McFarlands all outside. legal and accounting. Toms bills over
400k . house projects. south ny ben

4 cashflow projections tax projections , interaction with Apollo accounting tax, Phaidon ,art space ,and
Regan. legal accounting. audit

5. children meetings , review to date and allocations

6 review all role in payables. files scanned, no paper

7 review invesmtents for tax basis and unrecognized gain

8 schedule of all hedge funds . redeemables commitments etc.

9 charities pledges strucutre, staff ,

Date: Mon, May 18, 2015 at 2:17 PM

Subject: agenda for tomorrrow

To: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com>, Melanie Spinella

as areflection on your voiced spirited concerns inthe what have you done for me lately category ?

yy: . inthe beginning . there was eileen and tom. ( eve and adam,-- however it appears, she declined to

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023352
