72 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

course, the similarity of the phrasing might not have been entirely
coincidental. Greenwald’s 2012 speech had been put on YouTube and
widely circulated on the Internet just a few days before Snowden
first wrote to him on December 1, 2012. Snowden identified himself
as a privacy advocate, which was also how Greenwald often identi-
fied himself in his speeches. He also echoed other concerns Green-
wald had publicly expressed, including defending American privacy
from government intrusions.

Snowden promised the leaks he would supply would provide dra-
matic results. He asserted in one of his e-mails to Poitras that the
“shock” of the documents he would give Greenwald would result in
the public’s learning about the secret “mechanisms through which
our privacy is violated.” According to Snowden’s assessment, follow-
ing that initial uproar, they could achieve another objective in their
common cause. “We can guarantee for all people equal protection
against unreasonable search,” he wrote. In light of this convergence
of views, it is not surprising that Greenwald was fully convinced
of Citizen Four’s bona fides. He said to Poitras, “He’s real,” and he

© agreed to help break the story in The Guardian. ®

Poitras now revealed to Greenwald that Citizen Four would deliver
an entire trove of secret documents to them in six to eight weeks.
According to this timetable, the Greenwald scoop and the “shock”
Citizen Four promised would come in early to mid-June 2013.

At this point in April, Snowden was in full control. Although
his job at Dell involved endlessly monitoring largely meaningless
encrypted messages in the NSA tunnel, he had been able to get three
major journalists to react favorably to his proposal. None of them
knew his name, position, age, location, or where precisely he worked.
Nor did they know the means by which he planned to obtain the
secrets that he dangled before them. They also did not know where,
or even if, they would meet their source. Their total knowledge about
him was the description he improperly gave of himself: a “senior
government employee in the intelligence community” (Greenwald
speculated that he was a disgruntled CIA station chief).

Even though they were operating largely in the dark, these three
journalists acted as almost any other ambitious reporter would if he
or she were offered a major scoop about illegal acts of the govern-

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 72 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019560
