The Great Divide | 115

from Moscow, “They [Greenwald and Poitras] actually recorded me
on camera saying this before I revealed my identity.” The purpose
of this demonization was to divert attention from the government's
own crimes.

To be sure, it is not unprecedented for the government to release
defamatory information about individuals who have embarrassed
USS. intelligence by defecting. When two NSA analysts, William
Martin and Bernon Mitchell, defected to Russia in the 1960s and
accused the NSA of violating international law after arriving in
Moscow, U.S. government officials responded by putting out the
story that they were homosexual lovers, which was both untrue and
irrelevant to the intelligence secrets that they had compromised. It
is certainly possible that the government put out information to
intentionally defame Snowden. Secretary of State John Kerry char-
acterized him as a coward who should “man up” by returning to the
United States.

While one can discount such characterizations against Snowden
by government officials as demonization, as I do, one cannot as eas-

© ily dismiss the independent evidence that undermines Snowden’s ©
assertion that his sole motive was blowing the whistle on illicit sur-
veillance in the United States. For example, in 2014, the Lawfare
Institute, a nonprofit organization that publishes a blog on national
security concerns, in cooperation with the Brookings Institution,
did an independent analysis of all the published documents that
Snowden provided to the media. It concluded that with some notable
exceptions, such as the two documents initially published by The
Guardian and the Post, the now-famous FISA Verizon warrant and
the PRISM slides, few of the other documents that Snowden had
given Poitras and Greenwald for publication had anything to do
with either domestic surveillance or infringements on the privacy of
Americans. By the Lawfare Institute’s count, 32 of Snowden’s leaks
to these journalists concerned the NSA’s overseas sources and meth-
ods, 9 identified overseas locations of the NSA’s intelligence bases,
25 revealed the identities of foreign officials of interest to U.S. intel-
ligence agencies, 14 disclosed information about Internet companies
legally cooperating with the NSA, and 19 concerned technology
products that the NSA had been using or researching.

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 115 ® 9/29/16 5:51PM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019603
