US rates

US 10-year (29 June): 1.6% (last month: 1.7%)
UBS View US 10-year (6-month forecast): 1.8%

e US 10-year yields have recovered slightly from their June 1%* 2012 lows after a reduction of political risks
in the Eurozone. However, Treasury yields remain near historical lows due to the extension of Operation
Twist (OT) coupled with recent setbacks of domestic economic data.

e We expect a marginal rise in yields since the US economy remains on a moderate cyclical growth path
with the housing market having bottomed out. Additionally the diminished near-term risk of a Greek exit
from the Eurozone following elections supports a gradual rise in Treasury yields.

¢ However, over a six-month horizon, the extension of Operation Twist (OT) until the end of 2012 by the
Federal Reserve (Fed) will limit the upside potential in yields. As of late, the probability of even more
stimulus in the form of quantitative easing from the Fed has risen substantially and markets have pushed
out the first rate hike expectation into 2015. Additionally, structural obstacles from the pending US fiscal
consolidation will also limit the upside potential for yields. Further, the US economy seems more vulnerable
to possible spillover effects of increased political uncertainties in the Eurozone.

A Positive scenario for US bonds US 10-year (6-month range): 1.5-1.7%
e The European debt crisis further re-escalates. The resulting contagion would intensify the current flight to
quality, with Italian and Spanish spreads above 550 basis points to the Bund (our base case).
¢ With the increased likelihood of further quantitative easing, the risk is that yields would stay low or fall
lower.
& Negative scenario for US bonds US 10-year (6-month range): 2.3-2.9%
e If the EU leaders indicate serious commitment towards more fiscal integration, and US growth proves
more sustainable with a rapidly improving labor market, then yields could rise.
e Recently, market expectations regarding future rate hikes by the Fed have pushed out a first rate hike
into 2Q 2015. Any re-pricing into 2014 or 2013 will result in higher yields.

Note: Scenarios refer to global economic scenarios (see slide 7)

What we're watching
Fed policy

Why it matters

The Fed's assessment of the labour market determines it's stance on quantitative
easing and is key for yields. Key dates: 31 July, Federal Open Market
Committee meeting

Key focus of the Fed, judged in part based on estimates of the non-accelerating
inflation rate of employment. Key date: 6 July, US non-farm payrolls

Current yields reflect low real interest rates, but rather normal inflation
expectations. If inflation expectations decline, the risk of a deflationary spiral
would exist, leading to more downside risk for long maturity yields.

The US presidential election will guide fiscal spending for the coming years.

Labor market

Inflation expectations

US presidential election

36 UBS

Duration preference: neutral

Recommendations

Tactical (6 months)

e Declining growth momentum, extension
of Operation Twist by the Fed and a rising
likelihood of a rate cut by the ECB, are
likely to keep yields on extraordinary low
levels, for the time being. Thus we
suggest a neutral duration position
tactically.

Strategic (1 to 2 years)

e Yields have significant upside potential
over the next couple of years given the
current extraordinarily low levels — of real
interest rates in particular. Thus clients
with a longer time horizon should focus
on bonds with short and medium
maturities

USD 10-year yields and forecasts

5%
A%
3%
2%
1%

0%

Jun-09 Jun-10 Jun-11 Jun-12 Jun-13
forecasts — US 10Y¥
Source: Bloomberg, UBS CIO, as of June 18t 2012
Note: Past performance is not an indication of future returns.
24

For further information please contact CIO's asset class specialist Daniela Steinbrink Mattei, daniela.steinbrinkmattei@ubs.com

Please see important disclaimer and disclosures at the end of the document.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024159
