JaMEs PaTTERSON

More than a decade had passed since Epstein’s case first
landed on the state attorney’s desk.

“The New York Times has called me,” said Krischer. “The
British papers. I’m not interested in being pulled into that con-
yersation. I know that the police chief didn’t think the case was
handled right, but that’s why he’s a cop and I’m a prosecutor.”

Krischer, who left the state attorney's office in 2009, is still a
member of the Criminal Justice Commission in Palm Beach
County. Since his retirement, he’s volunteered one morning a
week at the office of the state attorney and two mornings a week
at the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office.

He still remains active in child welfare issues, working with
the Florida Department of Children and Families.

Despite his continued involvement with local law enforce-

ment, he hasn’t spoken to Michael Reiter in years.

Bradley Edwards

In December of 2009, Jeffrey Epstein filed suit, under Florida’s
RICO act, against Scott Rothstein, the jailed Ponzi king; Bradley
Edwards, the lawyer who'd worked, briefly, in Rothstein’s law
firm, RRA, and represented several of Epstein's victims; and one
of those victims, an individual referred to in the lawsuit as

“TM.”
“Upon information and belief,” the suit stated, “EDWARDS a

knew or should have known that ROTHSTEIN was utilizing a
RRA as a front for the massive Ponzi scheme and/or were selling ~
an alleged interest or investment in the Civil Actions (and other q
claims) involving Epstein.” The suit also claimed that, “By using =

Civil Actions against EP‘
ments regarding same, RC
investors into ROTHSTEII
dollars which, in turn, w
EPSTEIN for the sole pur
scheme.”
Moreover, the suit claii
sex with Epstein; worked a
prostitute and call girl: h:
painkillers, Xanax, Ecstas
Amendment during her de
relevant but problem ques’
claims about two other vic
said only good things abo
FBI in 2007, while being
story “changed dramaticall
the hands of EDWARDS an
In a motion for summar
Edwards denied all of thes:
frivolous for two separate '
claimed, Epstein was seel
asserting his own Fifth An
covery of relevant facts. (An
dozens of times, when dep
On the other hand, Epstein
by all of the record evidence
“The truth in the record
Support Epstein’s claims an
toborative of Edwards's swor
Stated.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022175
