20

Conference (OIC) in Bali, where the OIC expressed its support for
improvement of ties between the two major Muslim countries.
Egypt’s Changing Role

Gamal Abdel Nasser was the central figure behind the first Arab
revolution, which precipitated the withdrawal of colonial powers,
Britain and France, from the Middle East. As Saudi Arabia
spearheads a regional counter-revolution by abetting repressive
monarchs in the Persian Gulf and providing sanctuary to fallen
autocrats — with President Saleh of Yemen being among the latest
beneficiaries — post-revolutionary Egypt could once again inspire
change across the region. Given its size, history, and cultural
influence, a successful transition to democracy would undoubtedly
transform Egypt into a role model for smaller fellow Arab countries.
The era of yes men in the Arab world is beginning to end, and the
new Egypt — though it has maintained good ties with the U.S. —
will be more assertive and independent in its foreign policy choices.
The case of Turkey is very instructive. Despite being a pillar of
NATO, and a strong ally of the Unites States, Turkey has repeatedly
shown its independence on a number of key regional issues such as
Iran's nuclear program, the invasion of Iraq, and the siege of Gaza.
There are limits to this independence. Egypt is heavily reliant on aid,
investments, tourism, and trade. Economic concerns are still the
country’s top priority. According to the latest Gallup poll, the
majority of Egyptians are extremely pessimistic about the economy.
Therefore, the priority of post-revolutionary Egypt’s leaders is
ultimately the restoration of confidence and economic dynamism.
Democrats and Islamists are also aware that the military could choose
to intervene — with tacit support from outside — if the democratic
process gives birth to a radical government that jeopardizes the
interests of the military and the state. This has been the case in other
comparable countries such as Turkey and Pakistan, where the military

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030175
