128 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

claims that he stole only documents that exposed NSA transgres-
sions into domestic surveillance, that he turned over all the stolen
documents to journalists, and that he was forced to remain in Mos-
cow by the actions of the U.S. government. They also find that the
unprecedented size and complexity of the penetration of NSA files,
compromising hundreds of thousands of secret documents pertain-
ing to U.S. operations against adversary nations, according to the
NSA’s and the Pentagon’s estimates, is not easily explained given
Snowden’s avowed purpose for his theft.

The deep split in how Snowden is perceived brings to mind the
famous drawing of a duck-rabbit cartoon first published in 1900 in
the book Fact and Fable in Psychology. The figure is perceived either
as a duck or as a rabbit, but it cannot be seen as both simultaneously.
Whether a person sees a rabbit or a duck in this test may depend
on the information available to that person. Similarly, what may
account for the sharp divide between the pro-Snowden and the anti-
Snowden camps is a disparity in their available information.

The pro-Snowden camp’s view is largely informed by Snowden

© himself. Snowden supporters prefer to believe his words rather than ©
his actions. In the anti-Snowden camp are administration officials
and the members of the House and Senate intelligence oversight
committees who have been at least partially briefed on the con-
tinuing investigations of the Snowden affair. The members of the
Senate Intelligence Committee, for example, were told by David
Leatherwood, the director of operations for the Defense Intelligence
Agency, that the military files compromised by Snowden included
documents bearing on military plans and weapons systems; foreign
governments’ intelligence activities (including special activities),
intelligence sources, or methods of cryptology; scientific and techno-
logical matters relating to national security; and vulnerable systems,
installations, infrastructures, projects, plans, and protection services
related to national security and the development, production, or use
of weapons of mass destruction. The members of the House and
Senate Intelligence Committees, but not the public, have also been
privy to an NSA investigation that established the chronology of
Snowden’s actions, including changing jobs, copying more than one

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 128 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019616
