blockade and will take action at the UN General Assembly to make
sure that the matter is discussed in the International Court of Justice
(ICJ). And finally, Turkey will extend full support to the families of
the Mavi Marmara victims in their pursuit of justice from Israel.
Some of these sanctions could be considered radical; however, some
of these same actions, although with some slight differences, have
been taken before in Turkey's relationship with Israel. Diplomatic ties
between the two countries were severed in 1980s when Israel
declared Jerusalem its capital, so this is not a first. The suspension of
military agreements could be viewed as significant, but it should be
noted that the two countries' military ties became stronger only in the
1990s, so it's not as though military cooperation between them has
existed over a lengthy period. The emphasis upon taking measures to
ensure safe navigation in the eastern Mediterranean is important
because Israel assumes the right to take action in the area for its own
territorial security. It is possible that the two countries could have an
altercation if Turkey decides to take extreme measures in this regard.
Of course, this does not necessarily mean that there will be a direct
conflict, but the eastern Mediterranean could become a source of
tension between the two states.

The decision to seek adjudication on the Gaza blockade from the ICJ
is also new, given the history of Turkish-Israeli relations, and it
should be noted that this will not be easy to do. A decision by the
court in such a case will not have a binding effect, as it will be an
advisory opinion. Also, requesting an advisory decision from the ICJ
requires a voting session at the UN General Assembly and a qualified
majority vote on the issue. Turkey will need to make a great
diplomatic effort to secure that majority.

From Turkey's perspective, it could be said that the report
undermines its foreign policy attitude with regard to this specific
incident. The report could have provided legitimate grounds for

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025000
