open invitation for cross examination and any other exploitation possible as it cannot be an accepted part of the
process.

2. In this whole matter, | am most disturbed by the composition of the Mueller team and it seems to me that if we are to
learn anything from the IG's report it is the importance of having an investigation conducted above-board without
personal and political baggage. Mueller had a whole universe of lawyers from around the country to choose from to
make up his team. He purposefully chose a murderer's row of the worst. | can go one by one; but | will spare

you. Here are a couple of examples:

A. Andrew Weissmann was known in the EDNY as The Pathological Liar after the SNL character. He literally would
withhold exculpatory evidence throughout the case and then one day when defense counsel went to the bathroom or
lunch, stick the documents under others on his table and tell the judge the lawyer had it all along. | have been brought
into a case in which he lied from start to finish - and now his rats have come to me to admit their role in it - to get murder
convictions in two cases. He has been cited by judges for his misconduct and he runined both Arthur Anderson and
Enron through his work, all of which was rejected by the higher courts. He also is a Trump hater and Clinton
sycophant. Mueller knows Weissmann's conduct up close and personal. He chose Weissmann for his chief counsel at
the FBI years ago.

B. Jeannie Rhee, hand-picked by Mueller from Mueller's own firm, was actually Clinton's lawyer in the email
investigation. Now how does that look. She also is a bully and thinks she is a real tough guy and | don't want that kind
of character around. | also have an ineffective assistance of counsel case against her for a client in a $100 million
earnings management fraud case in which she was way over her head.

C. Greg Andres was another bully who replaced Weissmann in the EDNY. He withheld evidence terribly in his cases,
regularly threatened others, and accused a defendant of putting out a contract on him when he knew it was a
completely bogus claim, but gave him the publicity he craved. He is 100% in the pro-Clinton, anti-Trump

camp. President Obama gave his wife a federal judgeship on the SDNY

and on and on.

| don't personally believe Russia affected the election at all; but | certainly am not qualified to say. | do know that we
have meddled in other countries’ elections as a matter of policy forever. But the bottom line is, if there is to be an
investigation, just play it straight up. | am friends for a long time with the IG. If they had picked him to head up the
team, | would not be a weekly guest on Hannity tv and radio (| never would have been asked), as | Know he would pick
a team of honest folks from across the spectrum.

From: jeffrey E. <j i i >
To: David Schoen

Sent: Wed, Jul 4, 2018 8:10 am

Subject: Re: Hello

is itoverblown. ? all mob prosecutors have strong feelings towards their targets. | recall many that told stories of
how they despised gotti etc. why is stryok different ?

On Wed, Jul 4, 2018 at 7:51 AM, > wrote:

| am obsessed with prosecutorial and FBI misconduct wherever it rears it ugly head and i am committed to doing what i
can to fight it whether for my death penalty clients or a klansman. Lots of wrongdoing here and we all lose when the
system breaks down.

| assume you were just flipping the channels.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026291
