terms and zooming in on the disconnect. Uber’s customer base is strongly young, urban,
and progressive, and therefore out of sync with the Trump base. Brand-conscious
millennials saw this as beyond policy dickering and as part of an epic identity clash. The
Trump White House stood less for government and the push-pull of competing interests
and developing policies, and more, in a brand-savvy world, as a fixed and unpopular
cultural symbol.

Uber’s Kalanick resigned from the council. Disney CEO Bob Iger simply found that he
was otherwise occupied on the occasion of the forum’s first meeting.

But most of the people on the council—other than Elon Musk, the investor, inventor,
and founder of Tesla (who would later resign)—-were not from media or tech companies,
with their liberal bent, but from old-line, when-America-was-great enterprises. They
included Mary Barra, the CEO of General Motors; Ginni Rometty of IBM; Jack Welch,
the former CEO of GE; Jim McNerney, the former CEO of Boeing; and Indra Nooyi of
PepsiCo. If the new right had elected Trump, it was the older Fortune 100 executives who
most pleased him.

Trump attended the meeting with his full retinue—the circle that seemed always to
move with him in lockstep, including Bannon, Priebus, Kushner, Stephen Miller, and
National Economic Council chief Gary Cohn—but conducted it entirely himself. Each of
the people at the table, taking a point of interest, spoke for five minutes, with Trump then
asking follow-up questions. Though Trump appeared not to have particularly, or at all,
prepared for any of the subjects being discussed, he asked engaged and interested
questions, pursuing things he wanted to know more about, making the meeting quite an
easy back-and-forth. One of the CEOs observed that this seemed like the way Trump
preferred to get information—talking about what he was interested in and getting other
people to talk about his interests.

The meeting went on for two hours. In the White House view, this was Trump at his
best. He was most at home around people he respected—and these were “the most
respected people in the country,” according to Trump—who seemed to respect him, too.

This became a staff goal—to create situations in which he was comfortable, to
construct something of a bubble, to wall him off from a mean-spirited world. Indeed, they
sought to carefully replicate this formula: Trump in the Oval or in a larger West Wing
ceremonial room presiding in front of a receptive audience, with a photo opportunity.
Trump was often his own stage manager at these events, directing people in and out of the
picture.

OOK Ok

The media has a careful if selective filter when it comes to portraying real life in the White
House. The president and First Family are not, at least not usually, subjected to the sort of
paparazzi pursuit that in celebrity media results in unflattering to embarrassing to mocking

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019951
