Visit Healthgrades for information on Dr. Jeffrey M. Epstein, MD. Find Phone & Address information,
medical practice history, affiliated hospitals and more.

7. Billionaire Jeffrey Epstein: I'm a sex offender, not a predator | New...

nypost.com/.../billionaire-jeffrey-epstein-im-a-...

New York Post

by Amber Sutherland

Feb 25, 2011 - Billionaire pervert Jeffrey Epstein is back in New York City — and making
wisecracks about his just-ended jail stint for having sex with an...

8. Woody Allen spotted with convicted child sex-offender Jeffrey ...

www.dailymail.co.uk/.../Woody-Allen-spotted-convicted-chil...

Daily Mail

Sep 24, 2013 - Woody Allen has been spotted strolling on New York's Upper East Side with millionaire
child sex-offender Jeffrey Epstein, who served time for ...

9. Jeffrey Epstein: International Moneyman of Mystery

nymag.com/nymetro/news/people/n_7912/
New York Magazine

He's pals with a passel of Nobel Prize—winning scientists, CEOs like Leslie Wexner of the Limited, socialite
Ghislaine Maxwell, even Donald Trump. But it wasn't ...

Jeffrey Epstein ‘kept a diary of his under-aged victims’ - Telegraph

www.telegraph.co.uk » ... » North America » USA

The Daily Telegraph

Mar 5, 2011 - The Duke of York's billionaire paedophile friend kept a secret journal, described as “The Holy
Grail” by lawyers, which listed his alleged ...

De ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee a

The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of

Jeffrey Epstein

Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited
and may be unlawful. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and
destroy this communication and all copies thereof,
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved

De ee eee ee ee ee ee ee i ee a

The information contained in this communication is

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031352
