owt n woe Ww DN

MM MMNMNFRFHFRP RPP RPRP RP
OemwWwnrF OW DH RUB WNHH Ow

Daan SF WN FE

MONMONNNPPRP PEEP BE Bb
mBWNHEFE OW DARE SB WNHE OW

25

together possible that ] gave Russ the okay to hire
him before, 1] just don't have a specific recollection
one way or the other.

Q. At some point, | take it, you learned,
whether you sat in on a meeting when Mr. Edwards was
hired or whether your co-conspirator hired him, at
some point you learned that Mr. Edwards, in fact, had
been hired by the firm; is that correct?

A. I'm certain that ] gave the final okay to
hire him.

Q. Okay. When you were giving the final okay
io hire him, ] assume there had to be discussion of
the money that he was going to be paid, correct?

A. With somebody, yes.

Q. Certainly with Mr. Edwards, right? I assume
he wanted to know how much he was getting paid.

A. Yes, but] don't have a specific
recollection of whether ] discussed that with him or

. whether ] authorized Adler or maybe even Rosenfeldt to

discuss it with him. | don't recall.

Q. Do you have the slightest idea how much
money Mr. Edwards was paid when he first joined the
firm, what his salary was?

= A. J don't have an independent recollection.

~ Q. Generally someone like Mr. Edwards at his

level of accomplishment and his age, you know what the
general salary would have been at your firm?

It didn't work that way.

] see. Tel] me how it worked.

It's a case-by-case basis.

Tel] me how it worked.

Case-by-case basis.

. And how did you make that determination on a
case-by-case basis?

A. Actual book of business, potential book of
business, potentiality for growth, character, what he
brought to the table, and obviously a function of how
much money we had available at the time.

Q. Okay. And you don't have any recollection
of the machinations that occurred in determining what
Mr. Edwards salary would be, correct?

A. 1 do not.

Q. But certainly one of the things you would
consider would be the book of business, 1.e. the
Epstein case, nght?

A. I'm certain that ] did consider the Epstein
case.

Q. Do you know whether he brought any other
book of business --

A. But I'm also certain it wasn't the only

Q>O>ro>

Page 99

Oo pBWNHOrF OW DWI DUBWNHrFP OW DAHA HBWN EH

SHR GR EST ASS RE AST CL eae em EIN AR AR GE ERR ALANS WARES

NM NM NHN NYFF RF RP RF RFP RPP HB

factor 1 considered.

Q. All right. Do you know whether he brought,
in his book of business, do you know whether he
brought any other cases to the firm other than the
Epstein case?

A. J] don't recall one way or the other.

Q. Okay. Do you know whether your -- well, bad
question, | won't ask that.

Now, you've talked a lot about Ken Jenne
here this morning. Was Ken Jenne part of your Ponzi
scheme?

A. No, sir.

Q. Had nothing to do with it, right?

A. That's correct.

Q. Other than his having -- working for you as
an investigator, he was not one of your
co-conspirators, right?

A. He didn't work for me as an investigator, he
worked for me heading up our investigative division,
heading up our internal security, heading up my
personal security, and acting as a political advisor
to me.

Q. Okay. Did he serve any kind of
investigative function at all, after all, he was a law
enforcement officer at one point in his career?

Page 100

A. I note that he assisted the other people at
the firm that were doing the investigative work. ]
don't know if he personally did investigative work.
He may have.

Q. Do you know whether Mr. Jenne, in his role
as your advisor or your political consultant, do you
know if he was involved in any kind of illegality,
illegal wire tapping or anything like that while he
was at Rothstein?

MR. SCAROLA: Excuse me, ]'m going to
object to the form of the question, vague and
ambiguous.

THE WITNESS: To my knowledge he was not.
BY MR. GOLDBERGER:

Q. To your knowledge, no?

A. Correct.

Q. Okay. You talked about having a bunch of
fundraisers, I know you had a bunch of fundraisers
that was kind of a deal at Rothstein. This was kind
of a rock star Jaw firm, right? ] mean, you had lots
of fundraisers, lots of parties, right? Was that the
image you were trying to present?

A. In reality that's the way we were.

Q. Okay.

A. A Jot of young lawyers having a good time,

Page 101

26 (Pages 98 to 101)

FRIEDMAN, LOMBARDI & OLSON

305-371-6677

5ed93085-0554-447f-bcdd-ca2d8fe94 1df

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017515
