JAY P. LEFKOWITZ, Eso.
DECEMBER 13, 2007
PAGE 3 OF 5

already been submitted to the Office on several occasions and you suggest that I have kept that
information from those who reviewed the proposed indictment package. Contrary to your
suggestion, those submissions were attached to and incorporated in the proposed indictment
package, so your suggestion that I tried to hide something from the reviewers is false. I also take
issue with the duplicity of stating that we must accept as true those parts of the Recarey reports and
witness statements that you like and we must accept as false those parts that you do not like. You
and your co-counsel also impressed upon me from the beginning the need to undertake an
independent investigation. It seems inappropriate now to complain because our independent
investigation uncovered facts that are unfavorable to your client.

You complain that I “forced” your client and the State Attorney's Office to proceed on
charges that they do not believe in, yet you do not want our Office to inform the State Attorney’ s
Office of facts that support the additional charge nor do you want any of the victims of that charge
to contact Ms. Belohlavek or the Court. Ms. Belohlavek’s opinion may change if she knows the full
scope of your client’s actions. You and I spent several weeks trying to identify and put together a
plea to federal charges that your client was willing to accept. Yet your letter now accuses me of
“manufacturing” charges of obstruction of justice, making obscene phone calls, and violating child
privacy laws. When Mr. Lourie told you that those charges would “embarrass the Office,” he meant
that the Office was unwilling to bend the facts to satisfy Mr. Epstein’s desired prison sentence — a
statement with which I agree.

I hope that you understand how your accusations that I imposed “ultimatums” and “forced”
you and your client to agree to unconscionable contract terms cannot square with the true facts of
this case. As explained in letters from Messrs. Acosta and Sloman, the indictment was postponed
for more than five months to allow you and Mr. Epstein’s other attorneys to make presentations to
the Office to convince the Office not to prosecute. Those presentations were unsuccessful. As you
mention in your letter, I -a simple line AUSA ~ handled the primary negotiations for the Office, and
conducted those negotiations with you, Ms. Sanchez, Mr. Lewis, and a host of other highly skilled
and experienced practitioners. As you put it, your group has a “combined 250 years experience” to
my fourteen. The agreement itself was signed by Mr. Epstein, Ms. Sanchez, and Mr. Lefcourt,
whose experience speaks for itself. You and I spent hours negotiating the terms, including when to
use “a” versus “the” and other minutiae. When you and I could not reach agreement, you repeatedly
went over my head, involving Messrs. Lourie, Menchel, Sloman, and Acosta in the negotiations at
various times. In any and all plea negotiations the defendant understands that his options are to
plead or to continue with the investigation and proceed to trial. Those were the same options that
were proposed to Mr. Epstein, and they are not “persecution or intimidation tactics.”. Mr. Epstein
chose to sign the agreement with the advice of a multitude of extremely noteworthy counsel.

You also make much of the fact that the names of the victims were not released to Mr.
Epstein prior to signing the Agreement. You never asked for such a term. During an earlier
meeting, where Mr. Black was present, he raised the concern that you now voice. Mr. Black and
I did not have a chance to discuss the issue, but I had already conceived of a way to resolve that

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012579
