Case 1:16-cv-04642 Documenti-1 Filed 06/20/16 Page 2 of 2

8. Immediately following this rape, just like Defendant Trump, Defendant Epstein threatened me
not to ever reveal any of the details of Defendant Epstein’s sexual and physical abuse of me or else my
family and | would be physically harmed if not killed.

9. Both Defendants had let me know that each was a very wealthy, powerful man and indicated
that they had the power, ability and means to carry out their threats. Indeed, Defendant Trump stated
that | shouldn’t ever say anything if | didn’t want to disappear like HEM, a 12-year-old female that was
forced to be involved in the third incident with Defendant Trump and that | had not seen since that third
incident, and that he was capable of having my whole family killed.

10. The duress imposed on me by Defendants not to ever reveal any of the details of the sexual and
physical abuse caused to me by Defendants has not terminated and the fear it has instilled in me has not
subsided. Unfortunately, making matters worse for me, | was subjected to daily painful reminders of
the horrific acts of Defendant Trump via mass media coverage of him starting last summer that, over a
short period of time, became continuous and unavoidable.

11. The duress had prevented me from starting litigation before this year. However, as soon as |
surfaced, | received threats. More specifically, shortly after my first complaint was filed in California on
April 26, 2016, | started receiving threatening phone calls on a cell phone | then owned. The calls were
never for more than 20 seconds or so before they hung up and they were always from a blocked or
unavailable phone number according to my caller ID feature. Since | changed phone numbers, the
threatening calls have completely stopped.

12. This litigation involves matters that are highly sensitive and of a personal nature, and | believe
that identification of me would pose a risk of retaliatory physical harm to me and to others.

13. | have no reason to believe that the Defendants’ threats have ever been lifted or will ever be
lifted and so | request that the Court issue an order protecting me and my family from harm and
harassment by the Defendants.

| declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct.

DATED: June 18, 2016

ne Doe, a pseudonym

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025940
