FirtHy Ricu

school females to provide him sexually lewd and erotic
massages. Police sought felony charges that would have
resulted in a term of imprisonment. According to press
reports, however, in 2006 the State Attorney, in part due
to concerns regarding the quality of the evidence, agreed
to charge Epstein only with one count of aggravated
assault with no intent to commit a felony. That charge

would have resulted in no jail time, no requirement to

CHAPTER 55 7

register as a sexual offender and no restitution for the
underage victims.

Local police were dissatisfied with the State Attor-
. ney’s conclusions, and requested a federal investigation.
or to the general public, Federal authorities received the State’s evidence and
engaged in additional investigation. Prosecutors weighed
the quality of the evidence and the likelihood for success
at trial. With a federal case, there were two additional
considerations. First, a federal criminal prosecution
requires that the crime be more than local; it must have

the Southern District of Florida an interstate nexus. Second, as the matter was initially
r

ver the past weeks, I have read
sy Epstein. Some appears true,
thought it appropriate to provide
» caveats: (i) under Justice Depart

discuss privileged internal com-

charged by the state, the federal responsibility is, to some
extent, to back-stop state authorities to ensure that there
is no miscarriage of justice, and not to also prosecute fed-
erally that which has already been charged at the state
level.

After considering the quality of the evidence and the

mentattorneys and (ii) Ino longer
additional considerations, prosecutors concluded that

| documents, and as the matter 1s q
the state charge was insufficient. In early summer 2007,

-

: precision of memory is reduced. q
was originally presented to the
te Attorney. Palm Beach Police”
‘lawfully hired underage highs

' the prosecutors and agents in this case met with
_ Mr. Epstein’s attorney, Roy Black. Mr. Black is perhaps
best known for his successful defense of William

4

q 4 207

206

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022015
