4.2.12
WC: 191694

The majority opinion began its analysis with the following acknowledgment:

Petitioners argue strenuously that they did not intend to kill as that concept has been
generally understood in the common law. We accept this as true. Traditionally, one
intends certain consequences when he desires that his acts cause those consequences or
knows that those consequences are substantially certain to result from his acts.... As
petitioners point out, there is no evidence that either Ricky or Raymond Tison took any
act which he desired to, or was substantially certain would, cause death.*°

When I read these words, I thought that we had surely won. That was precisely what I had
argued. The Court had accepted my argument in full. It should have followed from this
acceptance that, in the words of one of the justices, “that’s the end of the case.” But it was only
the beginning.

Justice Sandra Day O’Connor, who had dissented in Enmund but was now writing the majority
opinion in the Tison case, then expressed dissatisfaction with the rule that had been established in
Enmund:

A narrow focus on the question of whether or not a given defendant intended to kill,
however, is a highly unsatisfactory means of definitively distinguishing the most culpable
and dangerous of murderers. Many who intend to, and do, kill are not criminally liable at
all — those who act in self defense or with other justification or excuse. Other intentional
homicides, though criminal, are often felt undeserving of the death penalty — those that
are the result of provocation. On the other hand, some nonintentional murderers may be
among the most dangerous and inhumane of all — the person who tortures another not
caring whether the victim lives or dies, or the robber who shoots someone in the course of
the robbery, utterly indifferent to the fact that the desire to rob may have the unintended
consequence of killing the victim as well as taking the victim's property. This reckless
indifference to the value of human life may be every bit as shocking to the moral sense as
an intent to kill.

°° The court then elaborated on its reasoning: The Arizona Supreme Court did not attempt to argue that
the facts of this case supported an inference of intent in the traditional sense. Instead, the Arizona
Supreme Court attempted to reformulate intent to kill as a species of foreseeability. The Arizona
Supreme Court wrote:

Intend [sic] to kill includes the situation in which the defendant intended, contemplated, or
anticipated that lethal force would or might be used or that life would or might be taken in
accomplishing the underlying felony.

This definition of intent is broader than that described by the Enmund Court. Participants in violent
felonies like armed robberies can frequently anticipat[e] that lethal force... might be used... in
accomplishing the underlying felony. Enmund himself may well have so anticipated. Indeed, the
possibility of bloodshed is inherent in the commission of any violent felony and this possibility is
generally foreseeable and foreseen; it is one principal reason that felons arm themselves. The Arizona
Supreme Court's attempted reformulation of intent to kill amounts to little more than a restatement of the
felony-murder rule itself. Petitioners do not fall within the intent to kill category of felony murderers for
which Enmund explicitly finds the death penalty permissible under the Eighth Amendment.

176

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017263
