111

Advancing Strategic Interests Abroad: A Case Study of Hollywood

As its market power mounts, China is increasingly able to leverage foreign corporations
not just to influence their home governments, but also to advance China’s broader
strategic interests around the world. The most visible manifestation of this strategy is
the Party-state’s effort to influence Hollywood in a bid to advance China’s global soft
power agenda.

American popular culture has enjoyed worldwide influence for decades and is a key element of
the country’s soft power. However, by the end of the Hu Jintao era, China’s leaders had begun
calling for their country, too, to become a soft power leader, a theme Xi Jinping has continued
to stress. The subsequent surge in Chinese spending on entertainment, or its “cultural
industries,” as it calls this sector, amid flat revenues in the United States, has made China’s
market a compelling one for Hollywood, despite continued quotas limiting the number
foreign films that can be shown in China. In 2017, the Chinese box office reached $7.9 billion
on growth of 21 percent, whereas the US market grew just 2 percent to $11.1 billion.°° (Foreign
films account for roughly half of China’s total, most of which is attributable to Hollywood.)

In the 2010s, in addition to investing in its domestic film industry and maintaining

a restrictive import regime, the Chinese government encouraged the country’s media
companies to enter into alliances or attempt to acquire outright American entertainment
companies. Collectively, these strategies have raised concerns about self-censorship, the
co-opting of the American film industry to advance Chinese narratives, and ultimately, the
risk that the industry will lose its independence.

Hollywood, represented by the Motion Picture Association of America, has long cultivated
close ties to the American government, which it has used to open access to China. For
example, media scholar Aynne Kokas notes that in 2012, Vice President Joe Biden met with
then Chinese vice president Xi Jinping to discuss China’s quota on foreign films.*! During
Xi’s visit, Biden also helped broker an agreement between DreamWorks and a group of
Chinese investors. Ultimately, in response to these efforts and WTO action, China increased
its annual quota of imported films from twenty to thirty-four.

Film studios can attempt to circumvent the import quota by coproducing films with Chinese
partners. This can invite censorship directly into the production process, potentially
affecting what global audiences see, as opposed to censorship that affects only what the
Chinese market sees.*? Examples abound of studios that have cast Chinese actors, developed
and/or cut scenes specific to the Chinese market, or preemptively eliminated potentially
objectionable references to China from scripts even when source material has called for it.

Aware of the Chinese market’s growing centrality to the film industry, major studios are
also reluctant to produce any film that would upset China, even if that specific film was

Section 7

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020570
