of its chief, Jeff Zucker. Zucker, who as the head of NBC had commissioned 7he
Apprentice, had been “made by Trump,” Trump said of himself in the third person. And
Trump had “personally” gotten Zucker his job at CNN. “Yes, yes, I did,” said Trump.

He then repeated a story that he was obsessively telling almost everyone he spoke to.
He’d gone to a dinner, he didn’t remember when, where he had sat next to “a gentleman
named Kent’—undoubtedly Phil Kent, a former CEO of Turner Broadcasting, the Time
Warner division that oversaw CNN—“and he had a list of four names.” Three of them
Trump had never heard of, but he knew Jeff Zucker because of The Apprentice. “Zucker
was number four on the list, so I talked him up to number one. I probably shouldn’t have
because Zucker is not that smart but I like to show I can do that sort of thing.” But Zucker,
“a very bad guy who has done terrible with the ratings,” had turned around after Trump
had gotten him the job and had said, well, it’s “unbelievably disgusting.” This was the
Russian “dossier” and the “golden shower” story—the practice CNN had accused him of
being party to in the Moscow hotel suite with assorted prostitutes.

Having dispensed with Zucker, the president of the United States went on to speculate
on what was involved with a golden shower. And how this was all just part of a media
campaign that would never succeed in driving him from the White House. Because they
were sore losers and hated him for winning, they spread total lies, 100 percent made-up
things, totally untrue, for instance, the cover that week of 7ime magazine—which, Trump
reminded his listeners, he had been on more than anyone in history—that showed Steve
Bannon, a good guy, saying he was the real president. “How much influence do you think
Steve Bannon has over me?” Trump demanded and repeated the question, and then
repeated the answer: “Zero! Zero!” And that went for his son-in-law, too, who had a lot to
learn.

The media was not only hurting him, he said—he was not looking for any agreement or
really even any response—but hurting his negotiating capabilities, which hurt the nation.
And that went for Saturday Night Live, too, which might think it was very funny but was
actually hurting everybody in the country. And while he understood that SNZ was there to
be mean to him, they were being very, very mean. It was “fake comedy.” He had reviewed
the treatment of all other presidents in the media and there was nothing like this ever, even
of Nixon who was treated very unfairly. “Kellyanne, who is very fair, has this all
documented. You can look at it.”

The point is, he said, that that very day, he had saved $700 million a year in jobs that
were going to Mexico but the media was talking about him in his bathrobe, which “I don’t
have because I’ve never worn a bathrobe. And would never wear one, because I’m not that
kind of guy.” And what the media was doing was undermining this very dignified house,
and “dignity is so important.” But Murdoch, “who had never called me, never once,” was
now calling all the time. So that should tell people something.

The call went on for twenty-six minutes.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019954
