Economic Research: How Increasing Income Inequality Is Dampening U.S. Economic Growth, And Possible Ways
To Change The Tide

there? This will likely require some investment in the human capital of the US. workforce, today and tomorrow. But
studies have indicated that the benefits greatly outweigh the costs. Researchers estimate that, depending on the exact
program, $1,000 in college aid results in a 3- to 6-percentage-point increase in college enrollment, with the total cost in
aid averaging $20,000 to $30,000 to send one student to college (32). Given a college graduate is expected to earn
about $30,000 more per year than a high school graduate over the course of their life, the benefits outweigh the costs.

It also this means more tax revenue from higher income than otherwise would have been the case.

Other new low-cost interventions, like simpler financial aid applications, more outreach about financial aid options that
are available to students from low-income households, as well as offering college mentors to students, could help send
more kids to school and encourage them to stay once they get there (33). Indeed, while the sticker price of a college

degree is high, according to the College Board in 2012, the actual price paid after financial aid is often lower. That may

be enough to encourage more low-income families to enroll.

While most agree that increasing college graduation rates would be a boon for economic growth, what about
education before college? Goldin and Katz argue that the U.S. had pioneered free and accessible elementary
education for most of its citizens and extended its lead into high school education when other countries were
introducing mass elementary school education (34). After World War II, U.S. universities were known to be the best in
the world. But by the early 1970s, Golden and Katz note that high school graduation rates plateaued and have been
relatively flat for more than three decades, and college graduation rates slid backwards. That educational slowdown is
likely the most important reason for increased education wage differentials since 1980 and is a major contributor to

income inequality today.

Even if the U.S. government offers financial aid for college, many high school graduates aren't prepared for the rigors
of university education. The 2003 Program for International Assessment (PISA), for one, showed U.S. 15-year-olds to

be substantially below the OECD average in mathematics literacy, problem solving, and scientific literacy (35).

Increasing aptitude in early education has been discussed in a number of studies. Most point to increasing the quality
of K-12 education to improve high school graduation rates and postsecondary education (36). Some have argued that
inadequate investments by states and local governments in education have weakened the ability of a state to develop,
grow, and attract businesses that offer high-skilled, high-wage jobs (37). The Brookings Institution has found that a
high-quality universal preschool program, costing about $59 billion, could add $2 trillion in annual US. GDP by 2080.
This additional growth would generate enough federal revenue to easily cover its costs several times over (38).
However, the authors note that it is difficult to win support for a short-term investment, like preschool programs, given

the long-term nature of its benefits to the economy.

Catching Up With The Joneses

As income inequality increased before the crisis, less affluent households took on more and more debt to keep up--or,
in this case, catch up--with the Joneses, first by purchasing a new home. Further, when home prices climbed, these
households were willing to borrow against their newfound equity--and financial institutions were increasingly willing to

help them do so, despite slow income growth. A number of economists have pointed to ways in which this trend may

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT AUGUST 5, 2014 14

1351366 | 302136118

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025776
