Two years after Cybernetics, in 1950, Norbert Wiener published Zhe Human Use of
Human Beings—a deeper story, in which he expressed his concerns about the runaway
commercial exploitation and other unforeseen consequences of the new technologies of
control. I didn’t read The Human Use of Human Beings until the spring of 2016, when I
picked up my copy, a first edition, which was sitting in my library next to Cybernetics.
What shocked me was the realization of just how prescient Wiener was in 1950 about
what’s going on today. Although the first edition was a major bestseller—and, indeed,
jump-started an important conversation—under pressure from his peers Wiener brought
out a revised and milder edition in 1954, from which the original concluding chapter,
“Voices of Rigidity,” 1s conspicuously absent.

Science historian George Dyson points out that in this long-forgotten first edition,
Wiener predicted the possibility of a “threatening new Fascism dependent on the machine
a gouverner’’:

No elite escaped his criticism, from the Marxists and the Jesuits (“all of
Catholicism is indeed essentially a totalitarian religion”) to the FBI (“our great
merchant princes have looked upon the propaganda technique of the Russians,
and have found that it is good”) and the financiers lending their support “to make
American capitalism and the fifth freedom of the businessman supreme
throughout the world.” Scientists... received the same scrutiny given the
Church: “Indeed, the heads of great laboratories are very much like Bishops, with
their association with the powerful in all walks of life, and the dangers they incur
of the carnal sins of pride and of lust for power.”

This jeremiad did not go well for Wiener. As Dyson puts it:

These alarms were discounted at the time, not because Wiener was wrong about
digital computing but because larger threats were looming as he completed his
manuscript in the fall of 1949. Wiener had nothing against digital computing but
was strongly opposed to nuclear weapons and refused to join those who were
building digital computers to move forward on the thousand-times-more-powerful
hydrogen bomb.

Since the original of The Human Use of Human Beings is now out of print, lost to
us is Wiener’s cri de coeur, more relevant today than when he wrote it, sixty-eight years
ago: “We must cease to kiss the whip that lashes us.”

Mind, Thinking, Intelligence

Among the reasons we don’t hear much about “Cybernetics” today, two are central: First,
although Zhe Human Use of Human Beings was considered an important book in its time,
it ran counter to the aspirations of many of Wiener’s colleagues, including John von
Neumann and Claude Shannon, who were interested in the commercialization of the new
technologies. Second, computer pioneer John McCarthy disliked Wiener and refused to
use Wiener’s term “Cybernetics.” McCarthy, in turn, coined the term “artificial
intelligence” and became a founding father of that field.

11

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016814
