COWEN
COLLABORATIVE INSIGHTS February 25, 2019

2018. Organto received a license to produce high-CBD strains and Foulimed intends to
cultivate 70 tones of hemp and cannabis for medical purposes. Colombia enjoys an
advantageous climate for cultivating cannabis at a low cost for production, which has
attracted interest from many foreign companies.

2

Mexico

Medical cannabis has been regulated in Mexico since 2017. This regulatory change
followed a favorable Supreme Court ruling for a young girl who treated her Lennox-
Gastaut syndrome with CBD oil in 2015. It is permitted to have medical cannabis
products with up to 1% THC content and these products are regulated by the Health
Ministry. Aurora (through their subsidiary Farmacias Magistrales) recently received a
license to import medical cannabis products containing over 1% THC. Pharamacielo
recently announced a JV with Mexican pharmaceutical company MINO Labs S.A. de CV.
to distribute medical cannabis domestically.

Mexico is the second largest hemp producer in Latin America. The law changed in 2017
to permit the cultivation and processing of industrial hemp. In November 2018, the
government released a list of 38 OTC products — 21 food supplements, 9 cosmetics, 6
edibles or beverages, 2 raw material - that have been approved for sale in the country.
Seven companies received authorization for these products, which includes 2 American,
4 Mexican and 1 Spanish company. These products must contain no more than 1% THC.
Products can be purchased through retail stores and e-commerce sites. The regulatory
agency authorizing these products is the Mexican Federal Commission for Protection
Against Sanitary Risks.

Mexico has announced plans to legalize cannabis for adult-use purposes in 2019, which
would significantly change the shape of the market opportunities. The country would
become the third in the world to implement a nationwide policy to legalize cannabis for
all purposes. In the proposed legislation there would include six types of cultivation
licenses — 1. Personal, 2. Scientific, 3. Therapeutic, 4. Recreational, 5. Pharmaceutical
and 6. Industrial - five manufacturing licenses - 1. Personal, 2. Therapeutic, 3.
Pharmaceutical, 4. Recreational and 5. Industrial - and three distribution licenses - 1.
Therapeutic, 2. Pharmaceutical and 3. Industrial. These considerations are still pending.
While this will bring many changes to the regulatory framework, home-grow has been
legal for personal use since 2015.

Former President Vicente Fox has become a public figure in the cannabis industry by
accepting a position at Khiron Life Sciences, one of the leading Latin American
producers. The company launched a nutraceutical line, Kuida Life Mexico S.A., at the end
of 2018. They receive approval to import CBD-based supplement products for sleep,
digestion and muscle recovery. Khiron also entered a JV with American edibles company
Dixie Brands for distribution in the Latin American market.

Uruguay

Uruguay was the first country in the world to legalize cannabis for all purposes
nationwide in 2017. However, medical cannabis has been regulated in the country since
2013 and an industrial hemp program has been implemented since 2010. The Institution
of Regulation and Control of Cannabis provides regulatory oversight for the medical
market.

There are two licensed producers in Uruguay, and thus, the market has not opened to
many foreign entities. This has led to a shortage of supply for the domestic market.

Addressing supply issues, the country announced plans to rework the framework to
permit more imports and opened applications for up to five more licenses.

COWEN.COM 85

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024901
