For a full overview of investment performance, please refer to Section II: Summary of
Historical Investment Performance.

OPPORTUNITY IN THE HEALTHCARE SECTOR

The Fund Managers believe a number of macro market factors have aligned to create attractive
and lasting conditions for NLV-III’s targeted investment strategy in healthcare technology.
These macro market factors include the following:

e Strong and Sustained Growth in Global Healthcare Markets: Healthcare is one of the
strongest and most dynamic markets within the global economy, with powerful
demographic forces expected to drive growth at rates that will outpace GDP in major
economies for at least the next decade.? This steady and sustained market growth
creates a positive macro environment for investment in the sector.

e Significant Opportunity Created By Healthcare Reform & Restructuring: Through at
least the next decade, the healthcare industry will be going through a period of
significant restructuring as government, private insurance companies, and employers
implement broad reform initiatives that seek to slow the growth of healthcare spending
and limit the threat this burden creates to their long term fiscal viability. In the U.S., the
federal government laid the foundation for these changes with two key pieces of
legislation: the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“ACA”) and the Health
Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH Act”), which are
designed to reduce costs, improve quality, and significantly expand the percentage of
the population with access to healthcare services. Importantly, a component of the
legislation sets aside funding in the form of direct incentives to healthcare providers to
be used to purchase technologies needed to meet the legislation’s requirements. As part
of healthcare reform, government and private payers will need to migrate their
traditional fee-for-service reimbursement models towards more value-centered
approaches that reward outcomes, efficiency, and reduction in waste. Payers are
approaching this goal by slashing costs in areas where viable lower cost solutions are
available, while at the same time investing much more in the adoption of innovative
new products and solutions which can improve outcomes and deliver quantifiable
value, even when considering their additional costs and premium pricing. During this
period of substantial change in the healthcare system, the Fund Managers expect to see
an unusually large number of opportunities to fund companies developing innovative
and impactful new therapeutic products as well as tools and applications that enable the
implementation and realization of healthcare reform’s goals and objectives.

e Rapid Acceleration in Innovation: The Fund Managers believe an unprecedented
period of medical innovation is emerging as decades of research into molecular
mechanisms of disease is being translated into a steady stream of safer and more
effective medicines and the biomarkers to guide their use. Importantly, these products
are providing enormous improvements in both life expectancy and quality of life for
patients with many serious, life-threatening diseases. Although they will come with
premium pricing, these products can decrease the overall costs to the healthcare system
by reducing reliance on equally costly, but less effective and more toxic treatments, by

® CMS, OECD, Eurostat

4 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024015
