Rodney Brooks: The Inhuman Mess Our Machines Have Gotten Us Into
We are ina much more complex situation today than Wiener foresaw, and I am worried
that it is much more pernicious than even his worst imagined fears.

Frank Wilczek: The Unity of Intelligence

The advantages of artificial over natural intelligence appear permanent, while the
advantages of natural over artificial intelligence, though substantial at present, appear
transient.

Max Tegmark: Let’s Aspire to More Than Making Ourselves Obsolete
We should analyze what could go wrong with AI to ensure that it goes right.

Jaan Tallinn: Dissident Messages
Continued progress in AI can precipitate a change of cosmic proportions—a runaway
process that will likely kill everyone.

Steven Pinker: Tech Prophecy and the Underappreciated Causal Power of Ideas
There is no law of complex systems that says that intelligent agents must turn into
ruthless megalomaniacs.

David Deutsch: Beyond Reward and Punishment
Misconceptions about human thinking and human origins are causing corresponding
misconceptions about AGI and how it might be created.

Tom Griffiths: The Artificial Use of Human Beings
Automated intelligent systems that will make good inferences about what people want
must have good generative models for human behavior.

Anca Dragan: Putting the Human into the AI Equation
In the real world, an AI must interact with people and reason about them. People will
have to formally enter the AI problem definition somewhere.

Chris Anderson: Gradient Descent

Just because Al systems sometimes end up in local minima, don’t conclude that this
makes them any less like life. Humans—indeed, probably all life-forms—are often stuck
in local minima.

David Kaiser: “Information” for Wiener, for Shannon, and for Us

Many of the central arguments in The Human Use of Human Beings seem closer to the
19th century than the 21st. Wiener seems not to have fully embraced Shannon’s notion of
information as consisting of irreducible, meaning-free bits.

Neil Gershenfeld: Scaling

Although machine making and machine thinking might appear to be unrelated trends,
they lie in each other’s futures.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016227
