the bank. Taking money away from the donor is a form of costly punishment. It is costly in two ways: the
punisher loses money he could have kept, and the donor loses money that he unfairly kept in his previous
exchange.

When donors kept a significantly larger portion of the original sum, observers punished, paying
the costs. They also reported feeling good about taking down the cheapskates. Where was this honey hit
to the brain coming from?

To figure this out, Fehr and his colleagues put people in a brain scanner and used a technique
called Positron Emission Tomography or PET. This type of scanning provides a picture of how much
glucose is used up by different brain areas during a task. Higher glucose consumption occurs when there
is higher activity in a brain region. When punishers decided to punish a selfish donor, glucose
consumption increased in a region of the brain associated with reward: the dorsal striatum. This region is
also active when you eat ice cream, earn money, and solve an unexpected problem. Punishers incurred a
financial cost, but gained emotional elation and internal reward. It turns out that giving someone his just
deserts feels like eating dessert, but without the caloric gain.

When distinctively promiscuous punishment evolved, it transformed our capacity to cooperate
and to maintain conformity to social norms. It provided us with the tools to not only repair a puncture in
the system of norms, but to feel good about the costs personally incurred. When we punish, we have
served justice and served ourselves a helping of the brain’s rewards. The fossil record doesn’t capture
when we evolved the capacity to punish, as skulls and bones, stone tools, and even paintings are silent on
why someone received a spear through the head — perhaps punished for a wrong doing or perhaps an
enemy, a competitor interested in the same resources, or a suspected lover. No one will ever know. What
we do know is that other primates never punish cheaters who break the norms of cooperation, whereas
hunter-gatherers dotting the continents do. Though people living today as hunter-gatherers are not perfect
replicas of what life was like way back when, they indicate that before we had sophisticated technology,
agriculture, and permanent residences, we had the capacity to minimize the costs of the sucker’s problem.
Whenever this capacity emerged in human evolution, it provided a critical part of the solution to the
problem of large-scale cooperation among unrelated strangers. With many eyes on the look out for
cheaters, and a capacity to take out or ostracize the free riders, cooperation emerged as a stable solution to
problems that are unsolvable at an individual level, including group defense and the acquisition of costly
resources. Punishment enabled humans to live in large, stable cooperative societies, many of whom are
unrelated strangers.

This momentous event in the history of cooperation carried with it a serious cost, bringing
aggression and reward into closer proximity, with the costs of attacking others overshadowed by the

benefits. As I discuss in greater detail in the next chapter, this economic transformation created, as an

Hauser Chapter 1. Nature’s secrets 49

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012795
