president of the United States, Donald J. Trump ...”—a salutation directed more to the
president than to the audience.

Pence cast himself as blandly uninteresting, sometimes barely seeming to exist in the
shadow of Donald Trump. Little leaked out of the Pence side of the White House. The
people who worked for the vice president, were, like Pence himself, people of few words.

In a sense, he had solved the riddle of how to serve as the junior partner to a president
who could not tolerate any kind of comparisons: extreme self-effacement.

“Pence,” said Walsh, “is not dumb.”

Actually, well short of intelligent was exactly how others in the West Wing saw him.
And because he wasn’t smart, he was not able to provide any leadership ballast.

On the Jarvanka side, Pence became a point of grateful amusement. He was almost
absurdly happy to be Donald Trump’s vice president, happy to play the role of exactly the
kind of vice president that would not ruffle Trump’s feathers. The Jarvanka side credited
Pence’s wife, Karen, as the guiding hand behind his convenient meekness. Indeed, he took
to this role so well that, later, his extreme submissiveness struck some as suspicious.

The Priebus side, where Walsh firmly sat, saw Pence as one of the few senior West
Wing figures who treated Priebus as though he was truly the chief of staff. Pence often
seemed like a mere staffer, the ever present note taker in so many meetings.

From the Bannon side, Pence garnered only contempt. “Pence is like the husband in
Ozzie and Harriet, a nonevent,” said one Bannonite.

Although many saw him as a vice president who might well assume the presidency
someday, he was also perceived as the weakest vice president in decades and, in
organizational terms, an empty suit who was useless in the daily effort to help restrain the
president and stabilize the West Wing.

7 OK Ok

During that first month, Walsh’s disbelief and even fear about what was happening in the
White House moved her to think about quitting. Every day after that became its own
countdown toward the moment she knew she wouldn’t be able to take it anymore—which
would finally come at the end of March. To Walsh, the proud political pro, the chaos, the
rivalries, and the president’s own lack of focus and lack of concern were simply
incomprehensible.

In early March, Walsh confronted Kushner and demanded: “Just give me the three
things the president wants to focus on. What are the three priorities of this White House?”

“Yes,” said Kushner, wholly absent an answer, “we should probably have that
conversation.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019978
