tragically uncareful councils of Troy. But now, in an age where connection decides
so much, control over gates has a unique leverage. When you finally can feel out the
topology of our age, when in anger or frustration or hope or wonder you are ready
to act, then this is among the first questions you have to ask. I’m on the topology now,
where are the gates.

Gates in an age of instant, everywhere, smart networks are, you can imagine,
different from the ones that girded Troy or the Tang dynasty. It’s not merely that
they’re made of bits and algorithms not bricks, it’s that the underlying nature of
their power is different. The most visible evidence of this distinction was first
observed by economists a couple of decades ago, as they contemplated the fortunes
of the information age, wealth that had been assembled at an eye-watering pace.
Unlike traditional businesses which turned over time into competitive slugfests with
very low profits, many high-tech firms seemed to run with a new, nearly inverted
logic. “Our understanding of how markets and businesses operate was passed down
to us more than a century ago by figures such as Alfred Marshall,” the economist
Brian Arthur wrote in the Harvard Business Review in the summer of 1996. “It is an
understanding based squarely upon the assumption of diminishing returns:
products or companies that get ahead in a market eventually run into
limitations.”23! Marshall had been the first to name this phenomenon in the 1890s:
“Diminishing Returns”. As any line of business gets more competitive, the profits -
or “returns” to investment - shrink. Henry Ford invents a car, he has no competition
at first and fairly prints money. But Ford doesn’t enjoy his monopoly for long. Pretty
soon the Dodge brothers follow him into business, as does Walter Chrysler and then
a cascade of new auto companies. They all take a piece of the pie; profits for every
carmaking firm diminish. Then the Japanese pile in. The Koreans show up. These
new companies compete with growing intensity. Marginal profits decline for
everyone. Then the Chinese. And the Indians.

As he studied the balance sheets of infotech firms, Arthur noticed something
strange: Returns were increasing over time. As their markets matured some
companies made more marginal money with each passing day, not less. Marshall’s
19t Century industrial economics had never contemplated such a lucrative
arrangement. “Increasing returns,” Arthur explained, “are the tendency for that
which is ahead to get farther ahead. They are mechanisms of positive feedback that
operate—within markets, businesses, and industries—to reinforce that which gains
success or aggravate that which suffers loss.” In other words: Winner takes all. No
second place. Arthur was thinking, as he wrote, about the then-nascent computer
software business. Say for instance, Arthur sent you a copy of his paper to read
before publication as a Microsoft Word document. Well, if you wanted to see what
he had to say, you'd pretty much have to own a copy of Word yourself. If you then

231 As he studied: Brian Arthur, “Increasing Returns and the World of Business”
Harvard Business Review (1996)

159

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018391
