FRANK GEHRY

Raised in Toronto, Canada, Frank Gehry moved with his family
to Los Angeles in 1947. Mr. Gehry received his Bachelor of
Architecture degree from the University of Southern California
in 1954, and he studied City Planning at the Harvard University
Graduate School of Design. In subsequent years, Mr. Gehry
has built an architectural career that has spanned five decades
and produced public and private buildings in America, Europe
and Asia. Hallmarks of Mr. Gehry’s work include a particular
concern that people exist comfortably within the spaces that
he creates, and an insistence that his buildings address the
context and culture of their sites and the budgets of his clients.
His work has earned Mr. Gehry several of the most
significant awards in the architectural field. He was inducted
into the College of Fellows of the American Institute of
Architects in 1974, and his buildings have received over 100
national and regional A.1.A. awards. In 1977, Mr. Gehry was
named recipient of the Arnold W. Brunner Memorial Prize
in Architecture from the American Academy of Arts and
Letters. In 1989, he was awarded the Pritzker Architecture
Prize, perhaps the premiere accolade of the field, honoring
“significant contributions to humanity and the built
environment through the art of architecture.” In 1992, he
received the Wolf Prize in Art (Architecture) from the Wolf
Foundation. In the same year, he was named the recipient of
the Praemium Imperiale Award by the Japan Art Association
to “honor outstanding contributions to the development,
popularization, and progress of the arts.” In 1994, he became
the first recipient of the Dorothy and Lillian Gish Award for
lifetime contribution to the arts. In 1998, Mr. Gehry received
the National Medal of Arts, and he became the first recipient

of the Friedrich Kiesler Prize. In 1999, Mr. Gehry received the
Lotos Medal of Merit from the Lotos Club, and he received
the Gold Medal from the American Institute of Architects.

In 2000, Mr. Gehry received the Gold Medal from the Royal
Institute of British Architects, and he received the Lifetime
Achievement Award from Americans for the Arts. In 2002,
Mr. Gehry received the Gold Medal for Architecture from

the American Academy of Arts and Letters. Mr. Gehry

was named a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and
Letters in 1987, a trustee of the American Academy in Rome
in 1989, and a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and
Sciences in 1991. In 1994, he was bestowed with the title of
Academician by the National Academy of Design. In 1998, he
was named an Honorary Academician by the Royal Academy
of Arts. In 2003, Mr. Gehry was inducted into the European
Academy of Sciences and Arts and he was designated as

a Companion to the Order of Canada. In 2005 Mr. Gehry
received the Ordre National de Legion d’honneur Chevalier
from the French Government. In 2006 he was a first year
inductee into the California Hall of Fame. In 2008, Mr. Gehry
received the Golden Lion Lifetime Achievement Award at
the Venice Biennale. In 2010, Mr. Gehry received the John
Singleton Copley Award from the American Associates of
the Royal Academy Trust, and he received the Cooper Union
for the Advancement of Science and Art Award in New York.
Mr. Gehry has received honorary doctoral degrees from
Occidental College, Whittier College, the California College
of Arts and Crafts, the Technical University of Nova Scotia,
the Rhode Island School of Design, the California Institute
of Arts, the Southern California Institute of Architecture,

the Otis Art Institute at the Parsons School of Design, the
University of Toronto, the University of Southern California,
Yale University, Harvard University, and the University of
Edinburgh. Mr. Gehry has held teaching positions at some of
the world’s most prestigious institutions including Harvard
University, University of Southern California, University
of California Los Angeles, Sci-Arc, University of Toronto,
Columbia University, the Federal Institute of Technology in
Zurich, and at Yale University where he still teaches today.
Notable projects include: the Guggenheim Museum
in Bilbao, Spain; the DZ Bank Building in Berlin; Nationale-
Nederlanden Building in Prague; the Jay Pritzker Pavilion and
BP Bridge in Millennium Park in Chicago, Illinois; Maggie’s
Centre, a cancer patient center in Dundee, Scotland; Hotel
Marques de Riscal in El Ciego, Spain; Lou Ruvo Brain Institute
in Las Vegas, Nevada; Princeton University Peter B. Lewis
Science Library in Princeton, New Jersey; Art Gallery of
Ontario Renovation in Toronto, Ontario, Canada; the New
World Symphony in Miami, Florida; the Eight Spruce Street
Residential Tower located in New York City; and the Walt
Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles, California. Projects under
construction include the Signature Theatre in New York City;
the Ohr O’Keefe Museums in Biloxi, Mississippi; the Make
it Right Foundation in New Orleans, Louisiana, the Puente
de Vida Museum of Biodiversity in Panama; the Frederick
R. Weisman Art Museum Expansion at the University of
Minnesota; and the Foundation Louis Vuitton Museum in
Paris, France. Mr. Gehry is also completing work on the
Guggenheim Abu Dhabi; LUMA Foundation in Arles, France
and the University of Technology, Sydney in Sydney, Australia.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017539
