many respects, Bannon was outgunned and outnumbered, yet he still thought he had it
nailed. And when he won, not only would another grievously stupid chapter in the war in
Afghanistan be avoided, but Jarvanka, and Powell, their factotum, would be further
consigned to irrelevance and powerlessness.

7 OK Ok

As the debate moved toward resolution, the NSC, in its role as a presenter of options
rather than an advocate for them (although of course it was advocating, too), presented
three: withdrawal; Erik Prince’s army of contractors; and a conventional, albeit limited,
surge.

Withdrawal, whatever its merits—and however much a takeover of Afghanistan by the
Taliban could be delayed or mitigated—still left Donald Trump with having lost a war, an
insupportable position for the president.

The second option, a force of contractors and the CIA, was largely deep-sixed by the
CIA. The agency had spent sixteen years successfully avoiding Afghanistan, and everyone
knew that careers were not advanced in Afghanistan, they died in Afghanistan. So please
keep us out of it.

That left McMaster’s position, a modest surge, argued by Secretary of State Tillerson:
more troops in Afghanistan, which, somehow, slightly, would be there on a different basis,
somewhat, with a different mission, subtly, than that of troops sent there before.

The military fully expected the president to sign off on the third option. But on July 19,
at a meeting of the national security team in the situation room at the White House, Trump
lost it.

For two hours, he angrily railed against the mess he had been handed. He threatened to
fire almost every general in the chain of command. He couldn’t fathom, he said, how it
had taken so many months of study to come up with this nothing-much-different plan. He
disparaged the advice that came from generals and praised the advice from enlisted men.
If we have to be in Afghanistan, he demanded, why can’t we make money off it? China,
he complained, has mining rights, but not the United States. (He was referring to a ten-
year-old U.S.-backed deal.) This is just like the 21 Club, he said, suddenly confusing
everyone with this reference to a New York restaurant, one of his favorites. In the 1980s,
21 closed for a year and hired a large number of consultants to analyze how to make the
restaurant more profitable. In the end, their advice was: Get a bigger kitchen. Exactly what
any waiter would have said, Trump shouted.

To Bannon, the meeting was a high point of the Trump presidency to date. The
generals were punting and waffling and desperately trying to save face—they were,
according to Bannon, talking pure “gobbledygook” in the situation room. “Trump was
standing up to them,” said a happy Bannon. “Hammering them. He left a bowel movement
in the middle of their Afghan plans. Again and again, he came back to the same point:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020086
