4.2.12
WC: 191694

not to kill. Because the bomb was inherently dangerous and caused death, the perpetrators were
indicted for capital murder.

In the end, I was able to capitalize on Siegel’s status as an informer, the fact that he was first
discovered by the use of an unlawful wiretap, and the promises that were made to him in order to
secure his cooperation. We obtained a legal ruling from the United States Court of Appeals that
ordered the trial judge to set all the defendants free.

As the trial judge implemented that decision, my client and his co-defendants started to leave the
courtroom, congratulating each other and laughing. The judge turned to them in anger and said,
“Do you know who isn’t in court today? Iris Kones.” As my thoughts turned to the innocent
victim of the Hurok bombing, I heard the judge’s voice grow louder and angrier: “Someone has
committed a dastardly, vicious, unforgettable crime; someone is frustrating the administration of
justice in a case that, in my mind, involves murder. People who deliberately do so will learn the
power of the law even if there are those who have literally gotten away with murder.” While
enunciating these final words, the judge averted his eyes from the young defendants and focused
them directly at me, almost as if to say, “And you are responsible.”

His words went through me like a knife. Never had I been so uncomfortable as I was then, with
the case over and my client entirely victorious. He was right. In one sense I was responsible: I
had devised the novel legal strategy that resulted in the release of guilty defendants whose crime
had caused the death of an innocent young woman.

I sat in court for a full hour after everyone else had left. I wanted no part of the victory
celebration. I could not forget Iris Kones. I’ve thought of her often and of other victims of my
clients who have gone free because of my legal arguments and my investigative work. I think
especially of Iris Kones because she is the only homicide victim who I know was killed by
defendants who I know were guilty and went free. I suspect there were others as well, but I can’t
be absolutely sure of any but Iris Kones, because my client in that case told me, and the world,
that he was guilty.

I also think of Iris Kones because her family—who are active in both Jewish causes and Harvard
University—constantly remind me, and all of our mutual friends and associates, of my role in
freeing the murderers of their relative.

Although I don’t believe in divine justice, it is true that Sheldon Seigel died at a very young age

after an unsuccessful heart transplant. His premature death didn’t make me feel any less
responsible for the unjust, but legally proper, result I helped produce on his case.

216

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017303
