ERSON

tice.

yout complaints they'd gotten

ien hanging around at the end

g at all hours from Epstein’s

to that,” Reiter said in a depo-
uit, brought by a victim, that
we may have encountered one
ne a little bit of surveillance or
r or not they had seen that. I
ystanding that, yes, there were
coming and going from Mr.

1 inquiry, and we were of the

nd [we] were also of the belief

aere could be prostitution. But I

g that we heavily pursued—
>s; its common everywhere in
hey were underage at that point,
tin it.”

nplaints on the day Epstein had
gnation. And when Reiter had
-ouldn't help but notice the tall,
a had brought with him to the

- she was standing so stiffly, eyes
were afraid to speak. Not a kid.
tein did not introduce or even
;, too, seemed odd.

man was Nadia Marcinkova, 4

32

Fittyy RicH

nineteen-year-old beauty who lived at Epstein’s home and was
described, by another girl, in a recorded interview with Detec-
tive Recarey, as one of Epstein’s “like, slaves.”

In September, several months into the investigation, Epstein
calls Reiter directly and asks: Has Palm Beach bought the fire-
arms simulator yet?

Cautiously, Reiter tells him that they’re still doing research.

If the department needs more funds, Epstein says, he'll be
happy to provide them.

Reiter thanks him graciously and hangs up. But he’s certain
now that Epstein knows about the investigation. Thinking about
Epstein’s crimes in Palm Beach makes him shudder. And, Reiter
knows, if the charges are true, things are going to get ugly and
public.

Cops like Reiter are family men, fathers. Some see so much
that they’re no longer surprised by the ways of the world. Still, it
helps to hold on to a natural capacity for outrage. Thefts are easy
to understand: you see something you need, so you take it. Even
murders make a kind of sense once you understand the motiva-
tion. There’s great satisfaction in catching a murderer. But what
Epstein’s been up to is hard to explain.

Who is this guy?

Reiter’s detectives will have to get into Epstein’s head. To nail
him, they'll have to know him. And to do that, they'll have to get
to know the people around him. The police already know about
Wendy. That’s one procurer, but out of how many?

What kind of person would bring children to a child molester?

33

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019149
