4.2.12
WC: 191694

Defending the Former President of the Ukraine Against Murder Charges

In T.S. Eliot’s famous play Murder In The Cathedral—which is loosely based on historical
events—King Henry II is anxious to be rid of Thomas Becket, the Archbishop of Canterbury.
Unwilling to bloody his own hands, the King hints of his wishes to several loyal knights by issuing
a rhetorical challenge: “Will no one rid me of this turbulent priest?” The knights, believing they
are following the King’s command, then murder the Archbishop in the Cathedral.

Lawyers and historians have long debated whether the King was legally, morally or historically
guilty of Becket’s murder. In 2011, I was asked to become involved in what prosecutors believed
was a modern-day, real-life variation on murder in the Cathedral.

My client was the former President of the Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma. Ukrainian prosecutors were
investigating him for ordering the murder of a journalist who was critical of the government. The
journalist was murdered during President Kuchma’s term in office, and the resulting scandal
contributed to the ending of Kuchma’s political career.

Over the next several years, there were investigations but they all exculpated the former president.
But now, a decade later, the prosecutors claimed they had a smoking gun: a surreptitiously
recorded conversation involving President Kuchma in his “oval office” making statements about
the murdered journalist akin to those made by King Henry II about the Archbishop.

The conversations were allegedly recorded on a small Toshiba digital recorder that had been
secreted beneath a couch in the president’s office. The voice on the recording was unmistakably
that of President Kuchma and the words—f he had indeed uttered them—were damning and
incriminating.

My brother and I were retained by a former student of mine, Doug Schoen, a brilliant political
strategist who was counseling the President’s family. Our job was to advise the Ukrainian
lawyers with regard to the recording and other legal and factual issues.

I flew to Kiev to meet my client. It was an emotionally wrenching trip for me, since my
family—including many who were murdered during the Holocaust—came from areas not too far
from Kiev. I wanted to visit Babi Yar, the site of one of the worst mass slaughters of Jewish
residents of the area. I had been told that some members of my mother’s family were almost
certainly among the tens of thousands of victims of the Babi Yar massacres. I asked to visit the
memorial as soon as I got to Kiev. I was shocked to see that there was hardly any memorial to
the murdered Jews. A current resident of Kiev who visited the area, which is just outside the
center of town, wouldn’t even know that the Jewish residents of Kiev were gathered in the area
and systematically shot and thrown into pits. The tiny memorial has a faded plaque that is
extremely vague about what had happened. I knew that under the Soviet regime, there had been
denial and silence. I knew that from the famous poem by the Soviet dissent poet Yevgeny
Yevtushenko,

220

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017307
