but I knew Id only have to do it once.

E.. all four years of school, I had a policy. If I received anything less than an A on the first paper or
non-multiple-choice test in a given class, I would bring 2—3 hours of questions to the grader’s office
hours and not leave until the other had answered them all or stopped out of exhaustion.

This served two important purposes:

I learned exactly how the grader evaluated work, including his or her prejudices and pet peeves.

2. The grader would think long and hard about ever giving me less than an A. He or she would never
consider giving me a bad grade without exceptional reasons for doing so, as he or she knew I'd
come a’knocking for another three-hour visit.

Learn to be difficult when it counts. In school as in life, having a reputation for being assertive will
help you receive preferential treatment without having to beg or fight for it every time.

Think back to your days on the playground. There was always a big bully and countless victims, but
there was also that one small kid who fought like hell, thrashing and swinging for the fences. He or she
might not have won, but after one or two exhausting exchanges, the bully chose not to bother him or her.
It was easier to find someone else.

Be that kid.

Doing the important and ignoring the trivial is hard because so much of the world seems to conspire to
force crap upon you. Fortunately, a few simple routine changes make bothering you much more painful
than leaving you in peace.

It’s time to stop taking information abuse.

Not All Evils Are Created Equal

E.. our purposes, an interruption is anything that prevents the start-to-finish completion of a critical

task, and there are three principal offenders:

1. Time wasters: those things that can be ignored with little or no consequence. Common time
wasters include meetings, discussions, phone calls, web surfing, and e-mail that are unimportant.

2. Time consumers: repetitive tasks or requests that need to be completed but often interrupt high-
level work. Here are a few you might know intimately: reading and responding to e-mail, making
and returning phone calls, customer service (order status, product assistance, etc.), financial or
sales reporting, personal errands, all necessary repeated actions and tasks.

3. Empowerment failures: instances where someone needs approval to make something small
happen. Here are just a few: fixing customer problems (lost shipments, damaged shipments,
malfunctions, etc.), customer contact, cash expenditures of all types.

Let’s look at the prescriptions for all three in turn.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013855
