Leonard, Integral Transformative Practice. | watched him go through a dramatic
personal transformation after participating in Professor of Asian Studies, Frederick
Spiegelberg’s seminar (with meditation lab) about Sri Arubindo’s interpretation of
the Hindu Bible, the Bhagavad-Gita. Shortly after the semester, he climbed into an
abandoned tower on campus to continue his meditation. He remained there for
several months, refusing to come down even after the Stanford Student Health
Service sent a medical school psychiatrist to investigate. | was more than curious
about how it was that this hard drinking, and like his brother Dennis, all night poker
playing, Phi Gamma Delta party boy, had suddenly become a transcendent ascetic.

My girl friend Mary and | signed up for Spiegelberg’s seminar in Indian
Religions. We were made breathless by his accounts of administering a Rorschach
Test to the Indian Saint, Swami Sivananda. He recounted discussions about God
with the artists Paul Klee and Max Ernst and the philosophers Rudolph Otto, Paul
Tillich, Martin Heidegger and Martin Buber. As homework, Mary and | practiced
breathing awareness mediation twice a day. During the year, Spiegelberg
sponsored a visit by the aging but still very lively Aldous Huxley to our seminar. He
also brought us Alan Watts and several lecturers from the Jung Institute of San
Francisco. Shortly after hearing Huxley talk about the spiritual power of a particular
exercise of will and loving thoughts, Mary and | began the daily practice of karessa,
some Call it coitus reservatus. | was eighteen and she was nineteen. We found that
withholding an orgasm in order to achieve nirvanic extinction of all desires and
passions was difficult. We spent hours in karessa meditation, trying to experience
the detachment described in the Bhagadvad Gita. This biblical explication of karma
yoga told how it was that the warrior, Ardjuna, instructed by God Krishna in the form
of his charioteer, was able to detach sufficiently to do his assigned job of killing
without emotional involvement. Ken Wilbur, a modern, self proclaimed pandit, an
academically oriented articulator and intellectual justifier of the dharma, the spiritual
work of Hindu and Buddhist practice, contrasts the nirvana (literally “end”)
composed of emptiness in time and space, dharma Kaya in which “...no objects are

n

arising...” with the lesson of the Bhagavad-Gita. Its message involved realizing

10

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013510
