Kittens & Gorillas 155

The mathematical reason for it being a false paradox is that some
series converge and some do not. If I move progressively closer and
closer to something in smaller and smaller time intervals then I may
indeed reach it. On the other hand, some series never converge. I will
never reach infinity how ever many steps I take.

The Barber Paradox
Now, for a slightly harder paradox, let’s suppose there is a town with just
one barber.

In this town, every man keeps himself clean-shaven by either
shaving himself or going to the barber; the barber shaves all the men in
town who do not shave themselves. All this seems perfectly logical, until
we pose the question: who shaves the barber?

This question results in a paradox because, according to the
statement above, he can either be shaven by himself or the barber, which
is he. However, neither of these possibilities is valid! This is because if
the barber shaves himself, then the barber must not shave himself and if
the barber does not shave himself, then the barber must shave himself.

You might think this paradox an oddity but, using this simple idea,
Bertrand Russell changed the course of mathematical history and it is
the fundamental paradox used to show computers are Turing limited.

The Russell Paradox
In the late 19 century, mathematicians began to think about the nature
of numbers.

What is a number?

It is certainly not an object we can hold.

I can't hold a two, unless it’s the brass number plate, for my front
door. And, in that case I am holding one number plate, so I am not
holding the idea of two, but rather the idea of one: one brass plate in the
shape of a two.

The ‘idea’ of a number is to say something about the things I have in
my hand: two apples, two oranges and two brass number plates. These
are all sets of two things and ‘two’ is the collection of all these sets.

In 1890, Gottlob Frege completed his theory of sets. The project had
taken him five years. Unfortunately, just before sending the book to the
publisher, Bertrand Russell wrote to him and pointed out the following
paradox. What about the set of sets that does not contain itself? Think
about it...

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015845
