BW: Well, about six people.

Trump: They don’t tell me.

BW: A senator. I talked to Kellyanne about it two and a half months ago.

Trump: [?].

BW: She came for lunch.

Trump: Well, it’s too bad. Of course, you and I had a conversation a couple of years ago,

and so that I think got you there a little bit. And we had a conversation many years ago, if
you remember, in Trump Tower.

BW: Yeah, I do.

Trump: That has to be 20 years ago. And you were thinking about doing a book about me
then, which is interesting. Who knew it would’ve been on this subject? Right? That was not
in the cards at that time.

BW: That’s right. Well, I’m sorry, I. ..

Trump: I still remember that.

BW: I spent a lot of time on this, talked to lots of people.

Trump: All right. Good.

BW: And as you know and are living, we are at a pivot point in history.

Trump: Right.

BW: And I would’ve liked to have done that, and I maximized my effort, and somehow it
didn’t get to you, or...

Trump: It’s really too bad, because nobody told me about it, and I would’ve loved to have
spoken to you. You know I’m very open to you. I think you’ve always been fair. We’ll see
what happens. But all I can say is the country is doing very well. We’re doing better
economically just about than at any time. We’re doing better on unemployment maybe than
ever. You know, I mean, if you look at the unemployment numbers, you’ve heard me say it.
And we’re doing better on unemployment than just about ever. We’re having a lot of — a lot
of companies are moving back into our country, which would’ve been unheard of two years
ago. If the other administration or representatives of it had kept going, had kept — you
know, if the other group had won, I will tell you, that you would have, I think you’d have a

GDP of less than zero. I think we would’ve been going in the wrong direction. Because
regulations are such a big part of what we’ve done, Bob.

BW: Well, I understand that point of view. And as you know, it’s also a difficult time where
the political system and you and my business is being tested.

Trump: Yeah. Yeah.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_033317
