Jan Loeys Global Asset Allocation
(1-212) 834-5874 The J.P. Morgan View J.P. Morgan

jan.loeys@jpmorgan.com 09 November 2012

Disclosures

Analyst Certification: The research analyst(s) denoted by an “AC” on the cover of this report certifies (or, where multiple research
analysts are primarily responsible for this report, the research analyst denoted by an “AC” on the cover or within the document
individually certifies, with respect to each security or issuer that the research analyst covers in this research) that: (1) all of the views
expressed in this report accurately reflect his or her personal views about any and all of the subject securities or issuers; and (2) no part of
any of the research analyst's compensation was, is, or will be directly or indirectly related to the specific recommendations or views
expressed by the research analyst(s) in this report.

Analysts' Compensation: The research analysts responsible for the preparation of this report receive compensation based upon various
factors, including the quality and accuracy of research, client feedback, competitive factors, and overall firm revenues.

Other Disclosures

J.P. Morgan (JPM) is the global brand name for J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (JPMS) and its affiliates worldwide. J.P. Morgan Cazenove is a marketing
name for the U.K. investment banking businesses and EMEA cash equities and equity research businesses of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries.

Options related research: If the information contained herein regards options related research, such information is available only to persons who have
received the proper option risk disclosure documents. For a copy of the Option Clearing Corporation's Characteristics and Risks of Standardized Options,
please contact your J.P. Morgan Representative or visit the OCC's website at http://www.optionsclearing.com/publications/risks/riskstoc.pdf

Legal Entities Disclosures

U.S.: JPMS is a member of NYSE, FINRA, SIPC and the NFA. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is a member of FDIC and is authorized and regulated in the
UK by the Financial Services Authority. U.K.: J.P. Morgan Securities plc (JPMS plc) is a member of the London Stock Exchange and is authorized and
regulated by the Financial Services Authority. Registered in England & Wales No. 2711006. Registered Office 25 Bank Street, London, E14 5JP. South
Africa: J.P. Morgan Equities Limited is a member of the Johannesburg Securities Exchange and is regulated by the FSB. Hong Kong: J.P. Morgan
Securities (Asia Pacific) Limited (CE number AAJ321) is regulated by the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and the Securities and Futures Commission in
Hong Kong. Korea: J.P. Morgan Securities (Far East) Ltd, Seoul Branch, is regulated by the Korea Financial Supervisory Service. Australia: J.P. Morgan
Australia Limited (ABN 52 002 888 011/AFS Licence No: 238188) is regulated by ASIC and J.P. Morgan Securities Australia Limited (ABN 61 003 245
234/AFS Licence No: 238066) is a Market Participant with the ASX and regulated by ASIC. Taiwan: J.P.Morgan Securities (Taiwan) Limited is a
participant of the Taiwan Stock Exchange (company-type) and regulated by the Taiwan Securities and Futures Bureau. India: J.P. Morgan India Private
Limited, having its registered office at J.P. Morgan Tower, Off. C.S.T. Road, Kalina, Santacruz East, Mumbai - 400098, is a member of the National Stock
Exchange of India Limited (SEBI Registration Number - INB 230675231/INF 230675231/INE 230675231) and Bombay Stock Exchange Limited (SEBI
Registration Number - INB 010675237/INF 010675237) and is regulated by Securities and Exchange Board of India. Thailand: JPMorgan Securities
(Thailand) Limited is a member of the Stock Exchange of Thailand and is regulated by the Ministry of Finance and the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Indonesia: PT J.P. Morgan Securities Indonesia is a member of the Indonesia Stock Exchange and is regulated by the BAPEPAM LK.
Philippines: J.P. Morgan Securities Philippines Inc. is a member of the Philippine Stock Exchange and is regulated by the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Brazil: Banco J.P. Morgan S.A. is regulated by the Comissao de Valores Mobiliarios (CVM) and by the Central Bank of Brazil. Mexico: J.P.
Morgan Casa de Bolsa, S.A. de C.V., J.P. Morgan Grupo Financiero is a member of the Mexican Stock Exchange and authorized to act as a broker dealer
by the National Banking and Securities Exchange Commission. Singapore: This material is issued and distributed in Singapore by J.P. Morgan Securities
Singapore Private Limited (JPMSS) [MICA (P) 088/04/2012 and Co. Reg. No.: 199405335R] which is a member of the Singapore Exchange Securities
Trading Limited and is regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) and/or JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Singapore branch (JPMCB
Singapore) which is regulated by the MAS. Malaysia: This material is issued and distributed in Malaysia by JPMorgan Securities (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd
(18146-X) which is a Participating Organization of Bursa Malaysia Berhad and a holder of Capital Markets Services License issued by the Securities
Commission in Malaysia. Pakistan: J. P. Morgan Pakistan Broking (Pvt.} Ltd is a member of the Karachi Stock Exchange and regulated by the Securities
and Exchange Commission of Pakistan. Saudi Arabia: J.P. Morgan Saudi Arabia Ltd. is authorized by the Capital Market Authority of the Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia (CMA) to carry out dealing as an agent, arranging, advising and custody, with respect to securities business under licence number 35-07079
and its registered address is at 8th Floor, Al-Faisaliyah Tower, King Fahad Road, P.O. Box 51907, Riyadh 11553, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Dubai:
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Dubai Branch is regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority (DFSA) and its registered address is Dubai
International Financial Centre - Building 3, Level 7, PO Box 506551, Dubai, UAE.

Country and Region Specific Disclosures

U.K. and European Economic Area (EEA): Unless specified to the contrary, issued and approved for distribution in the U.K. and the EEA by JPMS ple.
Investment research issued by JPMS plc has been prepared in accordance with JPMS plc's policies for managing conflicts of interest arising as a result of
publication and distribution of investment research. Many European regulators require a firm to establish, implement and maintain such a policy. This
report has been issued in the U.K. only to persons of a kind described in Article 19 (5), 38, 47 and 49 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
(Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (all such persons being referred to as relevant persons). This document must not be acted on or relied on by persons
who are not relevant persons. Any investment or investment activity to which this document relates is only available to relevant persons and will be
engaged in only with relevant persons. In other EEA countries, the report has been issued to persons regarded as professional investors (or equivalent) in
their home jurisdiction. Australia: This material is issued and distributed by JPMSAL in Australia to wholesale clients only. PMSAL does not issue or
distribute this material to retail clients. The recipient of this material must not distribute it to any third party or outside Australia without the prior written
consent of JPMSAL. For the purposes of this paragraph the terms wholesale client” and retail client have the meanings given to them in section 761G of
the Corporations Act 2001. Germany: This material is distributed in Germany by J.P. Morgan Securities ple, Frankfurt Branch and J.P.Morgan Chase
Bank, N.A., Frankfurt Branch which are regulated by the Bundesanstalt fiir Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht. Hong Kong: The 1% ownership disclosure as of
the previous month end satisfies the requirements under Paragraph 16.5({a) of the Hong Kong Code of Conduct for Persons Licensed by or Registered with
the Securities and Futures Commission. (For research published within the first ten days of the month, the disclosure may be based on the month end data
from two months prior.) J.P. Morgan Broking (Hong Kong) Limited is the liquidity provider/market maker for derivative warrants, callable bull bear

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026578
