dung become impure and drinking their milk will be unlawful). As a young boy growing
up in the American Midwest, I remember being both horrified and bewildered after
coming across these precise passages in a translated volume of Khomeini's sayings I found

in our Persian émigré home.

Scholars of Shiism -- including harsh critics of Khomeini -- emphasize that such themes
were the norm among clerics of Khomeini's generation and should be understood in their
proper context: Islam was a religion that emerged out of a rural desert, and the Prophet
Mohammed was himself once a shepherd. Whereas religions like Christianity and Judaism
simply declare such behavior to be sinful, Islam addresses them from a juridical point of

view.

The underlying problem, says Islamic scholar Mehdi Khalaji, a former seminary student in
the Shiite epicenter of Qom, is not that such issues were addressed, but the fact that
Islamic jurisprudence hasn't yet been modernized. It's totally disconnected from the

issues that modern, urban people have to deal with.

Indeed, Khomeini's religious prescriptions are often the butt of jokes among Iran's post-
revolutionary generations. I've never even seen a camel in Tehran,” prominent Iranian

cartoonist Nikahang Kowsar told me, let alone been tempted to have sex with one.

IF THERE IS A DOUBLE ENTENDRE that aptly captures today's Middle East, it is
the youth bulge.” The Arab world's median age is 22, Iran's is 27; Western Europe's, by
contrast, is near 40. High levels of Internet and satellite television penetration, with their
pervasive pornography, coupled with the region's youthful demographics, have

accentuated the Muslim Middle East's fraught relationship with sexuality.

Google Trends, which monitors searches from around the world, shows that of the seven
countries that most frequently search the word sex on Google, five are Muslim and

one (India) has a large Muslim minority. (The word sexy is even more popular among
Arabs.) Google Insights, another trend spotter, shows that the most rapidly rising search
term for Iranians so far in 2012 has been Golshifteh Farahani, a popular exiled actress

who in January posed topless for the French magazine Madame Figaro.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026554
