Tom Griffiths is Henry R. Luce Professor of Information, Technology, Consciousness,
and Culture at Princeton University. He is co-author (with Brian Christian) of Algorithms
to Live By.

W. Daniel “Danny” Hillis is an inventor, entrepreneur, and computer scientist, Judge
Widney Professor of Engineering and Medicine at USC, and author of The Pattern on the
Stone: The Simple Ideas That Make Computers Work.

Caroline A. Jones is a professor of art history in the Department of Architecture at MIT
and author of Eyesight Alone: Clement Greenberg’s Modernism and the
Bureaucratization of the Senses; Machine in the Studio: Constructing the Postwar
American Artist; and The Global Work of Art.

David Kaiser is Germeshausen Professor of the History of Science and professor of
physics at MIT, and head of its Program in Science, Technology & Society. He is the
author of How the Hippies Saved Physics: Science, Counterculture, and the Quantum
Revival and American Physics and the Cold War Bubble (forthcoming).

Seth Lloyd is a theoretical physicist at MIT, Nam P. Suh Professor in the Department of
Mechanical Engineering, and an external professor at the Santa Fe Institute. He is the
author of Programming the Universe: A Quantum Computer Scientist Takes on the
Cosmos.

Hans Ulrich Obrist is artistic director of the Serpentine Gallery, London, and the author
of Ways of Curating and Lives of the Artists, Lives of the Architects.

Judea Pearl is professor of computer science and director of the Cognitive Systems
Laboratory at UCLA. His most recent book, co-authored with Dana Mackenzie, is Zhe
Book of Why: The

Alex “Sandy” Pentland is Toshiba Professor and professor of media arts and sciences,
MIT; director of the Human Dynamics and Connection Science labs and the Media Lab
Entrepreneurship Program, and the author of Social Physics.

New Science of Cause and Effect.

Steven Pinker, a Johnstone Family Professor in the Department of Psychology at
Harvard University, is an experimental psychologist who conducts research in visual
cognition, psycholinguistics, and social relations. He is the author of eleven books,
including The Blank Slate, The Better Angels of Our Nature, and, most recently,
Enlightenment Now: The Case for Reason, Science, Humanism, and Progress.

Venki Ramakrishnan is a scientist at the Medical Research Council Laboratory of
Molecular Biology, Cambridge University; recipient of the Nobel Prize in Chemistry
(2009); current president of the Royal Society; and the author of Gene Machine: The
Race to Discover the Secrets of the Ribosome.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016223
