Edwards adv. Epstein
Telephone interview with Virginia Roberts
Page 5 of 23

had frames, some of them were out of frames, but they were all, like I said, they were all
women, they were all sexual in nature.

JS: | Was it your impression that there were a hundred photos of a hundred different people or
were there multiple photos of the same woman or girl?

V: There was definitely a lot of different girls. I mean it wasn’t easy to sit there and say,
you weren’t finding 5 girls out of some photos, no. Were there a hundred different ones?
There could have been pictures of some girls, I really couldn’t get close necessarily to
actually recognize faces or anything like that. But if you, you know, the range of them
were all different, majority of them were different, yeah.

JS: Did there ever come a point in time when you became aware that a photograph of you
had been added to the collection?

V: Yes, there was. Ghislaine took several nude photographs of me for Jeffrey. So, yeah,
there were pictures of me and there were pictures, he wasn’t shy, that wasn’t the only
place in his house that he kept the photos. He liked photos all over his house. If you
looked in his den or on his desk or in on the hall table, a giant hall table in his house,
there were at least a hundred photos of girls in frames. Not all of them were naked, a lot
of the ones that were all around his house were not naked girls posing pornographically,
some were pictures of celebrities and politicians he had known_or things like that or had
pants on or whatever, but yeah, there was a lot of mixed photographs in the outside ones.

JS: | Were there any photographs of girls or young women that you knew or that you
subsequently came to know that you saw in the house?

V: Yeah, yeah, there was. There was pictures of Nadia Bjournik ,» pictures
Sarah Keller, pictures Emmy, pictures of me, pictures of the regulars, but a lot of the
girls, sometimes Jeffrey could have like 7 girls a day, and he would only see those girls
once if he got bored. I don’t know. These weren’t my days. I heard he’s gotten a lot
sloppier since I left. So, I don’t know anyways, but when I knew him, there was just a, it
seemed, there was such an influx of girls coming in and out, so did I recognize a lot of
them? Maybe, maybe not, but then they were all definitely beautiful, they were all
ranging in age, some of them young, some of them older in their 20’s, I mean it was just
they were all beautiful.

JS: | You’ve told us about the first visit. Was there any discussion on the occasion of that first
visit about your returning?
V: Yes, they were very pleased with me and after the encounter was finished, the sexual

encounter, he went and told me I did well and J have a lot of potential to become a
massage therapist and if I’d like I could return tomorrow, you know, and do the same
thing and get paid $200/hr, so Jeffrey insisted that I come after work, and over the next
few days, I guess the relationship grew into more, and within a couple of weeks, not even

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012111
