72 CASSELL ET AL. [Vol. 104
respect for the victim’s dignity and privacy,”°’ a broad right that does not
appear to be directly linked to a filed court case. Similarly, the CVRA
promises victims the “reasonable right to confer with the attorney for the
Government in the case.”**® In this section, the CVRA’s drafters appear to
have eschewed a reference to court proceedings, using a broader term
instead. Of course, a “case” can refer both to a judicial case before a court
and an investigative case pursued by a law enforcement officer. It is
common usage to say such things as, “The police officer investigated and
solved the case.” Dictionary definitions of the word “case” support this
varied interpretation.”

If there remained any doubts about whether the CVRA applies during
the investigative part of the criminal justice process, two other provisions in
the CVRA resolve them. The CVRA specifically directs that “[o|fficers
and employees of the Department of Justice and other departments and
agencies of the United States engaged in the defection, investigation, or
prosecution of crime shall make their best efforts to see that crime victims
are notified of, and accorded, the rights described in [the CVRA].’°° Of
course, there would be no reason to direct that agencies involved in the
“detection” and “investigation” of crime have CVRA obligations if the Act
did not extend to pre-charging situations. Congress thus directly envisioned
the victims’ rights law to apply during the “detection” and “investigation”
phases of criminal cases.

Similarly, the CVRA’s venue provision instructs that crime victims
who seek to assert rights in pre-charging situations should proceed in the
court where the crime was committed: “The rights described in subsection
(a) [of the CVRA] shall be asserted in the district court in which a
defendant is being prosecuted for the crime or, if no prosecution is
underway, in the district court in the district in which the crime occurred.”*!
Here again, it is hard to see why this provision would be necessary unless
the CVRA applies before the formal filing of charges.

For all these reasons, the CVRA’s plain language indicates that the
victims have protected rights under the Act even before charges are filed.

7 Td. § 3771 (ay(8).

%8 Td. § 3771(a)(5) (emphasis added).

»° See, e.g., BLack’s Law Dictionary 243-44 (9th ed. 2009) (defining, among the
definitions of “case,” a “test case” as “[a] criminal investigation” as in “the Manson case”);
WEBSTER’S THIRD NEW INTERNATIONAL DICTIONARY OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE
UNABRIDGED 345 (1993) (defining “case” as “a circumstance or situation (as a crime)
requiring investigation or action by the police or other agency”).

6 18 US.C. § 3771(c)(1) (emphasis added).

6! Td. § 3771(d)(3) (emphasis added).

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014051
