relation), who had started Spy magazine, a New York imitation of the British satirical
publication Private Eye. Spy was part of a set of 1980s publications—Manhattan, Inc., a
relaunched Vanity Fair, and New York— obsessed with the new rich and what seemed to
be a transformational moment in New York. Trump was both symbol of and punch line for
this new era of excess and celebrity and the media’s celebration of those things. Graydon
Carter became the editor of the New York Observer in 1991 and not only refocused the
weekly on big-money culture, but essentially made it a tip-sheet for the media writing
about media culture, and for members of the big-money culture who wanted to be in the
media. There may never have been such a self-conscious and self-referential publication
as the New York Observer.

As Donald Trump, along with many others of this new-rich ilk, sought to be covered
by the media—Murdoch’s New York Post was the effective court recorder of this new
publicity-hungry aristocracy—the New York Observer covered the process of him being
covered. The story of Trump was the story of how he tried to make himself a story. He
was shameless, campy, and instructive: if you were willing to risk humiliation, the world
could be yours. Trump became the objective correlative for the rising appetite for fame
and notoriety. Trump came to believe he understood everything about the media—who
you need to know, what pretense you need to maintain, what information you could
profitably trade, what lies you might tell, what lies the media expected you to tell. And the
media came to believe it knew everything about Trump—his vanities, delusions, and lies,
and the levels, uncharted, to which he would stoop for ever more media attention.

Graydon Carter soon used the New York Observer as his stepping-stone to Vanity Fair
—where, he believed, he might have access to a higher level of celebrity than Donald
Trump. Carter was followed at the Observer in 1994 by Peter Kaplan, an editor with a
heightened sense of postmodern irony and ennui.

Trump, in Kaplan’s telling, suddenly took on a new persona. Whereas he had before
been the symbol of success and mocked for it, now he became, in a shift of zeitgeist (and
of having to refinance a great deal of debt), a symbol of failure and mocked for it. This
was a complicated reversal, not just having to do with Trump, but of how the media was
now seeing itself. Donald Trump became a symbol of the media’s own self-loathing: the
interest in and promotion of Donald Trump was a morality tale about the media. Its
ultimate end was Kaplan’s pronouncement that Trump should not be covered anymore
because every story about Donald Trump had become a cliché.

An important aspect of Kaplan’s New York Observer and its self-conscious inside
media baseball was that the paper became the prime school for a new generation of media
reporters flooding every other publication in New York as journalism itself became ever
more self-conscious and self-referential. To everyone working in media in New York,
Donald Trump represented the ultimate shame of working in media in New York: you
might have to write about Donald Trump. Not writing about him, or certainly not taking

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019940
