Exhibit 44: Emerging Market GDP Growth
We expect growth roughly in line with potential.

% YoY {PPP Weighted)
10 5

Actual GDP Forecast

Se Potential GDP

|
|

8

A

a

|
|
|

3

1993 1996 1999 2002 2005 2008 2011 2014 2017

Data as of 2016.

Note: ISG forecasts for 2016-17. For informational purposes only. There can be no assurance the
forecasts will be achieved.

Source: Investment Strategy Group, IMF.

large fiscal stimulus package last August and a
shift by the BOJ away from ever-higher purchases
of Japanese government bonds (JGBs). Instead,
the BOJ will now use a “yield-curve control”
framework, wherein it sets the short rate and
targets a yield of about 0% on 10-year JGBs. This
novel approach should afford the government
low real interest rates with which to finance its
fiscal expansion, while also providing Japanese
financial institutions with a sufficiently steep yield
curve to remain profitable. To augment these
deflation-fighting measures, the government also
implemented some modest structural reforms and
called for a substantial increase in the minimum
wage in order to support faster income growth.
Against this backdrop of supportive policies,
we expect that GDP will grow by 0.75-1.5%
in 2017. Our forecast is supported by three key
drivers. First, the fiscal stimulus announced in
August is poised to contribute 0.4 percentage point
to 2017 GDP growth, and the government has
indicated a willingness to do more if necessary.
Second, the BOJ remains very accommodative,
thereby providing easy financial conditions that
should foster an uptick in business investment.
While the central bank may consider a modest
rate increase in late 2017, we expect it to maintain
its negative interest rate policy (NIRP) for short
rates and a 0% target for 10-year JGB yields in the
interim. Lastly, the government is likely to push
for further wage increases during the spring wage
negotiations.

These pro-growth policies, coupled with less
slack in the economy and a boost from higher
energy prices and past yen appreciation, should
enable core inflation (excluding fresh food) to
reach our expected range of 0.25-1.0%. While
Japan may have lost its battles against deflation
over the years, it has not yet lost the war.

Emerging Markets: Competing Forces

Emerging market economies failed to live up

to expectations once again in 2016, with GDP
expanding by an estimated 3.9% versus original
expectations closer to 5.0%. This marked the
second-slowest growth rate in 15 years; only the
2.6% expansion at the depth of the global financial
crisis in 2009 was slower. Yet this disappointing
headline belies the economic recovery that
unfolded over the course of 2016. Consider that
growth actually troughed during a challenging

first quarter, with economic activity gradually
improving thereafter on the back of recovering
commodity prices, the Federal Reserve’s willingness
to delay any further rate hikes and stable Chinese
growth. These tailwinds were bolstered into the
final quarter by early signs of recovery in Brazil
and Russia, both of which had suffered deep
recessions in 2015.

We expect this momentum to persist, with GDP
increasing by 4.3-4.8% (purchasing power parity
[PPP] weighted) this year, roughly in line with
potential (see Exhibit 44). The pickup we expect
is the product of two opposing forces. On the one
hand, growth should benefit from the ongoing
recoveries in Brazil and Russia, and somewhat
stronger activity in developed economies should
provide a small tailwind to emerging market
exports. On the other hand, the further moderation
in Chinese growth we expect is likely to weigh on
activity across emerging markets, particularly if the
US imposes tariffs.

Indeed, the policy agenda of the incoming US
administration remains a critical unknown for
emerging markets. Even if protectionist tariffs
were directed only at China and Mexico—which
account for 23% and 15% of US imports of
manufactured goods, respectively—they would still
negatively impact all emerging markets given the
sensitivity of these countries to Chinese growth and
fluctuations in the Chinese currency. This being the
case, countries with substantial trade exposure to

Outlook | Investment Strategy Group 45

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014578
