148 8 Cognitive Synergy

processes in terms of the “analysis vs. synthesis” distinction. Finally, Tables ?? and ?? exemplify
these structures and processes in the context of embodied virtual agent control.

In the CogPrime context, a procedure in this cognitive schematic is a program tree stored
in the system’s procedural knowledge base; and a context is a (fuzzy, probabilistic) logical
predicate stored in the AtomSpace, that holds, to a certain extent, during each interval of time.
A goal is a fuzzy logical predicate that has a certain value at each interval of time, as well.

Attentional knowledge is handled in CogPrime by the ECAN artificial economics mechanism,
that continually updates ShortTermImportance and LongTerm Importance values associated
with each item in the CogPrime system’s memory, which control the amount of attention other
cognitive mechanisms pay to the item, and how much motive the system has to keep the
item in memory. HebbianLinks are then created between knowledge items that often possess
ShortTermImportance at the same time; this is CogPrime’s version of traditional Hebbian
learning.

ECAN has deep interactions with other cognitive mechanisms as well, which are essential
to its efficient operation; for instance, PLN inference may be used to help ECAN extrapolate
conclusions about what is worth paying attention to, and MOSES may be used to recognize
subtle attentional patterns. ECAN also handles “assignment of credit”, the figuring-out of the
causes of an instance of successful goal-achievement, drawing on PLN and MOSES as needed
when the causal inference involved here becomes difficult.

The synergies between CogPrime’s cognitive processes are well summarized below, which is
a 16x16 matrix summarizing a host of interprocess interactions generic to CST.

One key aspect of how CogPrime implements cognitive synergy is PLN’s sophisticated man-
agement of the confidence of judgments. This ties in with the way OpenCogPrime’s PLN in-
ference framework represents truth values in terms of multiple components (as opposed to the
single probability values used in many probabilistic inference systems and formalisms): each
item in OpenCogPrime’s declarative memory has a confidence value associated with it, which
tells how much weight the system places on its knowledge about that memory item. This assists
with cognitive synergy as follows: A learning mechanism may consider itself “stuck”, generally
speaking, when it has no high-confidence estimates about the next step it should take.

Without reasonably accurate confidence assessment to guide it, inter-component interaction
could easily lead to increased rather than decreased combinatorial explosion. And of course
there is an added recursion here, in that confidence assessment is carried out partly via PLN
inference, which in itself relies upon these same synergies for its effective operation.

To illustrate this point further, consider one of the synergetic aspects described in ?? below:
the role cognitive synergy plays in deductive inference. Deductive inference is a hard problem
in general - but what is hard about it is not carrying out inference steps, but rather “inference
control” (i.e., choosing which inference steps to carry out). Specifically, what must happen for
deduction to succeed in CogPrime is:

1. the system must recognize when its deductive inference process is “stuck”, i.e. when the
PLN inference control mechanism carrying out deduction has no clear idea regarding which
inference step(s) to take next, even after considering all the domain knowledge at is disposal

2. in this case, the system must defer to another learning mechanism to gather more informa-
tion about the different choices available - and the other learning mechanism chosen must,
a reasonable percentage of the time, actually provide useful information that helps PLN to
get “unstuck” and continue the deductive process

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013064
