early on I told you I thought Tom remarkably careless . Eilleen goofy and your art lawyer not well
informed to say the least. you told me Tom was a senior partner. Eileen had headed the trading desk , and
Ralph Lerner had to know what he was doing as he wrote the book. . I said I thought you deserved
better ,should get better people and no , Iam not an HR person. yesterday you told me that the reason
you have hired whomver you could find was to avoid being dependent on me. a decision by far , not the
best place to try to save money )

Joslin- who you say I hired . I neither found nor hired. With a two person given choice I approved joslin
over some woman that eileen preferred. against my repeated advice you and eileen decided the pay range
at under 300k . I told you at that time that I would personally pay the difference for a higher quality
person, that was years ago . I have sent over a hundred emails to you clearly saying he needs to be
closely managed by better professionals. initially , that referred to Eillen and Ada.and after, brad. john
etc. THere are many emails each and every month from me, telling you , he is slipping failing cracking
fragile. . crazy, nuts, heading towards incompetence. Unless YOU- TAKE ACTION! when I pressured
him for accurate numbers , you told him, to tell me, that he works for you and NOT for me. . When I
continued to press for accuracy from your office , you told me that they were now all afraid of me and 1
should let brad communicate any requests, ( you now tell me  we know what Brad is?). When I told you
you office needs to be reviewed and changed you told me 1 was being destructive rather than
constructive. when i ultimately confronted joslin, in an attempt to protect you, told him that his numbers
were wildly inaccurate , you told me that i had caused his ultimate resignation and now have an
affirmative obligation to fill in the resultant gap.

I did give you a bad number , and apologized as soon as i realized it. an error that was an embarrassment
forme, the fact that that the accurate number is still way below what you agreed to pay , has fallen by
the wayside.( the preposterous argument that the end of year transaction was Alans idea , which you now
know was not true and that me not receiving Phaidon documents was unexplainable. was your justification
though, for non - full payment )

Hopefully You will recall that when you initially asked for my help. I declined repeatedly with the
admonition that that having a financial arrangement is fraught with danger and could complitcate our
friendship (as you will be unhappy paying what you will view as a large sum. while choosing to ignore
the financial benefits, ). In Bedford , I repeated my concern. THe current circumstance is distressing to
me, Ihave done my utmost to keep you safe. and will continue to do so. reckless choices in
accounting or otherwise does not bode well. at each turn I have put your interests first , including in some
instances attempting to fight your choices.
your current circumstance needs nuanced attention. as you know, there are a few areas with very serious
consequences. whether it be , having Ada , form grats without review, brad doing phaidon without
review. payments make without review.merely in order to be weaned , is one more high risk choice.
review of outside accounting firms , CANNOT be done by brad. to have your accounting dept sit in on
Alans trust accounting lecture . in order to learn the filed is reminiscent of elieen reading the tax regs. (
she also was going to take a course)

I am here in New York today. should you like to resume

Date: Mon, May 2, 2016 at 12:51 AM
Subject: Fwd: Valuation Discount
To: Melanie Spinella

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023236
