To: Melanie Spine! i

lets set a time to speak today if possible . 30 minutes or so. my schedule is tight

From: jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com>

Date: Mon, Sep 21, 2015 at 6:36 PM

Subject: agenda for today 5 pm?

To: Melanie Spine! i, Brad S Karp iS

1. put someone on asap to ascertain if she is still in london. 2. set up conference will uk criminal and uk
counsel. a give them more facts. 3. choose method of message delivery. my choice. - two highly
respected former ---- fillin the blank, immigration, scotland yard. sfo. . who may knock on her door and
present the terms. 4 if not. an alternative method. 5. Is it possible to find out if she has gone to

authorities? tabloid lawyer. 6. have the same types of individuals availble in new york if she decides to return
as stated.. i prefer former fbi, or immigration one man one woman. .7 from opening a DA investigation to
arrest. how long? 8, can we open a file in either jurisdiction, and maintain confidentiality.

Date: Mon, Sep 21, 2015 at 6:48 PM

Subject: Re: agenda for today 5 pm?

Cc: Brad S Karp

I think that Melanie should set up a separate email account for this correspondence. she currently is on an
apollo server.

There is not even a good solution . all have substantial risks. we are dealing with a wholly unpredictable and
bad minded person. I and Brad can only make suggestions/actions each less than stellar. - that being

said we should do our best to have all the facts . options etc. and to distinguish fact from opionion As the
consequences of any decision is likely to have some very bad parts , Leon needs to be cognizant of as much as
the downside as we can adequately foresee.

Date: Wed, Sep 23, 2015 at 12:07 AM

Subject: Fwd:

To: Melanie Spinella Po

jan 2 of this year

Date: Fri, Jan 2, 2015 at 2:55 PM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella

Leon, I decided last week that there was little or no upside in disturbing your well earned holiday especiaily as
you seemed so peaceful happy and smiley ,getting yourself in shape and truly enjoying your family time. etc.
however the situation in your family office is unresolved. I am aware that brad starts monday howver, two last
days of the year madness. timber.deal not complete no jpm,acct activity no partnership docs , old stock
sales not complete , no bank doc redo. no phaidon note restructure, ., no boat expense review. airplane same
,topco midco.ete still not finished ( trustee ), projections mixed with fiction. , legal exp out of control. no
care for admin, silly ( audit). tom conversation with joslin. notes. debra, trustee notes. trustees hiring . bens
audit. interest payable made hoopjumping last day of year. after weeks and months. of lectures , gifts to
discuss- staff. -houseproject mgmt. . I will continue to try , I had offered ajoint call with eileen before you
left. asisaid before , joslin takes instructions from eileen. he said it was made clear to him that he doesn't
work for me but works for you. . I tried.

Date: Tue, Sep 29, 2015 at 8:39 PM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella TT

jeffrey

Brad Wechsler is asking if you could meet for a half hour with him and Rich Joslin to discuss Use Tax
Refund. Below are available dates/times...below that is your schedule. OK for me to schedule in?:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023356
