uses evolutionary theory on inclusive
fitness to order many of his findings.
From the perspective of this model of
basic human motivations, loneliness can
be seen as a condition that “promotes
inclusive fitness by signaling ruptures in
social connections and motivates the
repair or replacement of these
connections.” '° According to his
interpretation of inclusive fitness, our
gene continuity is not assured by simply
having our own children. Our children
also must have children as well. And
this is a challenge entailing long-term
expenditures of energy. To account for
this, Cacioppo writes something about
human infant dependency that is very
close to what both the Greek philosopher
Aristotle and the medieval Roman
Catholic theologian Thomas Aquinas set
down many centuries earlier. Cacioppo
says,

For many species, the offspring need
little or no parenting to survive and
reproduce. Homo sapiens, however,
are born to the longest period of
abject dependency of any species.
Simple reproduction, therefore, is not
sufficient to ensure that one’s genes
make it into the gene pool. For an
individual’s genes to make it to the
gene pool, one’s offspring must
survive to reproduce. Moreover,
social connections and the behaviors
they engender (e.g., cooperation,
altruism, alliances) enhance the
survival and reproduction of those
involved, increasing inclusive
fitness. ‘7

According to this view, the
twofold interaction between inclusive
fitness and the long period of infant
dependency has shaped humans over the
long course of evolution into the social

Page |35

and caring creatures we are. Sociality is
a fundamental characteristic of humans,
and, according to Cacioppo, spirituality,
in its various forms, is an extension of
sociality. Religion is generally,
although not always, good for our
mental and physical health - our heart,
our blood pressure, our self-esteem, and
our self-control - just like having good
friends and family or not being lonely
are also good for our well-being. '*
Cacioppo and colleagues do not equate
sociality and religion; they are fully
aware that religions are complex
phenomena with many different
doctrinal, ethical, ritual, organizational,
personal, and social features that require
either rigorous experimental or clinical
population studies to sort out, even from
the perspective of how they affect
health. Nonetheless, he seems to hold
that the sociality that most religions offer
is a key reason for their efficacy in
human well-being.

Does Christian Love Build on Health?

But my concern is the topic of
Christian love and not simply
Christianity’s contribution to mental and
physical health. Although Jesus is said
to have performed miracles of health,
offering health in this world has never
been at the core of Christianity or, for
that matter, the other Abrahamic
religions of Judaism and Islam.
Bringing to maturity loving and self-
giving persons has been the primary
concern of Christianity, whether or not
this contributes to health and well-being.
But the question is, as I elaborated
above, does Christian love build on eros
- that is, our strivings for health and
other goods - or come exclusively from
some trans-natural source as Nygren
believes the normative tradition taught?
And did Christianity ever identify eros
and our deepest motivations with

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021281
