4.2.12
WC: 191694

Chapter 14: The changing politics of rape: From “no” means “maybe,” to “maybe” means “no.”

No legal concept has undergone a more dramatic change over the course of my legal career than
the crime of rape. When I started to practice, there were enormous barriers to the successful
prosecution of rapists. The testimony of the alleged victim had to be corroborated by external
evidence, unlike other crimes where the testimony of the victim is sufficient. The alleged victim
could be cross-examined about her entire sexual history, thus discouraging rape victims from
coming forward. A husband could not be convicted of raping his wife, no matter how much force
he used, because by law, “the husband and wife are one,” and “he is the one.” Under this bizarre
sexist metaphysic, a husband was deemed “incapable of raping himself.” Juries were reluctant to
convict “upstanding” young men who were accused of raping loose women (often defined as
unmarried non virgins). Moreover, being “dressed for sex” was considered a form of consent by
some courts, and prostitutes could not be raped since they were in the “business” of consenting.
In some states, lack of consent alone wasn’t enough to establish rape; the victim had to resist to
the “utmost” even in the face of deadly threats.” Some commentators even suggested that it was
physically impossible for a non-consenting woman to be raped. Most importantly, date rape
wasn't even considered a crime. Instead it was deemed a manifestation of macho entitlement
among certain groups, such as some college fraternities, soldiers, gangs and athletic teams.
Within some such groups if one “brother” was accused of raping a woman, all the other brothers
would say that they too had sex with the complainant.

The upshot was that many predatory males got away with rape either because victims were
unlikely to complain, prosecutors were reluctant to bring charges, jurors were eager to acquit or
appellate courts were quick to throw out convictions.

This male-centered attitude toward rape, and the special rules reflected by that attitude, go back
millennia in time. The Bible, which includes a prohibition against coveting one’s neighbor’s wife
in the Ten Commandments, does not explicitly prohibit rape. In the Bible, there are permissible
and impermissible sexual encounters, depending on the status of the man and woman. A married
woman is prohibited from having sex with anyone but her husband, while a married man is
permitted to have sex with any unmarried or unspoken for woman. If sex is permitted, it may be
accomplished by force. If it is prohibited, it may not be engaged in even if both parties consent. If
a man rapes an unmarried girl who is still in her father’s care, his “punishment” is to pay the father
a specified amount for damaging his “property,” and he must marry her and may not ever divorce
her. Who is punished more under this regime, the perpetrator or the victim? And who is the
“victim,” the girl or her father? Similar rules prevailed in other religions and other cultures during
Biblical times and for centuries thereafter.

The common law attitude, which governed American courts from the beginning of our history,
was summarized by British Lord Chief Justice Matthew Hale, who cautioned that rape was a
charge “easily to be made and hard to be proved, and harder to be defended by the party accused,
tho’ never so innocent.”

7° One court put it this way: “if the carnal knowledge was with the consent of the woman, no matter how tardily
given, or how much force had therefore been employed, it is no rape.” Reynolds v. Nebraska, 27 Neb. 90 (1889).

230

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017317
