» LIFESTYLE DESIGN IN ACTION

Batching tool—PO Box: This might be stating the obvious, but one easy way to encourage batching of
your mail is to use a PO Box versus getting mail delivered to your house. We got our PO Box to limit
access to our physical address online, but it also encourages you to get the mail less and deal with it in
batch. Our post office has recycling bins, so at least 60% of the mail doesn’t even come home with us.
For a while I was only getting and managing the mail once a week, and I found not only did it take less
time overall, I did a better job managing it and getting it out of the way versus looking at it and setting it
aside for future follow up.

—LAURA TURNER

For families, the four-hour workweek doesn’t have to mean four months on a sailboat in the Caribbean
unless that’s their dream, but even the simple ideal of having time to take a walk in the park every
evening or spending weekends together, makes taking actions to implement this program worthwhile.

[There are many different approaches for making this work]: Kids have to promise they won’t bother
Mommy in the evening while she works on the computer, the husband watches the kids in the evening,
both parents make plans once a week to have someone take care of the kids, etc. Then close with the
huge payoff for the family of having more time to spend with each other.

—ADRIENNE JENKINS

Why not combine a mini-retirement with dentistry (or medical) geoarbitrage and finance your trip

with the savings? I lived in Thailand for four months and got root canal treatment and a crown for Vz of
the price that it costs in Australia. There are many upmarket clinics set up for “expats” and health
travelers in Thailand, Philippines, Vietnam, Goa, etc., with English-speaking dentists. And in Europe
many people go to Poland or Hungary. To research, just Google “dentist” and the country and you will
come across practices advertising to foreigners. Talk to expats when you’re in the country or on online
chat forums for recommendations. Now I’m in Australia I still combine my travels with annual dentist
checkups—and the savings often finance my airfare. Even between developed countries there are
significant cost differences. For example France is far cheaper than the UK and Australia is cheaper than
the U.S. [Note from Tim: Learn more about the incredible world of medical tourism and geoarbitrage at
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Medical tourism. Even large insurers like AETNA often cover overseas
treatments and surgeries. ]

—ANONYMOUS

—

2. This habit alone can change your life. It seems small but has an enormous effect.

—

3. Jonathan B. Spira and Joshua B. Feintuch, The Cost of Not Paying Attention: How Interruptions

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013869
