nearness and sequential order not absolute distances), symbolic dynamical
processes which as either (1) or (2) can be analyzed with respect to its various
entropies, algorithmic complexities and word content and syntax. A variety of
techniques aimed at deciding between the relevance of one or another of these
underlying assumptions (such as series and Fourier phase shuffling to destroy
statistical autocorrelations and vectorial continuities but leaving the probability
density distributions intact ) may at times help emphasize one or another of these
orientations in the analyses (see Ott et al, 1994 for a collection of articles on this

topic).

Nonconvergent Distributions and Power Law Scaling in Biologically Relevant

Time Series

The statistical distribution with which most of us are familiar is the Gaussian
which can be generated by summing and averaging a series of independent
random events. The average behavior head/tails probabilities observed by one
person flipping a fair coin for a very long time or by many people flipping similar
coins for shorter times converges upon the invariant measure of 0.5. The variance,
“second moment” in the distribution of a population of coin flipping sequences will
be finite and computable. In a graph of this distribution, the tails will converge to the
xX axis in a Gaussian exponential manner. The longer or the more numerous the
“sample” series of observations, the closer they will approximate the “ergodic”
invariant measures representing the true “central moments” of the behavior of this
“population” of fair flipping coins. Since the coins are not changing their relevant
characteristics over the time of observation, we say that the series is not time
dependent but instead is “stationary.” Computation of correlations over increasing
lags to determine how much and for how many flips the sequences continue to
resemble themselves yield an exponential decay with a single characteristic
correlation length. This reflects the existence of a finite variance from which its
amplitude is derived and serves as the single characteristic temporal scale of the

random process.

206

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013706
