“ERSON
gs progressed?

ke off my panties at first. And
ien he got me to let him rub me.
x his fingers in me. Then he got
ie. Then, um—that was pretty
one time, where he bent me over
» Without my permission. And!
ask you, but I don’t count that as
‘ause | just told you that I never
Even though, I don’t know what
>n—I go, “What are you doing?”
sdacted] to see this.”
hen you were completely naked,
fou went in, you massaged him?
hat. Sometimes he just asked me
—he’d have to do work, he'd be
ting, and Id just be naked there,
ing a book, but I'd be naked. Or,
o just watch TV or read, and he'd
| take my clothes off and lay with
h him or anything. . ..Sometimes
- breakfast, for dinner, ot just to
id I'd get paid for that, too. I'd get
him. That’s it. And if the money
re ever been in that house.

ouch you—

say anything else. Um, is there a
have to go to court or anything?

ght?

44

Firtuy Ricu

: Well, here’s the thing: When this is all said and done, we’re

going to sit down, we're going to discuss this. I mean, what
he did to you is a crime. I'm not gonna lie to you.

: Would you consider it rape? Like, would you consider that to

be rape, what he did?

: If he put himself inside you, without permission—
: I didn’t say that, or anything. I was standing up and the table

is about, like, my hip length— he just put me down—

: That, that is a crime. That is a crime.
: I don’t want my family to find out about this. My family

doesn’t know any of this. My mom thinks I was his secretary,
for two years, or however long—a year and a half. My mom
thinks I made phone calls for him and that’s how I was mak-
ing my [unintelligible] money. That’s it. 1 don’t want her to
know anything.

: Well, you’re an adult. You’re an adult now....When we're

done with this interview, we'll discuss this further and we'll
decide the best course.

: 'Cause Jeffrey’s gonna get me. You guys realize that, right?

He's gonna find— he’s gonna figure this out. And he’s gonna—
I'm not safe now. You understand that, right? I’m not safe.

: He is not this person that he is portraying himself to be—
> Well—

: Why do you say you're not safe? Has he said he’s hurt people

before?

: Well, P've heard him make threats to people on the telephone,

yeah. Of course.

: You're gonna die? You're gonna break your legs? Or—
> All the above! But that’s not the point.
' Who's he talking to?

45

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019161
