investment, ?? pe. real es, . publishing, grats, tra, brh ( death). foundation , museum, tax proejctions cash
flow projections, cooridnation with tax from apollo. etc

Date: Thu, May 28, 2015 at 8:53 PM
Subject: ulysses 2.0

To: Melanie Spinella Bea reenarmememt
I realize it is only due to a lack of understanind of the job ahead. and not out of any sense of

unwillingess to pay

- as opposed to merely hiring people to set up a family office, someone will have to do _ the following-
separate from the art partnership which is my responsiblity . there still needs to be a huge amount of
work done for 2015,16. not to mention that brad at the moment is going to have train the incoming
team?? your call

strategic decisions re estate and other planning , sale of phaidon etc. . in addition setting up for the
accounting for each strategy te.:

income, estate, gift ,sales and use, transfer excise picasso, 1031 calder.. review and detailed oversite
of IRS SEC GAMING NYS. real estate, entity valuations (many ) tax filings- disclosures, follow
up of grats, trusts ,defective trusts, Ilcs corps , trustees , partnerships. foreign corps. 100 bank
account need to be rationalized, not only having brad step in to children investments . gift taxes, trust
, loans, notes. payables. expenses allocations . . , insurance.( life , art, split dollar), cashflows,
operating biz, , investments, contingent liabilitiites.( funds , miami ) , commitments funds and charities
, dividend treatment -important review of transcations relating to BRH ( amendments) TRA sale (
nuanced ) , shareholder agreements, bank loan agreements new bank relationships. ._ wills,
construction accounting and oversite , contracts planning permits etc..employee rules, regs, .
checking account reconciliations, crediti cards. jewelry , cost basis ,( art stock etc.) foundations regs
, brokerage accts,. stock options,( ie environmental solutions still not done !). estate tax calcualtion
firedrill, ( note ,basis etc ) review of boat expenses plane expenses, depreciation issues refunds etc. .
rationalize all outside counsels and accounting firms

Paul Weisss , Mcdermit Will, Macfarlanes. Price Waterhouse , Reich, withers bergman, Empire, ,
akin gump, bbd seidman, , Apollo in house counsel.

set up and oversee brokerage accounts at JPM DB GS and thoughfullly trade

.new IT system from top to bottom full time IT person

new accounting system - on- line banking cooridnated with reports . fire drills as per caruci (he
sounds good ) and. audit system,s . review of john murphy? joslin? dag? eva? .

in house, review household ( 12million ) review, filings- partnerhip accounting,- familitarity with
grats, trusts etc . audit system put in place. that should be the easy part. then strategy re:
As new facts on the ground develop, phaidon debra, children meeetings, involvment , trustees
adjusted, stock sale sale of art, , apt( large gain ), 1031 trade in , plane depreciation, boat sale.
construction , brad will oversee brokerage and investment, ?? pe?. real estate?, . publishing,

grats, tra, brh ( death). foundation , museum, tax proejctions cash flow projections, cooridnation with
tax from apollo. etc

you are sitting on over 100 m of cash???!!

Date: Fri, Jan 2, 2015 at 2:55 PM
Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella - t—<‘i—isSOSOSCS

Leon, I decided last week that there was little or no upside in disturbing your well earned holiday

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023222
