that are called variational analysis. They involve the natural (or miraculous)
selection of maxima or minima in quantifiable physical processes. Of all possible
two-dimensional shapes with the same perimeter, the circle contains the greatest
area; in three dimensions, it’s the sphere. In his Principia, Newton reports his work
determining the optimal shape of round solids, with circles of revolution having the
same effective cross section, in order to minimize frictional resistance to gravity in a
medium.

The principle of least action says that imparting energy; say by a kick, to a
physical body on a rigid two-dimensional surface like the earth, results in it taking
the shortest route possible from its initial to final position. The related 1650 Fermat’s
“principle of least time” is about light. As Feynman explains in his Lectures in
Physics, “...out of all possible paths that light might take from one point another,
light takes the path that requires the shortest time.” Feynman, using elementary
relations from high school geometry, proved that the /east time principle could lead
directly to Snell’s law of the refraction of light at the interface of two different
conducting media such as air and water. His analogy was the optimal choice of the
path to take in order to rescue a pretty girl drowning in the ocean. Whereas the
shortest distance to the girl leads directly into the water, faster running along the
beach to the point that minimizes the distance required for the intrinsically slower
rate of swimming increases the distance traveled but reduces the time required to
reach her.

Euler attributed the optimization principle to an expression of the meaning
and purpose of a loving God. Infused with this spirit, he developed mathematical
methods describing smooth variations in position of an object in motion, the Euler
differential equation, in which differential coefficients are varied to prove the
principle of least action for mechanical motion. He gave the law Maupertuis’s name.
Mach quoted Euler’s conclusion, “As the construction of the universe is the most
perfect possible, being the handiwork of an all-wise Maker, nothing can be met with
in the world in which some maximal or minimal property is not displayed.” Such faith
based mathematical formalisms were rejected by Joseph Lagrange, an early 19

Century mathematician, who, among many other things, proved that every natural

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013514
