Case 1:17-cv-03956-PGG Document1-1 Filed 05/25/17 Page 3of5

“He disputes that he ever had sex with any under-age person or anything like
that,” said Mr. Lefcourt, whose clients have included Russell Crowe, Martha Stewart
and Abbie Hoffman.

Neither the police nor the state attorney’s office would discuss the case in detail.
But the police released a thick report on the 13-month investigation after the
indictment was unsealed in late July.

The police started investigating Mr. Epstein in March 2005, almost immediately
after they were contacted by the stepmother of the 14-year-old, who, according to the
report, was in a special school for students with disciplinary problems.

The girl, the report said, told the police that an older friend had “offered her an
opportunity to make money” and had driven her to Mr. Epstein’s house one Sunday.
The friend, identified by the police as Haley Robson, a local community college
student, told the girl to say she was 18 if Mr. Epstein asked, the report said.

The girl told the police that Mr. Epstein’s assistant had led her upstairs to a
room with a massage table and that Mr. Epstein had come in and told her to remove
her clothes. She said Mr. Epstein had masturbated as she massaged him, had
pressed a vibrator against her underwear and had given her $300 afterward.

In October, the police interviewed Ms. Robson, then 19, who told them Mr.
Epstein had routinely paid her to bring teenage girls to his home. The police then
interviewed a total of 5 alleged victims and 17 witnesses, many of whom told similar
stories about what they had observed or participated in at Mr. Epstein’s home.
According to the report, at least one said Mr. Epstein had engaged in intercourse
with her.

Mr. Lefcourt, his lawyer, said one girl who told the police of having had sex with
Mr. Epstein as a minor had lied about both the sex and her age and had not shown
up for grand jury questioning. He also said Mr. Epstein had passed a lie-detector test
clearing him of any sexual involvement with under-age girls.

A spokeswoman for the Palm Beach police said that early this year, the police
went to Mr. Krischer, the state attorney, intending to apply for warrants to arrest

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029421
