Date: 7/13/06 PALM BEACH POLICE DEPARTMENT

Time: 9:27:55 Incident Report Program: CMS301L
Case No... .. : 1~05-000368 (Continued)
advised it wasn't really weird until later on. was

asked if she ever removed her clothing to provide a massage.

stated it was not until the third time she went that she removed her
clothing. [.—sdIstated she was notified by MMMM that Epstein
wanted her to come to work. She arrived at the house and was led
upstairs by HBB. She started providing the massage when Epstein
asked her to remove her clothing. [Td removed her pants, shirt
and bra. She stayed in her thong panties and continued rubbing
Epstein. nds turned over onto his back and she rubbed his chest

b6
b7C

area. stated she knew he was masturbating himself as she
providing the massage. stated she believed he climaxed based
on his breathing. She did not want to view either the climax or the
fact that he was masturbating. [— | stated once the breathing
relaxed he got up and told her to get dressed. She was paid $300.00
for her services.

[__|stated on the last time she went to provide a_massage, she
was notified by HME to come to the house and work. oo statea
she was now dating her current boyfriend and did not feel comfortable
going. She recalled it was approximately January 2005. She said she
went, already thinking that this would be the last time. She went
upstairs and went into the master bathroom. She met with Epstein,

who was wearing only a towel as he entered the room to lie on the
table. oo stated Epstein caught her looking at the clock_on
several occasions. Epstein asked her if she was in a hurry.

stated her boyfriend was in the car waiting for her. further
stated that Epstein got upset, as she wasn't enjoying the massage.

She told him that she didn't want to continue and she would not be
back. Epstein told her to leave as she was ruining his massage. I
asked her if she had any contact with Epstein's organization, she
stated she received $200.00 from Western Union in Royal Palm Beach and
Okeechobee Blvd as a Christmas gift. advised she had no
formal training in provide any massages. also stated she was
sixteen years old when she first went to Epstein's house.

At approximately 4:22 pm, I made telephone contact with

athe She agreed to meet with me at a public place. I
suggested she come to the police station for an interview. [dia
not want to meet at the police station. I recommended we meet at the
Palm Beach Gardens Mall in the food court area. She agreed and an
appointment was made for November 15, 2005 at 5:00 pm at the food
court.

Investigations Continue.

KRRKEKREKEKREREREREEEKKEEKEKKKKEK NARRATIVE: Ho QO KRRRKKKKEKRKEREKEKRKEEKEERREEEEE
NA Reported By: SANDMAN, JENNIFER R. 11/16/05
Entered By.: ALTOMARO, NICKIE A. - 11/17/05

On 10/20/2005, I assisted executing a search warrant at 358 El
Brillo Way in the Town of Palm Beach, Palm Beach County Florida under
the direction of affiant Detective Joe Recarey.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019005 —
