AiSIANe Case 1:19-cv-O887 7-H GRRE MEER: “Fae gO FEG/IS Nem Ags met 3

Jeffrey Epstein’s
Attorneys: A Fair
Plea Deal

The attorneys for a man accused of sexual abuse of young women defend the
prosecutors’ decision to drop federal charges against him.

March 4, 2019

To the Editor:
Re “The Cowardly Labor Secretary” (editorial, March 3):

Your editorial’s conclusions are in profound conflict with the reality as we, Jeffrey Epstein’s
current and former lawyers, knew it.

When he was United States attorney for the Southern District of Florida in 2007, Alexander
Acosta, the current labor secretary, oversaw a plea deal for Mr. Epstein involving charges of
solicitation of prostitution involving young women. Your underlying premise is that Mr. Acosta
had capitulated and not filed federal charges because Mr. Epstein had a “high-priced defense
team.”

This was categorically denied by the Southern District’s then first assistant, Jeffrey H. Sloman, in
an Op-Ed article in The Miami Herald on Feb. 15. Mr. Sloman correctly represented the existence
of “significant legal impediments to [federally] prosecuting” what was a quintessentially state case.

He also correctly represented that the government had achieved its principal objectives — a felony
plea, incarceration, millions of dollars in restitution and monetary settlements, and lifetime sex
offender registration — through its agreement with Mr. Epstein. That agreement was reviewed at
multiple levels of the Justice Department. An agreement rather than a trial is how over 97

percent of federal cases get resolved, through negotiations by two teams of experienced
professionals. The case lacked the credible and compelling proof that is required by federal
criminal statutes.

That the guilty plea was required in a state, not federal, court reflected the absence of evidence
that Mr. Epstein used the internet, traveled to a location away from his home for the purpose of
having illegal sex, commercially trafficked women to others, engaged in force, fraud or coercion,
used drugs or alcohol to entice young women who came to his house to exchange sexual massages
for money, possessed child pornography or in other ways violated federal law.

https:/Awww.nytimes.com/201 9/03/04/opinion/letters/jeffrey-epstein.html 1/2

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018020
