leader will allow such a nightmare to become a reality. The hateful declarations of Iran's leaders,
committed to wiping the Jewish state off the map, do not assuage Israelis’ fears.

2. Economic sanctions cannot convince the regime in Teheran to abandon its nuclear project.
However, sanctions can bring about the collapse of the regime if they are vigorously
implemented and enforced.

3. An American military strike against Iran’s nuclear facilities would be more effective
than an Israeli one. But disparaging Israel's capabilities and its military ingenuity, undermining
its deterrence effect, is a grave mistake.

4. Israel’s operational window is closing. If Israel has to cope alone with the Iranian threat, its
window of operational opportunity is narrower than the American one. It has to act sooner.

5. An Israeli military strike in the next two months, contravening repeated demands by the
U.S. President to postpone it, would be counterproductive. The damage of defying the
President would be greater than the damage sustained by allowing the Iranian regime an
additional few months of advancing toward acquiring the bomb. Such a strike may broaden the
gap between the U.S. and Israel and weaken the alliance, which all previous Israeli Prime-
Ministers have safeguarded as a strategic asset of Israel.

6. The United States has failed to prevent countries like Pakistan or North Korea from
obtaining nuclear weapons. This record feeds Israeli skepticism about a U.S. success in the
case of Iran. This skepticism prevails despite the clear rhetoric and unquestionable commitments
of the President and the Secretaries of State and Defense to prevent a nuclear Iran.

7. The fact that the Israeli Prime Minister and the Republican presidential candidate share
the same political benefactor feeds suspicions in the Obama administration about Netanyahu’s
motives for attacking Iran a few weeks before the U.S. presidential elections.

8. The regional perspective cannot continue ignoring the unresolved Israeli-Palestinian
conflict. This issue can no longer be swept under the rug. Maintaining the status quo is politically
comfortable in the short-run, but it will be combustible and devastating in the long run.
Achieving the two-state solution will preserve Israel as a Jewish, democratic state. It will end
Israel’s regional isolation. It will rebuild America’s standing and influence in the Arab and
Muslim world. Furthermore, these last two outcomes will strengthen America’s and Israel’s
hands in thwarting Iran’s nuclear weapons ambitions.

These eight basic facts combine to produce a complex reality. When fully understood, they can
pave the way to restoring U.S.-Israeli harmony. There is no symmetry between the United States,
the super-power, and its tiny ally, Israel. But the package required from each side in order to
mend fences has to include the following mutual commitments:

1. Israel will not attack Iran in 2012.

2. The United States will hold a joint intelligence estimate session with Israel in the early spring
of 2013. If the conclusion of this joint estimate is that there is no substantial slow-down of the
Iranian nuclear project, the U.S. will take military action to destroy this project.

3. The United States will oppose any attempt to intervene in Israel's strategic capacities and will
prevent any monitoring of Israel's own strategic installations. At the same time, the United States

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_027100
