continued about his certain demise; it had become a constant background noise.

He was still not sure he would be fired, yet Bannon, in only the second on-the-record
interview he had given since the Trump victory, called Kuttner and in effect sealed his
fate. He would later maintain that the conversation was not on the record. But this was the
Bannon method, in which he merely tempted fate.

If Trump was helplessly Trump in his most recent news conference, Bannon was
helplessly Bannon in his chat with Kuttner. He tried to prop up what he made sound like a
weak Trump on China. He corrected, in mocking fashion, the president’s bluster on North
Korea—‘“ten million people in Seoul” will die, he declared. And he insulted his internal
enemies—“they’re wetting themselves.”

If Trump was incapable of sounding like a president, Bannon had matched him: he was
incapable of sounding like a presidential aide.

OOK Ok

That evening, a group of Bannonites gathered near the White House for dinner. The dinner
was called for the bar at the Hay-Adams hotel, but Arthur Schwartz, a Bannonite PR man,
got into an altercation with the Hay-Adams bartender about switching the television from
CNN to Fox, where his client, Blackstone’s Stephen Schwarzman, the chairman of one of
the president’s business councils, was shortly to appear. The business council was
hemorrhaging its CEO members after the president’s Charlottesville news conference, and
Trump, in a tweet, had announced that he was disbanding it. (Schwarzman had advised the
president that the council was collapsing and that the president ought to at least make it
look as if shutting it down was his decision.)

Schwartz, in high dudgeon, announced that he was checking out of the Hay-Adams and
moving to the Trump Hotel. He also insisted that the dinner be moved two blocks away to
Joe’s, an outpost of Miami’s Joe’s Stone Crab. Matthew Boyle, the Washington political
editor of Breitbart News, was swept into Schwartz’s furious departure, with Schwartz
upbraiding the twenty-nine-year-old for lighting a cigarette. “I don’t know anyone who
smokes,” he sniffed. Although Schwartz was firmly in the Bannon camp, this seemed to
be a general dig at the Breitbart people for being low-class.

Both dedicated Bannonites debated the effect of Bannon’s interview, which had caught
everybody in the Bannon universe off guard. Neither man could understand why he would
have given an interview.

Was Bannon finished?

No, no, no, argued Schwartz. He might have been a few weeks ago when Murdoch had
ganged up with McMaster and gone to the president and pressed him to dump Bannon.
But then Sheldon had fixed it, Schwartz said.

“Steve stayed home when Abbas came,” said Schwartz. “He wasn’t going to breathe

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020109
