shoe may well be one of the least frivolous prototypes on display among the 1,100
exhibitors. Developers plan to sell the device as a way to track mentally disabled people or

seniors who have Alzheimer's disease.
Where would you be without GPS?

Perhaps carrying fewer gadgets: The technology is being added to shoes, MP3 players, dogs

By Carolyn Y. Johnson | Boston Globe | February 19, 2007

This month, GTX Corp. launched a line of Xplorer Smart GPS shoes that transform sneakers into
a wearable LoJack system.

ABI Research found that the number of people in North America who subscribe to GPS-enabled
location-based services more than doubled between 2005 and 2006, from 1.6 to 3.9 million. The
number of subscribers is projected to rocket to 52 million in 2011.

That means companies working in what used to be a niche market have been enjoying explosive
growth. Revenues at TomTom NV, a Concord-based maker of personal navigation products, have
increased more than 500-fold since 2001, from $2.5 million to an estimated $1.7 billion last

year. Garmin's business has exploded into the mainstream, too, and the company ran its first
Super Bowl ad this year. Boston-based start-up Skyhook Wireless brings location awareness to
any device with WiFi, and announced a major partnership this month with GPS platform maker

SiRF.
Xplorer shoes offer advanced personal location services

from Wearable Electronics

January 29, 2007 - We’ve written several times about the concept of electronically fencing dogs
and cats for their safety, or the safety of others. Similarly, as GPS technologies have become
commercially viable, of tracking assets and loved ones to ensure their safety. Now personal
location services company GTXC Corporation, is set to unveil a line of Xplorer Smart GPS shoes
at the World Shoe Association (WSA) in Las Vegas on February 1 which offer a range of new
opportunities. Xplorer shoes incorporate a small and robust GPS tracking device which hooks up

with GTXC's internet user portal to offer a very compelling array of personal location services.
Integrated GPS Shoes by GTXC

Getoutdoors.com Outdoor Blog - Friday, February 2. 2007

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018187
