What Can We Do About [t? 279

thought that telling me what I just told them was the essence of
academic achievement.

Selfworth questioned: School is full of winners and losers. I
graduated number 322 in my high school class (out of 678). Notice
that I remember this. Do you think this was good for my self-esteem?
Even the guy who graduated number 2 felt like a loser. In school, most
everyone sees themselves as a loser. Why do we allow this to happen?

Politicians in charge: Politicians demand reform but they wouldn’t
know reform if it hit them over the head. What they mean is that
school should be like they remember rather than how it is now, and
they will work hard to get you to vote for them to give them money
to restore the system to the awful state it always was in. Politicians,
no matter what party, actually have no interest in education at all. An
educated electorate makes campaigning much harder.

Government use of education for repression: As long as there have
been governments, there have been governments that wanted people
to think that the government (and the country) is very good. We all
recognize this tendency in dictatorships that promote the marvels of
the dictator and rewrite history whenever it is convenient. When you
point out that our government does the same thing, you are roundly
booed. We all know that the Indians were savages that Abraham
Lincoln was a great president and that we are the freest country on
earth. School is about teaching “truth.”

Discovery not valued: The most important things we learn we
teach ourselves. This is why kids have trouble learning from their
parents’ experience. They need their own experiences to ponder and
to learn from. We need to try things out and see how they go. This kind
of learning is not valued in school because it might lead to, heaven
forbid, failure, and failure is a really bad word in school. Except failure
is how we learn, which is pretty much why school doesn’t work.

Boredom ignored: Boredom is a bad thing. We drug bored kids

with Ritalin so they will stop being bored. All of my best work has
come when I was most bored and let my mind wander. It is odd that

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023965
