I read the front-page headlines through the newspaper machines as I walk to lunch each day and
nothing more. In five years, I haven’t had a single problem due to this selective ignorance. It gives you
something new to ask the rest of the population in lieu of small talk: “Tell me, what’s new in the
world?” And, if it’s that important, you'll hear people talking about it. Using my crib notes approach to
world affairs, I also retain more than someone who loses the forest for the trees in a sea of extraneous
details.

From an actionable information standpoint, I consume a maximum of one-third of one industry
magazine (Response magazine) and one business magazine (/nc.) per month, for a grand total of
approximately four hours. That’s it for results-oriented reading. I read an hour of fiction prior to bed for
relaxation.

How on earth do I act responsibly? Let me give an example of how I and other NR both consider and

obtain information. I voted in the last presidential election,2 despite having been in Berlin. I made my
decision in a matter of hours. First, I sent e-mails to educated friends in the U.S. who share my values
and asked them who they were voting for and why. Second, I judge people based on actions and not
words; thus, I asked friends in Berlin, who had more perspective outside of U.S. media propaganda, how
they judged the candidates based on their historical behavior. Last, I watched the presidential debates.
That was it. I let other dependable people synthesize hundreds of hours and thousands of pages of media
for me. It was like having dozens of personal information assistants, and I didn’t have to pay thema
single cent.

That’s a simple example, you say, but what if you need to learn to do something your friends haven’t
done? Like, say, sell a book to the world’s largest publisher as a first-time author? Funny you should
ask. There are two approaches I used:

1. I picked one book out of dozens based on reader reviews and the fact that the authors had actually
done what I wanted to do. If the task is how-to in nature, I only read accounts that are “how I did it” and
autobiographical. No speculators or wannabes are worth the time.

2. Using the book to generate intelligent and specific questions, I contacted 10 of the top authors and
agents in the world via e-mail and phone, with a response rate of 80%.

I only read the sections of the book that were relevant to immediate next steps, which took less than
two hours. To develop a template e-mail and call script took approximately four hours, and the actual e-
mails and phone calls took less than an hour. This personal contact approach is not only more effective
and more efficient than all-you-can-eat info buffets, it also provided me with the major league alliances
and mentors necessary to sell this book. Rediscover the power of the forgotten skill called “talking.” It
works.

Once again, less is more.

How to Read 200% Faster in 10 Minutes

Trex will be times when, it’s true, you will have to read. Here are four simple tips that will lessen the
damage and increase your speed at least 200% in 10 minutes with no comprehension loss:
1. Two Minutes: Use a pen or finger to trace under each line as you read as fast as possible.

Reading is a series of jumping snapshots (called saccades), and using a visual guide prevents
regression.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013851
