declined in quality. People feel less trusting of others than in previous decades, face-to-face communication is
less frequent, and people's social networks have become more fragmented, producing smaller social clusters
rather than expansive, civic community groups. Empathy with other humans, considering others' wants, feelings,
needs, and motivations (the essence of what makes us human), has diminished considerably. Rises in income
inequality and political polarization also mean that our diversity of social experiences— encountering people
unlike ‘us'—1is diminishing as well, enabling little consideration of humans dissimilar to ourselves.

The Power of Human represents a call to action. This book details the psychological cost of losing our
humanity and elucidates scientifically supported strategies to counteract this trend, many of which are already
underway. Although scholars have bemoaned declines in social interaction, their concerns often erroneously
center on people's deteriorating social skills, communication abilities, and intelligence (for which evidence is
decidedly mixed). Meanwhile, the real costs of this decline on moral behavior, employee productivity,
mobilizing social movements, and finding meaning in life have gone overlooked. This book elucidates how we
often overlook how psychologically powerful humans are, and provides strategies to rejuvenate efforts to
recognize others’ humanity.

The Power of Human is unique in providing solutions to this problem that will help businesses retain customers
and employees, help charities raise more money, help people experience greater significance from simple
everyday activities, help technologists design better robots, help reduce conflict between different political and
religious sects, and increase happiness in relationships with friends and spouses.

ADAM WAYTZ is an associate professor of management and organizations in the Kellogg School of
Management at Northwestern University. His research has been published in leading journals such as
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, and
Psychological Review. Waytz received the 2008 and 2013 Theoretical Innovation Award from the Society for
Personality and Social Psychology, the SAGE Foundation Young Scholar Award, and the International Social
Cognition Network's Early Career Award. In 2015, Poets and Quants named him one of the Best 40 Business
School Professors Under the Age of 40. He has written articles for the New York Times, the Boston Globe, Wall
Street Journal, Harvard Business Review, Scientific American, and Slate.

-o

SCALE

The Search for Simplicity and Unity in the Complexity of Life, from Cells to Cities, Companies to
Ecosystems, Milliseconds to Millennia

By Geoffrey West

[US — Penguin Press, UK — Weidenfeld & Nicolson, Holland — Het Spectrum, Finland — Terra Cognita,
Brazil — Das Letras; Japan — Hayakawa; Korea — Gimm Young; Taiwan — Locus; China — CITIC; Russia
— Atticus; Audio — Penguin RH; Manuscript; 400 pages; Publication: May 2017]

The former head of the Sante Fe Institute, visionary physicist Geoffrey West 1s a pioneer in the field of
complexity science, the science of emergent systems and networks. The term complexity can be misleading,
however, because what makes West’s discoveries so beautiful is that he has found an underlying simplicity that
unites the seemingly complex and diverse phenomena of living systems, including our bodies, our cities and our
businesses.

Fascinated by issues of aging and mortality, West applied the rigor of a physicist to the biological question of
why we live as long as we do and no longer. The result was astonishing and changed science, creating a new
understanding of energy use and metabolism: West found that despite the riotous diversity in the sizes of
mammals, they are all, to a large degree, scaled versions of each other. If you know the size of a mammal, you
can use scaling laws to learn everything from how much food it eats per day, what its heart-rate is, how long it
will take to mature, its lifespan, and so on. Furthermore, the efficiency of the mammal’s circulatory systems

Brockman, Inc. Frankfurt 2016 Hotlist
-14

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025160
