I. SUMMARY OF HISTORICAL INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE

The Fund Managers’ long term track record in healthcare technology investing clearly
establishes the team as one of the most successful in the venture capital industry over the last
two decades. Over an 18 year period and across the portfolios of six distinct venture funds
focused on healthcare technology investments, the Fund Managers have delivered net
performance that has consistently outperformed venture industry benchmarks and relevant
public equity market indices!5!*, The Fund Managers’ track record is notable for the following
reasons:

e Performance has_ been consistently top-quartile since the mid-1990s:
NLV-I, NLV-II and the healthcare technology portfolios in the Sprout Capital funds
have invested over $1.6 billion in healthcare technology companies since 1995. Over this
time, The Fund Managers’ returns have consistently exceeded Cambridge Associates’
top-quartile benchmarks for U.S. venture capital healthcare and/or U.S. total venture
capital.1¢

e Exceeded relevant public equity indices by substantial margins on all realized funds:
The Fund Managers invested $1.02 billion in the portfolios of healthcare technology
investments in four Sprout Capital funds (Sprout Capital IX, L.P., Sprout Capital VIIL
L.P., Sprout Capital VIL, L.P. and Sprout Growth II, L.P.), and these are now fully
realized (or near fully realized in the case of Sprout Capital IX). The net annual IRR’s on
these four funds outperformed the S&P 500 (568 - 2,259 bps), S&P Healthcare (302 -
2,066 bps), NASDAQ Composite (451 - 2,125 bps), and the Russell 3000 (502 - 2,215 bps)
using the Public Market Equivalent Plus (PME+) methodology!”. Although PME+
methodology is most informative when used to analyze funds whose returns are
mature, the PME+ methodology shows that NLV-I is outperforming these same indices,
and shows encouraging results for NLV-II despite its relative immaturity.

It is this consistently high level of return over an 18 year period, spanning several challenging
investment cycles, that creates a truly unique track record within the venture capital sector.

INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE WITHIN INDIVIDUAL FUNDS

The New Leaf team has invested over $1.67 billion in 126 healthcare technology companies
within 6 distinct funds since 1995. These funds included NLV-I and NLV-II and the healthcare
technology investments in four Sprout Capital funds (Sprout Capital IX, L.P., Sprout Capital
VUL L.P., Sprout Capital VII, L.P., and Sprout Growth II, L.P., together the “Sprout Funds”). In
aggregate, the team has exited or partially exited investments in 92 companies, generating gross
realizations of over $2.6 billion and a gross realized cash-on-cash return and internal rate of
return (IRR) of 2.1x and 17%, respectively. Corresponding net returns on the portfolios in each
of these funds are provided in Appendix 2.

15 Please see Section XIII: “Appendices” and the endnotes in Appendix 4. Disclosure of past performance herein is for
informational purposes only and is not indicative of future results.

16 Please refer to Section III: “Summary of Historical Investment Performance” and Section XIII: “Appendices” and endnote C
(regarding information provided by Cambridge Associates) in Appendix 4.

1” Please refer to Section III: “Summary of Historical Investment Performance” and Section XIII: “Appendices; Appendix 3”
(regarding the PME+ methodology) and endnotes B, D E and F in Appendix 4.

18 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024029
