ealth warning! The man who discovered infinity had a mental

breakdown. This subject may tax your brain.

Georg Cantor didn’t really ‘discover’ infinity but he was the first
mathematician to put it on a firm theoretical footing. In the late 19
century, most mathematicians thought infinity was a curious idea with
no proper place in mathematics. They treated Cantor's attempts to make
it into a real mathematical object with contempt. This affected Cantor’s
morale and caused him to suffer several bouts of deep depression,
retreating to a sanatorium from time to time.

Infinity is a difficult idea to grasp but it is vital to our study of
information. It behaves counter-intuitively but is not impossible to grasp.
The reason it is important is that information can always be translated
into numbers and numbers go on to infinity. If you want to know all
about information, you must understand infinite numbers.

History

Indian scholars began studying infinity in the 4 Century BC. It turns
up naturally in all manner of places. In geometry, parallel lines extend
forever in either direction without ever meeting. To define a parallel line
you must contemplate infinity. In arithmetic, even if you pick the largest
number you can imagine, there is always a larger one; just add one. In the
physical world if you look up at the night sky it appears to go on forever.
Again you have infinity.

Historically there were two interpretations of infinity. The first,
favored by Plato, was a journey. When you embark upon a journey, you
can always take another step. Infinity is the idea of ‘one more’ or never-
ending. It can never be reached. The second definition is more radical.
Infinity is a thing, a number so bigyou could not imagine anything bigger,
but it is one number. Plato thought this second definition tantamount to
madness. Today we embrace this madness and go a whole lot further. Let
me show you how.

Ifinfinity were a number, you should be able to perform mathematics
with it; add it, multiply it, and even raise it to a power. This is not as
radical as it might first seem. Until comparatively recently, zero was not
accepted as a number - if you consider recent to be one thousand years!
Nowadays it is.

At the end of the first millennium Indian scholars found, against
their intuition, that you can use zero as a number without generating
contradictions. Take addition. I can have zero cakes, add one, and I
have one cake, add another, and have two cakes and so on. In this way,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015869
