3.4 The General Structure of Cognitive Dynamics: Analysis and Synthesis 43

metaphor Kampis uses is that of Lego blocks, combining to form bigger Lego structures. Com-
pound structures may in turn be combined together to form yet bigger compound structures.
A self-generating system is basically the same concept as a component-system, but understood
to be computable, whereas Kampis claims that component-systems are uncomputable.

Next, in SGS theory there is also a notion of reduction (not present in the Lego metaphor):
sometimes when components are combined in a certain way, a “reaction” happens, which may
lead to the elimination of some of the components. One relevant metaphor here is chemistry.
Another is abstract algebra: for instance, if we combine a component f with its “inverse” com-
ponent f~', both components are eliminated. Thus, we may think about two stages in the
interaction of sets of components: combination, and reduction. Reduction may be thought of
as algebraic simplification, governed by a set of rules that apply to a newly created compound
component, based on the components that are assembled within it.

Formally, suppose C1, C2,... is the set of components present in a discrete-time component-
system at time t. Then, the components present at time t+1 are a subset of the set of components
of the form

Reduce( Join(C;(1), ...,Ci(r)))

where Join is a joining operation, and Reduce is a reduction operator. The joining operation
is assumed to map tuples of components into components, and the reduction operator is assumed
to map the space of components into itself. Of course, the specific nature of a component system
is totally dependent on the particular definitions of the reduction and joining operators; in
following chapters we will specify these for the CogPrime system, but for the purpose of the
broader theoretical discussion in this section they may be left general.

What is called the “cognitive equation” in Chaotic Logic [Goe94] is the case of a SGS where
the patterns in the system at time ¢ have a tendency to correspond to components of the system
at future times t+ s. So, part of the action of the system is to transform implicit knowledge
(patterns among system components) into explicit knowledge (specific system components). We
will see one version of this phenomenon in Chapter 14 where we model implicit knowledge using
mathematical structures called “derived hypergraphs”; and we will also later review several ways
in which CogPrime’s dynamics explicitly encourage cognitive-equation type dynamics, e.g.:

e inference, which takes conclusions implicit in the combination of logical relationships, and
makes them implicit by deriving new logical relationships from them

e map formation, which takes concepts that have often been active together, and creates new
concepts grouping them

e association learning, which creates links representing patterns of association between entities

e probabilistic procedure learning, which creates new models embodying patterns regarding
which procedures tend to perform well according to particular fitness functions

3.4.2 Analysis and Synthesis

Now we move on to the main point of this section: the argument that all or nearly all focused
cognitive processes are expressible using two general process-schemata we call synthesis and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012959
