strategic messaging and diplomatic demarches. Email makes it easy for officials up-and-down the
chain to plunge into the fray, battling to mold language for use at a daily briefing; language that all-
too-often mystifies or misleads foreign listeners who hang on words from the podium as if they are
meant to convey the results of deep, deliberative thought on the part of the world's only superpower.
Yet email neither created the problem nor prevents its solution.

The problem is the failure of government, certainly in the context of Syria and likely in other foreign
policy contexts as well, to wrap the daily news cycle food fight in an insulated casing of objectives and
strategy clearly understandable to those charged with planning and executing foreign or national
security policy. There may be some who believe that objectives and strategy are just so 20th century;
so Brent Scowcroft-like and so pre-Twitter. There may be some who actually handle affairs of state in
ways they would not dream of applying to their personal financial portfolios. Perhaps resistance to
structured, deliberative processes producing objectives and accompanying strategies is a function of
fewer and fewer people in the national security establishment ever having availed themselves of
military service; an experience where matters of this nature become, through training and education,
as natural as breathing. Perhaps in the specific case of Syria there has been a temptation to avoid
the hard choices such a process would serve up in the hope that the regime of Bashar al-Assad
would just go away, thereby making hard choices someone else's problem.

The arrival of a new assistant to the president for national security affairs is an ideal opportunity to
restore best practices to the national security apparatus. To her credit, Susan Rice appears to be
reaching out with this very much in mind. If changes are made that better serve the president by
forcing people to think through policy options in the context of objectives and strategies, those
changes should not reflect poorly on the stewardship of her predecessor. The president gets
precisely the national security system he mandates and deserves. He is, as JFK noted in the
immediate wake of the Bay of Pigs fiasco, the responsible officer of government.

In the end it is the president, and not the Blackberry or some other device, who will drive the direction
and processes of foreign policy and diplomacy. It is up to him to tell his national security advisor that
he wants the interagency to stop tweeting and start thinking; to tell him how he should be evaluating
US national security objectives with respect to Syria (for example) and strategy options aimed at
accomplishing them. This kind of deliberative process will not require people to wear powdered wigs
and inscribe talking points on parchment with quill pens. It will not even oblige them to disconnect
electronically.

Perhaps the biggest obstacle to an orderly national security process that is deliberative is the sheer
brainpower of the people sitting atop the bureaucratic pyramid. Barack Obama and Susan Rice are
among the very brightest people to serve in the US government. They may think they can figure Syria
out themselves, within a small circle of trusted political advisers. They may think they can handle
Syria without reaching beyond their own national security staff, without probing deeply into the
Departments of State, Defense, the intelligence community, and elsewhere where additional
expertise resides. They will outsmart themselves if that is the approach they choose.

Blackberry diplomacy is a choice, not a device decision and certainly not a fact of life. Even in this
day and age, it is possible to figure out what one wants and how to go about getting it: even in
government work.

dentons.com

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030212
