105

does not include many other professional diaspora groups that may be used to facilitate
China’s influence operations.

Such Chinese groups have increased their activity in the United States since 2015,'° and
many of these groups have had interactions with the United Front Work Department and
other Chinese officials both in the United States and in China, contacts that are distinctly
different from invitations to embassy or consular diplomats and bear further scrutiny.!
At least eleven of the chambers identified in this
eau Seu hBS analysis were established in 2016 or later, consistent
with heightened activity observed in other sectors
(Bs 2271884 of society dedicated to projecting China’s soft power
eS} picts ti ial Ld ae tck and influence abroad. (Tellingly, China’s spending
on diplomacy has doubled to $9.5b per year under
Xi Jinping.)'* The US-Zhejiang General Chamber of
Commerce’s WeChat description explicitly references

Intro

MIE
oe a 2015 provincial directive on strengthening the

province's overseas Chinese connections (see

Type SK, screenshot). Many of these groups maintain their
own presence, via a website or, increasingly, the

View History WeChat social media platform. In one instance, our
researcher’s antivirus software blocked an intrusion

SS ee) attempt while researching the US-Fujian Chamber of

Commerce.

Chinese Companies Operating in America as a Vector of Influence

More than 3,200 Chinese-owned companies operate in the United States, employing
140,000 Americans. Chinese establishments operate in all but ten congressional districts.
As Chinese companies’ presence in the US economy grows, given the United Front’s
penchant for using civil society organizations for its purposes, they bring with them several
potential risks. First, their potential to be used by Beijing may result in activities that are
contrary to US interests, as evidenced by intense scrutiny of their investment activities by
CFIUS and reported warnings by counterintelligence officials. Second, growing access to the
US political system, even if currently used to advance legitimate economic interests, creates
openings for future exploitation by the Chinese government. Third, Chinese companies
may effectively “export” corrupt or unethical business practices.

Activities Contrary to US Interests

The technology sector has been the most consistent and prominent source of concern.
In 2012, the Intelligence Committee of the US House of Representatives declared
Chinese technology companies Huawei and ZTE a national security threat given the
firms’ alleged ties to the Chinese military and the potential for their technology to

Section 7

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020564
