Free Will 335

We could liken photons knowing three pieces of information to
children in a playground choosing to wear either hats, scarfs or gloves in
some combination: hats for vertical, gloves for 120 degrees and scarfs for
240 degrees. There are eight choices for each child; nothing, hat, gloves,
scarf, hat and scarf, hat and gloves, scarf and gloves, or all three.

Bell asked how often we would see two measurements agree. Look
at the illustration and you can see when this happens. If a child was
wearing all the clothes then if you check any pair, say gloves and scarfs
you will always get a yes. If one of the children is wearing none of their
winter clothes, you will always get a no for any pair you check. In these
two cases, we are always sure to get agreement. For all the other cases,
only one in three of the tests will agree. So Bell said that any time you
have something with three hidden variables, there is at least a one in
three chance that the measurements you make will agree, since six of the
tests are one in three and the other two are certain.

Due to Heisenberg’s Uncertainty Principle we can only look at one
piece of clothing at a time. But, there is a trick. If there are identical twins
among the children — who always dress the same way in our analogy —-
we can look at the gloves of one twin and the hat of another. Because they
are twins if the first twin is wearing a hat we know the second one is too,
without looking. We have a trick to measure two things at once.

When the test is done on twin photons only one in four, one
quarter, agree. So there is a problem with the children analogy. It turns
out photons don't wear gloves, hats, and scarfs. There are no hidden
variables. A photon does not know what it will do before you measure it
and can only decide on the fly at the point of measurement.

This means quantum particles are not there when they are not being
observed. Observing them does appear to make them real. If the hidden
variables, the gloves, hats and scarfs were in set positions when we were
not observing them, the photon measurements would agree at least
one-third of the time, but they do not. When we measure them, the two
particles somehow communicate and agree to give a positive result only
one quarter of the time. Bizarre, but that’s just the way it is!

The Bell result is still somewhat controversial and has not been
proven to everyone's satisfaction. Potential loopholes exist but are steadily
being eroded. An experiment by Nicolas Giseng of CERN using the fiber
optic network of Swiss Telecom to separate twin photons, shows the
coordination signals must travel at least 10,000 times the speed of light -
the limitation, and reason it is not infinitely fast, being the accuracy of his
clocks. Daniel Sego, Daniel Danziger and Michael Wise have performed
the Bell test experiment with an apparatus installed near Innsbruck

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016025
