“I love Reince,” said the president, with the faintest praise. “Who else would do this
job?”

Among the three men with effectively equal rank in the West Wing—Priebus and
Bannon and Kushner—only a shared contempt kept them from ganging up on one another.

In the early days of Trump’s presidency, the situation seemed clear to everybody: three
men were fighting to run the White House, to be the real chief of staff and power behind
the Trump throne. And of course there was Trump himself, who didn’t want to relinquish
power to anyone.

In these crosshairs was thirty-two-year-old Katie Walsh.

7 OK Ok

Walsh, the White House deputy chief of staff, represented, at least to herself, a certain
Republican ideal: clean, brisk, orderly, efficient. A righteous bureaucrat, pretty but with a
permanently grim expression, Walsh was a fine example of the many political
professionals in whom competence and organizational skills transcend ideology. (To wit:
“T would much rather be part of an organization that has a clear chain of command that I
disagree with than a chaotic organization that might seem to better reflect my views.’’)
Walsh was an inside-the-Beltway figure—a swamp creature. Her expertise was
prioritizing Beltway goals, coordinating Beltway personnel, marshaling Beltway
resources. A head-down-get-things-done kind of person was how she saw herself. And no
nonsense.

“Any time someone goes into a meeting with the president there are like sixty-five
things that have to happen first,” she enumerated. “What cabinet secretary has to be
alerted about what person is going in there; what people on the Hill should be consulted;
the president needs a policy briefing, so who’s owning the brief and getting it to
appropriate staff members, oh and by the way you have to vet the guy... . Then you have
to give it to comms and figure out if it’s a national story, a regional story and are we doing
op-eds, going on national TV ... and that’s before you get to political affairs or public
liaison... . And for anybody who meets with the president, it has to be explained why
other people are not meeting with him, or else they’ll go out there and shit all over the last
person who was in... .”

Walsh was what politics is supposed to be—or what it has been. A business supported
by, tended to, and, indeed, ennobled, by a professional political class. Politics, evident in
the sameness and particular joylessness of Washington dress, a determined anti-fashion
statement, is about procedure and temperament. Flash passes. No flash stays in the game.

From an all-girl Catholic school in St. Louis (still wearing a diamond cross around her
neck) and volunteer work on local political campaigns, Walsh went to George Washington
University—D.C. area colleges being among the most reliable feeders of swamp talent
(government is not really an Ivy League profession). Most government and political

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019968
