2. Shorten work time to limit tasks to the important (Parkinson’s Law).

The best solution is to use both together: Identify the few critical tasks that contribute most to income
and schedule them with very short and clear deadlines.

If you haven’t identified the mission-critical tasks and set aggressive start and end times for their
completion, the unimportant becomes the important. Even if you know what’s critical, without deadlines
that create focus, the minor tasks forced upon you (or invented, in the case of the entrepreneur) will swell
to consume time until another bit of minutiae jumps in to replace it, leaving you at the end of the day
with nothing accomplished. How else could dropping off a package at UPS, setting a few appointments,
and checking e-mail consume an entire 9-5 day? Don’t feel bad. I spent months jumping from one
interruption to the next, feeling run by my business instead of the other way around.

THE 80/20 PRINCIPLE and Parkinson’s Law are the two comerstone concepts that will be revisited in
different forms throughout this entire section. Most inputs are useless and time is wasted in proportion to
the amount that is available.

Fat-free performance and time freedom begins with limiting intake overload. In the next chapter, we’ll
put you on the real breakfast of champions: the Low-Information Diet.

A Dozen Cupcakes and One Question

Love of bustle is not industry.
—SENECA

MOUNTAIN VIEW, CALIFORNIA.

“S
aturdays are my days off,” I offered to the crowd of strangers staring at me, friends of a friend. It

was true. Can you eat All-Bran and chicken seven days a week? Me neither. Don’t be so judgmental.

Between my tenth and twelfth cupcakes, I plopped down on the couch to revel in the sugar high until
the clock struck midnight and sent me back to my adultsville Sunday—Friday diet. There was another
party guest seated next to me on a chair, nursing a glass of wine, not his twelfth but certainly not his first,
and we struck up a conversation. As usual, I had to struggle to answer “What do you do?” and, as usual,
my answer left someone to wonder whether I was a pathological liar or a criminal.

How was it possible to spend so little time on income generation? It’s a good question. It’s THE
question.

In almost all respects, Charney had it all. He was happily married with a two-year-old son and another
due to arrive in three months. He was a successful technology salesman, and though he wanted to earn
$500,000 more per year as all do, his finances were solid.

He also asked good questions. I had just returned from another trip overseas and was planning a new
adventure to Japan. He drilled me for two hours with a refrain: How is it possible to spend so little time
on income generation?

“If you’re interested, we can make you a case study and I'll show you how,” I offered.
Charney was in. The one thing he didn’t have was time.

One e-mail and five weeks of practice later, Charney had good news: He had accomplished more in
the last week than he had in the previous four combined. He did so while taking Monday and Friday off

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013845
