that result are often strategic, dependent upon changes in climate, other competitors, who happens to be in
a bad mood, and who is sexually active. In a variety of species, from dung beetles to deer, biologists have
developed mathematical models that accurately predict how long an individual should wait for a sexual
partner or feed in a food patch. The accuracy of these models shows that individuals’ desires for resources
linked to survival and reproduction are captured by lawful principles or rules. This is important because it
means we understand how the machine underlying behavior works. It means we understand how animals
make certain choices.

Understanding how wanting works is straightforward. In both humans and nonhuman animals,
we can measure what individuals approach when we give them a choice, as well as how much effort they
are willing to exert while approaching and gaining access to a particular object or experience. For
example, in studies that explore whether captive animals are provided with sufficient housing conditions,
an experimenter presents individuals with a choice of rooms, one consisting of the typical housing
environment and the others by the addition of goods believed to be of interest. To enter a given room
requires opening a door. To determine how much an individual really wants what is in another room, the
experimenter ramped up the difficulty of opening each door. In studies of captive hens and mongoose,
individuals exerted considerable effort to open some doors but not others. Hens rammed into doors
opening onto a chipped wood floor, whereas mongoose did the same for a pool of water. These are items
they want, but do not get in captivity.

What about liking? It may seem, at first blush, that because liking is a subjective experience, that
there are no clear objective ways to measure it. My likes are my own. You can’t possibly know what it
is like to be me. If you can’t know what it is like to be me, then we can’t possibly know what it is like to
be a mongoose, mouse or monkey. There are, however, ways of measuring liking and disliking that are
reliable, objective, and consistent across species. In many animals, including human babies who can’t
speak and human adults who have lost this capacity due to brain injury, there are distinctive behaviors
that are consistently linked to positive experiences and others linked to negative ones. For example, in
mice, monkeys, and human babies, tasting something sweet like sugar causes a lot of lip licking, whereas
tasting something bitter such as quinine causes mouth gaping, nose twitching, and arm flailing. These
similarities show that evolution has been conservative, maintaining the same underlying mechanisms for
handling likes and dislikes. These similarities have enabled scientists to understand how the brain systems
involved in wanting and liking can change together or separately, even though they can’t help us
understand the harder problem of what, in particular, it is like for a given mouse, monkey or man to like
something.

To understand the machinery that drives rodent wants or desire, Susana Pecifia and Kent Berridge

took advantage of the genetic technique that Joe Tsien —mentioned in the last chapter — used to create

Hauser Chapter 2. Runaway desire 59

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012805
