This can be found on the Internet at:

http://clarissethorn.com/blog/2011/04/22/going-under/

ORGASMIC DYSFUNCTION:
[storytime] A Unified Theory of Orgasm

At one point during my blogging career, an editor for the iconic feminist publication Ms.
Magazine got in touch and asked me to do some promotion for them. I asked if they
would accept a submission from me, and when the editor said yes, I poured my soul into
this long article about my experiences learning how to have an orgasm. The article was
rejected by Ms., so I went back to my old friend the Internet and got published on the
adorable girl-power site OffOurChests.com. Then it was cross-posted in about a million
places. I would love to get published in Ms., but in retrospect, I'm actually glad that this
piece went out on the Internet instead of being trapped in a print publication. I've
received an enormous amount of positive feedback for this piece, and I'm certain that
most of the young people who tell me it helped them would never have seen it if it were in
a print magazine.

te Kk ok

A Unified Theory of Orgasm
I CAN'T COME.
and it's poisoned
every romance
I've ever had.

masturbating doesn't work. I don't know why. I tried therapy too, but my smart,
understanding, sex-positive, open-hearted doctor couldn't help. drugs while fucking?
check. I date attentive men who only want to make me happy, but no matter how fantastic
they make me feel, I can't get off: and believe me, I like sex. I love sex! how can it feel so
good and not end in an orgasm? I tried experimenting, and I sure do love the kink. it
feels great. but doesn't get me off. I've tried everything. everything.

now I have the best boyfriend I've ever had. but just like every other one, he can't get me
off. big dick? oral sex? tons of foreplay? kink? it's all there. nothing works. I used to lie
to my boyfriends and say it was ok that I couldn't get off. then at least they could enjoy
sex without feeling guilty. but then they'd stop trying, of course. and this one is still
trying... sometimes. I mean, it's clearly never going to work. so I can't blame him for not
having the same passion for trying as he used to. and I keep thinking I should back off-
after all, why put pressure on him to perform? he'll just resent me if I keep asking for
more, even if I'm gentle about it and compliment him and all that. since nothing he does

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018496
