17

ABROAD AND AT HOME

n May 12, Roger Ailes was scheduled to return to New York from Palm Beach to

meet with Peter Thiel, an early and lonely Trump supporter in Silicon Valley who
had become increasingly astonished by Trump’s unpredictability. Ailes and Thiel, both
worried that Trump could bring Trumpism down, were set to discuss the funding and
launch of a new cable news network. Thiel would pay for it and Ailes would bring
O’Reilly, Hannity, himself, and maybe Bannon to it.

But two days before the meeting, Ailes fell in his bathroom and hit his head. Before
slipping into a coma, he told his wife not to reschedule the meeting with Thiel. A week
later, Ailes, that singular figure in the march from Nixon’s silent majority to Reagan’s
Democrats to Trump’s passionate base, was dead.

His funeral in Palm Beach on May 20 was quite a study in the currents of right-wing
ambivalence and even mortification. Right-wing professionals remained passionate in
their outward defense of Trump but were rattled, if not abashed, among one another. At
the funeral, Rush Limbaugh and Laura Ingraham struggled to parse support for Trumpism
even as they distanced themselves from Trump himself.

The president had surely become the right wing’s meal ticket. He was the ultimate
antiliberal: an authoritarian who was the living embodiment of resistance to authority. He
was the exuberant inverse of everything the right wing found patronizing and gullible and
sanctimonious about the left. And yet, obviously, Trump was Trump—careless, capricious,
disloyal, far beyond any sort of control. Nobody knew that as well as the people who
knew him best.

Ailes’s wife, Beth, had militantly invited only Ailes loyalists to the funeral. Anyone
who had wavered in her husband’s defense since his firing or had decided that a better
future lay with the Murdoch family was excluded. This put Trump, still enthralled by his
new standing with Murdoch, on the other side of the line. Hours and then days—carefully
tracked by Beth Ailes—ticked off without a condolence call from the president.

The morning of the funeral, Sean Hannity’s private plane took off for Palm Beach from

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020051
