String Puller | 61

Snowden was an avid reader of Greenwald’s screeds against the
government. If he were to assume the role of a modern-day Pro-
metheus, delivering forbidden NSA secrets to the public, Greenwald
would be a logical candidate to break the story. Snowden could safely
assume that Greenwald would be sympathetic to exposing NSA sur-
veillance from his many blogs, tweets, and YouTube comments on
the subject. For example, on November 13, 2012, just eighteen days
before Snowden contacted him, Greenwald had written a blog for
The Guardian asserting that the United States was “a surveillance
state run amok.” In it, echoing very closely what Snowden said at his
CryptoParty, Greenwald wrote, “Any remnants of internet anonym-
ity have been all but obliterated between the state and technology
companies.” Citing a story in The Washington Post, he continued,
“Every day, collection systems at the National Security Agency
intercept and store 1.7 billion e-mails, phone calls and other types
of communications.”

Asa result, Greenwald called for action in that blog posting, writ-
ing, “The US operates a sprawling, unaccountable Surveillance State

© that, in violent breach of the core guarantees of the Fourth Amend- ©
ment, monitors and records virtually everything even the most
law-abiding citizens do.” That same week, Snowden invited Runa
Sandvik to co-host his CryptoParty.

One problem for Snowden in reaching out to Greenwald was
Greenwald’s lack of any encryption for his e-mails. Communicating
with a journalist like Greenwald who famously attacked the very
organization for which Snowden worked was itself a risky under-
taking, especially if he wanted to pass classified NSA documents to
him. If his e-mails were intercepted by the NSA in Brazil (where
Greenwald lived) and where the NSA was not restricted by U.S. law,
he could lose his job or even be arrested. As Cincinnatus, he told
Greenwald that he needed to immediately encrypt his computer. To
make his point, he cited Greenwald’s November 12, 2012, blog. In it,
Greenwald noted that General David Petraeus, then the CIA direc-
tor, had been caught in a sex scandal because his personal e-mails
had been intercepted. Snowden wrote to Greenwald that Petraeus
would not have been exposed if he had used encryption. Snowden
sent Greenwald instructions on how to install the necessary encryp-

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 61 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019549
