B

subservient status. This may explain why al Assad felt the need to
stress in his speech that his minority government would not take
revenge against those who stand down from their protests.

Turkey is understandably nervous about what is happening next door
in Syria. Ankara would prefer a Syria ruled by a stable Sunni regime,
especially one that would look to Turkey's ruling Justice and
Development Party (AKP) for political guidance. However, the Turks
can see that Alawite leadership will not leave power without a long
and bloody fight. Recreating a sphere of Turkish-modeled Sunni
influence in the Levant may be a long-term goal for Ankara, but the
Turkish government is certainly not prepared to pay the near-term
cost of civil strife in Syria spilling across Turkish borders.

Turkey has so far addressed this dilemma mainly through rhetoric,
issuing angry speeches against Syrian leadership, while floating the
idea of a military buffer zone for Syrian refugees. For awhile,
assuming the role of regional disciplinarian played well to an AKP
public-relations strategy that portrayed Turkey as the model for the
Arab Spring and the go-to mediator for the Mideast's problems. But
the more Syria destabilizes - and with each time it ignores Ankara's
demands - the more Turkey risks appearing impotent.

The crisis in Syria will likely lead to a recalibration of Turkish
foreign policy. The architect of Turkey's foreign policy, Foreign
Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, coined the phrase zero problems with
neighbors to describe the guiding principle of Turkey's interactions
with surrounding regimes. Turkey obviously has a problem with
Syria's leadership, and not a small one. It is becoming increasingly
apparent that Turkey may not yet have what it takes to deal with
Syria, beyond issuing rhetorical censures. Establishing a military
buffer zone as a safe haven for Syrian refugees not only would call
for an international mandate, but would entail Turkish troops
occupying foreign land - which would likely set off alarm bells

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030164
