completions
refurbs

Eichten said Pats did a nine-year
maintenance check on a BBJ last year
and included a major refurbishment
at the same time. The center has also
sent out “quite a number of bids” on
BBJs due for the 12-year maintenance
check, and all include “substantial
refurbishment work.”

King Aerospace is looking toward
the bizliner business for a boost. “We're
in discussions now with international
customers for executive conversions
and even a green airplane comple-
tion,” said Jerry King. “And they’re all
widebodies.”

According to David Edinger, CEO at
Comlux America in Indianapolis, many
of the early Airbus A319s and Boeing
Business Jets have had minimal cabin

A technician in the Goodrich interior paint shop in
Wichita applies finish to a piece of cabin cabinetry.

upgrades since they entered service some
12 years ago, and the cabin electronics are
practically antique.

Edinger said Comlux America, part
of The Comlux Group in Switzerland, is
“really starting to roll.”

He told AIN the first green airplane
has been delivered—an ACJ319-and it
came in 1,000 pounds below the comple-
tion allowance weight. It also tested with
an average cabin noise level of 48 dB(SIL),
“about what you might expect in a sub-
urban living room, and it was under the
projected noise level by 3 dB(SIL).”

Currently undergoing refurbishment
is a Boeing 757 and a pair of Airbus
ACJs. In the second quarter this year,
a BBJ to be outfitted for Hyundai was
scheduled to roll into the Comlux han-
gar. Comlux America is approved by
both Airbus and Boeing for interior
outfitting. “We want to focus on BBJs
and ACJs and do this segment well and
on time,” said The Comlux Group pres-
ident Richard Gaona.

Lufthansa Technik in Hamburg, Ger-
many, is working on a Boeing 767 execu-
tive interior and is looking for two 747-8s
to roll in by year-end.

Walter Heerdt, Lufthansa’s senior
v-p of marketing and sales, expects the

jtinues on page 30

A private lavatory in a narrow-body_bizliner features
liberal use of dark veneer and a marble countertop.

SkyTheater | Continued from preceding page ;

in unique multi-channel surround-sound, as

well as to promote them to the film and televi-

sion industries for soundtrack recordings.”

In 2007, “an executive closely associated
with the Internet industry came to Launer
with his new Global Express XRS, and made it
clear that what he wanted was far beyond any-
thing off-the-shelf.” In 2008 the airplane was
delivered with a complete and custom-built
SkyTheater that includes:
¢ 1080p high-bandwidth wiring throughout
® monitors and speakers
® audiovisual on-demand (Avod) with a library

of more than 1,000 movies.

e@a SkyTheater app to allow passengers to
use personal iPhones and iPads to control all
aspects of the entertainment system.

® a customized touch-screen control package.

“The owner can also customize the sound
balance in the cabin by simply going through
the field until he finds a ‘flavor’ he likes,”
explains Launer. “In this particular airplane,”
says Launer, “SkyTheater is pre-tuned for the
owner's personal tastes to reproduce audio
identical to what he would hear in the Holly-
wood Bowl or Lincoln Center or some other
popular venue.”

Totally Absorbed in the Moment

Putting SkyTheater through its paces on
the Global, Launer selects surround sound and
asks visitors to walk through the entire cabin,
to sit anywhere they like, even lie on the floor
and note any change in the audio. His grin
broadens as not one individual professes to
detect a difference.

Launer goes on to select Star Wars Episode
Vi: Return of the Jedi, picking the scene of the
chase on Ewok speeder bikes through the for-
est of Endor. “Now listen closely,” he advises.
As the action roars across the screen, it is per-
fectly paced by the sound in that reality, “and
if | hadn’t told you to listen, you would have
been totally absorbed by the experience with-
out realizing why.

“What | aim for is not only a perfect audio
system, but one that is perfectly synchronized
with the film,” he says.

But is it high-definition? Launer expresses
mock surprise at the question. Then he admits
that not everything in the Global's film bank
is HD; however, he also points out that with
the technology to tune the system properly,
even a pre-digital recording will be rendered
in sufficient high definition as to be almost
unrecognizable as anything else. And he also

28 Aviation International News ¢ July 2012 ¢ www.ainonline.com

explains that simply having a Blu-ray player or
Avod and an HD monitor does not ensure an
HD experience. “You have to have the band-
width to carry the signal that will allow 1080p
between the origin and the final destination.”

While the system in the Global Express
XRS is now almost four years old, and
SkyTheater has since done several more air-
planes, including Donald Trump’s recently
completed Boeing 757, the entertainment
package in the XRS remains, he claims,
“years ahead of anything else.”

Warren Justice, chief pilot on the Global,
chuckles when he remembers his first meeting
with Launer, “a big guy dressed like a biker and
wearing a black beret. But he knew what he
was talking about and no one in this company
has regretted listening,” Justice continues.
“I've never heard anything like what he put
into this airplane. Even after it was installed,
he insisted on going with us on a flight test to
tune the sound for cruise at 41,000 feet. He
personally programmed the individual con-
trols. It was so well thought out that the owner
went right into it on the first day and didn’t
need a single lesson.”

Since installation, the airplane has been all
over the world and not a single component of
the entertainment system has needed to be
changed, said Justice. However, he adds, on
several occasions, when the airplane was pass-
ing through Florida with a stop-over, Launer
has insisted on coming out to see if the system
was still properly tuned.

The system is not inexpensive, allows Jus-
tice. Just a little north of a million dollars. But
he adds, “If this is what you want, you'll defi-
nitely get what you pay for. | don’t know how
we could have done any better.”

Theo Kalomirakis, president of Theo Kal-
omirakis Theaters of Brooklyn, N.Y., is one of
the foremost designers of home theaters in
the world and has consistently turned down
requests to do an in-flight theater. “I have
been skeptical of the ability of anyone to con-
trol sound in such an environment,” he told
AIN. “What Gregg designed and built on that
Global Express is the first serious system I’ve
heard. Gregg has tamed the beast.”

But it isn’t just a matter of being good
at what you do, says Launer. “It’s a matter
of passion, and of loving what you do. Think of
SkyTheater as a personal transporter [a la Star
Trek]. You step into it in New York City and you
step out of it in Los Angeles, and everything in
between was just a moment in time.” —-K.J.H.

lacobucci Shines at EBACE
lacobucci HF appeared at EBACE with
a new espresso maker for the business
jet galley and a galley cart that doesn’t
look out of place on a large private jet.
The 28V espresso machine does not
work with the usual boiler but with
patented heat exchangers to ensure
instant and continuous operation with-
out waiting for the water to reheat
after each use. In addition, the heat
exchanger makes for a much lighter
machine, and its “open system” allows
the use of all easy-serve espresso pods.
The serving cart, created by
DesignworksUSA, features attachable
“skins” or even transparent windows to
allow passengers to see available items. For
use in a private jet, the top surface can be
modified for a more formal appearance.
“We brought the style, fit and finish
that customers expect to find in pre-
mium environments at home to enhance
their on-board experience,” said Lau-
renz Schaffer, president of BMW Group
DesignworksUSA.

An espresso maker and an executive galley cart
are two new items from Italy’s lacobucei HF.

AirGlide Coatings Cut Fuel Burn

Aviation marketing consultancy Action
Aviation has signed an exclusive distri-
bution agreement with AirGlide, a UK
company that claims that its new Avia-
tion Shield nano-technology coating can
result in fuel-burn savings of about 4
percent through a drag reduction of up
to 40 percent.

According to Action Aviation’s web-
site, an ACJ318 on a two-hour flight
might burn 9,500 pounds of fuel. With
the AirGlide coating, the same aircraft
would burn 200 pounds less fuel over
that same route.

Other advantages include reducing the
carbon footprint, reducing cleaning and
maintenance costs and greater protec-
tion against corrosion and erosion. It
also means, the company claims, that
the exterior paint will last longer.

AkzoNobel Wins
Airbus Approval

AkzoNobel Aerospace Coatings of the
Netherlands has received approval of its
Aerobase base coat and Aviox UVR clear-
coat system from Airbus as an option.

The system allows selective removal
of only the base coat/clear coat in
preparation for repainting, leaving
the original primer intact and thereby
saving the aircraft owner time and
money, according to the Amsterdam-
based company.

Further, AkzoNobel said the system
“was developed in line with one of Air-
bus’s key objectives to produce aircraft
that are friendlier to the environment
and more eco-efficient.” The base coat/
clear coat system is ready for use in
series production.

Continues on page 30

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030014
