inflammatory disease in individuals who
experience chronically high levels of
loneliness.”

The effects of loneliness are not
limited to an increase in health-
threatening processes. Loneliness has
also been associated with a decrease in
health-restoring processes. Sleep is the
quintessential example. Much of what
feels stressful and depressing at the end
of a long day is perceived differently
following a good night’s sleep. Good
quality sleep is the clincher. Lonely and
non-lonely individuals do not differ in
the amount of sleep they get, but lonely
people have poorer sleep quality than do
non-lonely people. They experience
more micro-awakenings during the night
and they awake feeling more tired and
less capable of meeting the demands of
the day. Poor sleep has been associated
with elevated blood pressure and
cardiovascular mortality, and this may
help to explain the poorer health
outcomes of chronically lonely
individuals. In short, lonely days extend
into the nights and lessen the restorative
nature of sleep.

Loneliness and Health: It’s Not Just
Peripheral

From this sampling of the
widespread effects of loneliness on
health, lifestyle behaviors, physiological
functioning, genetic transcription, and
sleep quality, it should be clear that the
invisible power of felt isolation has long
tentacles that have the potential to
influence all of physiology. Not only
physical health, but also cognitive health
is compromised. Indeed, one of the most
sobering findings of recent years is that
loneliness places people at risk for
impaired cognition and dementia. In a
4-year prospective study of initially
dementia-free older adults, the risk of
Alzheimer’s Disease was more than

Page |45

twice as great in lonely than in
nonlonely individuals. In addition,
loneliness was associated with lower
cognitive ability at baseline and with a
more rapid decline in cognition during
the 4-year follow-up. Similar results
were reported for a sample of 75-85-
year-old individuals over a 10-year
follow-up.

The effects of loneliness on
cognition are evident at an even more
fundamental level.' Self-regulation, or
the ability to regulate one’s attention,
cognition, emotion, and/or behavior to
better meet social standards or personal
goals, is impaired in lonely individuals.
For instance, among young adults,
instructions to shift auditory attention
from the dominant right ear to the non-
dominant left ear resulted in impaired
performance in lonely relative to
nonlonely individuals. Loneliness also
alters emotion regulation. In middle-
aged and older adults, loneliness was
associated with a diminished tendency to
capitalize on positive emotions, and this
explained why lonely individuals were
less likely than nonlonely individuals to
engage in physical activity. Impaired
cognitive regulation is evident in
experimental studies that manipulate
feelings of isolation. Participants who
receive feedback that induces a sense
that they are doomed to a future of social
isolation perform significantly worse on
tests of reasoning, behave more
aggressively, and choose more tasty but
unhealthy foods than other participants
who receive feedback indicating a future
of social connection or bad feedback of a
non-social nature, namely that their
future will consist of general
misfortune.'* There seems to be
something uniquely threatening about
the prospect, and the reality, of feeling

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021291
