thetimes-tribune.com

e Home
e About

Home > Uncategorized > Trump meets with docs today as Congress preps Obamacare repeal

Trump meets with docs today as Congress preps Obamacare repeal

December 28th, 2016
Goto comments Leave a comment

In case you’re interested, President-elect Donald Trump meets today with a a group of doctors at his Mar-a-
Lago resort in Palm Beach, Florida.

They are Dr. John H. Noseworthy, president and chief executive officer of the Mayo Clinic; Dr. Paul B.
Rothman, dean of the medical faculty, vice president for medicine of The Johns Hopkins University and chief
executive officer of Johns Hopkins Medicine; Dr. Bruce Moskowitz; Dr. David F. Torchiana, president and
chief executive officer of Partners HealthCare; and Dr. Toby Cosgrove, president and chief executive officer
of the Cleveland Clinic.

The Cleveland Clinic has lots of patients, but a notable one is U.S. Rep. Tom Marino, R-10, Lycoming Twp.,
one of Mr. Trump’s top supporters, who has undergone kidney cancer surgery there.

None of the doctors gave to Mr. Trump’s campaign and generally don’t contribute much to political
campaigns if at all. When they do, they donate mostly to Democrats.

Mr. Trump is also meeting with Isaac Perlmutter, chief executive officer of Marvel Entertainment, and David
M. Rubenstein the co-founder of Carlyle Group.

Mr. Perlumuter hardly ever gives to political campaigns either, but his wife, Laura, gave $2 million to former
presidential candidate Marco Rubio’s campaign super PAC, according to The New York Times.

Mr. Rubenstein gives extensively to candidates from both parties.

Neither he nor Perlmutter gave to Mr. Trump.

— BORYS KRAWCZENIUK

Author: borys Categories: Uncategorized Tags: Bruce Moskowitz, Cleveland Clinic, David F. Torchiana,
David Rubenstein, Donald Trump, Isaac Perlmutter, John H. Noseworthy, Laura Perlmutter, Marco Rubio,
Mayo Clinic, Palm Beach Florida, Paul B. Rothman, Toby Cosgrove, Tom Marino

Ghostery blocked comments powered by Disqus.

Q»»

Ted Cruz humming forget-filled tune on president-elect Donald Trump

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019213
