Free Will 345

to think the Moon is there when I am not looking at it.” But, how can we
test his statement? How can we know something is there without taking
a look? There is a way...

Let us suppose the particle had a definite spin before we measured
it. Perhaps its spin points at the top left hand corner of the room. Imagine
taking many measurements and seeing what happens. We can point our
hand in any direction: top of the room, bottom left corner, bottom right
corner and so on. Each time we point our hand in a direction we must
get 1,0 and 1 in some combination (110, 011, 101). The particles are 101
particles and this is an absolute rule.

Let’s imagine doing the experiment. We fix the spin of a particle

and begin to take measurements, noting the answers as we go. If we get
a borderline condition we obey the 101 rule and give ourselves a 1, 0, 1
reading. As we move our hand to take measurements, a problem begins
to emerge. Every now and again we obtain a measurement that conflicts.
We chose a 1, 0, | when we were pointing our index finger towards the
floor, but if we point the finger toward the door, we need that original
middle number to have been a 1 for consistency. (The middle finger is
now pointing in the direction the index finger pointed to for the first
reading.) To fix the inconsistency we can change our original borderline
decision to a 1,1,0. All is well and we continue. But, as we get over 30
measurements, we can't seem to find any way to make all the 1,0,1s fit
together. After scratching our
head for a while, we realize there
might be no solution. And indeed
there is not. This is the Kochen-
Specker Paradox. The odd shaped
cubes on the building in the
Escher print are an example of
one of these impossible figures.

An analogy to this problem
is trying to solve a_ broken
Rubik’s Cube. There is a really
mischievous trick you can play on
someone: reverse two colors on a
Rubik’s Cube. You can easily do
this by snapping one of the edge
blocks out, turning it around and
snapping it back in. When the
colors are already muddled up 101 puzzle piece
this is not obvious. Now give your

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016035
