COWEN
COLLABORATIVE INSIGHTS February 25, 2019

use as heating fuel, and also see potential to act as a cellulosic biofuel. The process of
pelleting industrial hemp biomass would be a similar to that of pelleting wood waste,
which gets converted into densified biomass products such as roundwood, pulpwood,
sawmill residuals, and wood product manufacturing residues, which typically cost ~$30
per ton. Wood biomass fuel has an annual capacity of 12.6 million tons per year and
produces ~675 GWh per year in energy. Access to local refineries is key to utilizing hemp
biomass as a cellulosic biofuel. Through local access to refineries, the fuel can be refined
while transportation costs, which can make the products uncompetitive, are minimized.
Given the commoditized market for biodiesel however, where soybean oil has ~50% of
the market input by weight and corn oil has ~15% of the market input by weight, we do
not expect hemp to materialize as a meaningful player due to the competitive
advantage of high production crops competing for low cost production.

2

Figure 135 - Biodiesel Production By Input (Millions Of Pounds)

1,600
1,400
1,200
1,000
800
600
400
200

SSSSSRSNENES455S55R5SS55aaseeseagagas
@ Canola oil Corn oil | Cottonseed oil = Palm oil = Soybean oil m Other Vegetable
Poultry Tallow White grease @ Other Animal Fats m Yellow grease m Other Recycled
m Algae m Other Alcohol m Catalysts

Source: Cowen and Company, EIA

Biochemical CBD Production Methods

CBD is most commonly produced by either CO2 or ethanol extraction from hemp plants.
In CO2 extraction, plants are filtered through a series of chambers with temperature
and pressures applied to the plants that isolate the cannabinoids. The CO2 method is
able to isolate CBD at a 90% efficiency and is typically used when producing small
quantities. Ethanol extraction introduces the hemp plant to solvent ethanol and enables
higher volumes production. In addition to hemp-based production of CBD, we believe
the opportunity exists for players within the biochemical space to produce CBD by
utilizing a fermentation approach from other feedstocks. Amyris recently announced a
$255 million cannabinoid development, licensing and commercialization agreement.
Amyris plans to utilize the C5 molecule found in sugarcane in a fermentation process to
produce CBD. The company believes that the fermentation process ensures a level of
purity that is not possible through traditional plant-based production, where CBD levels
can vary from plant to plant. In order to build out the industrial scale necessary for mass
food market, CBD products will need to be produced at standardized levels. Given
Amyris plans to produce CBD at its Brotas plant in Brazil, which is fueled by biomass co-
product of the nearby sugarcane fields, we believe this will be an attractive option for
companies looking to integrate CBD into their products sustainably assuming the
company is able to produce cost competitively with hemp plants.

COWEN.COM 95

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024911
