Real-Life Learning Projects Considered &9

there will be some text to read and some questions to answer to make
sure that you have read the text. Personally, I doubt that one could
learn much about any of these subjects by oneself in 8 hours (or even
8 days.) Clearly, they are teaching vocabulary and a few facts. Most of
it will be forgotten.

Now suppose the insurance industry had come to me and asked
my company to build a course that covered these topics. What would
I say? (Apart from: Are you nuts?—not in 8 hours.)

I would start by asking what is hard about insurance adjusting. At
the same time, I would have already assumed that this was basically a
diagnosis task.

Diagnosis is a complex cognitive process that has three important
parts. The most important part is the end result. All successful diagno-
ses result in an answer (cancer, stopped up sewer line, misfiring spark
plug, paranoia, etc.). These results are taken from a list of acceptable
answers and typically are not in any way inventive. The second part
is the case. A prototypical case for all possible results typically is com-
pared with the current case. A match determines the result. The third
part is the evidence. To construct a case, one must gather evidence.
When more than one prototypical case matches the situation, more
evidence needs to be gathered in order to differentiate the cases that
might match. Doctors call this differential diagnosis.

How does one learn to do diagnosis? One must know the pro-
totypical case, which often takes years for one to acquire naturally
through experience. One must know how to gather evidence, and
what constitutes evidence, and one must know the possible set of re-
sults. All of this takes a long time to learn. But the process itself is very
much the same no matter what you are diagnosing. So, one question
we would ask was whether the students in the course had any experi-
ence diagnosing anything. It is easier to teach diagnosis to people who
have done it before even if the subject matter is different this time.
Another question we would ask is how much the students knew about
the basics of the subject matter since it is easier to teach diagnosis to
those who already know the subject matter.

So when I ask what is hard about insurance adjusting, I have a
good idea of what the answer may be. It is probably in one of these
three things. Is it difficult to learn all the kinds of cases that there are
and what differentiates one from another? This depends on how many

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023815
