You have a bomb of colored string that your retarded children have formed , It has to be very carefully
unwound , even the substitution of Barry for your next trustee, needs a careful focus on procedure.s It would
be much preferable if Wechsler was not his replacement. do you have any person you trust ??!. Iam
concermed re brad taking barrys place re XXXX. In the beginning Barry will need to find and learn
ACCURATE .. org charts. books , balance sheets . trust valuations. are alla part. Barry will need 2 months
to just get his arm around what is there , this is before any needed modifications.,

a way overdue re- fresh of your estate plan. . clats , trust. partnerships. grats. Ilcs. bank accounts , filing
requirements. etc. the long awaited review of the brh tra and shareholders agreement to see how they fit into
new plan. . XXXXX planning. art partnership engagement .. , airplane re-do. , buying another. .? boat
sale , Miami sale. . TRADING ACCOUNTS. . three years overdue. . an accounting system. fire john
.. Joslin stays for a year. or so. so does tom and . except for heather everyone should be replaced with
new. . Sell Artspace and shut down regan arts. . rationalize. cash flow reporting. cash mgmt. stock
sales. sec irs. gaming. foreign reporting. the 8865 mess will take months to review now. . you
CANNOT file unreviewed audited documents. .CANNOT!!! _ this will be very detailed work. . a self
inflicted wound - all avoidable if professionals had been in place to limit . or contain it. . . you will need
3 new hires .as there is no one in your office that is truly an A player. I have great hope in Barry as you
know. He will need to be trained. note
; One year is my guesstimate After 4 years of telling you , that you could do better than Halperin, : im glad
that you now are willing to follow barrys advice . I take no offense , in fact I take comfort in the fact that after
only one conversation with Barry you are now convinced to make that change . will take a year or more.

I expect as a friend you will understand that

I will no longer , not even for one day , work on your affairs . without the compensation that is long
overdue. . your unilateral idea of after care , not imposed on any other professional , except me, not paul
weiss ,( caesars alone , a direct screw up on their part ) tom, akin, , no one. needs toend.. you and I had
previously agreed no more of that , and this after you decided not to pay me per our agreement. to be fair I can
not sayim surprised as you have email after email , stating that , if you save a great deal of money, you
wont want to pay , so limit it to 40m per year. - water under the bridge

If I can find the time to work , on your project , which is not by any means certain as Ihave said, I hope
you understand that it now will have to be under my standard terms and conditions. and well documented so as
to avoid any more of the he said she said. I never want to have any more uncomfortable money moments with
you , I find it very distasteful. . soto beclear , my terms are as follows. I will only work for the usual 40
million per year. It needs to be paid, 25 million upon signing an agreement. 5 million every 2 months
thereafter for 6 months ie march may june . this can begin ifi am able in January. I will immediately stop
work , if the payment is not received. If you want me to work this year until Jan 15, it will be 10
million. paid upfront. after one year you will be left with a new estate plan a running office. staffed with
professionals overseen by Barry. (hallelujah ) a tax plan . and an investment that returns more than any
painting you could possible own. _. no agreement - no work. however - I of course will talk to Barry for the
hour that i promised , and take your guidance as to what I should say.

her the last two places. ?

To: Melanie Spinella
Leon please read the attached proposed response to the IRS__, see if you can understand it !!!._ Ive asked for a
re-do. and given prelimiary directions to Alan to have it edited over the weekend

If you are quarterbacking ,ok with me. just please let everyone know. you must deal with the outrageous
incompetence in your family office... Alans words  but I was told that.. , but I was told by the office (sic)
that ... , BUT i was told by joslin,. , but I was told by.  why is leon blaming me for... . I ve have always
given you my best advice, If you reflect on your financial life , you have been kept safe , had remarkable
results and no disasters. I have repeatedly urged you to get rid of the people in your office. , you
have repeatedly chosen to ignore my advice , youtold me last week that the emotional reason was in order
to be weaned off my group and not have to pay my high fees. ( though ignoring the benefit of between 1.5

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023342
