Case 1:17-cv-03956-PGG Document1-1 Filed 05/25/17 Page 2of5

Mr. Epstein pleaded not guilty in August to the crime he was ultimately charged
with, soliciting prostitution. But at a time when prosecutors around the nation have
become increasingly severe in dealing with people accused of sex offenses, the case
has raised questions about whether Mr. Epstein’s prominence won him preferential
treatment.

By the account of the police, they found probable cause to charge Mr. Epstein
with much more serious offenses: one count of lewd and lascivious molestation and

four counts of unlawful sexual activity with a minor.

But instead of proceeding with such charges on his own, the Palm Beach County
state attorney took the rare step of presenting a broad range of possible charges to a
grand jury, which indicted Mr. Epstein in July on the lesser count. In Florida,
prosecutors usually refer only capital cases to grand juries.

Even before the indictment, the Palm Beach police chief, Michael Reiter, had
accused prosecutors of giving Mr. Epstein special treatment and asked the state
attorney, Barry E. Krischer, to remove himself from the case.

In an editorial, The Palm Beach Post attacked Mr. Krischer, a Democrat whose
post is elective, saying the public had been left “to wonder whether the system tilted
in favor of a wealthy, well-connected alleged perpetrator and against very young girls
who are alleged victims of sex crimes.”

The case has taken a toll on the reputation of Mr. Epstein, who owns a palatial
home in Manhattan, has pledged $30 million to Harvard and once flew former
President Bill Clinton on his 727. Politicians including Eliot Spitzer, a Democratic
candidate for governor in New York, and Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, also a

Democrat, have returned campaign contributions from him.

But Mr. Epstein fought back, assembling a team of star lawyers, including
Gerald B. Lefcourt and Alan M. Dershowitz, a friend of his, to look into the
backgrounds of his young accusers.

Mr. Lefcourt says that the police acted “outrageously” and that his client has
been wrongfully dragged through the mud.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029409
