people. I do not work alone, I have a team whom I lead and encourage and on whom I rely. Within each human
being there is an inexhaustible source of potential, but there is no human being with unlimited capacity. What is
important is to know your capacities -- and how you should use them.

For fun, I spend my time with my family at the beach or in the desert. I love to read. I ride horses. My love for
horses is indescribably enormous; it is part of20my soul and history.
The National Abu Dhabi Media Company - Matt Slater

How are the Federal Government and the Government of Dubai cooperating to re-tool
the development model to address what many economists predict is a permanent
reduction in credit available from international capital markets

Whether the available global credit declines or increases, the model of our economy is stable and is developing
within the framework that we created earlier. Dubai’s needs for credit tend to decline and the government’s
loans, which are modest, compared to the size of the economy, all concern investment in infrastructure, not
current expenditures or operational budgets. The majority of our infrastructure projects are of a long-term
productive nature, such as the Dubai Metro, the expansion of the power generation station, and so on. With
regard to the loans of state-owned companies -- they are purely commercial in nature, and their calculations are
based on the cost of the loan and the return on investment. The global financial crisis has affected the liquidity
of the companies, and we believe that it is only a temporary impact. We have sufficient means to provide the
necessary liquidity for these companies. I would like to stress that Dubai's economy is part of the UAE
economy, and we cannot in any way deal with the situation as an independent entity. I will give you one
example: We say Abu Dhabi banks, Dubai banks and Sharjah banks. These terms relate to the location of the
headquarters only, since all banks operate in all the seven Emirates, and are subject to fiscal and monetary
policy overseen by one body, and one central bank. In any case, credit is always available, and even a few
months after the financial crisis, it had been available. Of course, this does not mean that all the available credit
is desirable. This issue is a subject to extensive studies and discussions and to cost-benefit equations.

By Al-Sharq al-Awsat Daily

The question of population demography has been a source of worry to the UAE
nationals, as it must certainly worry Your Highness. You have announced some
initiatives in this regard, uncovering a few of them. Could you tell us more about these
initiatives?

This question is important because of its ramifications and interconnection of its economic, social, and cultural
dimensions. His Highness the President of the UAE has defined our approach toward this question. He has said
that we have a positive outlook toward the demographic structure, showing the ability of our people and state to
mix this human quantity and variety in a human framework, capable of creating a model highlighting the power
of human interaction in the process of building and raising our state to assume an advanced position on the level
of civilization and development. Such a model will help us in gaining the respect and appreciation of local and
in ternational organizations for our human and civilized treatment of all residents in our country, providing
incentives for them to take active part in the development process of the UAE.

This vision, as defined by His Highness the President, does not remove from our sight the necessity of
preserving our national identity. This was the starting point which led to the formation of a high-level
committee, headed by the minister of interior, to deal with the question of demographic structure. We highly
appreciate the work of this committee, which drew out a number of initiatives to deal with this question and
take active measures in this connection. We are preparing other measures and decisions within our declared and
transparent policy for dealing with the question of demographic structure in a civilized manner, without

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024939
