Snowden’s Choices | 279

secretive National Threat Operations Center’s chief business was, as
its name suggests, countering direct threats from China, Russia, and
other adversary states and that to deal with these threats, the NSA
had used sophisticated methods to hack into the computers of adver-
saries. The NSA was even able to remotely gain entry to adversary
computers that were not hooked into a network. “It’s no secret that
we hack China very aggressively,” Snowden later said from Moscow.
He had a planned target: getting the lists of the enemy computers
that the NSA had hacked into.

He also knew he was undertaking a dangerous enterprise. He even
mentioned the possibility that he would be “in an orange jump-
suit, super-max prison in isolation or Guantanamo,” perhaps even
assassinated,

He knowingly chose this course presumably because he believed
the value of the secrets he would obtain by switching jobs out-
weighed the risk of imprisonment. Or worse. Part of his calculus
might have been the belief that the NSA lists, GCHQ documents,
and other material in his possession could give him great leverage, if

© he chose to exert it, in his future dealings with intelligence services ©
(including the NSA). His choice to widen his access was made, if not
to get rich, to empower himself.

The Second Decision

The second choice of consequence that Snowden made was to make
Hong Kong his first stop. He had many other options. He could have
remained in America, as almost all previous whistle-blowers had
chosen to do. If he did that, he would have to make his case in court
(and, in that case, the Level 3 documents he took might have been
retrieved before they fell into unauthorized hands). He could have
also chosen to make an escape to a country that did not have an active
extradition treaty with the United States. He could have, for exam-
ple, taken a direct flight to Brazil, which has no extradition treaty
with the United States. Brazil also had the advantage of being the
home country of Glenn Greenwald, whose cooperation he sought.
Snowden could have gone to many other countries without extradi-

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r.indd 279 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019767
