How the Best Universities Inadvertently Ruin Our Schools 203

The students objected that there were no faculty around and were
no classes, so they felt cheated in some way and asked why they had
to show up at all. We replied that they didn’t, since all the materials
they needed were online anyway. The students were assigned mentors
who were on campus, but after a while students interacted with them
by instant message instead of walking down the hall even when the
students were on campus. The students started out hating what we
did and wound up loving it. These were students in master’s degree
programs and they were, in essence, simulating the jobs they were
preparing for.

Even the faculty in Pittsburgh came to appreciate what we were
doing in California. But you will never hear about it (except from me).
Carnegie Mellon will never brag about it or publicize it in any way.

Why not?

What I did is very threatening. At one point the provost, realizing
that since the program was online, in principle we could serve a lot of
students, asked me whether I was going to put Golden Arches over the
campus and say over a million served. Seemed a good idea to me. But
not to Carnegie Mellon. We don’t want to cheapen our brand name,
the provost told me.

In other words, if hundreds of thousands of people had Carnegie
Mellon degrees, how prestigious would such a degree be? These de-
grees were in computer science, a field in which Carnegie Mellon is
number one or two in the world. But if too many people had these
degrees, the university’s prestige would go down, so whether or not
this was good educational practice, and the certifying boards certainly
thought it was, this was never going to happen.

I made the mistake of saying in an interview how well our experi-
ment was going, and was told by Carnegie Mellon to stop doing that.
It seemed that parents of undergraduates at Carnegie Mellon were
calling and asking why, if this method was so preferable to the usual
course-based method, it wasn’t being employed in Pittsburgh? Since
that could never happen—the professors would never allow it—I had
to stop giving interviews.

As I write this, the learn-by-doing master’s degree programs we
built are still running, but no more will be developed at Carnegie Mel-
lon. Eventually the ones I built will be shut down. The reason will be
that they employ teachers who teach (as mentors) all the time and
therefore don’t do research and that can’t be allowed. Not if you are in
the superstar prestige game.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023949
