Perhaps the cosmos teems with life, even complex life; on the other hand, our Earth
could be unique among the billions of planets that surely exist. That would be
depressing for the searchers. But it would allow us to be less cosmically modest —
Earth, though tiny, could be the most complex and interesting entity in the entire
Galaxy — and its fate of cosmic and not merely terrestrial significance.

. So let me conclude by focusing back closer to here and now.

Even in the 'concertinered' timeline that astronomers envisage -- extending billions
of years into the future, as well as into the past -- this century may be a defining era.
The century when humans jump-start the transition to electronic (and potentially
immortal) entities, that eventually spread their influence far beyond the Earth, and far
transcend our limitations. Or -- to take a darker view — the century where our follies
could foreclose the immense future potential.

We fret unduly about small risks — air crashes. carcinogens in food, low radiation
doses, etc. But I’s argue that we’re in denial about some newly emergent threats,
which may seem improbable but whose consequences could be globally devastating.
Some of these are environmental, others are the potential downsides of novel
technologies.

So how can those of us concerned about these issues — and inspired by Carl Sagan’s
long-term vision — influence policy-makers?

The trouble is that even the best politicians focus mainly on the urgent and parochial
— and getting re-elected. This is an endemic frustration for those who’ve been official
scientific advisors in governments. . To attract politicians’ attention you must get
headlined in the press , and fill their in-boxes. So scientists can have more leverage
indirectly -- by campaigning, so that the public and the media amplify their voice.
Carl was of course ta preeminent exemplar of the concerned scientist — and had
immense influence through his writings. broadcasts and lectures and campaigns..
And he was before the age of social media and tweets. He would have been a leader
of the recent march for science — electrifying crowds through his passion and his
eloquence.

And of course the challenges are global. Coping with potential shortage of resources --
and transitioning to low carbon energy --- can’t be solved by each nation separately.

Science is a universal culture, spanning all nations and faiths. So scientists confront
fewer impediments on straddling political divides. Carl was himself close to the
leaders of the Soviet space programme. The SETI initiative with Shklovski, and joint
projects with Raoul Sagdeev. And the campaign to raise concern about nuclear
winter.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026742
