Rating: 4.3 - 6 reviews
Visit Healthgrades for information on Dr. Jeffrey M. Epstein, MD. Find Phon

On Fri, Feb 7, 2014 at 4:17 PM, Tyler Shears <> wrote:
Thank you Christina - I tried your cell a few minutes ago and will be available on mine at your convenience. It
is imperative we get a placement out by mid next week in order for us to hit the timeline I spoke to Mr. Epstein
about.. The fresh piece needs to come out while we are dislodging the current results (as you are observing
now).

Mr. Epstein if you have any questions on current status vs. our conversation around Jan 10. please advise - We
are continuing to work aggressively to clean up results per our last call. Iam also available to discuss this at
your convenience today or over weekend.

Sincerely,

Tyler Shears

On Fri, Feb 7, 2014 at 10:47 AM, Christina Galbraith (iis > wrote:
Hi Tyler,

Ok thanks so much for the review. I've cc'd Jeffrey. I'll be in touch this afternoon.

Christina Galbraith

Begin forwarded message:

From: Tyler Shears iii i i>
Date: February 7, 2014 at 10:33:16 AM EST

To: Christina Galbraith <i >

Subject: Re: boosting strategy

We are pushing up the highest authority domains available for Jeffrey Epstein in general. I had reserved the
approach of pushing non-website URLs for a few months because you expressed concern with making sure
our URLs are on first page... but I had call w/ Mr. Epstein in the beginning of January and expressed that is a
limiting factor for moving Forbes/NYPost as quickly as we'd like.

Getting up different types of results for different folks is required to dislodge the negative placements. Once
they are dislodged it is much easier to restore our websites back to the rankings and have our ideal first
page. The reason for this is Google tracks click data on results and as soon as Forbes/NYPost are on second
page they will begin a slow death (less clicks on those, more clicks on the ones we have on first page)

From there we will see our properties shoot up due to the interlinking between them and the reinforcement we
can provide from sites like Harvard, Nat Geo, and any other publications we have influence over. Using the
short-term links is one battle around other pages is just a part of the overall war... You saw how Google was
changing up much more dramatically when we had multiple Epstein's on the first page vs. having a saturated
first page.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029551
