Instead of hitting the snooze button, sit up right and fill your morning with peace. These few minutes of
mindfulness will prepare you for your busy day to come. Pretty soon, you'll get so used to meditation in the
morning, that you won't want to start your day without it.

Second, a morning commute

If you take public transportation like a bus or the subway, you can use these moments for practicing meditation.
To be sure, you might be disturbed by the noise of other people taking and public-address announcements.

But by simply closing your eyes and taking long breaths, you will inevitably retreat into a cocoon where you
pay less attention to the sounds around you and train your mind on taking deep breaths. When you finally open
your eyes, you will feel a sense of accomplishment, that you have gone somewhere on your commute that few
others have — to a place of higher consciousness.

Third, a lunch retreat

When your colleagues and clients go to lunch, you can take advantage of this quieter period of the day. If you
have your own office, you can close the door and spend five minutes again practicing breathing in and out. If
you work in an open-office where you have limited privacy, you could either steal away into a conference room
or bathroom to find a few moments of peace.

Some forward-thinking firms like General Motors, Google and Intel encourage employees to practice
meditation, and some even have rooms and facilities on their campuses dedicated for this purpose. If you work
at one of these companies, make sure to take advantage of these benefits.

Fourth, a night time ritual

Before your turn down your bed and go to sleep, try spending a few minutes sitting upright on your bed and
practicing your breathing. You will find that when you are engaged in deep breathing exercises, it will help still
your thoughts and prepare you for a better night sleep. A night time practice of meditation might make you feel
better rested in the morning too.

We are currently reading:

This quote from my friend @mariashriver on her new book, /’ve Been Thinking...Reflections, Prayers, and

Meditations for a Meaningful Life:

“No matter how busy you are, carve out time in your day to get calm, to think, to reflect, to be present.”

How Healing Works, Dr. Wayne Jonas lays out a revolutionary new way to approach injury, illness, and
wellness.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026791
