these diseases further from what has historically been a death sentence into a chronic, treatable
condition. As this happens, huge markets will be created for entirely new biopharmaceutical
products. While cancer is the leading disease area, this pace of dramatic scientific and
technological progress is extending into several other areas of medicine and will likely
accelerate. Many of the initial examples of targeted or personalized therapies in non-cancer
indications have been in rare or so called orphan diseases following discovery of the
underlying genetic abnormalities. This period of rapid technology advancement establishes a
cycle of innovation in the market that creates great opportunity for highly focused, small,
companies.

Information Convergence:

The rate of innovation in information convergence has already accelerated relative to the
historical rate of innovation in healthcare information technology (“HCIT”) due to several
underlying factors. First, as mentioned, the HITECH Act provided billions in direct incentives
to encourage healthcare providers to adopt information technology, beginning with electronic
medical record (“EMR”) systems. This led to a significant increase in spending on EMRs which
benefitted large established EMR vendors, but it also benefitted new smaller players in the EMR
market. Importantly, the broad upgrade of information technology and deployment of EMRs
across the healthcare provider market has established a technology infrastructure in the market
that benefits an entirely new generation of companies that are developing technologies that
layer onto existing EMRs and address the next levels of IT adoption. This next level of
information technology adoption is dictated by the HITECH Act through a series of
“meaningful use” incentive initiatives.

Another key factor that has led to an acceleration in innovation in information convergence is
that most of the highest value innovation in this sector is arising from integrating technologies
that have been discovered, developed, validated, and implemented in completely different
sectors (e.g., cloud storage, mobile computing, wireless communications, web-delivered
software, diagnostics and sensors). These product development efforts draw heavily from
existing technologies and allow small companies focused on addressing discrete problems and
opportunities within the healthcare market to develop and launch products with minimal
technology discovery. The bulk of the effort in these activities is in rapidly creating high value
products by combining well-understood and available technologies, and getting them into the
hands of customers to evaluate their performance in real world use conditions. This early
customer experience allows companies to generate revenues early in their life, but also provides
valuable user feedback which can be used to continuously improve product design elements.
The benefit of this type of product development effort in the information convergence sector is
that it reduces risk, lowers capital requirements, and results in more predictable timelines.

Considering the size of the opportunity and the large number of discrete problems and
inefficiencies that must be addressed, the Fund Managers expect the next decade will be a

period of robust innovation and company creation. Smaller companies are likely to thrive
during this period as they are better able to quickly move from opportunity to product launch.

28 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024039
