ABUSE:
[theory] Thinking More Clearly About BDSM versus Abuse

I wrote this post in 2011. As I noted in the intro to The Alt Sex Anti-Abuse Dream
Team, other BDSMers have been writing about this more and more, and the discussion
is really heating up right now, in 2012. Thomas MacAulay Millar has a particularly good
series of posts on the topic, starting with:

http://vesmeansyesblog. wordpress.com/2012/03/23/theres-a-war-on-part-1-troubles-
been-brewing/

KK Ok

Thinking More Clearly About BDSM versus Abuse

Years ago, when I first started thinking about BDSM and abuse, I -- like a lot of feminist
BDSMers -- was defensive.

We get scared of the accusation that BDSM is always abuse... and we're accustomed to
accusations from certain feminists such as those of you who pretend to like BDSM just
have Patriarchy Stockholm Syndrome and don't know what you really want... and often,
we're also fighting our own inner BDSM stigma demons. We get angry that our sexual
needs are seen as politically problematic, or unimportant.

And so, for a lot of people, our instinctive angle on abuse in the BDSM community is:
Shut up! That's not what's going on! And that's a problem.

Obviously, I don't think BDSM is inherently abusive! Exploring my personal BDSM
desires has given me some extraordinary, consensual, transcendent experiences and
connections. I also genuinely believe that BDSM has the potential to control, subvert, and
manage power. BDSM can be a place where people learn to understand bad power
dynamics in past relationships; it can be a place where people learn to manage or
destroy bad power dynamics in their current relationships; it can be a place where
people find glory, self-knowledge and freedom by manipulating their own reactions
and responses to power. The sex theorist Pepper Mint has a great, complicated essay
about this called Towards a General Theory of BDSM and Power. And here's one of
my favorite quotations on the matter, from a submissive and former blogger who went by
violetwhite:

It's ironic that the most perverse manipulations of power in my life occurred in a past
vanilla relationship, where I tolerated tyranny because the normative structure of our
relationship obscured the fact that that is what it was.

Still, I've seen things happen in the BDSM community that turned my stomach. Terrible
manipulative behavior exhibited by people who have the greatest reputations. Blaming
the victim when they try to speak up. Telling rumor mongers to shut up when people
are trying to talk openly about problematic community members. The BDSM subculture
has its own version of rape culture, where lying bitch and drama queen and
miscommunication are used against abuse survivors. Miscommunications do happen...
but not everything that could be a miscommunication is actually a miscommunication.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018647
