run to other graduate fields such as biology and medicine and come to resist the
potentially humiliating incursions of new and potentially helpful abstract ideas and
operations from mathematics and physics into their fields. They do not want their
persecutory versions of Mr. Kirby to take up residence once again in their heads. |
can still feel his negative presence during long hours of struggle with the ego
deflating feelings of dumbness that an understanding of almost any new
mathematical concept requires of me. Holding Mr. Kirby’s voice off as long as | can
until, sometimes, the wonderful “aha!” experience arrives. | have tried to forgive him
since but forgetting him has not been possible.

It turns out that in the world of elementary, physically representative, real
numbers, the square root of a negative number has no meaning. Such a number
has understandably come to be called imaginary. Was this the answer Mr. Kirby

wanted? There was some conflict among mathematicians in the 17 and 18
Century about the arbitrary definition of V-las an imaginary number. |t was

symbolized by a letter, /, that is J-1 =i. The existence of i extended the range of
algebraic definitions so that a solution of the quadratic formula as above could be
found for the square root of a negative number. A further expansion of this idea was
to that of a complex number that can have both a real and an imaginary part. For
example, letting letters be generalized representations of numbers, a complex
number might be written, a + bi, real number a + real number b times /, the letters
such as a, b, c, d... symbolized real numbers. Consistent with membership in an
algebraic system, a + bi and c + di can be added and multiplied. This extension of
the real numbers into the imaginary realm permitted d’Alembert’s and Gauss’s
proofs (and many, more complete ones since) of the powerful Fundamental
Theorem of Algebra from which the faith derives about always being able to find at
least one solution to an algebraic equation. It was proven that any n” degree
algebraic equation (e.g. x+x'+...=0) with real or complex coefficients always
has at least one real or complex root.

Closer to an image that helps make intuitive connections with human born
again bifurcations, limit cycles and directional splitting is the geometric interpretation

of a complex number, let us now call it z. As above, algebraically, z is the sum of a

162

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013662
