Once, Epstein invited me to sit in on a day of presentations to him in
his dining room by various “quants.” Quant theory involves making
investments based solely on mathematical and statistical models. This
method can often have uncanny predictive powers. But the problem is it
doesn’t scale very well—the market, having discerned a pattern of successful
investing, quickly copies and discounts the advantage. Epstein’s effort was
to identify a dozen or so promising algorithms (each quant is effectively
hawking his secret sauce algorithm) and invest up to $5 million with each. I
knew paltry little about this and so rather found myself identifying with the
young women to whom Epstein was explaining the basic math and
mechanics—out of my league, but grateful for the lesson.

The Epstein house/office is, by careful design, exclusive and club like,
part hang out, part secret society. Along with the difficulty in explaining
why, even after his jail term, the rich and powerful have yet beaten a path to
his door, it’s also notable in the fixed hierarchy of who comes to whose turf,
that everybody, when they went to see Epstein, comes to him.

A week in late September, U.N. week as it happened, began, on
Sunday, at Epstein’s house with a colloquial for billionaires—Gates, TK,
TK, TK.

Epstein, preternaturally responsive to both the price of oil and to the
politics of the middle of East, entertained that evening a delegation from
Qatar, including Sheikh Hamad, the foreign minister. Hamad, indeed, lives
across the street in a similarly furnished house—he and Epstein have the
same decorator. Epstein, in his relaxed and amused demeanor, kept prodding:
“Why are you financing the bad guys? What do you get out of that?”

The Qatarians, in some mild diplomatic discomfort, seemed most
worried that their bid for the World Cup might be compromised by bribery
allegations.

At 9:00 next morning, Epstein is joined for breakfast in the dining
room by Reid Weingarten, who’s represented among other fat cats in
trouble, Worldcom’s Bernie Ebbers and Goldman Sach’s Lloyd Blankfein.
Weingarten, horse, with a cold, and dejected, is just back from a
failed defense of former Connecticut Governor John Rowland.
(Epstein: “You actually believe he was getting fucked?” Weingarten:
“From minute one. I’m not a virgin. But his was the worst I’ve ever seen. It
was like an assassination.)

After a short discussion of the Qartarian’s visit—Epstein is serving the
chocolate, made from pistachios grown on the Shakes farm—and
speculation about who actually controls ISIS, I am asked to leave the room.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022712
