Friday, November 9, 2012

VIRGIN ISLANDS

The Virgin Islands Daily News 3

Sen. Alvin Williams Jr. charged with
bribery, mail fraud and wire fraud

By ALDETH LEWIN
Daily News Staff

ST. THOMAS — Sen. Alvin Williams Jr. was arrest-
ed by federal agente Thursday and charged with bnbery,
mail fraud and wire fraud.

The proceeds of Williams’ cnmunal activities
$1.1 million, according to a statement from the U.S.
Attomey’s Office.

About 4 p.m. Thursday, almosta dozen 10 FBI agents
converged on the VI. Legislature building on St.
Thomas, according to several eyewitnesses.

The agents went inside and came out escorting Kim
Blackett, who is listed on the Legislature website as
Williams’ chief of staff. Blackett also was charged in an
indictment filed Thursday.

Another staff member also was charged, according to
the U.S. Attommey’s Office, which did not release the per-
son’s name.

Senate President Ronald Russell said he was on St.
Croix at the time the agents arrived at the Legislature,
but he was informed of the arrest. Russell said he was
told that Williams had surrendered to law.enforcement
officers.

“He tumed himself in, that’s what I understand,”
Russell said.

Russell said he had no additional information
Thursday.

In October 2011, about 25 federal and local law
enforcement officers raided the St. Thomas Senate
building and Williams’ office.

A federal grand jury handed up an indictment
Thursday charging Williams, Blackett and a third person
with operating and participating in cnmuinal activities
including bribery, wire fraud and mail fraud, U.S.
Attomey for the District of the Virgin Islands Ronald
Sharpe said in a prepared statement.

The indictment has not yet been posted by the District
Court. However, the statement from Sharpe includes a
number of details from the charging documents includ-
ing that Williams is accused of:

« Attempting to bribe Public Works Commissioner
Darryl Smalls with $10,000 in cash.

* Accepting bribes from the developers of Raphune
Vistas.

+ Accepting $35,000 in bribes from the developers o
the wind turbines at Tutu Park Mall. -

* Soliciting kick-backs from his own staffin exchange
for salary caises.

* Committing wire fraud by using public fimds to pay
for courses and having staff members submit work in
his name to obtain an online degree in his name from
University of Phoenix.

According to Sharpe, if Blackett and Williams are
convicted, they face a maximum 20-year prison sen-
tence and up to $250,000 in fines.

Public Works

On Sept. 5, 2009, Williams gave the V.I. Public
Works Commissioner $10,000 in cash in an attempt
to bribe him to give contracts to Ace Development
Inc., a company in which Williams had an interest,
Sharpe said.

In his answers to a Daily News candidate question-
naire for the 2006 Voter Guide, Williams said he was
the owner of Ace Development Inc.

At the time, Darryl Smalls was the Public Works
Commissioner. When The Daily News reached Smalls
on Thursday night, he said he had no comment.

Sen. Alvin Williams Jr.

Raphune Vistas

Between Feb. 21, 2007, and Nov. 18, 2011,
Williams solicited a bribe from the developers of the
Raphune Vista housing development project on St.
Thomas, according to the U.S. Attorney’s office. The
indictment says Williams promoted legislative action
and supported the authorization of funding and zon-
ing of the project in exchange for which Ace
Development received a contract related to the con-
struction of Raphune Vistas, Sharpe said.

As part of the contract, Ace Development used
and/or rented construction equipment to the develop-
ers, Sharpe wrote. =

In May 2009, the Senate approved a zoning change
for Oceanside Village Inc., the developers of Raphune
Vistas, from R-1, residential low density one- and
two-family, to R-4, residential medium density —
against the recommendations of the V.I. Department
of Planning and Natural Resources.

In June 2009, Gov. John deJongh Jr. vetoed the
zoning change.

Tutu wind turbines

In September 2008, Williams asked for and received
a $10,000 campaign contribution from the developers of
the Tutu Park windmill project as a bribe to support leg-
islation supporting the project, Sharpe said.

Williams also solicited $25,000 in campaign con-
tributions from the wind turbine developers between
September 2008 and September 2009, according to
the federal prosecutor.

A number of companies were involved with the wind
turbine project, including Green Power Electric; Dallas-
based Earth, Wind and Power, and Island Wind Power.

When the Senate passed a comprehensive renew-
able energy bill in 2009, an amendment was tacked
on to change the zoning code to allow wind turbines
in B-1 and B-3 business zones without having to seek
separate Zoning approval. The legislation also would
have allowed wholesale renewable energy production
in B-4 and B-3 zones.

The measure was line-item vetoed by deJongh in

July 2009.
Campaign funds and false reports

From January 2006 to December 2011, Williams | senator, St. ThomasSt.

and a legislative staff member failed to deposit cer- |

tain campaign contributions; withdrew funds froma |
campaign account; and submitted false campaign dis- |
closure reports that failed to include certain contribu- |

tions, according to Sharpe.

Kick-backs from staff

In the summer of 2010, Williams tried to solicit

kick-backs from his own staff in exchange for giving | e member of Rules and

them salary increases, the statement from the US.
attomey’s office said.

According to Sharpe, the staff members were sup-
posed to withdraw a portion of the increased salary in

cash and give it to Williams.
From September 2010 to July 2011, Williams
received such a bribe, Sharpe said.

University of Phoenix

From April 2007 to February 2008 and from January
2008 to October 2011, Williams and a staff member
committed federal wire fraud as the senator sought
online degrees from the University of Phoenix.

“The indictment alleges that the staff member
falsely submitted various documents that were gen-
erated, created and authored by others under the
direction of and in the name of Williams,” Sharpe
said in the statement.

From January 2008 to October 2011, Williams and
Blackett defrauded the government by using public
funds fornon-legislative purposes, namely pursuing an
online degree for Williams, Sharpe said.

“As the law enforcementarm of the U.S. Department
of Education, the Office of Inspector General will
aggressively pursue anyone who games the Education
system for their own selfish purpose,” Special Agent-
in-charge of the U.S. Department of Education Office
of Inspector General Yessyka Santana said in a written
statement.

The investigation

The investigation leading to the indictment was
conducted by the Public Corruption Task Force, a
joint federal and local team.

The case is being prosecuted by Assistant U.S.
Attomeys Kim Lindquist, Nolan Paige and Kelly
Lake.

“The prosecution of public corruption is a top pri-
ority of the U.S. Attomey’s Office,” Sharpe said. “It
is a breach of the public trust for public officials to
use their office for personal gain.”

“These individuals have allegedly abused their
powers by utilizing their positions to discreetly con-
duct illegal activities,” IRS-CI Special Agent-in-
charge Jose Gonzalez said Thursday. “IRS-Clis com-
mitted to following the money trail to ensure that
public officials who use their office to line their own
pockets are brought to justice and deprived of their
ill-gotten gains.”

Sharpe asked anyone with direct knowledge of ille-
gal acts or information on corruption in the Virgin
Islands to call the Public Corruption Task Force at
715-6516.

— Contact reporter Aldeth Lewin at 7 14-9111 or email

alewin@dailynews.vi.

Alvin
Williams Jr., 34

Democrat

John District.
MEBth, 2th

Legislatures.
Committees: Chairman

of Planning and

Environment Protection;

vice-chairman of

Government Operations;

Judiciary, Housing,
Sports and Veterans
Affairs, Public Safety,
Homeland Security and
Justice; liaison to the
U.S. Congress.

Education: 1996 graduate
of Charlotte Amalie High
School.

Claims to have earned an
AA online degree from
University of Phoenix,
but federal indictment
puts that in question.

Community positions:
Former president of St.
Thomas-St. John Horse
Owners Association.

Prior eniployment: Owner
of Ace Development Inc.
and general manager of
Alvin Williams Trucking
and Heavy Equipment
Rental, which his
Legislature website says
has been “contracted
by the federal and local
governments to provide
major development
services in the territory.”

Alvin
Williams Jr's
Senate staff

i Kim Blackett, chief of

staff.

Garry Sprauve, senior
advisor. ‘

Rasheen St. Juste,
constituent officer.

Phillip Harrigan, public
relations officer- *
committee coordinator

Jonee’ Edwards,
administrative
assistant, legislative
aide.

Sources: V.|. Legislature
website, www. legvi.org:
Williams’ answers to
Daily News 2006 Voter
Guide questionnaire.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018864
