him over the portrayal.) Ivanka, speaking with something like a Valley Girl accent—which
would transform in the years ahead into something like a Disney princess voice—seems
no more ambitious or even employed than anyone else, but she is notably less angry with
her parents.

She treated her father with some lightness, even irony, and in at least one television
interview she made fun of his comb-over. She often described the mechanics behind it to
friends: an absolutely clean pate—a contained island after scalp reduction surgery—
surrounded by a furry circle of hair around the sides and front, from which all ends are
drawn up to meet in the center and then swept back and secured by a stiffening spray. The
color, she would point out to comical effect, was from a product called Just for Men—the
longer it was left on, the darker it got. Impatience resulted in Trump’s orange-blond hair
color.

Father and daughter got along almost peculiarly well. She was the real mini-Trump (a
title that many people now seemed to aspire to). She accepted him. She was a helper not
just in his business dealings, but in his marital realignments. She facilitated entrances and
exits. If you have a douchebag dad, and if everyone is open about it, then maybe it
becomes fun and life a romantic comedy—sort of.

Reasonably, she ought to be much angrier. She grew up not just in the middle of a
troubled family but in one that was at all times immersed in bad press. But she was able to
bifurcate reality and live only in the uppermost part of it, where the Trump name, no
matter how often tarnished, nevertheless had come to be an affectionately tolerated
presence. She resided in a bubble of other wealthy people who thrived on their
relationship with one another—at first among private school and Upper East Side of
Manhattan friends, then among social, fashion, and media contacts. What’s more, she
tended to find protection as well as status in her boyfriends’ families, aggressively bonding
with a series of wealthy suitors’ families—including Jamie Johnson’s before the Kushners
—over her own.

The Ivanka-Jared relationship was shepherded by Wendi Murdoch, herself a curious
social example (to nobody so much as to her then husband, Rupert). The effort among a
new generation of wealthy women was to recast life as a socialite, turning a certain model
of whimsy and noblesse oblige into a new status as a power woman, a kind of postfeminist
socialite. In this, you worked at knowing other rich people, the best rich people, and of
being an integral and valuable part of a network of the rich, and of having your name itself
evoke, well ... riches. You weren’t satisfied with what you had, you wanted more. This
required quite a level of indefatigability. You were marketing a product—yourself. You
were your own start-up.

This was what her father had always done. This, more than real estate, was the family
business.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019944
