Jan Loeys Global Asset Allocation

(1-212) 834-5874 The J.P. Morgan View

jan.loeys@jpmorgan.com 28 March 2013
Equities

The global rally in equity markets slowed this week, but did not reverse, on
continued concerns about the fallout from a poorly executed Cyprus solution.
The Euro area underperformed again, for a second week in arow. As
discussed last week, we view Cyprus as a local problem that we address by
underweighting Euro area equities in a global portfolio. A potential negative
feedback loop from markets to the economy poses a serious downside risk for
Euro area growth over coming months prolonging the current run of negative
economic surprises from the region.

Japan is the region we like the most. In our mind the Japanese equity trade
has further legs not only due to prospective BoJ balance sheet expansion but
more importantly due to a reform agenda to be unveiled into the summer.

EM equities are suffering from renewed policy tightening in major EM
economies such as Brazil and China. Investors have bitter memories of
previous property tightening measures in China. As within DM, we see a lot
of divergences within EM and prefer to focus on under-owned markets with
good domestic demand story such as Mexico and Malaysia. See “Consensus
Asset Allocation”, Adrian Mowat and team, Mar 26th. Open overweights in
Mexican and Malaysia equities vs MSCI EM.

For long-term investors we just released our quarterly publication Trade
opportunities for long term investors Mar 27. We monetize risk premia in
Value stocks via a long in S&P500 Value vs S&P500 ETFs. It appears that a
five year long underperformance of Value stocks has come to an end. We take
profit on trades that monetize skew risk premia in S&P500 due to sharp
contraction over the past quarter. We continue to monetize equity risk premia
via buying high dividend yield equity ETFs against USTs. Our preference is
to buy ETFs which track the S&P US Preferred stock due to its high yield,
around 6%, and its high weight on Financials.

Credit

The news flow from the Cypriot bailout continued to push spreads wider
and vol higher this week, with European Financials underperforming as
creditor bail-in risks returned to the forefront. iTraxx senior and subordinated
financials indices widened 20bp as investors sought to hedge via CDS rather
than sell bonds. European credit continued to underperformed US credit.

The fact that Cypriot banks debt is only 1.3% of total liabilities was a key
factor in the decision to bail-in depositors. Yet events surrounding the banking
sector restructuring also suggest that keeping senior unsecured
bondholders immune from costly bail-outs is politically untenable. This
removes the implicit ‘cover’ that senior bonds holders have enjoyed and has
increased speculation that implementation of the bail-in proposals under the
EU’s Resolution & Recovery Directive (RRD) will be brought forward to
2015 from the current 2018 time-frame.

As such, our colleagues in European Credit have examined the implications of
changing recovery rate expectations across the bank capital structure.
Assuming that covered bonds remain outside the scope of the proposals, we
expect senior bank bond spreads to widen relative to covered bonds and
prefer being OW covered bonds vs senior bonds in the periphery,
particularly in Spain where covered bonds have first claim over the entire
mortgage book of the bank. From a relative value point of view, we also
suggest owning subordinated bank bonds vs senior bank bonds in the core
as, under the new RRD regime, there is a higher probability than before that

J.P Morgan

More details in ...

US Credit Markets Outlook and Strategy, Eric Beinstein
et al.

High Yield Credit Markets Weekly, Peter Acciavatti et al.

European Credit Outlook & Strategy, Steven Dulake et
al.

Emerging Markets Cross Product Strategy Weekly, Eric
Beinstein et al.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030850
