economist at the International Monetary Fund, presented a paper in 2005 warning of a “catastrophic

meltdown” and was mocked as a “Luddite” by Mr. Summers.

Meanwhile, some investment bankers — at Goldman Sachs in particular — were betting against the
positions they were pushing on their customers. An elaborate house of cards had been constructed in
which bad consumer loans were bundled into securities, which, were certified as sound by rating agencies

paid by the banks and then insured via credit-default swaps. One risky bet was stacked on top of another,

and in retrospect the collapse of the whole edifice, along with the loss of jobs, homes, pensions and

political confidence, seems inevitable.

How did this happen? Mr. Ferguson is no conspiracy theorist; nor is he inclined toward structural or
systemic explanations. Markets are not like tectonic plates, shifting on their own. Visible hands write laws
and make deals, and in this case a combination of warped values and groupthink seems to have driven
very intelligent men (and they were mostly men) toward folly. In addition to business and government,
Mr. Ferguson aims his critique at academia, suggesting that the discipline of economics and more than a
few prominent economists were corrupted by consulting fees, seats on boards of directors and

membership in the masters of the universe club.

When he challenges some of these professors, in particular those who held positions of responsibility in
the White House or in the Federal Reserve, they are reduced to stammering obfuscation — Markets are
complicated! Who could have predicted? I don’t see any conflict of interest — and occasionally provoked
to testiness. Mr. Ferguson, for his part, cannot always contain his incredulity or rein in his sarcasm.

Occasionally his voice pipes up from off camera, saying things like, “You can’t be serious!”

But it is hard to imagine a movie more serious, and more urgent, than “Inside Job.” There are a few
avenues that might have been explored more thoroughly, in particular the effects of the crisis on
ordinary, non-Wall-Street-connected workers and homeowners. The end of the film raises a disturbing
question, as Mr. Damon exhorts viewers to demand changes in the status quo so that the trends
associated with unchecked speculation of the kind that caused the last crisis — rising inequality, neglect

of productive capacity, endless cycles of boom and bust — might be reversed.

This call to arms makes you wonder why anger of the kind so eloquently expressed in “Inside Job” has
been so inchoate. And through no fault of its own, the film may leave you dispirited as well as enraged. Its
fate is likely to be that of other documentaries: praised in some quarters, nitpicked in others and

shrugged off by those who need its message most. Which is a shame.

“Inside Job” is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). Some drug and sex references and pervasive
obscenity, though not the verbal kind.

De ee ee eee ee i ee ee ee i ee a

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031828
