In re Terrorist Attacks on September 11, 2001, 392 F.Supp.2d 539 (2005)
10 A.L.R. Fed. 2d 789

[20]

[21]

[22]

Federal Civil Procedure

@ Jurisdictional discovery
Federal Courts

@ Dismissal or other disposition

District Court would deny without prejudice
purported Islamic charitable trust’s motion to
dismiss, for lack of personal jurisdiction,
complaint in action alleging provision of support
for terrorists involved in September 11th attacks,
pending further jurisdictional discovery as to
whether trust’s activities were directed at the
United States; U.S. Government had designated
the trust a Specially Designated Global Terrorist
Entity. Fed.Rules Civ.Proc.Rule 12(b)(2), 28
US.C.A.

1 Cases that cite this headnote

Federal Civil Procedure
Jurisdictional discovery

Courts enjoy great discretion in deciding
whether to order jurisdictional discovery before
resolving motions to dismiss for lack of personal
jurisdiction. Fed.Rules Civ.Proc.Rule 12(b)(2),
28 US.C.A.

1 Cases that cite this headnote

Federal Courts
@ Terrorism

Pursuant to ule establishing personal
jurisdiction in any district court for cases arising
under federal law where defendant had
sufficient contacts with the United States as a
whole but was not subject to jurisdiction in any
particular state, District Court had personal
jurisdiction, in action alleging provision of
support for terrorists involved in September 11th
attacks, over defendant alleged to be a founder
and leader of terrorist organization responsible
for the attacks; defendant had purposefully
directed his activities at the U.S. Fed.Rules

WESTLAW

[23]

[24]

Civ.Proc.Rules 4(k)(2), 12(b)(2), 28 U.S.C.A.

2 Cases that cite this headnote

Constitutional Law

Non-profit, charitable, and educational
organizations

Federal Courts

Terrorism

District Court had personal jurisdiction, under
rule establishing personal jurisdiction for cases
arising under federal law where defendant had
sufficient contacts with the United States as a
whole but was not subject to jurisdiction in any
particular state, over purported Islamic relief
organization, for purposes of action alleging
provision of support for terrorists involved in
September 11th attacks; organization
purposefully directed its activities at the U.S.,
satisfying due process minimum contacts
requirement, inasmuch as it operated in the U.S.
and was involved in supporting attacks and
activities of the terrorist organization. U.S.C.A.
Const.Amend. 5; Fed.Rules Civ.Proc.Rules
4(k)(2), 12(b)(2), 28 U.S.C.A.

Cases that cite this headnote

Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations

Association with or participation in
enterprise; control or intent

To state a claim for liability under civil
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations
Act (RICO), plaintiffs must allege that
defendants participated in the operation or
management of the enterprise itself, which
requires that these defendants must have had
some part in directing the enterprise’s affairs. 18
US.C.A. § 1962(c).

Cases that cite this headnote

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017908
