20 MICHAEL WOLFF

pursued by Trump for many years—pursued, in fact, well into the 2016
campaign—albeit never brought to fruition.

Michael Cohen, Trump's personal lawyer and a Trump Organization
officer, was another significant topic. The prosecutors asked questions
about the level of Cohen's disappointment at not being included in the
president's White House team. They seemed to be trying to gauge how
much resentment Cohen felt, which led the witness to infer that they
wanted to estimate how much leverage they might have if they attempted
to flip Michael Cohen against the president.

Zelinsky and Rhee wanted to know about Jared Kushner. And they
wanted to know about Hope Hicks.

‘The two prosecutors also delved into the president’s personal life. How
often did he cheat on his wife? With whom? How were trysts arranged?
What were the president's sexual interests? The Mueller investigation, and
its grand jury, was becoming a clearing house for the details of Trump's
long history of professional and personal perfidiousness.

When the long day was finally over, the witness left the grand jury
room shocked—not so much by what the prosecutors wanted to know
but by what they already knew.

+

By the third week of March, Trump's son-in-law had the president's full
attention. “They can not only impeach you, they can bankrupt you” was
Kushner’s message.

Agitated and angry, Trump pressed Dowd for more reassurances,
holding him accountable for the prior reassurances Trump had frequently
demanded he be given. Dowd held firm: he yet believed that the fight was
in its early stages and that Mueller was still on a fishing expedition.

But Trump's patience was finally at an end. He decided that Dowd was
a fool and should go back into the retirement from which, Trump kept
repeating, he had rescued him. Indeed, resisting that retirement, Dowd
pleaded his own case, assuring the president that he could continue to
provide him with valuable help. To no avail: on March 22, Dowd reluc-
tantly resigned, sending another bitter former Trumper into the world.

=

THE DO-OVER

he day John Dowd was fired, Steve Bannon was sitting at his dinin;

room table trying to forestall another threat to the Trump pres
dency. This one wasn't about a relentless prosecutor but rather a betraye
base. It was about the Wall that wasn't.

The town houses on Capitol Hill, middle-class remnants of the nin
teenth century, are cramped up-and-down affairs of modest parlor floo:
nook-y sitting rooms, and small bedrooms. Many serve as headquarte
for causes and organizations that can’t afford Washington's vast amou
of standard-issue office real estate. Some double as housing for th:
organization's leaders. Many represent amateur efforts or eccentric pt
suits, often a kind of shrine to hopes and dreams and revolutions yet
occur. The “Embassy” on A Street—a house built in 1890 and the form
location of Bannon’s Breitbart News—was where Bannon had lived a
worked since his exile from the White House in August 2017. It was p
frat house, part man cave, and part pseudo-military redoubt; conspiré
literature was scattered about. Various grave and underemployed you
men, would-be militia members, loitered on the steps.

The Embassy’s creepiness and dark heart were in quite stark contr
to Bannon’s expansive and merry countenance. He might be in exile fr
the Trump White House, but it was an ebullient banishment, coffee-fue

or otherwise.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021134
