bathtub or feeling the seductively diaphragmatically oscillating belly of a taxi dancer.
Pianists with speed problems worked at specially constructed up-side-down
keyboards with the rationale being that finger lifting was more rate limiting than
finger placing. He said that his most hopeless cases were those whose
personalities didn’t fit their choices of instrument, too often made by what position
remained open in the high school band rather than following a personal interview.
He claimed that trombonists should be sensually languorous; clarinetists, nervously
impatient; double reed instrument players, obsessional and withdrawn; brass

players, athletic and exhibitionistic.

As one of the team physicians of the San Diego Chargers in the years 1971-
1975, | spent several days a week in their summer training camps, on the team
plane to and from games, in the locker room and on the sidelines during games. |
was involved particularly in player drafts. Unbeknown to candidate players and
other teams, we used a system of what social scientists call unobtrusive measures
of their personalities as part of their evaluations. College football players are sent
questionnaires each year by professional teams asking about a variety of life events
and attitudes including their goals for the future. Filled out by hand, they served as
repeated measure, handwriting samples. Twenty years of them were available in
the Charger’s record room. Using 30 standard signs from the French graphology
literature and three trained raters, we evaluated the hand writing characteristics of
players, National Football League wide, who obtained and retained playing, not
reserve, positions in the League for at least three years.

After studying handwriting profiles from close to a thousand established NFL
players, and hundreds of hours of individual interviews of members of many teams,
it became clear that, athletic abilities being equal, success was more likely when the
player's personality type fit his football position. What amounts to a series of
selective filters are operated by coaches, scouts and managers throughout the

playing careers of these players in grammar schools, high schools, universities and,

38

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013538
