Tax and Accounting Center http://taxandaccounting.bna.com/btac/display/batch_print_display.adp

In a Feb. 25 article written for the Wall Street Journal, Camp said the proposal “can clean up provisions
like ‘carried interest’ that allow certain private-equity firms to get the investment-income tax rate on
what anyone else would call normal wage income.”

Benchmark for Future Bills?

The carried-interest proposal comes on top of a Camp plan to impose a tax on the assets of the largest
U.S. banks and insurers. Even though his plan faces long odds in Congress this year, the proposal will
become a benchmark for tax policy.

Under current law, carried interest, or the profits share received by private equity managers, gets
treated as capital gains, with a top basic rate of 20 percent as opposed to the ordinary income rate of
39.6 percent.

Obama and other Democrats have been trying since 2007 to change that law with little success. Camp is
wrapping a change to carried interest inside a reconstruction of the tax code that would lower tax rates
and broaden the tax base.

Steve judge, president and chief executive officer of the Private Equity Growth Capital Council, an
industry trade group, said Camp's proposal was “disappointing.”

“Key policy makers from both parties have already made clear that the discussion around this draft
proposal will be brief,” Judge said in a statement Feb. 25. “Nevertheless, Chairman Camp's proposal
penalizes long-term capital investment, which he and other members of the House Ways and Means
Committee have purported to support.”

With assistance from Richard Rubin in Washington.
To contact the reporter: Brett Ferguson in Washington at bferguson@bna.com
To contact the editor responsible for this story: Cheryl Saenz at csaenz@bna.com

Texts of the discussion draft and the section-by-section summary are in TaxCore.

Contact us at http://www.bna.com/contact/index.html or call 1-800-372-1033
ISSN 1947-3923

Copyright © 2014, The Bureau of National Affairs, Inc. Reproduction or redistribution, in whole or in part, and
in any form, without express written permission, is prohibited except as permitted by the BNA Copyright Policy.

2 of 2 2/27/2014 9:00 AM
HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026544
