eden, mitvine a, as

Date: 7/13/06 PALM BEACH POLICE DEPARTMENT Page:
Time: 9:27:55 Incident Report Program: CMS301L

Case No. .. . : 1-05-000368 (Continued)
three years old when she met Epstein, anything that happened was
between two consenting adults. I explained to her that she was not in
any trouble however as part of this investigation, I needed to ask
certain questions. [stated that there were times that Epstein
would ask her to perform during the massage. He would instruct her to
rub his nipples as he masturbated himself. [RRR stated she felt
grossed about the behavior but as she was getting paid, she just
continued. [ERBJ also advised she would on occasion perform the
massages naked. Epstein would on occasion, utilize the
vibrator/massager on her vagina area when she performed the massages.

explained that Epstein never exposed himself to her as he

Maintained himself covered under the towel he would be wearing. When

Epstein would masturbate he would be covered.

I asked if ever received any gifts, or any gratuities from
Epstein. advised aside from being paid well, she advised
Epstein took care of her tuition from Palm Beach Atlantic College.
She received a rental car for a week when her scooter broke down.

Additionally she received other gifts from Epstein. Epstein also
recommended her to another client who resides at Breakers Row in Palm
‘Beach. The client she was referred to was Glenn unknown last name,
and his wife, who she provided a massages to. The statement was
concluded and placed into evidence upon our return to the Palm Beach
Police Department.

While at the police station, I researched Florida tagL__—sd| which
was also previously seen on the property when there was physical

surveill e being done at the property. The vehicle is registered to
Florida. _Researchin and the b6
vehicle revealed that his: daughter, b7C

in Lake Clark Shores.
The vehicle is a tan, Chevrolet Camaro, T researched id

date of birth,—> —] resides at. in
has a my space page called
ea Pe courap . In her web page, shows various photos of

photographed at a beach. An interview is forthcoming.

A review of the video disks which was extracted at the Palm Beach
County Sheriff's Office Computer Crime Unit revealed that only one
hidden camera was functional at the time. Several images of Epstein
working at his office were seen. Additional footage of i”
and NS was seen. There was other footage of females
seen. The identity of the females is unknown at this time, until such
time as I meet with certain females to show the video footage to
confirm if, in fact, it is them on the video. At this time it appears
that and BE axe seen sitting with Epstein beside
his desk in the evening hours. Due to poor lighting, a direct
confirmation cannot be made at this time.

Inv. Continues.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019029
