4.2.12
WC: 191694

club members lived across the street from the school, and so we would go to school wearing
normal approved clothes, then immediately upon leaving school go to our friend’s house and
change into our costumes. We felt like super heroes, but I was no longer jumping out of
windows.

Boro Park in the 1940s and 50s was not only a religious neighborhood; it was a funny
neighborhood. Two houses away from me lived Jackie Mason. Around the corner was Eliot
Gould (ne Goldstein). A few blocks away, in my uncle’s building, lived Buddy Hackett. Woody
Allen grew up in a nearby neighborhood, as did Larry David.

Joke telling among my friends was a competitive sport. (In those days there were new jokes
because our parents and grandparents didn’t tell jokes—at least not to us kids, but older brothers
were a good source.) We didn’t know anybody who actually made up a joke. Every rendition
would begin with, “I heard a good joke,” or “have you heard the one about—the rabbi and the
farmer’s daughter, or the rabbi, the priest and the minister?” (The rabbi always came out on top!)

The first joke I remember hearing (and telling) involved a put-down of communist Russia. It was
about the time the Russians wanted to one-up the Americans by ordering a large number of
condoms 14 inches long. The Americans sent them the 14 inch condoms—marked “medium.”
The jokes improved as we got older!

Our favorite radio show was “Can you top this,” which involved professional comics who would
try to top each other and listeners who submitted jokes. A “laugh meter” determined whose joke
was funniest. There were cash prizes for listeners who topped the pros. The jokes told by
panelists, such as Harry Hershfield and Joe Laurie, Jr., had to be spontaneous and related to the
subject of the original joke. The panelists boasted that they knew 15,000 jokes among them.

We would sit around the radio and try to top the pros. We would also send in our own jokes,
which were never chosen. But we often thought our jokes were as good or better than theirs.

Living in a funny neighborhood at a funny time and listening to funny shows served me well. (My
wife thinks too well, since I often use humor to avoid discussing serious issues.) I use humor in
the courtroom, in the classroom and in every other aspect of my life. A highlight of my current
summers is sitting on the porch of the Chilmark store on Martha’s Vineyard and playing a
contemporary version of “Can you top this?” with my friend Harold Ramis, who knows more than
15,000 Jewish jokes! Sometimes Larry David, Ted Danson, Seth Myers or Tony Shalub drop by.
I never “top” Harold, but I hold my own.

I learned many of my jokes in the Catskill Mountains where I worked as a busboy over the Jewish
holidays. The only hotel that would hire me was the King David. It was a run-down place that
conveniently burned to the ground right after the Jewish holidays. It was across the road from
The Posh Brown’s, made famous by Jerry Lewis, who frequently performed there. Nearby were
Grossingers, Concord, Kutchers, President, Nevelle, Tamarak, Pine View and Pioneer. I played
and watched basketball, played “Simon Says” with Lou Goldstein, who claimed to have invented
the game, and snuck into the shows that featured Alan King, Freddie Roman, Sheky Green and
Red Burrons. It was “Can you top this?” on steroids. Plus, there were girls.

28

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017115
