managed accounts depending on the unique objectives of each client and is serviced through distinct legal entities licensed for specific activities. Bank, trust and
investment management services are provided by J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A, and its affiliates. Securities are offered through J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (JPMS),
Member NYSE, FINRA and SIPC. Securities products purchased or sold through JPMS are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC); are
not deposits or other obligations of its bank or thrift affiliates and are not guaranteed by its bank or thrift affiliates; and are subject to investment risks, including
possible loss of the principal invested. Not all investment ideas referenced are suitable for all investors. Speak with your J.P. Morgan Representative concerning your
personal situation. This material is not intended as an offer or solicitation for the purchase or sale of any financial instrument. Private Investments may engage in
leveraging and other speculative practices that may increase the risk of investment loss, can be highly illiquid, are not required to provide periodic pricing or
valuations to investors and may involve complex tax structures and delays in distributing important tax information. Typically such investment ideas can only be offered
to suitable investors through a confidential offering memorandum which fully describes all terms, conditions, and risks.

IRS Circular 230 Disclosure: JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its affiliates do not provide tax advice. Accordingly, any discussion of U.S. tax matters contained herein
(including any attachments) is not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, in connection with the promotion, marketing or recommendation by anyone
unaffiliated with JPMorgan Chase & Co. of any of the matters addressed herein or for the purpose of avoiding U.S. tax-related penalties. Note that J.P. Morgan is not
a licensed insurance provider.

© 2012 JPMorgan Chase & Co; All rights reserved

This email is confidential and subject to important disclaimers and conditions including on offers for the
purchase or sale of securities, accuracy and completeness of information, viruses, confidentiality, legal
privilege, and legal entity disclaimers, available at http://www.jpmorgan.com/pages/disclosures/email.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031151
