818

5-7. He has never supported any person
or organization that he has known to par-
ticipate in any terrorist attacks. Jd. 19.
Mr. Al-Husani submits that Plaintiffs can-
not cure the lack of allegations in the
complaint in its motion papers. Wright v.
Ernst & Young, LLP, 152 F.3d 169, 178
(2d Cir.1998) (explaining a party is not
permitted to amend its complaint through
allegations made in motion papers).

Mr. Al-Husani also claims that he was
not properly served because The Interna-
tional Herald Tribune has a circulation of
only 199 in Saudi Arabia and is published
in English, and Al Quds Al Arabia is a
London-based paper banned in the King-
dom. Even if service was proper, howev-
er, Mr. Al-Husani submits this Court does
not have personal jurisdiction over him.

The Burnett Plaintiffs claim that Mr.
Al-Husani is also implicated by the “Gold-
en Chain,” and thus an early supporter of
al Qaeda. Plaintiffs’ Opp. to Al-Husani
Motion to Dismiss at 10; Bierstein Aff. at
Ex. 2 (document listing “Hamad Al Husai-
ni,” without indicating when list was writ-
ten, by whom, or for what purpose). The
Plaintiffs place great weight on the United
States’ inclusion of the “Golden Chain” in
its proffer of evidence in United States v.
Arnaout, the government’s case against an
executive of Defendant charity BIF. See
Bierstein Aff. at Ex. 1 (proffer). The
court presiding over that case, however,
ruled that the document was inadmissible
hearsay. United States v. Arnaout, No.
02 Cr. 892, 2008 WL 255226, at *1-2
(N.D.IIL Feb. 4, 2003). Nevertheless, by
supporting al Qaeda, Plaintiffs assert Mr.
Al-Husani purposefully directed his activi-
ties toward the United States, making the
exercise of personal jurisdiction appropri-
ate. See, eg. Bierstein Aff. Exs. 9-15
(detailing al Qaeda’s hatred for and actions
against the United States). Additionally,
Plaintiffs claim that one of Mr. Al-Husa-

349 FEDERAL SUPPLEMENT, 2d SERIES

ni’s companies is a supporter of Al-Waqf
al-Islami Foundation, a Dutch entity whose
seminars “have drilled extremist messages
into the heads of thousands of young Mus-
lims.” “Radical Foundation: In ‘Law’
Seminars, A Saudi Group Spreads Ex-
tremism,” Wall St. J., Apr. 15, 2003, at
Bierstein Aff. Ex. 6.

[64] Plaintiffs have not established a
prima facie showing of jurisdiction over
Mr. Al-Husani to survive his motion to
dismiss or warrant jurisdictional discovery.
The “Golden Chain” does not say what the
Plaintiffs argue it says. It is only a list of
names found in a charity’s office. It does
not establish Mr. Aljomaih’s involvement
in a terrorist conspiracy culminating in the
September 11 attacks and it does not dem-
onstrate that he purposefully directed his
activities at the United States. According-
ly, Mr. Al-Husani’s motion to dismiss the
Burnett complaint against him is granted.

6. NCB

The Court outlined the Ashton and Bur-
nett Plaintiffs’ claims against NCB in Part
I.B.4. For purposes of the personal juris-
diction analysis, the Court will assume at
this point that the FSIA does not provide
for subject matter and personal jurisdic-
tion over NCB. Accordingly, the Plaintiffs
will have to make a prima facie showing to
survive NCB’s motion to dismiss. In that
vein, Plaintiffs argue that NCB purpose-
fully directed its activities at the United
States and participated in a conspiracy
that culminated in the attacks of Septem-
ber 11.

Plaintiffs submit NCB has many con-
tacts with the United States, including a
wholly-owned subsidiary in New York City
through which it operates an international
banking business. See, e.g., Aff. of John
Fawcett in Support of Ashton Plaintiffs’
Opp. to NCB’s Motion to Dismiss (herein-
after “Fawcett Aff.”) 13, Exs. 2 & 3. NCB

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017883
