e - Find a parking slot for your car in some other city even before you
make the trip.

e » Ordered garbage bins for home.

e > Get an authenticated weather forecast and weather report for a
particular time in a particular place on a particular day, five years
ago. This was to be used as supportive evidence for a lawsuit.

e > Talking to parents in our client’s stead.

Here’s another real example of personal outsourcing from reader David Cross, who got a personal chef
at home for less than $5 per meal. Just thinking of the possibilities is enough to make you start drooling.
He explains:

I wanted to find someone to prepare food I love. I trained as a chef but I am often so busy and as I am
the only one in the house who really cooks, I often don’t have time to prepare the food that makes me
feel the healthiest so I wrote the attached ad and dropped it on Craigslist.

This was a very tight focus—ultraspecific—I had just two applicants in two months—one who was a
2/10 match but the guy we just OK’d was a Hare Krishna follower for many years, lived in India, and his
sample menu proved he knew what he’s doing so we just started him.

The food is absolutely awesome. The hourly rate is *extremely reasonable,* he’s a five-minute detour
when either of us are in town to collect food and I now have delicious Indian food for less than $5 a
meal and it’s as good as anything I’ve ever eaten anywhere.

I’m going to progress to other cuisines now... Thai, Italian, Chinese, etc., and it means when I do have
time to cook [ll enjoy doing it that much more as I am not the only one cooking!

Indian/Asian Vegetarian Cook Needed

Date: 2007-06-07, 12:25PM PDT
Hello.

We are a local, international family who love Indian and Asian vegetarian food. We are looking for a
cook experienced in this wonderful cuisine to prepare delicious, fresh, healthy, authentic Indian/Asian
vegetarian meals for us.

If you’ve cooked a curry once or twice or need to follow recipes, this position is probably not for you,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013879
