157

But it also means that French state television of the 1960s often aired views favorable
to the Cultural Revolution, while Maoism was influential inside the radical Left.
French diplomacy also has had its “China school,” with leading figures such as Etienne
Manach (a historical Gaullist) and Claude Martin (who recently published his memoirs
under a title lifted creatively from a saying by Chairman Mao, “La diplomatie n’est pas
un diner de gala” or “Diplomacy is not a dinner party”).

Still, the shift in public opinion has been equally notable. Simon Leys wrote in French
and spawned a critical tradition inside French sinology. The 1989 Tiananmen Square
crackdown and a demonstration condoned by the French government on the eve of the
G-7 Versailles Summit created a lasting row with the PRC (to which arms sales to Taiwan
in the early 1990s can be traced). President Nicolas Sarkozy’s stand on Tibet around the
2008 Olympics kindled an even more severe controversy with China, one which also left
a trace inside French officialdom. Although diplomatic relations would be normalized

in ensuing years, this marked the beginning of a rebalancing of France’s foreign policy
in Asia. Today, France is a leading arms provider to Australia, Malaysia, Vietnam, India,
Singapore, and—to a lesser degree—Japan. It is the leading country—and one of only
two EU countries—participating in freedom of navigation naval operations in the South
China Sea, albeit with more limited objectives than the United States. It has also taken
the lead, with Germany and Italy, in calling for investment screening by the EU, a move
that clearly targets Chinese attempts to obtain European high technology.

Diaspora

The Chinese diaspora in France is the largest in Europe, estimated to be between
six hundred thousand and one million. Exact figures are not known as ethnic or
religious censuses are banned in France. The diaspora is not only large but diverse,
including Hoa refugees from Indochina arriving in the late 1970s, Wenzhou
immigrants, Dongbei workers, and, more recently, students and affluent Chinese.
Wenzhou immigrants are notably apolitical, while Dongbei (northeast) people are
closer to PRC traditions. Very few influential French of Chinese origins come from
either of these two groups.

The PRC embassy in Paris and consulates in Marseilles and Strasbourg have increased
China’s outreach to the various Chinese communities in recent years. Notably, actions
were taken to encouraging and mobilizing counterdemonstrations (largely from the
student community) in Paris during the 2008 Olympics row and by exploiting the issue
of crime against Asians (tourists or residents). In 2016, the death of a Chinese resident
at the hands of the police spawned a very sudden and publicly condoned reaction

in China itself, an echo and perhaps a reminder of the 2008 Olympics row. The PRC
also has consulates in French Polynesia and on Reunion Island, with activities more
directed to communities of Chinese origin that reside there.

Appendix 2

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020616
