—CHARLES ATLAS, strongman who sold more than $30 million worth of “dynamic-tension”
muscle courses through comic books

L, approaching large resellers or potential partners, small company size will be an obstacle. This

discrimination is often as insurmountable as it is unfounded. Fortunately, a few simple steps can
dramatically upgrade your budding Fortune 500 image and take your muse from coffee shop to
boardroom in 45 minutes or less.

1. Don’t be the CEO or founder.

Being the “CEO” or “Founder” screams start-up. Give yourself the mid-level title of “vice president”
(VP), “director,” or something similar that can be added to depending on the occasion (Director of
Sales, Director of Business Development, etc.). For negotiation purposes as well, remember that it is
best not to appear to be the ultimate decision-maker.

2. Put multiple e-mail and phone contacts on the website.

Put various e-mail addresses on the “contact us” page for different departments, such as “human
resources,” “sales,” “general inquiries,’ “wholesale distribution,’ “media/PR,” “investors,” “web
comments,” “order status,” and so on. In the beginning, these will all forward to your e-mail address.
In Phase III, most will forward to the appropriate outsourcers. Multiple toll-free numbers can be used
in the same fashion.

oF ee 39 oe

3. Set up an Interactive Voice Response (IVR) remote receptionist.

It is possible to sound like a blue chip for less than $30. In fewer than ten minutes on a site such as
www.angel.com, which boasts clients such as Reebok and Kellog’s, it is possible to set up an 800
number that greets callers with a voice prompt such as, “Thank you for calling [business name].
Please say the name of the person or department you would like to reach or just hold on for a list of
options.”

Upon speaking your name or selecting the appropriate department, the caller is forwarded to your
preferred phone or the appropriate outsourcer—with on-hold music and all.

4. Do not provide home addresses.

Do not use your home address or you will get visitors. Prior to securing an end-to-end fulfillment
house that can handle checks and money orders—if you decide to accept them—use a post office box
but leave out the “PO Box” and include the street address of the post office itself. Thus “PO Box 555,
Nowhere, US 11936” becomes “Suite 555, 1234 Downtown Ave., US 11936.”

Go forth and project professionalism with a well-designed image. Perceived size does matter.

=> COMFORT CHALLENGE

Relax in Public (2 days)

This is the last Comfort Challenge, placed prior to the chapter that tackles the most uncomfortable
turning point for most office dwellers: negotiating remote work agreements. This challenge is intended to

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013931
