4/8/2019 Case 1:19-cv-0337 7Prqb Beene tal el Hour aRey $641 Fw-PAge 3 of 4
The fact that he was giving money didn’t hurt. We went to events that he was involved in
but none of us suspected that he had another side until later. Jeffrey loved academics.
My conversations with him were only about academic subjects. We never discussed

females or our social life.
Did your relationship change with Epstein when you took him on as a client?

Virtually all my social contact with him was of an academic nature, and it was prior to the
time he was indicted. My relationship with him was entirely professional. It is a total bum
rap to say that | “cavorted” with him or was “chummy” with him. | teach my students

never, never get too close to clients—and certainly don’t do anything improper with them.

The suit says that Jane Doe No. 3 was forced to have sex with you, Prince Andrew
and “many other powerful men,” including unnamed politicians, foreign presidents
and world leaders. Why were you and the Prince singled out by name?

They want to void the plea agreement and needed to find a lawyer who knew Epstein
before [the indictment], and had been on his island, his home in New Mexico, Palm
Beach. | fit the bill. It was lawyer profiling.

And the Prince?

They claimed that Prince Andrew was using his influence to get Epstein a better deal with
the government. What's more laughable than suggesting that the U.S. Attorney would
listen to the Prince to go easy on Epstein!

Why bother responding if you think the allegations are so outrageous? Why not

just let the facts come out during the legal process?

| have to respond to everything. That’s the way | am. Imagine having an unblemished
personal life then reading graffiti scrawled on the bathroom door that gets picked up in

every paper based on the assertions of a woman who’s a serial liar.

Brad Edwards, one of the lawyers bringing this suit, has a history of legal
entanglement with Epstein, as does his former partner Scott Rothstein, who’s now
in prison for his role in a Ponzi scheme. But the other lawyer in this case, Paul

Cassell, is a former federal judge and a law professor. Why is he getting involved?

Everyone is shocked that he would be part of this. | think he’s always hated me because
I’m his opposite. I’m the conventional liberal he hates: I’m against the death penalty, |’m

pro abortion rights, pro gun control.
Seems risky to bring a lawsuit for just ideological differences.

No one can understand Cassell’s motive. Either he will be disbarred or | will be. And if |

knowingly had sex with a sex slave then | would deserve disbarment.

What about the reaction? Do you feel you’ve been treated fairly by the press and
the public?

I’ve been treated particularly harshly by lawyers and law professors. They are so quick to
say that | might be guilty. They’re getting too much pleasure out of this. There’s a dose of
schadenfreude.

Why do you think people like getting you upset?

I’m controversial and more famous than they are. There’s a lot of jealousy.
https:/Awww.law.com/alm|D/1202715316005/Prof-Dershowitz-Tell-Me-How-You-Really-Feel/?slreturn=201 90308174659 2/3

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018024
