Fittuy Ricu

Q: Can you tell us why?

A: Well, I felt the handling —and just continued to feel that the
way the state attorney’s office handled this case was extremely
unusual. I knew that Mr. Krischer was making decisions
about this case. I felt that his objectivity was lacking, and I
felt that the appropriate way, after reading the statute that

CHAPTER A5 governed the assignment of cases to other circuits—I felt

that his action met the standard. I used some of the words

4 q from the statute in here. And I attempted to call him, and he

: wouldn't return my phone calls.
i The detective attempted to contact—his contact in the
7 4 state attorney’s office, Lanna Belohlavek, however you pro-

Michael Reiter in B.B. vs. 4 4 nounce that...and she wouldn’t return his calls. So I wrote

rainst J effrey Epstein: e. the letter in hope that he would think about his situation and

realize that his objectivity was insufficient to prosecute the
case and ask the governor to appoint someone else. And I felt
like that was necessary for a fair prosecution of our case that

a letter to state attorney Barry a 4 had been submitted to him.
a what we'll mark as exhibit 3. Let 7 ' Q Could you tell us, explain to us, why you felt that his objec-
ad through this letter again to help — 4g j tivity may be lacking in regards to this prosecution...? In

other words, what evidence did you see here, uncover, that
you felt made it potentially nonobjective?

1006, I'm assuming based on what 3 | A: Well... when | first told him about the case, and I realized

u had had some conversations with — that it was a serious case, [that] there were multiple victims,

by phone—correct? —prior to this” [and] that the suspect was very well known, I told him about
Y j _ it. And we were— it was in person. I talked to him after a
a _ Meeting that he and I were both involved in. And I had

rson and by phone.
known him to be a victim advocate and to protect the rights

| May—May 1, 2006—you felt the

is that correct?

| of children. Well, I know that he even wrote a portion of the
_ Statute that addresses those issues. And when I told him

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010514
