Adrien Morin

May 18, 2014 -- The crisis in Syria erupted early in 2011 as part of the
Arab Spring and worsened as the year went on. A first draft resolution to
intervene in Syria was proposed by France, Germany, Portugal and the
U.K., on October 4. This proposal was vetoed by Russia and China,
marking the start of a long diplomatic impasse with Moscow and Bejing
on one side and the Western powers on the other. China and Russia would
later veto two more draft UN resolutions. Three years after the clashes in
Syria began, and with the civil war now being supplanted in media
headlines, it is worth reviewing Chinese policy. Has Beijing purposefully
been more assertive toward Western powers, and the U.S. in particular?

Western Concerns

Chinese foreign policy worries the West on a number of fronts. One
concern is the formation of a “united front” of China and Russia, to
oppose Western goals. Certainly, China and Russia have together vetoed
draft resolutions supported by the three other permanent members of the
Security Council. The world has meanwhile witnessed China’s impressive
rise in recent decades as well as Russia’s attempts to return to Great Power
status. Perhaps an anti-Western alliance of those two actors could indeed
challenge the U.S. and its allies. In the meantime, the West finds itself
frustrated by Chinese foreign policy pragmatism, or as the critics would
have it, the absence of values. This is de facto incompatible with Western
moral ideals, which invoke human rights or other ethical arguments.
Chinese realpolitik is seen as amoral, if not immoral. Chinese policy is
also not up for domestic debate — a lack of transparency and little civic
engagement make sure of that. Those who fear that Chinese foreign
policy is driven by the intent of challenging (and eventually supplanting)
the West would view Beijing’s support for the Syrian regime as
ideological. This concern rises as China becomes more popular in the
Middle East. Mostafa Kamel, a member of the Egyptian Foreign Ministry,
“expressed admiration for China’s position and proposition on the Syrian
issue and said that Egypt is willing to strengthen communications and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031586
