has a big mouth.-- wasn't there a science person or someone that worked with consuelo that you thought
intersting?

On Sat, Apr 2, 2011 at 10:40 PM, Boris Niki (i i ii i wrote:

I will email Steve and Lawerence.
Iam curious what you think about Vanity fair piece?

How the daily beast knows about that dinner with woody allen and the crew?

Who would know that? Some of your employees?
B

From: Jeffrey Epstein [mailto:jeevacation@gmail.com]
Sent: Saturday, April 02, 2011 6:09 PM

To: Boris Nikolic

Subject:

in paris,, emailed steve - no response yet,, you wanted me to meet someone here, I forgot who. . may 2 will be
aneye opener . I read the vanity fair piece. .
http://www.thedailybeast.com/blogs-and-stories/2011-04-01/bill-clinton-katie-couric-woody-allen-jeffrey-

epsteins-society-friends-close-ranks/2/

BS Df IS IC DIS Ik 24S BIS DIR 3S ig DIS IC 24C BIS DIS 34S 2g DIS Ik OIC BIS DIS SIC Dk DIC ig 24S BIS 2fS BIC 2k DIS ik 34S IS OIC SIS DC DIS ik 34K iS OIC 51S 2 OIC ik OIC Dg 2Ie 2s 2c 2s 2k 2fe 2 2k is

The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of

Jeffrey Epstein

Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited
and may be unlawful. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and
destroy this communication and all copies thereof,
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved

Do ee ee oe ee ee ee ee i i ee ie

The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of

Jeffrey Epstein

Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030893
