he’s... well, nobody knows what.

For a period, one part of his activities he says is recovering monies for
countries looted by exiled dictators or military strongmen. If early in his career he
might seem like a sort of George Peppard (there’s a physical resemblance) in
Breakfast at Tiffany’s, a charming hustler, later he’s George Peppard in Banacek, a
smart and astute operator.

Then, in his version, he’s representing a series of vastly wealthy people and
families. He’s not just doing their bidding or their investing, he’s helping them to
navigate the potententials of their wealth. They’ ve satisfied their business dreams.
Now there are the separate challenges and possibilities .

In essence, as Epstein becomes more of a public figure the response to this
description of his livelihood, is, in the media and in high social circles, “bullshit.”
True, however , there is no clear alternate narrative. No one is accusing him of
anything, accept, sometimes, guilt by association. (In addition to Robert Maxwell,
who will be accused of fraud, there’s Steven Hoffenberg, briefly a New York high
flyer, who went to jail for a Ponzi scheme, for whom Epstein acted as a
consultant—along with, he points out, Paul Volcker.) But the characterization
persist: if it’s not clear, it must be murky. Sure, Goldman Sachs partners and tech
geniuses, they might have stratospheric wealth, but what to make of a Coney
Island, Zelig-like no-namer?

In 1994, just at the moment when Prince Charles is on television
acknowledging his love for Camilla Parker Bowles, Jeffrey Epstein is sitting with
his arm around Princess Diana at a dinner at the Serpentine Galley in London
(Diana is wearing her “revenge” dress that evening). Graydon Carter, into his
second years as editor of Vanity Fair, is also at the dinner. Epstein’s rise and
Carter’s rise are not, with a little critical interpretation, that different. Both are a
function of the age of new money, both are helped by strategic relationships with
the exceptionally wealthy (1.e. they are social climbers), both men have made
themselves up. To say that Epstein, in the company of the Princess, sticks in
Carter’s craw would be a big understatement. Epstein becomes one of the “what do
you know about him” figures in Carter’s gossip trail—a story waiting to happen. A
variety of the gossip that begins to circulate about Epstein—for instance, that he
secretly films his guests—is seeded by Carter, who once advised me not to go to
Epstein’s house or accept a ride in his car least I risk being blackmail. (“For
what?” I asked Carter. “You can’t even begin to imagine,” said Carter.)

Epstein is playing a cat and mouse game with his own growing wealth and
influence. He is private and secretive, but grandly so. He joins the board of
Rockefeller University. He’s suddenly on the Trilateral commission, that cabal of
business people who fancy themselves, and who are fancied by conspiracy buffs,
as running the world. He buys from his client Limited Founder Les Wexner the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022855
