The lack of economic support from donor nations and the restrictions that
impede the Palestinian economy from functioning at anywhere near its full
potential have also made for a deadly cocktail for Abbas’ Palestinian
Authority. Combined with the occasional holding of Palestinian tax
revenue by the Israelis, the PA is finding it incredibly difficult to pay the
tens of thousands of employees on its payroll.

The recent Israeli parliamentary elections perhaps best illustrate where the
Palestinian issue is today: at the bottom of the barrel. Israeli politicians
chose to focus their campaigning on social and economic issues, from the
price of housing and cost of living to whether religious students should be
drafted into the Israeli military like everyone else. The only Israeli
candidate who spoke about the need to reengage the Palestinians in peace
talks was the former foreign minister Tzipi Livni, whose party failed to
reach double-digits in the incoming parliament.

The overall message is depressingly familiar to Palestinians: creating a
Palestinian state in the West Bank, Gaza Strip, and East Jerusalem is
simply not on the list of priorities for Israel at the current time. And the
Palestinian Authority is proving itself to be an increasingly fragile
governing body without the constant generosity of foreign countries; it’s
an institution that cannot adequately care for its people, let alone its
employees who go months without pay. The average Palestinian is losing
hope that peace is possible in his or her lifetime. Palestinian leaders may
speak of ending the occupation, but for those who live under it, the
occupation 1s so ingrained that escaping it has become a violation of the
normal.

Some may take the more militant attitudes of Palestinians as confirmation
that Israel does not have a partner for peace. Yet those attitudes can also
be viewed differently: without a renewed effort at peacemaking, however
frustrating and difficult it will be, the conflict will reach a nadir where
searching for a peace partner will be irrelevant.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018222
