Escape Artist | 87

anonymous source in Hong Kong for Gibson. Greenwald accepted
her terms. Poitras, who would be accompanying them, would be
paying her own way.

In case The Guardian failed to publish the story, Snowden had a
contingency plan in place. While Greenwald was negotiating with
Gibson, Snowden arranged for Micah Lee, Poitras’s associate at the
Freedom of the Press Foundation, to build a personal website for
him. Writing to Lee from Hong Kong, first under his alias Anon108
and later under his real name, Snowden said that he planned to post
his “anti-surveillance manifesto.” He would also use it to post “a
global petition against surveillance.” Snowden had Lee name the site
“SupportOnlineRights.com.” According to Lee, the website would
be built with a “dead man’s switch,” which would automatically
trigger the release of NSA documents if Snowden was arrested. It
was not clear whether Lee was doing this work as a freelancer or in
his capacity as the chief technology officer for the Freedom of the
Press Foundation. The website Lee built for Snowden proved unnec-
essary when Poitras e-mailed him on June 1 that The Guardian had

© approved the trip and she and Greenwald were booked on a Cathay ®
Pacific flight to Hong Kong. They would arrive the next day.

In his preparation to go public in Hong Kong, Snowden showed
himself fully capable of orchestrating what would become a major
news story. He not only picked the journalists who would break
it but also instructed each of them as to the timing, sequence, and
content of their initial disclosures. In the security of his unknown
residence in Hong Kong, he also worked to carefully separate the
purloined NSA documents into two very different caches. “I care-
fully evaluated every single document I disclosed,” Snowden
explained to the Guardian journalists in early June. The documents
in this first cache were selected to serve what he termed the “pub-
lic interest.” In the hands of journalists, these selected documents,
and the story he fashioned to accompany them, would burnish his
image in the public consciousness as a whistle-blower. He did not
turn over the second cache, telling Greenwald, “There are all sorts
of documents that would have made a big impact that I didn’t turn
over.”

By the time he received the message from Poitras, Snowden had

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 87 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019575
