21

BANNON AND SCARAMUCCI

annon’s apartment in Arlington, Virginia, a fifteen-minute drive from downtown

Washington, was called the “safe house.” This seemed somehow to acknowledge his
transience and to nod, with whatever irony, to the underground and even romantic nature
of his politics—the roguish and joie de guerre alt-right. Bannon had decamped here from
the Breitbart Embassy on A Street on Capitol Hill. It was a one-bedroom graduate-student
sort of apartment, in a mixed-use building over a mega-McDonald’s—quite belying
Bannon’s rumored fortune—with five or six hundred books (emphasis on popular history)
stacked against the wall without benefit of shelving. His lieutenant, Alexandra Preate, also
lived in the building, as did the American lawyer for Nigel Farage, the right-wing British
Brexit leader who was part of the greater Breitbart circle.

On the evening on Thursday, July 20, the day after the contentious meeting about
Afghanistan, Bannon was hosting a small dinner—organized by Preate, with Chinese
takeout. Bannon was in an expansive, almost celebratory, mood. Still, Bannon knew, just
when you felt on top of the world in the Trump administration, you could probably count
on getting cut down. That was the pattern and price of one-man leadership—insecure-man
leadership. The other biggest guy in the room always had to be reduced in size.

Many around him felt Bannon was going into another bad cycle. In his first run around
the track, he’d been punished by the president for his 7ime magazine cover and for the
Saturday Night Live portrayal of “President Bannon’—that cruelest of digs to Trump.
Now there was a new book, The Devil's Bargain, and it claimed, often in Bannon’s own
words, that Trump could not have done it without him. The president was again greatly
peeved.

Still, Bannon seemed to feel he had broken through. Whatever happened, he had
clarity. It was such a mess inside in the White House that, if nothing else, this clarity
would put him on top. His agenda was front and center, and his enemies sidelined. Jared
and Ivanka were getting blown up every day and were now wholly preoccupied with
protecting themselves. Dina Powell was looking for another job. McMaster had screwed
himself on Afghanistan. Gary Cohn, once a killer enemy, was now desperate to be named

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020092
