/ BARAK / 82

issues raised by our proposals and showing a willingness to find common ground
would we have any hope of success. No recess, Clinton said. He needed a straight
answer. Again, not full acceptance necessarily, but agreement to treat the proposals
as a basis for negotiating an Israeli-Palestinian peace. Arafat’s answer came shortly
before dawn. It was “no”.

Clinton couldn’t quite believe it. He went back to see Arafat, telling him he was
making an error on the scale of 1948, when the Palestinians had rejected the
partition of Palestine and the creation of an Arab state; or in 1978, when by
negotiating on the basis of Sadat’s Palestinian-rights framework, they would have
ended up with a mere 5,000 Israeli settlers on the West Bank instead of nearly
200,000. What most astonished Clinton was that Arafat was saying no even to
using the package as a basis for negotiations. Still, Arafat would not budge.

As Palestinian negotiators tried to salvage things by suggesting another trip by
Madeleine and Dennis to the Middle East, it was clear that even the Americans
were fed up. They knew that one side, at least, had been trying to get an agreement.
They couldn’t understand why Arafat was unwilling even to accept the “pocket”
proposals as a basis for further talks. When Yossi Ginossar, our most reliable
conduit, went to see Arafat, he found him sitting alone and, in Yossi’s description,
“paralyzed.” Clinton finally decided to have one last go. When he did, Arafat not
only remained unwilling. To the President’s astonishment, he insisted that the
ancient Jewish temple hadn’t been in Jerusalem at all, but in the West Bank city of
Nablus.

I was getting a bite to eat in the dining room in Laurel Lodge when Madeleine
showed up. She didn’t bother defending Arafat. She was as frustrated as I was. Her
message was that after the summit, it was important not to make things worse. A
negotiating process had to be kept alive. Then, Clinton sat down with me. He
delivered a similar message, but with even greater feeling. “You’re smarter than I
am,” he joked. “You’re certainly experienced in war, and I’m not. But I’m more
experienced in politics, and there are a few things I’ve learned along the way. The
most important is not to corner your adversaries, and not to corner yourself.
Always leave yourself a way out. Don’t lock yourself into a losing option.” I could
see that he was right. I also believed, as strongly now as before the summit, that
Israel’s own interests and its security were not served by an unresolved conflict
with the Palestinians. The problem was that, in the absence of an equal
commitment on Arafat’s side, any continued negotiating process seemed futile.

368

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011839
