PS How to trade the Trump-GOP demolition of the welfare state, erratic elevation of risks of trade
disruptions and war? Has anyone from the rational center or left given thought to how to respond to a
national emergency to cope with a kakistocratic seizure of emergency powers? The Patriot Act was on a
‘shelf as you know, ready to be used. What should the better folks in this country have at hand if, say, a port
is subject to a radiological attack of unknown origin?

On Fri, Jan 20, 2017 at 1:07 AM, David Grosof 5  §f wrote:

Dear Jeffrey,

A Congratulations on another spin around the sun.

A I would like to offer you a birthday present: my best efforts for a few hours on something where I might be
able to contribute either to making something good happen for you or help you prevent the bad.

We haven't talked much at all for quite some time, so I'm not sure of the nature of your current interests but
here are some of mine, where I feel I either have some special capability or can get access to those who have
such.

* open science -- open access publishing, data publishing, and open culture institutions considered as a
network with largely consistent and mutually reinforcing values: Public Library of Science (PLoS),
Wikipedia, Internet Archive, Electronic Frontier Foundation, and Creative Commons, along with allied US,
UK, European governmental and NGO funding sources and other institutions.

* early-stage life science-based ventures, especially those with one or more of these technologies: optics,
wearable-sensors, brain-computer interface, behavioral engineering that goes beyond robo-noodging. Iam
not up to speed on synthetic bio and CRISPR, but I have a good friend who is.

* cybersecurity for you and your life. I have carefully monitored the web for articles about you and I have
reason to think that those will persist indefinitely. I would be remiss as your friend if I did not encourage you
to be as diligent and smart as possible in using tools like Signal, two-factor/multi-factor authentication,
taking webmail archives off the web onto your own secure privately maintained archive or deleted (unlike
Podesta), and other measures.

* publicity for your cool-ass creative and important philanthropy in support of really good and
adventuresome, high-risk basic science research. Most obvious benefit: it would be nice to know you hung
out with the bright

RR RR KR ROR

AAAAAAA please note

The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of

JEE

Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited
and may be unlawful. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by

return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025170
