technical expression for this is ttme-reversal symmetry. This basic property seems to be entirely at odds with the
pronounced unidirectionality of experienced time. In fact, there are several arrows.

Until recent work by myself and my collaborators Tim Koslowski and Flavio Mercati, essentially only one
proposal had been made—in well over a century—to explain why, despite the ttme-reversal symmetry of all the
laws of nature, these pronounced arrows of time exist, and always have existed, throughout the observable
universe. As I explain in The Janus Point, this sole explanation is a manifest stop gap and satisfies no serious
scientist.

This has been dubbed the past hypothesis. However, it is not in any sense an explanation that follows from the
structure of the law and does not lead to any new prediction. It is an admission of defeat: Modern science fails to
explain the most profound aspects of our existence.

The Janus Point is clearly timely because it is about a set of very simple ideas and insights that have the
potential to solve one of the deepest and longest-standing problems in physics. Everyone is interested in time
and its numerous puzzling aspects. Proof of that is the success of my earlier book The End of Time, which is still
selling more than sixteen years after its publication. Some of the ideas conjectured in that book are, in fact,
realized in the model now proposed.

For readers, The Janus Point tells the fascinating story of one of the greatest mysteries in science and what
looks to be its unexpected and, in principle, remarkably simple solution. More than most books in popular
science, its subject resonates profoundly with the reader. Nothing touches us more intimately than the drama of
birth, life and death.

JULIAN BARBOUR, an independent researcher, is currently visiting professor at the University of Oxford. He
has devoted significant time and effort to issues that lie at the foundations of science, above all the nature of
time and motion. His first paper was published in Nature and attracted favorable editorial comment and most
importantly led to six years of very valuable collaboration with the well-known Italian theorist Bruno Bertotti. It
culminated in 1982 with a joint paper in the Proceedings of the Royal Society of London, which is now regarded
as a seminal paper on the interconnection of local dynamics with the universe at large. Barbour made a big
impact in the physics community with the publication of his book, The End of Time, in which, according to
physicist Lee Smolin, he presented a new theory of time that is the most interesting and provocative new idea
about time to be proposed in many years.

b+
—_— ‘
AMERICAN KINGPIN
The Epic Hunt for the Criminal Mastermind Behind the Silk Road
By Nick Bilton

[US — Portfolio, UK — Virgin Books, Audio — Penguin RH; Manuscript; 304 pages; Publication: May 2017]

From New York Times-bestselling author Nick Bilton comes a true-life thriller about the rise and fall of Ross
Ulbricht, aka the Dread Pirate Roberts, the founder of the online black market Silk Road.

In American Kingpin Bilton turns his investigative journalism to the story of Ross Ulbricht, the notorious and
enigmatic founder of a drug empire called Silk Road. This is a true-life thriller about ambition gone awry,
spurred on by the defining clash of our time: the new world of libertarian-leaning, anonymous, decentralized
web advocates and the old world of government control, order, and the rule of law. Bilton’s dazzling rendering
and gift for narrative make for an endlessly fascinating drama.

In 2011, Ulbricht, a twenty-six-year-old libertarian idealist and former Boy Scout, launched “a website where
people could buy anything anonymously, with no trail whatsoever that could lead back to them.” He called it
Silk Road, opened for business on the Dark Web, and christened himself the Dread Pirate Roberts (after the

Brockman, Inc. Frankfurt 2016 Hotlist
2

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025148
