OOK Ok

On February 3, the White House hosted a carefully orchestrated meeting of one of the
newly organized business councils, the president’s Strategic and Policy Forum. It was a
group of highly placed CEOs and weighty business types brought together by Blackstone
chief Stephen Schwarzman. The planning for the event—with a precise agenda,
choreographed seating and introductions, and fancy handouts—was more due to
Schwarzman than to the White House. But it ended up being the kind of event that Trump
did very well at and very much enjoyed. Kellyanne Conway, often referencing the
Schwarzman gathering, would soon begin a frequent theme of complaint, namely that
these kinds of events—Trump sitting down with serious-minded people and looking for
solutions to the nation’s problems—were the soul of Trump’s White House and the media
was giving them scant coverage.

Hosting business advisory councils was a Kushner strategy. It was an enlightened
business approach, distracting Trump from what Kushner viewed as the unenlightened
right-wing agenda. To an increasingly scornful Bannon, its real purpose was to allow
Kushner himself to consort with CEOs.

Schwarzman reflected what to many was a surprising and sudden business and Wall
Street affinity for Trump. Although few major-company CEOs had publicly supported him
—with many, if not all, big companies planning for a Hillary Clinton victory and already
hiring Clinton-connected public policy teams and with a pervasive media belief that a
Trump victory would assure a market tailspin—there was suddenly an overnight warming.
An antiregulatory White House and the promise of tax reform outweighed the prospect of
disruptive tweeting and other forms of Trump chaos; besides, the market had not stopped
climbing since November 9, the day after the election. What’s more, in one-on-one
meetings, CEOs were reporting good vibes from Trump’s effusive and artful flattery—and
the sudden relief of not having to deal with what some knew to be relentless Clinton-team
hondling (what can you do for us today and can we use your plan?).

On the other hand, while there was a warming C-suite feeling for Trump, there was
also rising concern about the consumer side of many big brands. The Trump brand was
suddenly the world’s biggest brand—the new Apple, except the opposite, since it was
universally disdained (at least among many of the consumers who most top brands sought
to court).

Hence, on inaugural morning, the employees of Uber, the ride sharing company, whose
then CEO Travis Kalanick had signed on to the Schwarzman council, woke up to find
people chained to the doors of their San Francisco headquarters. The charge was that Uber
and Kalanick were “collaborating”—with its whiff of Vichy—a much different status than
a business looking to sober forums with the president as a way to influence the
government. Indeed, the protesters who believed they were seeing the company’s
relationship with Trump in political terms were actually seeing this in conventional brand

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019950
