The Great Divide | 119

the NSA’s penetrations in China. Putin echoed this expansion of the
whistle-blowing concept to adversaries. He complimented Snowden
for having “uncovered illegal acts by the United States around the
globe.” Putin’s defense of Snowden not only implied a global concept
of whistle-blowing that justifies breaking U.S. laws but also pointed
to America’s double standard in publicly complaining about Russian
and Chinese cyber espionage.

Snowden’s whistle-blower interpretation gained immense public
resonance. Even after President Obama and leaders of both houses
of Congress roundly denounced Snowden for betraying American
secrets, the majority of the public, according to a Quinnipiac poll
taken in July 2013, still considered “Snowden a whistleblower who
did a service revealing government domestic spying programs.”
Moreover, Snowden’s revelations helped stoke a growing distrust of
the American government itself. According to polls conducted by
the Pew Research Center after Snowden came forward, just 19 per-
cent of the public said that “they can trust the government always
or most of the time.” The support for Snowden was not limited to

© America. On October 29, 2015, a majority of the European Parlia- ©
ment voted to award Snowden the official status of a “human rights
defender.”

The former congressman Ron Paul went even further. He orga-
nized a clemency petition in February 2014 for Snowden, stating,
“Thanks to one man’s courageous actions, Americans know about
the truly egregious ways their government is spying on them,” and
his son Senator Rand Paul, who was a candidate for the Republican
presidential nomination in 2016, called for a pardon for Snowden.

Senator Paul’s concern fitted with the growing public apprehen-
sion over increasing intrusion on privacy. Snowden was correct,
in my opinion, in describing the threat of a surveillance state and
the loss of privacy as a legitimate public concern. “We actually buy
cell phones that are the equivalent of a network microphone that
we carry around in our pockets voluntarily,” he pointed out from
Moscow.

The very technology involved in the electronic equipment we all
use in the twenty-first century has made mass surveillance part of
our daily life. There can be little doubt that our privacy has been

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 119 ® 9/29/16 5:51PM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019607
