Now that call converges with something we have to face, and it’s a very unpleasant topic,
but we are in an outright war against jihadist Islamic fascism. And this war is, I think,
metastasizing far quicker than governments can handle it.

If you look at what’s happening in ISIS, which is the Islamic State of Syria and the Levant,
that is now currently forming the caliphate that is having a military drive on Baghdad, if
you look at the sophistication of which they’ve taken the tools of capitalism. If you look at
what they’ve done with Twitter and Facebook and modern ways to fundraise, and to use
crowdsourcing to fund, besides all the access to weapons, over the last couple days they
have had a radical program of taking kids and trying to turn them into bombers. They have
driven 50,000 Christians out of a town near the Kurdish border. We have video that we’re
putting up later today on Breitbart where they've took 50 hostages and thrown them off a
cliff in Iraq.

That war is expanding and it’s metastasizing to sub-Saharan Africa. We have Boko Haram
and other groups that will eventually partner with ISIS in this global war, and it is,
unfortunately, something that we’re going to have to face, and we’re going to have to face
very quickly.

So I think the discussion of, should we put a cap on wealth creation and distribution? It’s
something that should be at the heart of every Christian that is a capitalist — “What is the
purpose of whatever I’m doing with this wealth? What is the purpose of what I’m doing
with the ability that God has given us, that divine providence has given us to actually be a
creator of jobs and a creator of wealth?”

I think it really behooves all of us to really take a hard look and make sure that we are
reinvesting that back into positive things. But also to make sure that we understand that
we're at the very beginning stages of a global conflict, and if we do not bind together as
partners with others in other countries that this conflict is only going to metastasize.
They have a Twitter account up today, ISIS does, about turning the United States into a
“river of blood” if it comes in and tries to defend the city of Baghdad. And trust me, that is
going to come to Europe. That is going to come to Central Europe, it’s going to come to
Western Europe, it’s going to come to the United Kingdom. And so J think we are ina
crisis of the underpinnings of capitalism, and on top of that we’re now, I believe, at the

beginning stages of a global war against Islamic fascism.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029025
