Twelve Cognitive Processes That Underlie Learning 49

a child who speaks poorly. The value held by the parents may well
be that self-confidence is more important than being articulate (“We
don’t want to criticize him.”). Perhaps it is. But the consequences of
one’s values manifest themselves every time a value-based decision is
made.

Nevertheless, we do need to learn to make value-based judgments.
Doing this requires understanding what our values are. Confronting
a person with her own value system (one that she has unconsciously
adopted) can help her think things out, but change is never easy.

ANALYTIC PROCESSES

1. Diagnosis: Making a diagnosis of a complex situation by
identifying relevant factors and seeking causal explanations

Diagnosis is a very important skill and one that needs to be learned
both in principle and separately for each domain of knowledge. Diag-
nosis of heart disease isn’t a different process in principle from diag-
nosis of a faulty spark plug in a car engine. Nevertheless, one wants a
specialist to do the diagnosis in each case. Why is this? Diagnosis is a
matter of both reasoning from evidence and understanding what to
look for to gather evidence. Given all the evidence, it is easy to make
a diagnosis in an area of knowledge you don’t know very well. So, the
gathering of the evidence is the most important part. Crime analysts
and gardeners both do diagnosis. They both reason from evidence.
What separates them is knowing what constitutes important evidence
and what does not. Here again, this comes from experienced cases.

Analytic processes involve attention to details that enable the
forming of hypotheses that can be tested by a variety of methods.
These three pieces, determining evidence, forming hypotheses, and
testing hypotheses, are what is commonly referred to as the scientific
method. When science is taught, it often dwells on the facts of science
rather than the process. Diagnosis is about the process. But the process
is not of much use without domain knowledge. Domain knowledge
is often about causality, although that knowledge of causality may be
subconscious. Experts know what causes an engine to misfire so they

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023795
