you I and Brad karp sit together if you think it would be helpful. . I would like to send him this email, with
your consent of course. Ifthe transactions were never consummated , 1 would not be owed a dime,
however , the expected fee was known up front. , the detailed step by step plan was followed and
overseen by me, the amount that I had requested before the transaction had even begun, had already
been heavily discounted, out of friendship, . I believe the decision re only paying 20 m has frankly , left
me felling quite uneasy. and colors the view about the Athene or Rothschild transaction.

Date: Fri, Jan 29, 2016 at 2:39 PM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella (iii iii

you've agreed that

Your office is a multi billion dollar responsibility. your children will inherit it , in order to oversee their
financial lives- I feel for you, truly ,but the facts are the facts, your ceo ( Brad) has provided one bad
document after another for over a year , no getting away from it,, badcash flows nonewIT, each
time with  its gettting better no in fact -! itsnot. - the excuse, that Brad is not the numbers guy, is
ludicrous. of course he didnt actually prepare the statements. - no ceo would ,- but over and over he
presented them to you and me, after , holding them back for his personal review multiple times and after
multiple drafts. weeks of his editing, the consistant but inexplicable missing the obvious serious
errors .( gaming ) inaccuracies, ( cashflow ) and mistakes (tax returns). why, ?! the simple answer is
that at best, he is ac minus, (note. I, like you ,also give points for effort. )-! an elegant art partnership
gone fallow. ??!!I and its core reason to exist. not used ? no docs for plane?, still ! why? no docs for
decantings why? the docs for deal | received last night , no docs at all for deal 2, the biggest . why
wasn't Tom brought in, after 4 times of my incessant reminders i spoke to him, he knows little of either
transaction except for over view. never saw pahidon anything except projections until yesterday ? ?and
this after your clear admonition etc. re the trading accounts no activity, at all,

Barry Cohen is great. more like him please .
you asked ,- I did my best trying to train your brad chosen people in the face of my telling you that they
were never going to be more than c-minuses, thousands of emails thousands? Brad at its head . you
can't as aceo, have an accountant give you multiple pages with the most important numbers missing
altogether and not notice, you and I saw the errrors right away ,as did my very junior bookeeper after
only a cursory glance. He told me he didnt know the details of his note? ! , my guess is that he wanted to
pay less. no more than that, any other story is blather. its silly. Talk to richard yourself.
re your estate. Yes another Brad issue - your will, needs revision. the tenants in common structure I
assume Alan has carefully walked you through. it is way overdue, needed and exciting. I won't list the
more serious issues in an email but we can speak over the weekend.

How can I help? We agreed at the time when you hired Castrucci , that when you fired him, I would
bear no responsibility because it was clear that he shouldnt be hired. brad and you both said , its on us,
but... the equivalent of your art consultant pointing to a picasso and calling ita renoir. then a brancusi
and calling it a michaelangelo. those were the types of erros that 1 saw immediatily, you said give them
more time. at least they saw it was a painting and not a photo?

being weaned of our biz /pay realtionship has been our mutual goal. However since novemebr, you
chose to do so by ignoring’ our agreement re, phaidon,and your oft stated commitment to me of large
payments for large value, (37 percent was our number ). chose to pay me anumber picked by what
appears to be only by whim,- have yet to justify it except for telling me that you and Brad Karp talked..

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023232
