Debt - In the case of the federal
government, the total value of outstanding
bills, notes, bonds, and other debt
instruments issued by the Treasury and
other federal agencies. That debt is referred
to as federal debt or gross debt. It has two
components - debt held by the public (
federal debt held by nonfederal investors,
including the Federal Reserve System) and
debt held by government accounts (federal
debt held by federal government trust funds,
deposit insurance funds, and other federal
accounts). Debt subject to limit is federal
debt that is subject to a statutory limit on the
total amount issued. The limit applies to
gross federal debt except for a small portion
of the debt issued by the Treasury and the
small amount of debt issued by other federal
agencies (primarily the Tennessee Valley
Authority and the Postal Service).

Deductible (Medical Insurance) - A fixed
amount, usually expressed in dollars in the
form of an annual fee, that the beneficiary of
a health insurance plan must pay directly to
the health care provider before a health
insurance plan begins to pay for any costs
associated with the insured medical service.

Deficit - The amount by which the federal
government's total outlays exceed its total
revenues in a given period, typically a fiscal
year. The primary deficit is that total deficit
excluding net interest.

Defined Benefit Pension Plan — Retirees
receive predetermined monthly retirement
benefits from employers despite the funding
status / investment returns of their pension
funds.

Defined Contribution Pension Plan —
Retirees contribute specified amount to their
pension funds and receive variable monthly
retirement benefits depending on investment
returns. Examples include Individual
Retirement Accounts (IRAs) and 401(k)
plans.

_)
Ise) www.kpcb.com

Disposable Personal Income - Personal
income—the income that people receive,
including transfer payments—minus the
taxes and fees that people pay to
governments.

Economic Stimulus - Federal fiscal or
monetary policies aimed at promoting
economic activity, used primarily during
recessions. Such policies include reductions
in taxes, increases in federal spending,
reductions in interest rates, and other
support for financial markets and institutions.

Entitlement - A legal obligation of the
federal government to make payments to a
person, group of people, business, unit of
government, or similar entity that meets the
eligibility criteria set in law and for which the
budget authority is not provided in advance
in an appropriation act. Spending for
entitlement programs is controlled through
those programs’ eligibility criteria and benefit
or payment rules. The best-known
entitlements are the government’s major
benefit programs, such as Social Security
and Medicare.

Excise Tax - A tax levied on the purchase of
a specific type of good or service, such as
tobacco products or air transportation
services.

Federal Poverty Level (FPL) - Income
amounts set each February by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services
used to determine an individual's or family's
eligibility for various public programs,
including Medicaid and the State Children's
Health Insurance Program.

Federal Reserve System - The central
bank of the United States. The Federal
Reserve is responsible for setting the
nation’s monetary policy and overseeing
credit conditions. See central bank and
monetary policy.

USA Inc. xxi

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021078
