Free Will 319

The Observer

I am looking out of my office window. It is a sunny autumn day and I
have a beautiful view over London, but if I squint a little I can also see
my reflection. The window in front of me is not perfect. Although it is
mostly transparent, the glass also reflects some of the light. If you think
of light as particles, the majority of the photons go through. But some
bounce back. I’m going to show you that the behavior of these photons is
governed by the observer — me!

The laws governing light, and most of the strange and wonderful
effects it has, were first stated by Isaac Newton. Newton was an
extraordinary man. He discovered many of the physical principles we use
today, and his view of the Universe reigned unchallenged until Einstein’s
discovery of relativity. He was also, by many accounts, a nasty piece of
work. Not only was he a famous academic, he also head of the Royal
Mint. He is said to have taken great pleasure in having forgers hanged
on Tower Hill. He claimed the invention of differential calculus despite it
being invented independently by Gottfried Leibniz. Newton managed to
have himself appointed to chair the committee reviewing Leibniz’s work
and determine who had come up with the idea first. Unsurprisingly, the
committee found for Newton!

We see Newton's laws of reflection and transmission in all manner
of everyday products, for example, the antireflective coatings of camera
lenses or the screen of your smartphone. Manufacturers cover the glass
in these products with coatings just a few molecules thick. Interference
between the layers kills the reflections. On a very expensive lens several
different layers are used; some kill red light and others kill blue light.
Together they suppress most of the reflection. If it were not for these
coatings you would be unable to go to the park on a summer's day and
read your iPad. We need to think about reflection and transmission to
demonstrate our role as observers.

A windowpane has two surfaces. Both surfaces reflect light, and if
you look closely you will see your face is really reflected twice. You might
think this is simply a double reflection but this is not so. Light behaves
like waves. As with water waves, they interfere with one another. If two
light waves are at the top of a crest as they meet, the result is a crest of
double height. If both are at the bottom, you have a double trough, and if
one is a crest and the other a trough you get nothing as they cancel each
other out. You can see this effect in waves on the surface of a pond.

When light strikes a window pane, the light has two chances to
reflect: one from the front surface and the second from the back surface.
These two reflections interfere with each other. And, again, when you

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016009
