May: The Justice Department issues finding that, if a plea deal is not reached,
Epstein can be federally prosecuted.

Palm Beach multimillionaire Jeffrey Epstein is a free man, despite sexually abusing
dozens of underage girls according to police and prosecutors. His victims have never
had a voice, until now.

June: Epstein’s lawyers revisit plea negotiations, and on June 30, Epstein appears
in a Palm Beach County courtroom. He pleads guilty to state charges: one count of
solicitation of prostitution and one count of solicitation of prostitution with a minor
under the age of 18. He is sentenced to 18 months in jail, followed by a year of
community control or house arrest. He is adjudicated as a convicted sex offender
who must register twice a year in Florida.

July: Epstein’s victims learn about his plea in state court after the fact. They file an
emergency petition to force federal prosecutors to comply with the federal Crime
Victims’ Rights Act, which mandates certain rights for crime victims, including the
right to be informed about plea agreements and the right to appear at sentencing.

August: Epstein’s victims learn that he has already been sent to jail, and that the
federal investigation is over. They seek to have his plea agreement unsealed, but
federal prosecutors argue against releasing the agreement, commencing a yearlong
court battle to learn the terms of Epstein’s plea bargain.

October: Epstein begins work release from the county stockade. He is picked up by
his private driver six days a week and transported to an office in West Palm Beach,
where he accepts visitors for up to 12 hours a day. He returns to the stockade in the
evenings to sleep.

Support investigative journalism

The Miami Herald obtained thousands of FBI and court records, lawsuits, and
witness depositions, and went to federal court in New York to access sealed
documents in the reporting of Perversion of Justice. The Herald also tracked down
more than 60 women who said they were victims, some of whom had never spoken
of the abuse before.

Your digital subscription, starting at $0.99 for the first month, supports
investigative journalism like this.

2009

July: Epstein is released from the Palm Beach County stockade, five months early.
He must register as a sex offender and is on probation for a year, confined to his
Palm Beach home except to travel to his office in West Palm Beach. However,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023008
