Raider of the Inner Sanctum | 77

word access, at least during the two-month-long training period, to
the computers that he had not been specifically “read into,” which
did not include those computers that stored the Level 3 lists. Access
to these tightly controlled compartments was limited to only a hand-
ful of analysts at the center who had a need to know.

Because the new job entailed handling higher-level secret docu-
ments, Booz Allen had stricter requirements for applicants than
Dell. To slip by them, Snowden had engaged in a minor subterfuge.
He wrote on his application that he was expecting a master’s degree
from the online division of Liverpool University in England. In fact,
he had not completed a single course at Liverpool and would not be
receiving any sort of a degree from it. Booz Allen did not verify this
and had agreed to hire him as a trainee-analyst. It did not change
that decision even after it found out about his subterfuge.

According to Admiral McConnell, Snowden never actually
worked in the Booz Allen offices, which are housed in a skyscraper in
downtown Honolulu. Instead, he was immediately assigned to work
at the NSA’s highly sensitive National Threat Operations Center at

© the Kunia base, the same location where he had worked for Dell. ©

Before he could begin working there, however, he needed to fly to
Maryland to take a mandatory orientation course at the NSA. The
course was given in an eleven-story building, with a sheer wall of
black glass, on the NSA’s 350-acre campus at Fort Meade. He arrived
there from Hawaii on April 1, 2013. Like every other Booz Allen
contractor who worked at the NSA’s center, Snowden was required
to sign the “Sensitive Compartmented Information Nondisclosure
Agreement.” In this document, Snowden acknowledged that he had
been granted access to sensitive compartmented information, called
SCI, as part of his work and that he understood that any disclosure
of that information to an unauthorized person would violate fed-
eral criminal law. He was also told, as were all new contract employ-
ees at Booz Allen, that its disclosure could damage the interests of
the United States and benefit its enemies. In signing the document,
he swore an oath not to divulge any of this information without
first receiving written approval from U.S. authorities. So less than
two months before he downloaded sensitive compartmented infor-

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 77 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019565
