added impulsively, Take care, handsome, and have lots of wonderful children.

You too,” he replied. We'll see if I become okay with poly first, or you gain these ‘adult’
preferences...”

I shook my head and laughed over my phone, walked home with a spring in my step.

San Francisco had done what I needed it to do.

This can be found on the Internet at:

S&M:

[theory] BDSM As A Sexual Orientation, and Complications of the
Orientation Model

The first version of this post was written in 2009. I updated it slightly and reposted it in
2012. The online version includes an evolving set of relevant links at the end.

te ok ok

BDSM As A Sexual Orientation, and Complications of the Orientation Model

There's a hilarious sticker that you can buy online at a website called TopPun.com. It
shows a list with Homosexual Agenda” written at the top. The list items are: 1. Spend
time with family, 2. Be treated equally, 3. Buy milk.” (You can also buy a keychain
version.)

I love that because it so perfectly highlights how preposterous all those right-wing
accusations about the gay agenda are. Actually, gay people just want to live their lives
like everyone else; the to-do list for most gay people looks a lot like most other people's.

In a way, that sticker also highlights some problems with the very concept of sexual
orientations -- the way we sort ourselves into groups based on sexuality and its apparent
innateness. Why do people have to insist on being so different from each other? A
question that sometimes gets raised in BDSM contexts: is BDSM a sexual orientation?
And I have such mixed feelings about that question. I feel intense BDSM as an incredibly
important aspect of my sexuality, perhaps an innate one, but I don't want us to fall into
the same traps that beset homosexuality.

I remember the first moment it occurred to me to consider BDSM an orientation -- the
first time I used that word. I believe I was writing up my coming-out story at the time; I
was discussing the way I freaked out when I came into BDSM, and I wrote: Jn

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018531
