° In October, Arizona State denied a request from BuzzFeed News for documents relating to complaints

of sexual harassment against you. However, Cynthia Jewett, the university's senior associate general counsel,
noted that two individuals, neither affiliated with the university, had complained about you. “The University did

not find either communication to state a credible allegation,” Jewett wrote.

Miscellaneous facts:

° In 2008, you founded the Origins Project at Arizona State University in Tempe, a multidisciplinary effort
to understand the origins of the universe, life, and social systems. You have led that effort ever since.

e Thanks to best-selling books like The Physics of Star Trek and A Universe From Nothing, frequent
essays in publications including the New Yorker and the New York Times, and the documentary you made with
biologist Richard Dawkins, called The Unbelievers, you are celebrated as one of America’s leading public
intellectuals.

° You served on the science policy committee for Barack Obama’s 2008 presidential campaign and are a
vocal critic of President Donald Trump.

° You also make regular public appearances across the world, often at gatherings of skeptics and
atheists.

° At CSICon in Las Vegas in October, a few dozen fans paid $500 per head to attend a VIP luncheon
with you and Dawkins.

° Many more lined up to get you to sign their copy of your latest book, The Greatest Story Ever Told —
So Far.

° Online, people can buy T-shirts emblazoned “Lawrence Krauss for President.”

° In talks and interviews, you have argued that our universe arose without divine intervention, that

religion drives xenophobia, and that our brains are hardwired to believe.

° You have stated that science provides answers to many of life’s biggest questions, and can even fix
great societal injustices.

° Earlier this year, at a Q&A event to promote your new book, the conversation came around to the
dearth of women and minorities in science. “Science itself overcomes misogyny and prejudice and bias,” you
said. “It’s built in: Questioning yourself, always questioning results, questioning others, relying on empirical
evidence.”

° You have clashed with some skeptics over your defense of Jeffrey Epstein, a billionaire financier who in
2008 was convicted for soliciting prostitution from underage girls, and spent 13 months in a Florida jail.

° Through his private foundation, Epstein has funded the work of several prominent scientists. He has
provided funding for your Origins Project, supporting lectureship and scholarship programs, most recently
pledging $100,000 in 2014.

° In April 2011, you told the Daily Beast: “As a scientist | always judge things on empirical evidence and
he always has women ages 19 to 23 around him, but I’ve never seen anything else, so as a scientist, my
presumption is that whatever the problems were | would believe him over other people.”

° In a blog comment about the Epstein controversy, you wrote: “I remain skeptical, and | support a man
whose character | believe I know...If you want to condemn me for that, so be it.”

° You were made an honorary member of CFI’s board of directors in December 2011.

° A blog post published in August 2013 described incidents #1 and #4, naming you. Another post,

published at around the same time, described incident #5.

° The first post was edited to remove your name after you had commented that the allegations of assault
were “potentially illegal.” The second post was quickly taken down.

Again, if you wish to comment on or clarify any of these points, please get in touch with us as soon as possible.
If | do not respond immediately it is because | am on another call, so please leave the best phone number to
reach you.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031237
