Conference, the Central United Front Work Conference, and the National Overseas
Chinese Work Conference. These are large gatherings that last two to three days and
are attended by key central, provincial, and local leaders, as well as various ministries
and the Chinese military. These conferences serve to provide overall policy direction to
cadres working in that bureaucratic system ( 系统 ) as well as to issue very specific annual
plans for the coming year’s activities. 2
One measure of the importance of these conferences can be gauged by who gives the
keynote speech. For example, Xi Jinping gave the keynote speeches at the Central
Foreign Affairs Work Conference (2014 and 2018), the Central United Front Work
Appendix 1
137
Conference (2015), and the National Propaganda Work Conference (2013 and 2018).
When Xi does not give the keynote speech, the Politburo member in charge of that
domain gives it. By contrast, the keynote speech at the National Overseas Chinese
Conference in 2017 was given by Yang Jiechi, who was at that time a state councilor
responsible for foreign affairs.
• The Central Foreign Affairs Work Conference is held at irregular intervals (2006,
2014, and 2018) to review Chinese foreign policy and announce new initiatives
and objectives. It is attended by key ministers, ambassadors, senior military
officers, and local officials responsible for foreign affairs.
• The Central United Front Work Conference, which used to be called the National
United Front Work Conference, is also convened at irregular intervals (2000, 2006,
and 2015). Both national and local officials responsible for religious, ethnic, and
overseas Chinese affairs participate.
• Prior to 2013, the External Propaganda Work Conference was convened annually.
But starting after that year, this conference has become part of the annual National
Propaganda Work Conference. Officials in the propaganda sector from all over
China attend these conferences.
• The National Overseas Chinese Work Conference was held roughly every six years
(2005, 2011, and 2017). Only national and local officials responsible for overseas
Chinese affairs participate.
Hierarchy and Division of Labor
The CCP-affiliated organizations in our diagram that are involved in making policies
concerned with Chinese influence activities abroad enjoy higher political status
than those that execute these policies. What makes the Chinese system notable is
the division of labor, the specialization of its bureaucracies, and the staffing of these
bureaucracies with well-trained and experienced professionals. Besides engaging
their counterparts overseas, these bureaucracies either oversee or directly conduct
influence operations in their areas of specialization. While there exists no single
organization overseeing the entirety of China’s influence activities abroad (although
if any one does have such sweeping purview, it is the Foreign Affairs Commission),
in the implementation of policies aimed to expand Chinese influence abroad, there
Appendix 1
138
are two types of bureaucracies: (1) general-purpose bureaucracies, and (2) specialized
bureaucracies. The following institutional profiles include many of the principal bodies
involved in China’s overseas influence activities.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is a typical general-purpose bureaucracy that serves
as China’s main interlocutor with foreign governments. But since most of its time is
consumed by routine diplomatic activities, the Foreign Ministry itself does not play a
significant role in influence operations overseas. The one area where it does is via its
Department of Public Diplomacy ( 外交部公共外交司 ), which primarily oversees the MFA
Spokesman’s Office in Beijing, international media outreach, and China’s embassy
spokesmen abroad; international visitor programs; and “exchange” organizations, such
as the Chinese People’s Institute of Foreign Affairs (which bring a range of former
officials and international affairs experts to China). Also, the MFA is important
insofar as Chinese embassies abroad have representatives of the Ministry of Culture,
the Xinhua News Agency, the CCP International Liaison Department, the Ministry
of Education, and other bureaucratic bodies, each of which are involved in foreign
influence activities.
United Front Work Department
The CCP United Front Work Department is a specialized CCP organization, one of
four Central Committee departments. 3 Its principal mission is to build support for
the CCP and its policies among domestic ethnic groups, religious groups, the eight
so-called democratic parties ( 民主党派 ), the Chinese diaspora worldwide, and political,
economic, and social elites in Hong Kong, Macao, and Taiwan. These United Front
activities have a long history dating to the CCP’s pre-1949 rise to power. The main
tasks and objectives of the CCP’s United Front activities outside of Greater China are
laid out in Article 31 of the CCP Guidelines on United Front Work ( 中国共产党统一战线工作条例 ) issued in 2015—they target almost exclusively the Chinese diaspora, who
are supposed to be encouraged to “contribute to the modernization and reunification
of the motherland, advance the cause of opposing (Taiwanese) independence and
promoting reunification, inherit and propagate China’s outstanding culture, and
promote the friendship between the Chinese people and the peoples of the other
countries in the world.”
Appendix 1
139
Although the United Front Work Department has attracted much media attention,
and the term “United Front” has become a euphemistic one for many analysts writing
about China’s influence activities abroad, the scope of the UFWD’s activities in
China’s external influence operations is actually limited. Its primary target audience
is the Chinese diaspora in general, and its elite members in particular. The mission
of engaging and influencing nonethnic Chinese audiences, individuals, and foreign
institutions is assigned to other specialized Chinese entities—such as the Chinese
Academy of Social Sciences, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Education,
the Ministry of State Security (e.g., China Institutes of Contemporary International
Relations), and other institutions that have well-trained professionals and long-standing
ties with their counterparts overseas.
International [Liaison] Department
The CCP’s International [Liaison] Department ( 中央联络部 ) is in charge of “party-toparty
relations” ( 党际关系 ) and has the primary mission of cultivating foreign political
parties and politicians around the world. This Party organ has existed since before
1949 and was formerly charged with maintaining China’s fraternal ties with other
communist and socialist parties around the world, but in the wake of the Cold War,
the CCP/ID drastically broadened its mandate to interact with virtually all political
parties abroad (except fascist and racist parties). Today it claims to maintain ties
with over 400 political parties in 140 countries, receives about 200 delegations,
and dispatches about 100 abroad every year. CCP/ID exchanges have provided an
important prism through which the CCP and other organizations in China monitor
the outside world and absorb lessons for China’s own modernization. This kind of
information gathering goes well beyond traditional intelligence collection (although,
to be sure, the ID also engages in this activity).
Through its interactions with political parties all over the world, the CCP/ID serves
an important function as a kind of “radar” for identifying up-and-coming foreign
politicians before they attain national prominence and office. Having identified
such rising stars, the CCP/ID brings them to China (usually on all-expenses-paid
visits)—often offering them their first exposure to China and trying to make the
best possible impression on them. Another key dimension of this function has been to
expose CCP leaders at the provincial and sub-provincial levels to the outside world—
often for the first time. Many provincial Party secretaries, governors, mayors and other
leading local cadres are taken abroad on ID delegations every year. The CCP/ID has
Appendix 1
140
also played a key diplomatic role in certain instances, such as providing a liaison
dialogue channel between the United States and North Korea.
In addition, the ILD performs a range of other functions:
• Administering “private sector” liaison organizations to facilitate contact with
think tanks, NGOs, and individuals worldwide;
• Collecting current intelligence and information on the foreign policies,
domestic political scene and political parties, and societies in various nations
worldwide;
• Sending special study teams abroad to research important topics related to
China’s reforms;
• Contributing to the work of Chinese embassies worldwide (usually monitoring
domestic politics and liaising with domestic political parties, movements, and
personages);
• Working with other CCP Central Committee departments and State Council
ministries to facilitate their work overseas (e.g., assisting the United Front Work
Department concerning Taiwan, the External Propaganda Leading Group/State
Council Information Office concerning China’s image abroad, or the National
People’s Congress on parliamentary exchanges);
• Arranging visits of central-level, provincial-level, municipal-level, and
occasionally sub-provincial level CCP officials abroad;
• Hosting foreign leaders, politicians, party officials, ex-officials, as well as a range
of foreign policy specialists, on tours of China;
• Hosting biannual World Political Parties High-Level Meeting, and the annual
“CCP in Dialogue with the World” meeting.
As such, the ILD performs extremely important roles overseas and is a key—but
underappreciated and even unknown—instrument in China’s international influence
activities.
Appendix 1
141
The State Council Information Office/External Propaganda Leading Group
The State Council Information Office/External Propaganda Leading Group is the nerve
center and leading organ in the sprawling system of China’s international propaganda
( 对外外宣 ) work. It maps out the entirety of China’s overseas “publicity” work, assigns
different bureaucratic entities with specific tasks, fixes budgets for entities in this
system, and convenes yearly meetings to implement the annual external propaganda
plan ( 对外宣传计划 ). The SCIO is commonly known in Chinese both as the Guo Xin
Ban ( 国新办 ) and Wai Xuan Ban (External Propaganda Office, 外宣办 ). The reason for
the two names is because it straddles two bureaucratic systems—the party and the
state. It is formally under the State Council, but it is also overseen by the Chinese
Communist Party’s External Propaganda Leading Group (or EPLG). This bureaucratic
duality is what the Chinese describe as “one organ, two signboards” ( 一个机构两块牌子 ),
a reference to the white placards that hang outside the gates of all Chinese institutions
(in this case giving the appearance of two different institutions, but in reality with
only one inside). As such, the SCIO is the administrative office for the EPLG, playing
a coordinating role in the media area similar to that performed by the Central Foreign
Affairs Office (CFAO, 中央外办 ) for the Foreign Affairs Commission ( 中央外事委员会 ).
NOTES
1 ​This body was upgraded from Leading Small Group status in March 2018.
2 ​These plans are normally classified and only circulated within the Chinese bureaucracies, but
occasionally they find their way into the public domain. See, for example, State Council Information Office.
“Summary of China’s External Propaganda Work in 2013” [ 中国对外宣传工作 2013 年综述 ]. Chinese Academy
of Social Sciences Journalism Institute (ed.). China Journalism Yearbook [ 中国新闻年鉴 2014]. Beijing:
Zhongguo Shehui Kexue Chubanshe. 2014. 63–66.
3 ​See Bowe, Alexander. “China’s Overseas United Front Work: Background and Implications for the United
States.” US-China Economic & Security Review Commission. August 24, 2018; Kynge, James, et al. “Inside
China’s Secret ‘Magic Weapon’ for Worldwide Influence.” Financial Times. 26 Oct. 2017, http://www​.ft​.com​
/content​/fb2b3934​-b004​-11e7​-beba​-5521c713abf4​. ; Brady, Anne-Marie. “Magic Weapons: China’s Political
Influence Activities under Xi Jinping.” Wilson Center Kissinger Institute on China and the United States.
September 18, 2017. https://www​.wilsoncenter​.org​/article​/magic​-weapons​-chinas​-political​-influence​
- activities​- under​- xi​- jinping.
Appendix 1

143
Appendix 1
144
Appendix 1
APPENDIX 2
Chinese Influence Activities in
Select Countries
This report has focused on the range of challenges the United States faces in an era
of accelerating Chinese influence activities on multiple fronts. But this issue is hardly
unique to the United States—indeed, China’s influence activities now occur all around
the world. In some instances, notably Australia, these activities appear to have proceeded
much further than they have so far in the United States. In general, they seem more
advanced in Asia and Europe, but there is also evidence of such activities in Africa and
Latin America as well.
In order to explore some of the wider patterns that have emerged, this appendix offers
brief summaries of the effects of such activities in eight countries: Australia, Canada,
France, Germany, Japan, New Zealand, Singapore, and the United Kingdom. In each
of these settings, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) has refined its efforts through
trial and error in order to exploit a critical asymmetry: China’s Communist party-state
has established barriers to external political influence at home while, at the same time,
seizing upon the openness of democratic systems overseas.
China seeks to make itself more palatable to democratic societies by using many of
the customary vehicles of soft power—such as state-funded research centers, media
outlets, university ties, and people-to-people exchange programs. These programs
mimic the work of independent civil society institutions in a democracy, cloaking
the extent to which the party-state controls these activities and genuine civil society
is tightly repressed inside China. In conjunction with the dramatic expansion of
Chinese economic interests abroad, the Chinese government has focused its influence
initiatives on obscuring its policies and suppressing, to the extent possible, voices
beyond China’s borders that are critical of the CCP. 1 Targeting the media, academia,
and the policy community, Beijing seeks to penetrate institutions in democratic states
that might draw attention or raise obstacles to CCP interests, creating disincentives for
any such resistance. Chinese economic activity is another important tool in this effort.
Beijing is particularly skilled at using economic leverage to advance political goals in
the realm of ideas, working through indirect channels that are not always apparent
unless one examines Chinese business activities in conjunction with Beijing’s other
influence efforts.
146
Democracies worldwide are reckoning with the impact of “sharp power.” 2 From Central
Europe, where China has created the “16 + 1 Initiative,” to sub-Saharan Africa and
Latin America, where Chinese engagement in infrastructure and the media has grown
discernibly in recent years, China’s sharp power has come into view. A good deal more
study is needed to understand the impact of these influence activities globally. Only
with such understanding and comparative case studies can democratic societies craft
responses that safeguard the integrity of their institutions while staying true to liberal
democratic values.
NOTES
1 ​Sarah Cook, “The Long Shadow of Chinese Censorship: How the Communist Party’s Media Restrictions
Affect News Outlets Around the World,” Center for International Media Assistance, October 22, 2013,
accessed October 11, 2018, http://www​.cima​.ned​.org​/wp​-content​/uploads​/2015​/02​/CIMA​-China​_Sarah%20
Cook​.pdf.
2 ​Juan Pablo Cardenal, Jacek Kucharczyk, Grigorij Mesežnikov, and Gabriela Pleschová, Sharp Power:
Rising Authoritarian Influence (Washington, DC: National Endowment for Democracy, December 2017),
accessed October 11, 2018, https://www​.ned​.org​/wp​-content​/uploads​/2017​/12​/Sharp​-Power​-Rising​
- Authoritarian​- Influence​- Full​- Report​. pdf.
AUSTRALIA
Australian journalists, scholars, officials, and political leaders have found themselves
on the frontlines of a global debate on how the Chinese Communist Party is working
to covertly manipulate the political processes of democracies around the world. The
Australian government has been the first to formulate a coherent and principled policy
response. These efforts have had a catalyzing international impact. Randall Schriver,
the Pentagon’s senior official for Asia, said Australia has “woken up people in a lot of
countries to take a look at Chinese activity within their own borders.” 1 Hillary Clinton,
the former New York senator and presidential candidate, said Australia (together
with New Zealand) has sounded the alarm on “a new global battle.” 2 Government
leaders in New Zealand, Canada, and the United Kingdom have all been paying close
attention to these growing Chinese activities. And yet, despite leading the way, effective
implementation is far from assured in Australia. Sustaining a counter-interference
strategy against the CCP—with its unrivalled resources and organization—will require
an unprecedented degree of policy fortitude and political strategy from Australian
political leaders on both sides of the parliamentary aisle as well as the support of
business leaders and the general public.
The Australia conversation has mostly been led by enterprising journalists and aided
by a handful of sinologists. It has been a healthy catalytic process in which security
agencies have been communicating warnings to institutions at risk and politicians
Appendix 2
147
have been taking security agencies and credible media investigations seriously. The
director-general of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization, Duncan Lewis,
said the espionage and interference threat is greater now than at any time during
the Cold War due to a greater number of foreign intelligence actors and the advent
of cybertechnologies. He said foreign interference activities range from “a foreign
power using local Australians to observe and harass its diaspora community here in
our country through to the recruitment and co-opting of influential and powerful
Australian voices to lobby our decision-makers.” 3
Much of the debate—particularly in its early stages—has been anchored in the
community of Chinese Australians. Ethnic Chinese writers, entrepreneurs, and
activists led the way in drawing the nation’s attention to the party’s efforts
to suppress the diversity of their opinions through surveillance, coercion, and co-option.
In 2005, Chinese defector Chen Yonglin exposed an enormous informant network
that kept tabs on Chinese Australians, including Falun Gong practitioners, who
defied the party line. In 2008, thousands of red flag-waving students were mobilized
to march on Canberra’s Parliament to “defend the sacred Olympic torch” against
pro-Tibet and other protestors as the torch wound its way to the Olympic ceremony
in Beijing. 4 More recently, Chinese Australian journalists have laid a foundation
of investigative reporting on the Chinese Communist Party’s concealed links
to Australian politics. Philip Wen, Beijing correspondent for the Sydney Morning
Herald, showed how the party was “astroturfing” grassroots political movements
to give the impression of ethnic Chinese support for Beijing’s policies and leaders
and to drown out its opponents. Over the past two years, Australian investigative
journalists have documented a series of examples of Beijing-linked political donors
buying access and influence, universities being co-opted as “propaganda vehicles,”
and Australian-funded scientific research being diverted to aid the modernization of
the People’s Liberation Army (PLA). Some of those reports showed how the CCP was
using tools of coercion and co-option to manipulate deliberations of the Australian
Parliament.
In 2017, CCP interference in Australian democratic processes became so brazen that
party officials began to use their capability for interference as diplomatic leverage. The
targets were bipartisan. The CCP reportedly leveraged the fact of its arbitrary power
over Australian prisoners in China as it sought to persuade the Malcolm Turnbull
government to ratify a controversial extradition treaty. 5 And Meng Jianzhu, then
China’s minister of public security, warned the Labor opposition leadership about the
electoral consequences of failing to endorse the treaty. According to the Australian
newspaper: “Mr. Meng said it would be a shame if Chinese government representatives
had to tell the Chinese community in Australia that Labor did not support the relationship
between Australia and China.” 6
Appendix 2
148
In June 2017, a joint investigation by the Australian Broadcasting Corporation and
Fairfax Media revealed that the Australian Security Intelligence Organization (ASIO)
had warned the major political parties that two of Australia’s most generous political
donors had “strong connections to the Chinese Communist Party” and that their
“donations might come with strings attached.” 7 One of them leveraged a $400,000
donation in an attempt to soften the Labor Party line on the South China Sea. Most
notoriously, an ambitious young Labor senator, Sam Dastyari, was shown to have
recited Beijing’s South China Sea talking points almost word-for-word immediately
after the political donor had threatened to withdraw his money. Dastyari was also
shown to have given countersurveillance advice to the donor. As a result of these
actions, Dastyari was forced to resign from Parliament. Again, the CCP was shown to
be working both sides of the political aisle. The Liberal trade minister, Andrew Robb,
was shown to have stepped directly from office into a consultancy job to the CCPlinked
company that bought a controversial lease for the Port of Darwin. The contract
showed Robb to be earning 880,000 Australian dollars per year (more than 600,000 US
dollars plus goods and services tax) for unspecified services. 8
Response and Counterresponse
In December 2017, as the political attacks on Dastyari came to a head, Prime Minister
Turnbull revealed that his coalition government had been “galvanized” by a classified
report into foreign interference which he had commissioned in August 2016. Turnbull
unveiled a new counter-foreign-interference strategy which he said would be shaped
by four principles. First, the strategy would target the activities of foreign states
and not the loyalties of foreign-born Australians. As Turnbull put it, “Our diaspora
communities are part of the solution, not the problem.” Second, the strategy would be
country-agnostic and not single out Chinese interference. Third, it would distinguish
conduct that is “covert, coercive, or corrupting” from legitimate and transparent public
diplomacy. And fourth, it would be built upon the pillars of “sunlight, enforcement,
deterrence, and capability.” 9
At the same time, the prime minister introduced sweeping new legislation into
Parliament. One bill introduced a wide-reaching ban on foreign political donations,
including measures to prevent foreigners from channeling donations through
local entities. 10 A second bill imposed disclosure obligations for those working in
Australian politics on behalf of a foreign principal. This bill would capture many of
the indirect methodologies of CCP intelligence and United Front Work Department
(UFWD) operations that are not caught by the US Foreign Agents Registration
Act. And a third tranche of legislation would close some large loopholes in the
Australian criminal law by introducing tough but graduated political interference
and espionage offenses.
Appendix 2
149
Turnbull also introduced legislation to establish a new Department of Home Affairs
which, among other roles, would house a national counter-foreign-interference
coordinator who would integrate intelligence and enforcement and coordinate policy
development. On December 16, 2017, at the height of this debate—and days after
Turnbull introduced the new laws—the coalition government passed a serious electoral
test by winning a by-election in the Sydney seat of Bennelong. According to one
opinion poll, two-thirds of voters support the foreign interference legislation, with just
11 percent opposed—in a seat that has one of the largest ethnic Chinese communities
in the country.
And yet, despite this policy progress, strong evidence of electoral support, and
favorable international recognition, the Turnbull government found the politics and
the diplomacy to be heavy going. At one level this is not surprising. The CCP excels in
using covert and deceptive means to work preexisting fault lines of open, democratic
societies. It has shown itself prepared to use the levers of economic engagement as a
tool of political coercion. And there is no precedent for a mid-sized, open, multicultural
nation standing its ground against a rising authoritarian superpower that accounts for a
large proportion of its migrants and one in every three of its export dollars.
After seizing the political and policy initiative in 2017, the Turnbull government went
quiet over the first half of 2018. It faced pushback from powerful domestic lobbying
groups arguing that the proposed legislation went too far. Media firms targeted the
espionage law, charities the donations law, and universities the proposed transparency
law. Further resistance was mounted by multicultural lobbyists who maintained that
Australia’s reputation as an inclusive society was challenged by mention of foreign
government interference in community affairs. Prominent business leaders and
academics with China contracts called for an end to “China-bashing.”
China’s embassy in Canberra also played a part, publicly intervening as if it were
a champion of Chinese Australian communities to confront “racist bigotry” in
Australia. China’s government consistently portrayed the counter-interference policies
and conversation as an attack on “China” and “Chinese people.” And Beijing framed
Canberra’s efforts to defend its institutions as an attack on the bilateral relationship. As if
to confirm its own judgment, Beijing was reported to have frozen ministerial and official
meetings across a range of key portfolios. In the ensuing silence, some of the CCP’s most
potent narratives filled the vacuum. It was not clear that the Turnbull government could
push through the most significant overhaul of counterintelligence legislation in forty
years without explaining why it was necessary.
It took a series of further explosive media investigations and some unorthodox political
interventions to regain control of the conversation and ensure bipartisan support for the
Appendix 2
150
legislation. The chair of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Intelligence & Security,
Andrew Hastie, named one of Australia’s most generous political donors as a “coconspirator”
in a UN bribery investigation and linked the affair to covert interference.
“In Australia it is clear that the Chinese Communist Party is working to covertly
interfere with our media and universities and also to influence our political processes
and public debates,” Hastie told his committee, after receiving support from the deputy
chair, Anthony Byrne. “And it’s time we applied sunlight to our political system and a
person who has featured prominently in Australian politics over the past decade.” 11
The counter-interference criminal legislation and the foreign influence transparency
scheme both passed through Parliament on June 28. The Home Affairs legislation had
passed through Parliament earlier in the year, with the counter-foreign-interference
task force established in April 2018. This effectively elevated the importance of
countering foreign interference to a similar status as countering terrorism. 12 At the time
of writing, the legislation to ban foreign political donations has not passed through
Parliament. And Turnbull himself has been replaced as prime minister. The new prime
minister, Scott Morrison, appears to have opted for policy continuity.
The Turnbull government led the way in diagnosing the challenge, forging an internal
consensus, and setting out a bold and coherent counterstrategy. Australia became the
first country in the world to lay the foundations for a sustained and coherent counterinterference
strategy.
But if Australia is going to reset the terms of its engagement with a superpower—holding
China to its principle of noninterference and setting a precedent of sovereign equality
that others might follow—then it will have to accept strains on the bilateral relationship.
If the government is to successfully implement a transformational strategy to defend
Australia’s democratic processes and social cohesion, then it has to find politically
sustainable ways of engaging the democratic process and publicly making the case.
NOTES
1 ​Peter Hartcher, “Australia Has ‘Woken Up’ the World on China’s Influence: US Official,” Sydney Morning
Herald, February 27, 2018, accessed October 11, 2018, https://www​.smh​.com​.au​/politics​/federal​/australia​
- has​- woken​- up​- the​- world​- on​- china​- s​- influence​- us​- official​- 20180226​- p4z1un​. html.
2 ​Ben Doherty and Eleanor Ainge Roy, “Hillary Clinton Says China’s Foreign Power Grab ‘A New Global
Battle,’ ” Guardian (UK), May 8, 2018, accessed October 11, 2018, https://www​. theguardian​. com​/ us​-news​
/ 2018​/ may​/ 08​/ hillary​- clinton​- says​- chinas​- foreign​- power​- grab​- a​- new​- global​- battle.
3 ​“Advisory Report on the National Security Legislation Amendment,” Parliament of Australia, June 7, 2018,
accessed October 11, 2018, https://www​.aph​.gov​.au​/Parliamentary​_Business​/Committees​/Joint​/Intelligence​
_and​_Security​/EspionageFInterference​/Report​/section​?id​= ​committees%2Freportjnt%2F024152%2F25708.
4 ​Rob Taylor, “Chinese Rally in Australia to Guard Olympic Flame,” Reuters, April 15, 2008, accessed
October 11, 2018, https://www​.reuters​.com​/article​/idUSSYD3301.
Appendix 2
151
5 ​Greg Sheridan, “Malcolm Turnbull’s Chinese Double: Dishonour and Defeat,” Australian (New South Wales),
March 30, 2017 (requires subscription), https://www​.theaustralian​.com​.au​/opinion​/columnists​/greg​-sheridan​
/turnbulls​-chinese​-double-dishonour-and-defeat/news-story/55fbe920041a5f5ff7ec04b818085631.
6 ​Primrose Riordan, “China’s Veiled Threat to Bill Shorten on Extradition Treaty,” Australian (New South Wales),
December 4, 2017 (requires subscription), https://www​.theaustralian​.com​.au​/national​-affairs​/foreign​-affairs​
/chinas​-veiled​-threat​-to​-bill​-shorten​-on​-extradition​-treaty​/news​-story​/ad793a4366ad2f94694e89c92d52a978.
7 ​“Power and Influence: The Hard Edge of China’s Soft Power,” Australian Broadcasting Corporation,
June 5, 2017, expires December 7, 2018, accessed October 11, 2018, http://www​.abc​.net​.au​/4corners​/power​
- and​- influence​- promo​/ 8579844.
8 ​Nick McKenzie and James Massola, “Andrew Robb’s Secret China Contract: Money for Nothing,” Sydney
Morning Herald, December 6, 2017, accessed October 11, 2018, https://www​.smh​.com​.au​/politics​/federal​
/ andrew​- robbs​- secret​- china​- contract​- money​- for​- nothing​- 20171205​- gzzaq5​. html.
9 ​Malcolm Turnbull, “Speech Introducing the National Security Legislation Amendment (Espionage and
Foreign Interference) Bill 2017,” December 7, 2017, accessed October 11, 2018, https:// www​. malcolmturnbull​
.com​.au​/media​/speech​-introducing​-the​-national​-security​-legislation​-amendment​-espionage​-an.
10 The debate in Australia has evolved considerably since 2009, when Prime Minister Kevin Rudd proposed
campaign finance reform legislation that would have rendered foreign-sourced political donations illegal,
and Turnbull (as opposition leader in parliament) declined to support the legislation. Rudd has argued that
this legislation would have mitigated some of the more problematic behaviors regarding foreign influence
that have since occurred. Others, however, maintain that the ban would not have stopped the bulk of
CCP-backed donations, which are channeled through Australian residents and citizens, and that the more
important reform was to ensure greater transparency in identifying foreign agents. For Rudd’s critique, see
his February 24, 2018 column in the Australian, http://kevinrudd.com/portfolio-item/kevin-rudd-writes-inthe-australian-chairman-mals-new-mccarthyism.
11 ​Simon Benson, “Chau Chak Wing Identified by FBI in UN Bribery Case, Andrew Hastie Says,” Australian
(New South Wales), May 23, 2018, accessed October 11, 2018, https://www​.theaustralian​.com​.au​/national​
- affairs​/ chau​- chak​- wing​- identified​- by​- fbi​- in​- un​- bribery​- case​- andrew​- hastie​- says​/ news​- story​/ e062198e1d
3d7ec76b3a7a394c3b2543.
12 ​Simon Benson, “Crack Unit to Ward off Spy Attacks,” Australian (New South Wales), April 25, 2018
(subscription required), https:// www​. theaustralian​. com​. au​/ national​- affairs/ national-security/crack-unit
-to-ward-off-threats-from-espionage/news-story/8409b24c8595bee1bc27e9927f05fbd5.
CANADA
Canada has a long history of engagement with the PRC dating back to 1970.
Substantial and rapidly expanding connections with China at multiple levels include
human flows (migrants, tourists, students), trade (with a major and recurring
imbalance in China’s favor), and diplomatic interactions. There are roughly
160,000 PRC students in Canadian schools, about 70 percent of them in universities
and colleges. Per capita, this is about three times as large as in the United States and
roughly on par with Australia.
Canadian experiences with Chinese interference are less intense than those documented
in Australia and New Zealand. As early as 1997, a leaked report by Canada’s RCMP-SIS
Appendix 2
152
(the Security Intelligence Service of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police) identified
improper influence through community associations connected to Chinese intelligence
agencies and efforts to award politically connected Canadians in high-level roles with
Chinese entities. 1 Today, the view in Ottawa is that China is definitely trying to influence
Canadian opinion and opinion-makers but is not making much headway at present. At
the federal level, the greatest concern with China has to do with the acquisition, often by
legal means, of strategic Canadian assets such as oil sands or major companies.
As in other countries, Chinese state actors (the CCP International Liaison Department,
commercial entities, media) have targeted political parties and politicians (with a few
ongoing cases at the provincial and municipal levels that are being investigated by the
RCMP), civil society (through Confucius Institutes and consular outreach), and academia
(through the Chinese Students’ Association, China Scholarship Council supervision of
student recipients, and pressure on Canadian China specialists). An informal survey
of Canadian China professionals (political and business actors) and China specialists
(research professionals) confirms some PRC state activity in all these realms. But no cases
have yet reached the intensity or threat documented in Australia and New Zealand.
In large part, this difference in intensity is due to material factors: Canada is less
dependent economically on China than Australia and New Zealand but smaller and
less powerful than the United States. In short, while facing similar influence and
interference efforts from China, Canada—like the United States—appears to have more
effective mechanisms (diplomacy, election funding transparency, foreign investment
regulations) than Australia and New Zealand. Indeed, in May 2018 Canada’s security
service produced a report warning of the extent of interference in New Zealand. 2
Politics
The Liberal government elected in October 2015 is inclined to expand relations
with China at the diplomatic and commercial levels, including with some form of
bilateral free trade agreement and deeper cooperation on global issues like climate
change, counterterrorism, and peacekeeping. Yet, despite Asia’s rising geoeconomic
and geopolitical weight, Canada’s strategic center of gravity remains heavily tied to
the United States and the transatlantic world and to Western perspectives. There are
significant disagreements in the public and within government about the possibilities,
opportunities, limits, and risks of a deeper relationship with China.
Media reports highlighting concerns over improper interference include the following:
• In 2010, the director of CSIS, Canada’s national security agency, said at least
two provincial cabinet members and other government officials were under the
Appendix 2
153
control of foreign countries (including China). 3 Facing political pressure, he later
said none of the actions were “illegal” and that “foreign interference is a common
occurrence in many countries around the world and has been for decades.” 4
• In 2016, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau was a subject of controversy for his
attendance at cash-for-access dinners. 5 Among the attendees were Chinese billionaire
Zhang Bin, who donated $1 million to the Pierre Elliott Trudeau Foundation. Also
at the dinner was Liu Meng, a CCP official who was opening a Chinese Chamber of
Commerce, a common United Front organization, in the country.
• In 2017, a Conservative member of Parliament was denied a visa to visit China
because she intended to raise questions about human rights. 6
• In October 2017, the Financial Times acquired a United Front teaching manual
which praised the success of overseas Chinese candidates in Toronto elections,
writing, “We should aim to work with those individuals and groups that are
at a relatively high level, operate within the mainstream of society and have
prospects for advancement.” 7
• In December 2017, the Globe and Mail reported that two Conservative senators
had set up a private consulting business with the intent of attracting Chinese
investment to Newfoundland and Labrador. 8 The paper also reported that the
Senate’s ethics watchdog was investigating an all-expenses-paid trip to China
by three Conservative senators, including one involved in the consulting
company. 9 (The paper had previously reported on thirty-six trips to China
funded by arms of the Chinese government or business groups. 10 )
• In December 2017, Conservative senator Linda Frum called for an investigation
into improper influence in Canada. 11 She alleged that laws banning direct foreign
donations to political parties are sufficiently robust, but third-party groups—so
long as they receive funds six months prior to the election—can use foreign
money to influence voters.
Civil Society
In 2016, the New York Times reported about pressure on independent Chinese-language
media in Canada. 12 In January 2018, a coalition led by Amnesty International submitted
a confidential report to the Canadian government detailing harassment and digital
disinformation campaigns and direct threats against Uyghurs, Tibetans, Taiwanese,
democracy advocates, and members of Falun Gong. 13
Appendix 2
154
Business
One of the emerging debates in Canada concerns the future of China’s telecom giant,
Huawei, which is widely believed to have links with China’s People’s Liberation Army.
Huawei has little significant business in the United States and was recently banned from
participating in Australia’s 5G wireless network project. Now Canada is debating that
issue, despite the fact that the firm has established a vast network of relationships with
all of Canada’s major telecom carriers and Canada’s leading research universities. Two
former directors of the Canadian Security Intelligence Service—Richard Fadden and
Ward Elcock—as well as John Adams, the former head of the Communications Security
Establishment (CSE), told the Globe and Mail in August that Canada should also ban
Huawei from supplying equipment for a 5G network. 14
Universities
An example from academia suggests the efficacy of Canadian efforts to combat China’s
influence operations. At one West Coast Canadian university with large numbers of
students from the PRC in undergraduate humanities and social science courses, where
potentially divergent views of China and Chinese political behavior regularly form
part of the curriculum, there has been no observation of the pressures documented
in Australia, where professors are often openly criticized by Chinese students for
proposing less flattering ways of looking at China. However, at that university’s forprofit
“international transition program,” which offers international students who
did not qualify for admission the chance (for a fee) to prepare to meet entrance
requirements, university administrators have generally failed to integrate the students
who are overwhelmingly PRC Chinese with poor English ability into the broader
campus community. The result is that, even without PRC consular pressure, there is a
strong pro-PRC culture of “political correctness” that conforms to United Front goals
without the effort to promote it. It appears that social isolation is the driving factor in
this case.
Conclusion
Much of China’s influence activities in Canada are a legitimate extension of the
public diplomacy in which all nations engage. The pressing issue is when and where
China crosses the line between influence and interference. Canadian experience so
far suggests more influence work than interference. However, there are clear examples
where such influence has become interference. So far, it would appear that the key
variable for the relatively low impact of Chinese state efforts (or proxies) turns out to
be Canadian practice more than Chinese state efforts. That is, the internal diversity
of the Canadian Chinese community blunts political efforts by any one political
party (including the CCP). More generally, Canadian practices of multiculturalism,
Appendix 2
155
transparency, campaign financing rules, business regulation, and academic integrity
are cultivated and fairly robust.
These experiences suggest the following solutions or best practices in the Canadian
case, which largely parallel the broader report’s findings:
• Make clear public statements of Canadian values—political, economic, social, and
academic.
• Insist on reciprocity with Chinese actors in each domain of engagement.
• Identify what harms Canadian state, social, and community interests.
• Strengthen the practice of Canadian values of multiculturalism, open society, and
integration.
• Share experiences in each sector to build capacity and promote best practices,
particularly engaging the Canadian Chinese community.
• Train and make use of area specialists to better understand PRC intentions (just as
the PRC relies on “Western” specialists).
NOTES
1 ​“Chinese Intelligence Services and Triads Financial Links in Canada,” Royal Canadian Mounted Police and
Canadian Security Intelligence Service, June 24, 1997, accessed October 11, 2018, http:// www​. jrnyquist​
. com​/ sidewinder​. htm.
2 ​Steven Chase and Robert Fife, “CSIS Report Warns of Chinese Interference in New Zealand,” Globe and
Mail (Toronto), May 31, 2018, accessed October 11, 2018, https://www​.theglobeandmail​.com​/politics​/article​
- csis​- report​- warns​- of​- chinese​- interference​- in​- new​- zealand.
3 ​Sarah Boesveld, “Government Infiltrated by Spies, CSIS Boss Says,” Globe and Mail (Toronto), May 1, 2018,
accessed October 11, 2018, https://www​.theglobeandmail​.com​/news​/politics​/government​-infiltrated​-by​
- spies​- csis​- boss​- says​/ article4392618.
4 ​Petti Fong, “CSIS Head Backtracks on Allegations of Foreign Influence over Canadian Officials,” Star
(Toronto), June 23, 2010, accessed October 11, 2018, https://www​.thestar​.com​/news​/canada​/2010​/06​/23​
/ csis​_ head​_ backtracks​_ on​_ allegations​_ of​_ foreign​_ influence​_ over​_ canadian​_ officials​. html.
5 ​Robert Fife and Steven Chase, “Trudeau Attended Cash-for-access Fundraiser with Chinese
Billionaires,” Globe and Mail (Toronto), April 7, 2017, accessed October 11, 2018, https:// www​. the​
globeandmail​. com​/ news​/ politics​/ trudeau​- attended​- cash​- for​- access​- fundraiser​- with​- chinese​
- billionaires​/ article32971362.
6 ​Joanna Smith, “Candice Bergen: China Denied My Travel Visa, Liberals Were No Help,” Canadian Press,
September 29, 2017, accessed October 11, 2018, http://www​.cbc​.ca​/news​/politics​/china​-travel​-visa​-bergen​
- 1​. 4314000.
Appendix 2
156
7 ​James Kynge, Lucy Hornby, and Jamil Anderlini, “Inside China’s Secret ‘Magic Weapon’ for Worldwide
Influence,” Financial Times (London), October 26, 2017, accessed October 11, 2018, https:// www​. ft​. com​
/ content​/ fb2b3934​- b004​- 11e7​- beba​- 5521c713abf4.
8 ​Robert Fife and Steven Chase, “Two Conservative Senators’ Business Venture Linked to China,” Globe and
Mail (Toronto), December 15, 2017, accessed October 11, 2018, https://www​.theglobeandmail​.com​/news​
/politics​/two​-conservative​-senators​-business​-venture​-linked​-to​-china​/article37340503.
9 ​Robert Fife, Steven Chase, and Xiao Xu, “Senate Ethics Watchdog Probes China Trip by Three
Conservative Senators,” Globe and Mail (Toronto), December 7, 2017, accessed October 11, 2018,
https:// www​. theglobeandmail​. com​/ news​/ politics​/ senate​- ethics​- watchdog​- probes​- china​- trip​- by​- three​
- conservative​-senators/article37232605.
10 ​Robert Fife, Steven Chase, and Xiao Xu, “Beijing Foots Bill for Canadian Senators, MPs to Visit China,”
Globe and Mail (Toronto), December 1, 2017, accessed October 11, 2018, https:// www​. theglobeandmail​. com​
/ news​/ politics​/ beijing​- foots​- bill​- for​- visits​- to​- china​- by​- canadian​- senators​- mps​/ article37162592.
11 ​Terry Glavin, “Glavin: Learn from Australia—We Should Beware of Chinese Influence-peddling,”
Ottawa (Ontario) Citizen, December 13, 2017, accessed October 11, 2018, http:// ottawacitizen​. com​/ opinion​
/ columnists​/ glavin​- learn​- from​- australia​- we​- should​- beware​- of​- chinese​- influence​- peddling.
12 ​Dan Levin, “Chinese-Canadians Fear China’s Rising Clout Is Muzzling Them,” New York Times, August 27,
2016, accessed October 11, 2018, https://www​.nytimes​.com​/2016​/08​/28​/world​/americas​/chinese​
- canadians​- china​- speech​. html.
13 ​Tom Blackwell, “ ‘Don’t Step Out of Line’: Confidential Report Reveals How Chinese Officials Harass
Activists in Canada,” National Post (Toronto), January 5, 2018, accessed October 11, 2018, https://
nationalpost​. com​/ news​/ world​/ confidential​- report​- reveals​- how​- chinese​- officials​- harass​- activists​- in​
- canada​- there​- is​- a​- consistent​- pattern.
14 ​Robert Fife, Steven Chase, and Ian Bailey, “Trudeau Won’t Say If Canada Will Follow Australia, US in
Blocking Huawei from Big Projects,” Globe and Mail (Toronto), August 28, 2018, https:// www​. theglobeandmail​
.com​/politics​/article​-pm​-trudeau​-hazy​-on​-whether​-canada​-will​-join​-allies​-to​-ban​-chinas​.
FRANCE
France is the Western European country with the most favorable disposition toward
China historically, dating back to the establishment of diplomatic relations in 1964.
Yet, it is also the EU country where public opinion toward China is the most negative,
overtaking Italy in 2017. As in other countries, it is difficult to distinguish between the
voluntary exposure to influence by French seeking to benefit from China’s rise and
active efforts by Beijing to exploit French vulnerabilities.
Both the Left and Right in France have supported close ties with China. The dual
nature of these ties differs from other European countries where for the most part
the Left has been critical of US policy in Asia and supportive of China and Vietnam.
In France’s case, it was the Right, under Charles de Gaulle, which recognized China
in January 1964 and criticized US policy during the Vietnam War. So, for example, in
January 2014, an all-night celebration for the fiftieth anniversary of the recognition
was held in Paris with funding largely from major French firms operating in China.
Appendix 2
157
But it also means that French state television of the 1960s often aired views favorable
to the Cultural Revolution, while Maoism was influential inside the radical Left.
French diplomacy also has had its “China school,” with leading figures such as Etienne
Manach (a historical Gaullist) and Claude Martin (who recently published his memoirs
under a title lifted creatively from a saying by Chairman Mao, “La diplomatie n’est pas
un dîner de gala” or “Diplomacy is not a dinner party”).
Still, the shift in public opinion has been equally notable. Simon Leys wrote in French
and spawned a critical tradition inside French sinology. The 1989 Tiananmen Square
crackdown and a demonstration condoned by the French government on the eve of the
G-7 Versailles Summit created a lasting row with the PRC (to which arms sales to Taiwan
in the early 1990s can be traced). President Nicolas Sarkozy’s stand on Tibet around the
2008 Olympics kindled an even more severe controversy with China, one which also left
a trace inside French officialdom. Although diplomatic relations would be normalized
in ensuing years, this marked the beginning of a rebalancing of France’s foreign policy
in Asia. Today, France is a leading arms provider to Australia, Malaysia, Vietnam, India,
Singapore, and—to a lesser degree—Japan. It is the leading country—and one of only
two EU countries—participating in freedom of navigation naval operations in the South
China Sea, albeit with more limited objectives than the United States. It has also taken
the lead, with Germany and Italy, in calling for investment screening by the EU, a move
that clearly targets Chinese attempts to obtain European high technology.
Diaspora
The Chinese diaspora in France is the largest in Europe, estimated to be between
six hundred thousand and one million. Exact figures are not known as ethnic or
religious censuses are banned in France. The diaspora is not only large but diverse,
including Hoa refugees from Indochina arriving in the late 1970s, Wenzhou
immigrants, Dongbei workers, and, more recently, students and affluent Chinese.
Wenzhou immigrants are notably apolitical, while Dongbei (northeast) people are
closer to PRC traditions. Very few influential French of Chinese origins come from
either of these two groups.
The PRC embassy in Paris and consulates in Marseilles and Strasbourg have increased
China’s outreach to the various Chinese communities in recent years. Notably, actions
were taken to encouraging and mobilizing counterdemonstrations (largely from the
student community) in Paris during the 2008 Olympics row and by exploiting the issue
of crime against Asians (tourists or residents). In 2016, the death of a Chinese resident
at the hands of the police spawned a very sudden and publicly condoned reaction
in China itself, an echo and perhaps a reminder of the 2008 Olympics row. The PRC
also has consulates in French Polynesia and on Reunion Island, with activities more
directed to communities of Chinese origin that reside there.
Appendix 2
158
Public figures from the second or third generation of immigrants are emerging
slowly. The traditionally anticommunist sentiment in Paris’s thirteenth district,
populated by former refugees, has all but disappeared. The district’s Socialist Party
MP, a former advocate of Taiwan, switched his sympathies to the PRC before leaving
politics in 2017. While France has always seen itself as a melting pot society—where
even native languages dissolved over a generation—the economic attraction of China
is clearly felt.
Police and judicial cooperation have also become an issue. In 2017, for the first time, a
PRC citizen accused of corruption was extradited back to China; no public assurances
were given regarding a possible death penalty. Another case erupted when Chinese
public security officials made an unannounced visit to France to pressure a resident to
return home and face charges.
Politics
For decades, China’s National Day reception has been the most sought-after
diplomatic reception in France, with queues often backing into the street. China’s
diplomatic buildings have in fact sprouted up around Paris, sometimes acquired
from French government sites on sale. China has cultivated a stable of former French
politicians. Of particular interest to China is former prime minister Dominique
de Villepin, who is a frequent visitor to the country. He has regularly made
positive remarks to Chinese state media and at other fora regarding the Belt and
Road Initiative (BRI) and Chinese cooperation with the EU. In 2018, he became
a distinguished professor at China Europe International Business School and now
heads its advisory board.
Civil Society
A new generation of NGOs linking French and PRC members and sponsors has
emerged, complementing the traditional role of business. Most prominent is the
France-China Foundation, guided by an active French diplomat and presided over by
current prime minister Edouard Philippe. With prominent PRC businessmen (such
as Jack Ma) as cosponsors and old or new members of the French establishment (e.g.,
former prime minister Laurent Fabius and Cedric Villani, prominent mathematician
and an MP since 2017), the foundation hosts social events, including at the Château
de Versailles. Its strongest activity is a Young Leaders program that is patterned after
the traditional Fondation France-Amérique. Other organizations include the Fondation
Prospective et Innovation, headed by Jean-Pierre Raffarin, which awards a Wu Jianmin
scholarship named after a former Chinese ambassador to France.
Appendix 2
159
Business
France maintains a negative trade balance with China and Chinese companies have
not invested much in France compared to what they’ve poured into Germany, Italy,
and the United Kingdom. Chinese investors reduced investments during the 2016–17
presidential campaign and have also met with informal refusals in some cases, such
as Areva, the French nuclear company. The Chinese domestic market is set to save
France’s dairy industry, even creating a temporary shortage of butter for the first time
since 1945. Still, complaints over too many purchases—or too many tourists, for that
matter–—are drowned out by the profits involved.
In mainland France, the Comité France-Chine of MEDEF, the French business union,
has always been a prominent link, usually spearheaded by a prominent former French
political figure (from Raymond Barre to Valéry Giscard d’Estaing and Jean-Pierre
Raffarin). A separate French-Chinese investment fund has also been created, headed by
a former senior official in the treasury department.
Until very recently, Sino-French activities were largely financed by major French firms
operating in China, with EDF, the semipublic electricity company that cooperates on
nuclear plants with China, being the most prominent. EDF has been criticized for its
transfers of technology to China, which it justifies by its contracts in China and the
United Kingdom with Chinese co-funding. This pattern of lobbying by the French
themselves may be changing. Huawei now appears as a frequent donor, including
for public conferences taking place in such prestigious locales as the French National
Assembly or Senate.
Quiet Chinese investments with ownership below the 10 percent declaratory level, as
well as in real estate, make for more diffuse influence. This is particularly true at the
local level, where Chinese investors are eagerly sought and business intermediaries
tend to mushroom. Many plans for industrial parks and regional airports have not
materialized, however. The partial takeover of the Toulouse airport (home of Airbus
and other aerospace firms) has been marred by the temporary arrest in China of the
lead Chinese investor and by a search for quick profits.
Academia
In general, French academic and scientific institutions have welcomed Chinese
students and researchers. The Commissariat à l’Energie Atomique (CEA), Ecole
Polytechnique, and the Paris Saclay cluster and science park are all active in working
with Chinese counterparts. The Paris Saclay cluster and science park has signed
agreements with Tsinghua University and its commercial and high-tech spin-offs,
Qinghua Holdings and Qinghua Unigroup. The Fondation Franco-Chinoise pour la
Appendix 2
160
Science et ses Applications, cofounded by the French and PRC Science Academies,
promotes stays in France for Chinese scientists. It does not list any Chinese sponsoring
firm. Huawei has been a major donor to the Institut des Hautes Etudes Scientifiques
(IHES), France’s famous mathematics institution. The Fondation Victor Segalen is
a partnership between a French business school, ESCP, and China’s NDRC, and is
sponsored by Huawei and a roster of French firms. Among the recent spate of Belt and
Road Initiative conferences, one at IRIS, a Paris-based think tank, was sponsored by the
PRC embassy in France.
Media
The PRC now controls the only Chinese-language print media in France. Its TV channels
(plus the Hong Kong-based Phoenix TV) are the only Chinese-language channels
carried to France and its overseas territories. In the French-language media, China does
not have a very strong position and the country’s officials deplore what they believe
is negative reporting by French reporters. The PRC has had more success with the
publishing world, where several books have appeared praising the Chinese model. The
most noted example is François Jullien, a literature professor turned philosopher who
emphasizes that China’s thought is ”perpendicular to ours.” Jullien’s work is popular
among China-oriented businessmen. Michel Aglietta, an anticapitalist economist,
promotes China’s state-driven economy, while Philippe Barret, a former Maoist activist
of the late 1960s turned government official and sovereigntist, published a book in
2018 titled “N’ayez pas peur de la Chine” (“Do not fear China”).
GERMANY
China has so far made only a few conspicuous efforts to exert improper interference
in German politics, society, and business. 1 Those that have occurred, however, deserve
attention, and, coupled with the overwhelming resources dedicated to nominally
legitimate influence activities, will demand a coherent counterstrategy over time.
Chinese influence activities in Germany seem sophisticated even though they
currently do not appear very effective. The problem from the Chinese point of view
is that German public opinion and its media are traditionally critical of the Chinese
leadership. The Tiananmen Square massacre still plays an outsize role in Germans’
public perception of China as it fell on the same year that East Germany began to
open up. Thus, instead of launching a PR campaign to play on German skepticism of
the United States (for example), as China does elsewhere, Chinese agencies have so far
confined themselves to: (a) targeting younger persons—those who have a professional
or academic interest in China; (b) weakening the EU and thus subverting a crucial
foundation of Germany’s influence; and (c) directing their major thrust at the one part
Appendix 2
161
of German society that has a clear interest in good German-Chinese relations and thus
is susceptible to Chinese influence: the business community.
While this report has focused on distinguishing legitimate influence efforts from
improper interference, it is important to acknowledge behavior that is unquestionably
illegal. Most acts of espionage have not become public knowledge. Occasionally there
are unconfirmed reports about cyber activities and Chinese IT hardware containing
devices enabling espionage. In December 2017, German authorities revealed that
Chinese agents had used faked LinkedIn identities or avatars of Germans engaged with
China to contact people in the political and media spheres.
Politics
Angela Merkel, the present chancellor, has a decidedly cool attitude toward China,
although she has established mechanisms to work closely with China over the years.
Possibly because of her experience of being raised in communist East Germany, Merkel
clearly sees the challenges presented by China to democracy and a liberal society.
Indeed, there’s an argument to be made that with the retreat of the United States
from human rights issues, Germany has taken up the mantle as the strongest critic
of China’s human rights practices. It was Merkel’s government that won the release
of Liu Xia, the widow of Nobel Peace Prize winner Liu Xiaobo. Thus, it makes sense
that the Chinese Communist Party has opted to plant a seed within the German
business elite with the hope that in a post-Merkel Germany, China’s interests would be
accommodated more than now.
Germany is also an indirect target of China’s efforts directed at the 16—1 group
in Central Europe and within the EU. Among the sixteen Central and Eastern
European countries (eleven of them EU member states) gathered in the 16—1 group,
the expectation of Chinese investment has led to laxer application of EU rules on
procurement and in some cases to opposition to joint EU criticism of China (e.g.,
concerning the South China Sea, human rights, and the Belt and Road Initiative).
Chinese “divide and rule” activities weaken the EU’s China policy and the EU’s
cohesion in general and thus affect Germany negatively. 2
There have been limited conspicuous efforts to target specific politicians for
cultivation, with two notable exceptions: former chancellor Helmut Schmidt (now
deceased) and former minister of economics Philipp Roessler. Influence activities
directed toward political parties are negligible, apart from efforts to include them in
events on the Belt and Road Initiative and the recent commemoration of forty years
of the policy of Reform and Opening. There have been some attempts to establish
relations with the new right-wing party “Alternative für Deutschland.”
Appendix 2
162
In 2016, the chair of the Human Rights Committee of the German Parliament was
told he would not be allowed to visit China with the rest of the committee if he did
not delete a report from his home page on Tibetan flags being hoisted at German town
halls. The committee refused to go on the trip.
Academia
More than one hundred thousand Chinese nationals live in Germany, most of them
students. Intense exchanges take place between universities, research institutes,
and think tanks, as well as between scholars in many areas, both natural and social
sciences. Similar to academics from other countries, several German researchers and
academics with a reputation of being critical toward the Chinese government have
been denied visas or access to interlocutors in China. China in general targets junior
scholars for cultivation. Contacts are initiated from China with invitations to join
research projects, apply for grants, attend conferences, and write articles with the
promise that they will be published.
A notable instance of coercion occurred when the publishing company Springer Nature
removed an estimated one thousand publications from its Internet catalog for China
because their titles might not coincide with official political positions of Beijing. So far,
Springer has yet to reverse its decision, unlike Cambridge University Press in a similar
instance.
German universities host twenty Confucius Institutes (out of approximately 160 in
all of Europe). Like their counterparts elsewhere, they invest more in gaining general
sympathy in German civil society through cultural activities than in advancing an
overtly political agenda (which does occur, although rarely). There are fifty-eight
Chinese Students and Scholars Associations in Germany that are well organized and
seemingly well funded.
Civil Society
Chinese officials regularly complain about the negative attitude toward China in the
German public, proven by polls, but do not yet tackle the problem directly. Activities
in the PRC by German nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and political
foundations are increasingly confined in their activities, not only through China’s
new NGO law but also because former Chinese partners are reluctant to cooperate.
In a letter to the interior ministries of German federal states, the Chinese embassy
requested that communities be asked not to hoist Tibetan flags on Tibet Day
(March 10). In some cases, ministries complied, but in the majority of cases they
did not. Almost none of the communities complied. The Chinese embassy in Berlin
Appendix 2
163
intervened with hotels where activities involving Taiwan (such as trade shows) flew
the flag of the Republic of China. Probably in view of the costs incurred by cancelling
a contract with their Taiwanese partners, the addressees in general did not comply.
In a similar incident, at the first of a series of tournaments between German third
league soccer clubs and Chinese soccer clubs, the Chinese coach demanded that
spectators be forbidden from holding up Tibetan flags. The German soccer association’s
representative did not comply and no more football matches have been held.
Business
Close relationships, often decades old, between various enterprises and business
associations (including a newly established one on the Belt and Road Initiative) are
nurtured by the Chinese embassy, consulates, and representatives from Beijing. The
Chinese government provides financial and logistical support for events like the
Hamburg Summit or Asia Pacific Days in Berlin. A long-standing practice has been to
include CEOs of major enterprises in advisory boards of mayors of major Chinese cities
and provinces (remuneration seems not to play a role).
The issue of “weaponized” investment is growing in importance. In 2016, Chinese
companies spent 12.5 billion euros on investments in Germany—about as much as the
total investment of the entire previous decade. The main targets have been successful
technology companies. The blitz has subsided in the wake of greater political scrutiny
beginning in 2017 and German efforts, along with those of the United Kingdom and
France, to limit China’s ability to buy, borrow, or steal leading European technology.
German enterprises in both China and Germany are major targets for information
campaigns related to the Belt and Road Initiative. Enterprises generally respond
positively although with circumspection (only 36 percent of German companies in
China expect positive effects for their business). Especially large enterprises (e.g.,
Siemens) have played along and created their own “BRI Task Forces.” Siemens CEO
Joe Kaeser said in Davos in 2018 that the Belt and Road would become the “new
WTO.” Similar to instances elsewhere, when the Daimler company used a quote from
the Dalai Lama on its Instagram account, it was confronted with massive protests in
China’s media and it apologized publicly—twice—to China. The city of Duisburg (one
of the terminals of the trans-Eurasian railroads) in January 2018 reached a “strategic
cooperation” agreement with Huawei to turn Duisburg into a “smart city.” That entailed
having Huawei build a “Rhine Cloud” to host Duisburg’s data. 3
Media
German media have, for decades, been the target of official and unofficial Chinese
criticism that they are “anti-Chinese.” China’s state-run media have sought to
Appendix 2
164
make some inroads into the mainstream German press. China Daily’s advertisement
supplement, China Watch, is published in only one daily, after readers protested its
inclusion in another paper. In 2017, China’s state-run Xinhua News Agency partnered
with a German firm, the German Television News Agency or DFA, to provide soft
features about how important China is to Germany. Called Nihao Deutschland, the
program has been criticized as propaganda in the mainstream German press. 4
Reaction
It is in business, the one area of tangible Chinese influence efforts, where pushback
has begun in Germany. Chancellor Merkel and French president Emmanuel Macron
have initiated discussions with businesses and the EU Commission on ways to
establish stricter investment screening procedures and to push for more reciprocity for
European firms in China. In April 2018, the second chamber of the German parliament
(representing the federal states) passed a resolution to lower the threshold at which the
government may intervene in foreign direct investment (FDI) projects in Germany.
The measure was clearly targeted at China. As for the EU, the German government has
supported language that criticizes the BRI concept for hampering free trade and putting
Chinese companies at an advantage. 5
Conclusion
Many of the coercive actions documented here are for the most part measures one
might imagine German diplomats abroad also adopting. What raises questions are
the size of China’s activities and its objectives. China can wield massive resources in
pushing its public diplomacy agenda. This can turn German and European partners
into pawns. The outsize dimension of China’s influence efforts can render them
improper or even illegitimate. China’s efforts on the investment side often involve
draining technical know-how from German firms. On the political side, its support of
Central European countries has been carried out with the aim of dividing the primary
political organization of Europe, the EU. Neither of these can be regarded as proper and
legitimate behavior between states.
The risk of Chinese interference in Germany is serious in the medium to long term,
even though so far it is mainly an indirect one and German society by and large has
proven sufficiently resilient. A preliminary recommendation on how to prevent the
problem from becoming more serious would be to focus on more cohesion, exchange,
and transparency among countries concerned, first of all within the EU. This will
take time and effort, considering that some countries in Europe (such as a few Eastern
European nations along with Greece) hope to use their support of China’s political or
technological goals to lure Chinese investment. Still, as a leader of Europe, Germany—
along with France—needs to initiate a broad-based discussion among the public and
Appendix 2
165
the business community about the challenge presented by China’s economy and
political system and its objectives.
NOTES
1 ​The recent reports by ECFR and Merics/GPPI list some of them, but mainly deal with Europe in general:
Francois Godement and Abigael Vasselier, “China at the Gates: A New Power Audit of EU-China Relations,”
European Council on Foreign Relations, December 1, 2017, accessed October 11, 2018, http:// www​. ecfr​. eu​
/publications​/summary​/china​_eu​_power​_audit7242; and Thorsten Benner, Jan Gaspers, Mareike Ohlberg,
Lucrezia Poggetti, and Kristin Shi-Kupfer, “Authoritarian Advance: Responding to China’s Growing Political
Influence in Europe,” MERICS, February 2018.
2 ​Then foreign minister Sigmar Gabriel on August 30, 2017, in a speech asked China to respect the “One
Europe Principle” as much as it demands Europeans respect the “One China Principle.”
3 ​Achim Sawall, “Duisburg und Huawei Starten die Rhine Cloud,” Golem.de, June 11, 2018, accessed
October 11, 2018, https://www​.golem​.de​/news​/du​-it​-duisburg​-und​-huawei​-starten​-die​-rhine​-cloud​-1806​
- 134892​. html.
4 ​“ ‘Nihao Deutschland’ Zeigt Deutschen China,” Hamburger Abendblatt, August 8, 2017, accessed
October 11, 2018, https:// www​. abendblatt​. de​/ kultur​- live​/ tv​- und​- medien​/ article211511923​/ Nihao​
- Deutschland​- zeigt​- Deutschen​- China​. html.
5 ​Dana Heide, Till Hoppe, Klaus Stratman, and Stephan Scheur, “EU Ambassadors Band Together Against
Silk Road,” Handelsblatt, April 17, 2018, accessed October 11, 2018, https://global​.handelsblatt​.com​/politics​
/ eu​- ambassadors​- beijing​- china​- silk​- road​- 912258.
JAPAN
Japan would seem to be the perfect target for the Chinese party-state and its under-theradar
efforts to turn potential adversaries into benign friends. Japan has deep cultural
and emotional ties with China, through history, language, and art, and a sense of Asian
fraternity forged by their struggles to keep intrusive, overbearing Western powers at
bay. Many in Japan also carry an enduring sense of remorse for their country’s brutal
subjugation of China in the opening half of the twentieth century. However, the
kinds of covert Chinese influence operations that have come to light in countries like
the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and parts of Europe—with one
exception—are not easy to find in Japan.
A natural place to look for evidence of influence-peddling would be in Chinese
support for the left-wing Japanese peace groups that have long investigated and
published evidence of the Imperial Army’s war atrocities in the 1930s and 1940s.
Such Japanese research has been politically useful for China in buttressing its own
efforts to chronicle the sufferings of its people during the conflict, as well as lending
support to Beijing’s tussling with Tokyo over how the history of the war should be
managed and told.
Appendix 2
166
But Japanese activists have never needed encouragement from China on this front.
They lead homegrown movements with specific political targets in Japan itself,
notably attacking the conservative establishment and defending the country’s “peace
constitution.” These well-established groups, the origins of which lie in the Cold War
splits of 1950s Japanese politics, have long been attacked from the right in Japan for
being unpatriotic. But none has been linked credibly to Beijing’s United Front Work
Department. Nor is there evidence that they have been manipulated and managed by
CCP-aligned or directed interests.
The Japanese Communist Party, which still retains a substantial electoral base, is little
help to Beijing on the ground in Japan. The JCP was pro-Soviet through the Cold War
and has no special affinity with Beijing.
Japan’s cultural and institutional familiarity with China makes it, in different
ways, less amenable to Chinese influence than it would appear to be at first blush.
After all, Japan has absorbed much from China over many centuries, taking in
what it wanted and adapting it to its own ends, and keeping out much else. On
top of that, any notions of Asian solidarity have been subverted since the early
twentieth century by war and politics and by the failure of the two countries to
reach an equilibrium in the aftermath of Japan’s defeat in 1945 and the victory of
the Chinese communists in 1949.
Productive Back Channels
The opaque political cultures of both countries have shaped the way that bilateral
relations are conducted. Aside from conventional diplomacy, leaders of the dominant
political parties in China and Japan have extensively used back channels to establish
understandings on sensitive issues, including the overt use of CCP organs, outside of
normal state-to-state relations.
The Chinese People’s Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries, headed by
Li Xiaolin, the daughter of former Chinese president Li Xiannian, has long been
a forum through which the two sides have conducted dialogues. The Friendship
Association is effectively the public face of the CCP’s UFWD. It is not covert and,
for all the connotations conjured up in its name, it remains avowedly an arm of the
party-state. In that respect, the Friendship Association remains a reliable conduit for
passing messages between the two countries, especially at a time, as in recent years,
when senior-level political exchanges have been fraught. When bilateral relations
froze in 2012 after the clash over the Senkaku/Diaoyu Islands, it was a measure of
how dangerous things became that the back channels, or the “pipes,” as the Japanese
describe them, froze, making diplomatic signaling difficult across the East China Sea.
Appendix 2
167
Okinawa and Senkaku/Diaoyu Debates
The clearest case of covert meddling occurs far south of Tokyo in Okinawa, the
ancient island-kingdom which is geographically closer to Taiwan than it is to the
Japanese mainland. As late as 2015, prominent Chinese were asserting that the Ryukyu
Islands, which include Okinawa, belonged as much to Beijing as they did to Japan. In
large part, they based their argument on the fact that the chain was once a Chinese
tributary state. The two countries still hotly contest this island chain, known as
Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China. “I am not saying all former tributary states
belong to China, but we can say with certainty that the Ryukyus do not belong to
Japan,” wrote Luo Yuan, a retired and hawkish People’s Liberation Army general. 1
Chinese scholars have argued that Japan’s annexation of the islands in 1879 was an
invasion and that the sovereignty of the island chain is thus open to question. For the
time being, the Chinese Foreign Ministry has not pressed this issue.
Hong Kong has long been a base for flag-waving Chinese activists agitating on the issue
of the Senkaku/Diaoyu islands. Their appeals to a notion of Chinese brotherhood,
combined with the fact the group writes in traditional Chinese characters, suggests
that the main consumers of the Organizing Committee for the Ryukyus propaganda
may not be on mainland China. Instead, the Organizing Committee may well be
targeting supporters of the Kuomintang in Taiwan, where hard core supporters of
unification have become marginalized in mainstream politics, or overseas Chinese
communities. 2
It is of some significance that the same individuals who make up the Organizing
Committee are also listed online as serving in CCP United Front Work Department
positions in Hong Kong. 3 The Organizing Committee for the Ryukyus also has a robust
online presence, with both a website and a Weibo (similar to Twitter) account. 4 It is
worth noting, also, that the Hong Kong-based campaign to regain the Ryukyus has not
won any overt or consistent support from Beijing.
But the Hong Kong patriots’ campaign has the benefit of being aligned with anti-
Japanese sentiment in Okinawa itself, where both political leaders and the local media
are antagonistic toward Tokyo. The local discontent is directly related to the longstanding
presence of tens of thousands of US military personnel stationed on the
island and the ways in which they have interacted with the indigenous population.
Operating at arm’s length from the government, however, a cabal of self-styled
Chinese patriots in Hong Kong has openly agitated for the Ryukus (Senkaku/Diaoyu)
to be taken from Japan and to become part of China. The main group calls itself the
“Organizing Committee for the Ryukyu Islands Special Administrative Region of the
Appendix 2
168
Chinese Race.” 5 Hong Kong has long been a base for flag-waving Chinese activists
agitating on the issue of the Senkaku/Diaoyu islands. “The Chinese race does not
fight wars. The Chinese race only safeguards peace!” runs one pronouncement which
was designed as an outreach to potential supporters on Okinawa. “The Chinese race
is relying on you. The Chinese race today relies on you, and the Chinese race can
rely on you.” 6 Even more extreme is the way that the group frames its assertion that
the Ryukus (Senkaku/Diaoyu) should become part of China. “The Japanese people
are a part of the Chinese race and Japan is originally of Chinese blood,” the group’s
president, Zhao Dong, says in one posting.
For the CCP in Beijing, with an eye on the long game, building links between
malcontents in Okinawa and patriots in Hong Kong could easily pay off in the future.
Countering Chinese Influence
The Japanese government has been at the forefront of attempts to counter Chinese
efforts for influence throughout Asia. It maintains a robust, if under-the-radar,
relationship with Taiwan. It has strong ties to Vietnam and it has attempted to
modify China’s influence over Cambodia and Laos, although to little effect. Japan
has a close relationship with New Delhi that involves not simply trade but also
security. Japan and India recently unveiled the Asia-Africa Growth Corridor as a
way to compete with Chinese influence in Africa. Japan’s ties to Australia are deep
as well. 7 Japan’s government was the source of the expression “Free and open Indo-
Pacific” as a counterpoint to China’s attempts to turn the Western Pacific (or at least
the South China Sea) into a Chinese lake. Moreover, Japanese firms currently are
outpacing Chinese firms in terms of infrastructure investment in Southeast Asia.
NOTES
1 ​Justin McCurry, “China Lays Claim to Okinawa as Territory Dispute with Japan Escalates,” Guardian (UK),
May 15, 2013, https:// www​. theguardian​. com​/ world​/ 2013​/ may​/ 15​/ china​- okinawa​- dispute​- japan​- ryukyu.
2 ​Taiwanese newspapers have already covered the Organizing Committee in a rather disparaging fashion:
“Pushing Japan to Hand Back the Ryukyus: Chinese People Draw up an International Lawsuit,” “ 促日歸還琉
球中國人擬告上國際法庭 ,” Liberty Times (Taiwan), August 2, 2016, accessed October 11, 2018, http:// news​. ltn​
. com​. tw​/ news​/ world​/ paper​/ 1017100.
3 ​“China Brilliant Cause Investment Group CCTV International News Introduction,” Yanzhao Nightly/
Shijiazhuang Daily, accessed October 11, 2018, http://www​.hnqxgs​.com​/yzwbfz​/2196344​.html.
4 ​“Organising Committee for the Ryukyu Islands Special Administrative Region of the Chinese Race,”
Weibo, accessed October 11, 2018, https://www​.weibo​.com​/u​/1931192953​?is​_hot​=​1.
5 ​Ryukyu Network, Organising Committee for the Special Administrative Region of the Chinese Race,
accessed October 11, 2018, http://www​.ryukyu​-china​.com.
Appendix 2
169
6 ​“ 中華民族琉球特別自治区」の正体は . . . ​ 中国共産党中央統一戦線工作部 ,” Japan+, November 10, 2015,
accessed October 11, 2018, http://japan​-plus​.net​/952.
7 ​Daniel Moss, “As China Steps Up, Japan Isn’t Stepping Aside,” Bloomberg, July 10, 2018, accessed October 11,
2018, https://www​.bloomberg​.com​/view​/articles​/2018​-07​-10​/japan​-reasserts​-influence​-as​-china​-rises.
NEW ZEALAND
The issue of Chinese influence operations in New Zealand began to attract significant
attention in September 2017 when Anne-Marie Brady, a professor at the University of
Canterbury, published a detailed assessment of that country’s experience in the weeks
prior to national elections. 1
China’s influence operations in New Zealand are rooted in the same set of policies
and institutions that guide its work globally, often proceeding outward from efforts
targeted at the diaspora community. As has been observed elsewhere, influence
operations in New Zealand have increased markedly since Xi Jinping became general
secretary of the Chinese Communist Party. The Chinese government considers New
Zealand an “exemplar of how it would like its relations to be with other states.” 2 One
unnamed Chinese diplomat even characterized relations between the two countries as
similar to China’s close ties with totalitarian Albania in the early 1960s.
New Zealand is of strategic interest to China for several reasons. As a claimant state in
Antarctica, the country is relevant to China’s growing ambitions in that territory. It
manages the defense and foreign affairs of three other territories in the South Pacific.
It is an ideal location for near-space research and has unexplored oil and gas resources.
Most critically, as a member of the “Five Eyes” security partnerships with the United
States, Australia, Canada, and the United Kingdom, New Zealand offers enormous
possibilities for Chinese espionage.
New Zealand is particularly vulnerable to Chinese influence because it is a small state
of 4.5 million people with strong trade ties to China. China is New Zealand’s second
largest trading partner and a critical market for two of its most important sectors,
tourism and milk products. It should be noted that New Zealand has historically
pursued closer ties with China than many other nations. What is changing is the
willfulness with which China appears ready to exploit this dynamic and to subvert
New Zealand’s continued ability to independently shape its policy priorities.
Examples of improper influence in New Zealand include revelations that a member of
Parliament concealed that he had been involved with Chinese military intelligence for
fifteen years prior to immigrating to New Zealand; a New Zealand company found to
Appendix 2
170
be violating bans on exports to North Korea via its Chinese partner; and the almost
complete domination of local Chinese-language media by pro-PRC outlets.
Chinese Diaspora
There are currently two hundred thousand ethnic Chinese in New Zealand, primarily
concentrated in Auckland. During the Cold War, Chinese New Zealanders “were neither
pro-CCP nor pro-PRC” and its community institutions were “proudly independent.”
Now, few activities are noticeably independent of Beijing.
In addition to its embassy in Wellington, Beijing coordinates its engagement with the
diaspora through an Overseas Chinese Service Center, established in Auckland in 2014.
The organization considered most closely connected with PRC authorities in New
Zealand is the Peaceful Reunification of China Association of New Zealand, which was
founded in 2000. Controlled by the United Front Work Department, it has encouraged
bloc voting in the ethnic Chinese community, fund-raising for friendly ethnic Chinese
political candidates, and organizing of protests. The current leader of the association,
a businessman in the food industry, also heads or has leadership roles in other United
Front organizations in New Zealand and has been publicly listed as an adviser to the
Beijing Overseas Chinese Affairs Council.
Several current ethnic Chinese individuals active in New Zealand work “very publicly”
with China’s United Front Organizations in New Zealand. 3 In return they have
benefited from fund-raising events held by the Peaceful Reunification Association,
which has encouraged ethnic Chinese to vote for them. In the 2017 elections, a woman
who led the New Zealand Chinese Students and Scholars Association was placed on
the Labour Party’s election slate, but the party did not receive enough votes for her to
enter Parliament. Chinese individuals active in New Zealand politics have also attended
Peaceful Reunification Association meetings, where they stated their intention to
promote China’s policies with respect to Tibet, promoted a think tank tied to the Belt
and Road Initiative, and repeated slogans from Xi Jinping in local campaign materials.
Politics
In 2017, it was disclosed that Yang Jian, who to date remains a member of
Parliament, concealed that he had been a student and teacher at two of China’s
military intelligence colleges for fifteen years before immigrating to New Zealand.
He omitted this history on his English-language resume for his position at a New
Zealand university, his permanent residency and citizenship applications, and his
parliamentary position, but he disclosed it selectively to those speaking Chinese.
Yang has acknowledged the veracity of these reports, including that he was a member
of the Chinese Communist Party, but claims he ceased his affiliation after leaving
Appendix 2
171
the country in 1994. Since entering government, Yang “has been a central figure
promoting and helping to shape the New Zealand National government’s China
strategy” and was a member of the Parliamentary Select Committee for Foreign Affairs,
Defense, and Trade from 2014 to 2016, which would have given him privileged access
to information. 4
Chinese influence efforts targeted toward New Zealand politics transcend the diaspora
community to include campaign contributions and the cultivation of relationships with
former senior officials. Individuals with strong ties to United Front organizations have
donated several million dollars, primarily to the National Party. One such individual, who
donated $112,000 to the National Party in 2017, is listed as an officer of no fewer than
seven United Front organizations. 5 Senior politicians who have secured high-profile roles
in Chinese companies include a former party leader and members of Parliament who
serve on the boards of the New Zealand affiliates of major Chinese banks. A former
minister of finance serves on the board of a majority-Chinese-owned New Zealand
dairy. In late September, a former prime minister who now represents an American
company’s interests in China attracted attention for the sale of property “well above
market rates” to an undisclosed Chinese buyer. Local politicians have also been
targeted.
Business
Chinese companies have also been instruments of interference in New Zealand. After
acquiring a stake in a local telecom company in 2011, Chinese telecom giant Huawei
went on to win the contract to build New Zealand’s 4G wireless network in 2013.
Huawei also established research partnerships and other investments in the country
that may be leveraged for nonbusiness purposes. In another instance, New Zealand
aeronautics company Pacific Aerospace in 2014 partnered with Beijing Automotive
Group on the sale of planes to the Chinese market. In 2017, Pacific Aerospace was
charged by New Zealand Customs with knowingly and illegally exporting parts to
North Korea via its Chinese partner.
Universities
New Zealand has long-standing scientific cooperation agreements with China, most
of which are benign. However, since China renewed an emphasis on civil-military
research integration in 2015, New Zealand, like other countries hosting major
research institutions, has been targeted for its potential to further these aims. New
Zealand universities have partnerships with several Chinese universities linked to
China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA), including the PLA Institute of Military
Culture (Massey); the National University of Defense Technology (Auckland, Massey);
Northwestern Polytechnical University (Canterbury), Shenyang Aerospace University
Appendix 2
172
(UNITEC), and Xidian University (Otago, VUW). New Zealand regularly hosts doctoral
students who were graduates of these universities and also hosts current students
and staff on short-term fellowships. Some New Zealand academics have roles at PLAlinked
universities. The potential for these relationships to be exploited requires a
reevaluation of government policies on scientific exchange. 6
Civil Society
Media are a key target of China’s influence efforts. New Zealand’s local Chineselanguage
outlets all have content cooperation agreements with China’s Xinhua News
Service, participate in annual media training conferences in China, have at times
employed senior staff affiliated with the Communist Party, and have hosted CCP
propaganda officials. CCP officials have given direct editorial instructions to Chineselanguage
media in New Zealand as part of the CCP’s strategy to blend overseas
content with that in the PRC. On television, a Chinese-language channel has removed
Taiwanese programming from its network. Xinhua has also established its own
television station.
With respect to English media, China Daily in 2016 established a partnership with
the Fairfax newspapers in Australia and New Zealand. The Chinese embassy has
sponsored the travel of journalists and politicians. In other instances, donors with
close connections to the Chinese government have donated to organizations that
provide research funding and subsidize journalist and youth visits to China, as well as
exhibitions, book publications, and other activities that “promote a non-critical view
of China.”
China’s representatives in New Zealand also put considerable pressure on New
Zealanders who speak up critically on China-related issues. Since publication of her
initial report on Chinese influence operations in the country, Anne-Marie Brady
has experienced break-ins at her office and home, according to testimony before the
Australian Parliament’s Intelligence and Security Committee. 7
Conclusion
New Zealand’s government, unlike that of Australia, has taken few steps to counter
foreign interference in its internal affairs. Charity fund-raising, which has been used
by Chinese United Front organizations to mask contributions, remains excluded from
disclosure requirements. New Zealand’s intelligence service still cannot investigate
cases of subversion and foreign influence inside its political parties without the
approval of the service’s minister, whose political calculations may inhibit action. And
media regulations remain inadequate to address improper influence by means other
than outright ownership, which may also merit reform.
Appendix 2
173
NOTES
1 ​Anne-Marie Brady, “Magic Weapons: China’s Political Influence Activities under Xi Jinping,” Kissinger
Institute on China and the United States, September 18, 2017, accessed October 11, 2018, https:// www​
. wilsoncenter​. org​/ article​/ magic​- weapons​- chinas​- political​- influence​- activities​- under​- xi​- jinping. Also see
Anne-Marie Brady, “Looking for Points in Common While Facing Up to Differences,” Small States and the
New Security Environment, November 14, 2017, accessed October 11, 2018, https:// www​. canterbury​. ac​. nz​
/ media​/ documents​/ research​/ Looking​- for​- points​- in​- common​- while​- facing​- up​- to​- differences​. pdf.
2 ​Ibid.
3 ​Ibid.
4 ​Ibid.
5 ​Ibid.
6 ​Anne-Marie Brady, “University Links with China Raise Questions,” New Zealand Herald, July 13, 2018,
accessed October 11, 2018, https://www​.nzherald​.co​.nz​/nz​/news​/article​.cfm​?c​_id​=​1&objectid​=​12086974.
7 ​Matt Nippert, “University of Canterbury Professor Anne-Marie Brady Concerned Break-ins Linked to Work
on China,” New Zealand Herald, February 16, 2018, accessed October 11, 2018, http://www​.nzherald​.co​.nz​
/ nz​/ news​/ article​. cfm​? c​_ id​=​1&objectid​=​11995384.
SINGAPORE AND ASEAN
Singapore is unique in that it is the only majority ethnic Chinese state outside of
Greater China (Taiwan, Hong Kong, Macao). Singapore is also unique in Southeast Asia
because its rigorous standards of governance and zero tolerance for corruption make it
virtually impossible to bribe or openly suborn political leaders or opinion-leaders.
In 2016–17, Singapore’s generally friendly, smooth relationship with China took a
downturn. The proximate cause was Singapore becoming country coordinator for
China for the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). This post is held
by ASEAN member states by rotation for a three-year term. China seemed to have
convinced itself that the role entailed Singapore “coordinating” ASEAN’s position on
the South China Sea (SCS) territorial disputes in its favor. But China has long been
unhappy with Singapore’s clear and consistent position on the SCS. Singapore is not a
claimant state to the South China Sea. The previous country coordinator was Vietnam,
a claimant state whose relationship with China has been historically fraught. Chinese
expectations of Singapore may have been unrealistically high, particularly after the
Arbitral Tribunal on the case brought by the Philippines against China ruled against
China’s position in a verdict in July 2016.
China criticized Singapore’s support for SCS disputes being resolved in accordance with
international law as “taking sides.” It objected to Singapore’s leaders and officials even
speaking on the SCS issue. When Singapore stood firm on its right to state its position
on an issue of undoubted importance to the region, the Chinese influence apparatus
Appendix 2
174
was activated to pressure the government to change position. Singapore’s experience in
2016–17 holds lessons for other ASEAN member states.
On the surface, China claims that it does not interfere in the internal affairs of other
states. At the same time, it is led by a Leninist party that embraces the ideas of the
United Front as a key tactic. Translated into foreign policy, by its nature United Front
work involves lobbying, coercion, co-optation and other influence operations—some
of which are legitimate, others of which are not. China’s self-declared role as the
representative of all Chinese people around the world and its stated position that all
Chinese are obliged to help China further complicate its position in Singapore, which
is 76 percent Chinese.
This multifaceted and contradictory approach is deployed within an overarching
narrative of China’s inevitable and unstoppable rise and America’s equally inevitable
and absolute decline. This narrative and others are propagated by various means:
WeChat with Chinese-speaking populations, social and mainstream media, whispering
campaigns, business, clan, and cultural associations, and conventional agents of
influence reporting to Chinese intelligence organizations, who cultivate what Lenin
called “useful idiots.”
A History of Influence
Chinese influence operations in Singapore are not a recent phenomenon. China’s
United Front activities in the late 1950s and 1960s sought to export China’s communist
revolution to Southeast Asia and were part of an open political struggle. But even after
China’s proxies in the political contest were defeated, China continued to try to shape
public opinion in Singapore. This attempt differed from the 2016–17 episode mainly in
the means deployed, which reflected the technologies available at the time.
On May 15, 1971, the Singapore government announced the arrest and detention of
three individuals under the Internal Security Act. The government press statement
revealed that “officials of a communist intelligence service based in Hong Kong”
had between 1964 and 1968 given loans totaling more than 7 million Hong Kong
dollars at the “ridiculously low interest rate of 0.1% per annum” to an ethnic Chinese
businessman to start an English-language daily newspaper named the Eastern Sun. 1 The
newspaper commenced publication in 1966. In return for the loans, the Eastern Sun was
required not to oppose the PRC on major issues and to remain neutral on minor issues.
In 2004, China deployed intense pressure on Singapore when then deputy prime
minister Lee Hsien Loong paid an unofficial visit to Taiwan. The Chinese were trying
to get Singapore to cancel the visit. Singapore adheres to a “One China Policy,” but if
Appendix 2
175
China had succeeded, it would have forced a significant modification of Singapore’s
approach to Taiwan.
This was not the first unofficial visit by a Singaporean leader to Taiwan. Previous
unofficial visits by even more senior Singapore leaders had passed without incident.
The 2004 visit conformed to the established pattern in form and substance of previous
visits. But what the 2004 incident had in common with the 2016–17 episode was that
both occurred at times of political transition in Singapore.
In 2004, it was clear that Lee Hsien Loong would replace Goh Chok Tong as
Singapore’s third prime minister. By 2016, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong had made
public his intention to step aside after the next general election (due by 2020) and let
a younger generation of political leaders take over. The pressures deployed on both
occasions may have been intended as tests of the resolve of new leaders and warnings
to new leaders about what to expect unless they were more accommodating to China.
South China Sea
When Singapore became the ASEAN country coordinator in 2016, Chinese diplomats
called upon Singapore to “explain” China’s position on the SCS to other ASEAN
countries, or to ensure that the issue was not raised in ASEAN forums, or, if raised,
downplayed. Such demarches have been routine in all ASEAN countries for many years.
Simultaneously, messages targeting civil society and other sectors began to appear,
most prominently on social media. The aim was to instill a fatalistic acceptance of the
