Edwards adv. Epstein
Case No.: 502009CA040800XXXXMBAG
Second Renewed Motion for Leave to Assert Claim for Punitive Damages

A. Epstein’s Complaint

Epstein’s Second Amended Complaint essentially alleged that Epstein was damaged by
Edwards, acting in concert with Scott Rothstein (President of the Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler law
firm (“RRA”) where Edwards worked for a short period of time). Epstein appeared to allege that
Edwards joined Rothstein in the abusive prosecution of sexual assault cases against Epstein to
“pump” the cases to Ponzi scheme investors. As described by Epstein, investor victims were
told by Rothstein that three minor girls who were sexually assaulted by Epstein: L.M., E.W., and

+ Jane Doe were to be paid up-front money to-prevent those girls-from-settling their-civil cases <== -

~=sapainst Epstein. In Epstein’s--view,-these -child sexual assault--casés-Had “minimal: value” = 990° * =

(Complaint & 42(h)), and Edwards’s refusal to force his clients to accept modest settlement
offers was claimed to breach some duty that Edwards owed to Epstein. Interestingly, Epstein
‘never states that he actually made any settlement offers.

The supposed “proof? of the Complaint’s allegations against Edwards includes
Edwards’s alleged contacts with the media, his attempts to obtain discovery from high-profile
persons with whom Epstein socialized, and use of “ridiculously inflammatory” language in
arguments in court. Remarkably, Epstein has filed such allegations against Edwards despite the
fact that Epstein had sexually abused each of Edwards’s clients and others while they were
minors. Indeed, in discovery Epstein has asserted his Fifth Amendment privilege rather than
answer questions about the extent of the sexual abuse of his many victims. Even more
remarkably, since filing his suit against Edwards, Epstein settled the three cases Edwards

handled for an amount that Epstein insisted be kept confidential. Without violating the strict

5

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013398
