Even from jail, Jeffrey Epstein manipulated the system | Miami Herald Page 5 of 17
Case 1:19-cv-03377 Document 1-1 Filed 04/16/19 Page 6 of 18

Virginia Roberts, now Giuffre, says she was 16 and working as a locker room attendant at Donald Trump’s Mar-a-Lago resort when she was approached by Ghislaine Maxwell,
Jeffrey Epstein’s associate, about becoming a masseuse for Epstein. COURTESY OF VIRGINIA ROBERTS

That summer, when Roberts was 16, she said her father helped her get a job as a locker room attendant at the spa at Donald Trump’s Mar-a-Lago resort in
Palm Beach, records show. Her father worked at the resort as a maintenance man.

There she said she met Ghislaine Maxwell, an Epstein friend and socialite daughter of the late British publishing magnate Robert Maxwell. She offered
Roberts an opportunity to become a massage therapist, working for Epstein.

In a sworn court affidavit and in a recent interview with the Herald, Roberts described how Epstein and Maxwell began grooming her — not just to
perform massages, but to sexually pleasure them and others.

“Tt started with one and it trickled into two and so on,” Roberts told the Herald. “And before you know it, I’m being lent out to politicians and academics
and royalty.”

Roberts, too, was ordered to find Epstein girls — the younger, the better — by trolling areas where teenagers congregated, such as shopping malls, to lure
girls to whatever residence Epstein was staying in at the time, she told the Herald.

She began to travel with Epstein and Maxwell to Epstein’s other homes, in New York, New Mexico and the U.S. Virgin Islands — and her trips are
documented in flight logs that frequently list her name or her initials as a passenger, court records show.

“His appetite was insatiable. He wanted new girls, fresh, young faces every single day — that was just the sickness that he had,” Roberts said.
Neither Epstein nor his lead attorney, Goldberger, responded to requests for comment.

Roberts alleges that Epstein had cameras throughout his homes and said he liked her to tell him about the sexual peccadilloes of various important men
she had sex with.

“Epstein and Maxwell also got girls for Epstein’s friends and acquaintances. Epstein specifically told me that the reason for him doing this was so that
they would ‘owe him,’ they would ‘be in his pocket,’ and he would ‘have something on them,’ ” Roberts said in a court affidavit. “I understood him to

https://www.miamiherald.com/news/local/article2 19494920 html 4/3/2019
HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017968
