ignorance, the emptiness and its mystery. Computations of the entropy of systems
in motion convert questions and answers concerning the detailed workings of the
leg’s neuromuscular machinery to global statistical descriptions of more abstract
thematic motifs, forms, expressed in the dance. Patterns of behavior of these
properties can suggest intuitive ideas and imagery about global mechanisms,
approach/avoid, smooth/discrete, wildtame, as well as correlated and objective
physical observables.

To learn more about this abstract, topology tinged (none numeric) style of
model building, we can go to school on a long studied physical example. It connects
a simple and well understood rea/ world observable with abstract statistical patterns
resulting from motions using the one-to-one correspondence (the equivalence
relation called isomorphism) between their entropies. As we have discussed, the
Stanford mathematician and Field’s Medal Winner, Donald Ornstein, proved that in
statistical studies of even point-to-point unpredictable, chaotic systems, entropy is
the only isomorphism. The hardware of this physical example is what the statistical
physicists call a dilute gas of some fixed number, n, of uniform hard spheres,
moving scatterers, that, absent of dissipative friction, wander continuously around,
changing their directions when bumping into each other. In a two dimensional
bounded arena of randomly rolling balls, this game has been called Sinai’s billiards.
It was named for previously mentioned Ya Sinai, an eminent Russian
mathematician He is now at Princeton and was previously a student of Andrei
Nikolaevic Kolmogorov, the Russian guru of many of the Twentieth Century’s world-
class Russian mathematicians. Kolmogorov axiomatized the field of probability and,
more relevantly, initiated the theory of statistical descriptions, the ergodic theory, of
nonlinear dynamical systems. |In the language of statistical physics, we will see that
the same system produced by high number of elements executing Newton’s
deterministic laws can be generated by a so-called random system such as that
resulting from flipping a suitably biased coin. Our example can also serve as a
metaphor, used extensively in the mathematical biology of the late Professor Art
Winfree, for the temporal features of life on a topological circle: the natural

irregularities of the recurrent beat of the heart, the in and out breathing of lungs, the

103

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013603
