no one to say “Go away.” Hence I became more a constant interloper than an invited guest
—something quite close to an actual fly on the wall—having accepted no rules nor having
made any promises about what I might or might not write.

Many of the accounts of what has happened in the Trump White House are in conflict
with one another; many, in Trumpian fashion, are baldly untrue. Those conflicts, and that
looseness with the truth, if not with reality itself, are an elemental thread of the book.
Sometimes I have let the players offer their versions, in turn allowing the reader to judge
them. In other instances I have, through a consistency in accounts and through sources I
have come to trust, settled on a version of events I believe to be true.

Some of my sources spoke to me on so-called deep background, a convention of
contemporary political books that allows for a disembodied description of events provided
by an unnamed witness to them. I have also relied on off-the-record interviews, allowing a
source to provide a direct quote with the understanding that it was not for attribution.
Other sources spoke to me with the understanding that the material in the interviews
would not become public until the book came out. Finally, some sources spoke
forthrightly on the record.

At the same time, it is worth noting some of the journalistic conundrums that I faced
when dealing with the Trump administration, many of them the result of the White
House’s absence of official procedures and the lack of experience of its principals. These
challenges have included dealing with off-the-record or deep-background material that
was later casually put on the record; sources who provided accounts in confidence and
subsequently shared them widely, as though liberated by their first utterances; a frequent
inattention to setting any parameters on the use of a conversation; a source’s views being
so well known and widely shared that it would be risible not to credit them; and the almost
samizdat sharing, or gobsmacked retelling, of otherwise private and deep-background
conversations. And everywhere in this story is the president’s own constant, tireless, and
uncontrolled voice, public and private, shared by others on a daily basis, sometimes
virtually as he utters it.

For whatever reason, almost everyone I contacted—senior members of the White
House staff as well as dedicated observers of it—shared large amounts of time with me
and went to great effort to help shed light on the unique nature of life inside the Trump
White House. In the end, what I witnessed, and what this book is about, is a group of
people who have struggled, each in their own way, to come to terms with the meaning of
working for Donald Trump.

I owe them an enormous debt.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019882
