The information he did not get was formal information. The data. The details. The
options. The analysis. He didn’t do PowerPoint. For anything that smacked of a classroom
or of being lectured to—“professor” was one of his bad words, and he was proud of never
going to class, never buying a textbook, never taking a note—he got up and left the room.

This was a problem in multiple respects—indeed, in almost all the prescribed functions
of the presidency. But perhaps most of all, it was a problem in the evaluation of strategic
military options.

The president liked generals. The more fruit salad they wore, the better. The president
was very pleased with the compliments he got for appointing generals who commanded
the respect that Mattis and Kelly and McMaster were accorded (pay no attention to
Michael Flynn). What the president did not like was /istening to generals, who, for the
most part, were skilled in the new army jargon of PowerPoint, data dumps, and
McKinsey-like presentations. One of the things that endeared Flynn to the president was
that Flynn, quite the conspiracist and drama queen, had a vivid storytelling sense.

By the time of the Syrian attack on Khan Sheikhoun, McMaster had been Trump’s
National Security Advisor for only about six weeks. Yet his efforts to inform the president
had already become an exercise in trying to tutor a recalcitrant and resentful student.
Recently Trump’s meetings with McMaster had ended up in near acrimony, and now the
president was telling several friends that his new National Security Advisor was too
boring and that he was going to fire him.

McMaster had been the default choice, a fact that Trump kept returning to: Why had he
hired him? He blamed his son-in-law.

After the president fired Flynn in February, he had spent two days at Mar-a-Lago
interviewing replacements, badly taxing his patience.

John Bolton, the former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations and Bannon’s
consistent choice, made his aggressive light-up-the-world, go-to-war pitch.

Then Lt. Gen. Robert L. Caslen Jr., superintendent of the United States Military
Academy at West Point, presented himself with what Trump viewed positively as old-
fashioned military decorum. Yes, sir No, sir That’s correct, sir. Well, I think we know
China has some problems, sir. And in short order it seemed that Trump was selling Caslen
on the job.

“That’s the guy I want,” said Trump. “He’s got the look.”

But Caslen demurred. He had never really had a staff job. Kushner thought he might
not be ready.

“Yeah, but I liked that guy,” pressed Trump.

Then McMaster, wearing a uniform with his silver star, came in and immediately

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020025
