BREAKING DOWN DEMOCRACY: Goals, Strategies, and Methods of Modern Authoritarians

of criticism in the media to justify a tenuous claim
of pluralism. In recent years, tolerance for ideas
and opinions that are not aligned with those of
the regime has steadily eroded. In Russia, a bad
situation became much worse after the invasion
of Ukraine in 2014. Those who criticized or even
raised questions about the morality or wisdom of
the Kremlin's actions were persecuted, dismissed
from employment, and banned from media com-
mentary. Putin also expanded the zone of media
control from the mainstream television and print
sectors to the internet.

In Venezuela, one opposition or independent
voice after another has been neutralized, as key
newspapers and television stations were sold,
under duress, to businessmen with ties to the
government. The new and often opaque owners
generally watered down political reporting and
forced out prominent journalists.’

Even before the 2016 coup attempt, media free-
dom in Turkey was deteriorating at an alarming
rate. The government, controlled by President
Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s Justice and Develop-
ment Party, aggressively used the penal code,
criminal defamation legislation, and antiterror-
ism laws to punish critical reporting. Journal-
ists also faced growing violence, harassment,
and intimidation from both state and nonstate
actors. The authorities also used financial and
administrative leverage over media owners to
influence coverage and muzzle dissent.’

War propaganda: For some time, propaganda
from Russia, China, and other authoritarian
countries stressed a hostility toward liberal val-
ues and democracy, framed around a relentless
anti-Americanism. There were, however, certain
redlines that propagandists were unlikely to
cross. They would criticize American foreign
policy and blame it for a country’s problems.

But only rarely would they accuse Washington
of warlike intentions, and they seldom if ever
made military threats themselves. Since the
invasion of Ukraine and the resulting economic
sanctions imposed by the United States and the
EU, Russian propaganda has assumed an uglier,
more menacing tone. The same Is true in China,
where official expressions of hostility toward the
United States and “Western” democratic values
intensified—indeed took on a histrionic and
belligerent character—after the ascension of Xi

Jinping as Communist Party leader. In Turkey,
progovernment commentators have accused
the U.S. government and even an American
think tank of involvement in the failed coup of
2016. °

Closing doors to the outside world: More

than anything else, modern authoritarianism is
distinguished from traditional autocracy by its
openness to relatively normal relations with the
outside world. China, for example, long sought
to balance calibrated repression at home with
participation in an impressive array of global in-
stitutions. Beijing welcomed the establishment
of local branches of foreign, mostly American,
universities, joint research ventures with foreign
scholars, and even the involvement of foreign
NGOs in areas such as legal reform and envi-
ronmental conservation. While more ambiv-
alent about the international media, Chinese
authorities did give unprecedented freedom of
movement to foreign journalists in the period
surrounding the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Russia
was less welcoming to foreign involvement in
the country, whether by governmental or private
entities, but for a time it maintained academic
exchanges with the United States and European
countries, grudgingly tolerated foreign NGOs,
and took some pride in the freedom of Russians
to travel freely abroad.

Conditions have deteriorated over the past
several years. In Russia, the government re-
duced trade with Europe in response to sanc-
tions, imposed travel restrictions on millions of
public-sector employees, smeared domestic
human rights organizations as “foreign agents”
for accepting international funding, and began
blacklisting foreign NGOs as “undesirable.” Chi-
na has increased regulatory and legal pressure
on foreign companies, bullied foreign countries
into repatriating Chinese political refugees,
significantly increased regulatory restrictions on
foreign NGOs, and sharply curbed journalistic
freedom for foreign correspondents.

Propaganda and official rhetoric in both
countries has increasingly portrayed them as
besieged fortresses, threatened on all sides by
hostile foreign powers, spies, separatists, and
traitors who seek to topple the government and
deny the nation its rightful place in the world. In
this environment, any interaction with foreigners

54

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019288
