pile of nuclear waste in my safe instead of cash and securities? Drive a truck filled
with dynamite into a crowd of unbelievers? Write a book on economics when | have
no credentials? Sing when | have an atrocious voice? All express my tastes. There is
no escape. Behavior reveals taste satisfaction in the broad sense including provision

for future satisfactions.

Tastes, Aims and Ends

| usually mean the word “tastes” as objectives whose satisfaction exhausts capital
value. By that usage, as we just saw, the truism that behavior reveals tastes must be
interpreted carefully. We see current taste satisfaction at mealtimes. Between meals,
we mostly see buildup of capital to satisfy tastes in future. And we sometimes are
motivated to give capital away, as in raising the generation to succeed us. |
sometimes use the term “aims” to mean the sum of this exhaust plus gift plus
buildup. Then to say that output realizes growth plus cash flow is to say that it
realizes aims. All behavior reveals and maximizes aims explained by ends. This

again puts the maximand rule in a different way.

As capital of both factors is our whole means of behavior, and as it is present value
of foreseen taste satisfaction and nothing else, we might first suppose that taste
satisfaction is our unique fina! goal. But that too could mislead. Biology shapes our
tastes, and shapes them to replicate the generations. | treat the biological imperative
as the “ends” driving tastes and aims. Our two complementary ends are adult
survival and replication of both factors for survival of the young. This idea underlies

next generation theory.

What we maximize is risk-adjusted present value of current plus foreseen taste
satisfactions by ourselves plus donees. Current taste satisfaction or exhaust by
ourselves is counted at full value, and foreseen ones are added at a time discount.
Transfer is part of the mechanics. The exhaust plus growth plus gift are the aims, in
whatever proportion we like, and our subliminal deeper motive of lineage survival

is the ends.

Chapter 3: Foundations 1/11/16 15

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010986
