little water under the bridge between my folks and J. With my life
heading in a different direction I didn’t see any use in holding on to so
much hate especially that I didn’t even have to see them that much.

We got back to “Zorro Ranch”, the name Jeffrey chose to call the
massive land he bought to build his fortress on, and Jeffrey told me that
he was looking forward to one of my famous relaxing massages and with
that notion he gave my bags of shopping to one of the many housemaids
who greeted us at the front door and asked her to bring my bags to the
exquisite room I was staying in. We headed straight downstairs just past
the massage room and gym there is an indoor heated pool, shower and
spa. First Jeffrey wanted to warm up in the spa underneath a decorated
ceiling of clouds and blue skies. Starting the massage in the spa | rubbed
his feet while he reclined into the spa’s jets. We spoke of the museum and
some of the knick-knacks I had bought and I thanked him for the
turquoise earrings and necklace he had got for me as a gift, joking about
not ever knowing what to get for him, being that he was richest man I'd
ever known. By no far means did we ever have any kind of a mutua
respectful bond between us, but there was a significant softer side he
began to share with me that was different from how he treated his other
girls. Maybe it was my feet that filled the shoes for that time being, or the
fact my novelty hadn’t worn off yet, but what ever it was 1 was getting
confused from the double-sided life I was leading.

He got up from the spa tub shortly thereafter and asked me to come
wash him in the shower. It was nothing unordinary to me, I was used to
his need to be nurtured and pampered. | performed his request with a
cheerful mannerism, letting him think I was taking care of him out of my
sheer sweetness. | got the towels ready for him to get out of the shower
and towel dried him, patting his skin instead of rubbing as previously
instructed. “You know you have a very maternal instinct, you'll make a
fine mother someday”, he would constantly acclaim at my gentleness. “I
hope so” I replied, 1 would love to have my own babies one day, but not
any time soon”. Laughing at the very thought of that.

We walked up the steps and through the French doors into the gym’s
adjoining massage room, It was smaller room than in his other houses,
placing the emphasis on the large massage bed in the center. I grabbed
another clean towel to keep him warm while I prepared the music, lights,
and oils. He liked me to use mostly lavender or other aromatherapy
scents, which reminded me of woodlands in the spring. Always enjoying
the beginning of the massage, I put my heart and soul into training in my
profession. I could just close my eyes I would see only with my hands the
areas that needed the most work, and even though I wasn’t a professional
yet, Jeffrey could feel and told me there wasn’t many that could please
him during a massage being untrained. I’m sure now it was just

47

©] Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004180

something he’d say nice to all the girls, but in the time I had known him I
could honestly say it wasn’t like him to compliment girls in any other
way than regards to a sexual performance or their looks. I was flattered at
his praise and when the massage was over, so were the sentiments. I was
back to being used for my body and what I could do with it.

With him satisfied and off for a nap, I could go do what ever I wanted,
like usually 1 would go down to the stables or something adventurous, but
today T was ina melancholy mood, just wanting to relax and unwind
myself in a giant tub in my bathroom. | got out some of the oils I used on
Jeffrey putting them in the steaming water and popped two of my Xanax
pills, forgetting about my troubles and focusing on the quiet moment at
hand, just wanting to soak up the peacefilness of it. Nearly slipping away
to sleep in the tub, I was startled when I got the call on the intercom to
come down for dinner.

Everybody seemed in good spirits at dinner, which helped to lift mine.
We all ate our meals and went into the movie room to watch a newly
released movie. It was a ritualistic scenario, most nights that everyone
was at ease we would all sit in one of his various located movie rooms
and hang out together. Just as he always would Jeffrey asked Emmy and
me to both grab a foot during the movie that night and just keep
massaging through the film. We were always on call for duty, no matter
where we were or what ever time it was. He would just plop a foot up or
pass over his hand at any given time and require a massage, even if the
film went on for over two hours, I would still be required to sit on the
floor rubbing his feet or hands, and even his scalp at times. After the
credits had rolled Ghislane got up to close the door to the room and I
knew she had received the signals herself and would proceed to
manipulate, violate, and use us to satisfy Jeffrey’s urges once more before
he went to bed.

The blue illumination from the empty T.V screen was glaring in the
tenebrous room as we watched her undress in a light that relied on the
reflection of the moon through the windows peek to show it’s proceeding
display. She walked back to the sofa where I was sitting at Jeffrey’s feet
still rubbing away and uncovered her shirt displaying ample bosoms for
his appeal. Approaching me like a lioness hunting her prey she stood me
up and led me to the other couch across from Jeffrey and situated herself
on top of me, sliding her fingers through my dress to unbutton my attire,
revealing my girlish figure and two small peaks. Pushing my head into
her breasts I was being fondled by Emmy at the same time, which took
her cue when she saw Ghislane look in my direction. From an occasional
glance upwards, [ could see that Jeffrey was up to his methodical foreplay
stroking his manhood while watching the build up to his main event.
They both took turns making me moan from their touches and when

48

{] Copyright Protected Material

GLUPFREO04 181

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021168
