80

resided in America. This U.S. residence meant, as Snowden knew, the NSA would be legally
barred from monitoring his communications. He used Lee, who was the chief technology officer
at the Freedom of the Press Foundation, as the encrypted gateway to Poitras who, it will be
recalled was a founding Board member of that small foundation. Lee also was well-connected to
others with whom Snowden had contacted for his crypto party. Lee had been an associate of
Runa Sandvik’s at TOR and was a prominent member of Noisebridge, an eclectic anti-
government hackers’ commune based in Northern California, of which Appelbaum was also a
member.

To contact Lee, Snowden chose the alias Anon108. Anon was an alias frequently used by
members of the Anonymous commune of hacktavists. “I’m a friend.” Snowden wrote Lee. “I
need to get information securely to Laura Poitras and her alone, but I can’t find an email/gpg key
for her.” The “gpg” encryption key he asked for, more commonly called a PGP key, was the so-
called public key for an encryption system called Pretty Good Privacy, or, for short, PGP. This
encryption system required both a public and private key. Snowden asked Lee to provide the
former one, since Poitras had the latter one. Lee wrote Poitras about “anon108.” The next day,
with the approval of Poitras, Lee supplied Poitras’ public key to Snowden, or, as he knew him,
Anonl08.

With it, Snowden now contacted Poitras directly. He asked her as a first step to open an
anonymous email account using TOR software. He was now in contact with three members of
the Freedom of the Press Foundation—Greenwald, Lee, and Poitras. (Sandvik would join the
foundation in 2013.)

Poitras later wrote about this initial contact: “I was at that point filming with several people
who were all being targeted by the [US] government.” The people she was filming included
Appelbaum, Assange, and two former NSA employees, William Binney and Thomas Drake. It
was in the midst of this project when she received the email from Anon108 aka Edward Snowden.

He next asked Poitras her take out a new enciphering key to use exclusively for her liaison with
him. It provided them both with an extra layer of protection from any surveillance by law
enforcement. Presumably, she accommodated his requests because she anticipated that the
anonymous person would use this encrypted channel to send her highly-sensitive material.

On January 23, 2013 Snowden wrote Poitras under yet another alias. This time he called
himself “Citizen Four.” He wrote: “At this stage I can offer nothing more than my word.” He
then said falsely, “I am a senior government employee in the intelligence community.” She had
no way of knowing at this “stage” that, despite giving her his “word,” he was not who he claimed
to be. He was not a “government employee, “ he was not a “senior” official and he was a
member of the “intelligence community” (which is composed of the intelligence services of the
U.S. government .) He would later also claim to her that he had been “a senior adviser to the
CIA” and “a senior adviser to the DIA.” In fact, he had never held such position at either

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020232
