does not imply that there will be a demise of the dollar, or that fewer people
in the world would speak English in protest. If anything, I’m worried that a
sharp rally in the dollar could trigger another financial crisis in EM... Don’t
get me wrong, I do not believe the dominance of the dollar is good for the
global financial/monetary system. But it is a trend that is difficult to reverse,
unless the structural integrity of the EUR is enhanced, and the foundations of
the RMB market are improved. Increasing returns to scale have made
English/dollar popular, and it will be increasingly difficult to challenge their
roles as the world internationalizes. (5) The BIS recently published an
interesting and important paper (‘The Dollar, Bank Leverage and the
Deviation from Covered Interest Parity,’ by H.S. Shin et al., BIS WP 592)
on how a stronger dollar could lead to a tightening in lending conditions in
the rest of the world, including EM. ‘/7/he value of the dollar plays the role
of a barometer of risk-taking capacity in capital markets. In particular, it is
the spot exchange rate of the dollar which plays a crucial role... [T]he
strength of the dollar is a key determinant of bank leverage... Our results
point to the financial channel of exchange rates, through which fluctuations
in the strength of the dollar set in motion changes in capital market
intermediation spreads that respond at a high frequency... [I]t is when the
domestic currency appreciates, financial conditions in that country loosen,
and CIP deviations narrow... [A] strengthening of US dollar has adverse
impacts on bank balance sheets, which, in turn, reduces banks’ risk bearing
capacity.’ The findings of this paper are consistent with two of the points
made above, that we may re-enter a phase that is not that positive for EM
currencies and that the dominance of the dollar as an international currency
is having unintended consequences for the rest of the world, out of line with
the local fundamentals.

Trump and Europe. Political and social pressures have returned to Europe,
and could continue to accentuate the centrifugal forces in the region. There
are many risk events on the horizon, including the Austrian Presidential
election on December 4 (the worry here is a victory for Mr Norbert Hofer of
the far right party), the Italian referendum on Constitutional reform on
December 4 (while a ‘no’ outcome is largely priced-in, an actual ‘no’
outcome may trigger a series of events in Italy that might pose some
downside risks to Italian banks and in turn other European banks), the Dutch
parliamentary election on March 15, 2017 (the worry here is further
advances by the far right party led by Geert Wilders), the first round of the
French presidential election on April 23 and the second round on May 7, UK
local elections on May 4 (this will be the first major electoral test for PM
May), and finally German regional elections on May 7 and 14 and the
parliamentary election in September. (1) I don’t think the direction of
causality runs from Trump to Europe, but that the underlying forces
propelling both Brexit and Trump are the same forces that are pushing the
political centre of mass to the right in Europe. This direction of causality is

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026642
