PROLOGUE:
AILES AND BANNON

he evening began at six-thirty, but Steve Bannon, suddenly among the world’s most
powerful men and now less and less mindful of time constraints, was late.

Bannon had promised to come to this small dinner arranged by mutual friends in a
Greenwich Village town house to see Roger Ailes, the former head of Fox News and the
most significant figure in right-wing media and Bannon’s sometime mentor. The next day,
January 4, 2017—little more than two weeks before the inauguration of his friend Donald
Trump as the forty-fifth president—Ailes would be heading to Palm Beach, into a forced,
but he hoped temporary, retirement.

Snow was threatening, and for a while the dinner appeared doubtful. The seventy-six-
year-old Ailes, with a long history of leg and hip problems, was barely walking, and,
coming in to Manhattan with his wife Beth from their upstate home on the Hudson, was
wary of slippery streets. But Ailes was eager to see Bannon. Bannon’s aide, Alexandra
Preate, kept texting steady updates on Bannon’s progress extracting himself from Trump
‘Tower.

As the small group waited for Bannon, it was Ailes’s evening. Quite as dumbfounded
by his old friend Donald Trump’s victory as most everyone else, Ailes provided the
gathering with something of a mini-seminar on the randomness and absurdities of politics.
Before launching Fox News in 1996, Ailes had been, for thirty years, among the leading
political operatives in the Republican Party. As surprised as he was by this election, he
could yet make a case for a straight line from Nixon to Trump. He just wasn’t sure, he
said, that Trump himself, at various times a Republican, Independent, and Democrat,
could make the case. Still, he thought he knew Trump as well as anyone did and was eager
to offer his help. He was also eager to get back into the right-wing media game, and he
energetically described some of the possibilities for coming up with the billion or so
dollars he thought he would need for a new cable network.

Both men, Ailes and Bannon, fancied themselves particular students of history, both
autodidacts partial to universal field theories. They saw this in a charismatic sense—they
had a personal relationship with history, as well as with Donald Trump.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019883
