One example of a bad, weird dynamic is the one true way thing. Some people act like
there are right ways and wrong ways to do consensual BDSM -- as if some
consensual BDSM is more legit than other consensual BDSM. Often, people do this via
what we call role policing”: they make claims about real submission” and real
dominance. (Even worse, people will sometimes act like dominant people are socially
better or more important” than submissive people. Or they'll act like men are
inherently dominant, or women are inherently submissive. It's a clusterfuck! Thomas
MacAulay Millar has a great essay about this called Domism.)

Examples of role policing might include:

* If you were really submissive, then you would be serving my dinner right now instead
of having me serve myself.

* If you were really dominant, then you would pay for my drinks.”

* If you were really submissive, then you wouldn't be confident enough to write a blog
about your sex life. (Not that I'm biased or anything.)

Sometimes these are hilarious light-hearted jokes. But sometimes they're not. Sometimes
they're bullshit, and they make people feel as though they're bad at submission or bad
at dominance.” Also, it gets really silly when we start thinking about switches -- people
who can feel comfortable in the dominant role or the submissive role, such as myself.

One very common, relevant assumption is that dominant people always enjoy inflicting
pain: that sadists and dominants are always the same group. They're not! Sometimes
people are into sadism, or into dominance, or maybe they're into a lot of sadism but a
little dominance, or whatever. The same thing goes for submission: sometimes people are
submissive and like taking pain, but sometimes people are submissive without being
masochistic, or maybe they're into a little bit of submission and a lot of masochism, or
whatever.

Or maybe they're masochists who like ordering their partners to hurt them. I once threw a
memorable party at which my then-boyfriend, a mostly-submissive gentleman, arranged
for a bunch of our friends to grab me and hold me down while he ate cake off my body.
As he did this, I clearly recall shouting at him: You better hurt me, or I'm going to
safeword on your ass. So he hurt me! It was great.

Because submissive and masochist aren't always the same thing -- and dominant
and sadist aren't always the same thing -- the BDSM community uses the terms
bottom and top. A bottom is a blanket term for a submissive and/or a masochist --
the receiving partner. A top is a blanket term for a dominant and/or a sadist -- the
partner who is providing sensation. The point is to have words that indicate who is giving
and who is receiving, without making claims about each partner's preferences. (These
words can also be used as verbs. For example, if 1 am topping, then I am in the
dominant and/or sadistic position.)

And yet! Even though we have these handy terms top and bottom, which are
specifically designed to help us avoid making assumptions, people end up making
assumptions. There are two common BDSM community phrases that are often deployed

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018544
