RAFANELLI

Billy Evers
Biography

In the eyes of Billy Evers, inspiration is everywhere. Art, theater, fashion and music are
all fair game; they’re the moving parts of what makes an event come together as a
whole. As creative director at Rafanelli Events, Billy takes each occasion that he plans
and carefully balances the details. Whether he’s dreaming up a wedding in Maine or a
multi-million dollar hospital fundraiser, his role is to create, to imagine and to edit, from
the very first client interaction until the final guest goes home. “The events we create are
always evolving,” Billy says. “The tweaking, the adding, the making sure everything’s
precise—it’s something | pride our company on. We're always perfecting what we do.”

Billy first teamed up with Bryan Rafanelli 10 years ago, only a few years after the
company’s inception in 1996. “I was living in New York, but would come to Boston
socially,” Billy says. “Bryan asked me to help out and things literally went from zero to
100 in six weeks. Before | knew it, | was living here, an extremely active member of
Bryan’s growing team.”

Billy’s background lends itself well to his role at Rafanelli. Prior to joining Bryan’s team,
he worked for a number of years in New York, running a high-end fashion boutique on
Madison Avenue. This experience allowed him to travel the world, exposing him to an
endless range of arts and culture. “All of it, together, has become the perfect resume for
what | do now,” Billy says. “When | see a room, | see it in a theatrical way. | draw from
my love of film, my reservoir of experience in art and fashion, my passion for music.”

All of these influences play an invaluable role in Billy’s creative process. “I get involved
with film, photography, fabric, accessories, lighting, the smell of a place—the entire
sensory experience,” he says. But beyond the individual details, Billy is responsible for
dreaming up a concept. “Rafanelli is unique in terms of how broad our range is and what
we’re capable of doing,” he says. “We’re so not about ‘just a party’. What we're doing is
a whole new style of event. Concepting and branding meet smart design, value and
integrity. | love the challenge of it all.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029333
