; One year is my guesstimate After 4 years of telling you , that you could do better than Halperin, : im glad
that you now are willing to follow barrys advice . I take no offense , in fact I take comfort in the fact that after
only one conversation with Barry you are now convinced to make that change . will take a year or more.

I expect as a friend you will understand that

I will no longer , not even for one day , work on your affairs . without the compensation that is long
overdue. . your unilateral idea of after care , not imposed on any other professional , except me, not paul
weiss ,( caesars alone , a direct screw up on their part ) tom, akin, , no one. needs toend.. you and I had
previously agreed no more of that , and this after you decided not to pay me per our agreement. to be fair I can
not say im surprised as you have email after email , stating that , if you save a great deal of money, you
wont want to pay , so limit it to 40m per year. - water under the bridge

If I can find the time to work , on your project , which is not by any means certain as I have said, I hope
you understand that it now will have to be under my standard terms and conditions. and well documented so as
to avoid any more of the he said she said. I never want to have any more uncomfortable money moments with
you , I find it very distasteful. . soto be clear , my terms are as follows. I will only work for the usual 40
million per year. It needs to be paid, 25 million upon signing an agreement . 5 million every 2 months
thereafter for 6 months ie march may june . this can begin ifiam able in January. I will immediately stop
work , if the payment is not received. If you want me to work this year until Jan 15, it will be 10
million. paid upfront. after one year you will be left with a new estate plan a running office. staffed with
professionals overseen by Barry. (hallelujah ) a tax plan . and an investment that returns more than any
painting you could possible own. _. no agreement - no work. however - I of course will talk to Barry for the
hour that i promised , and take your guidance as to what I should say.

10n Apr 6, 2018, at 11:15 AM, Jeskewitz, J carminc inn wrote:

I’m in touch with Lesley and I, we will work together on these reservations.
All my best,'sep'Jeannine

On Tue, Apr 3, 2018 at 5:43 PM, Lisa Emelia Svensson iit: wrote:

Air France has a strejk ... so French
Trying to rebook later in the week Will let you know

3 apr. 2018 kl. 16:29 skrev jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com>:
im in paris now

Date: Tue, Nov 15, 2016 at 6:13 AM
Subject: Fwd:

Leon, Congragulations on biting the bullet. at least 18 months late , but Im encouraged and glad for
you. When you interviewed Brad two years ago you asked that i not tell him what a disaster lay before
him. what would you like me to tell Barry?

There is a HUGE amount of work to be done in the next 9 -12 months. mostly the exact same work that i
outlined in my email of 2 years ago. now complicated by years of mess on top. ( you can send it again if you
like ). Brad wechsler was never up to the task . sorry, I realize I have been saying the very same thing for a
long time. he was a not a step up from Eileen but a step sideways. in the beginning there was Eileen and
Tom and Ralph Lerner. all your hand picks. then brad. john, Joe. . joslin was chosen from a pool of 2
people. each that would be limited by a salary of 250k. ( yes 1 personally augmented his comp in order to get
him ) I did say hire both Lisa to do the bookkeeping and joslin tax, | He complained for over a year , re his
direction by eileen and ada , and then brad. His breakdown was not a surprise after months and moths of
warnings. Though disabled, he ran your office this year. with john and joe. He ran amok, and as i told

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023323
