I wrote this in early 2012, when everyone and their brother was talking about the
amazingly successful fanfiction-turned-BDSM-smut Fifty Shades of Grey trilogy, by E.L.
James. (The online version of this post contains a bunch of relevant current links at the
end.) It's one of my rare attempts at pegging an article to a recent news item; I had been
planning to write this article for months, but Fifty Shades gave me an opportunity to
actually do it. My main goal as a sex writer has always been to put forth analysis that's
responsive to the conversations I hear a lot, yet independent of the latest craze. For one
thing, I almost never care to track what Everyone Is Talking About Right This Minute!!,
and I'm irritated to think that I ought to do so. But I've come to reluctantly understand
that responding to current news is one of the best ways to get more eyeballs on my work,
so I'm trying to do more of that. I've also been encouraged in that direction by employers
-- most notably the gender-lens website RoleReboot.org, where I took on the role of Sex
+ Relationships Section Editor in late 2011. A slightly shorter version of this article was
originally published there.

te Kk ok

Fifty Shades of Grey, Fight Club, and the Complications of Male Dominance

Much is being made of the highly successful S&M erotica novel Fifty Shades of Grey.
People are blaming feminism for making women into submissives, blaming feminism for
preventing women from being submissives, blaming women for having sexual desires at
all, and a whole lot of other boring and typical stuff that comes up in any conversation
about women and S&M. News flash: it's not the feminist revolution that is causing
women to have fantasies of submission. S&M fantasies have been around since the
beginning of time. (And the 1950s S&M-sensation book, The Story of O, was much better
written than Fifty Shades of Grey.)

As an S&M writer, I hear a lot of allegations about how all (or almost all) women are
sexually submissive and how this must Mean Something. This is echoed in the coverage
of Fifty Shades of Grey, in which everyone is demanding to know What It All Means
About Women. I've already taken on these questions as they apply to women. But there's
another submerged question here -- about men. There's plenty of talk and stereotypes
about how men are inherently violent, or more aggressive than women, or the dominant
sex.”

As I said in my previous article: I think it's quite questionable whether women are
inherently submissive,” but my conclusion is that I don't care. It doesn't actually matter
to me whether women in general are inherently submissive” (though I really don't think
women are), or whether submissive women's preferences are philosophically Deep And
Meaningful (though I'm not convinced they are). What matters is:

1. How women (or any other people) can explore sexually submissive preferences
consensually,

2. How women (or any other people) can compartmentalize submissive preferences so
that their whole lives are safe and fulfilling and happy, and

3. How women (or any other people) can be treated well in arenas that aren't even
relevant to their sexuality -- like the workplace.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018550
