and-effect explanations of behavior that
give a sense of predictability and
control. A meteorologist may know that
a hurricane may strike here or there
depending on environmental conditions.
Lacking such knowledge, a hurricane
that strikes here rather than there may
lead people to invoke a mindful agent—
such as a God—to explain that action.

Projecting. If introspection
makes your own mind visible, then you
might assume that those who look
similar to you on the outside might look
similar to you on the inside as well.
Indeed, animals that move at a
humanlike speed (such as a horse) seem
more mindful to people than do animals
that move either much slower (such as a
sloth) or much faster (such as a
hummingbird).'' And an agent that look
humanlike, such as a computerized
avatar with human face, seems more
mindful than avatars that do not look
humanlike. Any parent knows how well
toy makers love to capitalize on this
tendency. But it is the converse of this
effect that is even more interesting—
other minds become less visible as the
agent becomes less similar to the self.
Others that differ from you in their
interests, nationality, or social status are
likely to be seen as less mindful—less
thoughtful, less likely to experience
complicated emotions, less able to
experience pain or suffering—than those
that are similar to you. It is little
wonder, then, that the history of human
conflict is filled with instances of people
dehumanizing radically different others,
treating them like mindless animals or
objects.’

Why Minds Matter

It may not be obvious to you why
it matters that your neighbor, every now
and then, thinks that her computer has a

Page |97

mind of it’s own, that a mayor believes
that God punished his city by sending a
hurricane, or that you truly believe that
your pet poodle is thoughtful and
considerate. Some of these attributions
of mind seem purely metaphorical and
therefore unimportant, as ways of
speaking rather than ways of believing,
whereas others seem to represent
genuine beliefs about the real presence
or absence of another social mind. But
metaphors have a way of influencing
behavior in ways that are consistent with
believing the metaphor to be literally
true. People metaphorically refer to
feeling dirty after behaving unethically,
and yet washing one’s hands actually
reduces the guilt that people report
feeling from engaging in unethical
actions.'? People are surely just
speaking metaphorically when they refer
to rejection as being given the cold
shoulder, and yet research demonstrates
that people do indeed report feeling that
a room is colder after someone has just
rejected them than after someone has
just accepted them.'* And surely people
are only speaking metaphorically when
they refer to the stock market as anxious
or jittery, and yet describing the market
as mindful leads stock traders to believe
that trends are likely to continue whereas
describing the market as mindless leads
traders to predict more random
variability.'” Whether metaphorical or
literal, seeing other agents as mindful
matters because people tend to treat the
agent as if it has a mind. That matters
for at least three major reasons.

First, mindful agents have both
intentions and the capacity for self-
control. Mindful agents can therefore be
held responsible for their actions.
Possessing a guilty mind (mens rea) is
necessary for being held criminally
responsible for a crime in the US, a

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021343
