in tones of disgust and irritation. One of those phrases is topping from the bottom.” The
other phrase is service top.”

Topping from the bottom” indicates a person who exercises power in the relationship,
despite being in the bottom position. There's nothing wrong with doing that, as long as
both partners consent. But some people talk about topping from the bottom” like it's bad
-- as if power ought to belong to one side or the other; as if the bottom should never
express preferences or make decisions about what's going on. Which is ridiculous.

I'll grant that it can be annoying if I'm trying to be a top, and my partner isn't listening or
isn't doing what I want. But in those cases, it's important to pay attention to what is
actually going on. Is my partner resisting because he actually doesn't want to do what
we're doing? In that case, I should respect his preferences. Or maybe my partner is
resisting because he wants me to punish him. Or maybe we just have bad chemistry!
Whatever. The point is, topping from the bottom” isn't inherently a bad thing. Topping
from the bottom doesn't make the bottom into a bad submissive or whatever. It just
means that either the person is trying to communicate, or the person is looking for a
certain kind of push-pull dynamic.

Simultaneously, there's the phrase service top. It's basically the same thing in reverse. A
service top is a top who enjoys topping in line with his partner's desires. And once
again, some people act like this is a bad thing -- as if service tops aren't dominant
enough.” But it's not inherently a bad thing! Ifa service top is doing things just because
her partner likes them... then good for her!

I sometimes use phrases like topping from the bottom and service top to describe
dynamics of a relationship: to talk about what is actually going on. But that's because I
don't think there's anything wrong with topping from the bottom or being a service top. I
try to avoid joking around about it unless I know that the person I'm talking to is not
sensitive about the topic. And I really don't like it when people use those phrases while
role policing.

BDSM can carry an incredible emotional charge, and a lot of the time, people will want
comfort and snuggles after doing BDSM together. Sometimes, part of that comfort and
snuggles includes reassuring the partner: I know you just beat the shit out of me until I
cried; I enjoyed it -- I still like you and think you're a good person. Or, I know you
called your safeword while I was hurting you; I still think you're a beautiful submissive
and you did a great job -- in fact I love it when you call your safeword because it helps
me understand you better. I think that in these cases it's totally okay to say something
like, You're such a good submissive. But it's so important to keep in mind that there
isn't some kind of submission that's inherently better than any other kind -- or
dominance that's better -- or sadism, masochism, whatever.

And here is the part of the entry where I pull aside the mask and reveal that even though I
claimed I wouldn't talk about consent... I was secretly talking about consent all along!

The consent problem here is that role policing can be used to mess with people's
consent, because role policing can be used to pressure people. If a person wants to feel
like a real submissive,” and you tell them that real submissives always receive anal

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018545
