exploited by not only Epstein but also Epstein’s “adult male peers, including royalty,
politicians, academicians, businessmen, and/or other professional and personal
acquaintances” — categories Clinton and acquaintances of Clinton fall into; (f) flight
logs showed that Clinton took many flights with Epstein, Ghislaine Maxwell, Sarah
Kellen, and Adriana Mucinska, -- all employees and/or co-conspirators of Epstein’s that
were closely connected to Epstein’s child exploitation and sexual abuse; (g) Clinton
frequently flew with Epstein aboard his plane, then suddenly stopped — raising the
suspicion that the friendship abruptly ended, perhaps because of events related to
Epstein’s sexual abuse of children; (h) Epstein’s personal phone directory from his
computer contains e-mail addresses for Clinton along with 21 phone numbers for him,
including those for his assistant (Doug Band), his schedulers, and what appear to be
Clinton’s personal numbers. Based on this information, I believed that Clinton might
have relevant information to provide in the cases against Jeffrey Epstein and
accordingly provided notice of a possible deposition.

16. Epstein alleges that Tommy Mottola was improperly noticed with a deposition. I did
not notice Mattola for deposition. He was noticed for deposition by a law firm
representing another one of Epstein’s victims — not by me.

17, Epstein alleges that there was something improper in the fact that I notified him that I
intended to take the illusionist David Copperfield’s deposition. Copperfield was
properly noticed because: (a) Epstein’s housekeeper Alfredo Rodriguez testified that
David Copperfield was a guest on several occasions at Epstein’s house; (b) according to
the message pads confiscated from Epstein’s house, Copperfield called Epstein quite
frequently and left messages that indicated they socialized together; (c) Copperfield
himself has had similar allegations made against him by women claiming he sexually
abused them; (d) one of Epstein’s sexual assault victims also alleged that Copperfield
had touched her in an improper sexual way while she was at Epstein’s house. Based on
this information, I believed that Copperfield might have relevant information to provide
in the cases against Jeffrey Epstein and accordingly provided notice of a possible
deposition.

18, Epstein alleges that there was something improper in the fact that I identified Bill
Richardson as a possible witness against him in the civil cases. Richardson was
properly identified as a possible witness because Epstein’s personal pilot testified to
Richardson joining Epstein at Epstein’s New Mexico Ranch. See deposition of Larry
Morrison, October 6, 2009, at 167-169. There was information indicating that Epstein
had young girls at his ranch which, given the circumstances of the case, raised the
reasonable inference he was sexually abusing these girls since he had regularly and
frequently abused girls in West Palm Beach and elsewhere. Richardson had also
returned campaign donations that were given to him by Epstein, indicating that he
believed that there was something about Epstein that he did not want to be associated
with. Richardson was not called to testify nor was he ever subpoenaed to testify.

19. Epstein alleges that discovery of plane and pilot logs was improper during discovery in
the civil cases against him. Discovery of these subjects was clearly proper and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013367
