TERSON

s, Jeffrey Epstein and Ghis-
what they wanted, including
as in New York and Florida,
sically every day and it was
) have sex with Epstein many

rything a man wanted me to
ing—they wanted me to be
f the men they were going to
loved that I was very compli-
mouth shut about what they

Iso told me that they wanted
them in addition to perform-
d me to pay attention to the
nted, so I could report back to

apes of bettering my life, from
| of Epstein. Epstein told me he
aother that I was working for
go, go far away.” Epstein had
1 if I left I would be in big trou-
f illegal and bad behavior by
ft Epstein, he knew all kinds of
we had me killed or abducted,
f that if I did not obey him. He
ny people in high places. Speak-
an get away” with things. Even
hat this meant and it scared me,

136

‘
4
*
bes
c
5
1

Firtuy Ricu

15. I visited and traveled with Jeffrey Epstein from 1999
through the summer of 2002, and during that time I stayed
with him for sexual activities at each of his houses (or man-
sions) in locations including New York City, New York; the
area of Santa Fe, New Mexico; Palm Beach, Florida; an
island in the U.S. Virgin Islands; and Paris, France. I had sex
with him often in these places and also with the various peo-
ple he demanded that I have sex with. Epstein paid me for
many of these sexual encounters. Looking back, I realize that
my only purposes for Epstein, Maxwell, and their friends
was to be used for sex. .

16. To illustrate my connection to these places, I include
four photographs taken of me in New Mexico [see insert page 3
for one of the photographs mentioned]. The first one is a
museum in Santa Fe, New Mexico. We had gone sightseeing for
the day. Epstein took this picture of me. I was approximately 17
at the time, judging from the looks of it. At the end of the day
we returned to Epstein’s Zorro Ranch. The second picture is me
on one of Epstein’s horses on the ranch in New Mexico. The
following two are from wintertime in New Mexico.

17, When I was with him, Epstein had sex with underage
girls on a daily basis. His interest in this kind of sex was
obvious to the people around him. The activities were so
obvious and bold that anyone spending any significant time
at one of Epstein’s residences would have clearly been aware
of what was going on.

18. Epstein’s code word for sexual encounters was that it
was a “massage.” At times the interaction between Epstein
and the girls would start in the massage room setting, but it
was always a sexual encounter and never just a massage.

137

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022104
