Software 251

Can humans solve ‘unsolvable’ problems?

The question of whether Fermat’s Last Theorem could be solved
mechanically remained unanswered until 1970 when Yuri Matiyasevich
filled in the missing piece in Julia Robinson's proof. Matiyasevich used
an ingenious reduction method to match up sequences in Robinson's
theorem with a set of Turing machines. This showed that if Robinson's
theorem was false you could solve the halting problem and since you
can't solve the halting problem, then Robinson's theorem must be true.
All this effort proved Diophantine equations have no general algorithmic
solution. This was a hugely important result but, as we noted earlier,
Fermat’s Last Theorem is not, strictly speaking, a Diophantine. It is an
exponential Diophantine equation. We still had no definitive answer to
Fermat.

In 1972 Keijo Ruohonen and again in 1993, Christoph Baxa
demonstrated that Diophantine equations with exponential terms could
be rewritten as regular Diophantine equations with one additional
complication — the necessity of adding an infinite set of terms to the end
of the equation. In 1993, J.P. Jones of the University of Calgary showed the
logic limit for regular Diophantine equations lies at thirteen unknowns.
Matiyasevich had already pointed this out but never completed his proof.
Since infinity is greater than thirteen, all exponential Diophantine
equations are above the logic limit and, therefore, undecidable. Finally,
we have a proof that Fermat’s Last Theorem is unsolvable by a computer

— or at least by a general purpose algorithm running on a computer.
Matiyasevich went on to show many mathematical problems can be
rewritten as exponential Diophantine equations and that much of
mathematics is undecidable. For example, the Four Color Conjecture:

“Given an arbitrary map on a Euclidean plane, show the map can
be colored in a maximum of four colors such that no adjacent area
shares the same color.”

Meanwhile, Andrew Wiles, an English mathematics Professor at
Princeton had been secretly working on Fermat’s Last Theorem. When
I say secretly, he had not told anyone in his department, and only told
his wife late in 1993 when he suspected he might have a solution. He
had been working on the problem a long time, having fallen in love with
it at the age of 8! In 1995, after nearly 30 years work, he announced he

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015941
