114 Teaching Minds

very small. We keep learning about walking throughout our lives be-
cause things change.

Babies predict what will happen when they cry. They don’t start
out making such predictions. They learn to expect results that they
have already experienced. These are scripts, and I have discussed them
at length elsewhere.’ Scripts are acquired naturally as a result of re-
peated sequences of events. We predict what will happen next because
we know the script. Scripts are not normally taught because they are
readily acquired from living. But what if you want to teach them? You
might want to teach them in a situation where someone’s new job is
a script and rather than learn that job from repeated experience, there
is a desire to jump-start the process by simply teaching the script. How
can we do this?

There is also prediction that is not script-based. In other words,
there could well be a script but the predictor doesn’t know it. How can
one learn to predict well if one does not have a script?

And lastly, there is often the need to predict when there couldn't
possibly be a script because what needs to be predicted is novel, at
least to the predictor. How can the prediction be made? More impor-
tant, how can someone be taught to predict in that kind of situation?

These, then, are the three aspects of prediction: learning a script;
functioning without a script because it isn’t known; and predicting
when there is no script.

How do we teach these things? Scripts are learned through repeti-
tion. No one seeks to explain to a child that since she will be doing
something again and again, she will now memorize the steps before
she tries it out for the first time. Instead, we take the child through
the steps until she has learned them. There is no need to try to teach a
child scripts (such as how restaurants function or airplane rides go or
school procedure works). We can say some words about these things,
of course, but the learning comes from repeated practice no matter
what we do.

Teachers (and course designers) often fail to understand about
teaching scripts. Talking about what a student will have to do later will
not help that student do what he is being asked to do. We don’t learn
scripts consciously and thus aren’t likely to remember what we are
consciously told about what to do. We are conscious when we execute
a script—we are thinking about what will happen next—but not so
much in words as in expectations of next events. We don’t talk about

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023860
