TERSON

of Spanish families — including
_—had invested with Drysdale.
indreds of millions of dollars.

2 investors.
ey Epstein was help in recover-

ing stupid,” she told him.

lyn accent. They blended well
vely.

is willing to help.

e, with the money. The family
lit? A scheme. He knew some of

$ ”
_ And now the money 1s gone.

in recall that he was bad off after
tt was—from Bear Stearns. Mov-
a while. Sleeping in his lawyer's
an apartment in the Solow: Tower,

\fter all, Epstein left Bear Stearns i
t Epstein’s lifestyle was expensive. q
ien, and Ana was still in her twen- q
ctors Studio—the New York City 3
on Brando, Robert De Niro, Jack

idall been members of.
d formed a company,

sry impressive. In fac

i i iment
was running out of his apa ;

International”

t, IAG was @

Frrryy Ricu

But if Ana had known that, would she have cared? She could
already see that Epstein was brilliant. And though she would
maintain that their friendship was strictly platonic, it was Ana
who helped set Epstein on his course. Like other beautiful
women he'd cultivate throughout his life, she opened doors to
whole other kingdoms.

Ones that no boys from Brooklyn had even dreamed of.

Andrew Levander was an assistant US attorney in the Southern
District of New York’s Securities and Commodities Fraud Task
Force. He was assigned to look into Drysdale’s collapse. The case
he was building would result in fraud convictions for a number
of Drysdale executives, and even today, Levander remembers
Epstein bringing “a very attractive woman” to meet him when
Epstein came to him in the course of the investigation.

The woman was Ana Obregon.

Levander told Ana that he was already working the case. A
lawyer named Robert Gold, who was a former federal prosecutor
himself, was assisting. And now Epstein would join them in the
hunt for the monies.

In effect, DGS had built a series of labyrinths, rabbit holes,

7 deadfalls. And even investors who'd lost vast sums to the com-
| Pany were less than forthcoming when it came to speaking
 to the US attorney. Several of the investors were foreign. Some
had violated their own countries’ laws pertaining to foreign
“investments.

This was where Epstein—with his calm, confident air of

diseretion—came in.

Ana Obregon gave Epstein power of attorney over any monies

103

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021961
