CHINA DAILY Wednesday, December 27, 2017

VIEWS 9

2017 YEAR-END: Politics

Robert Lawrence Kuhn

Watchin

hen future historians recon-

struct the long history of Chi-

na, they will likely circle 2017

as ayear of significance. I’ve
seen it all this year, and attended or even
participated in the major events. I’ve con-
versed with Chinese leaders and experts,
and searched for meaning.

I didn’t appreciate the opportunity I've
had until I began reviewing the year from
China’s domestic perspective, seeking
themes and trends, discerning from what
we know about the recent past to what we
might forecast about the near-term future.
It takes no flash of insight to see the leader-
ship and vision of President Xi Jinping
headlining almost every event.

Following is the review of the meaningful
events of 2017.

a January: Xi began
the year with a memo-
rable speech at the
World Economic Forum
in Davos, Switzerland,
mounting a roaring
defense of globaliza-
tion, free trade, and
economic openness and.
liberalization. It was the
first-ever speech by Chi-
na’s head of state at
Davos and, as commentators the world over
noted with amazement and irony, as the
United States under President Donald
Trump was apparently retreating from the
world and abrogating global leadership,
China under President Xi was apparently
defending the international order and pro-
moting global governance.

March: The annual “two sessions” of the
National People’s Congress, China’s top leg-
islature, and the Chinese People’s Political
Consultative Conference National Commit-
tee, the top political advisory body, seemed
to radiate more energy than usual, perhaps
in anticipation of the 19th National Con-
gress of the Communist Party of China in
the fall. A highlight was the adoption of the
draft general provisions of civil law, a step
closer to a long-needed unified civil code.

Isensed delegates’ growing confidence
and assertiveness to represent their particu-
Jar sectors in the competitive marketplace
of public ideas and government funding, a
competition that is vital for the develop-
ment of China’s kind of consultative democ-
racy. This was especially true of the CPPCC
National Committee, whose members are
often leading experts in their fields, such
that even though they do not have legal
authority to pass laws, they have moral
authority to exert pressure and affect
change. It did not escape notice that,
throughout the “two sessions”, Xi was recog-
nized repeatedly as “core” of the CPC Cen-
tral Committee and of the whole Party.

Robert Lawrence
Kuhn

Belt and Road to the fore

May: The first “Belt and Road Summit”
(the Belt and Road Forum for International
Cooperation), held in Beijing, was the diplo-
matic highlight of the year in China. Some
130 countries participated, including 29
heads of state and government. The goal
was no less than the transformation of the
economic structure of the developing
world: building infrastructure and connec-
tivity, stimulating development, alleviating
poverty, reducing severe imbalances, pro-
moting South-South cooperation, and revi-
talizing globalization.

Xi called the Belt and Road Initiative “the
project of the century”.

July: China celebrated the 20th anniver-
sary of Hong Kong's return to the mother-
land. It was a time of reflection for the
cosmopolitan city, long a global leader in
economic freedom and competitiveness.
Hong Kong had flourished: its way of life
preserved, its economy dynamic. But times
change. With Shanghai and Shenzhen on
the rise, and with some claiming the “one
country, two systems” principle is in
decline, Hong Kong faces new challenges.

August: The People’s Liberation Army
celebrated its 90th anniversary. In a move
both practical and symbolic, the PLA estab-
lished its first overseas logistics base in Dji-
bouti, situated strategically on the Horn of
Africa.

Xi Jinping, who is also chairman of the
Central Military Commission, said the PLA
is becoming “strong” informationized
armed forces. “The Chinese people love
peace,” Xi said. “We will never seek aggres-
sion or expansion, but ... No one should
expect us to swallow the bitter fruit that is
harmful to our sovereignty, security or
development interests”,

Foreigners are wondering: what is the
PLAs long-term plan for operating over-
seas? What will be the impact of the PLAS
modernization and reform, especially its
burgeoning blue-water navy with multiple
aircraft carriers?

August: China hosted the BRICS Sum-
mit in Xiamen, East China’s Fujian prov-
ince. The five BRICS countries — Brazil,
Russia, India, China and South Africa —
have increasing influence on global econo-
my and politics, but does BRICS as an orga-
nization make sense? China certainly thinks
so, and promoted the BRICS Summit as

representing a new kind of multilateral
global governance. There are complexities:
political instabilities in Brazil and South
Africa; the growing, comprehensive cooper-
ation between Russia and China; the sen-
sitive, multifaceted relationship
between India and China.
Throughout the year, events on the
Korean Peninsula continued to
intrude. While China continued to
call for denuclearization and dia-
logue, just hours before Xi gave
the opening speech at the BRICS
Summit, the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea detonated its
most powerful nuclear bomb
ever.

19th Party Congress
and the New Era

October: The highlight of the
year was, as expected, the 19th
CPC National Congress. Not quite
expected were the far-reaching
proclamations and, taken together,
the magnitude of their significance. I
witnessed history and see six high-
lights.

First, Xi’s name and thought were writ-
ten into the CPC Constitution — “Xi Jinping
Thought on Socialism with Chinese Charac-
teristics for a New Era” Xi is now, officially,
the overarching creator and arbiter of polit-
ical thought, and combined with his desig-
nation as “core” of the CPC, he is now the
undisputed, unimpeded leader with singu-
Jar authority. Xi Jinping “thought” is built
on the twin pillars of people orientation and
national rejuvenation, with the new con-
cept of development (innovation, coordina-
tion, green, open, sharing) driving anew
kind of economic growth.

Second, the “New Era’, which is intended
as a policy-energizing game changer, is a
conceptual lens with which to view the
range of goals, strategies and concepts that
compose Xi’s way of thinking and the Par-
ty’s new direction.

The “New Era” is envisioned in three tem-
poral segments: (i) from now until the ful-
fillment of China’s first centenary goal of a
“moderately prosperous society” in 2020
(2021 being the 100th anniversary of the
CPC); (ii) from 2020 to 2035, when the CPC
states it will build on the foundation of the
moderately prosperous society so that, after
“15 years of hard work’; the country will
“basically” realize “socialist modernization”;
and (iii) from 2035 to 2050, when the CPC
states it will “work hard for a further 15
years” and “develop China into a country
that is prosperous, strong, democratic, cul-
turally advanced, harmonious, and beauti-
ful”. Realizing this vision at mid-century,
around 2050, with China being respected as
a great, modern, socialist country, is the sec-
ond centenary goal (2049 being the 100th
anniversary of the People’s Republic of Chi-
na).

Third, the new “principal contradiction”
in China’s “New Era” is between “unbal-
anced and inadequate development” and
“the people's ever-growing needs for a bet-
ter life’, which includes increasingly broad
demands for “democracy, rule of law, fair-
Ness and justice, security, and a better envi-
ronment” From now on, this new-era
principal contradiction, replacing quantita-
tive GDP growth with qualitative improve-
ment of life, is what will guide China’s
domestic affairs and policies.

Fourth, the Party’s leadership role in gov-
erning the country is expanding and the
Party’s stringent approach to governing
itself is intensifying. The Party will be more
deeply embedded within agencies of gov-
ernment and sectors of society (including
private companies, foreign businesses and
educational institutions), and by reforming
and purifying itself, the Party’s governance
will be stricter and more comprehensive.
The anti-corruption campaign, not only
continues, it has been enhanced.

Fifth, the “New Era” has China moving
closer to center stage of the world and mak-
ing greater contributions to humanity,
offering “Chinese wisdom” and “Chinese
solutions” for world problems. China’s
diplomacy will be proactive, championing
the development of a community with a
shared future for humanity and encourag-
ing the evolution of the global governance
system.

Sixth, I watched the new senior leaders of
China, the seven members of the new
Standing Committee of the Political Bureau
of the CPC Central Committee, walk out on
stage, ending months, really years, of specu-
lation and rumor. Because everything in
China reports to a Political Bureau Standing
Committee member, and because of the
Party’s principle of collective leadership,
their personalities, composition and bal-
ance determine the vision, strategies and
policies that shape China.

The importance of the Political Bureau
Standing Committee remains true today,
but its importance frankly is also less true
today. It is hard to overstate the conse-
quences of Xi’s name written into the Party
Constitution, thus inscribing into perpetu-
ity his predominant status and assuring
his continuing pre-eminence in the coun-

try’s political life.

Following the 19th Party Congress, some
might have expected a respite, a slower
November and December. They were any-
thing but.

Form is substance

November: The “state visit-plus” of US
President Donald Trump came at a delicate
moment. Amid pomp and pageantry,
including a personal tour of the Palace
Museum (Forbidden City), $253 billion in
business deals were signed, a world record,
though critics complained it was all trans-
actional, nothing structural. The number,
some said, was more form than substance,
but here, perhaps, form was substance.
Both Xi and Trump hailed the visit as “suc-
cessful and historic”.

‘Yet, on sensitive topics, one could be for-
given for seeing sunlight between their
positions. On trade, Xi lauded the business
deals and market access, “which will deliver
great benefits for the two peoples” Trump
sought improved trade with China based on
“a level playing field for our workers” and
solving the “massive trade distortion” —
which, characteristically, Trump blamed on
past US administrations, not on China.

On the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea, Xi reiterated China’s firm commit-
ment for a denuclearized Korean Peninsula
and direct communications, while Trump
said that they “agreed not to replicate failed
approaches of the past” and he called for
“increased economic pressure until North
Korea abandons its reckless and dangerous
path”,

Subsequent to Trump’s visit, China
announced revised regulations that were
indeed structural. China will reduce or
eliminate (over time) limits on foreign
ownership of financial services sectors,
including insurance, commercial banking,
securities, futures, and asset manage-
ment.

Significantly, the State Council, China’s
Cabinet, established a Financial Stability
and Development Committee to oversee
financial stability and boost risk prevention
(including close monitoring of “shadow
banking” and corporate debt). This new
supra-ministry commission will be empow-
ered to make decisions related to reform
and development, coordinate issues con-
cerning monetary policy, and establish
financial policies and related fiscal and
industrial policies, thus improving the
financial regulatory system.

At the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
Leaders’ Meeting in Vietnam, Xi strength-
ened his themes of making economic glo-
balization more open, balanced and
inclusive; lauded regional multilateralism
for promoting common interests; and
stressed the Belt and Road Initiative for
advancing global connectivity.

What struck me in Xi’s speech was what
he inserted about poverty: “To lift all the

SHI YU / CHINA DAILY

remaining poor people out of poverty is a
solemn commitment made by the Chinese
government to the people. It is uppermost
in my mind, and I have spent more energy
on poverty alleviation than on anything
else.”

“Upper most in my mind?” “More energy
on poverty alleviation than on anything
else?” An extraordinary statement from the
president! Although Xi has been making
high-profile visits to numerous poor coun-
ties and villages, relentlessly championing
“targeted poverty alleviation” for realizing
the “moderately prosperous society’; this
was his clearest statement that poverty alle-
viation is his highest priority.

Main contradiction reinforced

‘Two unpleasant events in Beijing rein-
forced the new “principal contradiction’,
highlighting “the people's ever-growing
needs for a better life” as that surprisingly
powerful lens for viewing Chinese society.
The first was alleged child abuse at a kin-
dergarten. The second was a fire in which
19 migrant workers died. In both cases, net-
izens reacted with anger: in the alleged.
child abuse, anger about a perceived cover-
up; in the fire, anger for the disorderly and
inconsiderate way of evacuating migrant
workers.

When Xi first announced the new princi-
pal contradiction at the 19th Party Con-
gress, some dismissed it as arcane Party-
speak. Public reaction to the alleged child
abuse and to the fire revealed its prescient
and perspicacious wisdom.

The second volume of Xi Jinping: The
Governance of China, a collection of 99 of
Xi’s speeches, conversations, instructions
and letters, was published. The book offers
aresource to follow the development of Xi’s
ways of thinking and ideas and to under-
stand China’s new guiding philosophy and
the specific elements that compose it.

The month ended with what may seem a
light touch when Xi called for China to
upgrade its toilets. Toilets among the year’s
highlights? Xi was serious and his point is
probative. For China to become a more civi-
lized society, the hygiene of the people must
be improved (especially in rural areas), and
for China’s tourism industry to blossom,
better bathrooms are needed. Although
China’s leader talking toilets elicits smiles,
and some say it downgrades his dignity, it
demonstrates, above all, Xi’s intrinsic com-
mitment to improve the quality of life for
the Chinese people.

December: In the first nine days of the
month, Xi engaged with four international
events, stressing common commitment to
build a community of a shared future for all
humanity.

The four engagements

To the “CPC in Dialogue with World Polit-
ical Parties High-Level Meeting” Xi

China’s year for history

described four views of the future: a world
that is safe and free of fear; prosperous and
free of poverty; open, inclusive and free of
isolation; and environmentally clean and
beautiful.

At the “Fourth World Internet Confer-
ence’; Xi asserted how the internet posed
new challenges for sovereignty, security and
development.

At the “2017 Fortune Global Forum’, Xi
called for openness and innovation to
enhance global economic growth, pledging
to liberalize and facilitate trade and foreign
investment in China.

And at the “South-South Human Rights
Forum”, Xi emphasized that “human rights
must and can only be promoted in light of
specific national conditions and people’s
needs”.

The CPC's Dialogue with World Political
Parties was path-setting in that it put the
world on notice that a transformed CPC
under Xi is reaching out globally with pride
and confidence — explaining, especially to
developing countries, the developmental
benefits of party leadership and party build-
ing. The point of debate, as it were, has
shifted from whether the China model of a
perpetually ruling party (with all that
entails) is good for China to how the China
model is good for other countries.

At a meeting of the Political Bureau of the
CPC Central Committee, Xi directed author-
ities to improve digital infrastructure, pro-
mote the integration and sharing of digital
resources, and protect data security, in
order to better serve the nation’s economic
and social development as well as to
improve people's lives. The big vision is to
turn China into a world leader in big data
and a global innovation hub for artificial
intelligence by 2030.

The last major event of the year was the
annual Central Economic Work Conference,
which identified “three tough battles” for
the next three years: preventing and defus-
ing risks (especially financial risks), elimi-
nating absolute poverty (China’s 2020 goal),
and curbing pollution (for instance, encour-
aging investment in environmental pro-
jects). Setting three-year targets was itself
an innovation (over the traditional one-year
targets), thereby strengthening long-term
thinking, reducing pressures to make hasty
decisions, and giving markets stable expec-
tations.

The priority of reducing absolute debt
was modified to controlling a rise in bor-
rowing, such that China’s debt-to-GDP ratio
does not further deteriorate. This signaled
that growth would not be jeopardized and
(to the disappointment of some) debt-driv-
en growth would continue.

To contain financial risk, China will
crackdown on irregular and illegal activities
in its chaotic financial industry and intensi-
fy regulatory scrutiny; continue supply-side
structural reform (reducing overcapacities);
and maintain a proactive fiscal policy, a
prudent and neutral monetary policy, anda
basically stable yuan exchange rate.

Resisting arguments for shrinking State-
owned enterprises, China will make SOEs
“stronger, better and bigger”; and the gov-
ernment will seek efficiencies by becoming
more of an investor and less of an operator.

China pledged to open up its markets fur-
ther and to balance trade by boosting
imports (US pressures, expressed vividly by
Trump, were not mentioned).

Theoretical foundation

After five years of “practice”, the theoreti-
cal foundation of China’s economic devel-
opment is now labeled, “Xi Jinping
Thought on Socialist Economy with Chi-
nese Characteristics for a New Era’, paral-
leling the phrase added to the Party
Constitution two months earlier. The
“thought” is based mainly on Xi’s new con-
cept of development — innovative, coordi-
nated, green, open and shared development
— which has been the core of his economic
philosophy.

For the first time at this annual confer-
ence, topics other than economics were on.
the agenda. Diverse public concerns were
addressed, such as burdensome homework
for schoolchildren, sex discrimination in
the workplace, and online scams. This was a
clear consequence of how China’s new
“principal contradiction” in the “New Era”
now drives domestic policy; as Chinese citi-
zens seek a “better life’; the government
must respond.

To pick one message to characterize the
year, it is this. In 2017, under the leadership
of Xi, China set the trajectory, in all vital
areas, of the country’s domestic develop-
ment and international engagement for the
next 30-plus years, to mid-century, to 2050.

Every year brings challenges. For China,
no doubt, big ones lie ahead. In 2018, China
will celebrate the 40th anniversary of
reform and opening-up. The world is
watching.

The author is a public intellectual, interna-
tional corporate strategist and investment
banker, and China expert/commentator. He
is co-creator (with Adam Zhu) and host of
CGTN’s Closer to China with R.L. Kuhn and
“The Watcher” commentaries.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023684
