Freedom House

Chapter 4

The Ministry of Truth in Peace and War

An early and telling sign that Vladimir Putin planned
something more ambitious than a mere tightening
of state control over political life was his decision to
return Joseph Stalin to his position in the pantheon
of great Russian leaders. Stalin's rehabilitation was
formalized in 2007, with the publication of a new cur-
riculum guide for teachers of Russian history.'

The manuals content dovetailed with Putin's broader
promotion of a narrative in which Russia is a great
power that recovered from the chaos and weakness
of the Yeltsin era and overcame the hostility of deter-
mined enemies, especially the United States. Accord-
ing to the manual, Russia's dark chapters—its domi-
nation of Eastern Europe, internal repression, Stalinist
purges—were the regrettable but understandable
responses to the country’s underdevelopment and
encirclement by foreign enemies. The new history
paints a picture of an all-wise Russian state, under
both Stalin and Putin, whose requirements always
take precedence over the needs of the individual.?

Putin took unusual interest in the preparation of the
history manual. The idea that history should be written
by historians, not political leaders, was never voiced in
public discussion. Putin later called for history textbooks
“written in proper Russian, free of internal contradic-
tions and double interpretation.’? He said the manual

was needed to clear up “the muddle” in teachers’ heads.

And in unveiling the new guide, he struck a theme
that runs through Russian propaganda in the Putin
era: Russian history “did contain some problematic

pages,” he said. “But so did other states’ histories.

We have fewer of them than in other countries. And
they were less terrible than in some other countries.”
Putin's basic message was that “we can't allow anyone
to impose a sense of guilt on us.* More broadly, Putin
was saying that a sovereign state has the right to
interpret its history in whatever way it wants, to ignore
or distort the tragic chapters, and to burnish the repu-
tations of mass murderers and thugs.

Whereas other countries simply avoid serious study
of the most shameful episodes of their histories, as
Indonesia has done with the epidemic of political

killings during the 1960s, or as China has done with
the Cultural Revolution, Russia treats the Stalin era

“Its easy predicting the future;
what's difficult is predicting the
past.”

—Soviet joke

A lie isn't an alternative
point of view.”

—Linus Linkeviéius, Lithuanian foreign minister

“The implied objective of this line
of thought is a nightmare world in
which the Leader, or some ruling
clique, controls not only the future
but the past... This prospect fright-
ens me much more than bombs.

—George Orwell, Looking Back on the Spanish War

as a time of progress during which the foundation for
modern Russian greatness was laid.>

To build a case that Russia's dark pages were “less

a

terrible” than those of other countries, Russia's official
history depicts Stalin as a strong leader who was ca-

pable of acts of cruelty but whose rough tactics were

necessary for the defense of the homeland, which was
besieged militarily by the Nazis and politically by the
capitalist powers.

Excusing the Soviet empire

The Russian leadership is especially tenacious in
defending Stalin's World War || diplomacy. Putin, for
example, has defended the Hitler-Stalin pact, the
1939 nonaggression agreement that opened the door
to Nazi Germany's invasion of Poland and carved up
much of Eastern Europe between the two totalitarian
states. While Putin called the pact “immoral” during
a 2009 visit to Poland, he defended the agreement
during a joint press conference with Angela Merkel in
2015, following Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

q

He did so in a fashion typical of current Russian propa-
ganda methods. He accused the West of trying to “hush

www.freedomhouse.org

29

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019263
