at once both individual and social.
Because both individuality and sociality
are fundamental to the human species,
we are fundamentally interdependent,
connected by invisible, yet powerful,
threads. In exploring these threads, we
have also been led to questions about
how social forces can have effects on
individuals, how the meaning that
individuals (and groups) apply to
particular phenomena or relationships
affect both behavior and biology, and
how our biology makes social
connection possible. We have used the
phrase “invisible forces” to describe the
mechanisms that account for these
effects that we essentially take for
granted, and to suggest by analogy that
they can be investigated rigorously just
as other phenomena, such as gravity or
autonomic regulation, that also are not
immediately present to our visual or
other senses can be studied.

Human minds are unparalleled at
discerning patterns in what they see
against a background of noise and
variation, and they are equally adept at
attributing meaning to them. As the
essays in this volume demonstrate
repeatedly, we readily ascribe patterns
we encounter (or seek to encounter) to
invisible forces of nature, of God, of
kinship, of genes, of culture, of love, of
social connection. A common premise
underlying the work of the network is
that what we know (or what we think we
know), and how we come to know it, are
social endeavors embedded in a shared
view of both the world and how one
talks meaningfully about the world. And
mindful of our human facility to see
patterns (even where none exist!), we are
acutely aware that constant rigorous
testing of assumptions, methods, and
arguments is necessary to make sure that

149

Page

we are not fooling ourselves into seeing
only what we hope to see.

Humans have a deep need to
create meaning in their interactions with
the world and with each other. We also
have a deep need for making
connections beyond ourselves. The
biological structure we call our brain has
evolved to reward social connection, just
as it rewards the satisfaction of hunger
or thirst. The human biology that directs
and reflects these human needs is what
we have termed the “social brain.”

It is worthwhile to reflect on the
range of invisible forces that we have
considered here. These forces operate at
several different levels, from the
molecular, to individual bodily
functions, to social groups, to societies,
to species. They include such disparate
ideas as evolutionary selective pressure
favoring social connectedness,
anthropomorphism, loneliness, social
connection, emergent phenomena,
connection to a higher being,
transcendence, empathy, language as
carrier for meaning, belief, collective
will, group synchrony, autonomic
regulation, and neural resonance. These
forces interact with one another, too:
loneliness, for instance, acting as an
internal signal of the inadequacy of
one’s bonds of social connection, with
consequent effects on health, mediated
through autonomic regulation, or the role
of belief in mediating scientific
objectivity and empathy.

It is tempting to view individuals,
both souls and bodies, as arising from
lower-level forces within, such as the
operation of specialized neurons and
regulatory biological processes. And it
is tempting to view social structures and
the forces that tend to maintain them as
arising, perhaps emergently, from the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021395
