To: Mohamed Waheed Hassan
Subject: Re:

also be advised that thorbjorn jagland is a great friend.

On Thu, Jan 17, 2013 at 3:26 PM, Mohamed Waheed Hassan <> wrote:
Hi,
Would be great if Lisa could visit us. She sounds like the right person to help us get organized.

Maldives just got elected Vice President of International Renewable Energy Agency. We are also Vice Chair
of the UN Human Rights Council. Not too bad considering we had so much bad coverage this year
internationally.

Best regards,

Waheed

Sent from President's iPad

On Jan 17, 2013, at 7:01 PM, Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote:

my friend in sweden, lisa svensson, would be perfect as your right hand orgainzing your team,, she has
diplomaitc experieince and is currently amabssador to the oceans for sweden

On Thu, Jan 10, 2013 at 11:00 AM, Mohammed Waheed Hassan i wrote:
Hi,

The campaign team is starting to come together. We are continuing discussions with Jim and tomorrow
we will meet him face to face on skype. We will brief him on the situation here so that he will be able to
advice us more effectively. Already he has sent some very useful suggestions and we are working on them.

Getting the right people to head various aspects on the campaign is difficult here but we should be able to
pull the team together shortly.

We will need some more help from lan and Rory because we are still weak on international
communication. Some old negative stuff keeps coming up in the Guardian newspaper in England. But most
of the international media is not paying much attention to Maldives right now.

| have asked Rory to help find a full time communications guy to stay here for about a year to work with
me. He doesn't have to be an expert, just a good graduate student would do. Some really positive stuff is
also happening now and we need the world to know about them.

World Energy Forum and CGI guys are here. | am meeting Clinton people in a few minutes.

| have some funding now but will ask all friends to help raise more later when things start happening in full
swing. Election is now scheduled to early September.

Hope all is well and look forward to seeing you here in the not too distant future.

Warm regards,
Waheed

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029681
