e the appropriateness of a cooperation credit in light

of the profile of the cooperating individual.

Corporate Compliance Program

Ina global marketplace, an effective compliance pro-
gram is a critical component of a company’s internal con-
trols and is essential to detecting and preventing FCPA vio-
lations.*” Effective compliance programs are tailored to the
company’s specific business and to the risks associated with
that business. They are dynamic and evolve as the business
and the markets change.

An effective compliance program promotes “an orga-
nizational culture that encourages ethical conduct and a
commitment to compliance with the law.’*! Such a program
protects a company’s reputation, ensures investor value and
confidence, reduces uncertainty in business transactions, and
secures a company’s assets.’ A well-constructed, thought-
fully implemented, and consistently enforced compliance
and ethics program helps prevent, detect, remediate, and
report misconduct, including FCPA violations.

In addition to considering whether a company has
self-reported, cooperated, and taken appropriate remedial
actions, DOJ and SEC also consider the adequacy of a
company’s compliance program when deciding what, if any,
action to take. The program may influence whether or not
charges should be resolved through a deferred prosecution
agreement (DPA) or non-prosecution agreement (NPA),
as well as the appropriate length of any DPA or NPA, or
the term of corporate probation. It will often affect the
penalty amount and the need for a monitor or self-report-
ing As discussed above, SEC’s Seaboard Report focuses,
among other things, on a company’s self-policing prior to
the discovery of the misconduct, including whether it had
established effective compliance procedures2™ Likewise,
three of the nine factors set forth in DOJ’s Principles of
Federal Prosecution of Business Organizations relate, either
directly or indirectly, to a compliance program’s design and
implementation, including the pervasiveness of wrongdo-
ing within the company, the existence and effectiveness of
the company’s pre-existing compliance program, and the

company’s remedial actions?” DOJ also considers the US.

Guiding Principles
of Enforcement

Sentencing Guidelines’ elements of an effective compliance
program, as set forth in § 8B2.1 of the Guidelines.

These considerations reflect the recognition that
a company’s failure to prevent every single violation does
not necessarily mean that a particular company’s compli-
ance program was not generally effective. DOJ and SEC
understand that “no compliance program can ever prevent
all criminal activity by a corporation’s employees;?% and
they do not hold companies to a standard of perfection. An
assessment of a company’s compliance program, including
its design and good faith implementation and enforcement,
is an important part of the government’s assessment of
whether a violation occurred, and if so, what action should
be taken. In appropriate circumstances, DOJ and SEC may
decline to pursue charges against a company based on the
company’s effective compliance program, or may otherwise
seek to reward a company for its program, even when that
program did not prevent the particular underlying FCPA
violation that gave rise to the investigation”

DOJ and SEC have no formulaic requirements
regarding compliance programs. Rather, they employ a
common-sense and pragmatic approach to evaluating com-
pliance programs, making inquiries related to three basic
questions:

e Is the company’s compliance program well
designed?

e Is it being applied in good faith?

¢ Does it work?”

This guide contains information regarding some of
the basic elements DOJ and SEC consider when evaluating
compliance programs. Although the focus is on compliance
with the FCPA, given the existence of anti-corruption
laws in many other countries, businesses should consider
designing programs focused on anti-corruption compli-

ance more broadly”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022558

