4l

and the Mediterranean. In the short period since the fall of the Soviet
Union, this has been impossible. There has been no great power with
the appetite and the will for such an adventure. But 15 years is not
even a generation, and Israel must measure its history in centuries.

It is the nature of the international system to seek balance. The
primary reality of the world today is the overwhelming power of the
United States. The United States makes few demands on Israel that
matter. However, it is the nature of things that the United States
threatens the interests of other great powers who, individually weak,
will try to form coalitions against it. Inevitably, such coalitions will
arise. That will be the next point of danger for Israel.

In the event of a global rivalry, the United States might place onerous
requirements on Israel. Alternatively, great powers might move into
the Jordan River valley or ally with Syria, move into Lebanon or ally
with Israel. The historical attraction of the eastern shore of the
Mediterranean would focus the attention of such a power and lead to
attempts to assert control over the Mediterranean or create a secure
Middle Eastern empire. In either event, or some of the others
discussed, it would create a circumstance in which Israel might face a
Babylonian catastrophe or be forced into some variation of a Persian
or Roman subjugation.

Israel's danger is not a Palestinian rising. Palestinian agitation is an
irritant that Israel can manage so long as it does not undermine Israeli
unity. Whether it is managed by domination or by granting the
Palestinians a vassal state matters little. Nor can Israel be threatened
by its neighbors. Even a unified attack by Syria and Egypt would fail,
for the reasons discussed. Israel's real threat, as can be seen in
history, lies in the event of internal division and/or a great power,
coveting Israel's geographical position, marshalling force that is
beyond its capacity to resist. Even that can be managed if Israel has a
patron whose interests involve denying the coast to another power.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031874
