custom, we both kissed on the check. We all sat down on the lounges for
some tea and biscuits while conversing idle chitchat. By the sounds of it,
Ghislane knew well of his recently divorced x-wife Fergie, whom they
were all taking turns in slandering her for one reason or another. It was
apparent there were some fresh wounds still lingering on and as good
friends do, it was their way of helping him get over her. When his
daughters were mentioned, Ghislane and Jeffrey treaded lightly, only
speaking highly of them, and offering their sympathy to the young ones.

The conversation tured to a much lighter subject. Andrew wanted to
know more about this young guest they had to join them out for dinner
and dancing that evening and then the spotlight turned on me. I was more
nervous than I had ever been before a night out with someone, probably
the build-up Ghislane and Jeffrey had hyped this meeting up to be. To
break the ice, she played her favorite guessing game...”how old do you
think Jenna is”? When Andrew guessed correctly, I was seventeen years
old, she was surprised, thinking I could have passed for younger. “I guess
we are going to have to trade you in soon” she laughed, always the first
one to throw in her quick-witted two bits, all of them chuckling along
with her. Hardly a laugh at all, unknown to me at the time his eldest
daughter is only five years my junior. I was finding it hard to make much
conversation in the beginning, just laughing when the occasion called for
it, and keeping up with Andrew’s constant glances in my direction, was
all 1 could manage.

The restaurant was a close drive for us with Andrew, his two guards and
his driver following behind us. I was seated next to the Prince for dinner
and Ghislane and Jeffrey next to each other, an evening pre-ordained. I
was supposed to flatter him with compliments and dote on his every word
spoken, but [ didn’t even do that for Jeffrey blatantly, it would’ve felt
awkward to act like a bimbo for him. Instead I remained calm, cool, and
collected, hoping that my nervousness wouldn’t spill out at any given
moment. The next place we were going was much more my style, and I
found it easier to relax. We pulled up next toa Nightclub called “Tramp”,
a member’s only nightclub, and one of the most exclusive haunts in the
world for the rich and famous to be seen for the last forty or so years
since it’s doors first opened. Andrew’s guards waited outside while we all
went in to hit the dance floor. Jeffrey being the social introvert that he
was found the first available empty seat in the corner but facing the dance
floor to spend the evening watching everyone else have fun and Andrew
went to the bar to grab us all drinks. He came back with sparkling water
for Jeffrey and a cocktail for the rest of us, already knowing that Jeffrey
never drank alcohol. We downed our glasses and made our way to the
crowded dance floor, where I had the Prince’s upmost attention. Moving
his hands across the curves of my body, not to shy away from the fact

a,

|; Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTLAL GIUFFRE0042 10

that he was in public, he was whispering sweet nothings into my ear and
kissing my neck. I would just giggle not really knowing how to reply to
an aging man with a bad smile and terrible moves, it would sound too
much of a lie if I retaliated back about his swagger. He was the most
incredibly hideous dancer J had ever seen and couldn’t help but laughing
on the dance floor and shooting glances of embarrassment to Jeffrey and
Ghislane who were having a good time laughing at my expense...as the
always did.

After an hour of pelvic smashing to the D.J’s pumping mixes we finally
exited the floor, his royal highness was dripping with sweat and ready to
embark onto a quieter scene where he said we could be alone, not
knowing that it had already been arranged for all of us to meet back at
Ghislane’s place but complied with his so called thoughtful request. | was
so anxious about getting back to the townhouse, knowing what
expectations I would have to not only have meet but also exceed in this
case. Ghislane and Jeffrey seemed impressed at my attempts to entertain
his royal highness, so far giving him exactly what he wanted the
impression that I idolized him. They told me that he really liked me and
was having a great time, so far tonight. When we got to the townhouse,
his guards walked him to the door, staying to wait outside in the car.
Ghislane met him and brought him upstairs where Jeffrey and 1 were in
the study. We all chatted in the hall for a few minutes and | was able to
have Jeffrey snap a photo of us together, one that would cause much
controversy for the Buckingham Palace in many years to come. The
conversation didn’t linger on much longer before Jeffrey and Ghislane
dispersed downstairs together, leaving me to my own sort of royal duties.
They walked away giddy as if they were teenagers imposing on young
lovers about to embark on a romantic evening.

Next to the study was the bathroom where I led him to next. The room
was dimly lit masking the light from showing the disparity in my eyes. It
was a beige marble tiled floor with porcelain Victorian style bathtub in
the middle of the room and nowhere near the size of Jeffrey’s residences.
I turned on the taps for the tub and the heat from the water began to steam
up the small room. On the basin were aromatic oils, lotions and soaps,
loving the scent of floral notes, I poured in the lavender bath oil. Trying
to do the best of my youthfulness to try and act seductive, I gradually
began to strip off my clothing, piece by piece. Giving him time to savor
the moment to come. He loved every second of it as | went over to where
he was waiting and watching, then began to undress him at a much
quicker pace. We kissed and touched each other before submersing into
the hot water, where we both continued to reenact foreplay. He was
adorning my young body, particularly my feet, caressing my toes and
licking my arches. That was definitely a first for me and I couldn’t help

78

U Copyright Protected Material

GIUFPREO042 11

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021183
