though it were new. The baby is Buddha is an Eastern philosophical aphorism that
captures the fresh spiritual state of each moment’s openness and readiness, the in-
between entropies for new information surprise. Geyer and Martin Paulus found that
entheogenic agents such as Ecstasy also increased the complexity of the patterns
of spontaneous motor movement made by rats exploring a bounded space. Recall
that they partitioned the floor to document the exploratory motion in the context of a
sequence of location transitions, readying the data for the computation of some of
the measures previously described. Following the administration of entheogenic
agents, the partitioning of the space that the animals were exploring, into a lattice of
discrete boxes and the encoding of each square with a symbol, the computable
entropic and complexity measures such as H;, Hy, AC and srs were increased. In
contrast, the administration of amphetamine-like stimulants led to a different kind of
behavioral activation than that induced by entheogenic agents. The measures of Hr,
Hu, AC and srs reflected decreases in entropy and complexity. As University of
California’s David Segal and others documented in the 1960’s, high doses of
amphetamine led to animals into in a minimal entropic state, they were frozen in
stereotyped rocking, nodding and circling motions. High dose amphetamine-treated
humans develop rigid fixation of ideas, low H7, Hv, AC and srs, in man this is seen
as inescapable obsession and paranoid delusion. There is considerable medical
evidence that Hitler took large doses of amphetamine (Benzedrine) daily for the last
20 years of his life.

The entheogenic drug-induced phenomena of naive openness and absence
of fixation, states of high entropy and complexity, behavior generating higher than
control measures tending toward maximal values of H7, Hy, AC and srs , are
subjectively reflected in the results of personal experiments of University of
Chicago’s Heinrich Kluver as described in his Mescal and Mechanisms of
Hallucinations (1966). Observing himself after the self administration of a crude
preparation of peyote cactus, he said that it led to glad feelings of unfamiliarity and
a marked reduction in his tendency for boredom (habituation), a detachment from
old ways of thinking and a new openness to a rush of seen again for the first time

experiences. Everything in his personal world, no matter how mundane, became a

116

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013616
