KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP

AND AFFILIATED PARTNERSHIPS

777 South Figueroa Street
Los Angeles, Califomla 90017

Kenneth W. Starr PF Facsimile:

To Call Writer Directly: (213) 680-8500
www.kiddand.com

November 28, 2007
VIA FACSIMILE

Honorable Alice S. Fisher
Assistant Attorney General
Department of Justice
Criminal Division

950 Pennsylvania Avenue NW
Room 2107

Washington, DC 20530

Re: Jeffrey Epstein
Dear Ms. Fisher:

« T represent Jeffrey Epstein, who, as you may be aware, was the target of a dual
investigation by both state and federal authorities in Florida for acts relating to his interactions
with numerous young women. As you may also be aware, Mr. Epstein has entered into a
Deferred Prosecution Agreement (the “Agreement”) with the United States Attorney’s Office for
the Southern District of Florida (the “USAO”) to resolve its criminal investigation of him. I am
writing to. request a meeting with you to discuss certain aspects of this case that I find especially
troublesome.

As part of the agreement Mr. Epstein was required to sign to avoid a federal indictment,

Mr. Epstein was required to waive jurisdiction and liability under 18 U.S.C. §2255 for the
_ Settlement of monetary claims that might-be made by a group of unidentified alleged victims

who will be identified by the USAO at some point in the future. Neither I, nor any of the other
defense lawyers involved in this matter, have ever héard of sucha procedure. And as part of this
Agreement, Mr. Epstein is precluded from contesting liability as to civil lawsuits secking
monetary compensation for damages brought by any of the identified individuals who elect to :
settle their civil claims for the statutory minimum of either $50,000 (the amount set by Congress
as of the date of the occurrences) or $150,000 (the amount currently set by statute) or some other
agreed upon damage amount. ‘We believe that the utilization of 18 U.S.C. § 2255 asa pre-
condition of criminal plea agreements or nhon-prosecution agreements is highly unusual and
requires careful consideration and additional guidance by your Office. We also believe that the

.

: \ Chicago Hang Kong London Munich New York . San Francisco Washington, D.C.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012656
