“ERSON

e his demise. “It was poor. It
We were very poor. We didn't
id. They had shoes, they had
the war, I discovered the fate of
thers, relatives, and neighbors.
| their minds as they realized
; chamber.”
owed by an international scan-
hundreds of millions of pounds
js and used them to prop up his
ried for conspiracy to commit
But Ghislaine, who had grown
ind counted the Duke of York,
yates, could not escape the dark

king to start fresh, she took the

| Epstein were lovers. “She was
.a longtime friend of Ghislaine'’s.

- more. Ghislaine took care of 4
She managed his household and §
rooklyn-born Jewish boys could ~

ia
ig to lawsuits and witness test> ~

if several women who procured j

ing to people who knew her back ~

in satisty
semed to take pleasure 1 7

ein to a fabulous world that

Oe a =

her father had died, so she was vulnerable, and he contacted her.
He Said, ‘Here’s my number.’

Fitrtuy Ricu

Brooklyn boy knew nothing about. One friend jokes that she
taught Epstein the difference between a fish fork and a salad fork.
But despite—or was it because of? —Maxwell’s devotion to
Epstein, she, too, graduated from girlfriend to friend status.
According to Jane Doe 102 vs. Jeffrey Epstein, a civil complaint
filed in 2009 by a woman later identified as Virginia Roberts, one
of the services Maxwell provided for Epstein was the procure-
ment of underage women. (Through her lawyer and in court
papers, Maxwell has vehemently denied any involvement with
Virginia, with any other young woman Epstein was involved
with, or with any criminal activities committed by Jeffrey Epstein.
In a 2016 answer to a defamation lawsuit brought by Roberts,
Maxwell called the allegations fabricated for financial gain.)

The case of Nadia Bjorlin, who was thirteen when she was
first noticed by Epstein, raises questions in this regard, at least
in the eyes of her mother.

Bjorlin’s Iranian-born mother spoke to a British tabloid some
years ago about her family’s disturbing experience with Maxwell
and Epstein. Bjorlin’s father, a celebrated conductor of classical
music, had died a year earlier, the mother said. She believed that
this made the girl a vulnerable and easy target.

“She was at school at the famed Interlochen Arts Center, in
Michigan, when she met Epstein,” the mother said.

“My daughter was a singer. She was a baby. She was a skinny

_ little girl, not mature for her age. She was thirteen, but everyone
4 thought she was nine or ten.

“Epstein was a big donor, and he heard about Nadia and that

¥

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021975

