54042

Federal Register/Vol. 76, No. 168/Tuesday, August 30, 2011/Rules and Regulations

the notice of a final rule, DOL rejected
commenters’ contentions that the
Executive Order and implementing
regulation were preempted by the
Board’s jurisdiction under the Garmon
doctrine.188 Necessarily, this meant that
DOL believed that the rule requiring
federal contractors to post the employee
rights notice did not involve any rights
protected by Section 7 of the Act, such
as a right to receive such information
from their employer, or conduct
prohibited by the Act, such as the
employer’s failure to provide such
information.

Not only does my colleagues’
rulemaking action today contradict
DOL’s preemption analysis, but its flaws
are manifest in comparison to the DOL’s
rule and the authority enabling it.

Conclusion!89

Surely, no one can seriously believe
that today’s rule is primarily intended to
inform employees of their Section 7
right to refrain from or to oppose
organizational activities, collective
bargaining, and union representation.
My colleagues seek through
promulgation of this rule to reverse the
steady downward trend in union
density among private sector employees
in the non-agricultural American
workforce. Theirs is a policy choice
which they purport to effectuate with
the force of law on several fronts in
rulemaking and in case-by-case
adjudication. In this instance, their
action in declaring that employers
violate the law by failing to inform
employees of their Section 7 rights is
both unauthorized and arbitrary and
capricious. Regardless of the arguable
merits of their policy choice or the
broad scope of Chevron deference and
the Board’s rulemaking authority, I am
confident that a reviewing court will
soon rescue the Board from itself and
restore the law to where it was before
the sorcerer’s apprentice sent it askew.

V. Regulatory Procedures

A. Regulatory Flexibility Act

The Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980
(RFA), 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq., requires
agencies promulgating final rules to
prepare a final regulatory flexibility
analysis and to develop alternatives

188 San Diego Bldg. Trades Council v. Garmon,
359 U.S. 236, 244 (1959)

189 Because I find the rule is invalid, I find it
unnecessary to comment on the content of the
notice or the consequences, other than finding an
unfair labor practice, if an employer fails to post the
required notice. For the reasons stated in my
dissenting opinion in /. Picini Flooring, 356 NLRB
No. 9 (2010), I also disagree with the rule’s
requirement that certain employers must also
electronically distribute the notice.

wherever possible, when drafting
regulations that will have a significant
impact on a substantial number of small
entities. The focus of the RFA is to
ensure that agencies ‘‘review draft rules
to assess and take appropriate account
of the potential impact on small
businesses, small governmental
jurisdictions, and small organizations,
as provided by the [RFA].” E.O. 13272,
Sec. 1, 67 FR 53461 (‘Proper
Consideration of Small Entities in
Agency Rulemaking’’). However, an
agency is not required to prepare a final
regulatory flexibility analysis for a final
tule if the agency head certifies that the
rule will not, if promulgated, have a
significant economic impact on a
substantial number of small entities. 5
U.S.C. 605(b). Based on the analysis
below, in which the Board has
estimated the financial burdens to
employers subject to the NLRA
associated with complying with the
requirements contained in this final
tule, the Board has certified to the Chief
Counsel for Advocacy of the Small
Business Administration (SBA) that this
rule will not have a significant
economic impact on a substantial
number of small entities.

The primary goal of this rule is
notifying employees of their rights
under the NLRA. This goal is achieved
through the posting of notices by
employers subject to the NLRA of the
rights of employees under the NLRA.
The Board will make the notices
available at no cost to employers; there
are no information collection, record
keeping, or reporting requirements.

The Board estimates that in order to
comply with this rule, each employer
subject to the NLRA will spend a total
of 2 hours during the first year in which
the rule is in effect. This includes 30
minutes for the employer to learn where
and how to post the required notices, 30
minutes to acquire the notices from the
Board or its Web site, and 60 minutes
to post them physically and
electronically, depending on where and
how the employer customarily posts
notices to employees. The Board
assumes that these activities will be
performed by a professional or business
worker, who, according to Bureau of
Labor Statistics data, earned a total
hourly wage of about $32.20 in March
2011, including fringe benefits.19° The

199 Source: U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of
Labor Statistics, “Economic News Release,” Table
B-8, June 3, 2011 (available at http://www.bis.gov).
(The Board is administratively informed that BLS
estimates that fringe benefits are approximately
equal to 40 percent of hourly wages. Thus, to
calculate total average hourly earnings, BLS
multiplies average hourly wages by 1.4. In March,
2011, average hourly wages for professional and

Board then multiplied this figure by

2 hours to estimate the average costs for
employers to comply with this rule
during the first year in which the rule
is in effect. Accordingly, this rule is
estimated to impose average costs of
$64.40 per employer subject to the
NLRA (2 hours x $32.20) during the first
year.191 These costs will decrease
dramatically in subsequent years
because the only employers affected
will be those that did not previously
satisfy their posting requirements or that
have since expanded their facilities or
established new ones. Because the final
rule will not require employers to post
the notice by email, instant messaging,
text messaging, and the like, the cost of
compliance should be, if anything,
somewhat less than the Board
previously estimated.

According to the United States Census
Bureau, there were approximately 6
million businesses with employees in
2007. Of those, the SBA estimates that
all but about 18,300 were small
businesses with fewer than 500
employees.192 This rule does not apply
to employers that do not meet the
Board’s jurisdictional requirements, but

business workers were $23.00. Table B-8.
Accordingly, the Board multiplied that number by
1.4 to arrive at its estimate of $32.20 average hourly
earnings, including fringe benefits.) In the NPRM,
the Board estimated hourly earnings of $31.02,
based on BLS data from January 2009. 75 FR 80415.
The estimate has been updated to reflect increases
in hourly earnings since that time. Those increases
have been relatively minor, and do not affect the
Board’s conclusion that the economic impact of the
rule will not be significant; see discussion below.
191 The National Roofing Contractors Association
asserts (without support) that “federal agencies
have a notoriously poor track record in estimating
the costs of new regulations on businesses”; it
therefore predicts that “the actual cost for many
employers could be considerably higher.” The
Board recognizes that some employers, generally
firms with extensive and/or multiple facilities, may
incur initial compliance costs in excess of the
Board’s estimate. For example, a company with
multiple locations may require more than 30
minutes to physically post the notices on all of its
various bulletin boards. The Board’s estimate,
however, is an average for all employers; many
small employers, especially those with only one
facility and/or limited electronic communication
with employees, may incur lower compliance costs.
In this regard, however, contrary to numerous
comments, such as that of St Mar Enterprises, Inc.,
the Board does not expect that the rule will be
“very burdensome” for businesses with more than
one facility. Normally, such firms should have to
learn about the rule’s requirements and acquire the
notices only once, no matter how many facilities are
involved. The same should be true for electronic
posting: downloading the notice and posting it on
an employer’s Web site normally should have to be
done once for all facilities. Thus, the only
additional costs involved for multi-facility firms
should be those of physically posting the notices at
each facility.
192 Source: SBA Office of Advocacy estimates
based on data from the U.S. Department of
Commerce, Bureau of the Census, and trends from
the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor
Statistics, Business Employment Dynamics.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022313
