Introduction

We published our first report on the sovereign
asset management industry in 2013 following
interviews with 43 sovereign investors. This year
marks our fifth annual study with evidence-based
findings based predominantly on face-to-face
interviews with 97 leading sovereign wealth funds,
state pension funds and central banks with assets
in excess of US$12 trillion.

Over the past five years we've noted a number
of factors influencing sovereigns such as low
interest rates, the falling oil price and reduced
funding. This year however we note geopolitical
shocks in developed markets are shaping decision
making. When coupled with uncertainty over the
end of quantitative easing, the commencement
of quantitative tightening and ongoing volatility
in currencies and commodities it’s clear sovereign
investors are faced with a challenging macroeconomic
and therefore investment environment.

The first theme in this year’s report addresses
the aforementioned factors and notes a continuing
return gap between target and actual returns with
asset deployment challenges limiting the ability for
sovereigns to match strategic asset allocation targets.
We note sovereigns are increasingly looking to evolve
their business models through internalisation or
investment partnerships to reduce management
costs and improve placement efficiency.

Geopolitical risks have led to an increased
concentration on perceived ‘safe haven’ international
markets such as the US, India and Germany as well
as an increasing focus on home market allocations
in an effort to reduce foreign currency exposure.

We focus on real estate in our third theme,
highlighting accelerated growth in the asset class.
We examine the drivers for these allocations as well as
setting out how and where assets are being deployed.

Despite sovereigns being well placed to implement
Environmental, social and governance (ESG)
strategies due to their size and long-term orientation,
the uptake of ESG practices by sovereigns appears
to have varying success. We highlight sovereigns’
polarised perspectives on ESG investing across
various regions.

We conclude with a theme focused on central
banks. This year we have expanded and segmented
our central bank sample to understand differences
in strategy and pace of change with respect to
investment tranches across developed and
emerging markets.

We hope the unique, evidence-based findings
in this year’s report provide a valuable insight into
a fascinating and important group of investors.

Alexander Millar

Head of EMEA Sovereigns & Middle East
and Africa Institutional Sales
alexander.millar@invesco.com

+44 1491 416180

Ol

Key themes

Shift from investment strategy to business model
The gap between target and actual portfolio returns
along with declines in investment commitments are

reshaping sovereigns’ strategic agendas.

Increasing appeal of perceived ‘safe haven’ markets
Geopolitical uncertainty is leading to a focus on
perceived ‘safe haven’ international markets and
home markets.

Attraction to real estate for matching and
flexible participation

Sovereigns are increasing allocations to high-quality
direct real estate given perceived return, matching
and flexibility attributes.

Environmental, social and governance (ESG)
growth dependent on performance data
Perspectives on ESG are polarised with supporters
moving to further embed and integrate ESG in
investment processes while non-supporters wait
for evidence of investment implications.

Central bank risk appetite driven by financial
market exposure

Central bank investment priorities and risk
appetite vary according to the size of the country’s
reserves and to the level of exposure to financial
market shocks.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026681
