design or intent, seem to arise from
behaviors and interactions at a lower
level of organization. How this can
come about is a puzzle, but it is a puzzle
that is amenable to thoughtful
investigation, both scientific and
philosophical. What forces are at play,
we might ask, that makes such a
collection cohesive? Just what
chemistry can transform a collection of
individuals into something both more
than and different from what in
aggregate they bring to the table? We
seek to understand more fully the bonds
of marriage, family, friendship, or
membership—invisible forces that bind
and simultaneously transform the
underlying nature of their constituents
no less than chemical bonds transform
atoms of hydrogen and oxygen into
water.

Our origin was rooted in distaste
for the unproductive and unenlightening
shouting matches between proponents of
views of science that denigrate religious
belief and views of religion that are anti-
scientific. We started from the
assumption that scholars from the
sciences and from religion and
philosophy could have fruitful
conversations about what is known, what
counts for knowledge, what can be
observed, and what can be tested
through experiment and observation.
And we all believe in the value of the
scientific method as a means for
expanding our knowledge. Internal
tension is needed for the structural
integrity of buildings and bridges, and
that is no less true of social structures
such as our network. Through
appropriate construction, deep tensions
between theology and science (or even
between scientific disciplines or
theological perspectives) that have the
potential to drive us apart can instead be

148

Page

shaped to release creative energy and
shared purpose.

Berntson notes that “beliefs and
emotions have consequences, both
behavioral and physiological.” The
network starts from the premise that one
can learn about such apparently invisible
phenomena as beliefs by studying and
reasoning about their consequences.

In his essay, Browning advocates
starting with a critical hermeneutic
phenomenology, a “careful description”
of our instruments, our observations, and
the stories we use them to tell. Clearly
articulating our assumptions and starting
points has been of immense value. After
doing so for the benefit of colleagues
outside our disciplines, those colleagues
in turn have helped us become aware of
unarticulated assumptions implicit in our
approaches or in our experiments.

These observations have led in turn to
better science and more convincing
evidence. Our colleagues in the network
have helped each of us to see more
facets of the same elephant that
individually we are too blind to
appreciate fully.

Revising our thinking and our
research to take those observations into
account has increased the rigor of our
thought and broadened the scope of our
conclusions. The presence of a rich
variety of disciplinary perspectives has
helped us to weave the nets of Sir Arthur
Eddington’s parable more tightly,
enabling us to see for the first time some
of the “smaller fish” that earlier would
have escaped our notice.

Shedding light on invisible forces (a
koan)

Invisible forces of culture,
connection, and curiosity bind us
together and define us as a species that is

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021394
