James PATTERSON F

“1 don’t know this woman. I've never been in the same place with Alan Dershowitz also ;

her. She’s made the whole story up out of whole cloth.” are part of a plot to exto

Bradley Edwards had already become involved in lawsuits q Edwards and Cassell have {
against Epstein. In 2007, working with a former federal judge i. he’s ever seen.
and University of Utah law professor named Paul Cassell, he had “They manipulated a y
filed a lawsuit on behalf of another unnamed woman. Six years \ interested in money,” Ders
later, that case is still pending, and now, Edwards and Cassell i offense, and they will be d:
petition to have the two suits combined. ; ever made this false charge

Allin all, four Jane Does take part in the lawsuit. : But then, the allegations m

Jane Doe 3 is Virginia Roberts, the girl who says that Ghis- 15, 2015, in a declaration
laine Maxwell recruited her for Epstein at Trump’s resort, ‘ q attempt to overturn Jeffrey I
Mar-a-Lago. 7 are highly disturbing.

Epstein had “lent” her and other young girls to prominent : %
businessmen, important politicians, world leaders, and other
powerful men in order “to ingratiate himself with them for busi-
ness, personal, political, and financial gain, as well as to obtain
blackmail information,” Roberts claims. ae q

She says that Epstein forced her and other underage girls to a 4
take part in an orgy in the Virgin Islands. - 3

She names Prince Andrew and Alan Dershowitz as two of the 4
men she'd been forced to have sex with and claims that Der- q

showitz had been “an eyewitness to the sexual abuse of many ~
other minors by Epstein and several of Epstein’s co-conspirators.” ;

This time, Prince Andrew does respond to the allegations. a

“This relates to longstanding and ongoing civil proceedings
in the United States, to which the Duke of York is not a party,
Buckingham Palace says ina short statement. “As such we would ;
not comment on the detail. However, for the avoidance of doubt, |
any suggestion of impropriety with underage minors is catego i

cally untrue.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022139
