How to Teach the Twelve Cognitive Processes 115

one foot going in front of the other foot or think about it very much.
So if a teacher tries to teach us about it, it is doubtful that the words
will help us much. Scripts are practiced. We can prepare for them if
that makes people happy. We can tell a child what will happen when
he rides in an airplane for the first time, but it isn’t so that he can do
what he is supposed to do so much as to make him more comfortable
and less surprised by noises or procedures that might be upsetting.
The only way to really learn a script is to do it again and again.

So what does this tell us about teaching scripts? What if we don’t
have the time to allow a student to practice? This is, of course, what
happens in job-training situations. We tell someone what to do and
hope they very quickly will learn how to do it. We can’t afford weeks
of practice. So how do we teach scripts in that case?

The answer to this depends on the number of mistakes that it
is possible to make while executing a script. The real issue in script
execution is, after all, not knowing the next steps, but knowing what
to do (or what not to do) when the script begins to falter in some
way. This means that a teacher (or a course designer) must have one
question in mind when thinking about teaching a script: What are
the most common (and most important) mistakes that are made by
novices when they execute this script?

To teach people to avoid mistakes in a script, or to teach them to
get out of difficult situations properly, one must practice those situa-
tions. This means that script teaching must focus around errors and
that it is the job of a teacher to systematically make sure that every-
thing that could go wrong, does go wrong in any practice situation.
Teaching scripts means helping the student form a case base of errors
and a case base of how to handle them. Here again, this cannot be
taught consciously. Script failures must be taught through practice.
The students must build up their own case bases by experiencing the
problem and then either think their way out of it, or learn standard
solutions as a way out of it by practicing them. So, we can speed up
the script-learning process by creating a simulation that has every im-
portant mistake built into it waiting for the student to trip up and
make that mistake.

When a script isn’t known and predictions need to be made, the
usual human procedure is to adapt on old script to serve as a tempo-
rary new one. Never been on a plane but have been on a train? Never
been in a fancy restaurant but have been to a fast-food restaurant?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023861
