as I outline above in the Klark example. Or even quicker, as for example with the hand-
squeeze system, where the participants agree ahead of time that you can squeeze another
person's hand twice and expect two squeezes back -- and if there aren't two return
squeezes, it's time to stop and figure out what's going wrong. (Squeeze system: also very
helpful when gags are involved.)

Thomas MacAulay Millar:

There are all kinds of safesigns when nonverbal communication is necessary; one being
to give the bottom an object to hold and to drop when at a limit. It has the disadvantage of
being binary, so it loses the middle step that the stoplight system provides.

Clarisse Thorn:

Sometimes submissives will have a hard time safewording -- whether out of pride,
inexperience, or eagerness to please -- and that's another reason check-ins can be good
even when there's a set safeword. If you aren't sure how to read your partner's reactions
and you suspect ze may be uncomfortable with what you are doing, then you might
consider checking in even if ze hasn't safeworded, because your suspicion may be right.

Thomas MacAulay Millar:

This can't be emphasized enough. Tops Can Never Be On Cruise Control! A safeword
gives the bottom a tool to communicate, but it does not ensure safety. The top has at least
as much information that the bottom doesn't have, as the bottom has information the top
doesn't have. Therefore, the top has to be a full participant in making sure the scene is
working and the risks are under control at all times. Anyone who thinks ze can ignore
safety as long as the bottom has a safeword is dangerous.

This post was edited to add: In the comments on this article, Dw3t-Hthr made a powerful
point that for some people, safewords are unavailable in scene. She said, in part:

[I]f I am in a place where a safeword might be necessary, a safeword is not possible. Not
just because I am someone who is regularly nonverbal, but because the altered
consciousness state that I achieve makes processing those sorts of questions at best
difficult and at worst unachievable...

But I'm not a bottom, I'm a submissive, and this isn't about wanting to please,” it's about
a psychological incapacity to recognise when I might be doing myself damage in certan
situations. If I'm not in that state, I can say Oh stop doing that it's wrenching my
Shoulder or whatever is appropriate. If I am in that state, I cannot indicate and have to
place complete trust in the judgement of my partner.

I happen to know that I'm not the only person like this. I think it's important to recognise
that safewords are not always possible. It's important, I think, to communicate to the
person who resembles me in this that while their brainwiring is not morally incorrect,
that they probably ought to think of themselves as Advanced Subjects and try to do their
thing in a context where the trust and competence required to do it safely is
demonstrated.

Also, a note on terminology: Clarisse used submissive there in a way where it's not

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018469
