a guru’s ecstatic death, Samadhi, both Gurumayi and young Nityananda became
co-gurus. Following three years of the usual covert power struggles of succession in
organizations, Gurumayi took over the guru lineage of Siddha Yoga. Her lively
brother’s worldly preoccupations with jazz drumming and confessions of promiscuity
led to his giving up of the orange robe of the denunciate, sanyasi, for the blue robe
of worldliness, exchanging one kind of energy for another.

Brad Gooch who visited Gurumayi’s Ashram in Ganeshpuri, India, wrote in
his recent book, Godta/k, that she looks like a “synthesis of Indira Gandhi and
Bianca Jagger.” In what reads like a Hunter Thompson episode in an unwritten book
called Fear and Loathing Along the Guru Trail, Godtalk’s explication of Siddha Yoga
was dominated by yellow journalistic rumors such as the one about Baba’s use of a
gynecologist’s table with stirrups for non-ejaculatory Tantric practice with some
female followers. This unconfirmed claim remains, as Gooch says, in the realm of
“...he said, she said.” Gooch’s exploration almost ignores the deeper meanings of
Kashmir Shavism, Buddhism and Kundalini Yoga that compose the philosophical
foundations of Siddha Yoga. The importance of knowing, loving and becoming one
with the God within trivializes all but ungenerous or hurtful interpersonal behavior.
Even the tougher version of the Ten Commandments in Leviticus 19 would not
necessarily disagree.

When a Los Angeles Times reporter tried to chide Baba about being driven
about in his “worldly” Mercedes sedan, he explained that a very wealthy Indian
merchant had given it to him and “...| have to put my behind somewhere.” Similarly,
why would Gooch’s account of Baba’s Tantric practice, even if true, ruin the imago
of him in my mind unless | had already surrendered to the pantheon of good and
evil absolutes of Judeo-Christian taboo? My knowledge of these non-materialistic
meanings of apparent materialism began with one of the favorite finds of Baba’s
youthful days of guru hunting: Zipruanna, who, wearing only a loincloth spent all
day, every day, on a stool in the middle of a garbage dump. Remarkable changes
occurred in people who spent time there in his presence. Baba said the identity of
guru was established by the results experienced by those that spent time in his

presence. It could not be defined by the physical features or ritual conduct of the

48

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013548
