even acted improperly -- by refusing to comply with a statute he believed was unconstitutional. The
Court in Myers can be seen to have implicitly vindicated the view that the President may réfuse to
comply with a statute that limits his constitutional powers if he believes it is unconstitutional. As
Attorney General Civiletti stated in a 1980 opinion,

Myers is very nearly decisive of the issue [of Presidential denial of the validity of statutes].
Myers holds that the President's constitutional duty does not require him to execute
unconstitutional statutes; nor does it require him to execute them provisionally, against the
day that they are declared unconstitutional by the courts. He cannot be required by statute
to retain postmasters against his will unless and until a court says that he may lawfully let
them go. If the statute is unconstitutional, it is unconstitutional from the start.

The Attorney General's Duty to Defend and Enforce Constitutionally Objectionable Legislation, 4A
Op. O.L.C. 55, 59 (1980).

7. The fact that a sitting President signed the statute in question does not change this analysis. The
text of the Constitution offers no basis for distinguishing bills based on who signed them; there is no
constitutional analogue to the principles of waiver and estoppel. Moreover, every President since
Eisenhower has issued signing statements in which he stated that he would refuse to execute
unconstitutional provisions. See annotations of attached signing statements. As we noted in our
memorandum on Presidential signing statements, the President may properly announce to Congress
and to the public that he will not enforce a provision of an enactment he is signing. If so, then a signing
statement that challenges what the President determines to be an unconstitutional encroachment on his
power, or that announces the President's unwillingness to enforce (or willingness to litigate) such a
provision, can be a valid and reasonable exercise of Presidential authority. Memorandum for Bernard
N. Nussbaum, Counsel to the President, from Walter Dellinger, Assistant Attorney General, Office of
Legal Counsel at 4 (Nov. 3, 1993). (Of course, the President is not obligated to announce his
reservations in a signing statement; he can convey his views in the time, manner, and form of his
choosing.) Finally, the Supreme Court recognized this practice in INS v. Chadha, 462 U.S. 919 (1983):
the Court stated that it is not uncommon for Presidents to approve legislation containing parts which
are objectionable on constitutional grounds and then cited the example of President Franklin
Roosevelt's memorandum to Attorney General Jackson, in which he indicated his intention not to
implement an unconstitutional provision in a statute that he had just signed. Id. at 942 n.13. These
sources suggest that the President's signing of a bill does not affect his authority to decline to enforce
constitutionally objectionable provisions thereof.

In accordance with these propositions, we do not believe that a President is limited to choosing
between vetoing, for example, the Defense Appropriations Act and executing an unconstitutional
provision in it. In our view, the President has the authority to sign legislation containing desirable
elements while refusing to execute a constitutionally defective provision.

We recognize that these issues are difficult ones. When the President's obligation to act in accord
' with the Constitution appears to be in tension with his duty to execute laws enacted by Congress,
questions are raised that go to the heart of our constitutional structure. In these circumstances, a
President should proceed with caution and with respect for the obligation that each of the branches
shares for the maintenance of constitutional government.

Walter Dellinger
Assistant Attorney General

Brief Description of Attached Materials

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012388
