another lockdown facility and if he betrayed my trust, again, he would
never see me again. I would disappear for good this time and for all he
would know I could be dead in no time on the streets. He looked at me
and for the first time in my life he saw the many years I had grown up in
the time I was gone and heard the seriousness in the tone of my voice
when I made my vow to him. He put his head in his hands and told me
the bad news, my Mom didn’t want me to come home and she was
making his life hell for even suggesting bringing me back into their lives.
I for some reason threatened her lifestyle and drove her crazy. I had been
surprised about a lot of things lately but not that one. The last time | saw
my Mom she ever so carefully lied to me and told me she was bringing
me to an eye-doctor for an infection. Instead we walked into this tall blue
building with people in uniforms holding clipboards and a few muscly
guards, she ushered me inside and hurried up to close the large auto lock
doors behind her leaving me there alone and imprisoned, which is what
led me to recently living on the streets. My life was hell as long as she
was in control of it, so when she didn’t want me back at home I was fine
with that too, but there had to be somewhere else | could go. My dad said
he had no choice but to put me back into the facility, but he made a
sincere promise that he would not take any longer than a week to try to
find a place for me to stay and to go to school. A week I could deal with,
but 1 was still unsure if I could trust my father and hold him to his word,
but yet again, I had no choice. Being my legal guardian he could send me
anywhere he wanted and there would be nothing I could do, except for
keep running. I gave in, and before he left the officers to take me back to
the last facility I had run from, I gave him one last hug and reminded him
“one-week and I’m gone”. Nodding his head and squeezing his arms
tighter around me, I could only hope he meant it, but he didn’t look too
optimistic.

In the police car on the way back to the facility they had to handcuff me
in case I ran again, but I had no intentions to anyways. I was going to
give my dad the week before I began to search for the right opportunity to
jolt again. I was like a “ghost come back,” said so many of my girlfriends
from the past and there was now a lot of new faces there too. At night
when we were all in bed and supposed to be sleeping, I would be
daydreaming of better days and imagine myself somewhere in a
comfortable bed, actually enjoying my life for a change. A week went by
in this facility spending most of my days locked up in what they called
“The White Room”, a bare room with concrete flooring, no toilet or even
a chair to sit on. The only comfort | had was the blue sweater that was
provided as part of the uniform, and my hair scrunchie filled with my
stowed away cash that no one had found during my unpleasant strip-
searches. I would spend hours in the white room for objecting to their

19

conformity and unwilling to participate in their drilling regime. I didn’t
feel like I owed any.explanation to these people even when they brought
a physiologist in to speak with me, “What was the point when I would be
gone any day now” and as if any of these people even cared in the first
place, I was just another number in the system and they had a job to do.

There was one mega-bitch, female guard, named Evelyn and she used
to either really like you or really hate you and God-forbid you were one
of the unfortunates that she didn’t like, she’d make your entire stay their
an agonizing nightmare. Constantly picking on girls who were not strong
enough to cope with their predicament or past issues, she’d stand them up
and publicly humiliate them, and even when they begged her through
their sobs to let them sit down, she’d only torment them worse. Which
only made the strong girls want to antagonize the fragile one’s with more
malicious intent. Luckily when I had previously been there she didn’t
take much notice of me, but I stayed out of harms way with her, just
being quiet and observant.

Being back here seemed like an eternity while I held my end of the
bargain but unfortunately my Father didn’t. The first chance I saw to run
L took it. | was being sent to go get my blood and urine taken for drug and
disease analysis. My driver would be a volunteer from the community
and it was the perfect getaway for me. | was brought from the white
solitaire room and led into the bright sun, feeling like today would be
favorable in my escape. We got to the doctors office, my whereabouts
told me I had plenty of ways to run and I scouted out the best looking
route. My plan was to barge through the volunteer’s inexperienced grip
and wriggle my way out if needed, then hit the asphalt, running until my
legs couldn’t carry me any further. Playing it out in my mind felt
different to the anticipation that led up to actually doing it. The inner-
strength I had was the only thing going to help me in this circumstance.

We arrived in the parking lot and I hadn’t said a word to him the entire
drive, the small framed Spanish man tried to make pleasant conversation
but I couldn’t see him as anything but a challenge, so I kept quiet instead,
ignoring his humorous attempts to befriend me. The car pulled to a stop
and he came around the side to unlock my door, this was it, “here we go”
T told myself, and pushed past the volunteer. His arms grabbed out at me
but only caught me by my shirt, he didn’t even put up much ofa struggle,
like some of the other trained one’s I had gotten before, they would put
me into body locks of all sorts but he just tore at the collar of my shirt
letting me break free. 1 had done this many times before so I knew I
wasn’t gone yet, L had to first get out of these clothes. The cops would be
looking for someone of my description in the area with a blue shirt and
khaki pants, so my first stop was a busy shopping complex. | took the
money from my scrunchie and bought myself a pair of jeans, a shirt, and

20

| Copyright Protected Material O Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFREOO4 152 CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRL004 133

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021154
