Business Expansion Portfolio and Prospectus
Twin City Care of The Virgin Islands
7

Mobile Phlebotomy

Our islands are moving toward new types of patient interactions and each year comes an influx of
organizations seeking in-home or direct patient (participants / customers) visits. TCMIH will
provide mobile phlebotomy and mobile examiner staffing services for island wide specimen
collections and one-on-one health testing.

Our Mobile Phlebotomy is a full-service staffing agency that works with organizations such as
specialty labs, doctors, health diagnostic and research companies to provide mobile phlebotomists
and mobile examiners directly to your patients around the island. We understand that many
organizations depend on reliable and experienced phlebotomists available specifically for short
term health screening assignments and specimen collections. Our technicians will collect blood,
urine, fecal, hair, nail samples and do Electrocardiograms.

Professional and reliable team members take pride in the quality of their work. They pride
themselves in their adherence to requirements for timely collection, delivery and handling of the
specimens. We will be the leader in the home blood draw services in the Virgin Islands. We deliver
the specimens to the labs so you don’t have to. All of our staff will be Certified Mobile Phlebotomy
Technicians and carry a mobile centrifuge in their vehicles. This helps assure we get quality
specimens.

Medical Oversight (Medical Director)

The American College of Emergency Physicians (ACEP) believes that all aspects of the
organization and provision of basic (including first responder) and advanced life support
emergency and non-emergency medical service, require the active involvement and participation
of physicians. The primary role of the medical director is to ensure quality patient care.
Responsibilities include involvement with the ongoing design, operation, evaluation and revision
of the system from initial patient access to definitive patient care.

The medical director has authority over patient care, authority to limit immediately the patient care
activities of those who deviate from established standards or do not meet training standards, and
the responsibility and authority to develop and implement medical policies and procedures. The
medical director's qualifications, responsibilities, and authority must be delineated in writing
within each system. Ideally, the medical director will be a board-certified emergency physician.

In order to meet requirements and CAAS compliance, TCMIH has already entered into contractual
agreement with Dr. Christopher C. Hill DO, ACEP, AAEP, ACOEP, AOA, AMA.

Dr. Hill serves as the Medical Director for EMETS, a paramedic/EMT education/training company
in Brevard County and for EMETSEEI Institute Inc in Rockledge, Florida. He 1s concurrently
working at Rockledge Regional Medical Center Emergency Department and enjoys teaching in
the clinical setting.

Dr. Hill is currently a member of the American Academy of Emergency Physicians, American
College of Osteopathic Emergency Physicians, and American Osteopathic Association.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029482
