13, Section 205

DOJ opposes the addition of the new subsection 240.A(b)(6)(A) of the Immigration and
Nationality 21 Act (8 U.S.C. 1229b(b)) unless the word “Federal” is added before “law
enforcement official.” The same proposed subsection currently states that the Secrctary of the
Department of Homeland Security “shall grant parole” to the relatives of trafficking victims.
DOJ recommends changing this language to read “may grant parole” so the Secretary has the
latitude to make an appropriate decision, There may be reasons pertaining to the circumstances
of the relatives of the trafficking victim for which the Secretary should have discretion to deny
parole, Further, DOJ finds it necessary to strike any reference to “as a result of the alien’s
cooperation with law enforcement” for the reasons noted above.

In subsection, (6)(B)(i)(1, DOJ opposes a statutory requirement that parole be extended
during pending civil actions. As indicated above, this action would create a potential for abuse
because of the lengthy and plaintiff/victim-controlled delays in conducting civil Litigation.

14. = Section 211

The Department opposes the change of the “and” in subsection (1)(A) to an “or.” Both
the Attorney General and the Secretary of DHS need to be involved in the certification process.
The current certification process is well-established and needs no statutory revisions. DOJ also
opposes the change in subsection (1)(B), which would remove the Attorney General's authority
in stating whether a person’s presence is necessary in cnsuring an effective prosecution. As the
agency that prosecutes cases of human trafficking, DOJ’s involvement is vitally important. The |
Department has the same concern with the proposed change in subsection (2).

15. Section 213

We strongly oppose the language in this section that inappropriately removes law
enforcement from any initial determination of victim status or benefits eligibility. DOJ and DHS
play a critical role in protecting the safety of victims and service providers. Any failure to
involve Federal law enforcement immediately upon suspicion that a crime has been committed

_ could threaten the safety of the victim, impeded efforts to promptly rescue victims still in
jeopardy, and possibly man that the offenders avoid apprehension. DOJ recognizes the
important of including HHS at the initial stages for the purpose of facilitating prompt delivery of
the full range of available benefits and services to trafficking victims. DOJ will continue to work
with DHS and HHS to ensure that interagency procedures afford victims of trafficking prompt
protection and access to these services. :

The Department further objects to the provision set forth in paragraph (G), which would
require both Federal and state law enforcement officials to inform the Department of Health and ,
Human Services (HHS) of the existence of a potential victim, but does not require HHS, other

Government officials, or non-governmental service providers to inform Federal or state law

enforcement of such a victim. To the extent that such a notification procedure must exist, it must

also include notification to the Attorney General and the Secretary of DHS, who bear

responsibility for prosecuting and investigating instances of human trafficking.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012377
