release valve for the over-inflated ambitions, nationalism, and hatreds that steamed
up between nations.

On our modern networked systems, however, power is different. On fast connected
webs of nearly any sort, tiny forces applied can have immense impacts that leap
from one domain to another. One erroneous commodity trade can snap-scramble a
marketplace - and then tip a bucket of chaos into nations, companies and trading
firms, One hacker, sneaking into the back-door of a computer network, can - to us a
term of art - “brick” a nation’s expensive security systems into devices as lively as a
doorstop: STUXNET spinning Iran’s centrifuges into planned madness, for
instance.’° Here’s the essential, dangerous insight about safety in a connected world:
It once required a big industrial force to defeat another big industrial force. Such
grinding victories required time. They could be prepared for. They could be avoided,
even. No more. Even the most formidable physical structures of our world -
militaries, markets, governments - can be rendered swiftly immobile by virtual
attacks on their connected nerve systems.’! These strikes - or, in some cases, these
accidents — baffle and then paralyze at network speed, by which I mean less time
than it took you to read this sentence. When the American national security strategy
speaks of a “long struggle” against terrorism or a rising China, it doesn’t
acknowledge how fast some of the turns ahead may be.” Yes, a decades-long battle
for control of essential networks and platforms and protocols lingers ahead. But I
fear some of the changes ahead will whiplash us with their speed. Generals in World
War One lamented that the whole war might have been prevented if diplomatic
communication had been conducted at the stately speed of the horse-carried
message. It was the damn velocity of the telegraph that baffled the judgment of
statesmen, they claimed. Figures whose every instinct runs ata pace far slower than
what the age demands were then - and are now - a menace.

The great 20 Century theorist of political realism, Hans Morgenthau, once referred
to nation states as “blind and potent monsters.”’? He felt a sort of nervous evil as he
studied the moves countries made on the stage of world history. Some of this unease
was surely a result of his own life, marked by a lucky escape from Germany in 1937,
as Hitler was finally perfecting a national machine of lurid and murderous potency. I
suspect Morgenthau would have been terrified now by the always-on, all-seeing
connected mesh that encloses us. Connected forces move at times like a potent and
capricious monster too, smashing businesses or national economies or ecosystems

70 One hacker: David Raymond, Tom Cross, Gregory Conti, Robert Fanelli, “A
Control Measure Framework to Limit Collateral Damage and Propagation of Cyber
Weapons”, Proceedings 5th International Conference on Cyber Conflict (NATO CCD
COE Publications, Tallinn 2013).

71 Even the most formidable: Daniel Geer, “Heartbleed as Metaphor”, Lawfare Blog
April 21, 2014

72 When the American: See 2014 US National Security Strategy

73 The great 20‘ Century theorist: Hans Morgenthau, “The State of Political
Science,” Politics in the Twentieth Century Vol. 1, (Chicago:University of Chicago
Press, YEAR HERE)

53

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018285
