understatement. Early in the campaign, in a Producers-worthy scene, Sam Nunberg was
sent to explain the Constitution to the candidate: “I got as far as the Fourth Amendment
before his finger is pulling down on his lip and his eyes are rolling back in his head.”

Almost everybody on the Trump team came with the kind of messy conflicts bound to
bite a president or his staff. Mike Flynn, Trump’s future National Security Advisor, who
became Trump’s opening act at campaign rallies and whom Trump loved to hear complain
about the CIA and the haplessness of American spies, had been told by his friends that it
had not been a good idea to take $45,000 from the Russians for a speech. “Well, it would
only be a problem if we won,” he assured them, knowing that it would therefore not be a
problem.

Paul Manafort, the international lobbyist and political operative who Trump retained to
run his campaign after Lewandowski was fired—and who agreed not to take a fee, amping
up questions of quid pro quo—had spent thirty years representing dictators and corrupt
despots, amassing millions of dollars in a money trail that had long caught the eye of U.S.
investigators. What’s more, when he joined the campaign, he was being pursued, his every
financial step documented, by the billionaire Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska, who
claimed he stole $17 million from him in a crooked real estate scam.

For quite obvious reasons, no president before Trump and few politicians ever have
come out of the real estate business: a lightly regulated market, based on substantial debt
with exposure to frequent market fluctuations, it often depends on government favor, and
is a preferred exchange currency for problem cash—money laundering. Trump’s son-in-
law Jared Kushner, Jared’s father Charlie, Trump’s sons Don Jr. and Eric, and his daughter
Ivanka, as well as Trump himself, all supported their business enterprises to a greater or
lesser extent working in the dubious limbo of international free cash flow and gray money.
Charlie Kushner, to whose real estate business interests Trump’s son-in-law and most
important aide was wholly tied, had already spent time in a federal prison for tax evasion,
witness tampering, and making illegal campaign donations.

Modern politicians and their staffs perform their most consequential piece of
opposition research on themselves. If the Trump team had vetted their candidate, they
would have reasonably concluded that heightened ethical scrutiny could easily put them in
jeopardy. But Trump pointedly performed no such effort. Roger Stone, Trump’s longtime
political adviser, explained to Steve Bannon that Trump’s psychic makeup made it
impossible for him to take such a close look at himself. Nor could he tolerate knowing that
somebody else would then know a lot about him—and therefore have something over him.
And anyway, why take such a close and potentially threatening look, because what were
the chances of winning?

Not only did Trump disregard the potential conflicts of his business deals and real
estate holdings, he audaciously refused to release his tax returns. Why should he if he
wasn’t going to win?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019896
