“Early on, it became clear that things had changed, from Krischer saying, ‘we’ll
put this guy away for life,’ to ‘these are all the reasons why we aren’t going to
prosecute this,’ ”’ Reiter said.

Krischer, who is now retired and in private practice, did not respond to multiple
requests from the Herald for comment. Belohlavek also did not respond to an
email sent to her office.

“It became apparent to me that some of our evidence was being leaked to
Epstein’s lawyers, who began to question everything that we had in our probable
cause affidavit,’ Reiter said.

The day of the search on Oct. 20, 2005, they found that most of Epstein’s
computer hard drives, surveillance cameras and videos had been removed from
the house, leaving loose, dangling wires, according to the police report.

But the girls’ description of the house squared with what detectives found, right
down to the hot pink couch and the dresser drawer of sex toys in Epstein’s
bathroom.

Reiter said his own trash was disappearing from his house, as his life was put
under Epstein’s microscope. Private investigators hired by Epstein’s lawyers even
tracked down Reiter’s grade school teachers, the former chief said. Questions
were raised about donations that Epstein had made to the police department,
even though Reiter had returned one of the donations shortly after the
investigation began.

Recarey, meanwhile, said he began to take different routes to and from work, and
even switched vehicles because he knew he was being tailed.

“At some point it became like a cat-and-mouse game. I would stop at a red light
and go. I knew they were there, and they knew I knew they were there. I was
concerned about my kids because I didn’t know if it was someone that they hired
just out of prison that would hurt me or my family,” Recarey said.

Despite relentless political pressure, Reiter and Recarey soldiered on, and their
determination yielded evidence that supported most of the girls’ allegations, the
former cops said. They had phone records that showed Epstein and his assistant,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016441
