Knowledge 131

Easy!

No, unfortunately. The problem is subtler than it first appears. First
it will take a VEEEEERRRY long time. If I counted up from one, I would
print out War and Peace eventually but it would take 120 billion, billion,
billion, billion, billion... (I would need the entire length of this book
to write out all the billions) years! For the physicists amongst you, I
would need 10°” years, assuming I could use every atom in the known
universe counting in parallel at the plank interval. “The plank interval is
the shortest time that can exist in the Universe as a discrete ‘tick.

Even going at this speed using with every atom in the known
Universe would take 10°° longer than the age of the Universe. This is
stupendously long. Remember scientific notation means I have a 1 with
5000 zeroes after it. It is a deceptive notation as something as innocuous
as 10'”° is equal to the number of atoms in the known universe. 10° is
an absolutely enormous number. If you hear something is going to ‘take
until the end of time; we're talking a lot longer than that!

You may have spotted that in the process of counting up to the War
and Peace number we also count through EVERY book ever written
shorter than 500,000 words in all the world’s languages. Interestingly we
counted through the Japanese and Chinese translations of War and Peace
quite a bit before we reached the English and finally French translations.
During the process, we also stepped through countless other wonderful
works: proofs of amazing theorems, the complete works of William
Shakespeare, and every composition ever written. Sadly, we never knew
it. The problem is my program never stopped and told me it had found
any of these wonderful things. I would have to sit staring at the screen to
spot them. If I was off doing something else — making a cup of tea, taking
the kids to school - I would miss all these wonders; the program never
tells me if it has succeeded, but quietly prints out War and Peace and
carries on. This is really annoying. It’s not a useful machine.

What I need is a machine that rings a bell when it finds something
interesting so I can break away from what I am doing and take a look.
Reading every book it writes in every language and all the nonsense
in between would take a ginormous amount of my time. (By-the-way,
contrary to statements by school teachers that ginormous is not a word

— it is!) I want a computer to come up with War and Peace without me
having to do all the work.

It’s no help if the machine writes everything down and lets me take
a look in my own good time. That only puts off the time when I have to
begin reading all the gibberish it produced. Another practical problem
is the massive storage required. Just imagine the immense piles of printer

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015821
