Edwards adv. Epstein
Telephone interview with Virginia Roberts
Page 15 of 23

what was happening in the house. It would start off with massaging or we would start off
with foreplay, sometimes it would lead to, you know, orgies.

JS: Were there occasions when you were in Jeffrey’s company, whether on the ground or in
the air, where there were other girls present whom you knew to be under age 18?

V: Yes. There was a constant influx of girls coming in and going out. And we were all very
young. On occasion, there was some older girls, and I don’t mean older as in like in their
30s or anything, I mean like 28, 29, something like that, just very rarely. The majority of
the girls that Jeffrey actually met or had on his plane or in his house were under age.

JS: Do you know how it is that Jeffrey established with any of these underage girls?

V: Yes, Ido. He would send me personally or with other girls to clubs or shops, to _pick up
anywhere, J mean we were constantly on the look for other girls that might satisfy
Jeffrey.

JS: | What instructions were you given about what to look for?

V: Young, pretty, you know, a fun personality. They couldn’t be black. If they were any
other descent other than white, they had to be exotically beautiful. That was just about it.

JS: | Who gave you those criteria?

V: They both gave us the instructions, and it wasn’t just me, Jeffrey asked most girls to bring
a friend and make extra money. They would use us young girls So that way it probably
looked a lot more safer to a girl that we were procuring to younger girls that were already
doing it. That was the way that Jeffrey had it.

JS: Were you given any instruction at all on how to approach these girls?

V: Yes. Jeffrey and Ghislaine both taught me to, depending on the circumstances,
depending on the girl, you could offer them a job as a massage therapist or you could tell
them you have a really rich friend with, you know, great contacts in the acting world or
modeling world and he loves pretty girls, you should come back and meet him, make
some money, you know, we had a whole bunch of ways to be able to procure girls.

JS: Can you give me any idea as to the total number of underage girls that you know engaged
in sexual conduct with Jeffrey during the period of time you had your relationship with
him?

V: I would have no way of estimating that whatsoever. I mean, there could be a hundred,

there could be more, honestly I’m not too sure how many girls, really. I wish I did know.
I mean like I said there were so many over the course of 4 years with Jeffrey.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015570
