that acute loneliness, just like acute
physical pain, serves an important
biological function for our species.
Being aware of how loneliness fits into
our remarkable achievements as a social
species and what loneliness does to our
social cognition and behavior can help
us better understand the actions of others
toward us. Third, to the extent that
desperation for social connections leads
chronically lonely individuals to
misguidedly vest their interest in those
who are unlikely to meet their
relationship needs, they may need to
learn how to be selective and choose
friends and groups with whom
reciprocally rewarding relationships can
be expected. This decision is critical to
success. Research indicates that the
people with whom we are most likely to
form positive, lasting relationships are
those who have similar attitudes, beliefs,
values, interests, and activities to our
own. Therefore, people should not seek
friendships based on physical
appearance, status, popularity, or
convenience, but rather on attitudes,
beliefs, values, and behaviors. Finally,
because chronically lonely people expect
to be disappointed with themselves and
others in their relationships, they may
benefit from training and practice in
taking a more optimistic perspective, in
expecting the best from themselves and
from others. We play a much more
important role in shaping our social
environment than we often realize.

Although no intervention to date
has incorporated all of these elements, at
least one randomized trial has
demonstrated that an intervention based
upon volunteerism (Experience Corps)
can increase social activity in older
adults (19). In this trial, older adults are
paired with grade-school children and
dedicate at least fifteen hours per week

135

Page

throughout the school year to assist the
teachers in supporting and encouraging
children in reading, writing, and
mathematics. This strategy engages at
least two of the principles that emerged
out of Cacioppo and Patrick’s theoretical
framework (5)—the provision of a
“safe” venue for making social
connections (i.e., the classroom of non-
threatening children), and the shifting of
older adults’ attention away from their
own concers and toward the needs of
someone else. In addition, this strategy
capitalizes on Erikson’s notion of
generativity (1.e., helping future
generations) (20). Interventions of this
form deserve further assessment (21).

Conclusion

We began this chapter by noting
that loneliness is not uncommon and,
although unpleasant, may prompt
individuals to attend to and repair their
social connections. Loneliness affects
cognition as well as well-being,
however, and when loneliness persists it
is a risk factor for myriad health
problems. Previous reviewers have
suggested that loneliness can be reduced
through interventions that emphasize
social skills development and group-
based activities. By quantitatively
analyzing twenty-two well-designed
studies, we found no evidence that these
strategies were any more effective in
reducing loneliness than increasing
social opportunities or social support, or
modifying maladaptive social
cognitions, whether in a group or
individual context. A larger number of
intervention studies may be needed to
determine the relative efficacy of these
intervention strategies. In the interim, it
is clear from this review that global
impressions and intuitions will not
suffice when trying to reduce loneliness.
Future interventions should

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021381
