I thought: Are you sure? and You definitely looked affected by it, but it's both unethical
and unwise to question someone else's experience. So I just said, You know I don't want
you to do anything you don't want to do. Have you felt pressured by me?”

No, of course not,” he said.

We talked some more. He ultimately said, Look, are you totally satisfied with the sex
we're having?”

I mean... I said. It's not the most intense sex I've ever had, but it'll keep getting better.
I think we should just be friends,” he said.
_.. Okay, I said. Um. Is there anything else you want to talk about?”

Mr. Ambition seemed agitated. He seemed barely able to hold still. I've never dated
anyone that I respected like I respect you,” he said. Your charisma, your intelligence,
your morality. But... I don't know. I don't feel like we're very authentic with each other. I
don't feel like there's much warmth between us.”

Maybe you're right, | thought. But either way, it's too late now. Okay, I said. I thought
for a moment. I'm sorry,” I added. I really wanted this to work out. For a moment,
tears startled my eyes, but I blinked them back.

Are you all right?” he asked. He leaned forward. Is there anything I can do for you?”

I looked at him and tried to think. I knew I was going to be very upset in maybe fifteen
minutes. He seemed hurt, and I wanted to say something that would comfort him. I
wondered if he wanted me to cry, and beg, and create drama; I wouldn't do that... but
maybe it would help if I asked for something simple.

But I couldn't come up with anything, and I wanted to leave. So after a pause, I said,
You can let me go home and cry.

I said it as gently as I could. But Mr. Ambition seemed terribly distressed. Ohhh, he
said, and screwed up his face. He leapt to his feet. I'm sorry, he said.

It's okay, I said. Is there anything else?”

Sometimes I think men just aren't capable of the kind of commitment women are, Mr.
Ambition said. He sounded defensive, even though I hadn't made any accusations. Then
again, you're not like most women.... You're kind of a hardass. You probably have this
problem with a lot of the men you date, where you come across as kind of a hardass....
And to be honest, I don't think men really want to date women as smart as they are.

Jesus, I thought, you already broke up with me; can't you just let me go? Why do you
have to rip into me like this? | wondered how much of what he was saying was about me,
and how much was him trying to make sense of his own feelings. But even though I felt
sure that he was confused, his words sent an icy spike straight through me. J don't think
men really want to date women as smart as they are....

I've worked really hard to become less argumentative, I said. You should have seen
me when I was a teenager.... I don't know if I can tone myself down any more than I

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018627
