STEPHEN WOLFRAM

Stephen Wolfram has been responsible for three
revolutionary developments: the Mathematica
computation system, A New Kind of Science, and the
Wolfram|Alpha computational knowledge engine.

Wolfram was educated at Eton, Oxford and
Caltech, receiving his Ph.D. in theoretical physics at the
age of 20. Wolfram’s work on basic science led him toa
series of fundamental discoveries about the computational
universe of possible programs. Summarized in his best-
selling 2002 book A New Kind of Science, these discoveries
have not only launched major new directions in basic
research, but have also led to breakthroughs in scientific
modeling in physical, biological and social domains—as well
as defining a broad new basis for technology discovery.

Launched in 1988, Mathematica has revolutionized
the way technical computation is done, and has been
responsible for countless advances over the past two decades.
Starting from a set of fundamental principles devised by
Wolfram, Mathematica has continually grown, integrating
more and more algorithmic domains, and spawning such
technologies as the Computable Document Format (CDF).

Building on Mathematica and A New Kind of
Science, Wolfram in 2009 launched Wolfram|Alpha—an
ambitious, long-term project to make as much of the world’s
knowledge as possible computable, and accessible to
everyone. Used every day on the web and through apps by
millions of people around the world, Wolfram|Alpha defines
a fundamentally new kind of computing platform that is
turning science-fiction computer intelligence into reality.

In addition to his scientific and technical
achievements, Wolfram has been the CEO of Wolfram
Research since its founding in 1987. Under Wolfram’s
leadership, Wolfram Research has become one of the world’s
most respected software companies, as well as a powerhouse
of technical and intellectual innovation, and a major
contributor to education and research around the world.

i IH
ANNI)
(NAN ii) WU Ih

WILL WRIGHT

William Ralph “Will” Wright (born January 20, 1960, in
Atlanta, Georgia) is an American video game designer and
co-founder of the game development company Maxis, now
part of Electronic Arts. In April 2009, he left Electronic
Arts to run “Stupid Fun Club”, an entertainment think
tank in which Wright and EA are principal shareholders.

The first computer game Wright designed was
Raid on Bungeling Bay in 1984, but it was SimCity that
brought him to prominence. The game was released by
Maxis, a company Wright formed with Jeff Braun, and he
built upon the game’s theme of computer simulation with
numerous other titles including SimEarth and SimAnt.

Wright’s greatest success to date came as the original
designer for The Sims games series. The game spawned
multiple sequels and expansions and Wright earned many
awards for his work. His latest work, Spore, was released
in September 2008 and features gameplay based upon the
model of evolution and scientific advancement. The game
sold 406,000 copies within three weeks of its release.

He was born as William Ralph Wright
on January 20, 1960, in Atlanta. He is of French,

English, Italian, and Native American descent.

After graduating at 16 from Episcopal High School,
he enrolled in Louisiana State University, transferring two
years later to Louisiana Tech. Beginning with a start at an
architecture degree, followed by mechanical engineering,
he fell into computers and robotics. He excelled in subjects
he was interested in—architecture, economics, mechanical
engineering, and military history—but was held back by his
impractical goals such as language arts. His earlier dream
of space colonization remained, and was joined by a love
for robotics. After another two years at Louisiana Tech, in
the fall of 1980, Wright moved on to The New School in
Manhattan. He lived in an apartment over Balducci’s, in
Greenwich Village, and spent his spare time searching for
spare parts in local electronics surplus stores. After one year
at the New School, Wright returned to Baton Rouge without
his degree, concluding five years of collegiate study.

During a summer break from college, he
met his first wife Joell Jones, an artist currently living
in California, on vacation to her hometown of Baton
Rouge. In an interview published in February 2003, Will
claims that games were absorbing so much of his time,
he decided that perhaps making games was the way to
go. Wright’s first game was the helicopter action game
Raid on Bungeling Bay (1984) for the Commodore 64.

Wright found that he had more fun creating levels
with his level editor for Raid on Bungeling Bay than he had
while actually playing the game. He created a new game
that would later evolve into SimCity, but he had trouble
finding a publisher. The structuralist dynamics of the game
were in part inspired by the work of two architectural and
urban theorists, Christopher Alexander and Jay Forrester.

“T’m interested in the process and strategies
for design. The architect Christopher Alexander, in
his book A Pattern Language formalized a lot of spatial
relationships into a grammar for design. I’d really like to
work toward a grammar for complex systems and present
someone with tools for designing complex things.”

Wright, in an interview with The Times,
expressed belief that computers extend the imagination,
and posits the emergence of the “metabrain”, stating:

“Any human institutional system that draws
on the intelligence of all its members is a metabrain. Up
to now, we have had high friction between the neurons
of the metabrain; technology is lowering that friction
tremendously. Computers are allowing us to aggregate our
intelligence in ways that were never possible before. If you
look at Spore, people are making this stuff, and computers
collect it, then decide who to send it to. The computer is
the broker. What they are really exploring is the collective
creativity of millions of people. They are aggregating

human intelligence into a system that is more powerful
than we thought artificial intelligence was going to be.”

In 1986, he met Jeff Braun, an investor interested
in entering the computer game industry, at what Wright
calls “the world’s most important pizza party.” Together
they formed Maxis the next year in Orinda, California.
SimCity (1989) was a hit and has been credited as one of
the most influential computer games ever made. Wright
himself has been widely featured in several computer
magazines—particularly PC Gamer, which has listed
Wright in its annual ‘Game Gods’ feature, alongside such
notables as Roberta Williams and Peter Molyneux.

Following the success of SimCity, Wright
designed SimEarth (1990) and SimAnt (1991). He co-
designed SimCity 2000 (1993) with Fred Haslam and
in the meantime Maxis produced other “Sim” games.
Wright’s next game was SimCopter (1996). Although
none of these games were as successful as SimCity, they
further cemented Wright’s reputation as a designer of
“software toys” —games that cannot be won or lost. In 1992,
Wright and his family moved to Orinda, California.

Wright has a great interest in complex adaptive
systems and most of his games have been based around
them or books that describe them (SimAnt: E.O. Wilson’s
The Ants, SimEarth: James Lovelock’s Gaia Theory, SimCity:
Jay Forrester’s Urban Dynamics and World Dynamics, Spore:
Drake’s Equation and The Powers of Ten) Wright’s role in the
development of the concepts from simulations to games is
to empower the players by creating what he dubs “possibility
spaces”, or simple rules and game elements that add up toa
very complex design. All Maxis, and later games that Wright
had a hand in designing, adhere to these design principles.

Maxis went public in 1995 with revenue of US$38
million. The stock reached $50 a share and then dropped
as Maxis posted a loss. Electronic Arts bought Maxis in
June 1997. Wright had been thinking about making a virtual
doll house ever since the early 1990s, similar to SimCity
but focused on individual people. Originally conceived
of as an architectural design game called Home Tactics,
Wright’s idea changed when someone suggested the player
should be rated on the quality of life experience by the
homeowners. It was a difficult idea to sell to E.A., because
already 40% of Maxis’s employees had been laid off.

When Wright took his idea to the Maxis board of
directors, Jeff Braun says, “The board looked at The Sims
and said, “What is this? He wants to do an interactive doll

pao

house? The guy is out of his mind.’ ” Doll houses were for girls,
and girls didn’t play video games. Maxis gave little support
or financing for the game. Electronic Arts, which bought
Maxis in 1997, was more enthusiastic. Wright’s games are so
different from E.A.’s other releases that it was hard to imagine
the two being united in the same enterprise. But the success
of SimCity had already established Sim as a strong brand,
and E.A., which by then, fifteen years after its founding, was
becoming a Procter & Gamble-style brand-management
company, foresaw the possibility of building a Sim franchise.

E.A. published The Sims in February 2000
and it became Wright’s biggest success yet. It eventually
surpassed Myst as the best-selling computer game of all
time and spawned numerous expansion packs and other
games. He designed a massively multiplayer version
of the game called The Sims Online, which was not as
popular as the original. By November 2006, The Sims
franchise had earned E.A. more than a billion dollars.

In a presentation at the Game Developers Conference
on March 11, 2005, he announced his latest game Spore.
He used the current work on this game to demonstrate
methods that can be used to reduce the amount of content
that needs to be created by the game developers. Wright
hopes to inspire others to take risks in game creation.

As for his theories on interactive
design, Wright says the following:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017565
