A Word of Warning About Comparing

Corporate & Government Accounting...

e Government accounting standards do not report the present value of future
entitlement payments (such as Social Security or Medicare) as liabilities.
Instead, entitlement payments are recognized only when they are paid.

Our analysis takes a different view: governments create liabilities when they
enact entitlements and do not provide for revenues adequate to fund them.

e We measure the entitlement liability as the present value of estimated
entitlement payments in excess of expected revenues for citizens of working age
based on Social Security and Medicare Trust Funds’ actuarial analysis.

e Government accounting standards also do not recognize the value of internally-
generated intangible assets (such as the sovereign power to tax). We do not
recognize those assets either, as we have no basis to measure them. But the
US government has substantial intangible assets that should provide future
economic benefits.

Note: For more discussion on alternatives to corporate and official government accounting methods, see Laurence J. Kotlikoff, Alan J. Auerbach, and Jagadeesh
okhale, “Generational Accounting: A Meaningful Way to Assess Generational Policy,” published on 12/94 in The Journal of Economic Perspectives.

KP Source: Greg Jonas, Morgan Stanley Research.
i USA Inc. | High Level Thoughts 31

...and About Government Budgeting

e Federal government budgeting follows arcane practices that are very different
from corporate budgeting — and can neglect solutions to structural problems in
favor of short-term expediency.

e Federal government does not distinguish capital budget (for long-term
investment) from operating budget (for day-to-day operations). As a result, when
funding is limited, government may choose to reduce investments for the future
to preserve resources for day-to-day operations.

e Budget “scoring” rules give Congress incentives to hide the true costs...and help
Congressional committees defend their turf.”

Note: *For more detail, refer to slide 116 on congressional budget scoring rules related to recent Healthcare reform.
a USA Inc. | High Level Thoughts 32

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020857
