Vocabulary and Catechism

The words microeconomics and macroeconomics, by the way, didn’t exist until
Ragnar Frisch coined them in the 1920s. We use terms retrospectively to describe
old arguments in language familiar now. That segues into the next steps in the
foundations. What should be the basic vocabulary and catechism, meaning basic

logic, in terms understood today?

Consideration of purpose always comes first. The purpose of economics is
prediction. We happen to know that one of the most powerful predictors of
economic behavior is maximization of risk-adjusted return. This was Robert
Turgot’s insight of 1766, although he left the risk variable unsaid. (His real first
name was somehow Anne, so we'll go with the second). He wrote that return
equilibrates across markets as investors leave low-return businesses to crowd into
higher-return ones. The shift bids up capital denominators in the higher-return
businesses, and conversely, until return converges. It was David Ricardo, in 1817
who added that the convergence is more exactly for businesses judged equal in risk.
The evidence is everywhere we look. I call this the maximand rule: all behavior
maximizes perceived risk-adjusted rate of return. I'll show its proof below. That
means all behavior in all markets, and markets are where any choice among
alternatives is made. Return means ratio of (net) output to capital generating it.

Then the vocabulary wanted might as well include capital and output.

But what is capital? Economics is choices, and the measure is price or value. Price
can’t be measured exactly outside literal markets, which is why economists follow
those markets, but is measured in principle by what we give up in exchange. The
price of any capital, even human capital, is given by the present value rule as time-
discounted cash flow. Then cash flow and its positive and negative components
belong to the basic vocabulary, while the present value and maximand rules both
belong in the catechism. Output is total return, so the total return truism belongs in

the catechism too.

Chapter 3: Foundations 1/11/16 8

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010979
