In October, the police interviewed Ms. Robson, then 19, who told them Mr. Epstein had
routinely paid her to bring teenage girls to his home. The police then interviewed a total
of 5 alleged victims and 17 witnesses, many of whom told similar stories about what they
had observed or participated in at Mr. Epstein’s home. According to the report, at least
one said Mr. Epstein had engaged in intercourse with her.

Mr. Lefcourt, his lawyer, said one girl who told the police of having had sex with Mr.
Epstein as a minor had lied about both the sex and her age and had not shown up for
grand jury questioning. He also said Mr. Epstein had passed a lie-detector test clearing
him of any sexual involvement with under-age girls.

A spokeswoman for the Palm Beach police said that early this year, the police went to
Mr. Krischer, the state attorney, intending to apply for warrants to arrest Mr. Epstein.
Instead, she said, they were told that Mr. Krischer would convene a grand jury to
examine the evidence and decide what charges, if any, to bring.

Around that time, the police report said, Mr. Dershowitz met with prosecutors to share
information about the accusers, including statements they had posted on MySpace.com,
the social networking site, concerning use of drugs and alcohol. According to the report,
Mr. Krischer’s office then decided to delay the grand jury session for several months.

The Palm Beach police grew frustrated, the report said, and on May 1 the department
asked prosecutors to approve warrants to arrest Mr. Epstein.

Chief Reiter also wrote Mr. Krischer questioning “the unusual course that your office’s
handling of this matter has taken” and suggesting that Mr. Krischer disqualify himself.
Chief Reiter refused several requests to be interviewed, and his spokeswoman would not
say explicitly why he had urged the prosecutor to step aside.

Mike Edmondson, a spokesman for Mr. Krischer, said the state attorney’s office
sometimes sent noncapital cases to grand juries when there were questions about witness
credibility. Mr. Krischer does not recommend a particular charge in such cases, Mr.
Edmondson said, but gives the grand jury a list of possible charges.

Bruce J. Winick, a law professor at the University of Miami, said that while prosecutors
in Florida rarely referred noncapital cases to grand juries, they sometimes did so with
sensitive cases to be extra-cautious.

Mr. Lefcourt said the police were wrong to have released the report so soon, especially
without correcting information that later proved wrong. He cited his assertion that one
accuser had lied about her age, adding that she had also been arrested on drug charges

and had been fired by her employer for stealing.

‘What I’m trying to focus on,” Mr. Lefcourt said, “is, What’s motivating the selective
and misleading release of information to the public?”

Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021785
