industry. In addition, compliance programs that do not just
exist on paper but are followed in practice will inevitably
uncover compliance weaknesses and require enhancements.
Consequently, DOJ and SEC evaluate whether companies
regularly review and improve their compliance programs
and not allow them to become stale.

According to one survey, 64% of general counsel whose
companies are subject to the FCPA say there is room for
improvement in their FCPA training and compliance pro-
grams.>* An organization should take the time to review and
test its controls, and it should think critically about its poten-
tial weaknesses and risk areas. For example, some companies
have undertaken employee surveys to measure their compli-
ance culture and strength of internal controls, identify best
practices, and detect new risk areas. Other companies period-
ically test their internal controls with targeted audits to make
certain that controls on paper are working in practice. DOJ
and SEC will give meaningful credit to thoughtful efforts
to create a sustainable compliance program if a problem is
later discovered. Similarly, undertaking proactive evaluations
before a problem strikes can lower the applicable penalty
range under the US. Sentencing Guidelines.” Although the
nature and the frequency of proactive evaluations may vary
depending on the size and complexity ofan organization, the
idea behind such efforts is the same: continuous improve-

ment and sustainability”

Mergers and Acquisitions: Pre-Acquisition Due
Diligence and Post-Acquisition Integration

In the context of the FCPA, mergers and acquisi-
tions present both risks and opportunities. A company
that does not perform adequate FCPA due diligence prior
to a merger or acquisition may face both legal and business
risks.” Perhaps most commonly, inadequate due diligence
can allow a course of bribery to continue—with all the
attendant harms to a business’s profitability and reputation,
as well as potential civil and criminal liability.

In contrast, companies that conduct effective FCPA
due diligence on their acquisition targets are able to evalu-
ate more accurately each target’s value and negotiate for the

costs of the bribery to be borne by the target. In addition,

Guiding Principles
of Enforcement

such actions demonstrate to DOJ and SEC a company’s
commitment to compliance and are taken into account
when evaluating any potential enforcement action. For
example, DOJ and SEC declined to take enforcement
action against an acquiring issuer when the issuer, among
other things, uncovered the corruption at the company
being acquired as part of due diligence, ensured that the
corruption was voluntarily disclosed to the government,
cooperated with the investigation, and incorporated the
acquired company into its compliance program and inter-
nal controls. On the other hand, SEC took action against
the acquired company, and DOJ took action against a sub-
sidiary of the acquired company.**® When pre-acquisition
due diligence is not possible, DOJ has described proce-
dures, contained in Opinion Procedure Release No. 08-02,
pursuant to which companies can nevertheless be rewarded
if they choose to conduct thorough post-acquisition FCPA
due diligence”

FCPA due diligence, however, is normally only a
portion of the compliance process for mergers and acquisi-
tions. DOJ and SEC evaluate whether the acquiring com-
pany promptly incorporated the acquired company into all
of its internal controls, including its compliance program.
Companies should consider training new employees, reeval-
uating third parties under company standards, and, where
appropriate, conducting audits on new business units.

For example, as a result of due diligence conducted
by a California-based issuer before acquiring the majority
interest in a joint venture, the issuer learned of corrupt pay-
ments to obtain business. However, the issuer only imple-
mented its internal controls “halfway” so as not to “choke
the sales engine and cause a distraction for the sales guys.”
As a result, the improper payments continued, and the
issuer was held liable for violating the FCPA’s internal con-

trols and books and records provisions.>*°

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022564

