Sf

Hallmarks of Effective Compliance
Programs

Individual companies may have different compliance
needs depending on their size and the particular risks asso-
ciated with their businesses, among other factors. When it
comes to compliance, there is no one-size-fits-all program.
Thus, the discussion below is meant to provide insight into
the aspects of compliance programs that DOJ and SEC
assess, recognizing that companies may consider a variety
of factors when making their own determination of what
is appropriate for their specific business needs.>’° Indeed,
small- and medium-size enterprises likely will have different
compliance programs from large multi-national corpora-
tions, a fact DOJ and SEC take into account when evaluat-
ing companies’ compliance programs.

Compliance programs that employ a “check-the-box”
approach may be inefficient and, more importantly, ineffec-
tive. Because each compliance program should be tailored
to an organization's specific needs, risks, and challenges,
the information provided below should not be considered
a substitute for a company’s own assessment of the corpo-
rate compliance program most appropriate for that particu-
lar business organization. In the end, if designed carefully,
implemented earnestly, and enforced fairly, a company’s
compliance program—no matter how large or small the
organization—will allow the company generally to prevent
violations, detect those that do occur, and remediate them

promptly and appropriately.

Commitment from Senior Management and a
Clearly Articulated Policy Against Corruption
Within a business organization, compliance begins
with the board of directors and senior executives setting
the proper tone for the rest of the company. Managers and
employees take their cues from these corporate leaders.
Thus, DOJ and SEC consider the commitment of corpo-
rate leaders to a “culture of compliance”?! and look to see
if this high-level commitment is also reinforced and imple-
mented by middle managers and employees at all levels of

a business. A well-designed compliance program that is

not enforced in good faith, such as when corporate man-
agement explicitly or implicitly encourages employees to
engage in misconduct to achieve business objectives, will be
ineffective. DOJ and SEC have often encountered compa-
nies with compliance programs that are strong on paper but
that nevertheless have significant FCPA violations because
management has failed to effectively implement the pro-
gram even in the face of obvious signs of corruption. This
may be the result of aggressive sales staff preventing com-
pliance personnel from doing their jobs effectively and of
senior management, more concerned with securing a valu-
able business opportunity than enforcing a culture of com-
pliance, siding with the sales team. The higher the financial
stakes of the transaction, the greater the temptation for
management to choose profit over compliance.

A strong ethical culture directly supports a strong
compliance program. By adhering to ethical standards,
senior managers will inspire middle managers to reinforce
those standards. Compliant middle managers, in turn, will
encourage employees to strive to attain those standards
throughout the organizational structure?”

In short, compliance with the FCPA and ethical rules
must start at the top. DOJ and SEC thus evaluate whether
senior management has clearly articulated company stan-
dards, communicated them in unambiguous terms, adhered
to them scrupulously, and disseminated them throughout

the organization.

Code of Conduct and Compliance Policies and
Procedures

A company’s code of conduct is often the foundation
upon which an effective compliance program is built. As
DOJ has repeatedly noted in its charging documents, the
most effective codes are clear, concise, and accessible to all
employees and to those conducting business on the com-
pany’s behalf. Indeed, it would be difficult to effectively
implement a compliance program if it was not available in
the local language so that employees in foreign subsidiaries
can access and understand it. When assessing a compliance

program, DOJ and SEC will review whether the company

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022559

