source of new interest and fascination. New thoughts replaced old ideas in a
continuing process of new formulation. All of these things feel like they emerge
spontaneously, making ideas about being born again and personal renewal
concrete. We remember that Timothy Leary and his wife in their privately circulated
pamphlet, Neurologic, described their entheogenic drug-induced escape from the
habitual order as supported by the learned and established “...mental-manipulative
and socio-sexual brain circuits...,” an escape to a fresh new planet of possibilities.
Louis Lewin, the early Twentieth Century German pioneering ethnopharmacologist
described his subjective responses to peyote as a flood of lively, numerous, random
fantastic creations of perception and thought, all demanding his fresh attention.

To complement these subjective reports, experimental tasks involving
habituation, such as the disappearance of a brain wave sign of arousal to sound or
light stimulation, called alpha blocking, the eyes-closed resting pattern of 8-14
cycles per second, hz, waves perturbed into the arousal pattern of >20 hz, did not
habituate when the subjects were pretreated with entheogenic drugs. This finding
was also true for the results of years of meditative practice. In his 1974
Psychophysiology of Zen, Hirai reported that Soto Zen monks, after many years of
practice in mindful, one pointed, be here now meditation, unlike normal controls,
continued to show alpha blocking surprise, brain wave arousal patterns, throughout
the course of repeated stimulation with auditory clicks.

James Austin in his monumental book, Zen and the Brain (2000) summarizes
other studies of habituation in TM practitioners and other mediators in which eyes
open versus eyes closed, the set and setting and variations in other experimental
variables blurred these results to some degree. He develops the case that years of
meditation-induced brain states of emptiness, we would say of maximal entropy and
minimal form, set the stage for the ecstatically insightful flood accompanying the
sudden insight into a Zen koan’s solution or the transcendent startle induced by a
roshi’s shout. A meditative struggle concerns how one can think about not thinking.
That is, thinking of nothing. This is generally thought to be the most important part
of Zen meditation, called zazen. Achieving high values for brain and behavioral Hr,

Hm, AC and srs supply the formless infrastructure for ecstatic transformation.

117

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013617
