the future cannot be the same as the past. The universe could even be careening toward a
“heat death,” some far-off time when the total stock of energy had uniformly dispersed,
achieving a state of maximum entropy, after which no further change could occur.

If information gua entropy could not be conserved, then Wiener concluded it was
folly for military leaders to try to stockpile the “scientific know-how of the nation in
static libraries and laboratories.” Indeed, “no amount of scientific research, carefully
recorded in books and papers, and then put into our libraries with labels of secrecy, will
be adequate to protect us for any length of time in a world where the effective level of
information is perpetually advancing.” Any such efforts at secrecy, classification, or the
containment of information would fail, Wiener argued, just as surely as hucksters’
schemes for perpetual-motion machines faltered in the face of the second law of
thermodynamics.

Wiener criticized the American “orthodoxy” of free-market fundamentalism in
much the same way. For most Americans, “questions of information will be evaluated
according to a standard American criterion: a thing is valuable as a commodity for what it
will bring in the open market.” Indeed, “the fate of information in the typically American
world is to become something which can be bought or sold;” most people, he observed,
“cannot conceive of a piece of information without an owner.” Wiener considered this
view to be as wrong-headed as rampant military classification. Again he invoked
Shannon’s insight: Since “information and entropy are not conserved,” they are “equally
unsuited to being commodities.”

Information cannot be conserved—so far, so good. But did Wiener really have
Shannon’s “information” in mind? The crux of Shannon’s argument, as Weaver had
emphasized, was to distinguish a colloquial sense of “information,” as message with
meaning, from an abstracted, rarefied notion of strings of symbols arrayed with some
probability and selected from an enormous universe of gibberish. For Shannon,
“information” could be quantified because its fundamental unit, the bit, was a unit of
conveyance rather than understanding.

When Wiener characterized “information” throughout Human Use, on the other
hand, he tilted time and again to a classical, humanistic sense of the term. “A piece of
information,” he wrote—tellingly, not a “bit” of information—“in order to contribute to
the general information of the community, must say something substantially different
from the community’s previous common stock of information.” This was why
“schoolboys do not like Shakespeare,” he concluded: The Bard’s couplets may depart
starkly from random bitstreams, but they had nonetheless become all too familiar to the
sense-making public and “absorbed into the superficial clichés of the time.”

At least the information content of Shakespeare had once seemed fresh. During
the postwar boom years, Wiener fretted, the “enormous per capita bulk of
communication”—ranging across newspapers and movies to radio, television, and
books—had bred mediocrity, an informational reversion to the mean. “More and more
we must accept a standardized inoffensive and insignificant product which, like the white
bread of the bakeries, is made rather for its keeping and selling properties than for its
food value.” “Heaven save us,” he pleaded, “from the first novels which are written
because a young man desires the prestige of being a novelist rather than because he has

111

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016914
