who knows that husbands and wives will still be married in fifteen years? Who

knows that if they are, their careers will not have taken them to another city?

It seems to me that reducing the dangers of debt means reducing both term and
amount, and that the solution had better find ways that still accommodate the short-
term and long-term needs of firms and people.

Now let’s look at how deposit banks might invest.

The Omnibus Fund Idea

If 1 were a couple of decades younger, | would try to create something | call an
omnibus fund. It starts by seeming to contradict what I just said. I said that firms
issue both stocks and bonds to reach different constituencies. The omnibus fund
would first erase that separation. In principle it would reconstruct the firm asa
whole, or put the pieces back together again, by assembling proportionate shares of

the debt and equity claims on it in a single portfolio.

Suppose for example that the market cap (number of shares times current market
quotation) for a firm’s equity shares is one billion dollars, while the market cap of all
debt claims together in half that. Then the omnibus fund, in principle, would buy
each firm’s equities and debt instruments in that proportion at current market

valuation. In practice it could realize the same effect in a simpler way.

The omnibus fund would be a balanced index fund. Index funds are representative
of all the funds in an index, such as the S&P 500, weighted again to market cap. The
omnibus fund would pick a still more inclusive index, say the Russell 3000 or even
the Wilshire 5000. It would add in a corporate bond index, since balanced means
mixing stocks and bonds, and cap weight the two. The object would be to model the
publicly-traded corporate sector as a whole. The simplest way to get there would be
to buy index ETFs (exchange traded funds) directly, rather than duplicating their

work of assembling portfolios of the underlying individual issues.

Chapter 8 Banks, Money and Macroeconomics 2/8/16 3

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011092
