partly a paranoia about email, but even more a controlling crypticness. He kept assistants
and minders at constant bay. You couldn’t really make an appointment with Bannon, you
just had to show up. And somehow, his own key lieutenant, Alexandra Preate, a
conservative fundraiser and PR woman, was as disorganized as he was. After three
marriages, Bannon lived his bachelor’s life on Capitol Hill in a row house known as the
Breitbart Embassy that doubled as the Breitbart office—the life of a messy party. No sane
person would hire Steven Bannon for a job that included making the trains run on time.

OOK Ok

Hence, Reince Priebus.

For the Hill, he was the only reasonable chief among the contenders, and he quickly
became the subject of intense lobbying by House Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate Majority
Leader Mitch McConnell. If they were going to have to deal with an alien like Donald
Trump, then best they do it with the help of a member of their own kind.

Priebus, forty-five, was neither politician nor policy wonk nor strategist. He was
political machine worker, one of the oldest professions. A fundraiser.

A working-class kid originally from New Jersey and then Wisconsin, at thirty-two he
made his first and last run for elective office: a failed bid for Wisconsin state senate. He
became the chairman of the state party and then the general counsel of the Republican
National Committee. In 2011 he stepped up to chairmanship of the RNC. Priebus’s
political cred came from appeasing the Tea Party in Wisconsin, and his association with
Wisconsin governor Scott Walker, a rising Republican star (and, briefly—very briefly—
the 2016 front-runner).

With significant parts of the Republican Party inalterably opposed to Trump, and with
an almost universal belief within the party that Trump would go down to ignominious
defeat, taking the party with him, Priebus was under great pressure after Trump captured
the nomination to shift resources down the ticket and even to abandon the Trump
campaign entirely.

Convinced himself that Trump was hopeless, Priebus nevertheless hedged his bets. The
fact that he did not abandon Trump entirely became a possible margin of victory and made
Priebus something of a hero (equally, in the Kellyanne Conway version, if they had lost,
he would have been a reasonable target). He became the default choice for chief.

And yet his entry into the Trump inner circle caused Priebus his share of uncertainty
and bewilderment. He came out of his first long meeting with Trump thinking it had been
a disconcertingly weird experience. Trump talked nonstop and constantly repeated
himself.

“Here’s the deal,” a close Trump associate told Priebus. “In an hour meeting with him
you're going to hear fifty-four minutes of stories and they’re going to be the same stories

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019908
