— The ECE industry generates approximately $54 billion in total spending in the U.S. and has grown
at a compound annual growth rate of 10% since 1982. It is expected to grow at a 3.4%
compounded annual rate through 2010 according to Harris Nesbitt research. The ECE industry’s
growth has been driven by several favorable social and demographic trends including: the increase
in working mothers and single-parent or dual-income families, historically high birth rates, and
increase in popularity of center-based care.

Net opening of new centers as the integration of KinderCare winds down and the number of center
openings starts exceeding the number of closures.

Leverage of KLC OpCo's footprint to market additional educational products and services to the
more than 300,000 children KLC OpCo interacts with each year, their parents, grandparents and
other child care providers. Selected incremental revenue opportunities include: foreign language or
music lessons, educational materials and financial services (life insurance, health insurance, tuition
financing, etc.).

Growth through acquisitions and industry consolidation

—- Consolidation strategy supported by the highly fragmented early childhood industry, with for-profit
chains representing only approximately 5% of the market In aggregate, and small independent
providers representing 60% of the market.

— Management has demonstrated an ability to grow through acquisitions, as evidenced by the three
networks acquired by KLC since inception, of sizes up to 1,000 centers.

Multiple drivers of expected double-digit growth at k12
— Existing school enrollment rates at k12 expected to continue to increase at double digit rates for at

least the next three years, as k12 further penetrates its existing markets through commercial and
marketing push.

— ki2 currently operates virtual public schools in 11 states and the District of Columbia. As
legislatures in other states permit the formation of virtual public schools, k12 expects to have
opportunities to expand into new states.

4 Utilization is calculated as the total actual child care revenues earned af centers that are open at the calcufation date divided by the total potential
child care revenue (based upon the center’s undiscounted pre-school fuition rate and the center's fotal ficensed capacity) during the related ime
eriod,
 Source: Harris Nesbitf, Education and Training, September 2005.

26

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024459
