Bannon: It’s a great question. I certainly think secularism has sapped the strength of the
Judeo-Christian West to defend its ideals, right?

If you go back to your home countries and your proponent of the defense of the Judeo-
Christian West and its tenets, often times, particularly when you deal with the elites,
you're looked at as someone who is quite odd. So it has kind of sapped the strength.

But I strongly believe that whatever the causes of the current drive to the caliphate was —
and we can debate them, and people can try to deconstruct them — we have to face a very
unpleasant fact: And that unpleasant fact is that there is a major war brewing, a war that’s
already global. It’s going global in scale, and today’s technology, today’s media, today’s
access to weapons of mass destruction, it’s going to lead to a global conflict that I believe
has to be confronted today. Every day that we refuse to look at this as what it is, and the
scale of it, and really the viciousness of it, will be a day where you will rue that we didn’t

act [unintelligible].

“The way that the people who ran the banks
and ran the hedge funds have never really been
held accountable for what they did has fueled
much of the anger 1n the tea party movement 1n
the United States.”

Questioner: Thank you very much. I’m [unintelligible]. I come from Slovakia. This is
actually the source of my two very quick questions. Thank you very much for the work
that you do to promote the Judeo-Christian values in the world. I really appreciate it, and
I also feel that the danger is very high. I have two minor questions, because you have
mentioned, in terms of UKIP and Front National [unintelligible]. From the European
perspective, listening to the language which has become more and more radical from
these two parties, especially before the European Parliament elections, I’m just
wondering what are your plans on how to help these partners from Europe to maybe

focus on the value issues and not with populist? And also it goes in terms — you have

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029079
