can do it. I will have no real further involvement apart from confirming the outcome of my proposed

structure, I will not risk the admonition of- they thought you said, they thought you meant, they understood it
to be. but they said you said, (ie,I asked at our meeting that accounting be done properly for bens house ,
what came back was ada thought that I meant that we needed to go back to the 97 trust and give him a full third
party accounting of where his money had gone??!! I kid you not). I dont think brad should talk to jane heller
without a fully fleshed out plan in place and even then it should be you.

Date: Mon, Nov 30, 2015 at 11:21 AM

Subject: agenda

To: Melanie Spinella|

1 fees, amount and to what entities when and responsiblitis. 2. gagosian idea to save a minimum of 10
mill and maybe more. 3. ican walk you through carlyns screw up, 50 % would have made little difference
and maybe made it worse. 4. we should have an all hands meeting with your family to talk about art
distribution on death. . 5. phaidon, decantings ( already firmly in progress ) loans. (alan ) pent. ( with
follow up ) all part of same elegant transaction, 6 asymetric risk worth at least 50- 60 no matter how you
calculate. Ican explain. 7 lets get the money issue out of the way once and for all. I have my team set to
start.

Date: Fri, Dec 4, 2015 at 8:07 AM
Subject: Fwd: moving forward
To: Melanie Spinella
Thad forgotten that Alan was actually at the table when i explained my note deal to you. _ it was at the end of
the meeting described below. . as you will recall , not once , not even a peep did alan suggest
contemporaneously his hand in the crafting, in fact brad said it was an idea. that HE brad, HAD HAD, from
the begiining . my emails between alan and I that you can read , further confirm authorship. Im sure you recall
the obnoxious tooting when alan said he agreed with my plan. .

Date: Mon, Nov 2, 2015 at 10:03 PM

Subject: moving forward

To: Melanie Spinclla 3 7

I have mixed emotions about what transpired today. really, You saw first hand in nauseating detail what i
have been saying to you for quite a while now. _Joslins answers were totally incomprehensible. the charts he
prepared unreadable. Brads defensive posture was at a minum very surprising . He and I have recently gotten
along quite well , thought. Neither Joslin or Brad understood a 180 million dollar number . no cash flow
after weeks of requesting? odd. when you suggested that heathers behavior was emblematic of a sloppy
office , brad said lets not talk about emblems??! bill pay , admittedly no change for the year. . plane not
done. though it was the only thing i suggested doing first in july. . I sent you a list of 10 consultantts. brad said
three, . 1 didnt want to push it. I was shocked that brad was opining on things he knows little or nothing
about. tax issues. 1031. neg basis , note payoffs ( the same idea he said he had had from the beggining??!!)
. answers re LBF holdings that can be corrected (they cant) . valuations that have never been read. . When
we met in your lobby he seems surprised that 1 was there. I dont know if he felt somewhat sandbagged. ..

the savings on the note payoff is aprrox 33 % of 1.8 billion. real money if you do phaidon which i see no
reason not to . if later josh and ben want to buy it back with you or without you they can. i will walk you
through the structure one on one. . the losses will offeset the calder gain as well as apollo gain.

Im aware that seeing what you saw frustrated you. I felt badly for you.

You wanted a contingent deal. real value. etc. I will not of course hold you to your deal .. its silly. its not
how i work or a reflection of our friendship. my proposal is as follows. I want away from your buisiness , but
at the same time leaving you in good shape. __I think you should pay the 25m that you did not for this

year. for next year its the same 40 m as always, paid 20 in jan and 20 in july, and then we are done. I will give
you advice and counsel but new people will be running your operating machine. I will oversee all the work

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023337
