safeword” and, more commonly, red. I consider it useful to go with the public
standard because that means that in the future, you're likely to be attuned to the correct
word if you practice BDSM with other partners as well. (It also means that if you ever do
S&M in a public space such as a dungeon, everyone in the place will recognize your
safeword if you scream it.)

C) At first wasn't that excited about this, but I've grown to love the fact that the safeword
red also sometimes encompasses green -- and yellow. That means that if I'm in the
middle of an S&M encounter, I can say red and my partner will stop; I can then catch
my breath and say green, which means by God keep going! Or, if I'm a little
uncertain about the territory but don't actually want my partner to stop -- if I just want my
partner to be a little bit cautious -- then I can say yellow (and, of course, I can move to
sreen” if I become really psyched, or shift to red if I really want my partner to stop).

Thomas MacAulay Millar:

My spouse and I use the stoplight system. It's simple, it works, and yellow option is
really useful for things that are getting hard to handle. Also, a lot of bottoms are either
submissives or masochists with more pride and stubbornness than is good for them -- the
former out of an overdeveloped desire to please, the latter sometimes out of a desire to
impress or even just a pitbull-stubborn urge to push themselves as hard as they can go.
Take the personalities that finish an Ironman and collapse and need IV fluids, and put
them on a spanking bench with big welts from a prison strap, and you've got someone
who won't safeword when ze probably should. In those and other circumstances, giving
the bottom an easy option to say, I'm struggling here without feeling like they're
quitting is a very useful thing.

[Editor's Note: ze is the gender-neutral pronoun, and it's in the Glossary. Clarisse
tried to use it regularly for a while, but ultimately concluded that it made her posts less
accessible to non-gender nerds. ]

Clarisse Thorn:

I know that this probably doesn't sound sexy at all, but it totally can be! Consider the
following example: during my last vacation to America, I had an S&M encounter with a
dude I'll refer to as Klark. (It's not my fault. He requested the pseudonym.) At one point,
Klark was experimenting with hurting me, and I had my eyes closed and was whimpering
/ crying out in a totally glorious way. (The poor overnight desk clerk. He was only one
short flight of stairs away from us.) I think Klark was legitimately having trouble
detecting whether I was enjoying myself, though -- understandably, because we had only
just met, and I enjoy sinking myself into dramatic masochistic misery -- so he leaned over
me and said, in a low dark voice, Red, yellow, green. Immediately, I gasped back
Green. Because he spoke in a gritty and dominant voice, and the check-in was quick,
we were able to maintain the mood -- and it was actually kind of hot in itself.

Which brings me to the other thing: check-ins. Sometimes, you want to check in with
your partner. Which can be easy: you can just say, Hey, how does this feel? or, as a
more precise example, Give me a rating of 1-10 on how good this feels (or how much
this hurts). But if you want to do it quickly and without shifting the mood, you can do it

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018468
