Another favorite event is Charles Finch's star-studded dinner at Madeo sponsored by Chanel. |
sit next to Amazon’s Roy Price and Oliver Stone, who sits next to Michael Keaton. | bring over
Pharrell Williams to meet Oliver Stone, director of “Snowden” and “JFK.” The conversation
segwayed from Hillary Clinton to Oliver's new documentary on Putin.

Lily Collins comes over and asks to be introduced to Mick Jagger at the table next to us. She
says, Tell Mick my father says ‘hello. Lily is the daughter of Phil Collins and starred in
Warren Beatty's Rules Don't Apply. Mick, never one to pass up a flirt with an Audrey Hepburn
look-alike, whispers in her ear that he loved her in the film and was on the set, but sadly
missed her.

Spotted: Nicole Kidman, Naomi Watts, Christian Louboutin, Kristen Stewart, Ruth Negga and
“Arrival” director Denis Villeneuve.

Wendy Stark, daughter of Funny Girl producer Ray Stark and granddaughter of Fanny Brice,
invited me to Jeffrey Katzenberg's Night Before Party on the Fox lot for the Motion Picture
Home. Walking around with Linda and Jerry Bruckheimer, | kiss David O. Russell and Colleen
Camp. Brian D'Arcy James tells me he may return to his original role in Hamilton as King
George. | go home with the heaviest swag bag in the world.

Sunday, Feb. 26th

The shocking end of the Oscar show continues to mystify me. How could | be so close to every
filmmaker and totally miss the upset?

Because Damien is still sick, he begs off on his invitation to take me to Guy Oseary's—and
heads back to bed. As | stand at the end of the Vanity Fair carpet at the entrance to the Wallis
Annenberg Center, Casey Affleck arrives holding his Oscar. | ask him to replace Damien as my
escort and he says, Of course. | am leaving in 15 minutes. Don't lose me.” Casey then sends
me off to find Jimmy Kimmel, who has already left the party. Fifteen minutes turns into an hour
as everyone wants a selfie with the winner.

Spotted from “Moonlight”: Barry Jenkins, Mahershala Ali, Naomie Harris, Jeremy Kleiner. From
“La La Land” Emma Stone and John Legend. From “Manchester by the Sea’, Casey Affleck,
Michelle Williams, Lucas Hedges and Kenny Lonergan. From “Hidden Figures”: Taraji P.
Henson, Octavia Spencer and Pharrell Williams, and “Fences” Oscar winner Viola Davis. Also
swirling around the room: Brie Larson, Dakota Fanning, Elton John, Amy Adams, Jennifer
Aniston, Javier Bardem, Michael Shannon, Alicia Vikander, Scarlett Johansson, Lin-Manuel
Miranda, Halle Berry, Isabelle Huppert, Michelle Dockery, Faye Dunaway, Andrew Garfield,
Dakota Johnson, Mick Jagger and family, Kelly Ripa, and Patty and Lydia Hearst. | find
exhausted Oscar show producers Jennifer Todd and Mike De Luca and tell them what a
wonderful job they did.

On the way out, a familiar looking lady keeps waving and smiling at Casey as we wait in the
cold for cars. | say, Casey, that is Monica Lewinsky waving at you. Casey is unfazed; he can’t
wait to get out of the spotlight. Once we reach the Checkpoint Charlie to Guy's party, a team of
girls wrapped in wool instructs the driver to lower the window and asks for a name. Casey,
holding up the Oscar says, Affleck.” She says, You only have a plus one. The real deal is, if

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019854
