General Information 6

Independence

We hereby confirm that we have no conflicts of interest or material involvement in the property which
is the subject of this valuation; and that we are acting as unbiased, independent, external valuers.

RICS Valuer Registration

We confirm that we are in compliance with the RICS Valuer Registration program, which is mandatory
for RICS members in the Caribbean region.

Currency

Unless otherwise stated, all financial figures in this report are expressed in United States Dollars.

Scope of Work

To determine the appropriate scope of work for the assignment, we considered the intended use of
the appraisal, the needs of the user, the complexity of the property, and other pertinent factors. Our
concluded scope of work is described below.

Valuation Methodology

Appraisers usually consider the use of three approaches to value when developing a market value
opinion for real property. These are the cost approach, sales comparison approach, and income
capitalization approach. Use of the approaches in this assignment is summarized as follows:

Approaches to Value

Approach Applicability to Subject Usein Assignment
Cost Approach Not Applicable Not Utilized

Sales Comparison Approach Not Applicable Not Utilized
Income Capitalization Approach Applicable Utilized

The income capitalization approach is the most reliable valuation method for the subject due to the
following:

e The probable buyer of the subject would base a purchase price decision primarily on the
income generating potential of the property and an anticipated rate of return.

e Sufficient market data regarding income, expenses, and rates of return, is available for
analysis.

The sales comparison approach is not applicable to the subject because:

e® This approach does not reflect the primary analysis undertaken by a typical investor-
purchaser.

® There are insufficient sales of comparable properties in this market from which to derive a
credible value conclusion.

The cost approach is not applicable to the subject considering the following:

iGY American Yacht Harbor Marina

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018816
