The study of mental
representations requires a
new scientific discipline

Integrating concepts from
linguistics, cognitive
psychology and
neuroscience within the
methodological framework
of constructionist Artificial
Intelligence

A new common ground
between Al and cognitive
science researchers

Unraveling mental representations will be an interdisciplinary
effort among several cognitive sciences, but distinct from the
disciplines that we find now:

The project will differ from linguistics, for instance, in similar
way as geography differs from plate tectonics. Where linguists
study the intrinsic ‘geography’ of languages, and the structural
commonalities among them, mental representations uncover
the underlying dynamics that produce natural languages (as
the solutions to the problem of translating between
hierarchical, distributed, associative, ambiguous
representations and the discrete strings of symbols that we use
as a means of exchanging and organizing ideas).

Mental representations lie outside the domain of neuroscience,
which mostly focuses on material descriptions of the function
of the underlying substrate. They cannot be studied well within
contemporary psychology, which favors an experimentalist,
quantitative approach, where we need to address qualitative
questions by constructing working, implementable systems.
And needless to say, the study of mental representations is
currently not well represented in Artificial Intelligence
research, which does provide a productive methodology, but
has mostly turned towards applications and narrow Al
solutions.

Despite the lack of a common methodological ground between
the cognitive sciences, we can now observe a growing
consensus on how to approach the problem of modeling the
mind, and its representational apparatus. During the last
decade, a number of initiatives have sprung up within Al,
psychology and cognitive science, each with journals,
workshops and conference series, and a large personal overlap
among each community. Examples include Artificial General
Intelligence (AGI), Biologically Inspired Cognitive Architectures
(BICA), Cognitive Systems, and Cognitive Modeling (ICCM).
Among those groups, there is an emerging consensus on
several paradigms:

- Integrated architectures of cognition. We need to study
whole, working systems, both for the purpose of
comparison between approaches, but mainly, because
cognition is not the product of the activity of individual
modular functions, but of the interaction between them.

- Universal representations. Representations must provide
both distributed and localist aspects, to enable neural
learning, information retrieval via spreading activation, as
well as symbolic processing (language and planning).

- Perceptual grounding. Representations should be
grounded in an environmental interaction context, using a
bottom-up/top-down perception paradigm, to allow for

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_027005
