convincing now than the arguments in support of the Kellogg-Briand
pact eighty-two years ago or those advanced at the General
Disarmament Conference in Geneva that followed in 1932. When the
discussions in Geneva bogged down after a year of talk, President
Roosevelt insisted that “if all nations would agree to eliminate
entirely from possession and use the weapons which make possible a
successful attack, defenses automatically would become impregnable
and the frontiers and independence of every nation would become
secure.” Therefore, he said, the ultimate objective of the conference
must be “complete elimination of all offensive weapons.”

So what is today’s argument for the complete elimination of all
nuclear weapons, a goal President Obama embraced to wild applause
in Prague in 2009? The statement that launched “global zero”
appeared in the Wall Street Journal on January 4, 2007, under the
title “A World Free of Nuclear Weapons.” Signed by George Shultz,
Henry Kissinger, William Perry, Sam Nunn, and others, it was the
product of a conference at the Hoover Institution at Stanford
University in October of the previous year. It is a tribute to the
reputation and high standing of the authors that their statement has
been endorsed by many statesmen and policy officials who regard
themselves as realists, as well as precipitating a worldwide campaign
supporting the concept, if not the details, of a nuclear-free world. [1]
The article has been followed by further statements from them and
others, as well as movies, media appearances, press conferences,
congressional and presidential speeches, international conferences,
demonstrations, and the like. “Global zero” organizations have been
established on many university campuses in the US and abroad, and
tens of millions of dollars have flowed into research institutions and
advocacy groups in support of the idea of the total elimination of
nuclear weapons. With T-shirts, bumper stickers, and celebrity
endorsements, it’s a full-blown happening.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023493
