who's got it worse, it becomes clear that the advantages and drawbacks associated with
being both male and female are intertwined. The two systems reinforce, and cannot
function without, each other. The gender binary may not hurt everyone equally, but it
hurts everyone. As those beautiful Every Girl / Every Boy posters say, the most
obvious example is: For every girl who is tired of acting weak when she is strong, there
is a boy tired of appearing strong when he feels vulnerable.”

I do suspect that it may not be psychologically realistic to ask people from our underdog-
loving culture to embrace an image of themselves as privileged; my thoughts turn again
to the trans man who hated the thought of being a white male. But if we feminists can't
work productively from a stance that acknowledges our social advantages, how can we
expect straight/dominant/big-dicked men to do it?

Could feminist acknowledgment of the women's gender-based advantages help pave the
way for more men to acknowledge male privilege? Could feminist acknowledgment of the
advantages on both sides of the gender binary help us better grasp what sucks about
being a guy?

Am I citing Thomas MacAulay Millar too much here? Well, at least once, he frustrated
me. Amongst the comments on one blog post, I thought he was stating his views about
stereotypical guys rather harshly. I suggested that it might be better to seek common
ground, or at least to explain things gently; he said he wasn't interested -- I think we all
work with some people where they are and can't soft-sell our views enough to deal with
others. He added, If I'm going to alienate someone for saying what I think too bluntly,
I'll pick entitled cis het dudes.

I won't pretend I didn't laugh when I read that -- but I worried about it, too. I've had an
enormous number of experiences trying to discuss feminism/sex/gender with men in
which the men tensed, bristled, and closed me out. I don't think it was always because
those guys couldn't stand the thought of losing their privilege, either. I think a lot of
dudes have been led to feel that they have no place in gender discussions -- that those
discussions will always be about what men are doing wrong, and that no one's prepared
to work with them where they are.

All groups have outsiders. Movements inevitably form themselves around oppositional
forces. As someone who's spent her share of time feeling feminist rage, I'd say that being
filled with feminist rage is totally understandable. And seriously, don't get me wrong: I'm
not giving unfeminist guys a free pass. I'm not happy about the fact that so many men are
apparently alienated from feminism because us radicals are too confrontational -- or too
uncomfortably correct -- for their fragile masculine egos to handle. (I'm being sarcastic!
Mostly.) I'm really not happy about the fact that I've got to think about marketing anti-
oppression -- in a just universe, wouldn't anti-oppression market itself?

But at the same time, I'm a realist. I know this isn't a just universe, and I want to use
tactics that'll achieve my goals. Which are: I'd really like to find more men at my side in
the sex and gender wars. I'd really like to talk to more guys who don't see ideas stamped
with feminism as an attack -- rather, as an opportunity for alliance. Plus, if we're going to
think in terms of cold hard tactics, it's worth noting that normative men hold most of the
power in America. (That's part of what we're complaining about, right?) So swelling our

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018579
