http:/Awww.huffingtonpost.com/conchita-s-sarnoff/child-trafficking b_1269748.html

Conchita Sarnoff

Communications expert

Regulating Modeling Agencies to Help
Prevent Child Sex Trafficking

Posted: 02/10/2012 8:49 pm

In 2010, Jezebel, an online site, published The Sex Trafficking Model Scout” warning about the
dangers of deregulated modeling agencies in the U.S,

Given the growing number of modeling agencies that transport underage teenagers from foreign
countries into the United States and the growing sex trade of underage girls in the U.S. why does
this industry remain deregulated?

Since the advent of this business, modeling agencies have had free reign to scout teenagers from
every state in the country as well as every nation in the world. Many of these teenage girls come
from economically disadvantaged families and are offered none to very limited protection while
traveling and working as “models.”

Jezebel reported that Jean Luc Brunel, one of the cast of characters involved in the ongoing
Jeffrey Epstein (a level 3 registered sex offender), eight-year-long case, has been working for
over two decades with a succession of agencies in New York and Paris. According to media
reports, Diane Sawyer produced a segment for CBS's 60 Minutes featuring a sex scandal that
eventually led Eileen Ford (founder of renowned Ford modeling agency) to stop working with
Brunel.

Brunel's latest venture is the modeling agency MC2 based in South Beach, Fla. with satellite
offices in New York and Tel Aviv. Since his agency is deregulated and no criminal charges
have been filed by any of his accusers -- although many have tried to serve him including
lawyers representing Epstein's victims, Brunel continues to hide behind his French citizenship to
prevent depositions. Trawling for 5'11 underage teenagers to work for his agency, MC2, or
anyone else who requests, Brunel is free to scout for very young girls without limitations. Given
his citizenship he also successfully avoided deposition in Epstein's sex related cases.

Like so many other reporters who have tried to report his side of the story when Jezebel
contacted Brunel, he did not respond to our interview request. According to Jezebel:

27

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011938
