4. McDonough’s statement that the U.S. is not at war with Islam is a pleasant Control Factor fantasy but does
little to eliminate the fact that the enemy has declared it so. We can walk away and pretend there is no war,
follow the deceptive words of those in this country engaged in the Civilization Jihad who attack us for any
response to the war other than bending over backwards to accommodate Islam and tolerate that which does not
tolerate anything other than itself. Yet that path leads only to further the cause of the enemy.

5. Perhaps most telling of all of McDonough’s statement is the word “never.” To claim we will never be at war
with Islam regardless of what Islam or Muslims worldwide do to us is the height of Dhimmitude—a phrase coined
by Bat Yeor, an expert on Dhimmi behavior throughout Islamic history. In Islam, a Dhimmi is generally a Jew or
Christian (there are others) who has agreed to accept a lesser and humiliating status with duties including the
payment of a special tax, in exchange for life in an Islamic controlled land. It is a protection contract: you can
live as long as you abide by these conditions. In claiming that we could “never” be at war with Islam, McDonough
has staked out Dhimmi status for all non-Muslims in the U.S. and has put words to the famous act of Obama in
bowing to the King of Saudi Arabia.

By denying that we are at war with Islam, McDonough has admitted that those words have meaning, just that
they do not fit U.S. policy. By denying that the U.S. would ever be at war with Islam, McDonough has sent the
message of unconditional surrender in advance. This is pure Control Factor maneuvering and threatens our nation
worse than the underlying threat itself. Put simply, our Constitution does not afford us easy ways to combat the
threat we face- we can fight certain types of terrorism in certain (albeit still under great dispute) ways yet we
have no effective means to combat the Civilization Jihad and are fast losing leverage to resist the International
Institutional Jihad. Unless and until we all obtain better control over our Control Factors so that we can develop
sufficient acceptable means to fight on these levels, we are headed to self-destruction.

FamilySecuri tyMatters.org Contributing Editor Bill Siegel lives in New York and is the author of the forthcoming book, The Control Factor ©.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031690
