The same is true in life and in lifestyles.

Challenging the Status Quo vs. Being Stupid

Max people walk down the street on their legs. Does that mean I walk down the street on my hands?

Do I wear my underwear outside of my pants in the name of being different’? Not usually, no. Then
again, walking on my legs and keeping my thong on the inside have worked just fine thus far. I don’t fix
it if it isn’t broken.

Different is better when it is more effective or more fun.

If everyone is defining a problem or solving it one way and the results are subpar, this is the time to
ask, What if I did the opposite? Don’t follow a model that doesn’t work. If the recipe sucks, it doesn’t
matter how good a cook you are.

When I was in data storage sales, my first gig out of college, I realized that most cold calls didn’t get
to the intended person for one reason: gatekeepers. If I simply made all my calls from 8:00-8:30 A.M.
and 6:00-6:30 PM., for a total of one hour, I was able to avoid secretaries and book more than twice as
many meetings as the senior sales executives who called from 9-5. In other words, I got twice the results
for 1/8 the time.

From Japan to Monaco, from globetrotting single mothers to multimillionaire racecar drivers, the basic
rules of successful NR are surprisingly uniform and predictably divergent from what the rest of the
world is doing.

The following rules are the fundamental differentiators to keep in mind throughout this book.

1. Retirement Is Worst-Case-Scenario Insurance.

Retirement planning is like life insurance. It should be viewed as nothing more than a hedge against the
absolute worst-case scenario: in this case, becoming physically incapable of working and needing a
reservoir of capital to survive.

Retirement as a goal or final redemption is flawed for at least three solid reasons:

1. _—‘It is predicated on the assumption that you dislike what you are doing during the most physically
capable years of your life. This is a nonstarter—nothing can justify that sacrifice.

2. Most people will never be able to retire and maintain even a hotdogs-for-dinner standard of living.
Even one million is chump change in a world where traditional retirement could span 30 years and
inflation lowers your purchasing power 2-4% per year. The math doesn’t work.2The golden years
become lower-middle-class life revisited. That’s a bittersweet ending.

3. If the math does work, it means that you are one ambitious, hardworking machine. If that’s the
case, guess what? One week into retirement, youll be so damn bored that you’ll want to stick
bicycle spokes in your eyes. You’ll probably opt to look for a new job or start another company.
Kinda defeats the purpose of waiting, doesn’t it?

I’m not saying don’t plan for the worst case—I have maxed out 401(k)s and IRAs I use primarily for

tax purposes—but don’t mistake retirement for the goal.

2. Interest and Energy Are Cyclical.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013819
