vili

details of the previous chapters, but (we believe) not so sensitively as to be incomprehensible
without them.

This is admittedly an unusual sort of book, mixing demonstrated conclusions with unproved
conjectures in a complex way, all oriented toward an extraordinarily ambitious goal. Further,
the chapters are somewhat variant in their levels of detail — some very nitty-gritty, some more
high level, with much of the variation due to how much concrete work has been done on the
topic of the chapter at time of writing. However, it is important to understand that the ideas
presented here are not mere armchair speculation — they are currently being used as the basis
for an open-source software project called OpenCog, which is being worked on by software
developers around the world. Right now OpenCog embodies only a percentage of the overall
CogPrime design as described here. But if OpenCog continues to attract sufficient funding
or volunteer interest, then the ideas presented in these volumes will be validated or refuted
via practice. (As a related note: here and there in this book, we will refer to the current
CogPrime implementation (in the OpenCog framework); in all cases this refers to OpenCog as
of late 2013.)

To state one believes one knows a workable path to creating a human-level (and potentially
greater) general intelligence is to make a dramatic statement, given the conventional way of
thinking about the topic in the contemporary scientific community. However, we feel that once
a little more time has passed, the topic will lose its drama (if not its interest and importance),
and it will be widely accepted that there are many ways to create intelligent machines — some
simpler and some more complicated; some more brain-like or human-like and some less so; some
more efficient and some more wasteful of resources; etc. We have little doubt that, from the
perspective of AGI science 50 or 100 years hence (and probably even 10-20 years hence), the
specific designs presented here will seem awkward, messy, inefficient and circuitous in various
respects. But that is how science and engineering progress. Given the current state of knowledge
and understanding, having any concrete, comprehensive design and plan for creating AGI is
a significant step forward; and it is in this spirit that we present here our thinking about the
CogPrime architecture and the nature of general intelligence.

In the words of Sir Edmund Hillary, the first to scale Everest: “Nothing Venture, Nothing
Win.”

Prehistory of the Book

The writing of this book began in earnest in 2001, at which point it was informally referred to
as “The Novamente Book.” The original “Novamente Book” manuscript ultimately got too big
for its own britches, and subdivided into a number of different works — The Hidden Pattern
[Goe06a], a philosophy of mind book published in 2006; Probabilistic Logic Networks [GIGHO8],
a more technical work published in 2008; Real World Reasoning [GGC 11], a sequel to Proba-
bilistic Logic Networks published in 2011; and the two parts of this book.

The ideas described in this book have been the collaborative creation of multiple overlapping
communities of people over a long period of time. The vast bulk of the writing here was done by
Ben Goertzel; but Cassio Pennachin and Nil Geisweiller made sufficient writing, thinking and
editing contributions over the years to more than merit their inclusion of co-authors. Further,
many of the chapters here have co-authors beyond the three main co-authors of the book; and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012904
