left me felling quite uneasy.

since you asked since last nov. ifound 11 million dollars in dormant accounts. 4 million dollars in eileens
drawer. . went through cash flows for phaidon shwoing that john murphy is not an accountant. redid your
gagosian contract ,. organized structure in case of divorce. set up gift trust. stopped ada from including
multiple times things not in your interest. dealt with bad sales tax use tax income tax . created 8 millino in
deductions ,500k in mistakes , found bank of scotland fbar problems, . . reorg bad art purchases , funds taken, ,
charibale decustions , helped with fincnacil sttment gamoing commions fling. . boat deductions, rescued stock
from grats.. may 1 after months of brad not finding anyone 1 sent an email saying you would have to pay
more. . on april 15. I sent an email detailing payments owed if 1 could figure out the basis issue, please see
attached, .

questions you might ask your team ask them to provide a balance sheet or p&l for REgan arts. . doesnt exist
ask . either wechsler or haperin to tell you what brh is, or how the tra works. .. ? as bronstein to tell you why
the proposed phaidon transaction DOES not work. . as them to give you a plan for the plane. ? ask them to
show you the cash mgmt for over 100 million dollars. . ask them to show you the IT system progress after one
year. . the approval process for payables. . the cash flow projections? assumptions? ask for a comparative
review of investments. ask haperin to describle to you in any detail BRH , the major asset of his two biggest
clients. tax basis, disposiotion in the estate. . etc. ask brad to show you the liquidation of the inteveing art space
cos? .

Last year you asked , for my help I told you I preferred not as we would be better off having no financial
intereactions. the risk was not worth it. You told me that as my friend i had to do it Iagreed., here we are
in what I find to be an awkward situation. the transactions that i decvised were used , our agreement was
ignored. and im not sure how to respond.

Date: Tue, Oct 27, 2015 at 6:35 AM
Subject: Detailed constructive list.
To: Melanie Spinella
Cc: Brad Wechsler

Deciisions needed asap 1 phaidon. topco etc. .( cash needs) many wires needed !! 2 new trustee or not. -
new decantings 3 art in art partnership.??! .overdue ?!4 grats? window - 5 art space. .6 regan arts.
.7 plane simplify re strucuture re finance. re purpose . 8 .boat restrucutre , sister, 9 re fresh estate plan. to
consider modifications Alex Victoria equal does not mean same. 10. tra review , sale. , 11 brh, doc
review, 12. sale of stock or art ? tax, rent sale 13. gifts of art. 14. charity current and future pledges
, gifts, 15 cash flow. . 16. new IT and new personnel. 17. operational re-do ( bill pay etc). 18 debra and
children ? current and future involvement . notifications etc. . new dynasty trust ? 19. tax plan and
dislosures gaming. foreign apollo and phaidon related . 20. investments rationalize incl trading accouints .
21. bank loans . rates ? ? terms etc. consolidate. plane boat houses. disclosures? 22 . consolidate and review
and reduce the number of all bank accounts and legal entities. decanting liquidating etc. . 23 all outside
consultants? valuations etc. 24 review legal bills carefullly. 25. third party responsibilty Bens house , alex
films . etc.

Date: Tue, Nov 3, 2015 at 10:45 PM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella

okay, its time for you to decide how you would like to move forward. ( fyi get your money from the

1031 . the screw up is only one of many,) If you decide to move foward on decanting. phaidon, note basis
estate update , each requires many carefully orchestrated detailed steps. and precision . there are hundreds of
millions in saving if done correctly and a huge mess if not. If you want me and my colleagues to do it ,
oversee it paper it and guide it, you should tell me. It is a big undertaking . If not , ok .. Brad and your crew

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023336
