11

lay

ae eel el a en ee 5 |
NS hE AY ET AY

Centre De Formation Technique Pour
L’Avancement Des Jeunes Du Sud’Est Inc.

After detailed evaluation of the overall situation in the country and methods of community
development, CEFOTAJ came to the following expected results indicated in the following sections:

Training Plan

This project’s goal is to improve the living conditions of urban young people. It aims specifically at
the establishment of new social structures for youth. This project consists particularly in training
them in handling of scissors, cutting of canvas, training in patterns, use of the computer in couture,
and the use of specialized sewing machines. The project will be implemented in Jacmel.

A solid structure will be established to work on complete implementation of the project, which will
be carried out by CEFOTAJ. The project will be managed by the administrative committee of
CEFOTAJ. The goal of the Center is to instruct individuals in almost all facets of the textile
industry in relation to working in a factory. Students will be trained efficiently and effectively to the
following techniques:

e Handling of scissors

e Cutting of canvas

e Preparation of patterns

e Use of the computer in sewing

e Use of specialized sewing machines

e Finished product for the international market

e Evaluation and adjustment of the finished product

e uality of garments according to the seasons
g g

The center has formulated a plan to devise students into three distinct groups to be trained in.
Students accepted to the center will be developed via one of the following:

e Young people who have no knowledge of garment-making. Their training will last for one
yeat.

e Young people who already have some knowledge of garment-making. Their training will last
for nine months.

e Young people who are interested in haute couture. This is a three-year training program.

The trainees will not be charged entrance fees or monthly payments. However, they will have to
obtain the tools necessary for their training.

The trainees will be chosen on the following bases:

PO Box 666 Brentwood, NY 11717 © Phone (631) 273-4100 © Fax (631) 273-4111 © yair@cefotaj.org © Wwww.cefotaj.org

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019458
