smaller but more dedicated electoral base—just as, in cable television terms, a smaller
hardcore base was more valuable than a bigger, less committed one; (2) this meant an
inverse dedication by an equally small circle of passionate enemies; (3) hence, there
would be blood.

If Bannon was as finished as he appeared in the White House, this was his opportunity,
too. Indeed, the problem with Bannon’s $1.5 million a year Internetcentric Breitbart News
was that it couldn’t be monetized or scaled up in a big way, but with O’Reilly and Hannity
on board, there could be television riches fueled by, into the foreseeable future, a new
Trump-inspired era of right-wing passion and hegemony.

Ailes’s message to his would-be protégé was plain: Not just the rise of Trump, but the
fall of Fox could be Bannon’s moment.

In reply, Bannon let Ailes know that for now, he was trying to hold on to his position in
the White House. But yes, the opportunity was obvious.

7 OK Ok

Even as O’Reilly’s fate was being debated by the Murdochs, Trump, understanding
O’Reilly’s power and knowing how much O’Reilly’s audience overlapped with his own
base, had expressed his support and approval—‘“T don’t think Bill did anything wrong... .
He is a good person,” he told the New York Times.

But in fact a paradox of the new strength of conservative media was Trump himself.
During the campaign, when it suited him, he had turned on Fox. If there were other media
opportunities, he took them. (In the recent past, Republicans, particularly in the primary
season, paid careful obeisance to Fox over other media outlets.) Trump kept insisting that
he was bigger than just conservative media.

In the past month, Ailes, a frequent Trump caller and after-dinner adviser, had all but
stopped speaking to the president, piqued by the constant reports that Trump was bad-
mouthing him as he praised a newly attentive Murdoch, who had, before the election, only
ever ridiculed Trump.

“Men who demand the most loyalty tend to be the least loyal pricks,” noted a sardonic
Ailes (a man who himself demanded lots of loyalty).

The conundrum was that conservative media saw Trump as its creature, while Trump
saw himself as a star, a vaunted and valued product of all media, one climbing ever higher.
It was a cult of personality, and he was the personality. He was the most famous man in
the world. Everybody loved him—or ought to.

On Trump’s part this was, arguably, something of a large misunderstanding about the
nature of conservative media. He clearly did not understand that what conservative media
elevated, liberal media would necessarily take down. Trump, goaded by Bannon, would
continue to do the things that would delight conservative media and incur the wrath of

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020031
