Miles Alexander

Operations Manager

Michaelhouse Pvt Bag X1 Balgowan KwaZulu-Natal 3275 South Africa

Telephon Facsimile Ps www.michaelhouse.org
>>> Brad Edwards <I. 2016-05-17 07:42 PM >>>

Dear Miles and Kathy Alexander,

|, along with several other attorneys, represent [iin She needs your help and we are hoping
for your assistance. She doesn't need much. In fact, all she needs are some good, honest people who are
willing to just tell the truth. That seems like a simple request that any compassionate person would
accommodate; however, for some reason many people have instead decided to stay out of it and allow

a io continue to suffer. A small number of good people have stood up for what is right and told the
truth. We do not currently know where you stand but we know that you have helpful information and
are hopeful that you will cooperate in sharing that information with us.

| have investigated various related aspects of this unfortunate story for 8 years now. [is one of
numerous clients | have represented in related matters. And only wants one thing - for the truth
to be known and for her story to protect others. She was a teenager when she was recruited to travel
with Ghislaine Maxwell and Jeffrey Epstein. After 2 years she escaped that life and lived in a,
hoping to forget what she had been through. After Mr. Epstein was arrested for doing similar things to
other girls that he had done to her AMM ccidea to speak out about what really had transpired while
traveling with Maxwell and Epstein, including events that occurred on Little St. James.

She remembers you and your wife fondly. We read the interview you gave a few years back. There can
be no doubt that we absolutely appreciate the probably unwanted media attention that your previous
interview drew. We are not at all looking for a second round of that. We are not the media. We do not
need any public interview. We are not concerned with anything other than the facts, from your own
observations or what you heard while working on the island. We just want to speak with you.

came back to the United States to help others similarly victimized. Specifically, she started a non-
profit charity to help sex abuse victims. She very bravely told her story with the goal of starting a new life
helping others. Unfortunately, Ms. Maxwell told the world that was lying, which has thus far had
the impact of destroying E's charity. We are in litigation with Ms. Maxwell where we have to prove
something that should be very simple - that I is in fact telling the truth in her story of being
recruited by Ms. Maxwell to travel and work for Mr. Epstein. We know she is being truthful. We also
know that there are numerous witnesses who also know she is. But many of the witnesses still work for
Mr. Epstein or cannot be located.

a. as well as any others similarly situated - deserves the truth. And that is all we are trying to
capture for her. We promise not to let anyone in the media know we are talking to you. We are not
looking to drag you into anything. We are not looking for anything at all more than the truth, and Virginia
has told us that of all the people who worked for Mr. Epstein you were the most likely to help.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022996
