=

October 28-29, 2017 D

COMMENT

OPINION

ChinaDaily
chinadaily.com.cn/opinion

Robert Lawrence Kuhn

New era on the road to 2050

witnessed history sitting in the Great
Hall of the People during the 19th
National Congress of the Communist
Party of China. I listened raptly to
Xi Jinping, general secretary of the CPC
Central Committee, when he delivered his
new-era-defining report. I heard the
amendment to the Party Constitution that
enshrined “Xi Jinping Thought on Social-
ism with Chinese Characteristics for a New
Era”. I watched members of the new Stand-
ing Committee of the Political Bureau of the
CPC Central Committee walk out on stage. I
was awed by the presence of the leadership,
past and present. And I was overawed by
Xi’s grand vision for China and the country’s
increasing, radiating confidence. Most of all,
I marveled at the remarkable and historic
transformation of China, which means so
much to the Chinese people and which in
this new era will mean so much to the rest
of the world.

Having departed the Great Hall of the
People, I reflected how I, an American,
found myself caught up in the welling Chi-
nese patriotism of the 19th CPC National
Congress. Certainly, I was experiencing first-
hand this inflection point in Chinese histo-
ry, when China envisions itself becoming a
fully modernized country and taking pro-
active part in international affairs, and
regaining its leading seat at the high table of
great nations.

What have I just witnessed? Following are
some personal observations.

Ageneral consensus describes four pri-
mary outcomes of the 19th Party Congress:
Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chi-
nese Characteristics for a New Era; a new
“contradiction” that defines China’s princi-
pal social challenge; a China that takes “cen-
ter stage in the world”; and the Party
enhancing its leadership of society, includ-
ing maintaining, indeed intensifying, its
anti-corruption campaign.

To me, however, a highlight was the speci-
ficity of Xi’s vision of China, not only estab-
lishing policies for the next five years, but also
framing the agenda and setting the strategies
for the next 30 years. This congress, Xi said, is
the “confluence” of the “Iwo Centenary
Goals”: a moderately prosperous society by
2020 (2021 being the 100th anniversary of
the CPC), which will likely be fulfilled within
the term of the 19th Party Congress, and a
great, modern, socialist country by 2050
(2049 being the 100th anniversary of the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China), which is being
planned by the 19th Party Congress.

Ina multi-meaning refinement, the path
to mid-century is now designed in two sta-
ges. In the first stage, from 2020 to 2035, the
Party states it will build on the foundation of
the moderately prosperous society such that,
after “15 years of hard work’; the country will
basically realize “socialist modernization’:

Inthe second stage, from 2035 to 2050, the
CPC states it will build on a basically achieved
modernization, “work hard for a further 15
years” and “develop China into a great mod-
ern socialist country that is prosperous,
strong, democratic, culturally advanced, har-
monious, and beautiful’: China portrays its
mid-century self as a global leader in every
area of human consequence: economics and
trade, science and technology, military and
defense, culture and governance.

But Chinese leaders, and officials in gener-
al, seem to have a different highlight. While
the “Two Centenary Goals” are certainly vital,
especially with new stages and specificity, they
focus on the amendment to the Party Consti-
tution: “Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with
Chinese Characteristics for a New Era”.

“The (Xi’s) thought is the biggest high-
light of the 19th National Congress of the
CPC and a historic contribution to the Par-
ty’s development,” said Zhang Dejiang, the
third-ranking member of the Standing
Committee of the Political Bureau of the
18th CPC Central Committee. Liu Yunshan,
the fifth-ranking member, said the elevation
of Xi’s thought to the Party’s guiding princi-
ple is of great political, theoretical and prac-
tical significance.

I take a closer look at Xi’s thought: first by
examining each of its elements, then by con-
sidering its unified significance.

“Xi Jinping” is the “core” of the CPC Cen-
tral Committee and of the whole Party, and
he thereby at the top level provides the “cen-
tralism” of the Party’s cardinal principle of
democratic centralism.

The “Thought” is the totality of Xi’s fun-
damental principles. I see four broad cate-
gories: people orientation, national
rejuvenation, comprehensive development,
and Party leadership.

In his report, Xi listed 14 categories: Party
leadership over all aspects of society; peo-
ple-centered policies; deepening reform
comprehensively; new concept of develop-
ment (innovation, coordination, green,
open, and sharing); people as masters of the
country; adherence to rule of law, compre-
hensively governing the country by law;
socialist value system and cultural confi-

dence; protecting and improving people's
livelihoods; harmonious coexistence of man.
and nature (ecological civilization); national
security; the Party’s absolute leadership
over the military; “one country, two sys-
tems” and promoting reunification with Tai-
wan; international community of a shared.
future for all humanity; and comprehensive
and strict Party governance.

The term “thought” in Chinese has special
meaning because before this it had been
associated only with Mao Zedong — “Mao
Zedong Thought”.

“Socialism” is a set of political ideas with a
complex history, unified by public or com-
mon ownership of the means of production
and concern for the masses.

“Chinese characteristics” is the phrase,
originating with Deng Xiaoping, that adapts
Marxism to China’s special conditions — the
Sinicization of Marxism in modern China —
which includes the market playing a decisive
role in the allocation of resources and the
encouragement of non-public, for-profit busi-
nesses, while at the same time State-owned
enterprises still playing a dominant role.

“New Era” is a new idea in the constitu-
tional amendment, and it is designed to
profoundly transform the essence of social-
ism with Chinese characteristics into the
vision, concepts and strategies that com-
pose Xi’s way of thinking.

The more I reflect, the more I see “New
Era” as a conceptual lens with which to view
the 19th Party Congress. Semi-official Party
analysts say the new era answers five ques-
tions.

hensiveness of the cate-
gories were clear,
amplified by the commit-
ment to deepen reform.
Here, by category, are
what stood out.

The Party and the
fight against corrup-
tion. Confidence in
socialism and the
increasing role of the
Party in managing all
aspects of the country is unequivocal, and.
the increasingly strict governance of the
Party, by reforming and purifying itself, is
unambiguous. Moreover, the anti-corrup-
tion campaign not only continues but also
will be enhanced.

Economy. After more than three decades
of rapid growth, China’s economy has been
transitioning to slower but higher-quality
growth. Supply-side structural reform has
been written into the Constitution. No GDP
growth targets are set. The country focuses
on the real economy (as opposed to specula-
tion, such as in the real estate sector). China
is not backing away from State-owned
enterprises, rather it will support State capi-
tal in “becoming stronger, doing better, and
growing bigger, thereby turning Chinese
enterprises into world-class, globally com-
petitive firms”

Consumption is fundamental in driving
economic growth. The framework of regula-
tions must be improved, prudent macroeco-
nomic and monetary policy maintained,
and interest and exchange rates made more

Robert
Lawrence Kuhn

‘Xi said, an example of his plainspoken can-
dor. “It will take more than drum-beating
and gong-clanging to get there.”

The speculations of China watchers, and
the focus of the international media, have
been on the new Standing Committee of the
Political Bureau of the CPC Central Commit-
tee. Because everything in China reports to
astanding committee member, composition.
and balance determine the vision, strategies
and policies that will shape China.

This remains true today, but less true
today. It is hard to overstate the signifi-
cance of Xi Jinping’s name written into the
Party Constitution. Xi is now, officially, the
originating designator and overarching
arbiter of “Thought” as it relates to “Social-
ism with Chinese Characteristics for a New
Era’, which is the guiding political theory of
China and encompasses, essentially, every-
thing in China. For Xi to be named in the
CPC Constitution is the ultimate in authori-
ty, surpassing even “core” (which already
had superseded all other leaders), thus set-
ting into perpetuity Xi’s predominant sta-
tus and assuring his preeminence in the
country’s political life.

That said, to know China is to know the
members of the Standing Committee. They
are a highly competent, highly experienced
group: six of the seven have run provinces
or province-level municipalities, many of
which, in terms of population and GDP, are
the equivalent of major nations.

Traditional norms of balance and age are
respected. It’s a diverse group — by geogra-
phy, education and political career. They

What “road” to take? Socialism with Chi-
nese characteristics under new historical
conditions.

‘What kind of country to build? First, a
moderately prosperous society and then a
modernized socialist country.

‘What development to realize? Better life
and common prosperity for all.

‘What goal to achieve? The great rejuvena-
tion of the Chinese nation.

What contribution to make? Facilitate
world peace and prosperity (exemplified by
the Belt and Road Initiative of building
infrastructure in developing countries).

Thus, Xi Jinping joins only Mao Zedong
and Deng Xiaoping in having his name
affixed to a political philosophy in the Party
Constitution, a blazing sign lost on no one.
It then would follow that the “New Era” into
which China is now entering is the third era
of the CPC and by extension of the People’s
Republic of China.

Aseemingly subtle but significant
change is the Party's judgment of what con-
stitutes the fundamental “contradiction” in
Chinese society. (“Contradiction” is a Marx-
ist term expressing a particular way of
political thinking — dialectical materialism.
— which identifies “dynamic opposing for-

es” in society and seeks to resolve the
resulting tensions).

The principal contradiction has evolved
from one between the ever-growing materi-
al and cultural needs of the people and
backward social production to that between
“anbalanced and inadequate development
and the people's ever-growing needs for a
better life,” Xi said. The needs for the people
to live a better life are increasingly broad
and have to be met. Not only have their
material and cultural needs grown; their
demands for democracy, rule of law, fairness
and justice, security, and a better environ-
ment are increasing.

This “New-Era” contradiction, replacing
quantitative GDP growth with qualitative
improvement of life, is what will drive Chi-
na’s policy.

The mission of a CPC congress is to review
and assess achievements of the previous five
years, and to forecast challenges and set tar-
gets for the subsequent five years (and
beyond). Overall, for the 19th Party Congress,
the ambition of the goals and the compre-

market-based. For economic development,
innovation leads, especially in science and
technology.

Poverty alleviation. Xi has made the
elimination of extreme poverty in China by
2020 a cornerstone of his domestic policy.
After all, how could China claim to have
achieved a moderately prosperous society
by 2020 if millions of its citizens would be
still living in extreme poverty?

Opening-up. China reasserts its com-
mitment to become more open, including
easing market access and protecting the
rights and interests of foreign investors.
China’s economists see foreign competition
as upgrading the quality and cost efficiency
of Chinese companies, thus better serving
Chinese consumers.

Rule of Law. Strengthening and institu-
tionalizing the rule of law, and weakening
arbitrary rule of officials, is a priority.
Reflecting Xi’s commitment, the Party is set-
ting up a central leading group for advanc-
ing law-based governance in all areas,
coordinating the activities of judicial
organs. The goal is to complete the transfor-
mation of China’s legal system by 2035 with
theoretical foundations and practical
enforcement.

Ecology. Beautiful China is one of the
country’s main descriptions for its second
centenary goal by the middle of the century.
This modernization is characterized by har-
monious coexistence between humanity
and nature (such as nature parks) and it
requires substantial bolstering of regulatory
agencies and their enforcement powers.

Armed forces. China's goal is to trans-
form the People’s Liberation Army into a
world-class military by mid-century, basical-
ly completing military reform and moderni-
zation by 2035, with information
technology/cyber applications and strategic
capabilities prioritized.

Especially significant for Xi’s mission are
the two “anti’s” — anti-corruption and anti-
poverty — the former to support the Party’s
continuing leadership, the latter as a prime
example of what the Party has delivered.

Xi does not downplay a realistic appraisal
of problems, including social imbalances,
industrial overcapacities, financial system
risks, endemic pollution. “Achieving nation-
al rejuvenation will be no walk in the park,”

ZHAI HAIJUN / FOR CHINA DAILY

have worked together, in various combina-
tions, for years. With much now being writ-
ten about each member, I’ll just offer some
personal reflections.

First, of course, is Xi Jinping, general sec-
retary of the CPC Central Committee, whose
prior experience included governor of Fuji-
an province and Party secretary of Zhejiang
province and Shanghai.

In 2005, I was advised to study the “Zheji-
ang model” which promotes entrepreneur-
ship to generate economic development. I
met Xi, who was then Zhejiang provincial
Party secretary, and he recommended that I
study China both “horizontally” across
diverse regions and “vertically” through the
history of its development.

“To understand our dedication to revitalize
‘the country, one has to appreciate the pride
that Chinese people take in our glorious
ancient civilization,’ Xi said. “This is the histor-
ical driving force inspiring people today to
build the nation. The Chinese people made
great contributions to world civilization and
enjoyed long-term prosperity,’ he said. “Then
we suffered over a century of national weak-
ness, oppression and humiliation. So, we
have a deep self-motivation to build our
country. Our commitment and determina-
tion is rooted in our patriotism and pride.”

But he cautioned that pride in China’s
recent achievements should not engender
complacency.

Second, premier of the State Council, is
Li Keqiang, who was Party secretary of Hen-
an and Liaoning provinces. When I visited
Liin Liaoning, he explained the complex
challenges of revitalizing State-owned
enterprises while creating a fertile environ-
ment for private businesses. Li shared the
same experience of Xi as educated youths in
the countryside in the 1970s. The experience
gave them the chance to know better rural
China and the lives of rural people and thus
fostered their people-orientation.

The following members are new:

Li Zhanshu, who was governor of Hei-
longjiang province and Party secretary of
Guizhou province, has been director of the
general office of the CPC Central Committee
since 2012.

‘Wang Yang, vice-premier, is former Party
secretary of Chongqing municipality and
Guangdong province. At the height of the

global financial crisis in early 2009, he
argued it was imperative to restructure
Guangdong’s economy, so that it can move
up the ladder of industrialization and pro-
mote more knowledge-based, high-tech, low-
polluting businesses.

‘Wang Huning, secretariat, is director of
the Policy Research Office of the CPC Central
Committee. Wang is well known for provid-
ing intellectual vision and sophistication in
support of practical strategies and policies,
ranging from political philosophy to interna-
tional relations.

Zhao Leji, new chairman of the Central
Commission for Discipline Inspection, has
served as head of the CPC Organization
Department, and before that, as Party secre-
tary of Qinghai and Shaanxi provinces. In
addition to his responsibilities for Party and
government officials, Zhao provided strong
support for the poverty-alleviation mission.

Han Zheng is Party secretary of Shanghai.
Under his leadership, Shanghai has become
arecognized leader in trade, logistics and
finance.

What is the impact of all this on China’s
international relations?

There is no need to speculate. Xi himself,
in his report, openly and boldly tells all who
will listen. China, he says, “has become a
great power in the world” China's global
engagement is proactive, confident and
growing. Economics and trade drive China’s
power, exemplified by the much-needed Belt
and Road Initiative, but diplomacy, the soft
power of culture and media, and the hard
power of a blue-water navy projecting power,
are developing rapidly.

As Xi said, the new era sees “China moving
closer to center stage and making greater
contributions to mankind” The country is
now offering “Chinese wisdom” and “Chinese
solutions” to the international community —
the experiences and lessons of China’s
remarkable development, especially to devel-
oping countries.

Regarding Taiwan, which exemplifies Chi-
nese sovereignty, Xi painted a bright red line.
“We will resolutely uphold national sover-
eignty and territorial integrity and will never
tolerate a repeat of the historical tragedy of a
divided country;’ Xi emphasized. “We have
firm will, full confidence, and sufficient capa-
bility to defeat any form of Taiwan independ-
ence secession plot.”

China has asserted again that it is no
threat to any country. No matter how power-
ful China becomes, China’s leaders say it will
never seek hegemony or pursue expansion-
ism. Nonetheless, some foreigners remain.
suspicious, wary of China’s long-term ambi-
tions. Who knows future circumstances, they
worry? Who knows how China may change?
Although I fear self-fulfilling prophecy, I am
encouraged that China appreciates such sen-
sitivities and works to build confidence.

The 19th Party Congress, especially Xi’s
report, is an epic narrative of what China has
accomplished, what China has yet to achieve,
and what China envisages as necessary to be
a great nation. Xi, now, carries the authority;
he also bears the burden.

Setting that new target date of 2035 for
China to achieve basic modernization, Xi
sees China as standing at a new historic
starting point and socialism with Chinese
characteristics as exploring new horizons.
China has entered a new era and the road
ahead leads, apparently, to great nation sta-
tus by 2050.

The author is a public intellectual, interna-
tional corporate strategist, and China expert/
commentator. He is co-creator (with Adam
Zhu) and the host of China Global Television
Network's Closer to China with R.L.Kuhn.

CONTACT US

China Daily

15 Huixin Dongjie Chaoyang, Beijing 100029,
News: +86 (0) 10 6491-8366;
editor@chinadaily.com.cn
Subscription:A36 400-699-0203;
subscribe@chinadaily.com.cn
Advertisement:A36 (0) 10 6491-8631;
ads@chinadaily.com.cn

Phone app: chinadaily.com.cn/iphone
China Daily USA

1500 Broadway, Suite 2800, New
York, NY 10036 +1 212 537 8888
editor@chinadailyusa.com

China Daily Asia Pacific

China Daily Hong Kong

Room 1818, Hing Wai Centre 7 Tin Wan Praya Road
Aberdeen,

Hong Kong

+852 2518 5111
editor@chinadailyhk.com
editor@chinadailyasia.com

China Daily UK

90 Cannon Street London EC4N 6HA
+44 (0) 207 398 8270
editor@chinadailyuk.com

China Daily Africa

PO.Box 27281-00100, Nairobi, Kenya
+254 (0) 20 522 3498 (Nairobi)
editor@chinadailyafrica.com
enquiries@chinadailyafrica.com
subscription@chinadailyafrica.com

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023685
