having fun.

Date: Mon, Nov 23, 2015 at 11:53 AM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella

25 minutes needed. 1 new and vastly improved plan, needs your thoughtful input. decisions on legacy
paintings bronzes. books etc. 2. we need to reach fee agreement. and authorities.( alan and I spent time over
the weekend, ) , hundred documents to be drafted. 3. gagosiaon 4 revolver .5 inspire - FBI

. 6. Phaidon, solution. 7 plane. no need to reinvent the wheel. . ( rowen ).

Date: Tue, Nov 24, 2015 at 2:41 PM

Subject: Fwd: Loan
To: Melanie Spinel ii
Please talk to him

Date: Tuesday, 24 November 2015

Subject: Loan

To: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com>
Cc: Melanie Spinella

, Alan S. Halperin’ Ada Clapp
Joe Avantario
Jeffrey-given the high daily interest cost (50k+/-) on $$ borrowed which you pointed out yesterday, here's what
I'm thinking, but I want to be 100% on the same page as you:

1. Close next monday on the credit line, but don't borrow any $$. (We can, of course push closing back but my
preference wld be to close.)

2. Right now, at barry's request, Irene Steiner, on behalf of the trustees is reviewing apol and apo-ol. While
probably not impt on a substantive basis it was (a) impt to barry and (b) is likely good for leon.

3. We are hoping to have signature pages to the trustees (and returned to us) by early to mid next week. (Ada
will oversee.)

4. We will then get the new trust to bofa who, moving quickly (according to them), will have an acct open the
following week, 12/7-9.

5. We need to manage execution of paperwork associated with decanting which I assume occurs once apo-ol
and bank acct are operative. (Ada I'm sure you'll be on top of this).

6. assume we will move $$ to pay down loan the day or day after (?) apo-01 bank acct open. As you know we
cld do this as early as next monday/tuesday but then cash will be sitting in apo-1 while we're waiting for apo-01
bank acct.

7. If there are sales of assets (or Ilc's) from leon to apol or apo-01 that needs to be buttoned down and
organized asap.

8. Same if you want another NEW trust in the mix as that will involve paperwork and opening an acct with
bank.

Let's discuss to make sure we're on the same page on process. B

Sent from my Verizon Wireless BlackBerry

Date: Mon, Nov 30, 2015 at 5:21 PM

Subject: agenda

To: Melanie Spinella

1 fees, amount and to what entities when and responsiblitis. 2. gagosian idea to save a minimum of 10
mill and maybe more. 3. ican walk you through carlyns screw up, 50 % would have made little difference
and maybe made it worse. 4. we should have an all hands meeting with your family to talk about art
distribution on death. . 5. phaidon, decantings ( already firmly in progress ) loans. (alan ) pent. ( with
follow up ) all part of same elegant transaction, 6 asymetric risk worth at least 50- 60 no matter how you
calculate. Ican explain. 7 lets get the money issue out of the way once and for all. I have my team set to
start.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023295
