J. CRAIG VENTER

J. Craig Venter, Ph.D., is regarded as one of the leading

scientists of the 21st century for his numerous invaluable
contributions to genomic research. He is Founder, Chairman,
and President of the J. Craig Venter Institute (CVD, a not-
for-profit, research organization with approximately 300
scientists and staff dedicated to human, microbial, plant,
synthetic and environmental genomic research, and the
exploration of social and ethical issues in genomics.

Dr. Venter is also Founder and CEO of Synthetic
Genomics Inc (SGI), a privately held company dedicated
to commercializing genomic-driven solutions to address
global needs such as new sources of energy, new food and
nutritional products, and next generation vaccines.

Dr. Venter began his formal education after a tour
of duty as a Navy Corpsman in Vietnam from 1967 to 1968.
After earning both a Bachelor’s degree in Biochemistry and a
Ph.D. in Physiology and Pharmacology from the University of
California at San Diego, he was appointed professor at the State
University of New York at Buffalo and the Roswell Park Cancer
Institute. In 1984, he moved to the National Institutes of
Health campus where he developed Expressed Sequence Tags
or ESTs, a revolutionary new strategy for rapid gene discovery.
In 1992 Dr. Venter founded The Institute for Genomic
Research (TIGR, now part of JCVI), a not-for-profit research
institute, where in 1995 he and his team decoded the genome
of the first free-living organism, the bacterium Haemophilus

influenzae, using his new whole genome shotgun technique.

In 1998, Dr. Venter founded Celera Genomics
to sequence the human genome using new tools and
techniques he and his team developed. This research
culminated with the February 2001 publication of the human
genome in the journal, Science. He and his team at Celera
also sequenced the fruit fly, mouse and rat genomes.

Dr. Venter and his team at JCVI continue to blaze
new trails in genomics. They have sequenced and analyzed
hundreds of genomes, and have published numerous
important papers covering such areas as environmental
genomics, the first complete diploid human genome, and the
groundbreaking advance in creating the first self-replicating
bacterial cell constructed entirely with synthetic DNA.

Dr. Venter is one of the most frequently cited
scientists, and the author of more than 250 research articles.
He is also the recipient of numerous honorary degrees,
public honors, and scientific awards, including the 2008
United States National Medal of Science, the 2002 Gairdner
Foundation International Award, the 2001 Paul Ehrlich and
Ludwig Darmstaedter Prize and the King Faisal International
Award for Science. Dr. Venter is a member of numerous
prestigious scientific organizations including the National
Academy of Sciences, the American Academy of Arts and
Sciences, and the American Society for Microbiology.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017559
