explain different outcomes in the two
groups. For example, people who
volunteer to be in the experimental arm
of a study may be more gregarious by
nature and may be more likely to
become less lonely over time regardless
of exposure to the intervention. Results
of the meta-analysis suggested the
interventions might be effective, but to
know it’s the intervention and not an
artifact of subject selection, we need to
look at the effect of these interventions
when assessed using randomized group
comparison designs in which
participants are randomly assigned to the
experimental or control group.

Twenty-two studies utilized such
a design. Quantitative analysis revealed
that, on average, the interventions had a
small but significant effect in reducing
loneliness. Moreover, efficacy in
reducing loneliness did not differ
significantly as a function of
intervention strategy nor as a function of
individual- versus group-based
implementation. Whereas once a
consensus existed that social skills
training and/or group activities could
reduce loneliness, we found insufficient
evidence to support that conclusion.

Why have successful
interventions to reduce loneliness been
so elusive? There are several possible
reasons. Some of the interventions have
been designed with the notion that if
only lonely individuals had better social
skills they would be able to form
satisfying connections with others.
However, recent research suggests that
at least for most adults, the social skills
they know are not related to the
loneliness they feel. Other interventions
have been developed with the notion that
lonely individuals simply need to
interact more with others, so the
interventions are designed to increase

134

Page

contact with others. However, people
not only tend to like lonely individuals
less than nonlonely individuals, lonely
individuals are especially negative
toward other lonely individuals.
Therefore, bringing lonely individuals
together is unlikely to result in warm,
satisfying social connections. Finally,
some interventions were designed with
the notion that what lonely individuals
need is social support, such as someone
who is available to provide help when
needed. However, loneliness affects not
only how people think, but how people
think about others: loneliness
diminishes people’s executive
functioning and biases them to see others
as threatening and rejecting even when
they are not (5).

Cacioppo and Patrick (5)
proposed a framework for reducing
loneliness which includes four elements.
First, unconscious barriers that
chronically lonely people develop to
shield against being hurt by others tend
to reduce their likelihood of having
positive social interactions, and they
may benefit, therefore, from
encouragement and practice in forming
social connections gradually in “safe”
environments where threat of rejection is
minimal. For instance, because
chronically lonely people are self-
focused in their hypervigilance for social
threat, they may benefit from learning to
shift their attention from themselves to
others through other-oriented activities
such as volunteerism. The notion is to
intervene to diminish or eliminate the
negative effects loneliness can have on
social perception and cognition. Second,
we tend to think of loneliness as the
same thing as a personal weakness, as
being a social isolate, being depressed,
or being weak. As noted above, we now
know these accounts to be incorrect, and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021380
