94 4 Brief Survey of Cognitive Architectures

after Danish psychologist Jens Rasmussen). The Rasmussen ladder describes the organization
of action as a movement between the stages of skill-based behavior, rule-based behavior and
knowledge-based behavior, as follows:

e If a given task amounts to a trained routine, an automatism or skill is activated; it can
usually be executed without conscious attention and deliberative control.

e If there is no automatism available, a course of action might be derived from rules; before a
known set of strategies can be applied, the situation has to be analyzed and the strategies
have to be adapted.

e In those cases where the known strategies are not applicable, a way of combining the
available manipulations (operators) into reaching a given goal has to be explored at first.
This stage usually requires a recomposition of behaviors, that is, a planning process.

The planning algorithm used in the Psi and MicroPsi implementations is a fairly simple
hill-climbing planner. While it’s hypothesized that a more complex planner may be needed for
advanced intelligence, part of the Psi theory is the hypothesis that most real-life planning an
organism needs to do is fairly simple, once the organism has the right perceptual representations
and goals.

4.5.13 Psi versus CogPrime

On a high level, the similarities between Psi and CogPrime are quite strong:

e interlinked declarative, procedural and intentional knowledge structures, represented using
neural-symbolic methods (though, the knowledge structures have somewhat different high-
level structures and low-level representational mechanisms in the two systems)

@ perception via prediction and perception/action integration

e action selection via triplets that resemble uncertain, potentially partial production rules

e similar motivation/emotion framework, since CogPrime incorporates a variant of Psi for
this

On the nitty-gritty level there are many differences between the systems, but on the big-
picture level the main difference lies in the way the cognitive synergy principle is pursued in
the two different approaches. Psi and MicroPsi rely on very simple learning algorithms that are
closely tied to the “quad” neurosymbolic knowledge representation, and hence interoperate in
a fairly natural way without need for subtle methods of “synergy engineering.” CogPrime uses
much more diverse and sophisticated learning algorithms which thus require more sophisticated
methods of interoperation in order to achieve cognitive synergy.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013010
