As Virginia Roberts’ astonishing claims have made headlines around the world, it was reported last week
that President Clinton's continuing friendship with Maxwell has caused a rift between him and his wife,

potential Presidential candidate Hillary Clinton.

However, the pair were pictured looking cosy together as they left the funeral of former New York

Governor Mario Cuomo.

Epstein and Maxwell met shortly after she moved to New York in the 1990s following the death of her

father, shamed newspaper tycoon Robert Maxwell.
And they remained just as close even after an initial romance faded.

For Epstein, Maxwell was a useful conduit to some of the most powerful people in the world, from

PresidentClinton to Prince Andrew.

Close: Not only was Ghislaine Maxwell friends with Prince Andrew, but his ex-wife Sarah
Ferguson as well. The pair are pictured together at the opening of the Asprey Flagship
Store on 5th Avenue on December 8, 2003, in New York City

Allegations: Ghislaine Maxwell is accused of ‘facilitating Prince Andrew's acts of sexual
abuse by acting as a madame for Epstein’. Above, Miss Maxwell looks on as Prince Andrew

smiles with Virginia Roberts in 2001

While Maxwell became used to the luxuries that Epstein could afford her, trips by private jet and his very

own Caribbean island.

Rarely photographed or seen out in public unlike his friend Maxwell, Esptein was however pictured with
the brunette as they partied the night away on March 15, 2005, at a Manhattan charity event featuring
singer Rod Stewart.

But as they socialized with the cream of Manhattan society, including CBS President Les Moonves, his wife
Julie Chen, Sean Lennon and Padma Lakshmi, at the Wall Street Rising event, Epstein, now 63, and

Maxwell, would have been entirely unaware of a police probe that was launched that very day.

In May 2006, a 'probable cause affidavit' revealed that Epstein was the subject of an 11-month undercover
investigation by police after a complaint in 2005 from the stepmother of a 14-year-old girl, who claimed

she was paid $300 to give him an erotic massage at his flamingo-pink villa in Palm Beach.

Close: Ghislaine Maxwell with Jeffrey Epstein (left) at The Queen's residence of
HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019471
