128 Teaching Minds

Subject- based education makes the academic disciplines the center
of what needs to be learned, when there is really something else at
the base of learning. All human learning and all scientific inquiry is
about causation; attempts to determine what causes what, and why,
are what it means to be a scientist or an academic. Theories of cau-
sation, and tests to see whether those theories are true, are what it
means to be a scientist.

The problem is that telling students that causation is part of sci-
ence makes them think about physics formulas and fact memorization
when the real issue in teaching causation is how to determine what
causes what, rather than how to memorize what causes what. There
are, of course, facts about causation that are worth knowing. It is nice
to know that if you let go of something, it may fall, but it is not neces-
sary to know that gravity is the issue in this. The world went on quite
well for millions of years before Newton. People certainly understood
before Newton that things would fall when you let go of them and
nothing else was supporting them. Scientific explanations of causa-
tion are nice for scientists but not necessary for everyday humans.
What everyday people need to know is how to determine what causes
what in areas of their own interest. They can hear you tell them about
causation—the stock market always goes down when a Democrat is
elected president—but they need to be able to decide whether what
you said is true and whether it is the election that causes the decline
or something else.

Understanding about causation is much more a function of being
able to figure out what caused what in any given instance than it is the
memorization of facts about science. Of course, with known cases, as
we have seen, being able to extrapolate from one case to another is a
good way of determining what is likely to happen. There is no harm in
knowing prior cases and great value in being able to use them. But, as
always, cases are better learned from one’s own experience than from
being told about them.

Teaching causation, therefore, means teaching the process of de-
termining what happened in any given situation. Since there is a
great deal to learn about any domain of inquiry in order to deter-
mine causation, the main issue is how to know what the facts are
and how to reason from them. This means that, yet again, it is the
domain of knowledge that needs to be learned, and this entails con-
stant practice in that domain. And, the methodology of determining

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023874
