up under a pile of mail. She hadn’t seen it until a week afterwards. She said that
of course she would have come with me. She felt angry with herself, and with
me too, for not simply having phoned. But since I didn’t contact her in the
weeks that followed, she figured this was just another one of our times apart. Or
“stupid pride”. A few months later, I heard she was engaged to be married, to a
young man she’d known since their high school days at the Alliance.

I had first met Nava Cohen, the woman I would go on to marry, the previous
year. It was through another Cohen, though they were not related: Nechemia,
my sayeret friend who was killed in the 1967 war. He invited me to Tel Aviv
for a party in the spring, on the Jewish holiday of Purim, and introduced us.
Nava was just nineteen, five years younger than me. I was struck not just by the
fact she was attractive, but by her poise, warm-heartedness, and her obvious
intelligence. But she had her boyfriend with her, and I still saw myself and Nili
as life partners. Now, she was beginning her studies at Hebrew University as
well, and, in a way, it was again Nechemia

Cohen who brought us together. Since his death, those of us who knew him
from the sayeret had been looking for a fitting way to remember and to honor
him. We finally decided to set up a living memorial in his name: a Moadon
Sayarim, a center to train young people from all over Jerusalem in scouting and
navigation. We spent six months getting it up and running, and Nava pitched in
with the work.

It wasn’t until a few months after I heard of Nili’s engagement that I finally
asked her on a date. We were in the university library, which had a space where
you could listen to tapes through headphones. I would go to hear classical
music. Nava was studying English literature, and I’d sometimes see her there,
engrossed in recordings of Shakespeare with the text of Hamlet or Macbeth in
front of her. Since I wasn’t shackled by the need to follow the alacks and
alasses, I read the newspaper as the music washed over me. I turned to the
movie section. I circled three films, drew a question mark in the margin and
passed it to her. She looked puzzled for a second. Then she smiled and put a
checkmark next to one of them.

While we came from different backgrounds, the gap was narrower than it
had been with Nili. Her parental home was in Tiberias. Her parents were from
old Sephardi families, with a centuries-long history in Palestine, and were also
solid Ben-Gurion Labor supporters. Her father had fought in the British army in
the Second World War. He now ran the branch of Bank Leumi in Tiberias. Her
mother ran a shop in what was then the city’s best hotel, the Ginton.

103
HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_027951
