Page 1

@ LexisNexis’

3 of 3 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2009 ProQuest Information and Learning
All Rights Reserved
ProQuest SuperText
Copyright 2009 Palm Beach Post
Palm Beach Daily News

June 11, 2009 Thursday
Final Edition

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A.1

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: EPSTEIN PLEA DEAL TO REMAIN SEALED FOR NOW
BYLINE: DAVID ROGERS, DAVID ROGERS, Daily News Staff Writer

BODY:

The plea deal that part-time Palm Beacher Jeffrey Epstein agreed to several months ago to avoid federal charges
will remain sealed for the time being.

Lawyers for The Palm Beach Post and a woman who claimed Epstein solicited and procured her for sex at his El
Brillo Way home while she was underage asked Palm Beach County Circuit Judge Jeffrey Colbath Wednesday morning
to unseal the plea documents immediately.

Instead, Colbath decided to leave the documents sealed and give Jack Goldberger, the attorney representing Ep-
stein, until 1 p.m. Friday to file papers showing why the records should remain out of public view.

Colbath agreed to let the Post and E.W. have standing in the case and set a hearing on whether the documents
should be unsealed for 1:30 p.m. June 25.

Epstein agreed in September 2007 to plead to state charges to avoid federal prosecution, Goldberger told County
Judge Deborah Pucillo at Epstein's plea conference last year.

The sealing of the records in question was said to be a significant inducement for Epstein, who is serving 18
months in the Palm Beach County Stockade -- with daytime release -- and is facing several civil lawsuits in state and
federal courts by more than a dozen alleged victims.

Colbath said, I don't see where any of the proper procedures to seal the documents were ever followed ... but that
he would give Epstein's legal team the ability to jump through the hoops to seal the documents if they are entitled in
fact to be sealed.”

The sealing of court documents in Florida is unusual and lawyers typically have to prove a significant reason for it,
such as protecting trade secrets or a compelling government interest.

Goldberger said after the hearing there is no rush to unseal the plea deal.

I think the records clearly need to be sealed and continue to be sealed but I think the ruling by Judge Colbath was a
very well- reasoned practical decision, Goldberger said. He is not getting special treatment.

Brad Edwards, of the law firm of Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler of Fort Lauderdale, said the plea deal should be a
public record. His firm represents the woman, now 20, who was identified only as E.W.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013428
