the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to market or sell interests in the Fund within the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. This
Memorandum does not constitute and may not be used for the purpose of an offer or invitation. No services relating
to interests in the Fund, including the receipt of applications and the allotment or redemption of such interests, may
be rendered by the Fund within the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.

SOUTH AFRICA

Neither this Memorandum nor the interests in the Fund have been approved, disapproved or passed on in any way
by the Financial Services Board or any other governmental authority in South Africa, nor has the Fund received
authorization or licensing from the Financial Services Board or any other governmental authority in South Africa to
market or sell interests in the Fund within South Africa. This Memorandum is strictly confidential and may not be
reproduced, used for any other purpose or provided to any person other than the intended recipient.

SOUTH KOREA

In South Korea, interests in the Fund are being offered only to persons prescribed by Article 301, Paragraph 2 of the
Enforcement Decree of the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act (“Qualified Professional
Investors”). The Subscriber hereby represents and warrants to the Fund that the Subscriber (i) is a Qualified
Professional Investor as prescribed by the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act and (ii) is fully
aware of the meaning, effect and ramifications of being an Qualified Professional Investor and fully agrees to be
treated in accordance therewith.

SPAIN

Interests in the Fund may not be offered or sold in Spain except in accordance with the requirements of the Spanish
Securities Market Act (Ley 24/1988, de 28 de Julio, del Mercado de Valores) as amended and restated, Royal Decree
1310/2005, on securities admission to trade on secondary official markets, public offerings or subscriptions, and
prospectus required to such effects, and/or subject and in compliance with the requirements contained in such
regulations (Real Decreto 1310/2005, de 4 de noviembre, por el que se desarrolla parcialmente la Ley 24/1988, de 28
de julio, del Mercado de Valores, en materia de admisién a negociacién de valores en mercados secundarios oficiales,
de ofertas ptblicas de venta o suscripcién y del folleto exigible a tales efectos), and subsequent legislation. This
Memorandum is neither verified nor registered with the Comisién Nacional del Mercado de Valores, and therefore a
public offer of interests in the Fund will not be carried out in Spain.

SWEDEN

This Memorandum has not been nor will it be registered with or approved by Finansinspektionen (the Swedish
Financial Supervisory Authority). Accordingly, this Memorandum may not be made available, nor may the interests
in the Fund offered hereunder be marketed and offered for sale in Sweden, other than under circumstances which are
deemed not to require a prospectus under the Swedish Financial Instruments Trading Act (1991:980) (Sw. lag
(1991:980) om handel med finansiella instrument). Accordingly, the offering of interests in the Fund will only be
directed to persons in Sweden who subscribe to interests in the Fund for a total consideration of at least €100,000 per
investor.

SWITZERLAND

Under the Collective Investment Schemes Act dated June 23, 2006 and revised on September 28, 2012 (the “CISA”),
the offering, sale and distribution to non-qualified investors of units in foreign collective investment schemes in or
from Switzerland are subject to authorization by the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority (“FINMA”) and,
in addition, the distribution to certain qualified investors of interests in such collective investment schemes may be
subject to the appointment of a representative and a paying agent in Switzerland. The concept of “foreign collective
investment scheme” covers, inter alia, foreign companies and similar schemes (including those created on the basis of
a collective investment contract or a contract of another type with similar effect) created for the purpose of collective
investment, whether such companies or schemes are closed end or open end. There are reasonable grounds to believe
that the Fund would be characterized as a foreign collective investment scheme under Swiss law. As interests in the
Fund have not been and cannot be registered with or authorized by FINMA for distribution to non-qualified
investors, any offering of interests in the Fund, and any other form of solicitation of investors in relation to the Fund
(including by way of circulation of offering materials or information, including this Memorandum), must be
restricted to investors considered as qualified investors within the meaning of the CISA and its implementing
regulations. Failure to comply with the above-mentioned requirements may constitute a breach of the CISA.

104 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024115
