outside. Two hundred swells become party prisoners and resign to just
having an absolute ball till 5:@@am. Once again, this is the most star
studded party in town.

Saturday, February 26°, 2011

The sun comes up and dries up all the land. IAC chairmen and owner of
The Newsweek/Daily Beast Barry Diller and his designer wife Diane Von
Furstenberg host their annual lunch for Graydon Carter in their
Coldwater Canyon home. Barry introduces me to his star guest, Governor
Jerry Brown, just elected to his third (nonconsecutive) term as
California Governor. Diane’s children, Alex and Tatiana, along with
their children comprise three generations of guests, which makes this
party so special.

Like last year, enormous clear plastic tents are erected on the hill
near the house. Long wooden picnic tables covered with yellow flowers
sit on oriental rugs, covering the soggy ground. Terrines of hot soup,
platters of sausages, fried chicken and salads are beautifully arranged
on an endless buffet. Everyone wears winter clothes; comfy sweaters and
sensible shoes. I arrive in a fur coat.

Barry and Diane’s loyal friends have been coming to this party for over
fifteen years. Everybody knows everybody and it doesn’t matter if you
have a hit film or TV show this season. Oprah Winfrey kisses David
Geffen, casually chats with former Disney CEO Michael Eisner and current
Sony chief Sir Howard Stringer. Brett Ratner arrives with his house
guest Jean Pigozzi who is allowed to photograph everyone. Graydon greets
people with wife Anna and Fran Lebowitz by his side.

Ingrid Sischy and Sandy Brant, Rupert Murdoch, Ron Meyer, Bryan Lourd
Francesco Clemente with his twin boys and Tom Ford chat each other up.
People watching include the pregnant Victoria and David Beckham with
Lynn Wyatt, Liv Tyler, Vincent Gallo, Eva Longoria, Larry Gagosian and
Shala Monroque, Ben Silverman, Debbie and Allen Grubman, Tobias Meyer
and Mark Fletcher and Stephen Gaghan and Mini Mortimer wearing her
oversized cat glasses.

Bruce Cohen has invited me to the Oscar broadcast rehearsal. This is a
special honor. There are metal barricades leading up to the credentials
trailer. High-tech security includes photos and computer background
checks. The only thing they don’t do is pat me down and ask for
fingerprints. Once inside the Kodak Theater’s massive auditorium, I find
a seat next to Bruce’s proud parents. I watch Josh Brolin and Javier
Bardem come out in white dinner jackets and flub their lines as they
pretend to present Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Original Screenplay.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012695
