PIF largely a domestic inward-looking entity until recently

The IMF reports that the PIF had assets of 11.1% of GDP in 2014 (c.SAR310bn). PIF has
foreign assets of SAR14.1bn as of end-2015. It has outstanding loans of SAR103.9bn as
of 3Q15 (excluding electricity loans of SAR14bn that PIF administers). According to
Bloomberg, PIF had stakes in publicly listed companies on Tadawul worth SAR934bn as
of April 2016. According to the MoF, PIF held equity worth SAR63.3bn in 41 Saudi
companies in total at end-2011, as well as stakes worth SAR14.9bn in a number of pan-
Arab corporations.

In July 2014, the cabinet authorized the PIF to establish companies inside and outside
Saudi Arabia, alone or in partnership with other institutions from the public or private
sectors. It also bought a USS1.1bn stake in a South Korean company and recently
announced in early June it took a US$3.5bn stake in Uber, denying in the process that it
was considering a USS$3bn loan to fund the acquisition. PIF has been asked to co-invest
US$10bn in Russia or the Middle East with the RIDF. Note that PIF has established
Sanabil investments with SAR2Obn in capital. The PIF has paid dividends to the budget
last year (SAR15bn). It now reports directly to the Council of Economic and
Development Affairs headed by the Deputy Crown Prince, after reporting to the Ministry
of Finance in the past.

JASTA bill not a hurdle for further Saudi investment in the US

We expect that the deep and liquid US financial markets will remain a prominent
destination for Saudi foreign asset holdings. The potential passage of the “9/11” bill
(Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act, JASTA) in US Congress raises the possibility
that Saudi Arabia would choose to liquidate up to US$750bn in assets in the US,
according to Saudi Foreign Minister Adel al-Jubeir. A forced and rapid liquidation of US-
based Saudi foreign assets may expose SAMA and other government entities to mark-
to-market losses, and require changes to Fx reserve management

The language of the JASTA bill as it currently stands does not suggest an imminent
Saudi sell-off of US assets, in our view. The “Stay of Actions Pending State
Negotiations” section inserted into the bill allows a stay to be granted for an indefinitely
renewable 180-day period. This would be subject to court petition by the Attorney
General and repeated certification by the Secretary of State that the US is “engaged in
good faith discussions with the foreign state defendant concerning the resolution of the
claims against the foreign state”. The certification thus depends on the current and
future US administration foreign policy inclinations, in our view. Separately, we note
that the White House spokesman said US President Obama did not support the
legislation and likely would not sign it. (A potential presidential veto may however still
be overruled if Congress assembles the necessary two-thirds vote of each house). We
continue to expect a close relationship between the US and Saudi Arabia given the
confluence of interests in a broad range of matters.

8 GEMs Paper #26 | 30 June 2016 3S Merrill Lynch

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016118
