Jeffrey Safchik, Chief Financial Officer

Jeffrey Safchik is the Chief Financial Officer of KUE. Mr. Safchik is also Managing Director and Chief
Financial Officer of Greenstreet Real Estate Partners and also is one of its founders. He serves in a
similar capacity for all the Greenstreet financial companies. Mr. Safchik is also Chief Operating Officer
and Chief Financial Officer of k1Ventures, a publicly traded Singapore-based investment company.
Previously, Mr. Safchik was CFO of a real-estate company that managed more than 11 million square feet
of retail and commercial property across the U.S. He has served as CFO for a billion-dollar retailer,
where he managed the company's financial affairs and was directly involved in its restructuring and
strategic planning. Mr. Safchik graduated from Pace University in New York, received his master's
degree in taxation from St. John’s University, and has attended advanced finance and real estate courses
at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and New York University. He serves as a Trustee for the
Green Family Foundation, is Chairman of the University of Miami Department of Pediatrics Children’s
Council and is active in a number of charities including the Marian Center for Under-privileged Children
and the United Way.

Richard Sandler, General Counsel

Richard Sandler is General Counsel for KUE. Mr. Sandler is also Executive Vice President of the Milken
Family Foundation and has been involved with the Foundation since its inception. A shareholder in the
law firm of Maron & Sandler, he has practiced law since 1973, and specializes in real estate transactions
and general securities and business law. He has aiso been involved since 1983 in consulting with
respect to business acquisitions. Mr. Sandler is a member of the State Bar of California and has served
on various boards of educational and philanthropic institutions, including the Executive Board of Heal
L.A., as a Trustee of Brentwood Schcol, and on the Board of the Foundations of the Milken Families. Mr.
Sandler received a bachelor’s degree from the University of California, Berkeley, and his juris doctorate
degree from the UCLA School of Law.

Adam Cohn, Senior Vice President, Business Development

Adam Cohn is Senior Vice President of Business Development at KUE where he is responsible for
investments, financings and business development for Knowledge Universe and its portfolio companies.
Mr. Cohn has been at KUE, or related entities, since March of 2000. He has overseen the acquisitions
and related financings of KinderCare Learning Centers Inc. and Aramark Educational Resources by
Knowledge Learning Corporation. Previously, Mr. Cohn was with Whitney & Co., a leading private equity
firm. Prior to Whitney & Co., Mr. Cohn was an investment banker in the Financial Sponsors Group at
Bankers Trust Company and Deutsche Bank. Mr. Cohn serves on several private and public company
board of directors. Mr. Gohn has a BS in Business from Skidmore College and a MBA from Columbia
University.

Geoffrey Moore, Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications

Geoffrey Moore is Senior Vice President of Communications at KUE. He has also provided
communications counsel to FasterCures, the Milken Institute, the Prostate Cancer Foundation and related
organizations for several years. Prior to joining Knowledge Universe in 1998, Mr. Moore was Senior Vice
President of Strategic Communications for Dow Jones Markets, a unit of Dow Jones, publisher of The
Wall Street Journal. We served for 22 years in a wide range of communications management and
speechwriting positions for IBM in the U.S. and Japan. Earlier, he was an Assistant to New York
Governor Nelson Rockefeller, Press Secretary to U.S. Senate Minority Leader Hugh Scott, and Director of
Public Information for the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. His opinion articles have
been published in The New York Times and other major publications. He graduated with a degree in
political science from the University of Pennsylvania and studied law and public policy at that university's
law school.

Michael Neumann, Vice President, Business Development

Michael Neumann ts a Vice President of Business Development at KUE, where he works on investments,
financings and business development for Knowledge Universe and its portfolio companies. Mr. Neumann
has been at KUE, or related entities, since 2002. He has worked on the acquisitions and related
financings of KinderCare Learning Centers Inc. and Aramark Educational Resources by Knowledge

150

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024583
