4 BAT scenarios

To us, the key question is not when tax reform will pass (likely sooner than what is
priced in). Far more important for financial markets in our view, especially for the rates
and FX markets, is what tax reform means for inflation. The recent divergence between
inflation breakevens and real yields reflects to a large part to the increasing consensus
that tax reform will be stagflationary.

We are less sure this will be the case and this is why. In our view, there are four possible
paths in terms of how the border adjustment tax proposal could play out:

e Scenario 1: This is the baseline of the Republican architects of the proposal
who see a 25% appreciation of the USD to offset the 20% new tax on imports.
In this scenario, because of the USD appreciation the inflationary impact of the
border adjustment tax will be limited. In fact, it is very likely in this scenario
that the second round effects of the USD appreciation (for example on
commodity prices and emerging markets) will stoke deflationary fears.

e Scenario 2: In this scenario, we would get the BAT as proposed but the USD
does not go up because the new administration sees a strong USD as
incompatible with its trade policy. We suspect this scenario has become the
baseline for the market. We disagree this is the most probable outcome. In our
view, it would be difficult if not impossible for Republican leadership to push
through tax changes that would lead to potentially very unpopular price hikes
ahead of the mid-term elections next year.

e Scenario 3: In this scenario the BAT would not make it into the tax reform and
the proposed corporate tax cut is financed by running up the fiscal deficit. This
could be easier to sell politically than Scenario 2, especially given that the
Republicans plan to deliver personal income tax cuts at the same time. In this
scenario, the USD will rally as the Fed continues to hike and rate differential
drives the USD higher.

Chart 6: The four different fates of the border adjustment tax proposal

Scenario 1: Ryan-Brady proposal Medium probability:
+25% USD increase = Little increase USD{ 17, BEL |

in inflatian

Scenario 2: Ryan-Brady proposal + Low probability:

little USD increase = Big increase in —_— USDt |, BET Tt

Inflatinn

BAT

Scenario 3: No BAT + bigger fiscal Medium probability:
deficit = Little increase in inflation | USD?, BE|

Scenario 4: VAT instead of BAT = Medium probability:

41\\

Smaller increase in inflation > USD* 1, BET |

Source: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research

BankofAmerica <2”

6 Cause and Effect | 13 February 2017 Merrill Lynch

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014726
