Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, did not ask him to step down
from the board, and reports that he wants to leave the board are incorrect, Mr.
Thiel said, noting that among other things that he brings “ideological diversity.” He
declined to say exactly how much or what kind of advice the Facebook board was
offering Mr. Zuckerberg, but defended the company from criticism that it was slow
to wake up to what the Russians did.

“Remember when Trump said the election was going to be rigged? People said
that was crazy — ‘How dare you question the integrity of the electoral process?’
That was the view of most of the people working at Facebook, too,” he said. “They
did not think things were so hackable. It was a mistake, but an understandable
mistake.” Facebook declined to comment.

The anger now being turned on Facebook, Mr. Thiel argued, is less about
Russia specifically and more about tech arrogance — its failure to do so much for
so many. It is a sentiment that helped put Mr. Trump in the White House.

“The Trump campaign slogan, ‘Make America Great Again,’ was perhaps the
single most offensive thing you could say to Silicon Valley,” he said. “Silicon Valley
says the future is going to be better than the past. That is the propaganda, if you
will.”

A friend of his in Silicon Valley had the idea of running for governor of
California this year. Mr. Thiel’s advice was that he had better have a good answer
to this question: Why is tech good for the average person in California? The
answer, he cautioned, couldn’t be a banality, such as “it’s making us more
connected,” and it couldn’t be utopian, such as “it’s going to cure all diseases.”

“He wasn’t able to come up with an answer, and I couldn’t come up with one,
either,” Mr. Thiel said. He declined to identify the friend, but it is well known in
tech circles that Sam Altman, the president of Y Combinator, the prominent start-
up accelerator, was thinking about running. Mr. Altman confirmed it was him and
said he had decided not to run “for many reasons.”

There is a big painting of a cresting wave in Mr. Thiel’s living room, and it
might as well be a visual metaphor for what is going on in big tech now.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029455
