into a national joke, which he seemed destined to never recover from. To boot, the
president blamed Spicer for not making the million phantom souls seem real.

It was the first presidential instance of what the campaign regulars had learned over
many months: on the most basic level, Trump just did not, as Spicer later put it, give a
fuck. You could tell him whatever you wanted, but he knew what he knew, and if what
you said contradicted what he knew, he simply didn’t believe you.

The next day Kellyanne Conway, her aggressive posture during the campaign turning
more and more to petulance and self-pity, asserted the new president’s right to claim
“alternative facts.” As it happened, Conway meant to say “alternative information,” which
at least would imply there might be additional data. But as uttered, it certainly sounded
like the new administration was claiming the right to recast reality. Which, in a sense, it
was. Although, in Conway’s view, it was the media doing the recasting, making a
mountain (hence “fake news”) out of a molehill (an honest minor exaggeration, albeit of
vast proportions).

Anyway, the frequently asked question about whether Trump would continue his
unsupervised and often inexplicable tweets now that he was officially in the White House
and the president of the United States—a question as hotly asked inside the White House
as out—was answered: he would.

This was his fundamental innovation in governing: regular, uncontrolled bursts of
anger and spleen.

7 OK Ok

The president’s immediate official business, however, was to make nice with the CIA.

On Saturday, January 21, in an event organized by Kushner, the president, in his first
presidential act, paid a call on Langley to, in Bannon’s hopeful description, “play some
politics.” In carefully prepared remarks in his first act as president, he would lay some of
the famous Trump flattery on the CIA and the rest of the sprawling, and leaking, U.S.
intelligence world.

Not taking off his dark overcoat, lending him quite a hulking gangster look, pacing in
front of the CIA’s wall of stars for its fallen agents, in front of a crowd of about three
hundred agency personnel and a group of White House staffers, and, suddenly, in a mood
of sleepless cockiness and pleasure at having a captive crowd, the new president,
disregarding his text, launched into what we could confidently call some of the most
peculiar remarks ever delivered by an American president.

“IT know a lot about West Point, ’'m a person who very strongly believes in academics.
Every time I say I had an uncle who was a great professor at MIT for 35 years, who did a
fantastic job in so many ways academically—he was an academic genius—and then they
say, Is Donald Trump an intellectual? Trust me, I’m like a smart person.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019920
