Critical mistakes in its infancy would never let me sell it. I could hire magic elves and connect my
brain to a supercomputer—it didn’t matter. My little baby had some serious birth defects. The question
then became, How do I free myself from this Frankenstein while making it self-sustaining? How do I pry
myself from the tentacles of workaholism and the fear that it would fall to pieces without my 15-hour
days? How do I escape this self-made prison? A trip, I decided. A sabbatical year around the world.

So I took the trip, right? Well, Pll get to that. First, I felt it prudent to dance around with my shame,
embarrassment, and anger for six months, all the while playing an endless loop of reasons why my cop-
out fantasy trip could never work. One of my more productive periods, for sure.

Then, one day, in my bliss of envisioning how bad my future suffering would be, I hit upon a gem of
an idea. It was surely a highlight of my “don’t happy, be worry” phase: Why don’t I decide exactly what
my nightmare would be—the worst thing that could possibly happen as a result of my trip?

Well, my business could fail while I’m overseas, for sure. Probably would. A legal warning letter
would accidentally not get forwarded and I would get sued. My business would be shut down, and
inventory would spoil on the shelves while I’m picking my toes in solitary misery on some cold shore in
Ireland. Crying in the rain, I imagine. My bank account would crater by 80% and certainly my car and
motorcycle in storage would be stolen. I suppose someone would probably spit on my head from a high-
rise balcony while I’m feeding food scraps to a stray dog, which would then spook and bite me squarely
on the face. God, life is a cruel, hard bitch.

Conquering Fear = Defining Fear

Set aside a certain number of days, during which you shall be content with the scantiest and
cheapest fare, with course and rough dress, saying to yourself the while: “Is this the condition
that I feared?”

— SENECA

Tren a funny thing happened. In my undying quest to make myself miserable, I accidentally began to

backpedal. As soon as I cut through the vague unease and ambiguous anxiety by defining my nightmare,
the worst-case scenario, I wasn’t as worried about taking a trip. Suddenly, I started thinking of simple
steps I could take to salvage my remaining resources and get back on track if all hell struck at once. I
could always take a temporary bartending job to pay the rent if I had to. I could sell some furniture and
cut back on eating out. I could steal lunch money from the kindergarteners who passed by my apartment
every morning. The options were many. I realized it wouldn’t be that hard to get back to where I was, let
alone survive. None of these things would be fatal—not even close. Mere panty pinches on the journey
of life.

I realized that on a scale of 1-10, 1 being nothing and 10 being permanently life-changing, my so-
called worst-case scenario might have a temporary impact of 3 or 4.I believe this is true of most people
and most would-be “holy sh*t, my life is over” disasters. Keep in mind that this is the one-in-a-million
disaster nightmare. On the other hand, if I realized my best-case scenario, or even a probable-case
scenario, it would easily have a permanent 9 or 10 positive life-changing effect.

In other words, I was risking an unlikely and temporary 3 or 4 for a probable and permanent 9 or 10,
and I could easily recover my baseline workaholic prison with a bit of extra work if I wanted to. This all
equated to a significant realization: There was practically no risk, only huge life-changing upside
potential, and I could resume my previous course without any more effort than I was already putting
forth.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013825
