How to Teach the Twelve Cognitive Processes 129

causation needs to be learned. This, too, can depend on the particu-
lar domain of inquiry. Reasoning from all this takes practice as well.
Determining cause is a critical cognitive process that underlies nearly
all thinking.

HOW TO TEACH JUDGMENT

How do we get good at making a judgment? Judgments are a kind of
prediction, of course. When a judge sentences a criminal, he is, in a
sense, making a prediction about what will happen in the rest of this
person’s life. But he also is making decision that is no way a predic-
tion, but simply serves as punishment. Similarly, when we decide that
a certain restaurant is our favorite, we are predicting something about
how much we will enjoy future experiences, but we also are making
a decision that may or may not matter to others, that is, a recom-
mendation. Recommendations are also predictions, but they have a
different feel. When a boss decides whom to promote, he is predicting
something about future behavior but, again, the prediction isn’t the
key point. A judgment is a decision that has some import.

Nevertheless, as different as judgments and predictions may or
may not be, the process of teaching them is identical. Good judg-
ment is learned by making judgments and analyzing the results or
truth of those judgments as more information becomes available. Af-
ter a judgment is made it too becomes one of one’s cases and stories.
Cases about judgment can be learned only by making simple judg-
ments and getting smarter about the process over time on the basis
of experience.

Judgments can be made in two ways that matter here. Either some-
one can decide to do one thing versus another thing based on ethical,
moral, avaricious, or emotional grounds, or for many other reasons.
Judgments aren’t so different from decisions in this aspect. Teaching
someone to make a judgment of this sort, between A and B, can be
done by putting students in situations in which such judgments need
to be made and then going over with them how they decided and
what they may have left out of their thinking.

A different kind of judgment is made when one judges the behav-
ior of others. Judges do this, of course, as do compliance officers in
companies, and teachers with respect to student mistakes.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023875
