29

Only once before have I been prevented from lecturing at universities
in a country. The other country was Apartheid South Africa.

Despite the faculties' refusals to invite me, I delivered three lectures
to packed auditoriums at the invitation of student groups. I received
sustained applause both before and after the talks.

It was then that I realized why all this happened. At all of the
Norwegian universities, there have been efforts to enact academic and
cultural boycotts of Jewish Israeli academics. This boycott is directed
against Israel's occupation of Palestinian land—but the occupation
that the boycott supporters have in mind is not of the West Bank but
rather of Israel itself. Here is the first line of their petition: Since
1948 the state of Israel has occupied Palestinian land. . .

The administrations of the universities have refused to go along with
this form of collective punishment of all Israeli academics, so the
formal demand for a boycott failed. But in practice it exists. Jewish
pro-Israel speakers are subject to a de facto boycott.

The first boycott signatory was Trond Adresen, a professor at
Trondheim. About Jews, he has written: There is something
immensely self-satisfied and self-centered at the tribal mentality that
is SO prevalent among Jews... . [They] as a whole, are characterized
by this mentality. .. . It is no less legitimate to say such a thing about
Jews in 2008-2009 than it was to make the same point about the
Germans around 1938.

This line of talk—directed at Jews, not Israel—is apparently
acceptable among many in Norway's elite. Consider former Prime
Minister Kare Willock's reaction to President Obama's selection of
Rahm Emanuel as his first chief of staff: It does not look too
promising, he has chosen a chief of staff who is Jewish. Mr. Willock
didn't know anything about Mr. Emanuel's views—he based his
criticism on the sole fact that Mr. Emanuel is a Jew. Perhaps
unsurprisingly, fewer than 1,000 Jews live in Norway today.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030058
