performance, weak fundraising, principal investment and balance sheet risk, expansion
risk, key person and talent risk, competition, a unique corporate structure that limits
shareholder control, and share lock-ups that could weigh on the stock.

Legg Mason (LM)

Our $36 price objective is based on a target P/E multiple of 12x our calendar '17E, a
discount to the group, given financial leverage, muted flows, and deal/integration risk.
Downside risks to our price objective: an equity sell-off or weakening flows, which
would pressure AUM and revenues. A return to past under-performance at key affiliates
is also a risk for Legg, given its fragile recovery and brand issues. Given their affiliate
model there are integration risks. Upside risks to our price objective are better than
expected equity markets, performance, or flows, or an accretive acquisition.

Morgan Stanley (MS)

We value the brokers based on the relationship between ROE (return on equity} and PB
(price to book), which has a high historical correlation. Our $43 PO is based on a target
PB multiple of 1.3x our forward book value estimate, which is above our 2017E ROE of
roughly 8% as we add in higher interest rate expectations and loosening regulations into
our multiple.

Risks are a weak economy, low rates for longer, a significant reduction in capital
markets activity, weak returns, another shock to the financial system, ongoing
competition and talent risk, tighter regulation, significantly higher capital requirements,
and ongoing litigation risks.

New York Community Bancorp (NYCB)

Our price objective is $17 and we use a three factor valuation model equally weighing
valuations using P/E, P/TBV and DCF models. To arrive at our P/E valuation, we assign a
14x multiple to our blended '17e EPS or inline with the median of other CCAR banks
with $50-100bn in assets. To arrive at our P/TBV valuation we applied a 2.2x multiple to
our 2Q17E TBY, a premium to NY/Thrift and smid cap peers given NYCB's superior
return profile. We arrive at our DCF valuation using we assume a 2% terminal growth
rate and a WACC of 8%.

Upside risks to our price objective are: 1} Change in SIFI threshold could drive a relief
rally, 2) Lower for longer rate backdrop, and 3) A period of heightened market volatility.

Downside risks to our price objective are: 1) worse than expected impact on ROTE from
increased capital standards from obtaining the SIFI designation and 2) higher than
expected impact from increasing rates on funding cost.

Prosperity Bancshares Inc (PB)

We use a three-factor valuation framework (P/TBV, P/E, DCF) to arrive at our $58 price
objective. We assign a 1.8x multiple to our 2Q17E TBV (40% weight} compared to 1.1x
median of TX peers. We believe the 0.7x premium to Texas peers is warranted given
PB's above average return on tangible equity (ROTE) profile. We place a 14x multiple on
2017E EPS, in line with historical P/E median (40% weight) net of accretable yield. Our
DCF valuation ({20% weight) suggests a fair value of $45. Our DCF assumes a terminal
growth rate of 3% and cost of capital of 9.9%.

Risks to our price objective are worse than expected drop in the price of oil, better than
expected macro environment and increasing rates which offset the effects of lower oil
prices, or inability to close an M&A deal due to regulatory or capital constraints.

Regions Financial (RF)
We use a three-factor valuation framework (P/E, P/TBV, DCF) to arrive at our $13 price
objective and assign a 1.4x multiple to 2017E TBV and 14x multiple on 2017E EPS. Our

Bankof America

Merrill Lynch 2016 Future of Financials Conference | 17 November 2016 71

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014385
