ex[penses. personal review? , trying to create accurate ledgers of capital expenses . so to minimize future
gain.? 3. phaidon - review from head to toe? though we agreed many times in the past this was not my
responsbility, 4. overseeing the opening of trading accts. proposed and sent over first docs in april of
14. .5. art partnership.? we agreed though the draft was sent in septl4 . and still not done though
little different from first draft. .6 picasso contract? 7 art sale 1031 8 airplane review? 9. IT system
implementation. ? tra brh sec gaming comm, foerign filing , tax, disclosure. fondation returns. ?
planning for 16? notsure . 10. insurane review with josh? stock sale prep. ? filing ?

I am available by phone. you mentioned my travel schedule ----last yea,r I canceled three European trips
and two to seatle , none to my benefit.

I have been consistant , I dont have any new proposal , do you? though i am complicated , I have no
intention of trying to convince you of value, its silly ,

OOOOOOOOOOOOO00000 i think if I have correctly deciphered your sophisticated code -
should represent -drool

Date: Tue, Mar 3, 2015 at 5:18 AM
Subject: Fwd:

To: Melanie Spinella
lets set a time to speak today if possible . 30 minutes or so. my schedule is tight

From: jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com>
Date: Mon, Sep 21, 2015 at 6:36 PM
Subject: agenda for today 5 pm?
To: Melanie Spinella < , Brad S Karp <Q

1. put someone on asap to ascertain if she is still in london. 2. set up conference will uk criminal and uk
counsel. a give them more facts. 3. choose method of message delivery. my choice. - two highly
respected former ---- fillin the blank, immigration, scotland yard. sfo. . who may knock on her door
and present the terms. 4 if not. an alternative method. 5. Is it possible to find out if she has gone to
authorities? tabloid lawyer. 6. have the same types of individuals availble in new york if she decides to
return as stated... 1 prefer former fbi, or immigration one man one woman. .7 from opening a DA
investigation to arrest. how long? 8, can we open a file in either jurisdiction, and maintain
confidentiality.

Date: Mon, Sep 21, 2015 at 6:48 PM

Subject: Re: agenda for today 5 pm?

To: Melanie Spinella

I think that Melanie should set up a separate email account for this correspondence. she currently is on
an apollo server.

There is not even a good solution . all have substantial risks. we are dealing with a wholly unpredictable
and bad minded person. I and Brad can only make suggestions/actions each less than stellar. - that being
said we should do our best to have all the facts . options etc. and to distinguish fact from opionion As
the consequences of any decision is likely to have some very bad parts , Leon needs to be cognizant of as
much as the downside as we can adequately foresee.

Date: Wed, Sep 23, 2015 at 12:07 AM
Subject: Fwd:

To: Melanie Spinella

jan 2 of this year
Date: Fri, Jan 2, 2015 at 2:55 PM

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023281
