to mind. I guess there's no reason you would know this, she'd said, but it's fairly
common for people to have one person who's their lover, and a separate person for
inflicting pain.”

I thought about that, and about Richard saying, A lot of crap comes out when you do this
stuff. I considered the maxims that tell us that the opposite of love isn't actually hate,
and how much time I'd spent encouraging myself to hate him. Finally, I admitted that the
only term I had to cover this depth of emotion was love... but that couldn't make it feel
like the right word. Then again, it wasn't exactly hate, either.

He was a demon, an idol. He hardly felt like a person to me.

I didn't vocalize any of this. Coming back from the waterfront, we arrived at the
intersection where Richard would go to his apartment and I'd return to mine. An awkward
pause ensued: I was leaving in a few days, and wouldn't be alone with him again.
Watching him, I wondered if he was thinking about asking me over, or was looking for
an excuse not to. I looked away.

Goodnight, I said. Walking home, I wished I felt strong.

te Ok ok

It was after I left Chicago that I really started piecing myself back together. My anger
drained away quickly, as if an infected wound had been lanced. Perhaps I found my
strength under the scab. I figured that maybe all this did identify something about my
personality, but it didn't tell the whole story. Even now, I could be independent, rational,
and feminist, with self-esteem and integrity. Right? Right.

It was impossible to deny that the desires were real -- and when I allowed myself to focus
on them, I didn't try. Ruminating on my past, I recalled heart-twisting details that put
everything in a certain compelling context. It wasn't just the man who'd gone after me in
2003. Wincing, I remembered childhood fantasies: I'd compulsively written and drawn
brutal dreams until, at some confused middle-school point, their horror came home to me
and I recoiled. In those long-repressed fictions of slavery and pain, I recognized my
newly-acknowledged desires.

One conversation I'd had with an early boyfriend rang in my head. There's a dark current
inside me, I'd told him. Self-consciously, I'd averted my eyes at my own melodrama. I
don't know how to be with you, when I feel it. I hadn't exactly been trying to leave him,
but I'd needed something more.

The last dream I remember of Richard didn't involve any pain at all: he just kissed me.
Awakening, I felt a melancholy pang. Richard invested a lot of self-conception in being a
sadist, and he was so distant -- I couldn't imagine relating to him as a lover. And I knew
our relationship (such as it was) would never have started without BDSM as a focus.
Previous to that night at the outdoor party, he'd hardly registered on my romantic radar,
and we had little in common in terms of how we dealt with relationships.

Still, for a moment I wished -- unreasonably, I knew -- that I could have fallen
straightforwardly in love.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018455
