292 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

clever mathematics to generate speech from seed information. For a
given speaker the vowel ‘a might be 20% middle C, 50% F and 25% A,
with a few other things thrown in for good measure. We can transmit
this information and ask the computer at the other end to re-synthesize
it. This is what happens when you listen to someone on a modern phone.
You do not hear their actual speech, you listen to a computer synthesizer
make a near approximation.

CD is no longer the gold standard for sound. Professional audio has
standardized on 24 bit recording which is probably far beyond the limit
of the human ear. An audio soundtrack is doing a good job at 2 million
bits per second.

Sitting perfectly still in the middle of a room, each ear will pick up
a different signal if the source is not directly in front of us. The two ears
on a human head face a little forward, and the hair on your head slightly
absorbs sound. We can calculate the source of the sound by the slight
difference in the times at which it strikes each ear, and the variation
in frequency content. We can use these two pieces of information to
determine the direction from which a sound is coming. It was useful for
our ancestors to be able to tell where the saber-tooth tiger was hiding.
We can gain more accurate information by turning our heads from side
to side. The differences in frequency and timing should vary as we do
so and we gain a little more data to perform the calculation. If we walk
through the room we sample yet more of the soundscape and this can be
used to pinpoint the exact location of the source. As we move, we expect
the sounds we hear to change subtly according to the mental model we
use for locating objects in the soundscape.

To give the illusion of a soundscape modern systems use multiple
microphones to capture the sound, so it can be reproduced on multiple
speakers. Ideally, we would record a hologram of the sound but it is
possible to record on thirty or so microphones and mix the tracks down
to 5 or more channels giving us the sound experience we now expect at
a modern cinema.

What is the Bandwidth of Life?

We have not yet talked about the other senses; smell, vibration,
temperature, balance, wind chill, and touch. In all, there are over 25
senses that must be stimulated accurately to simulate reality. Just think
for a moment how much information must be replayed to reproduce the
sensation of bungee jumping off a bridge in the jungle or taking off into

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015982
