never had the time to finish my muse—the interview guide. But I was getting tons of requests to do
consulting from my readers, so I started with resume editing and expanded into mock interviews— yes,
not very “muse-like” but I charged high rates and could make my old salary in a fraction of the time. I
did this ALL while staying completely anonymous out of necessity—because I didn’t want to get fired
without an alternative income stream. Amazingly, my services took off even though I couldn’t tell
anyone who I was.

At the same time, I decided I would not get another job in finance, and would instead leave in June
2008. So I had a very short amount of time to make everything work. Almost every single one of my
friends, roommates, and family doubted me and said it would never work. I decided they were all wrong
and I would just do it anyway— worst-case scenario, I could always reduce my expenses and move to
Thailand to teach English.

To boost my income, I completely revamped my site to sell more of my offerings, which took me
from pocket change to full-time income from part-time consulting over July-August 2008. This allowed
me to travel to Hawaii and Aruba to go snorkeling, surfing, and shark-cage-diving and visit friends in
other parts of the U.S. all while making an investment banker’s income from part-time work.

As the recession and economy worsened, my business picked up because it was counter-cyclical—
anything that helps people find jobs is in huge demand in a poor economy. I’ve since helped scores of
laid-off bankers and other financiers find work elsewhere. However, I was also starting to work a lot
more because I was effectively trading time for money ... so over the fall I started to work on my
original product idea—my interview guide—and released it to great success later in 2008.

It has gone on to free up a ton of time, double my revenues, and put the majority of my income on
autopilot. If I didn’t do any further work from this point onward, I could make 2—3x my previous
monthly income simply by writing once or twice a week for my site (4-5 hours) and doing limited
consulting on the side (10 hours). So you could say I’ve increased my income almost 3x while reducing
my hours 6x-9x and making myself completely mobile.

I admit that often I do “work” more than this, but it’s all on related educational projects that I want to
work on, not anything that I have to work on. And if I don’t feel like working one week, I can reduce my
hours to the 5-15 hour range and spend my time on learning languages, sports, or traveling to exotic
destinations.

This setup allowed me to take an amazing trip to China, Singapore, Thailand, and Korea in December-
January and get in some ridiculous adventures. [Il be moving to Asia in a few months and after that,
traveling the world indefinitely while running my business from coffee shops.

Incidentally, I met up with a lot of customers in Asia who thought this was the coolest thing ever!

Your book has changed my life and infinitely improved my lifestyle, and I just wanted to thank you
for everything.

—B. DECHESARE

WHO SAYS KIDS HOLD YOU BACK?

My first action was to think “what is the worst that can happen on a scale of 1-10” if I quit my well-
paid, very secure government job? The power of this thought process is incredible.

I quit my job, sold my house, and went camping for three months with two kids under two and a half

and a pregnant wife (mini-retirement). We (very slowly) drove the SE coast of Australia from Sydney to
Adelaide.

With the complete clarity of mind that comes from being in a field with your family with no
immediate worries, I put into action a plan that I had been tinkering with for 12 months. I bought a
wireless Internet dongle and created an info product for electrical engineers, and wrote some software to

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014025
