talk about anyways. He wanted to talk about something else anyways.
Sitting me down at the dining room table he began his spiel. “I know you
don’t think much of me anymore, how could you? I’m a junkie who
steals and sells drugs for a living, but I promise that’s all going to change
now. Adam is dead because of me and the only way I can make it up to
him is to get away from it all. I promise things are going to get better.” It
was a convincing talk, but I knew him all too well. His demon inside
yearned for him to fail but who was I to second-guess him out loud, I
could only try to give him hope. “No one is perfect TJ. At least you’re
trying now and that’s all that matters to me. I am so proud of you.” I gave
him a sincere hug and kissed him for the first time in a long time. “1 love
you,” he said to me and I returned my love back. We slept in the same
bed together that night and were officially back on together.

Two days later I was gone again, beckoned to be in Santa Fe. Ghislane
only told me that I was to meet someone there, not sure of whom that
was. It wasn’t my place to ask questions. As far as I knew it could be
anyone and I had no choice but to be compliant to their needs. It was the
middle of the day when I arrived at the airport. One of the ranch hands
came to pick me up in a big work truck that smelled like dirt and sweat
but I didn’t mind that’s what I loved about the countryside.

When we arrived at the mansion my guest was already there waiting for
me. I couldn’t wipe the look off my face as he turned around from the
bookshelf that he was standing at. “Hello” that same old cheesy grin
greeted me once again. It was his highness Prince Andrew, and what a
sight. He wrapped his arms around my waist and greeted me like an old
friend. | hugged him back rolling my eyes at the same time, already
dreading what lay in store over the next couple of days. My job was to
entertain him endlessly, whether that meant having to bestow him my
body during an erotic massage or simply take him horseback riding. For
the next couple of days he was to be my only concern, but he wasn’t. I
called in checking on T.J a few times a day, not wanting to be a nag but
just hoping he hadn’t had any thoughts about relapsing. He was doing
great, even applying for a couple jobs. Being reassured by him made my
time away less complicated and thankfully with the help of my ever-
ready Xanax I was able to cope with the ordeal.

The mansion was completely empty save a couple of maids who also
cooked our dinners for us, and a couple bodyguards that we hardly even
saw at all. The time dragged by slowly for me as I was counting down the
hours until 1 flew away again, anywhere but here I thought. It wasn’t easy
meeting the sexual desires of these strange men, the Prince being one of
them. He loved my feet and even licked in between my toes. Then there
was the lack of passion in the intimacy we shared, to him I was just
another girl and to me he was just another job. Not the right reasons to be

105

0 Copyright Protected Material

GIUFFRE004238

together but I thought in this world and to these monsters, there didn’t
need to be a reason. To them it’s nothing but a reenactment of their
personal fantasies. To me it was a living nightmare.

Thankfully one of Jeffrey’s assistants from New York called me on my
cell phone early in the morning on the second day to fill me in on my
next adventure. I had a flight booked for me to leave that afternoon to
arrive at La Guardia airport in the evening. Even though | had to go back
to yet another controlling man, I was still relieved. At least I was used to
the confinements of Jeffrey’s control and in some twisted way he was
more comforting than these strangers he sent me to. Overlooking the city
of New York as the plane landed felt like 1 was flying from one cage to
another, Entrapped by falling victim to the predators that lured me into
their enclosure. I didn’t know how I would ever get out again. That deep
pit in my stomach began to churn again, a physical reaction to the anxiety
I was plagued with. Before getting off the plane | touched up my make-
up to hide any signs of the frailty I was feeling.

Jo-Jo met me at the arrival terminal and picked up my luggage for me.
He never said much at all, nodding to any reciprocating conversation. I
don’t think he could really speak that good of English anyways. It was
better for me as I preferred the quietness for the moment. He opened the
back door for me and we headed off for my next prison cell. When we got
to Jeffrey’s mansion on 72™, the place looked empty. 1 walked up the
staircase to Jeffrey’s office and he wasn’t there. Feeling a bit hungry |
walked back down to where the kitchen was. I opened the fridge and
found some leftovers that Adam, Jeffrey’s chef, had cooked. | loved his
cooking, when it wasn’t filled with beansprouts and tofu. He used to
make me the best pizza upon request, or whenever he was cooking
seafood, which he knew I hated. He had an honest appeal about him and
never even took notice when on many occasions us girls would be
prancing around topless, sometimes even stark naked around the pool or
beach. He would have to serve us our meals and would do it with such a
casual professionalism, never making anyone uneasy at any occasion.

Half way through my meal the kitchen doors swung open and incoming
was Jeffrey and Ghislane. Choking down my bite of food down, I got up
from my seat and kissed them both on the cheeks. “ Hi guys, how are
you?” I greeted them and Ghislane answered for them both “Good, good.
Sit down and finish your meal, don’t let us interrupt you.” I hated eating
alone in front of people, chewing food and maintaining a conversation at
the same time didn’t give off the best look. “‘I was just finishing anyways,
can I get you guys anything, maybe a tea or something?” Always playing
my part, another reason to keep me around I guess, 1 went beyond the call
of duty and after the last period with them, | had been reminded of my
place. “Yes, Ill take a one” Ghislane stated. “Jeffrey how about you,

106

1 Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL

GIUVEFRLEOO4239.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021197
