at the time, the Florida judge sentencing Epstein “was critical of two of the deal’s conditions,
indicating she thought he was getting special treatment by being allowed private counselling for
his sex offender treatment and to serve time in county jail instead of state prison.” Samuel
Goldsmith, Jeffrey Epstein Pleads Guilty to Prostitution Charges, N.Y .POST (June 30, 2008),
available at https://nypost.com/2008/06/30/jeffrey-epstein-pleads- guilty-to-prostitution-charges/.
Another serious concern was that Epstein’s status as a billionaire investor with powerful
connections — including close relationships with Bill Clinton, Donald Trump, and Prince Andrew
— may have influenced prosecutors to give Epstein unduly favorable treatment and to turn a blind
eye to the extent of his sexual abuse of minors. /d.

There has also been critical reporting on how the Manhattan District Attorney’s Office
handled Epstein’s sex offender registration hearings in New York. After the Post obtained
copies of the transcript of the status hearing before Justice Pickholz, it published an article on
January 7, 2015, entitled “DA’s office ‘went easy’ on sex offender Epstein.” /d. Ex. B. In that
article, the Post reported that “Prosecutors went to bat for the billionaire pervert at a 2011 legal
hearing, asking a judge to cut the filthy-rich felon a break on the severity of his sex-offender
status ....” Jd. In addition to reporting the contents of the hearing transcript, Post reporters also
sought to discover why the District Attorney initially sought lenient treatment for Epstein and, as
part of its investigation, reached out for comment from the District Attorney’s Office. As the
article reported, the spokesman for the District Attorney did not give a detailed response on the
record but referred the Post instead to the portion of the Decision stating “that the prosecution’s
position was based ‘largely on the mistaken notion’ that only the formal charges against Epstein

could be factors in the decision.” Jd. The Post was unable to obtain copies of the briefs filed

4811-372 1-9459v.3 3930033-000039

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016493
