neuropsychological causality, and inhibitory on or off and activating on or off are a
priori functionally equivalent with respect to the logic gates of information encoding,
transport or storage, the modern study of brain mechanisms in emotion, cognition

and behavior remains almost as mysterious as ever.

The only human mind-brain observations that are doubted consistently, and
treated as unpublishable by the editors of the journals of science, are those that
result from direct human experience using subjective reports from within. They are
called unscientific. Often ignored are logically consistent mathematical and
computational contexts, which, as abstract and general tools of thinking and
imagining, have the capacity to frame, rigorously define and describe thinking about
both the subjective and objective aspects of brain-generated phenomena. These
mathematically configured metaphors can lead to consistencies in description, this
is behaving like that, in what are called equivalence relations expressed both as
intuitive imagery; for a concrete example, a one holed bagel and one handled tea
cup are topologically equivalent because, sculpting in clay, they can be smoothly
transformed into each other. We have seen that invariant measures in computable
statistical flows can come out of a mess of data. Professor Paul Rapp of the
University of Pennsylvania has been able to mathematically encode the verbal
content of the patient’s free associations and the therapist's responses, using tape
recordings of hours of psychoanalytical treatment. Examples of quantifiable qualities
found useful in this regard involve a variety of characteristic statistical patterns in
what are called entropies and information as well as various measures of what with
a wide range of definitions is called complexity. These quantifiable properties,
measures, can help in the struggle with the intrinsic tension of Absolute Reality
between the “eternal emptiness of form and the eternal form of emptiness.” We
resort to measures of entropy, information and complexity when confronted with our
ignorance, “emptiness,” great or little, with respect to either cause or result, about

what exactly is going on. Entropy in its forms relevant to information quantifies our

102

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013602
