European rates

Duration preference: neutral

EUR (DE) 10-year (24 Oct): 1.6% (last month: 1.6%)
UBS view EUR (DE) 10-year (6-month forecast): 1.8%
¢ Bund yields have trended sideways over the month, lacking a directional trigger. Markets still await
crucial developments in Spain, Greece and the extent of the US fiscal cliff, and have not fully reflected
mixed but stabilizing fundamentals. However, when compared to the all-time lows witnessed in August
(~1.2%), yields are still trading at decisively higher levels. This is supported by the ECB announcement to
act as a lender of last resort by intervening in the secondary markets with unlimited and conditional
government bonds purchases. In addition, the open-ended Fed stimulus hinging on the labor market
contributed to improving sentiment. This provides a cap for short-term peripheral yields and a floor for
Bund yields.
© Over a six-month horizon, we expect yields to trend slightly higher, returning to previously higher ranges.
The central bank backstops have already improved confidence and resulted in convergence between the
periphery and the core. This speaks for slightly better growth prospects and thus slightly higher yields.
¢ However, growth is still structurally weak, and short-term uncertainties (US elections, fiscal cliff, Spain)
remain. Consequently, short-term downside risks persist around year end. The ECB, however, will limit the
spread from widening, providing a bottom to Bund yields as well.
¢ In the UK, economic data stabilized and we expect the BoE to extend quantitative easing in November.
¢ In Switzerland, yields rose only slightly owing to mixed economic data. The Swiss National Bank stands
ready to act. With much negative news priced in, we believe Swiss yields will gradually start to normalize.

A Positive scenario for German bonds 10-year Bund yield (6-month range): 1.2-1.5%

¢ Implementation risks in the ECB framework remain, in particular the need for Italy and Spain to apply for

aid. At the same time, Greece may announce a second debt restructuring and is likely to leave the

Eurozone in 2013.

e US fiscal deleveraging beyond our expectations weighs on the cyclical recovery and is a drag on yields.

¢ Further non-standard policy measures by the Fed are supportive for Bunds and speak for lower yields.

& Negative scenario for German bonds 10-year Bund yield (6-month range): 1.8-2.3%

e A moderate Eurozone economic recovery kicks in. Spain and Italy are ahead on their austerity

commitments without needing ECB support. This reduces safe-haven inflows, driving Bund yields higher.

Alternatively, Germany gives additional guarantees and the Eurozone moves towards a transfer union.
Note: Scenarios refer to global economic scenarios (see slide 7)

What we're watching
Political risks and fiscal cliff

Why it matters

The US fiscal cliff, Greek negotiations, Spanish local elections and Spain delaying its
application for assistance add to policy uncertainty.

Key dates: Nov 8, ECB; Dec 11, Fed FOMC meeting
Credit conditions (ECB bank lending survey)

Central banks
Economic variables

The level of yield spreads to German bonds influences the level of German Bund yields due
to safe-haven flows.

Eurozone yield spreads

2 UBS

Recommendations

Tactical (6 months)

e If the ECB were to intervene with massive
amounts in the peripheral bond markets,
Bund yields would rise more significantly.
But, for the time being, we expect only
moderate interventions that do no
meaningful harm to Germany's credit
quality. We recommend staying neutral on
duration tactically.

Strategic (1 to 2 years)

e Yields have significant upside potential
over the next couple of years. Thus clients
with a long time horizon should focus on
bonds with short and medium maturities.

EU 10-year yields and forecasts

5%

A% | tam
Nf ‘

3% 4

2%

1%

0% a
Oct-09 Oct-11 Oct-13

Oct-10 Oct-12

— UK 10Y
— Switzerland 10Y

s2) forecasts
Germany 10Y

Source: Bloomberg, UBS, as of October 15, 2012

Note: Past performance is not an indication of future returns.

For further information, please contact ClO's asset class specialist Daniela Steinbrink Mattei, daniela.steinbrinkmattei@ubs.com, Sebastian Vogel, sebastian.vogel@ubs.com 25

or Nina Gotthelf, nina.gotthelf@ubs.com

Please see important disclaimer and disclosures at the end of the document.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025272
