nonpeople such as a god or a gadget or a
pet.

Attending. People rarely notice
things in their environment unless they
are specifically attending to them. Other
minds likewise tend to be relatively
invisible unless attention is specifically
drawn to them. For instance, take a
moment to think about how happy you
are compared to the average American...
No really, please take a moment...If you
just spent some time thinking about how
happy you are and no time thinking
about how happy the average American
is, then you are no different from the
majority of people in psychology
experiments who do likewise*. People
can consider others’ thoughts, feelings,
beliefs, or emotions, but doing so
requires mental effort that is in short and
limited supply. Consider, for instance, a
simple experiment in which you are
playing a game with another person’.
Both you and the other player in this
game must first choose privately to
cooperate or compete with each other. If
you both choose to cooperate, you both
earn $5. But if the other player chooses
to cooperate and you choose to compete,
then you win $10 and your partner gets
nothing. If you, however, choose to
cooperate and the other player chooses
to compete, you win nothing and your
partner wins $10. If you both choose to
compete, you both win a measly $2. It
seems obvious in this situation that you
should consider both what you would
like to do, but also consider what the
other player is likely to be thinking.
Experimental evidence suggests that
people do indeed think about the former
but spend little time thinking of the
latter. In a basic version of this
experiment, 60% of people chose to
cooperate. However, when people were
simply asked to think about their

Page | 96

partner’s thoughts before making their
choice, only 27% chose to cooperate. If
people had already been thinking about
others’ thoughts, as it seems like they
would naturally be doing in this
situation, then a simple instruction to
consider others’ thoughts would have no
effect on people’s own behavior. That is
not the case. This simple experiment
shows that people may not naturally
consider other minds even when it
appears that they should. Thinking
about other minds requires attentional
effort. It does not necessarily come
automatically. Indeed, as Tanya
Luhrmann describes in her chapter,
people may have to work very hard to
discern other minds, such as the mind of
God, even when they are actively
looking for them.

Seeking. If seeing other minds
requires attention, then other minds are
especially likely to become visible when
people are motivated to think about
them. There are many reasons why
people might try to get into the mind of
another agent, from a spouse to a pet to a
god, but two are reasonably well-
supported by existing research. First,
people tend to think about other minds
when they are trying to form a social
connection with others. '° Making
people feel lonely or isolated, for
instance, increases the tendency to
describe one’s pet as thoughtful,
considerate, or sympathetic (all mindful
traits). And those who are made to feel
lonely are also likely to report believing
in mindful supernatural agents, such as
God. Second, people tend to think about
other minds when they are trying to
achieve some understanding and control
over their environment or over another
agent’s behavior.’ Concepts of mind,
including attitudes, beliefs, goals, or
desires, can provide compelling cause-

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021342
