21

policy and state downsizing, and the Bank created a new branch
devoted to reform of developing country public sectors. These
changes constituted an open admission that politics was a critical
component of development, and that the state was not simply an
obstacle to growth but often a necessary underpinning for it.
Increasingly, donor agencies have seen the promotion of democratic
accountability as one tool in the fight against corruption.

This modest degree of convergence should not, however, obscure the
continuing degree of compartmentalization that exists in the field of
development. While paying lip service to the importance of
institutions, most economists and field practitioners still see politics
as at best an obstacle to the real work of development, which is
improvement in incomes, health, education and the like, and not as an
independent objective of development strategy. (Amartya Sen is an
important exception to this generalization.) The democracy
promotion agencies, for their part, spend relatively little time
worrying about economic growth, social policy or public health,
which in their view are goods often used by authoritarian regimes to
buy off populations and prevent democratization.

The intellectual confusion surrounding development has led to
severely Balkanized policies both in the United States and in the
international community that often work at cross purposes from one
another. For example, the authoritarian or semi-authoritarian regimes
of Meles Zenawi in Ethiopia, Paul Kagame in Rwanda and Yoweri
Museveni in Uganda have been aid darlings over the past decade
because of their track records in promoting economic, health and
social goals. At the same time, democracy promotion groups have
been highly critical of them and have supported opposition groups
and civil society organizations seeking accountability and limits on
executive power. To be sure, aid agencies don’t object to greater
government accountability on the part of these regimes, while the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023478
