be
Bo
acti

security discussed in the report should do so through MLPF&S and not such foreign affiliates. Hong Kong recipients of this research report should contact Merrill Lynch (Asia Pacific) Limited in

respect of any matters relating to dealing in securi

ies (and not futures contracts) or provision of specific advice on securities (and not futures contracts). Singapore recipients of this research

report should contact Merrill Lynch International Bank Limited (Merchant Bank) and/or Merrill Lynch (Singapore) Pte Ltd in respect of any matters arising from, or in connection with, this

research report.

General Investment Related Disclosures:

Taiwan Readers: Neither the information nor any o|
this report may be used or reproduced or quoted in any manner whatsoever in Taiwan by t
This research report provides general information only. Neither the information nor any op
other financial instrument or any derivative related
personal investment advice and it does not take in
ppropriateness of investing in financial instruments and
re prospects may not be realized. Any decision to purchase or subscribe for securities in any o
he prospectus or other offering document issued in connec
Securities and other financial instruments discussed in this report, or recommended, o
any insured deposi

financial advice regarding the a
that statements regarding futu
security or the information in t

deposits or other obligations o
among others, market risk, cou

instruments may be difficult to
income from such securities and

ose their entire principal inves
This report may contain a shor
reflects both a longer term total
more or less positive than as

n

short-term price impact on the e

value or sell and re

ment. Past performance is not necessarily a guide to

pinion expressed herein constitutes an offer or a solicitation of an offer to

o account the specific investment objectives, financial situation and the p.

im

fered or sold by Merrill Lynch, are not
tory institution (including, Bank of A
erparty default risk and liquidity risk. No security, financi
iable information about the value or
other financial instruments, if any, may fluctuate and
U
erm trading idea or recommendation, which highlights a specific near-term catalyst or even
quity securities of the issuer. Short-term trading ideas and recommendations are different fi
return expectation and attractiveness for investment relative to other stocks within i
ock’s fundamental equity rating.

instrument or derivative is suitab

a

ha

risks related to the security or financial instrument may be difficu
price or value of such securities and instruments may rise or fal
ure performance. Levels and basis for taxation may change.

s Coverage Cluster. Short-term trad

transact in any securities or o

articular needs of any specific

plementing investment strategies discussed or recommended in

insured by the Federal Deposi

merica, N.A.). Investments in general and, derivatives, in particular, in
e for all investors. In some cases, securi

t

0 obtain.

impacting the issuer or the
rom and do not affect a stocl

A Merrill Lynch is aware that
on may be limited by regulati

he implementation of the ideas expressed in this report may depend upon an investor's abi
ons prohibiting or restricting shortselling” in many jurisdictions. Investors are urged to seek

ity to short securities or ot
advice regarding the applical

market tha
's fundamental equity rating, which
ing ideas and recommendations may

her financia
bility of suc

her financial instrument. No part of

he press or any other person without the express written consent of BofA Merrill Lynch.

inion expressed constitutes an offer or an invitation to make an offer, to buy or sell any securities or

to such securities or instruments (e.g, options, futures, warrants, and contracts for differences}. This report is not intended to provide

person. Investors should seek

this report and should understand

fering must be based solely on existing public information on such

ion with such offering, and not on this report.
Insurance Corporation and are not

volve numerous risks, including,

jes and other financial
nvestors should note that

and, in some cases, investors may

is anticipated to have a

instruments and that such

ie

Fi
ine
UK
ocated outsi

uding AD

ime, hold a
BofA Merrill
w

executing any short idea contained in this repo!
Foreign currency rates of exchange may adversely affect
Rs, effectively assume currency risk.
Readers: The protections provided by the U.K. regulatory regime, including the Financial Services Scheme, co not a
de of the United Kingdom. BofA
LPF&S or one of its affiliates is a regular issuer of traded financial instru
rading position (long or short} in the securiti
Lynch, through business units other than Bo
ith, and reach different conclusions from, the information presented in

rt.

errill Lynch Global Researe

es and financial

methods of the persons who prepared them, and BofA Merrill Lynch is un
recipient of this report.

In the event that the recipient received this report pursuant to a contract
therewith MLPF&S may be deemed

beyond the delivery of this report (unless otherwise agreed specifically in

transactions, i

ncluding transactions i

nany securities mentioned in this re

Copyright and General Information regarding Research Reports:

Copyright 20

retransmitted
simultaneous

ly to interna

review of this research report consti

(including any investmen
Materials p

BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research and certain business groups. As a resul
research reports. To the extent this report discusses any legal proceeding or issue
should consult their own

any BofA Merrill Lynch entity and/or its directors, officers and employees may be
on public information. Facts and views presented in this material that rela
professionals in other busi

This re

securities. None of MLPF&S, any of i

Global Research policy prohibits rese

report containing such rating, recommendation or investment thesis.

Any in
seek tax advice based on tl
The information herein (o
may contain links to third-
contained on such third-pa
any affiliation with BofA
submitting any personal in
Certain outstanding repor'
recent research report rela

6 Bank of America Con
iOcustom®, iQdatabase® are registered service marks of Bank of America Corporation. T|
or in part, or in any form or manner, without
and client websites and other portals by BofA
utes your agreement not to redistribute, retransmi
recommendations, estimates or price targets) without
repared by BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research personnel are ba:
information known to, professionals in other business areas of BofA Merri

or disclosed, in whole

ormation relating to the tax s

rty websi
errill Lyne

he value, price or income of any security or financial instrument mentioned in this report. Inves

h policies relating to conflicts of interest are described at http:/
ments linked to securities that may have been recommended i
instruments discussed in this report.

his report. Such ideas or recommendations reflect the differen
der no obligation to ensure that such other trading ideas or rec

port.

poration. All rights reserved. iQmethod, iQmethod 2.0, iQprofile, iQtoolkit, iQworks are service marks of Ban

errill Lynch and are not publicly-available materials. Any unautl
, or disclose to others the contents, opinions, co

plaintif
e to any such

s, defendants, co-defendants or co-plaintiffs wi

he express written consent of BofA Merrill Lynch. BofA Merril

sed on public i
| Lynch, including investment banking personnel. BofA Merrill
, BofA Merrill Lynch does not disclose certain client relationshi

ors in such

pply in general to business coordinated by BofA Merri

/go.bofa.com/coi.

n this report. ML

‘A Merrill Lynch Global Research, may have issued and may in the future issue trading ideas or recommenda

t time frames, assumptions,
ommendations are brought

between the recipient and MLPF&S for the provision of research services for a separate fee,
o be acting as an investment adviser, such status relates, if at all, solely to the person with whom MLPF&S
writing by MLPF&S). MLPF&S is and continues to act solely as a broker-dealer in connection

has contracted direct

of America Corpora

his research report is prepared for the use of BofA Merri

nclusion, or information con

atus of financial instruments discussed herein is not intended to provide tax advice or to be used by anyone to provide tax advice.
heir particular circumstances from an independent tax professional.
her than disclosure information relating to BofA Merrill Lynch and its affiliates) was obtained from various sources and we do not guarantee i
party websites. BofA Merrill Lynch is not responsible for the content of any third-party website or any linked content contained in a third-par'
es is not part of this report and is not incorporated by reference into this report. The inclusion of a link in this report does not im
h. Access to any third-party website is at your own risk, and you should always review the terms and privacy policies at third-party websi
ormation to them. BofA Merrill Lynch is not responsible for such terms and privacy policies and expressly disclaims any liability for them.

s may contain discussions and/or investment opinions relating to securities, financial instruments and/or issuers that are no longer curren
ing to an issuer prior to making an investment decision.

In some cases, an issuer may be classified as Restricted or may be Under Review or Extended Review. In each case, investors should consider any investment opinion

its security and/or financial

instruments) to be suspended or withdrawn and should not rely on the analyses and investment opinion(s) pertaining to such issuer (or i

PF&S or one of its

h regulations prior to
securities and instruments,
I Lynch entities

affiliates may, at any

jons that are inconsistent
views and analytical
‘0 the attention of any

and in connection
ly and does not extend
with the execution of any

jon. \Qanalytics®,

| Lynch clients and may not be redistributed,
Lynch Global Research reports are distributed
horized use or disclosure is prohibited. Receipt and

ained in this report

first obtaining expressed permission from an authorized officer of BofA Merrill Lynch.
nformation. Facts and views presented in this material have not been reviewed by, and may not reflect
Lynch has established information barriers between

ps with, or compensation received from, such issuers in
s, it has not been prepared as nor is it intended to express any legal conclusion, opinion or advice. Investors
egal advisers as to issues of law relating to the subject matter of this report. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research personnel’s knowledge of legal proceedings in which

h or involving issuers mentioned in this report is based
proceedings have not been reviewed by, discussed with, and may not reflect in
ness areas of BofA Merrill Lynch in connection with the legal proceedings or matters relevant to such proceedings.
port has been prepared independently of any issuer of securities mentioned herein and not in connection with any proposed offering of securities or as agent of
s affiliates or their research analysts has any authority whatsoever to make any representation or warranty on behalf of the issuer(s). Bo
arch personnel from disclosing a recommendation, investment rating, or investment thesis for review by an issuer prior to the pub

ormation known to,

any issuer of any

A Merrill Lynch
ication of a research
nvestors are urged to
ts accuracy. This report
y website. Content

ply any endorsement by or
es before

. Always refer to the most

relating to such issuer (or
s securities and/or

financial instruments) nor should the analyses or opinion(s} be considered a solicitation of any kind. Sales persons and financial advisors affiliated with MLPF&S or any of its affiliates may not
solicit purchases of securities or financial instruments that are Restricted or Under Review and may only solicit securities under Extended Review in accordance with
Neither BofA Merrill Lynch nor any officer or employee of BofA Merrill Lynch accepts any liability whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential damages or losses arising from any use of

this report or its contents.

irm policies.

6

Japan Investment Strategy | 18 November 2016

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014409

BankofAmerica <2
Merrill Lynch
