Less Is More: The Art of Voluntary Poverty—An Anthology of Ancient and Modern Voices in Praise
of Simplicity (336 pages)

EDITED BY GOLDIAN VANDENBROECK

This is a collection of bite-sized philosophies on simple living. I read it to learn how to do the most with
the least and eliminate artificial needs, not live like a monk—big difference. It incorporates actionable
principles and short stories ranging from Socrates to Benjamin Franklin and the Bhagavad Gita to
modern economists.

The Monk and the Riddle: The Education of a Silicon Valley Entrepreneur (192 pages)

BY RANDY KOMISAR

This great book was given to me by Professor Zschau as a graduation gift and introduced me to the
phrase “deferred-life plan.” Randy, a virtual CEO and partner at the legendary Kleiner Perkins, has been
described as a “combined professional mentor, minister without portfolio, in-your-face investor, trouble-
shooter and door opener.” Let a true Silicon Valley wizard show you how he created his ideal life using
razor-sharp thinking and Buddhist-like philosophies. I’ve met him—he’s the real deal.

The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Success by Achieving More with Less (288 pages)
BY RICHARD KOCH

This book explores the “nonlinear” world, discusses the mathematical and historical support for the 80/20
Principle, and offers practical applications of the same.

Muse Creation and Related Skills

Harvard Business School Case Studies www.hbsp.harvard.edu (click on “school cases”’)

One of the secrets behind Harvard Business School’s teaching success is the case method—using real-life
case studies for discussion. These cases take you inside the marketing and operational plans of 24-Hour
Fitness, Southwest Airlines, Timberland, and hundreds of other companies. Few people realize that you
can purchase these case studies for less than $10 apiece instead of spending more than $100,000 to go to
Harvard (not that the latter isn’t worth it). There is a case study for every situation, problem, and
business model.

“This business has legs”: How I Used Infomercial Marketing to Create the $100,000,000 Thighmaster
Craze: An Entrepreneurial Adventure Story (206 pages)

BY PETER BIELER

This is the story of how a naive (in the best sense of the word) Peter Bieler started from scratch—no
product, no experience, no cash—and created a $100-million merchandising empire in less than two
years. It is a mind-expanding and often hysterical case study that uses real numbers to discuss the fine
points of everything from dealing with celebrities to marketing, production, legal, and retail. Peter can
now finance the media purchases for your product: www.mediafunding.com.

Secrets of Power Negotiating: Inside Secrets from a Master Negotiator (256 pages)
BY ROGER DAWSON

This is the one negotiating book that really opened my eyes and gave me practical tools I could use

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014031
