2. Most Current Draft of AAP
3. Redline of 1 against 2
4. Summary of AAP from Vanessa Eng
----- Original Message-----
From: Barry J. Cohen (aS
Sent: Friday, March 17, 2017 8:07 AM
To: jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com>
Cc: Brad Wechsler <g>; Melanie Spinella
<>: Ada Clapp
Subject: request for docs
I will organize. Copying Ada who has a lot of this.
Sent from my iPhone
On Mar 17, 2017, at 7:25 AM, jeffrey E.
<jeevacation@gmail.com<mailto:jeevacation@gmail.com>> wrote:

can you send me latest bank art loan docs. BRH agreement . TRA agreement ,
agreement amongst shareholders. . , org chart for phaidon , art space and regan arts. . .
, ownership only,. - list of invetsments , ownership of |.a. house.structure, / list of
art by highest gain. . -

Date: Tue, Dec 29, 2015 at 7:26 AM
Subject: Fwd: leon DO NOT SEND, hand deliver.
To: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com>

Transaction complete !
. this - in spite of your collection of Elysium misfits. !!!

With Brad out of the office and unable to run his usual interference , the level of his utter incompetence
was brought front and center, he may be a step up from Eileen, but if he is , then it is not certainly not by
much, . Though you and I have spent many many hours discussing the importance of details and
mechanics. I was not shown one document re phaidon,- not one.. Brad wanted to keep it private between
he and his so called advisors. however as he was out of the office during the most important
transaction of the year, I did get to spend time with joslin Joe and john, - the situation in your office is
wholly ludicrous - to summarize - the list I provided to Brad last December - things I thought were a
priority to get done after consulting with your office _ still remains virtually undone.

IT, still desperately needed- reporting flawed cumbersome and inaccurate . all done by hand as one -off
exercises , - airplane: re structure, (my only suggested priority in june ) is really ,no further ahead,
consultants up the kazoo but nothing at all done.( the office was told that i cannot even see the proposals
received without brads specific authorization ) - brad has no idea even as to what questions to ask. he
knows little of finance, is run roughshod over by almost everyone in the office. he is a little man , using
your power, to appear larger . Eileen was self aware enough to know she was over her head , that is a huge
difference. bad info is rampant ie 3 million in deductions Im told are taken for art space but on closer
examination it turns out they cannot be used at all. (ZERO benefit ) though you will be told yes they
were deducted on the return they said that is the question they get asked !  were they deducted  not -
is there a benefit !!_ I asked for the balance sheet and P and L for Regan arts , a basic first step in

2

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023256
