JULIE TAYMOR

In 1998, Julie Taymor became the first woman to win the Tony®
Award for Best Direction of a Musical, and also won a Tony®
for Best Costumes, for her landmark production of The Lion
King. The musical has won three Moliére Awards including
Best Musical and Best Costumes, garnered Drama Desk,

Outer Critics Circle and Drama League awards for Taymor’s
direction, and myriad awards for her original costume, mask
and puppet designs. For her latest Broadway production,
Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark, Taymor served as director and
co-book writer. Taymor made her Broadway debut in 1996 with
Juan Darién: A Carnival Mass, nominated for five Tony® Awards.

Other theater work includes The Green
Bird, Titus Andronicus, The Tempest, The Taming of the
Shrew, The Transposed Heads and Liberty’s Taken.

Taymor’s feature film directorial debut, Titus, starred
Anthony Hopkins, Jessica Lange and Alan Cumming. In 2002,
her biographical film Frida, starring Salma Hayek and Alfred
Molina, earned six Academy Award® nominations, winning
two. She took on the music of the Beatles, and earned a
Golden Globe® nomination for Best Motion Picture—Musical
or Comedy, in Across the Universe. Julie’s most recent
film, The Tempest, had its North American premiere at the
48th New York Film Festival in October 2010, following
a world premiere at the 67th Venice International Film
Festival. Taymor’s adaptation of the William Shakespeare
play features an all-star cast including Helen Mirren,

Russell Brand, Djimon Hounsou and Alfred Molina.

Beyond the theatre and screen, Taymor has
directed five operas internationally including Oedipus
Rex with Jessye Norman, for which she earned the
International Classical Music Award for Best Opera
Production. A subsequent film version premiered at the
Sundance Film Festival and won her an Emmy® award.

Taymor also directed Salomé, The Flying Dutchman,
Die Zauberfléte (which has been in repertory at The Met for six
years), The Magic Flute (the abridged English version of Die
Zauberfléte, which inaugurated a new PBS series entitled “Great
Performances at The Met”) and Elliot Goldenthal’s Grendel.

An illustrated book on her career, Julie Taymor:

Playing With Fire, was recently expanded and revised by Harry
N. Abrams. Her book, The Lion King: Pride Rock on Broadway,
is published by Hyperion. Taymor’s adapted screenplay for
Titus is published in an illustrated book by Newmarket Press.
An illustrated book, Frida: Bringing Frida Kahlo’s Life and Art
to Film, is available from Newmarket Press. Harry N. Abrams
also published an illustrated screenplay of Taymor’s film
adaptation of The Tempest which coincided with its premiere.
Taymor is a 1991 recipient of the
MacArthur “genius” Fellowship.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017558
