James PATTERSON

19. In addition to constantly finding underage girls to
satisfy their personal desires, Epstein and Maxwell also got
girls for Epstein's friends and acquaintances. Epstein specifi-
cally told me that the reason for him doing this was so that
they would “owe him,” they would “be in his pocket,” and he
would “have something on them.” I understood that Epstein
thought he could get leniency if he was ever caught doing
anything illegal, or that he could escape trouble altogether.

Roberts submitted her declaration in support of a motion to

be added as a plaintiff in a suit (ongoing, as of this writing) that

sought to overturn a non-prosecution agreement that Jeffrey

Epstein would reach with the government. Roberts was seeking eS

to join a case brought against the government by two other vic-
tims, but a judge denied her motion in April of 2015, explaining
- that the case had already been pending for several years, and it
was unneccesary to add an additional plaintiff. a

Roberts's declaration, which goes on for another eight pages, and

makes twenty-four additional points, was stricken from the record— i

the judge explained that the “lurid” and “unnecessary details”
rmment, were

involving “non-parties” to the lawsuit against the gove
“immaterial and impertinent” to the proceedings.

Through a representative, Ghislaine Maxwell called the 3

bvious lies,” after which Roberts filed a 4

allegations against her “o
defamation suit against Maxwell. In an answer filed in the suit, —

Maxwell elaborated that Roberts's “story of abuse at the hands of ©

Ms. Maxwell” was “fabricated” for financial gain.

138

Alicia: May 20, 1997

onald Trump’s instin

solid. But if the repc

into Epstein’s myster:

ther, there’s a chance they w«
not just in Palm Beach.

In California, for instan

from the Santa Monica Police

In the spring—almost the

q the police. The young woman)
. appeared on Baywatch and Gei
4 ally assaulted at a trendy hotel

The officer who took th

gp plicia —and her voice. A w

* Alicia’
4 ia’s name, some identifying «

‘-

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022105
