Federal Register/Vol. 76, No. 168/Tuesday, August 30, 2011/Rules and Regulations

54041

on substantial evidence, nor does it
provide a satisfactory explanation for
the choice they have made. They
contend that a mandatory notice posting
rule enforceable through Section 8(a)(1)
is needed because they believe that most
employees are unaware of their NLRA
rights and therefore cannot effectively
exercise those rights. This belief is
based on: (1) Some studies indicating
that employees and high school
students about to enter the work force
are generally uninformed about labor
law; (2) an influx of immigrants in the
labor force who are presumably also
uninformed about labor law; (3) the
current low and declining percentage of
union-represented employees in the
private sector, which presumably means
that unions are less likely to be a source
of information about employee rights;
and (4) the absence of any general legal
requirement that employers or anyone
else inform employees about their
NLRA rights. 75 FR 80411.

Neither the Notice of Proposed
Rulemaking nor today’s notice
summarizing comments in response to
that notice come anywhere close to
providing a substantial factual basis
supporting the belief that most
employees are unaware of their NLRA
rights. As for the lack of high school
education on this subject, we have only
a few localized studies cited in a 1995
journal article by a union attorney.184
With respect to the assumption that
immigrants entering the work force, we
have even less, only anecdotal accounts.
For that matter, beyond the cited journal
article, almost all supposed factual
support for the premise that employees
are generally unaware of their rights
comes in comments received from
individuals, union organizers, attorneys
representing unions, and immigrant
rights and worker assistance
organizations agreeing, based on
professed personal experience, that
most employees (obviously not
including most of the employee
commenters) are unfamiliar with their
NLRA rights. There are, as well,
anecdotal accounts and comments from
employers, employer associations and

184 Peter D. DeChiara, ‘‘The Right to Know: An
Argument for Informing Employees of Their Rights
under the National Labor Relations Act,” 32 Harv.
J. on Legis. 431, at 436 and fn. 28 (1995).

In the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, the
majority also relied on two articles by Professor
Charles J. Morris, a co-petitioner for notice-posting
rulemaking: “Renaissance at the NLRB—
Opportunity and Prospect for Non-Legislative
Procedural Reform at the Labor Board,” 23 Stetson
L. Rev. 101, 107 (1993); and “NLRB Protection in
the Nonunion Workplace: A Glimpse at a General
Theory of Section 7 Conduct,” 137 U. Pa. L. Rev.
1673, 1675-1676 (1989). Professor Morris did not
refer to any specific evidence supporting a belief
that employees lack knowledge of their rights.

management attorneys to the opposite
effect that the employees know about
their rights under the Act, but my
colleagues find these less persuasive.

In any event, the partisan opinions
and perceptions, although worthy of
consideration, ultimately fail as
substantial evidence supporting the
Board majority’s initial premise for
proposing the rule. There remains the
Board’s conclusion that the decline in
union density provides the missing
factual support. The majority explains
that there was less need for a posting of
information about NLRA rights when
the union density was higher because
“friends and family who belonged to
unions’ would be a source of
information. This is nothing more than
supposition. There is no empirical
evidence of a correlation between union
density and access to information about
employee rights, just as there are no
broad-based studies supporting the
suppositions about a lack of information
stemming from high school curricula or
the influx of immigrants in the work
force.

At bottom, the inadequacy of the
record to support my colleagues’ factual
premise is of no matter to them. In
response to comments contending that
the articles and studies they cite are old
and inadequately supported, they glibly
respond that the commenters ‘‘cite no
more recent or better supported studies
to the contrary,” as if opponents of the
proposed rule bear that burden. Of
course, it is the agency’s responsibility
to make factual findings that support its
decision and those findings must be
supported by substantial evidence that
must examine the relevant data and
articulate a satisfactory explanation for
its action. Burlington Truck Lines, 371
U.S. at 167.

Even more telling is the majority’s
footnote observation that there is no real
need to conduct a study of the extent of
employees’ knowledge of NLRA rights
because the notice posting rule would
be justified even if only 10 percent of
the workforce lacked such knowledge.
This statement betrays the entire factual
premise upon which the rulemaking
initiative was purportedly founded and
reveals a predisposition to issue the rule
regardless of the facts. This is patently
“arbitrary and capricious.”

Even assuming, if we must, that there
is some factual basis for a concern that
employees lack sufficient information
about their NLRA rights, the majority
also fails to provide a rational
explanation for why that concern
dictates their choice made to address
that concern. Why, for instance, was a
noncompulsory information system,
primarily reliant on personal union

communications, sufficient when the
Wagner Act was passed, but not now?
The union density levels for 1935 and
today are roughly the same.185 Why at
a time when the Board champions its
new Web site and the Acting General
Counsel continues to encourage the
regional outreach programs initiated by
his predecessor, do my colleagues so
readily dismiss the Board’s role in
providing information about rights
under the statute we administer? For
that matter, why are the numerous
employee, labor organizer, and worker
advocacy groups whose comments
profess awareness of these rights unable
to communicate this information to
those who they know lack such
awareness? Is the problem one of access
or message? Would a reversal of the
union density trend or an increase in
petition and charge filings be the only
reliable indicators of increased
awareness?

I would think that a reasoned
explanation for the choice of a sweeping
rule making it unlawful for employers to
fail to post and maintain notice of
employee rights would at least include
some discussion of these questions and
attempt to marshal more than a
fragmented and inconclusive factual
record to support their choice. The
majority fails to do so. Their rule is
patently arbitrary and capricious.

Executive Order 13496

The majority mentions in passing
Executive Order 13496 186 and the DOL
implementing regulation 187 mandating
that Federal contractors post a notice to
employees of NLRA rights that is in
most respects identical to the notice at
issue here. Their consideration of this
administrative action should have led
them to the understanding that they lack
the authority to do what the President
and DOL clearly could do to advance
essentially the same policy choice.

The authority to require that
contractors agree to post an NLRA
employee rights notice as part of doing
business with the Federal government
comes both from the President’s
authority as chief executive and the
specific grant of Congressional authority
in the Federal Property and
Administrative Services Act, 40 U.S.C.
101 et seq. There was no need or
attempt to justify the promulgation of
the notice-posting rule by relying on
evidence that employees lacked
knowledge of their rights. Moreover, in

185 Mayer, Gerald, “Union Membership Trends in
the United States” (2004). Federal Publications.
Paper 174, Appendix A. http://
digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/key_workplace/.

186 74 FR 6107 (Feb. 4, 2009).

187 75 FR 28368 (May 20, 2011).

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022312
