Common LP Unit have substantially equivalent economic
provisions.

Fixed Overhead Payment: KUE and/or one or more of its subsidiaries will pay $20
million annually to KULG in quarterly installments beginning
July 7, 2006 pursuant to the Fixed Overhead Payment
Agreement as an agreed upon payment to provide for the
reimbursement of expenses and other costs incurred by
KULG on behalf of KUE and its subsidiaries (including, but
not limited to, salaries and bonuses of KULG employees
providing services to KUE and its subsidiaries, fees and
expenses relating to financing transactions and acquisitions,
professional fees and other administrative expenses). To
the extent that the U.S. $2,500,000 fee payable pursuant to
an existing management services agreement with
Knowledge Learning Corporation is paid to any person or
entity other than a subsidiary of KUE, the amount payable to
KULG by KUE will be reduced by the amount of such
payment to such other person or entity. The $20 million
annual fee will terminate upon the Initial Listing (as defined
below) or the sale of KUE to a person or entity that is not a
KUE LLC Entity.

Voting Rights: The General Partner will manage and operate KUE.

The Investors will have no voting rights on matters affecting
Company business with respect to their Common LP Units in
KUE because the Investors will be limited partners of KUE.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, subject to certain exceptions,
KUE must obtain the consent of (a) the holders of a majority
of the Common LP Units unaffiliated with the Principals to
amend the Limited Partnership Agreement in a manner that
is adverse to the Common LP holders and (b) the holders of
at least 90% of the Common LP Units unaffiliated with the
Principals to amend the “Equal Merger Consideration
Provision” described above. In addition, the General Partner
‘may not take any action fo (a) alter or add to its Articles or
{b) alter or add to its Memorandum with respect to any
objects, powers or other maiters specified therein that would
adversely affect the rights of holders of Class A Shares
without the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the
Class A Shares.

Holders of the Class A Shares of the General Partner will
have one vote per share. The holders cof Class B Shares,
will have in the aggregate one more vote than the requisite
legal vote required to approve particular matters. In addition,
the Investors will have the right to elect directors to the
Board of Directors of the General Partner as set forth in
“Board of Directors” below.

The Class B Shares will automatically convert to Class A
Shares if the Principals' aggregate direct and indirect
economic interest in KUE is less than 15% of the

32

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024465
