Palm House Robert Matthews EB-5 Clintons Trump Tony Bennett https://therealdeal.com/miami/issues_articles/lost-paradise-at-th...

2 of 10

MHyoo

~ SOUTH FLORIDA REAL ESTATE NEWS
Q SUBSCRIBE MY ACCOUNT

in EB-5 funding for personal expenses, including the purchase of a 151-foot yacht

named “Alibi” and his own debt payments.

Matthews and the project’s general contractor, Nicholas Laudano, recently pleaded
guilty to fraud charges in federal court, while the 91 EB-5 backers lost their $500,000

investments and never received their green cards.

The EB-5 regional center in charge of marketing the Palm House project and
soliciting the investments, however, has not been criminally charged. The South
Atlantic Regional Center (SARC) and its director, Joseph Walsh Sr., were allegedly
able to siphon nearly $9.5 million of the foreign investors’ money, according to a civil

complaint filed by the SEC in federal court.
To date, Walsh has only been charged civilly. He was allegedly even found recently

trying to solicit other EB-5 investors for another hotel project in Miami Beach, per a

lawsuit filed in Palm Beach County.

“This is the most egregious fraud case I have ever seen,” said attorney David George,
of George Gesten McDonald PLLC, who's representing EB-5 investors in the Palm

House lawsuit.

Regional centers like SARC function as middlemen between Robert

Matthews

developers and their foreign investors. But despite the key role
they play in the EB-5 process, there’s minimal regulation over

how they operate and few safeguards to protect investors.

The current system, critics say, is a petri dish for fraud that

allows bad actors to come and go — in many cases with no
criminal prosecutions. At the same time, lobbyists for the real

estate industry have pushed to ensure these rules remain in place.

“No one is watching the regional centers,’ said Doug Litowitz, a Chicago attorney who

was not involved in the Palm House lawsuit but represents Chinese clients in other

6/26/19, 11:57 AM

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029521
