It might be emotionally difficult, but you won’t starve. Park your car in the garage and cancel
insurance for a few months. Carpool or take the bus until you find the next gig. Rack up some more
credit card debt and cook instead of eating out. Sell all the crap that you spent hundreds or thousands on
and never use.

Take a full inventory of your assets, cash reserves, debts, and monthly expenses. How long could you
survive with your current resources or if you sold some assets?

Go through all expenses and ask yourself, If I had to eliminate this because I needed an extra kidney,
how would I do it? Don’t be melodramatic when there is no need—few things are fatal, particularly for
smart people. If you’ve made it this far in life, losing or dropping a job will often be little more than a
few weeks of vacation (unless you want more) prior to something better.

3. Health insurance and retirement accounts disappear if I quit.
Untrue.

I was scared of both when I was eliminated from TrueSAN. I had visions of rotting teeth and working
at Wal-Mart to survive.

Upon looking at the facts and exploring options, I realized that I could have identical medical and
dental coverage—the same provider and network—for $300-500 per month. To transfer my 401(k) to
another company (I chose Fidelity Investments) was even easier: It took less than 30 minutes via phone
and cost nothing.

Covering both of these bases takes less time than getting a customer service rep on the phone to fix
your electric bill.

4. It will ruin my resume.
I love creative nonfiction.

It is not at all difficult to sweep gaps under the rug and make uncommon items the very things that get
job interviews. How? Do something interesting and make them jealous. If you quit and then sit on your
ass, I wouldn’t hire you either.

On the other hand, if you have a one-to-two-year world circumnavigation on your resume or training
with professional soccer teams in Europe to your credit, two interesting things happen upon returning to
the working world. First, you will get more interviews because you will stand out. Second, interviewers
bored in their own jobs will spend the entire meeting asking how you did it!

If there is any question of why you took a break or left your previous job, there is one answer that
cannot be countered: “I had a once-in-a-lifetime chance to do [exotic and envy-producing experience]
and couldn’t turn it down. I figured that, with [20-40] years of work to go, what’s the rush?”

The Cheesecake Factor

Would you like me to give you a formula for success? It’s quite simple, really. Double your rate of
failure.

—THOMAS J. WATSON, founder of IBM

SUMMER 1999

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013951
