The quarterback gets three downs, and the batter three strikes, before they go back
to the bench. Some nepotism directs healthier mothers to invest in more and
healthier offspring, and sicker ones conversely, long enough to demonstrate which
is really which. Males passing the test carry the signs to prove it. Females choose
them to spread the antidote gene to the whole population. Losing genes and losing

parasites retreat until their time comes again.

Summary

This chapter trades my wannabe economist hat for my wannabe biologist one.
Herbert Spencer called those fields the same at bottom. I never read Spencer, and
know him mostly from Bertrand Russell’s books on the history of philosophy.
Spencer rates a subchapter there. Yet he was an autodidact with less training in
either field than mine. He even had less training in philosophy than mine. He was a
philosopher all the same, by Russell’s tough standards, and knew that logic comes
first. Data eventually prove their worth when it’s time to test. The data I’ve found
fits net generation theory more or less. What I really have on, all the while, is my

wannabe philosopher hat.

Popperians make no sense. Are we supposed to find that a rose is not a rose? Or that
all reasoning from definition is as transparent as that example? Wiles’ proof of
Fermat’s last theorem ended a search that took some pretty bright minds three
centuries. My best guess would be that Popperians confuse the concepts of logic and
question-begging. They are opposite. Logic (reasoning from definition) means
taking out no more than you put in. Truism or tautology usually means obvious
examples of the same, but sometimes includes subtle ones too. Question-begging

means taking out what you never put in’.

? Circularity is question-begging which claims to take out as inference what it put in as assumption.
Assumption that Socrates is a man and that all men are mortal does not confirm that Socrates is a
man. It confirms that Socrates is mortal if assumptions are sound.

Chapter 7 Petty’s Idea 2/3/16 28

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011087
