Men tend to find elaborate social relations boring. If there is no pleasure in observing and empathizing with
people, one will not have good social cognition.

IQ is not the only meaningful difference. Chinese pay an inordinate amount of attention to authority. I suspect
historically., the authorities tended to kill them a lot if they did not. Jews tend be intellectually independent and
anti-authoritarian, which might make them creative and inventive in ways that are hard to find in Asia.

At the moment, I think speed/quality of brain development plus motivational system are the key to
understanding both mind and individual differences. Important part of human language might be the result in a
motivational need to discover/invent grammatical structure, which as a side effect makes us interested in
music.

It would mean that Chomsky’s life long hypothesis, that people have a special circuit for grammatical
language, is wrong. They might be GENERAL learners, just like Gorillas, but with a strong motivational urge
to build grammatical structure, which the brain simply invents (there are only a few ways in which a natural
language can work). That is much easier to wire into a brain than a specific circuit.

imy self believe that african music, westrn music , chinese music are a window into the the structure of those
layers. . western rigid, african primitve , chinese nature based,. I belive that synphoic movments best
describe your layering. they open with a basic simple melody, , after it is learned , it is repeated and 
developed , inverted, distorted, related, etc. the development stage take a long time. then there is a
recapitlaltion of the whole. and its inter and intra actions. . african musci has lots of beats. and little
development. -no accident, it mirrors their learning process.

Interesting question if music is somehow indicative of genetically defined prefs, but I am not sure. It could be
path effects, starting in culture.

re taboo
, maybe climate change is a good way of dealing with overpopulation. . the earths forest fire. potentailly
a good thing for the species

Making having children expensive in terms of upbringing and missed opportunity (like in the west) is a more
humane way. Environmental stress while leaving near rock bottom tends to lead people to have more children,
because there is no missed opportunity, and high mortality requires more attempts at procreation. Humans are a
hardy species, outside of focused famine events and wars only small fractions of any given population die.

I suspect that strong reductions in population will come from large-scale failure of agriculture. The climate
change itself with result in migration and wars, but most people will probably survive that. But who knows, I
might be wrong.

too many people, so many mass executions of the elderly and infirm make sense
is the fundamental fact that everyone dies at some time .make it imporrisbole to ask so why not earilier. if
the brain discards unused neurons , why shold socieity keep their equivalent

The radical idea of treating individuals in a society as cells and the society itself as a well-organized organism
is fascism, or course. Probably the most efficient and rationally stringent way of governance, if someone could
pull it off in a sustainable way; and if it is aggressive and expansive, its efficiency makes it a virus that

everybody will want to stomp out. Fascism makes romantic doo-gooders like me very uncomfortable (I visited

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026394
