regime of a schizophrenic break down, critical slowing can be both global and literal
as the patient freezes in catatonic postures.

In the neighborhood of the bifurcation set, big jumps in the stock index, up or
down, are possible under almost the same surrounding conditions. This stock
analyst-humbling phenomenon is called bimodality. Jimmy Swaggert’s Saturdays
were often spent watching the show at naked dance parlors and buying videos at
the pornography shops of Metairie Highway near Schwegmann’s Grocery outside
New Orleans. Sundays found him on national television engaged with infectiously
real, transcendent experiences in the public arena of the pulpit. The ecstatic
congregation was deeply moved by his eloquent and tearful sermons about sin and
salvation. Counter to most suspicions, this is less conscious fakery than the
genuinely felt alternating states intrinsic to the bimodality in neighborhoods of
spiritually unstable, born again transitions.

Similarly, beginning with nearly the same initial values near the boundary of
the bifurcation set, very similar motions lead to dramatically different results. This
counter-intuitive behavior has been called divergence. At UCLA’s Neuropsychiatric
Institute, | interviewed a pair of lively teenage, genetically identical male twins raised
by a loving family in Los Angeles’s Valley. One was president of his high school
class, a Sunday school nursery school volunteer and a Saturday soup server to the
poor. The other twin sold pot and cocaine to support his habit. Deep and potentially
dark mysteries live in these spiritual bifurcation sets. They leave us pondering child
sexual abuse by deeply religious clergy and the massacre by mass suicide of a
New Christian congregation by James Jones. We wonder why it is that
fundamentalists (Jewish, Christian and Muslim) have the most ecstatic and direct
validating experiences of God and do the most shooting and bombing of other
people. In Burt Lancaster's portrayal of bifurcation set dweller, Elmer Gantry,
charismatic believer and exploitative psychopath, were simultaneous and both
credibly real.

Another feature of the occupancy of this bifurcation region in control space is
that the values producing a sudden jump that occur passing through going one way

along the “normal” dimension usually jump back much further along when moving

60

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013560
