A

>

KR
I

P

ELL
TAL Cannabis Investment Report | December 2017

Other Risks to Companies in the Cannabis Industry

¢ The cannabis industry is extremely competitive in most segments, with certain companies hav-
ing unique competitive advantages such as greater capital resources, first-mover advantage, more
scalable business models and greater brand recognition.

¢ To date, the research conducted on cannabinoid-derived pharmaceuticals and other cannabis-
based therapies is limited. There is no assurance that cannabinoid-derived pharmaceuticals or
other medical products will prove effective in treating medical conditions or achieve broad mar-
ket acceptance.

* Given the emerging nature of the cannabis industry, there is a scarcity of qualified personnel with
deep industry experience and significant competition for such qualified personnel. Many canna-
bis companies may not be successful in attracting, training, integrating, motivating or retaining
qualified management teams and other personnel.

¢ Cannabis is an agricultural product. The occurrence of diseases, insects, pests, mold and other
infestations and severe adverse environmental conditions, such as fire, drought, hail, flood or
frost, is unpredictable, may have a potentially devastating impact on agricultural production of
cannabis and may otherwise adversely affect the supply of cannabis.

¢ The cannabis industry is particularly vulnerable to rapidly changing technology, government
regulation and relatively high risks of obsolescence caused by scientific and technological
advances. The success of cannabis companies will depend in part on their ability to anticipate
market, legal, technological and other trends in the industry. Many cannabis companies will fail
to accurately identify or predict industry trends.

* Cannabis laws and regulations in jurisdictions outside the United States vary widely and, in
some cases, are as complex, contradictory and rapidly changing as those within the United States.
Cannabis companies operating outside the country’s borders are subject to risks related to the
unsettled legal environment applicable to cannabis.

¢ Due to federal controls on cannabis within the United States and similar restrictions in many
jurisdictions outside the country, there is a significant black market for cannabis products.
Government-regulated cannabis businesses face competition from black market participants and
are subject to different market forces than those of the black market.

168 © 2017 Ackrell Capital, LLC | Member FINRA/SIPC

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024804
