Edwards adv. Epstein
Case No.: 502009CA040800XXXXMBAG
Second Renewed Motion for Leave to Assert Claim for Punitive Damages

record evidence. From the beginning, Edwards diligently represented three victims of sexual
assaults perpetrated by Epstein. As explained in detail below, each and every one of Edwards’s
litigation decisions was grounded in proper litigation judgment about the need to pursue effective
discovery against Epstein, particularly in the face of Epstein’s stonewalling tactics. Edwards’s
successful representation finally forced Epstein to settle and pay appropriate damages. Effective
and proper representation of child victims who have been repeatedly sexually assaulted cannot
form the basis of a separate, “satellite” lawsuit, and therefore Edwards is entitled to summary
- Judgment on-these grounds-as well: . er ee lee
~~~ The truth-is the record:is entirely devoid-of-any-evidence to support Epstein’s claims-and ~~ -~
is completely and consistently corroborative of Edwards’s sworn assertion of innocence. Put
simply, Epstein made allegations that have no basis in fact. To the contrary, his lawsuit was
‘merely a desperate measure by a serial pedophile to prevent being held accountable for
repeatedly sexually abusing minor females. Epstein’s ulterior motives in filing and prosecuting
this lawsuit are blatantly obvious. Epstein's behavior is another clear demonstration that he feels
he lives above the law and that because of his wealth he can manipulate the system and pay for
lawyers to do his dirty work - even to the extent of having them assert baseless claims against
other members of the Florida Bar. Every one of Epstein’s Complaints against Edwards was
nothing short of a far-fetched fictional fairy-tale with absolutely no evidence whatsoever to
support his preposterous claims. It was his last ditch effort to escape the public disclosure by

Edwards and his clients of the nature, extent, and sordid details of Epstein’s life as a serial child

molester,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013400
