suggest policies about apprenticeships, enlist business in a partnership with government,
and help with the opioid epidemic. It was, in other words, business as usual, albeit with a
new burst of enthusiasm for the administrative state.

But its real import was that it gave Kushner his own internal White House staff, a team
of people working not just on Kushner-supported projects—all largely antithetical to
Bannon projects—but, more broadly, as Kushner explained to one staffer, “on expanding
my footprint.” Kushner even got his own “comms person,” a dedicated spokesperson and
Kushner promoter. It was a bureaucratic build-out meant not only to enhance Kushner but
to diminish Steve Bannon.

Two days after the announcement about Jared’s expanded power base, Ivanka was
formally given a White House job, too: adviser to the president. From the beginning she
had been a key adviser to her husband—and he to her. Still, it was an overnight
consolidation of Trump family power in the White House. It was, quite at Steve Bannon’s
expense, a remarkable bureaucratic coup: a divided White House had now all but been
united under the president’s family.

His son-in-law and daughter hoped—they were even confident—that they could speak
to DJT’s better self, or at least balance Republican needs with progressive rationality,
compassion, and good works. Further, they could support this moderation by routing a
steady stream of like-minded CEOs through the Oval Office. And, indeed, the president
seldom disagreed with and was often enthusiastic about the Jared and Ivanka program. “If
they tell him the whales need to be saved, he’s basically for it,” noted Katie Walsh.

But Bannon, suffering in his internal exile, remained convinced that he represented
what Donald Trump actually believed, or, more accurately, what the president felt. He
knew Trump to be a fundamentally emotional man, and he was certain that the deepest
part of him was angry and dark. However much the president wanted to support his
daughter and her husband’s aspirations, their worldview was not his. As Walsh saw it,
“Steve believes he is Darth Vader and that Trump is called to the dark side.”

Indeed, Trump’s fierce efforts to deny Bannon’s influence may well have been in
inverse proportion to the influence Bannon actually had.

The president did not truly listen to anybody. The more you talked, the less he listened.
“But Steve is careful about what he says, and there is something, a timbre in his voice and
his energy and excitement, that the president can really hone in on, blocking everything
else out,” said Walsh.

As Jared and Ivanka were taking a victory lap, Trump signed Executive Order 13783, a
change in environmental policy carefully shepherded by Bannon, which, he argued,
effectively gutted the National Environmental Policy Act, the 1970 law that served as the
foundation of modern environmental protections and that required all executive agencies
to prepare environmental impact statements for agency actions. Among other impacts, EO

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020019
