Zul

would not be on Snowden’s side of the divide (and the Snowden breach ended the career of many
of them, including General Alexander.)

But political leaders in both parties could also be found on the anti-Snowden side of the divide.
“T don’t look at this as being a whistle-blower.” Senator Dianne Feinstein (D. - Calif.), the head
of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said after she was briefed on Snowden's theft of documents.
I think it’s an act of treason. Rep. Mike Rogers, (R.-Mich.), her counterpart on the House
Intelligence Committee, said on the NBC program, “Meet the Press,” that Snowden might be
working for a foreign intelligence service. And a former prominent member of President Obama's
cabinet went even further, suggesting to me off the record in March this year that there are only
three possible explanations for the Snowden heist: 1) It was a Russian espionage operation; 2) It
was a Chinese espionage operation, or 3) It was a joint Sino-Russian operation. These severe
accusations generated much heat but little light. They were not accompanied by any evidence
from these Congressional leaders showing that Snowden had acted in concert with any foreign
power in stealing the files or, for that matter, that he was not acting out of his own personal
convictions, not matter how misguided they may have been.

On this side of the divide, Snowden's critics regard the whistle blowing narrative as at best
incomplete, and at worst fodder for the naive. They point out that the FISA document that gave
him credentials as a whistle-blower was only issued in the last week of April 2013, which was
three months after he first contacted Greenwald and almost 9 months after he began illegally
copying secret documents. They further believe that the evidence contradicts Snowden’s claims
that he stole only documents that exposed NSA transgression into domestic surveillance, that he
turned over all the stolen documents to journalists, and that he was forced to remain in Moscow
by the actions of the US government. They believe that all three of these claims, which are at the
conceptual basis of the whistle blowing story, are false. They also find that the unprecedented
size and complexity of the penetration of NSA files, compromising hundreds of thousands of
secret documents pertaining to US operations against adversary nations, according to the NSA’s
and Pentagon estimates, does not afford an innocent explanation for the volume of files he took.

The deep split in how Snowden is perceived brings to mind the famous drawing of a duck

-rabbit cartoon first published in 1900 in the book Fact and Fable in Psychology. The figure is
perceived either as a duck or as a rabbit but it cannot be seen as both simultaneously. Whether a
person sees a rabbit or duck in this test may depend on the information available to that person.
For example, if the person has never seen an image of a rabbit before, he will see almost certainly
see a duck; and vice versa.

Similarly, what may account for the sharp divide between the Snowden and anti-Snowden
camps is a disparity in the available information. The pro-Snowden camp's view is largely
informed by Snowden himself. It prefers to believe his words over his actions.

In the anti-Snowden camp are administration officials and the members of the House and Senate
intelligence oversight committees who have been at least partially briefed on the continuing
investigations of the Snowden affair. The members of the Senate Intelligence Committee, for
example, were briefed by David Leatherwood, the director of operations of the Defense

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020179
