Page 10 of 42
103 Minn. L. Rev. 844, *861

When resource constraints remain, however, they force officials to choose which cases get priority. That creates more
opportunity for biases and favoritism to play a role in determining which cases to charge and which to forgo. That is especially
so with crimes in which evidence development is more costly, so officials have to decide whether to invest scarce resources in
those that require substantial investigative efforts. Both sexual assault and police violence cases often require larger-scale
investments to develop evidence sufficient for prosecution. Failures to make those investments are common reasons for non-

prosecution in both contexts. >?

Il. MECHANISMS OF PROSECUTORIAL ACCOUNTABILITY

For a range of reasons and across a range of contexts, public prosecutors’ failures to enforce criminal law have been of
sufficient concern to lead contemporary justice systems to devise checks against unjustified underenforcement. Approaches
take three basic forms: (1) limited authority for private parties to initiate or participate in criminal prosecutions; (2) independent
review of initial non-prosecution decisions, upon petition from a [*862] victim; and (3) multiple, mdependent public
prosecution agencies with independent authority to bring charges for the same wrongdoing. Outside the United States, the first
two options predominate; their expansion in recent years is a direct consequence of broader reforms to expand crime victims'
rights. °° U.S. jurisdictions, however, rely almost wholly on the third model. Despite having adopted otherwise expansive
victims’ rights laws in recent decades in response to an influential movement for crime victims' rights, state and federal laws
consistently and explicitly avoid granting any formal authority to private parties, or courts, over criminal charging. The next
three Sections provide an overview of these options, where they exist. Largely with regard to U.S. policy choices only, they
also suggest reasons that one model prevailed over others.

A. Victim Rights and Private Versus Public Interests

In the wake of victims’ rights movements in North America and Europe, crime victims now have an array of legal nights once
criminal charges are filed. Victims in the U.S. and European jurisdictions now commonly have rights to participate that include
rights to consult with prosecutors, to be notified of and present at court proceedings, and to offer statements at stages such as
hearings on bail, sentencing, and parole. ©!

48 See Daniel Duane, Is It O.K. to Kill Cyclists?, N.Y. Times (Nov. 9, 2013), hitps:/Avww.nytimes.com/2013/11/10/opinion/sundav/is-it-ok-
to-kill-cyclists html (discussing failures to prosecute motor vehicle drivers who injure or kill bicyclists); see also BikeMaps.org,
hittps://bikemaps.org (last visited Oct. 30, 2018) (displaying a crowd-sourced map of locations of cyclist injuries and fatalities).

49 See John F. Decker, Don't Forget to Wear Your Hunter Orange (or Flack Jacket): A Critique on the Lack of Prosecution of Hunting
Accidents, 56.S.C. L. Rev. 135, 166-73 (2004).

© See id.; Duane, supra note 48.

5! Eisenberg, supra note 45, at 893-96 (discussing data from prosecutor interviews). In the contexts Eisenberg describes, prosecutors
typically forgo hate-crime offenses in favor of other charges rather than declining to prosecute altogether. Though the focus here is on
prosecutors, they may not be the key cause of underenforcement. For similar reasons, police may not investigate or arrest in such cases, or if
they do prosecution can be undermined by lax evidence-gathering. Police practices are the focus on much of the scholarship on
underenforcement of certain offenses. Much of the literature on inadequate enforcement of sexual assault crimes focuses on weaknesses in
the police rather than prosecutors. See, e.g., Tuerkheimer, supra note 28, at 1292-99 (discussing evidence of police bias).

2 See, e.g., Alan Blinder, Michael Slager, Officer in Walter Scott Shooting, Gets 20-Year Sentence, N.Y. Times (Dec. 7, 2017),
https ://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/07/us/michael-slager-sentence-walter-scott.html (explaining that an officer pled guilty in federal court
after a 2016 prosecution in state court ended with a hung jury).

3 See Natapoff, supra note 28.

4 See, e.g., id.

% See U.S. Dep't of Justice, United States Attorneys' Manual § 9-27.230 cmt. 1 (1997) (recognizing limited prosecution resources); see also
Human Rights Watch, supra note 22, at 99 (listing lack of investigative or prosecutorial resources among the most common reasons noted

by the federal Civil Rights Division for declining to prosecute); U.S. Dep't of Justice, FY 2013 Performance Budget: Civil Rights Division 39
(noting that strengthening of civil rights enforcement efforts under the Vulnerable People Priority policy has been reversed because full

DAVID SCHOEN

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016519
