THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA

PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)

ARTINEO

http://www.artinfo.com/news/story/36017/artinfo-uks-guide-to-frieze-week-2010

ARTINFO UK's Guide to Frieze Week 2010

By Coline Milliard, ARTINFO UK
Published: October 11, 2010

LONDON— Frieze Week is upon us! Europe's largest contemporary art fair has staked its tent in Regent’s Park,
bringing with it an estimated $375 million in work by brand-name artists and emerging talents alike, and London
is seething with exhibitions and events to welcome the collectors, tastemakers, and various art grandees
descending on the city. What to see? Where to go? ARTINFO UK has a few recommendations.

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13 With still two days to go before Frieze Art Fair opens to the public, today is the perfect
day to indulge in a bit of London tourism, mixing in visits to the city's West End galleries. Stroll down Piccadilly
and stop at Thomas Dane Gallery, on Duke Street, for the Kelley Walker exhibition. On Heddon Street — a
continental oasis at the heart of Central London — Aicon Gallery has put together an excellent exhibition
retracing artist and thinker Rasheed Araeen’s first fifteen years of production, beginning in 1959. Two other good
shows on the same street are Paola Pivi at Carlson and Jimmie Durham at Sprovieri. You can also discover Sadie
Coles’ new space in New Burlington Place, inaugurated with an exhibition of Urs Fisher’s sculptures.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14 You’ve done Tate Britain, do you really need to go to Tate Modern? Of course you do.
First, the newly opened Gauguin exhibition is stunning and simply impossible to miss (it has been described by
the Times as the show of the season — in fact of the whole year). Second, the new commission by Ai Weiwei,
was recently unveiled in Turbine Hall. You can then head north to enjoy Fergus Henderson’s English cuisine at St.
John Bar & Restaurant in Smithfield, before wandering to ROKEBY for their exhibition of German-born, London-
based artist Bettina Buck.

Today is also a good day to see The House of the Noble Man, an exhibition curated by artist Wolfe von
Lenkiewicz and Russian curator Victoria Golembiovskayan. It includes a Cézanne, £6 million ($9.6 million) worth of
Picasso, as well as pieces by Damien Hirst, Christian Boltanski, Andy Warhol, Gerhard Richter, and many more —
all in the historical setting of Cornwall Terrace as it overlooks Regent’s Park. (This event is by appointment only at
Boswell House, 2 Cornwall Terrace, Regents Park, London NW1. To arrange a visit, register at:
http://www.cornwallterrace.co.uk/boswallhouse/).

16

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028296
