UK equities

Preference: neutral

FTSE 100 (24 Oct): 5,805 (last publication: 5,768)
UBS View FTSE 100 (6-month target): 5,850
¢ We keep our neutral stance on UK equities. Earnings have continued to disappoint, showing one of the
weakest dynamics within our market universe. Commodity related sectors show steep earnings declines,
which is expected to moderate only in a lagged fashion to stabilizing commodity prices. The Healthcare
sector suffers from company specific issues which affect earnings also negatively.
¢ With the oil price expected to trade down over the next 3 months, earnings of companies in the energy
sector - comprising about 20% of the market — should remain depressed over the coming quarters. Within
financials, law suits related to mis-selling of insurance related products represent a special risk factor.
e Recent strengthening of the British pound is also a headwind for the competitiveness of UK companies,
as earnings measured in the local currency are negatively affected.
¢ The PE of UK equities looks attractive at first sight. But over the past 10 years, UK equities traded on
average at a discount to global equities.

A Positive scenario FTSE 100 (6-month target): 7,000
e A fast strengthening in global growth and recovering demand from emerging markets leads to fast rising
commodity prices, helping the Energy and Materials sectors to lead the market higher. The market could
re-rate to a P/E multiple of 13.0x, and we would expect earnings growth of 5-10% over 12 months.

& Negative scenario FTSE 100 (6-month target): 4,750
¢ A global recession drags UK earnings down by 15-20% over 12 months. The market's traditionally
defensive characteristics would only partly offset its strong exposure to commodity-related sectors. We
would expect the trailing P/E multiple to drop towards 10x.

Note: Scenarios refer to global economic scenarios (see slide 7)

What we're
watching

Why it matters

Growth indicators Business survey indicators provide information on economic development in the

UK. Key date: 1 Nov, PMI manufacturing; 5 Nov, PMI services
Energy and Materials together comprise about 30% of the UK market according

to market capitalization. Developments in commodity prices affect earnings
estimates.

Commodity prices

Policy action Loose monetary policy by the Bank of England supports equities. Key date:

8 Nov, Bank of England policy meeting

2 UBS

Recommendations

Tactical (6 months)

e The UK offers an attractive 4% dividend
yield. We still like companies with high
quality income streams.

e We like Consumer Staples in the UK. The
sector should provide steady earnings
growth through its exposure to
emerging markets.

Strategic (1 to 2 years)

e The UK market's close to 4% dividend
yield provides a good income stream.

e¢ Companies with pricing power are
expected to deliver superior earnings
growth.

UK market trades at a P/E discount,
based on realized earnings

24

2003 2006 2009 2012

— FTSE 100: realized PIE MSCI World: realized PIE

Source: Thomson Reuters, UBS, as of October 24, 2012

Note: Past performance is not an indication of future returns.

For further information please contact ClO asset class specialist Markus Irngartinger, markus.irngartinger@ubs.com 16

Please see important disclaimer and disclosures at the end of the document.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025263
