If I offered you $10,000,000 to work 24 hours a day for 15 years and then retire, would you do it? Of
course not—you couldn’t. It is unsustainable, just as what most define as a career: doing the same thing
for 8+ hours per day until you break down or have enough cash to permanently stop.

How else can my 30-year-old friends all look like a cross between Donald Trump and Joan Rivers?
It’s horrendous— premature aging fueled by triple bypass frappuccinos and impossible workloads.

Alternating periods of activity and rest is necessary to survive, let alone thrive. Capacity, interest, and
mental endurance all wax and wane. Plan accordingly.

The NR aims to distribute “mini-retirements” throughout life instead of hoarding the recovery and
enjoyment for the fool’s gold of retirement. By working only when you are most effective, life is both
more productive and more enjoyable. It’s the perfect example of having your cake and eating it, too.

Personally, I now aim for one month of overseas relocation or high-intensity learning (tango, fighting,
whatever) for every two months of work projects.

3. Less Is Not Laziness.

Doing less meaningless work, so that you can focus on things of greater personal importance, is NOT
laziness. This is hard for most to accept, because our culture tends to reward personal sacrifice instead of
personal productivity.

Few people choose to (or are able to) measure the results of their actions and thus measure their
contribution in time. More time equals more self-worth and more reinforcement from those above and
around them. The NR, despite fewer hours in the office, produce more meaningful results than the next
dozen non-NR combined.

Let’s define “laziness” anew—to endure a non-ideal existence, to let circumstance or others decide life
for you, or to amass a fortune while passing through life like a spectator from an office window. The size
of your bank account doesn’t change this, nor does the number of hours you log in handling unimportant
e-mail or minutiae.

Focus on being productive instead of busy.

4. The Timing Is Never Right.

I once asked my mom how she decided when to have her first child, little ol’ me. The answer was
simple: “It was something we wanted, and we decided there was no point in putting it off. The timing is
never right to have a baby.” And so it is.

For all of the most important things, the timing always sucks. Waiting for a good time to quit your
job? The stars will never align and the traffic lights of life will never all be green at the same time. The
universe doesn’t conspire against you, but it doesn’t go out of its way to line up all the pins either.
Conditions are never perfect. “Someday” is a disease that will take your dreams to the grave with you.
Pro and con lists are just as bad. If it’s important to you and you want to do it “eventually,” just do it and
correct course along the way.

5. Ask for Forgiveness, Not Permission.

If it isn’t going to devastate those around you, try it and then justify it. People—whether parents,
partners, or bosses—deny things on an emotional basis that they can learn to accept after the fact. If the
potential damage is moderate or in any way reversible, don’t give people the chance to say no. Most
people are fast to stop you before you get started but hesitant to get in the way if you’re moving. Get
good at being a troublemaker and saying sorry when you really screw up.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013820
