wow oma Ho Pw nd

NNN NNN BB Be OH Be Be Be oe Be oH
“RW NF OO OIA OR WN FO

oils and towels?

“Answer: Yes, ma'am.

Question: And did you ever have occasion
to go upstairs and clean up after the massages?

Answer: Yeah, uh-huh.

“Question: Did you ever find any
vibrators in that area?

“Answer: Yes. I told him yes.

Question: Would you describe for me what
kinds of vibrators you found?

Answer: I'm not too familiar with the
names, but they were like big dildos, what they
call the big rubber things like that
(indicating). And I used to go and put my
gloves on and pick them up, put them in the
sink, rinse it off and put it in Ms. Maxwell --
Ms, Maxwell had in her closet, she had like a
laundry basket. And you put laundry in. She
have full of those toys.”

Is that testimony that exonerates you,

Mr. Dershowitz? Is that what you were referring to?

MR. SCOTT: Let me -- objection to the
form, improper cross examination by taking
excerpts out of depositions of witnesses.

wo ont HU FP WD

NNNNN FPP BP BP ee PB BB
BWNF OM MO YH UM PWN O

279

is a third-year student at Harvard, were all there
with me. That was the only time that I stayed over
more than one night. And I never stayed even onc
night during the relevant timeframe.

But most importantly, he gives no
timeframe. And clearly his reference to the sex
toys is a reference to the part of the house that I
was never permitted in and never entered.

Q. What is the question that you think you
were answering?
A. Whether --

MR. SCOTT: He was explaining to you
exactly why he felt that that was
inappropriate, which is exactly what you asked
him.

MR. SCAROLA: No, it is not.
MR. SCOTT: Well, it is my recollection,
so I don't know --
MR. SCAROLA: Well, then --
MR. SCOTT: 1| think he was defending --
MR. SCAROLA: Let me try the same question
over again.
MR. SCOTT: I think he was defending
his -- his position.
THE WITNESS: Right.

278

BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. Is it your contention that that testimony,
under oath, of your friend, Mr. Epstein's staff
person, exonerates yon?

A. First, a little background. Mr. Alessi
was fired for theft of material from Mr. Epstein, so
Mr. Alessi was not on a friendly basis with Jeffrey
Epstein.

Second, the description of the dildos and
sex toys clearly refers to the area of the house
that | was never in, the area of Ms. Maxwell's room,
rather than the area of the room that I stayed in.

Third, he gives no timeframe for the
visits.

And, fourth, he certainly didn't in any
way confirm that | was there while Virginia Roberts
was there. His answer was simply that | was there
from time to time. He's wrong about that. During
the relevant timeframe, I was never in the house.

And even taking outside the relevant
timeframe, the only time I was in the house for more
than one day was when my family, my wife, my son, my
daughter-in-law, my then probably seven or
eight-year-old granddaughter, who just graduated
Harvard, and my probably four-year-old grandson, who

BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. The question was: Is that part of the
time that you claim exonerates you?

A. Well, I think if you read the whole
testimony, it clearly exonerates me and | think that
part of the testimony in no way inculpates me and no
reasonable person reading that could use that as a
basis for making allegations that I had sexual
encounters or misconduct with Virginia Roberts.

So, when -- if that's the best testimony
that your unprofessional clients relied on, then
clearly that exonerates me.

Again, the absence of evidence is evidence
of absence. And the very idea that this is seen as
some basis for concluding that I had sexual
encounters with -- with Virginia Roberts, why wasn't
he asked did he ever see me have a massage by
Virginia Roberts? Did he ever see me have a sexual
encounter with Virginia Roberts? Did he ever go to
the room I was staying in and find any sex toys?

The answers to all those questions, if
truthful, would be no.

Q. What was Mr. Alessi's motive against you?
You've told us he was fired by Jeffrey Epstein, so
he may have had some motive against Mr, Epstein.

26 (Pages 277 to 280)

www.phippsreporting.com
(888) 811-3408

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010808
