The Brain 99

The wiring of our brain looks a bit like the logic circuits of a
computer, and our best guess is the cells in our brain form some kind of
computer. The brain cells — a specialized form of nerve cell — connect to
the rest of the body via the nerve cells that largely run down our spine.
Thoughts trigger action and, in reverse, the nerves in our extremities
sense things in the environment and relay information back to the
brain. If I think, ‘move my finger’ my finger will move, and if it touches
something I will feel the sensation. Interestingly if my finger touches
something hot a reflex will kick in. Reflexes work without involving the
brain. We don’t have to think, “that hurts” Instead, our finger reflexively
pulls away. We may say ouch, but by the time we do, our fingers already
moved away from the heat.

Nerve cells are much slower than the electronic systems we build
with copper and silicon. This speed is quite noticeable and limits the
rate we can do certain things. It takes around 0.08 seconds for a nerve
impulse to run down to the tips of our fingers, initiate an action and
return to give us the sensation of the action. This may sound fast but if
you're a tennis player in a rally or a pianist faced with a fast passage, the
nerves don't have time to make a full round trip signal before the next
action must be initiated. In these instances we need to run on autopilot
and there are parts of the body where the nervous system takes action
without the brain getting involved. This is particularly the case with
things like walking and balance, which must respond fast to changes in
ground conditions. The signals just don’t have time — and don’t need — to
go all the way up to the top of the body for instructions. Rather like the
heat reflex above, the peripheral nervous system can process information
locally. After all, brain cells and nerve cells are really all one type of cell.

If you have a group of people, you can conduct a fun experiment
to show the speed of nerves. Hold hands in a big circle and squeeze the
hand of the person next to you. When they feel you squeeze, they should
squeeze the next person’s hand and so on. The rate at which people
squeeze hands around the circle is limited by the speed at which nerves
conduct the signals across our bodies.

Imaging the Brain

There are several ways to look inside the brain without recourse to a bone
saw. The methods are fascinating in their own right, even before we start
looking at the results. Each image is generated using a different physical
principle.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015789
