rules. Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited, Frankfurt Branch (BAMLI Frankfurt) distribu
This research report has been prepared and issued by MLPF&S and/or one or more of its non-US affilia
responsibility for research reports of its non-US affiliates distributed to MLPF&S clients in the US. Any

es this report in Germany and is regulated by BaFin.
tes. MLPF&S is the distributor of this research report in the US and accepts full
US person receiving this research report and wishing to effect any transaction in any

security discussed in the report should do so through MLPF&S and not such foreign affiliates. Hong Kong recipients of this research report should contact Merrill Lynch (Asia Pacific) Limited in

respect of any matters relating to dealing in securi

ies (and not futures contracts} or

provision of speci

ic advice on securities (and not futures contracts). Singapore recipients of this research

report should contact Merrill Lynch International Bank Limited (Merchant Bank) and/or Merrill Lynch (Singapore) Pte Ltd in respect of any matters arising from, or in connection with, this

research report.
General

persona
financial
that sta
security or the in

deposits or other
among others, m
instruments may
income from suc

lose their entire principal inves
Futures and options are not ap
disclosure documents. Investmen

BofA Merrill Lyne

action may be limited by regulations p
executing any short idea contained in
Foreign currency rates of exchange may adversely affect

effectively assume

UK Readers: The protections provided
located outside of the United Kingdom. BofA Merrill Lyne
MLPF&S or one of its affiliates is a regular issuer of traded financial instru
time, hold a trading position (long or short) in the securiti
BofA Merrill Lynch, through business units other than Bo
with, and reach different conclusions from, the information presented in
@ persons who prepared them, and BofA
is report.
hat the recipient received this report pursuant to a contract
PF&S may be deemed to be acting as an investment adviser, such status relates, if at all, solely to the
beyond the delivery of this report (unless otherwise agreed specifically in
ncluding transactions in any securities mentioned in this re
d General Information regarding Research Reports:

6 Bank of America Corporation. All rights reserved. This research report is prepared for the use of Bo
disclosed, in whole or in part, or in any form or manner, without the express written consent of BofA Merrill Lynch.
bsites and other portals by BofA Merrill Lynch and are not pu
constitutes your agreement not to redistribute, retransmit, or disclose to others the con
ions, estimates or price targets) without first obtaining expressed permiss
Materials prepared by BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research personnel are ba
nown to, professionals in other business areas of BofA Merri
errill Lynch Global Research and certain business groups. As a resul
rts. Totl

methods of th
recipient of th
In the event tl
therewith ML

transactions, i
Copyright an
Copyright 20

and client we

recommenda

information k
BofA
researc
hould
ny Bo
n pub

h repo
consu

S
al
O
Pp
This re
ities. None of
Research po

ormation re

The in

ned on such
iliation with

contai
anya

submitting any personal information to them. BofA Merrill Lynch is not responsib

All opinions, projec

obligations o
arket risk, cou
be difficult to va
h securities and other financial instruments, if any, may fluctuate and

ic information
rofessionals in other busi

containing suc

‘ax advice based
ormation herein
may contain links to tl

Investment Related Disclosures:

Taiwan Readers: Neither the information nor any |
this report may be used or reproduced or quoted in any manner whatsoever in Taiwan by t
This research report provides general information only. Neither the information nor any op
other financial instrument or any derivative related
investment advice and it does not take in
advice regarding the a
ements regarding futu
ormation in tl

ne

an

nterp

men
propri

currency risk.

. Fac

MLPF&S, any of i
icy prohibits rese
h rating, recom
ating to the tax s

(o
hird-
hird-party websi
BofA Merrill Lyne!

jons and estimat

ue or sell and re

rad

o account the specific investmen

ppropriateness of investing in financial instruments and

tory institution (inc
k and liquidity risk.
iable information about the value

uding, Bank o
arty default ris

. Past performance is not necessa
iate for all investors. Such financia

rily a guide to

rohibiting or restricting shortse
his report.
he value, price or Income o

h Global Researc|

es and financial

errill Lynch is un

writing by
port.

blicly-avail

I Lynch, in

t their own legal advisers as to issues of law relating to the subject matter of this report. BofA Merrill Lynch Globa
‘A Merrill Lynch entity and/or its directors, officers and employees may be plaintif
§ and views presented in this material that rela

e to anys

s affiliates or their research analysts has any au
arch personnel from disclosing a recommenciati
mendation or investment thesis.

atus of financial instruments discussed herein i

on their particular circumstances from an independent tax pro
her than disclosure information relating to BofA Merrill Ly
party websites. BofA Merrill Lynch is not responsible for t

es is not part of this report and is not incorpora

e
es constitute the judgment of the author as of

pinion expressed herein constitutes an offer or aso

h policies relating to conflicts of interes

between the recipient and MLPF&S for t

sed on public i

to
im

fA

a
risks related to the securi
hat price or value of such

or

fu

priate at all times. Costs o

f any security or financial ins

MLPF&S). MLPF&S is and continues to ac

‘A Merrill Ly
BofA Merri
able materials. Any unauthorized use or dis
ents, opinions, conclusion, or informat
ion from an authorized officer of BofA

cluding investment banking personnel. Bo

icitation of an offer to transact in any securities or o
he press or any other person without the express written consent of BofA Merrill Lynch.

inion expressed constitutes an offer or an invitation to make an offer, to buy or sell any securities or
to such securities or instruments (e.g, options, futures, warrants, and contracts for differences}. This report is not intended to provide
bjectives, financial situation and the particular needs of any specific
plementing investment strategies discussed or recommended in
re prospects may not be realized. Any decision to purchase or subscribe for securities in any offering must be based solely on existing public information on such
prospectus or other offering document issued in connec
Securities and other financial instruments discussed in this report, or recommended, o
y Insured deposi

ion with such offering, and not on this report.
fered or sold by Merrill Lynch, are not insured by the Federal Deposi
merica, N.A.). Investments in general and, derivatives, in particular, in
jo security, finance!

by the U.K. regulatory regime, including the Financial Services Scheme, do not apply in general to business coordinated by BofA Merrill
are described at http://go.bofa.com/coi.

ments linked to securities that may have been recommended in this report. MLPF&S or one of its
instruments discussed in this report.
‘A Merrill Lynch Global Research, may have issued and may in the future issue trading ideas or recommendations that are inconsistent
his report. Such ideas or recommendations reflect the different time frames, assumptions, views and analytical

der no obligation to ensure that such other trading ideas or recommendations are brought to the a

nch clients and may not be redistributed, retransmitted or

Lynch research

errill Lynch.

nformation. Facts and views presented in this material

A Merrill Lynch

, BofA Merrill Lynch does not disclose certain client relationships wit
he extent this report discusses any legal proceeding or issues, it has not been prepared as nor is it intended to express any legal conclusion, opinion or advice. Investors

uch

essional.

proceedings have not been reviewed by, discussed with, and may not reflect in
ness areas of BofA Merrill Lynch in connection with the legal proceedings or matters relevant to such proceedings.
port has been prepared independently of any issuer of securities mentioned herein and not in connection with any proposed offering of securities or as agent of
hority whatsoever to make any representation or warranty on behalf of the issuer(s). Bo
on, investment rating, or investment thesis for review by an issuer prior to the pub

s not intended to provide tax advice or to be used by anyone to provide tax advice.

nch and its affiliates) was obtained from various sources and we do not guarantee i
he content of any third-party website or any linked content contained in a third-par
ed by reference into this report. The inclusion of a link in this report does not imply any
h. Access to any third-party website is at your own risk, and you should always review the terms and privacy policies at third-party websi
or such terms and privacy policies and expressly disclaims any liability for them.
he date of the report and are subject to change without notice. Prices also are su

closure is prohibited. Receipt and review of t
ion contained in this report (including any in

her financial instrument. No part of

person. Investors should seek
this report and should understand

Insurance Corporation and are not
volve numerous risks, including,

instrument or derivative is suitable for all investors. In some cases, securities and other financial
y or financial instrument may be difficult
securities and Instruments may rise or fal
ure performance. Levels and basis for taxation may change.

instruments may expire worthless. Before investing in futures or options, clients must receive the a
strategies explained in this report may not be appro}

‘0 obtain. Investors should note that
and, in some cases, investors may

ppropriate risk

such strategies do not include commission or margin expenses.
his aware that the implementation of the ideas expressed in this report may depend upon an investor's ability to short securities or other financial instruments and that such
ling in many jurisdictions. Investors are urged to seek advice regarding the applicability of such regu

ations prior to

rument mentioned in this report. Investors in such securities and instruments

Lynch entities

affiliates may, at any

tention of any

he provision of research services for a separate fee, and in connection
person with whom MLPF&S has contracted directly and does not extend
solely as a broker-dealer in connection with tl

he execution of any

reports are distributed simultaneously to internal
his research report

vestment

have not been reviewed by, and may not reflect
has established information barriers between
h, or compensation received from, such issuers in

Research personnel’s knowledge of legal proceedings in which
s, defendants, co-defendants or co-plaintiffs with or involving issuers mentioned in this report is based

ormation known to,

any issuer of any

A Merrill Lynch
ication of a research
nvestors are urged to
ts accuracy. This report
y website. Content

endorsement by or
es before

bject to change without

notice. BofA Merrill Lynch is under no obligation to update this report and BofA Merrill Lynch's ability to publish research on the subject issuer(s) in the future is subject to applicable quiet

periods. You should therefore assume that BofA Merrill Lynch will not update any
Certain outstanding reports may contain discussions and/or investment opinions
recent research report relating to an Issuer prior to making an investment decision.
In some cases, an issuer may be classified as Restricted or may be Under Review o
its security and/or financial instruments) to be suspended or withdrawn and shou
financial instruments) nor should the analyses or opinion(s) be considered a solici
solicit purchases of securities or financial instruments that are Restricted or Under Review and may only solicit securities under Extended Review in accordance with

re

d
a

act, circumstance or opinion contained in this report.
ating to securities, financial instruments and/or issuers that are no longer curren

r Extended Review. In each case, investors should consider any investment opinion
not rely on the analyses and investment opinion(s) pertaining to such issuer (or i

. Always refer to the most

relating to such issuer (or
s securities and/or

ion of any kind. Sales persons and financial advisors affiliated with MLPF&S or any of its affiliates may not

irm policies.

Neither BofA Merrill Lynch nor any officer or employee of BofA Merrill Lynch accepts any liability whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential damages or losses arising from any use of

Bankof America

Merrill Lynch

Japan Macro Watch | 14 November 2016

7

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014430
