peacock’s tail feathers are an encumbrance in running from predators. And why give
the expensive displays mostly to males? Why do males exist at all in species where

they contribute genes but no care?

We just saw the answer to the first. Answers to the second two again build on an
insight of Trivers in 1973. Males produce cheap sperm carrying genes alone.
Females produce eggs packed with costly nutrients. A male can pass genes to many
descendants through many mates if they approve his signs. That speeds up the fight
against parasites. Nature evolved males and their self-promoting signs and their

contests for fastest spread of antidote genes to catch up to shifts in parasite load.

Where Do Losers Go?

A key point in the Hamilton-Zuk theory is that losers’ genes in the beauty contest are
typically not driven to extinction. They are driven to low frequencies until needed
again. Kin selection, up to a point, helps maintain genic diversity by preserving
current losers within the gene pool. Selection pressures punish and restrain kin
selection when it conflicts with preservation of other genes whose time will come
again. | met Hamilton at a conference in Squaw Valley, where Bob Trivers had
helped us attract him, and told him this reason why I thought his 1982 paper helped
complete and qualify his 1964 paper. He was the absent-minded professor to
perfection. Moody, distracted, profound. He smiled, a rare thing for him, and said

“It’s been a long search.”

This explains what | mean by lineage survival or fitness. Much of this book assumes
its maximization even among modern humans, who create our own urban
environments in place of the ancestral savanna for which we were adapted. And
much of economic history, although written in cities by city-dwellers, appears to
assume the same. Chapter 2 listed some examples. Let’s review them. There was
Petty’s of 1662. The similar equilibrium wage theories of Smith and Ricardo
expected pay to converge to the level maintaining and replacing the work force,

which is trusted to spend it on both. Malthus’ population principle in 1798 and 1801

Chapter 7 Petty’s Idea 2/3/16 9

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011068
