This is to say that John and Avery Gunther helped IBM defend against an allegation of murder, and in
this way they are accomplices to a cover-up. This is also to say that the characterization provided by
John and Avery Gunther in their April 2011 Superior Court filing for a Protection Order against me
and their admissions in this filing of having provided derogatory information to various persons and/or
entities in the DC area to include school administrators, psychologists, and law enforcement, were
more to harm me, especially in my chances to hold IBM accountable, than to protect either
themselves or children Anjulee and Xian Gunther.

| also long-allege that the relationship that developed from this initial quid pro quo led to John and
Avery Gunther being similarly compensated for what turned into the sexual exploitation of their two
daughters. For more on child sexual exploitation for the sake of personal and professional leverage,
see especially the following:

Nick Bryant | The Franklin Scandal & The Elite’s Pedophilia Cover Up,
https://Awww. youtube.com/watch?v=68gvGGPjm0o0&t=978s

That the NSF won't acknowledge the abuse, and won't respond even to my FOIA requests, and
otherwise has gone to extents to protect Cathie Skoog and her co-conspirators at IBM and otherwise
is all that was needed to have adequately turned the organization towards the interests of the Deep
State. Now it is simply a matter of the Deep State continuing to put the NSF to use.

*

*

Jeffrey Epstein in context:
(As sent to the Wash Post)

| send you this in response to the recent column entitled Believe in the Process by Kenneth Starr.
Perhaps rethink any public affiliation with Ken Starr; although his demeanor on paper is undoubtably
consoling, it is also a bit intoxifying when it would be best now if we keep our wits about us, no?

| say this from the following perspective - Ken Starr of the Starr Report, attorney for (1) Erik Prince of
Blackwater and (2) convicted pedophile Jeffrey Epstein in context:

The Starr Report buried behind salacious detail of the Lewinsky affair almost nothing of Whitewater,
Travelgate, or otherwise what many consider the murder of Vince Foster (Foster, albeit the subject of
a different investigation was also under the purview of attorney Starr and formal investigation of the
results of Starr's investigation were drowned out by the details of the Lewinsky affair.) This is a bit
strange considering the Lewinsky affair was a moral failing and not an actionable criminal one as
would have been the others had any proof surfaced.

Starr later defended Blackwater against wrongful deaths suit initiated by the families of the 2004
Fallujah Ambush victims - In October 2006, Blackwater hired one of the nation’s heaviest-hitting
lawyers to represent it - Kenneth Starr, the independent counsel in the 1999 impeachment of
President Bill Clinton over the Monica Lewinsky sex scandal... Starr and his colleagues argued that
Blackwater was constitutionally immune from such lawsuits and said that if the Fallujah case were
allowed to proceed, Blackwater will suffer irreparable harm.” In the eighteen-page petition to the
Supreme Court, Blackwater argued that there are no other such lawsuits against private
military/security companies in state courts because the comprehensive regulatory scheme enacted
by Congress and the President grant military contractors like Blackwater immunity from state-court
litigation. (pp. 234-235, Blackwater). (Author Ken Davis writes) The four men had spent the night

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015011
