How do you know? I asked, irritated by his presumption, nervously curious. I wasn't
sure I was what he thought I was -- wasn't sure what had been going on that night,
beyond alcohol dulling my reactions and feelings. But I knew I hadn't been abused or
violated. I hadn't asked him to stop, and I wanted to figure out why. How did you know
about me?”

I can tell, he said, and grinned. With you, it was obvious.” He paused, added quietly,
You were begging for it.”

A couple of hours later, we remained fully clothed, my face was buried in his pillow, and
I was crying. He'd pinned me down so I couldn't move, and was raking his nails across
what was exposed of my tank-topped back. When Richard first spotted the tears, he'd
asked if I wanted a break. I'd said that it was okay, that he should continue, that I was
fine.

I felt myself fragmenting, desperation and terror and pain pouring through me in an
unbearable, necessary torrent. I told myself over and over that it didn't hurt that much, but
I couldn't stop myself from tensing, crying out. After a while, I found myself saying,
No.

I felt him check himself, shifting his weight from my back. Can we clarify something?”
he asked gently. Do you really want me to stop when you say no?”

No, I realized, J don't, and something vital in my psyche seemed to snap. The tears
overwhelmed me. I couldn't get an answer out through my sobs, but even if I could have,
I haven't the faintest idea what I might have said.

We should take a break, he decided, and moved away. I'll never forget the relief -- and
desolation -- I felt as he did.

TK OK ok

It was a long time later that I remembered: I had met someone like Richard, years before.
It had been in spring 2003; the guy was thin and pale, dressing mainly in black. I hadn't
once thought of him in a romantic light.

I'd counted him a friend, but had only been alone with him once. We were in his living
room, seated next to each other on dun-colored carpet. I couldn't recall how it started --
we'd been sitting playing video games? had he tickled me as I shouted invective at the
screen? -- but it ended with him holding my wrists, me lying back on the floor and
wondering how to get him off me.

I'd thought he might kiss me, so I turned my head away. Instead, he bit my neck. No, I
said aloud, more in startlement than anything else, and he gave me a searching look -- as
if he wasn't sure I was serious. Please let me up,” I said, and he asked, Why?

I didn't feel panicked, but strangely at a loss: he didn't seem to take my objection
seriously. Yet he wasn't particularly threatening me, and I wasn't afraid. I explained that I
was in a committed, monogamous relationship I didn't want to disrupt; I carefully didn't
react when he bit me again, although it hurt.

I didn't say I wasn't getting anything out of my powerlessness or his apparent desire to

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018451
