Did I quit the rat race because it’s bad, or just because I couldn’t hack it? Did I just cop out?

3. Is this as good as it gets? Perhaps I was better off when I was following orders and ignorant of the
possibilities. It was easier at least.

Am I really successful or just kidding myself?

5. Have I lowered my standards to make myself a winner? Are my friends, who are now making
twice as much as three years ago, really on the right track?

6. Why amI not happy’? I can do anything and I’m still not happy. Do I even deserve it?

Most of this can be overcome as soon as we recognize it for what it is: outdated comparisons using the
more-is-better and money-as-success mind-sets that got us into trouble to begin with. Even so, there is a
more profound observation to be made.

These doubts invade the mind when nothing else fills it. Think of a time when you felt 100% alive and
undistracted—in the zone. Chances are that it was when you were completely focused in the moment on
something external: someone or something else. Sports and sex are two great examples. Lacking an
external focus, the mind turns inward on itself and creates problems to solve, even if the problems are
undefined or unimportant. If you find a focus, an ambitious goal that seems impossible and forces you to

grow,®! these doubts disappear.

In the process of searching for a new focus, it is almost inevitable that the “big” questions will creep
in. There is pressure from pseudo-philosophers everywhere to cast aside the impertinent and answer the
eternal. Two popular examples are “What is the meaning of life?” and “What is the point of it all?”

There are many more, ranging from the introspective to the ontological, but I have one answer for
almost all of them—I don’t answer them at all.

I’m no nihilist. In fact, ?ve spent more than a decade investigating the mind and concept of meaning,
a quest that has taken me from the neuroscience laboratories of top universities to the halls of religious
institutions worldwide. The conclusion after it all is surprising.

I am 100% convinced that most big questions we feel compelled to face—handed down through
centuries of overthinking and mistranslation—use terms so undefined as to make attempting to answer
them a complete waste of time.®2 This isn’t depressing. It’s liberating.

Consider the question of questions: What is the meaning of life?

If pressed, I have but one response: It is the characteristic state or condition of a living organism. “But
that’s just a definition,” the questioner will retort, “that’s not what I mean at all.” What do you mean,
then? Until the question is clear—each term in it defined—there is no point in answering it. The
“meaning” of “life” question is unanswerable without further elaboration.

Before spending time on a stress-inducing question, big or otherwise, ensure that the answer is “yes”
to the following two questions:

1. Have I decided on a single meaning for each term in this question?

2. Can an answer to this question be acted upon to improve things’?

“What is the meaning of life?” fails the first and thus the second. Questions about things beyond your
sphere of influence like “What if the train is late tomorrow’?” fail the second and should thus be ignored.
These are not worthwhile questions. If you can’t define it or act upon it, forget it. If you take just this
point from this book, it will put you in the top 1% of performers in the world and keep most
philosophical distress out of your life.

Sharpening your logical and practical mental toolbox is not being an atheist or unspiritual. It’s not
being crass and it’s not being superficial. It’s being smart and putting your effort where it can make the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013982
