Palm Beach estate over time. She wanted Epstein prosecuted — and was willing to
testify — but prosecutors never gave her the chance, she told the Herald.

In addition, FBI records show that agents had traveled to New York and New
Mexico to interview other possible victims, the Herald found. The non-prosecution
deal that was struck was filed under seal. The result was that no one — not even the
judge — would know the full scope of Epstein’s crimes and how many victims were
involved.

Acosta, who now heads a federal agency with oversight of international child labor
laws and human trafficking, was personally involved in the negotiations, records,
letters and emails show.

AG nominee Barr pledges to look into handling of Epstein case

Sen. Ben Sasse questioned attorney general nominee William Barr about the Jeffrey
Epstein case on January 15, 2019, getting the nominee to commit to having the
Department of Justice look into the handling of that case if confirmed.

By C-SPAN

Sloman reiterated Acosta’s earlier contention that most of Epstein’s victims
wouldn’t cooperate.

“So somehow, had Epstein been a child molester of one or two victims, then they
would have prosecuted him?” said Wild’s attorney, Brad Edwards, in an interview
with the Herald for its series published in November. “But because he molested
hundreds of victims and some of them wouldn't testify, then they are saying, “we
can’t prosecute.’ How absurd is that argument?”

Edwards tried unsuccessfully to block the plea deal in federal court. In 2008, days
after Epstein was sentenced, he filed an emergency order, alleging that the
agreement was illegal because it violated the Crime Victims’ Rights Act, which
grants crime victims certain rights, including the right to confer with prosecutors
and be notified of a plea deal. The lawsuit is still pending a decade later.

“There is a reason for the Crime Victims Rights Act — so that prosecutors don’t
preempt a victim’s ability to speak for themselves about a proposed plea bargain,”
Scarola said. “Here, the decision was being made secretly for them.”

DARREN K. INDYKE
5300 W. Atlantic Avenue, Suite 602
Delray Beach, Florida 33484

KKKKEKK KEKE KEKE EEE RK KEKE KEKE KEE KEK KEK EK ERK EEK EK KEE KEKE EK EE KE RK KKK EKER EEK EK EK EE KEE KEK EKER EK EEK EEK EK EE KEE KEK EEE REE EK

The information contained in this communication is confidential, may be attorney-client

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023131
