A for Automation puts cash flow on autopilot using geographic arbitrage, outsourcing, and rules of
nondecision. From bracketing to the routines of ultrasuccessful NR, it’s all here. This section provides
the second ingredient of luxury lifestyle design: income.

L for Liberation is the mobile manifesto for the globally inclined. The concept of mini-retirements is
introduced, as are the means for flawless remote control and escaping the boss. Liberation is not about
cheap travel; it is about forever breaking the bonds that confine you to a single location. This section
delivers the third and final ingredient for luxury lifestyle design: mobility.

I should note that most bosses are less than pleased if you spend one hour in the office each day, and
employees should therefore read the steps in the entrepreneurially minded DEAL order but implement
them as DELA. If you decide to remain in your current job, it is necessary to create freedom of location
before you cut your work hours by 80%. Even if you have never considered becoming an entrepreneur in
the modern sense, the DEAL process will turn you into an entrepreneur in the purer sense as first coined
by French economist J. B. Say in 1800—one who shifts economic resources out of an area of lower and
into an area of higher yield.

Last but not least, much of what I recommend will seem impossible and even offensive to basic
common sense—I expect that. Resolve now to test the concepts as an exercise in lateral thinking. If you
try it, you'll see just how deep the rabbit hole goes, and you won’t ever go back.

Take a deep breath and let me show you my world. And remember—tranquilo. It’s time to have fun
and let the rest follow.

TIM FERRISS

Tokyo, Japan
September 29, 2006

1. Uncommon terms are defined throughout this book as concepts are introduced. If something is
unclear or you need a quick reference, please visit www.fourhourblog.com for an extensive glossary
and other resources.

> CHRONOLOGY OF A PATHOLOGY

An expert is a person who has made all the mistakes that can be made in a very narrow field.
—NIELS BOHR, Danish physicist and Nobel Prize winner

Ordinarily he was insane, but he had lucid moments when he was merely stupid.
— HEINRICH HEINE, German critic and poet

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013808
