Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman bin Abdul-Aziz Al Saud - may Allah protect him - has
made changes from the first day he took the judgment, sensing the importance of the role of the
authority if corruption. And also, his dissatisfaction with the role that the Authority of Corruption are
playing. If the fight against corruption is not at the head of power that is meaning that you do not have
the fight against corruption and you will not succeed no matter how you worked. | assure you that there
will never be an exception for anyone who involved in a corruption case, whether a minister, a prince, or
whatever. Anyone who convicted by enough evidence against him will be charged.

* Will social media networking contribute to detecting corruption if any?

- We must not take documents on the issue of corruption from social networking sites, where we cannot
identify the counterfeit from the non-counterfeited, the real or the not real, and who has a special
agenda of those who do not have a special agenda. Any Saudi citizen can be in his hand any documents
of corruption or information linked to anyone or else and he believes that there is corruption, he can
submit this document to the competent authorities headed by the Anti-Corruption Authority, and he
must be confident that the competent authorities are in turn.

* You Highness the Prince, the open war on Houthi in Yemen, will it last?
- No one wants to continue the war.
* What is its future in your opinion?

- No doubt that when the war had there was no option for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, it is a must to do
it, or the other will be the scenario is much worse. First his coup on the legitimacy by militias, that
classified as terrorist militias and we a negative experience with them in 2009. Secondly, these Militias
are forming a threat to international navigation, and all Yemen's neighbors. The third, the terrorist
activity which began in the other party in southern Yemen are active in a very strong exploitation of the
work of these militias, and if we waited a little danger will become more complex and will become
dangerous within the territory of Saudi Arabia, within the territory of the countries in the region, and in
the major international crossing points. So that, we have had no other choice. | think the Saudi armed
forces have achieved very big achievements. When the operations began, the legitimate control was
almost zero% on Yemeni territory. Today, the legitimacy controls 80 or 85% of the Yemeni territory,
while another alliance was found in northern Saudi Arabia in Iraq and Syria to fight Da'ash, which
controls part of Iraq. 60 countries led by the United States from 2014, that was a year ago before us, and
until today they did not do anything. But, we are 10 countries in the region and we were able to achieve
an achievement in a shorter time than the war in Iraq and Syria, this is an achievement for the Saudi
armed forces, Yemeni forces, and alliance forces.

* As long as they continued to control the Yemeni territory, why legitimate authority does not move to
Yemen?

- The legitimacy authority always moves between Yemen and Saudi Arabia and it has been in Aden for a
long time and always avoid being the president and vice president are both in Yemen in order to
mitigate the danger of the liquidation of Yemeni legitimacy, so they make steps in this way.

* There is a talk about a disagreement between Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates about “El-
Eslah group”, their role in the war, and the future of Yemen. What is the validity of this speech?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023657
