and headed to my car with T.J in tow. For the rest of the night he was
oddly quiet and asked to be dropped off at his parent’s house, I was more
than obliged to do so. I couldn’t stand the sight of him let alone want to
be around him tonight. Being so revved up it didn’t yet dawn on me that
something wasn’t right. The next morning I was woken up by an alerting
phone call, | had the manager from the restaurant where I worked, on the
other end screaming at me and asking where the money is. I sat up in bed,
completely awake now, and asked him back, “What are you talking
about, what money?” His tone had calmed a bit and he could hear the
eamestly in my voice and explained his accusations “The tip jar was
empty after you had left last night and there was over a hundred and fifty
dollars in there, now it’s missing”. The answer hit me instantly and I got
a terrible knot in my stomach...T.J. When I left him at the bar not even
thinking about the tip bowl to talk with the manager, he saw an
opportunity to fund more drugs and he took it. That’s why he didn’t even
want to come back to my apartment last night. It was all too clear for me
now and I tried to explain to my manager about my boyfriend’s sickness
and asked him to take the lost money out of my wages. “I have no choice
but to let you go and file a police report for the missing money”. I
couldn’t believe what I was hearing. How did things tum upside down so
quickly? I exclaimed “Even though I’m paying you from my pocket for
money I didn’t even steal and you’ve never even had any problems from
me before?”. His apologies were short and icy, nothing that could be
done. I slammed down the receiver only to pick it up again to dial T.J’s
parents house and to no surprise he hadn’t slept there last night and was
not able to be reached. J felt like I was in a bad dream I couldn’t wake up
from and with no money to pay rent, eat, or even survive, | was back to
the drawing board.

The week passed without hearing from T.J, he was in hiding, for now.
When the phone rang early one morning [ expected it to be him, instead it
was a surprise phone call from a familiar voice. Jeffrey decided to give
me a call to invite me over to his Palm Beach mansion for some lunch
and to catch up, it really was just his way of finding out if | was cleaned
up and ready to come back to work for him. With my life in chaos once
again and having to borrow money off my parents for grocery food, I saw
a quick solution to my situation and was even convinced this is what I
had to do to take care of myself.

He greeted me at the door and led me inside. Ghislane was at her usual
spot, her desk working away, and we headed past her with a quick wave
and lip-synced a “Hello”, not wanting to disturb her important sounding
phone call. She glanced up quickly and gave a brisk wave my way, then
put her attention back to the computer. Once we were inside the poolside
cabana, which was Jeffrey’s office, & gym, Jeffrey took a seat behind his

85

\ Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFREO0$218

desk and told me to have a seat across from him. He took a sip of water
from an already poured glass and asked if I'd like some. “Yes, Thank
you” My reply was short and polite, already just wanting to get this
meeting done and over with. His face was like steel and his expressions
were stern, I felt like a child in trouble sitting in the principles office.

He cut straight to the chase wanting to know “Are you on drugs
anymore?” There was a moment’s pause as | took a deep breath and told
him the entire truth. “I got really depressed for awhile and coped with my
emotions by blanketing them with mind-altering substances. Just smoking
ajay to relax wasn’t good enough anymore. | needed to be high and
flying to believe I was happy and dealing with all of life’s curveballs.
Snorting things like coke and popping amphetamines replaced my
sorrows with an overflow of endorphins, making it possible to keep up
with everything, until | would come down and the cycle just kept on
repeating itself”.

He listened to me continue to tell him about the good things that have
come from the break. Like my dog, yoga, and working at a restaurant,
making lots of new friends but most of all, I got my smile back, without
the drugs this time. He was really happy to hear the upside of everything,
but there was one thing I was reluctant to tell him about. My recent
travail that T.J effortlessly caused at the restaurant where I was so happily
employed. As my manager had warned he had to file a police report
stating that after I had left, the tips were gone, putting the blame solely on
me.

Giving Jeffrey a clear picture of the entire ordeal he exclaimed “What
are you doing with this idiot Jenna, he is no good for you! I know you can
do better for yourself, why do you let him drag you down every time?”
Nodding my head in concurrence I went on to finish my epic drama. “T
received a phone call from the PBCP asking me to come in about the
money, I told them what happened over the phone but they still want me
to come in. I don’t want to have a record for something I never did or
ever would do!’ I put my face into my hands and covered the tears now
trickling down my cheeks. “I just can’t believe this is happening to me
when everything has been going so uphill, now I’m out of work and in
trouble” I wiped my face and looked up at him “ What do I do?” Enabling
him as my mentor once again, his sly grin said it all. Jeffrey normally
hated when girls made waves in any way and this one would be
considered a tsunami but this time it worked to his favor. He wanted me
to come back to work for him, continuing my massage studies and I
needed his help. In his eyes he was doing me a solid, which in return [
would have to scratch more than his back for. Taking his time to
contemplate what to respond back and what solution he could offer, |
began to worry that maybe | shouldn’t have done this.

86

O Copyright Protected Material

GIUIFRE004219.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021187
