YO-YO MA

Yo-Yo Ma’s multi-faceted career is testament to his continual
search for new ways to communicate with audiences, and
to his personal desire for artistic growth and renewal.
Whether performing new or familiar works from the
cello repertoire, coming together with colleagues for
chamber music or exploring cultures and musical forms
outside the Western classical tradition, Mr. Ma strives
to find connections that stimulate the imagination.

One of Mr. Ma’s goals is the exploration of music as
a means of communication and as a vehicle for the migrations
of ideas across a range of cultures throughout the world.
Expanding upon this interest, in 1998, Mr. Ma established
the Silk Road Project, a nonprofit arts and educational
organization. Under his artistic direction, the Silk Road Project
presents performances by the acclaimed Silk Road Ensemble,
engages in cross-cultural exchanges and residencies, leads
workshops for students, and partners with leading cultural
institutions to create educational materials and programs.

The Project’s ongoing affiliation with Harvard
University has made it possible to broaden and enhance
educational programming. In the 2011-2012 school year,
with ongoing partnerships with arts and educational
organizations in New York City, it continues to expand Silk
Road Connect, a multidisciplinary educational initiative
for middle-school students in the city’s public schools.
Developing new music is also a central undertaking of the
Silk Road Project, which has been involved in commissioning
and performing more than 60 new musical and multimedia
works from composers and arrangers around the world.

As the Chicago Symphony Orchestra’s Judson
and Joyce Green Creative Consultant, Mr. Ma is partnering
with Maestro Riccardo Muti to provide collaborative
musical leadership and guidance on innovative program
development for The Institute for Learning, Access and
Training at the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, and for Chicago
Symphony artistic initiatives. Mr. Ma’s work focuses on the
transformative power music can have in individuals’ lives,
and on increasing the number and variety of opportunities
audiences have to experience music in their communities.

Mr. Ma and the Institute have created the Citizen Musician
Initiative, a movement that calls on all musicians, music
lovers, music teachers and institutions to use the art form
to bridge gulfs between people and to create and inspire a
sense of community. www.citizenmusician.org features
stories of Citizen Musician activity across the globe.

Mr. Ma is also widely recognized for his strong
commitment to educational programs that bring the world
into the classroom and the classroom into the world.

While touring, he takes time whenever possible to conduct
master classes as well as more informal programs for
students—musicians and non-musicians alike. He has also
reached young audiences through appearances on “Arthur,”
“Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood” and “Sesame Street.”

Mr. Ma’s discography of over 75 albums (including
more than 15 Grammy Award winners) reflects his wide-
ranging interests. He has made several successful recordings
that defy categorization, among them “Hush” with Bobby
McFerrin, “Appalachia Waltz” and “Appalachian Journey”
with Mark O’Connor and Edgar Meyer and two Grammy-
winning tributes to the music of Brazil, “Obrigado Brazil”
and “Obrigado Brazil—Live in Concert.” Mr. Ma’s recent
recordings include Mendelssohn Trios with Emanuel Ax and
Itzhak Perlman. His new album, “The Goat Rodeo Sessions,”
with Edgar Meyer, Chris Thile and Stuart Duncan was
released in October 2011. Across this full range of releases,
Mr. Ma remains one of the best-selling recording artists in the
classical field. All of his recent albums have quickly entered
the Billboard chart of classical best sellers, remaining in
the Top 15 for extended periods, often with as many as four
titles simultaneously on the list. In fall 2009, Sony Classical
released a box set of over 90 albums to commemorate Mr.
Ma’s 30 years as a Sony recording artist.

Yo-Yo Ma was born in 1955 to Chinese parents living
in Paris. He began to study the cello with his father at age
four and soon came with his family to New York, where he
spent most of his formative years. Later, his principal teacher
was Leonard Rose at The Juilliard School. He has received
numerous awards, including the Avery Fisher Prize (1978),

the Glenn Gould Prize (1999), the National Medal of the
Arts (2001), the Dan David Prize (2006), the Sonning Prize
(2006), the World Economic Forum’s Crystal Award (2008)
and the Presidential Medal of Freedom (2010). In 2011 Mr.
Ma was recognized as a Kennedy Center Honoree. He was
the recipient of the 2012 Polar Music Prize. Appointed a
CultureConnect Ambassador by the United States Department
of State in 2002, Mr. Ma has met with, trained and mentored
thousands of students worldwide in countries including
Lithuania, Korea, Lebanon, Azerbaijan and China. Mr. Ma
serves as a UN Messenger of Peace and as a member of the
President’s Committee on the Arts & the Humanities. He
has performed for eight American presidents, most recently
at the invitation of President Obama on the occasion of the
56th Inaugural Ceremony. Mr. Ma and his wife have two
children. He plays two instruments, a 1733 Montagnana
cello from Venice and the 1712 Davidoff Stradivarius.

For additional information, see: www.yo-yoma.
com, www.silkroadproject.org, and www.opus3artists.com.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017549
