sex with anyone over the age of 14 is a class D misdemeanor calling for a
$100 fine—the law has recently been changed to TK).

In fact, the “SG” tells the police that she lied about being 18 because
otherwise she knew she would not have been admitted to the house (other
girls will say they knew this is what they had to say, nevertheless not
stopping them from saying it).

The local sex crimes prosecutor, Lana Belhalevic, interviews all the
girls and determines that the offense is solely related to prostitution—that
there are no real victims here.

Dershowitz, with chest pounding bravado, rejects a series of lower-
level plea deals and Palm Beach District Attorney Barry Krischer takes the
unusual step of empanelling a grand jury, which returns with a
recommendation of a single count of soliciting a prostitute—a charge
without jail time. (And Epstein can apply to have his record expunged after a
year.)

At which point, Reiter, the police chief, at odds with the District
Attorney’s office, recruits the involvement of the FBI. This is of course the
Bush-era FBI and Epstein presents quite the Clinton-connected scandal.
Still, solicitation, even of a minor, 1s not a federal crime. The FBI hits on the
novel interpretation that if Internet solicitation can be considered interstate
commerce, so can telephone solicitation, permitting them to begin a deep
dive investigation into Epstein’s friends, many of whom receive subpoenas
and are threatened with prosecution.

It’s all quite in the eye of the beholder: On the one end, Epstein is
paying for sex acts (Epstein paid $200 for a massage with or without happy
ending), on the other, he is abusing teenage girls. It’s a catch-22: How cana
girl not old enough to vote be a prostitute? And yet, many girls not old
enough to vote are prostitutes.

Compounding Epstein’s predicament, the world outside of his
carefully constructed and controlled environment is someplace that he seems
not just ill-equipped to handle but in which he seems to be blindly grouping
about (i.e. he’s totally tone deaf). I visited him once during this time and
found him weighing the conflicting advice of some of the most vaunted and
egomaniacal lawyers (along with Dershowitz and Black, celebrity criminal
attorney, Gerald Lefcourt, and Clinton prosecutor, Ken Starr) of the day—
anyone with new advice, Epstein seemed to hire—as well as a catchall of the
leading crisis managers, who he seemed to retain at will, all wrangling for
fees and primacy.

Certainly, the upshot of his dealings with the Justice Department seem
to involve a through-the-looking-glass logic. The government threatens to

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022762
