2D

The part of social change that is the hardest to understand in a
positivistic way is the moral dimension—that is, the ideas that people
carry around in their heads regarding legitimacy, justice, dignity and
community. The current Arab uprising was triggered by the self-
immolation of an overeducated 26-year-old Tunisian vegetable seller
whose cart was repeatedly confiscated by the authorities. After
Mohamed Bouazizi was slapped by a policewoman when he tried to
complain, he reached the end of his tether. Bouazizi’s public suicide
turned into a social movement because contemporary
communications technologies facilitated the growth of a new social
space where middle-class people could recognize and organize
around their common interests. We will probably never understand,
even in retrospect, why the dry tinder of outraged dignity suddenly
ignited in this fashion in December 2010 as opposed to 2009, or ten
years before that, and why the conflagration spread to some Arab
countries but not to others. But we can certainly do a better job in
putting together the few pieces we do understand, in a way that would
be useful to policymakers coping with the reality of social change.

1 Huntington, Political Order in Changing Societies: With a New Forward by Francis Fukuyama (Yale
University Press, 2006).

2Davies, “Towards a Theory of Revolution”, American Sociological Review, Vol. 27 (1962).

3Zakaria, The Future of Freedom: IIliberal Democracy at Home and Abroad (W. W. Norton, 2003); see
also Zakaria, “A Conversation with Lee Kuan Yew”, Foreign Affairs (March/April 1994).

4For a description of the Wolfenson presidency, see Sebastian Mallaby, The World’s Banker: A Story of
Failed States, Financial Crises, and the Wealth and Poverty of Nations (Penguin Press, 2004).

5See Harold James’s retroview, entitled “Growing Pains”, of a classic December 1963 essay by Mancur
Olson (“Rapid Growth as a Destabilizing Force”) in The American Interest (September/October 2006).

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023482
