41

Confucius Institutes

One of the most controversial aspects of the whole US-China educational exchange

is the Confucius Institutes (CI), of which there are now 110 (plus 501 Confucius
Classrooms in secondary schools) across the United States.* For secondary schools and
colleges that have no or little other coverage of China on campus, CIs are an important
resource. Sponsored by the Hanban, an organization directly under the Ministry of
Education in Beijing, but also with ties to the External Propaganda Leading Group of
the CCP Central Committee, the primary mission of CIs is to teach Chinese language
and culture abroad. However, faculty and other watchdogs have warned that they may
present risks to intellectual freedom by using American universities as vehicles through
which to advance Chinese Communist Party propaganda. Accusations leveled at Cls
revolve mainly around the exclusive use of PRC materials that promote PRC Chinese
viewpoints, terminology, and simplified characters; the avoidance of discussion

on controversial topics such as Tibet, Tiananmen, Xinjiang, the Falun Gong, and
human rights in American classrooms and programs; and potential infringement on
theoretically independent studies curricula on American campuses.

Although proponents of CIs like to compare them with branches of France’s L’Alliance
Francaise, Germany’s Goethe Instituts, and Spain’s Cervantes Institute, they are
different in important ways. Unlike these other institutions, CIs are joint operations
located inside—and co-funded by—a host university or secondary school for which
the Hanban arranges a Chinese university to supply teachers, textbooks, and other
materials. The teachers are paid by the Chinese university (and hence do not hold
green cards or pay US taxes). Typically, the Hanban provides a $150,000 start-up grant
with $100,000—$200,000 per year follow-on funding (depending on the institution)
directly to the American university. Secondary schools normally receive $50,000 in
initial funding and $15,000 subsequently per annum. Most troublesome are two
provisions in the Hanban contracts with US host institutions: One forbids the Cls
from conducting any activities that contravene Chinese law while the other requires
that the enabling contract remain confidential, making oversight by the academic
community difficult.

Some participating American institutions have belatedly had second thoughts about
their partnerships. In 2014, the University of Chicago terminated its CI contract

with the Hanban after months of controversy among faculty, spurred by a high-
profile critical article by an emeritus member.’ Since that time, at least two additional
American universities have also closed their branches (Pennsylvania State University
and University of West Florida),!° and Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL), a leading critic of
alleged Chinese “influence activities,” has written letters to a number of other Florida
institutions hosting CIs requesting that they also be closed.'' Representatives Michael
McCaul (R-TX) and Henry Cuellar (D-TX) called for the same termination in their own

Section 4

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020500
