38

emerged after World War II — the United States and the Soviet
Union — were engaged in an intense struggle for the eastern
Mediterranean after World War II, as can be seen in the Greek and
Turkish issues at that time. Neither wanted to see the British Empire
survive, each wanted the Levant, and neither was prepared to make a
decisive move to take it.

Both the United States and the Soviet Union saw the re-creation of
Israel as an opportunity to introduce their power to the Levant. The
Soviets thought they might have some influence over Israel due to
ideology. The Americans thought they might have some influence
given the role of American Jews in the founding. Neither was
thinking particularly clearly about the matter, because neither had
truly found its balance after World War II. Both knew the Levant was
important, but neither saw the Levant as a central battleground at that
moment. Israel slipped through the cracks.

Once the question of Jewish unity was settled through ruthless action
by David Ben Gurion's government, Israel faced a simultaneous
threat from all of its immediate neighbors. However, as we have seen,
the threat in 1948 was more apparent than real. The northern Levant,
Lebanon, was fundamentally disunited — far more interested in
regional maritime trade and concerned about control from Damascus.
It posed no real threat to Israel. Jordan, settling the eastern bank of
the Jordan River, was an outside power that had been transplanted
into the region and was more concerned about native Arabs — the
Palestinians — than about Israel. The Jordanians secretly
collaborated with Israel. Egypt did pose a threat, but its ability to
maintain lines of supply across the Sinai was severely limited and its
genuine interest in engaging and destroying Israel was more
rhetorical than real. As usual, the Egyptians could not afford the level
of effort needed to move into the Levant. Syria by itself had a very
real interest in Israel's defeat, but by itself was incapable of decisive

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031871
