Kapusta was our guide on our punishing five-day treks through the Negev.
Though Avraham would see us off at the start, he stayed back at the base. In a
couple of the exercises, we relied on carrier pigeons to keep in touch with the
base, until Kapusta began killing them for dinner. Once, on a searingly hot
desert afternoon, hours from the nearest hospital, he spotted a poisonous snake.
He used pieces of wood to pry its head up from the sand, grabbed its neck and
strangled it.

We also studied some Arabic, though most of the Sephardi recruits already
spoke the language. My tutor was a Cairo-born Jew named Amin. In part
because he enjoyed mathematics and played the violin, we hit it off
immediately. He was also deaf in one ear. Languages have never been my forte.
Even in Hebrew, I have a slight lisp. That made mastering Arabic even harder.
Still, Amin would frequently compliment me on my accent, at which point the
others in the class would point out that I was lucky he was hard of hearing.

A year in, we were given a classroom briefing on what to do if we fell into
enemy hands. The gist was to tell them only our name, rank and serial number.
But we had a special session with Gibli, who told us about what captivity was
really like. He had been shot and wounded during a retaliation operation in 1954
and was captured by the Jordanians. Until his release, he was kept in solitary
confinement and tortured. The details of his imprisonment, the beatings and the
cigarette burns, were lurid. Partly because we were developing a bit of
commando self-confidence — but mostly to hide the discomfort of wondering
how each of us would react to being in enemy hands — we heckled him over an
account that seemed to get more heroic with each retelling. He wisely ignored
us. He told us that survival would be down not just to physical strength. It
required strength of mind, the kind of subtlety required to give your captors
something to keep them at bay and to establish some form of human bond, to
but withhold anything of genuine value.

A few weeks later, the whole sayeret held a four-day exercise in the Galilee.
On the second night, at about four in the morning, we shook off our backpacks
and settled in for a few hours’ sleep. The first thing I heard was shouting in
Arabic. I saw a guy hovering over me, his face covered. He handcuffed me,
pulled a burlap sack over my head, yanked me to me feet and led me off. We
were piled into the back of a truck. From the whispered comments around me, I
assumed all twenty of us had been taken. We drove for nearly four hours.
Twice, I got an slap across the face, more painful because of the burlap. I kept

60
HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011531
