http:/Avww.thedailybeast.com/articles/2010/07/22/jeffrey-epstein-pedophile-billionaire-and-
his-sex-den. html

The Billionaire Pedophile's Sex Den

Hedge fund mogul and sex offender Jeffrey Epstein, who went free this week, lived in a
depraved world of thrice-daily massages, pornographic artwork, and hush money—that’s only
now being revealed. Conchita Sarnoff reports on the sordid details in part two of her exclusive
exposé.

Hedge fund mogul and sex offender Jeffrey Epstein, who went free this week, lived in a
depraved world of thrice-daily massages, pornographic artwork, and hush money—that’s
only now being revealed. Conchita Sarnoff reports on the sordid details in part two of her
exclusive exposé. Also:

« Nude images of young girls were scattered around the house and the bathroom soap was
shaped like sex organs

* Staff trolled for fresh recruits to make sure Epstein had two or three massage
appointments each day

* The house manager has been sentenced to a longer prison term than Epstein—for trying
to sell notes regarding massage appointments

* Epstein gave $1 million to his friend Jean Luc Brunel when he was starting the modeling
agency MC2

* According to a former bookkeeper, young girls were brought to the U.S. by MC2— often
from Eastern Europe—then traveled on Epstein’s private jets

Jetfrey Epstein’s loyal friends say that his prosecution was unduly harsh, rather than
outrageously lenient. They insist that his sexual habits, although obsessive and unusual, were
mostly legal and essentially harmless. As the police records attest, the girls brought to El Brillo
Way were routinely told they could “say no” at any time during a massage as Epstein escalated
contact in a step-by-step assault that was remarkably similar in every victim’s statement: First
she would be asked to remove her shirt, then her pants. He would attempt to fondle her buttocks
and breasts as he masturbated, then bring out a large vibrator. There was sometimes digital
penetration, and the more willing girls were lured into full-blown sexual relations with both
Epstein and Nadia Marcinkova, who was referred to in press accounts and police reports as
Epstein’s live-in “sex slave.”

A former bookkeeper in the Miami office, who also arranged visas for girls traveling to the U.S.,
confirmed that MC2 girls became frequent guests on Epstein’s private jets.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011929
