Former disc jockey and teacher Bruno Moore was charged with that Tuesday.
Investigators say the 34-year-old used the Internet - myspace.com - to recruit a 13-year
old.

Police say Jeffrey Epstein used a 20-year-old woman who had a myspace.com
account to recruit young girls. His actions were sleazy. It would have been good to ask a
jury just how criminal they were.

Palm Beach Post Editorial #3

Spare us the outrage

Wednesday, February 13, 2008

An 11-month police investigation led to an indictment on one felony charge of
solicitation of prostitution. That was in July 2006, and part-time Palm Beacher
Jeffrey Epstein still has faced no repercussions for allegedly preying on underage
girls.

So maybe Mr. Epstein is satisfied that he's getting his money's worth from his large
legal team, which includes Harvard Law School Professor Alan Dershowitz
(remember O.J. Simpson?) and Kenneth Starr (remember Monica Lewinsky?). Jack
Goldberger of West Palm Beach, who's also on the team, told Post columnist Jose
Lambiet in November: This case is absolutely going to end without a trial within
the next two months.

He was wrong, but Mr. Goldberger remains on Mr. Epstein's payroll, feigning
moral outrage at two lawsuits filed this year against the Manhattan money

manager. The lawsuits allege sexual exploitation of teenaged girls, one of

them as young as 14. Said Mr. Goldberger after the first lawsuit, seeking

more than $50 million, was filed on Jan. 24: We think this shows what this

case is all about: money. Yes, it is - Mr. Epstein's effort to buy his way out

of prosecution.

According to the lawyer of a 17-year-old whose parents are suing him, Mr. Epstein
masturbated in front of her (she was 14 at the time) and used a vibrator on her at his
home in February 2005. Another Epstein attorney, Lilly Ann Sanchez dismissed it:
Jeffrey Epstein did not have sex with this woman.

For those girls who claim that he did, Mr. Epstein's lawyers maintain that he did not
know their ages, despite a police search of his home and garbage that found phone
messages about the girls’ school schedules and even a high school transcript. For all of
his money, Mr. Epstein's best defense remains I didn't know that I was a criminal
pervert?

Palm Beach Post Editorial #4

Rich man fought the law and he mostly won

Palm Beach Post Editorial

Monday, July 07, 2008

Two years after a grand jury indicted him on a felony charge of solicitation of
prostitution, Jeffrey Epstein finally admitted that he lured a teenage girl to his $8.5
million, 13,000-square-foot Palm Beach mansion for sex. A week ago, the 55-yearold

investment banker began serving 18 months in jail.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030302
