document after another for over a year , no getting away from it,, badcash flows nonewIT, each
time with  its gettting better no in fact -! itsnot. - the excuse, that Brad is not the numbers guy, is
ludicrous. of course he didnt actually prepare the statements. - no ceo would ,- but over and over he
presented them to you and me, after , holding them back for his personal review multiple times and after
multiple drafts. weeks of his editing, the consistant but inexplicable missing the obvious serious
errors .( gaming ) inaccuracies, ( cashflow ) and mistakes (tax returns). why, ?! the simple answer is
that at best, he is ac minus, (note. I, like you ,also give points for effort. )-! an elegant art partnership
gone fallow. ??!!I and its core reason to exist. not used ? no docs for plane?, still ! why? no docs for
decantings why? the docs for deal | received last night , no docs at all for deal 2, the biggest . why
wasn't Tom brought in, after 4 times of my incessant reminders your admonition etc. the trading
accounts ?

Barry Cohen is great. more like him please .
you asked ,- I did my best trying to train your brad chosen people in the face of my telling you that they
were never going to be more than c-minuses, thousands of emails thousands? Brad at its head . you
can't as aceo, have an accountant give you multiple pages with the most important numbers missing
altogether and not notice, you and I saw the errrors right away ,as did my very junior bookeeper after
only a cursory glance. He told me he didnt know the details of his note? ! , my guess is that he wanted to
pay less. no more than that, any other story is blather. its silly. Talk to richard yourself.
re your estate. Yes another Brad issue - your will, needs revision. the tenants in common structure I
assume Alan has carefully walked you through. it is way overdue, needed and exciting. I won't list the
more serious issues in an email but we can speak over the weekend.
How can I help? We agreed at the time when you hired Castrucci , that when you fired him, I would
bear no responsibility

Date: Thu, May 12, 2016 at 6:17 AM

Subject: tight schedule lets try a set time to speak

To: Melanie Spinella <

Leon, you hired me to produce a work of art. it was not inexpensive. the value far exceeds any other
piece in your collection.- by FAR. It took me 30 years to be able to craft such a work. I understand
your desire to modifiy my work, in doing so you have brad telling me , just a bit more red., here let me
show you, you yourself pick up a brush a add some strokes. you have joslin spray water on it to
maintain it. I vigorously complain that joslin in ruining my work .. you describe me as zeus, i describe it
as artist and a reaction to his work being ruined. however Im aware that you own the work and you
have the right to paint over it. tear it up , put it in the closet in the basement . its yours.

I was told that Toms office is sending someone in ,or some people in, to review some things. brad told
me ,the partnership accounting. I know absolutely nothing more than that. though bringing in his team was
my idea . Having them review things without even asking for my input , or let alone my direction ,is
ridiculous. but.. I guess you wanted to save money. ?

The audit has brought to the fore the lack of your office quality that 1 have been violently squawking
about. ie. children playing with works of art. . It is inconceivable to me that John castrucct is still there
, Joslin part time, but relied on . joe error prone and brad a corporate bandleader talking about the
office's finance team, accounting dept, and directing wendy to do things that are clearly not in your
interest. ( saving money again?) its nuts!! . a still non-existent IT dept. impossible , it was the first
thing on my list of things that were needed to be done. Still no trading accounts to speak of , though its
prophylactic quality has been discussed over and over during the past three years . computers do not read
Page Six. the women atthe IRS do.! you said your motivation in keeping this group of part timers

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023246
