‘TERSON

she noticed, Epstein ate all the
t for both of them. She found it
osedly brilliant man had left for
he Marquis de Sade. And then
a one of Epstein’s assistants —a
ho told her, “Jeffrey wanted me
tly.
slish features and flowing blond
: then, with a bad case of morn-
, sometimes in public, and these
rt only added to her ever-present
sosedly brilliant, he'd struck her,

nv

e doesnt let the charm slip into
e steely and calculating, giving
nachinery running behind them.
>, after refusing to give an inter-
\ite. You get the first move.’ It was
nan who seems to feel he can win
»f the other side. His advantage is
ow him or his history completely

onsists of. He has carefully engi- 3
ie of the few truly baffling myster> =
ed world. People know snippets, =

s friends gave were glowing: | 4
ll of seeing patterns,” Les Wexner q
.in politics and financial markets, 7
and fashion trends. My skills ate

_have on the girls?”

- Firtuy Ricw

not in investment strategy, and, as everyone who knows Jeffrey
knows, his are not in fashion and design. We frequently discuss
world trends as each of us sees them.”

“[m on my 20th book,” said Alan Dershowitz, who'd met
Epstein in 1997. “The only person outside of my immediate fam-
ily that I send drafts to is Jeffrey.” ‘

But Ward also talked to other sources, who had their own
questions and qualms about Jeffrey Epstein. Some were involved
in lawsuits against him. Others had served on prestigious boards
with him. One who had witnessed Epstein’s aborted stint on the
board of Rockefeller University called him arrogant.

One powerful investment manager wondered about Epstein’s
conspicuous absence from New York's trading floors. “The trad-
ing desks don’t seem to know him,” he says. “It’s unusual for
animals that big to not leave any footprints in the snow.”

Ward uncovered legal documents, including Epstein’s inter-
view with the SEC, given in the wake of his departure from Bear
Stearns. She visited a federal prison in Massachusetts and spoke
at length with Steven Hoffenberg, who told her that Epstein had
made a major mistake in taking Bill Clinton to Africa. “I always
told him to stay below the radar,” Hoffenberg said. He made other
accusations, about Epstein’s financial practices, which Epstein
denied—and Ward knew that Hoffenberg, the Ponzi-scheme

| mastermind, was not to be trusted. But she did find it strange that
' throughout the reporting process Epstein was much less openly
_ concerned with what she'd found out about his finances than

_ with what she'd uncovered about his dealings with women.

Time and again, he would call and ask her: “What do you

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022114
