Inferring Minds Where None
Can Be Seen

The social brain seeks
connections with others. But what is the
foundation that we use to build such
connections? We experience empathy as
a form of emotional resonance and
understanding of other people. This
connection allows us to comfort and
support and celebrate with others. Being
in tune with emotional states of others
allows us to respond in ways that
strengthen a group. But how do we
understand the thoughts and goals of
others? How do we predict choices and
decisions to facilitate cooperation in
groups? Anthropomorphism is the basis
for predicting behavior and thoughts and
goals. Nick Epley discusses how
anthropomorphism is rooted in an
egocentric view of others. Moreover our
view of others is not confined to the
others that are people. It is perhaps
reflective of the deep and fundamental
nature of anthropomorphism in the
social brain that its anthropomorphic
inferences about agents can be derived
from observed behavior, allowing us to
understand “minds” where none may
exist, as in mechanical toys or alarm
clocks. Of course we tend to understand
those minds by thinking they are just
like us.

Even when there is no agent to
be seen, events in the world may be
understood by attributing them to unseen
agents. During World War II, the
bombing of London was demonstrably
random, but citizens of London could
not help but discern intentional patterns
in the attacks. As Epley points out,
hurricanes and floods are even today
attributed to the hand of God, perhaps an
angry God. Clark Gilpin discusses how
religions may use this aspect of the

Page |101

social brain to achieve an understanding
of God and what God wants. This kind
of anthropomorphism can be taken to
different metaphoric extremes in
personifying God as father or friend.
But an overly concrete personification
may have costs perhaps diminishing the
universality and pervasiveness of God in
other religions. Thus religions may
differ in theological perspective on the
value of the anthropomorphic impulse
inherent in the social brain.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021347
