84

met and “everything else is done,” he said “The key will follow.” He was now pulling the strings.
To get that key, she had to follow his instructions.

One of his conditions was that she helps him recruit Greenwald and other outlets for his
disclosures. “The material provided and the investigative effort required will be too much for any
one person,” he wrote Poitras. He next directed her to contact Greenwald. “I recommend that at
the very minimum you involve Greenwald. I believe you know him.” (Snowden apparently did
not tell her that he had unsuccessfully attempted to reach out to Greenwald before he had
contacted her.)

His continued interest in Greenwald was understandable. Aside from Greenwald’s opposition
to what he called the “Surveillance State,” he was a gateway to the Guardian. The Guardian
had become an important player in the business of disclosing government by publishing a large
part of the US documents supplied to Wikileaks. By breaking whistle-blowing stories about US
intelligence, it had also greatly increased the circulation of its website. As an establishment
newspaper, it also gave these Wikileaks stories credibility with the media. So despite
Greenwald’s inability to create an encrypted channel, Snowden still needed him. He had no reason
to believe that Greenwald would turn down the opportunity for a whistle-blowing scoop for the
Guardian. After all, the classified documents Snowden would provide him would also give
credence to both Greenwald’s book and his many blogs denouncing of US government
surveillance.

Aside from Greenwald and Poitras, Snowden sought an outlet inside the American
establishment. So he had Poitras write Barton Gellman, the Pulitzer Prize winning reporter for
the Washington Post. Born in 1960, Gellman graduated from Princeton in 1981, and became an
award-winning investigative reporter from the Miami Herald, Washington Post and Time
magazine. He was also the author of the 2008 book Angler: the Cheney Vice-Presidency, which
been made into an HBO mini-series. If Gellman could be drawn into the enterprise, he could
provide Snowden with a gateway to the Washington Post, the prestigious American paper
credited with bringing down President Richard Nixon in the Watergate scandal.

Poitras, as the go-between for Snowden, immediately contacted Gellman. She already knew
him from meetings they both attended at NYU’s Center on Law and Security. After telling him
she was involved in a story about NSA surveillance, she suggested that they meet in New York
City.

For their rendezvous, Poitras took a number of precautions to evade anyone attempting to
follow her. She had Gellman first meet her in one coffee shop in lower Manhattan. When he
arrived, she had him follow her on foot to another coffee shop following her anti-surveillance
tradecraft. Once assured no one was watching them, she ordered coffee for herself and Gellman.
Over coffee, she told Gellman about Snowden, who she described as her anonymous source. She
said that he was willing to supply Gellman with documents that would expose domestic

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020236
