Before the development of tourism, travel was conceived to be like study, and its fruits were
considered to be the adornment of the mind and the formation of the judgment.

— PAUL FUSSELL, Abroad

The simple willingness to improvise is more vital, in the long run, than research.
—ROLF POTTS, Vagabonding

U,. Sherwood’s return from Oktoberfest, dazed from killing neurons but the happiest he’s been

in four years, the remote trial is made policy and Sherwood is inducted into the world of the New Rich.
All he needs now is an idea of how to exploit this freedom and the tools to give his finite cash near-
infinite lifestyle output.

If you’ve gone through the previous steps, eliminating, automating, and severing the leashes that bind
you to one location, it’s time to indulge in some fantasies and explore the world.

Even if you have no ache for extended travel or think it’s impossible— whether due to marriage or
mortgage or those little things known as children—this chapter is still the next step. There are
fundamental changes I and most others put off until absence (or preparation for it) forces them. This
chapter is your final exam in muse design.

The transformation begins in a small Mexican village, in a parable that’s been shared in various forms
around the world.

Fables and Fortune Hunters

A, American businessman took a vacation to a small coastal Mexican village on doctor’s orders.

Unable to sleep after an urgent phone call from the office the first morning, he walked out to the pier to
clear his head. A small boat with just one fisherman had docked, and inside the boat were several large
yellowfin tuna. The American complimented the Mexican on the quality of his fish.

“How long did it take you to catch them?” the American asked.
“Only a little while,” the Mexican replied in surprisingly good English.
“Why don’t you stay out longer and catch more fish?” the American then asked.

“T have enough to support my family and give a few to friends,” the Mexican said as he unloaded them
into a basket.

“But ... What do you do with the rest of your time?”

The Mexican looked up and smiled. “I sleep late, fish a little, play with my children, take a siesta with
my wife, Julia, and stroll into the village each evening, where I sip wine and play guitar with my amigos.
I have a full and busy life, sefior.”

The American laughed and stood tall. “Sir, ’m a Harvard M.B.A. and can help you. You should spend
more time fishing, and with the proceeds, buy a bigger boat. In no time, you could buy several boats with
the increased haul. Eventually, you would have a fleet of fishing boats.”

He continued, “Instead of selling your catch to a middleman, you would sell directly to the consumers,
eventually opening your own cannery. You would control the product, processing, and distribution. You

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013955
