14

SITUATION ROOM

ust before seven o’clock on the morning of Tuesday, April 4, the seventy-fourth day of
J the Trump presidency, Syrian government forces attacked the rebel-held town of Khan
Sheikhoun with chemical weapons. Scores of children were killed. It was the first time a
major outside event had intruded into the Trump presidency.

Most presidencies are shaped by external crises. The presidency, in its most critical
role, is a reactive job. Much of the alarm about Donald Trump came from the widespread
conviction that he could not be counted on to be cool or deliberate in the face of a storm.
He had been lucky so far: ten weeks in, and he had not been seriously tested. In part this
might have been because the crises generated from inside the White House had
overshadowed all outside contenders.

Even a gruesome attack, even one on children in an already long war, might not yet be
a presidential game changer of the kind that everyone knew would surely come. Still,
these were chemical weapons launched by a repeat offender, Bashar al-Assad. In any other
presidency, such an atrocity would command a considered and, ideally, skillful response.
Obama’s consideration had in fact been less than skillful in proclaiming the use of
chemical weapons as a red line—and then allowing it to be crossed.

Almost nobody in the Trump administration was willing to predict how the president
might react—or even whether he would react. Did he think the chemical attack important
or unimportant? No one could say.

If the Trump White House was as unsettling as any in American history, the president’s
views of foreign policy and the world at large were among its most random, uninformed,
and seemingly capricious aspects. His advisers didn’t know whether he was an isolationist
or a militarist, or whether he could distinguish between the two. He was enamored with
generals and determined that people with military command experience take the lead in
foreign policy, but he hated to be told what to do. He was against nation building, but he
believed there were few situations that he couldn’t personally make better. He had little to
no experience in foreign policy, but he had no respect for the experts, either.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020021
