Licata said the questions from Epstein’s civil lawyers were so intimate that she
became paranoid that people were following her.

“His lawyers were just in my life inside and out. They asked if I had a baby, if I
had an abortion, ‘did you sleep with 30 different guys’ and ‘do you think that
played a part?’ I said, ‘you're going to come at me like that when you represent a
guy who is doing this to hundreds of girls? How do you sleep at night?’ ”

BROOKLYN TO PALM BEACH

Jeffrey Epstein was born in Brooklyn, the son of a New York parks department
worker. In one of several depositions he gave as part of the lawsuits filed against
him, he said he attended the Cooper Union school for the advancement of
science and art and then studied physics at New York University. But he never
obtained a degree, instead going on to teach at the Dalton School, an elite K-12
private academy on Manhattan’s Upper East Side. Various news profiles over the
years have speculated about how he made his vast fortune, calling him an
“International Moneyman of Mystery’’ and “The Talented Mr. Epstein.”

He then struck out on his own, opening J. Epstein & Co. His fortunes improved
when he became a financial advisor for Leslie Wexner, founder of The Limited
stores and owner of Victoria’s Secret brands. Later, Epstein would boast that he
would manage the portfolios of only those clients who had $1 billion or
more.This much is known: He got his start on Wall Street after being offered a
job by the father of one of his students. At Bear Stearns, he became a derivative
specialist, applying complex math formulas and computer algorithms to evaluate
financial data and trends.

Through Wexner, he acquired a seven-story stone mansion that is considered the
largest private residence in Manhattan — a 21,000-square-foot fortress with
heated sidewalks that spans the entire block on 71st Street between Fifth and
Madison Avenues.

He also owns a 10,000-acre ranch, named “Zorro,”’ in New Mexico, a private
island called “Little St. James’ in the Virgin Islands, the $13 million house in
Palm Beach, a Gulfstream jet and, at one point, owned a Boeing 727.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016444
