° Both Arizona State and the Australian National University told her they would look into the matter. But
neither university found against you.

° “Based on the material available to the University, we do not have sufficient evidence to substantiate
the allegations,” Kiaran Kirk, dean of the College of Science at the Australian National University, wrote to her.

° Erin Ellison, who heads Arizona State’s Office of Equity & Inclusion, wrote to her explaining that an
inquiry “did not find a violation of university policy.”

° In October, Arizona State denied a request from BuzzFeed News for documents relating to complaints
of sexual harassment against you. However, Cynthia Jewett, the university's senior associate general
counsel, noted that two individuals, neither affiliated with the university, had complained about you. “The
University did not find either communication to state a credible allegation,” Jewett wrote.

Miscellaneous facts:

° In 2008, you founded the Origins Project at Arizona State University in Tempe, a multidisciplinary effort
to understand the origins of the universe, life, and social systems. You have led that effort ever since.

° Thanks to best-selling books like The Physics of Star Trek and A Universe From Nothing, frequent
essays in publications including the New Yorker and the New York Times, and the documentary you made
with biologist Richard Dawkins, called The Unbelievers, you are celebrated as one of America’s leading public
intellectuals.

° You served on the science policy committee for Barack Obama’s 2008 presidential campaign and are a
vocal critic of President Donald Trump.

please note
The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of
JEE
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited
and may be unlawful. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and
destroy this communication and all copies thereof,
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031440
