In it, Doug pulls back the curtain on his shocking forecast for America in
2016. And how he believes you could set yourself up to profit from it in a big

way... with just one decisive move.

Go here to reserve your spot.

Bonner & Partners | About Bill | The Archives | FAQ

LIKE BILL'S DIARY?

Republish our articles on your website or blog for free. Learn How
Have feedback? Contact Us

This e-mailwassentto = ~~ ~because you subscribed to
this service. It's not our intention to send e-mail to anyone who doesn't want
it.

fo cancel Bil Bonners Diary, ciok nee oe UhisUasiehioS

To cancel by mail or for any other subscription issues, write us at:
Bill Bonner's Diary, 402 West Atlantic Ave., Suite 66, Delray Beach, FL
33444011, USA

Tocontact us, call = = , Mon-Fri: 9am-5pm or email
feedback@bonnerandpartners.com

Having trouble getting your e-mails? Add us to your address book. Get
Instructions here...

Copyright 2016 Bonner & Partners and Bi/i Bonners’ Diary, 402 West Atlantic
Ave., Suite 66, Delray Beach, FL 33444011, USA. All rights reserved. No part
of this report may be reproduced or placed on any electronic medium without
written permission from the publisher. Information contained herein is
obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but its accuracy cannot be
guaranteed. Bill Bonner's Diary or its editors and publications do not advocate
the purchase or sale of any security or investment. Investments recommended
in this publication should be made only after consulting with your investment
advisor and only after reviewing the prospectus or financial statements of the
company in question. Bill Bonner's Diary expressly forbids its writers from
having a financial interest in any security that they recommend to their
readers. Furthermore, all other employees and agents of Bill Bonner's Diary
and its affiliate companies must wait 24 hours before following an initial
recommendation published on the Internet, or 72 hours after a printed
publication is mailed.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028799
