22

in the absence of a neural mechanism that generates unrealistic
optimism, it is possible all humans would be mildly depressed.

Can Optimism Change Reality?

The problem with pessimistic expectations, such as those of the
clinically depressed, is that they have the power to alter the future;
negative expectations shape outcomes in a negative way. How do
expectations change reality?

To answer this question, my colleague, cognitive neuroscientist Sara
Bengtsson, devised an experiment in which she manipulated positive
and negative expectations of students while their brains were scanned
and tested their performance on cognitive tasks. To induce
expectations of success, she primed college students with words such
as smart, intelligent and clever just before asking them to perform a
test. To induce expectations of failure, she primed them with words
like stupid and ignorant. The students performed better after being
primed with an affirmative message.

Examining the brain-imaging data, Bengtsson found that the students
brains responded differently to the mistakes they made depending on
whether they were primed with the word clever or the word stupid.
When the mistake followed positive words, she observed enhanced
activity in the anterior medial part of the prefrontal cortex (a region
that is involved in self-reflection and recollection). However, when
the participants were primed with the word stupid, there was no
heightened activity after a wrong answer. It appears that after being
primed with the word stupid, the brain expected to do poorly and did
not show signs of surprise or conflict when it made an error. A brain
that doesn't expect good results lacks a signal telling it, Take notice —
wrong answer! These brains will fail to learn from their mistakes and
are less likely to improve over time. Expectations become self-
fulfilling by altering our performance and actions, which ultimately
affects what happens in the future. Often, however, expectations

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030289
