4.2.12
WC: 191694

In the middle of the meeting, we received notice that Woody’s lawyers, the very ones we were
discreetly negotiating with, had publicly filed a lawsuit against Mia, and that Woody was about to
hold a press conference in which he was going to accuse Mia of making up stories about him.

I was shocked at this duplicity. I’m not used to dealing with lawyers who mislead their opponents
in this way.

Woody Allen’s suit was seeking custody of several of the children Mia had originally adopted, as
well as the one biological child they had conceived together. IT was an extraordinarily stupid
move on the part of Allen’s lawyers, because at the time he filed the custody suit, Woody Allen
barely knew the children and their siblings, had no idea who their friends were, did not know the
names of their pediatricians and had virtually nothing to do with their upbringing. Mia Farrow, on
the other hand, was a hands-on mother who was deeply involved in every aspect of her children’s
lives.

At the trial, Woody’s lawyers pulled off an even more bone-headed maneuver. They claimed that
Levett and I, by seeking to resolve the matter quietly, were “blackmailing” Woody into settling
the case favorably to Mia. This was a ridiculous claim, as the judge found. Courtroom observers
could not believe that Woody’s lawyers would force me to appear as a witness, knowing that I
would surely side with Mia in her efforts to maintain custody over her children. But having been
falsely accused of trying to blackmail Woody, I had no choice but to testify as to precisely what
had transpired. No one could understand why Woody’s lawyers had decided on a tactic that
would make me a witness. But I knew something they didn’t know, which led me to conclude
that they put me in this position not out of a desire to help Woody, since there was no way my
testimony could in any way support his claim. They accused me of blackmail in an effort to hurt
me. That, at least, was my assessment, based on what I knew.

Why would they want to hurt me rather than help their own client? Because the senior partner of
the law firm representing Woody, a former prosecutor named Robert Morvillo, was seeking
revenge against me for my having prevented him from becoming the United States Attorney for
the Eastern District of New York. That was his dream job and he was about to get it when I
exposed his prosecutorial misconduct in a case I was litigating. He had essentially bribed a key
government witness with money that was owed to the creditors of a bankrupt corporation. He
had arranged for the witness to obtain the bankrupt funds which he knew had been secreted in a
Caribbean account. In doing so, Morvillo had committed two serious crimes: bribing a witness
and facilitating the stealing bankrupt funds. The federal district judge who presided over the case
wrote a scathing opinion condemning Morvillo’s actions. That opinion appeared as a front page
story in the Village Voice, thus scuttling any chance Morvillo had of receiving a federal
appointment. Morvillo was so angry that he told the Village Voice that if he ever saw me again,
he would “deck” me. He never had a chance to throw a punch at me, and so he decided, in my
opinion, to use this lawsuit as a way to deck me. I'll bet that he never told Woody Allen of his
hidden agenda.

As any decent lawyer would expect, the ploy backfired. My letter to Woody, coupled with the

testimony of other lawyers who were involved in the negotiations, proved that my interest was in
protecting the children not in blackmailing Woody. I testified that I was seeking:

285

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017372
