important idea of the scientist Dan Geer to the ever more fraught relations.14”
Perhaps the US and China could work together to buy up and then publish all the
zero days as they emerged, | thought.!48 Instead of the dangerous code falling into
the hands of cybercriminals, Mafiosi and terrorists, the two countries could lead an
effort to jointly buy any new exploit for five times what anyone else would pay - and
then immediately publish what they had bought and the necessary patch. This
would make the network safer for everyone. I should have known better.

The US and China and other nations were (and are) buying world-class zero days.
But they were never going to publish them. They were buying them fo use.
Sometimes against each other. Sometimes, unnervingly, against their own citizens.
And they needed to keep on buying and developing and hiding such tools on an
exhausting, never-ending security treadmill because, unlike traditional weapons,
which could be stockpiled to use whenever they were needed in the future, the holes
of the most valuable zero-days might be patched at any moment, making a once
devastating bit of malware instantly useless. And, as the systems matured and
accelerated, this meant that they had to run ever faster to keep up. Which further
reduced their incentive to “buy and publish” what they did have. Little surprise then
that all around the IT universe in recent years, the incidence of reporting dangerous
bugs has been declining, even as we know the number of known security holes is
certainly growing. 149

Grab the five nearest electronic devices near you and you can be pretty sure each is
vulnerable; which of course means you are vulnerable too. Not merely to the loss of
your secrets, but also to perversion and control. This is the cold truth: that old
hacker ethos, the one spread out so warmly on Amsterdam grass 20 years ago, the
be liberal in what you accept frontier society instinct, is dead. Weird machines and
normal machines, weird networks and normal ones, people made weird by
technological manipulation and those who have note - they will all, inevitably, live
side by side. The more essential machines become to our connected lives, the more
avidly weird and hacked the networks will become. The incentive to whistle up
control of the systems, and control of those of enmeshed in them, is the only thing
that seems to grow faster than the system itself.

Ds

This vulnerability of connected systems is an important mile marker in our route
towards understanding some principles of power in a connected age. “Read over
and over again the campaigns of Alexander, Hannibal, Caesar, Gustavus, Turenne,
Eugene and Frederick,” Napoleon wrote once. “Make them your models. This is the

147 | was thinking: Dan Geer, “Cybersecurity as Realpolitik”, speech delivered at
BlackHat, August 6,2014

148 Perhaps: Joshua Cooper Ramo “Talking Cyberthreat with China”, International
Herald Tribune, July 10, 2013

149 Little surprise: Linder Gayten Back to Basics p. 58

105

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018337
