2. SUMMARY TERMS OF THE TRANSACTION

Certain of the key terms of the offering, which are subject to and qualified in their entirety by reference to
the Limited Partnership Agreement of KUE, the organizational documents of the General Partner and
applicabie Cayman Islands law, are outlined below. The terms summarized herein are sei forth in detail
in the Limited Partnership Agreement of KUE, the Agreement Among Members of KUE Management, Inc.
and the Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association of KUE Management, Inc.,
copies of which have been provided or are available upon request. Such summaries are qualified in their
entirety by reference to such agreements.

Issuers: Knowledge Universe Education L.P., a Cayman Islands
exempted limited partnership (KUE) and KUE Management
Inc., a Cayman Islands exempted company, the general
partner of KUE (the “General Partner’).

Securities Offered: Up to 1,000,000 investment units (the “Units), each
comprised of one Common Limited Partner Unit (“Common
LP Unit) in KUE and one Class A ordinary share (“Class A
Share) of the General Partner at an offering price of U.S.
$1,000 per Unit ($999 allocated te the Common LP Unit and
$1 allocated to the Class A Share) (the Purchase Price) for
aggregate proceeds of U.S. $1 billion (subject to increase in
the offering size by the General Partner at its sole discretion
up to an aggregate of 1,500,000 Units to Investors, with
aggregate proceeds of U.S. $1.5 billion). The offering is
expected to be completed in one or more closings on or
before March 31, 2007 (the “Offering Period”).

Since the General Partner will have a nominal economic
interest in KUE, the Class A Shares are expected to have
nominal economic value. The Class A Shares are, however,
intended to provide Unit holders with certain voting and other
governance rights in the General Partner (as described
further below) which, in turn, will control KUE.

The Common LP Units and the Class A Shares comprising
the Units owned by the investors (the “Investors”) will not be
separately transferable unless otherwise approved by the
Board of Directors of the General Partner and a committee
of Independent Directors (as defined below) (the
“Independent Committee”).

Minimum and Maximum Investment: U.S. $25 million (subject to waiver by the General Partner at
its sole discretion}. At any closing after the first closing of
the offering of the Units, the maximum investment permitted
will be U.S. $185.0 million.

Closing: KUE may accept or reject subscriptions, in whole or in part,
at its sole discretion. KUE will hold one or more closings in
connection with the sale of the Units on dates specified by
KUE to the Investors. The minimum amount of subscriptions
to be accepted in the first closing of the offering {including
the amount attributable to Knowledge Universe Education

27

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024460
