CaYr@even

@ Cconcérn

patients’

1

King

Tespa
physician _
aah ing

i.
=]

framework

a
3p
3

Chapter 15°

'S The lead author is Farr A. Curlin, M.D., a
hospice and palliative care physician, researcher,
and medical ethicist at the University of
Chicago. His empirical research charts the
influence of physicians' moral traditions and
commitments, both religious and secular, on
physicians' clinical practices. As an ethicist he
addresses questions regarding whether and in
what ways physicians' religious commitments
ought to shape their clinical practices in our
plural democracy. Curlin and colleagues have
authored numerous manuscripts published in the
medicine and bioethics literatures, including a
New England Journal of Medicine paper titled,
“Religion, Conscience and Controversial
Clinical Practices.” As founding Director of the
Program on Medicine and Religion at the
University of Chicago, Dr. Curlin is working
with colleagues from the Pritzker School of
Medicine and the University of Chicago Divinity
School to foster inquiry into and public discourse
regarding the intersections of religion and the
practice of medicine.

In the world of contemporary medicine,
science is front and center, and for good reason.
Science provides modern medicine with
extraordinary diagnostic and therapeutic
capacities that can be employed to care for
patients. Yet there is more to medicine than
science can know. Science cannot provide
visions to animate care of the sick, moral
frameworks to guide the application of medical
technology, or practices that nurture and extend
our sociobiological capacity to care for others.
For these medicine turns to religious and secular
moral traditions and practices. This essay
examines how religious concepts are implicit and
operative in practices of medicine and in the
formation of fully human physicians. By
attending to these concepts, we may gain a richer
understanding of the way self-conscious human
practices like medicine both depend on and

Page |139

Social Brain, Spiritual Medicine?

No one ever asks what science
has to do with medicine any more than
they ask what books have to do with
education or what tools have to do with
carpentry. Before the middle of the 19th
century, there was almost nothing that
physicians, however well intended,
could do to actually restore health to the
ill. Modern science changed that. Over
the past century and a half, dramatic
improvements in health outcomes have
been wrought through the application of
sterile surgery techniques, specialized
hospital care, public health measures to
prevent the spread of infectious diseases,
antibiotics to treat those diseases, and
myriad subsequent technologies. All of
these have been undergirded by the
discoveries of biomedical science.

As aresult, the life expectancy in
developed nations has doubled. People
live not only longer but with much less
disability. Diseases that formerly
disfigured and killed, such as smallpox
and polio, have been almost completely
eradicated. Epidemics of malaria, yellow
fever, measles and diphtheria have been
restrained. Injuries from war or other
traumatic events, which in earlier
periods led predictably to death or
profound disability, now can be
ameliorated using sophisticated surgical
reconstruction techniques, advanced
prostheses, and intensive rehabilitation.
Medical science already has
accomplished an extraordinary amount
in alleviating human illness and
forestalling death, and there is good
reason to expect further progress. Yet,
for all that science has made possible,
medicine is animated by other, less
tangible, forces.

extend our unique, human, biopsychosocial
capacities.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021385
