Business Expansion Portfolio and Prospectus
Twin City Care of The Virgin Islands
11

Past

Prior to TCMIH there were no Advance Life Support Ambulance providing interfacility service
on St. Croix and the Governor Juan F. Luis Hospital was left on numerous occasions with patients
who were discharged tying up beds. Transports for Patients who need stretcher services were being
transported by the 911 emergency ambulances after no alternatives were provided. The research
show that an overwhelming number of patients that need stretcher transportation and medical
monitoring could not be provided by the current services on St. Croix.

Present

Presently, the competitor, Wheel Coach Services, hasn’t the ability or the authorization to bill the
customers insurance and in many cases the patients and family members will have to pay for their
own ambulance / stretcher transportation home. The request for Non-emergency ambulance
services has experienced an increase on St. Croix 88-92% and has been channeled through the 911
system. Today we also find a lack of Non-emergency ambulance services to provide timely
transportation. This constantly creates a multi-tiered domino effect when patients cannot be moved
out of the hospital. Discharged patients are tying up valuable beds, family members are angry and
receiving facilities are not going to accept late patients. Current reimbursements of ambulance
services that are medically necessary are at 100% if filed correctly.

Future

With the present situation of the Governor Juan F. Luis & Lester Schneider Hospital the need to
mobilize patients frequently, has caused a growth spurt within the district of St. Croix, St. Thomas,
St. John and will continue to grow. This growth will be perpetuated by the hospitals need to
transport patients from its facility to either a nursing home or home healthcare. Twin City will
currently fill part of the void by providing non-emergency and urgent advance life support
ambulance transport to and from JFLH, nursing homes and other health facilities / organizations
which would avoid much needed bed delays.

Service Definition

Non-Medical Stretcher service is stretcher patient transportation that requires no medical attention
or treatment. The service is provided by utilizing a high-top van with a stretcher mounted in the
back or transport of a patient in an ambulance without providing basic medical care / monitoring
and is being provided by Wheel Coach Services locally. Twin City will provide Ambulance
services which are categorized in the following manner and staffing patterns:

1. ALS ambulance services — One (1) AEMT and One (1) EMR or EMT
2. ALS 2 ambulance services — One (1) Paramedic and One (1) AEMT or EMT

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029486
