86 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

most meetings an hour, there are another 57 minutes to fill! These off
topic items bring in social experience and help us form the background
context we need to properly communicate.

What is Background Context?

Alex and Bella are both fans of the British comedy duo, the Two Ronnies,
and enjoy their learning Swedish sketch. Bella asks Alex what kind of
sandwich he wants for lunch. Alex replies ‘M’ Bella laughs. If you have
seen the sketch you will understand the background context to the joke.
If not this paragraph might as well have been in Swedish. Take a look at
the sketch on YouTube and reread this paragraph... Now you understand.

Do I think in English?

Most scientists believe we think thoughts using language, but most
scientists writing about thought are linguists or psychologists. If you are
a dyslexic engineer like me, language is a long way down the processing
chain. I think abstractly and then translate those thoughts into words.
Some ideas don’t map between languages and often, one language adopts
the words of another to fill in the gaps. Some interesting examples are:

Zeitgeist German, spirit of the times
Schadenfreude German, enjoying others misfortune
Chutzpah Hebrew, audacity

All of these are fully signed up, card carrying entries in the Oxford
English Dictionary.

Some languages have fewer distinctions between ideas: truth and
law are the same word, ‘torah, in Hebrew. Languages have different
tenses and structure. In Chinese all words are one syllable and the script
is pictographic rather than phonetic. This is unusual, even Egyptian
and linear-B, which look pictographic are mostly phonetic. With single
syllable words, Chinese uses voice inflection to change meaning; a rising
or falling tone can change the meaning of a word from ‘grey’ to ‘girl’
In many Western languages rising voice inflection is used to indicate a
question, as in Australian English or irritation, as in English English. So
how do the Chinese show if they are annoyed or want to ask a question?
They elongate their words and accentuate the changes in intonation.
An argument in Chinese can sound quite alarming to the Western ear,
with its percussive monosyllables and extreme inflection changes. This

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015776
