article quoted a deposition by then-Palm Beach Chief of Police Michael Reiter, in which he
stated that Epstein, a billionaire with many powerful friends, had received special treatment in
both his plea deal and the terms of his incarceration. Although federal investigators at one point
produced a draft 53-page indictment against Epstein, he was eventually allowed to plead guilty
to only two relatively minor state charges and receive a short term of incarceration: 13 months in
the county jail, during which he went to the office every day, and one year of community control,
during which he traveled frequently to New York and his private island in the Virgin Islands.

The Daily Beast has now discovered another instance in which Epstein apparently received
special consideration: As a convicted sex offender, he is required by law to undergo an impartial
psychological evaluation prior to sentencing and to receive psychiatric treatment during and after
incarceration. This is because child molesters tend to be repeat offenders with high rates of
recidivism. According to a source in law enforcement, however, Epstein was allowed to submit a
report by his private psychologist, Dr. Stephen Alexander of Palm Beach, Florida, whose phone
has since been disconnected with no forwarding information.

The Daily Beast’s second article provided details about Epstein’s systematic abuse of underage
girls at his Palm Beach mansion, where members of his staff allegedly recruited and paid a
parade of teenagers, most of them 16 or younger, to perform daily massages that devolved into
masturbation, groping, and sometimes full-blown sexual contact. It also revealed a monetary
relationship between Epstein and Jean Luc Brunel, a frequent visitor to whom he gave $1 million
around the same time that Brunel was starting his MC2 modeling agency. Some of the young
girls MC2 recruited from overseas—often from Eastern Europe and South America—are known
to have been passengers on Epstein’s private jets.

The U.S. Attorney General’s Office in Florida says that it is against policy to confirm or deny the
existence of an investigation. Jeffrey Epstein’s lawyer, Jack Goldberger, says he has no
knowledge of an ongoing probe, and he told The Daily Beast, Jeffrey Epstein has fully
complied with all state and federal requirements that arise from the prior proceedings in Palm
Beach. There are no pending civil lawsuits. There are not and should not be any pending criminal
investigations, given Mr. Epstein’s complete fulfillment of all the terms of his non-prosecution
agreement with the federal government.

Conchita Sarnoff has developed multimedia communication programs for Fortune 500
companies and has produced three current-events debate TV programs, The Americas Forum,
From Beirut to Kabul, and a segment for The Oppenheimer Report . She is writing a book about
child trafficking in America

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011928
