A. Marie Villafafia was the lead federal prosecutor in the Jeffrey Epstein sex case. The U.S. attorney’s office’s handling of

the prosecution, which led to a plea to minor charges in state court, has been harshly criticized.

Later that year, Acosta and Villafafia put together a plea bargain for Epstein, a
multimillionaire money manager who sexually abused nearly three dozen teenage
girls at his mansion in Palm Beach. The deal, a federal judge ruled last month, was
intentionally kept from his victims in violation of the Crime Victims’ Rights Act.

While the two cases are unrelated, it shows that both Acosta and Villafana had been
warned about the importance of victim disclosure in sex crimes cases before the
Epstein agreement. They nevertheless forged ahead with a pact with Epstein that
violated the law.

U.S. District Court Judge Kenneth A. Marra wrote: “When the Government gives
information to victims, it cannot be misleading. While the Government spent untold
hours negotiating the terms and implications of the [agreement] with Epstein’s
attorneys, scant information was shared with victims.”

This comes as Acosta, who is now the U.S. secretary of labor, is facing mounting
scrutiny for his oversight of the Epstein case. On Monday, White House press
secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders declined to say whether President Trump has full
confidence in Acosta, noting that Acosta’s involvement in the Epstein case is
“currently under review.”

The Justice Department launched a probe in January into whether Acosta, Villafafia
and other prosecutors committed professional misconduct.

Francey Hakes, who worked in the Justice Department’s Crimes Against Children
unit, said Zloch’s comments were so brutal that it should have deterred Acosta and
Villafafia from keeping the deal secret.

“Tt is highly unusual for a court to allege an assistant U.S. attorney has intentionally
withheld information. That allegation is like dropping a bomb in the legal
community,” she said.

The story behind a Palm Beach sex offender’s remarkable deal

Palm Beach multimillionaire Jeffrey Epstein is a free man, despite sexually abusing
dozens of underage girls according to police and prosecutors. His victims have never
had a voice, until now.

“Tt seems to show that they are not taking these cases very seriously, they are not
advocating for strong punishment for sexual predators, and not advocating for
victims in a meaningful way. °

Villafana, a well-regarded 18-year veteran federal prosecutor, would not comment
for this story. But her lawyer, Jonathan Biran, said she has worked tirelessly on

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021742
