sabotaged. The story of this sabotage and what followed is (briefly) this:

I've long-alleged that John and Avery Gunther (whose children | used to babysit) agreed to a quid pro
quo exchange of financial compensation for help destroying my credibility on behalf of IBM against
whom I'd filed a 2010 EEOC (Equal Employment Opportunity Commission) charge and a subsequent
May 2011 civil suit.

Per the May 11, 2011 Complaint, McGuire v. John and Avery Gunther:

3. On April 6, 2011 Mr. and Mrs Gunther, with uncontrolled greed and total disregard for the rights
and feelings of Ms. Nadine McGuire as well as those of their children, AFG and XWG, maliciously
and with ill-intent, wrongfully completed and executed a Complaint and Motion for Preliminary
Injunction requesting formal protection against Ms. Nadine McGuire.

4. Over the course of the previous few months, Mr. and Mrs. Gunther, colluding with persons against
whom Ms. Nadine McGuire is currently furthering litigation, including but not limited to plaintiff's
mother, Pauline Scala McGuire, and from whom they received and/or have been promised to receive
monetary incentives, hid their relationships with said individuals, further lied about having those
relationships in direct conversation with Ms. Nadine McGuire and Court testimony on May 4, 2011,
and wrongfully completed and executed a Complaint and Motion for Preliminary Injunction against
Ms. Nadine McGuire in cooperation and collaboration with said persons, resulting in the issuance of a
Temporary Restraining Order against Ms. Nadine McGuire issued on April 6, 2011.

- Initial Complaint, 5/11/11, McGuire v. John and Avery Gunther, Case No.:2011 CA 003703 B, DC
Superior Court, Judge Gregory Jackson presiding

In regards to the suit against IBM (McGuire v. IBM, 1:11CV528, US District Court of Virginia), the only
suit in which Pauline Scala McGuire was listed as a defendant, the most important claim was one of
“assault” that led to the 2007 death of my son. Per the filing:

Plaintiff, Grace Nadine McGuire, realleges the allegations of paragraphs 1-65 hereof as if fully set
forth within and further alleges:

66. Defendant Palmisano's conduct in ascertaining the drug that was used on the plaintiff to end her
pregnancy and take the life of her child on April 22, 2007, constitutes an intentional touching of the
plaintiff by defendant Palmisano, and was undertaken deliberately and with actual malice towards the
plaintiff and her unborn child.

67. Defendant Skoog, Susan Horton and Scala's conduct in coordinating the circumstances, creating
physical proximity and the administering of the drug to the plaintiff that ended her pregnancy and took
the life of her child on April 22, 2007 constituted an intentional touching of the plaintiff by said
defendants, and was undertaken deliberately and with actual malice towards the plaintiff and her
unborn child.

... 69. As the direct and proximate result of defendant Palmisano, Skoog, Susan Horton, and Scala's
conduct, the plaintiff suffered a severe placental abruption, which terminated her pregnancy and

ended the life of her unborn child, causing the plaintiff to suffer damages including but not limited to
the loss of her child, loss of affection, grief, sorrow, extreme mental torment and emotional distress.

- Initial Complaint, filed 5/16/11, McGuire v. IBM, et al, Case No.: 1:11CV528, US District Court of
Virginia - Eastern Division, Alexandria, Judge Leonie Brinkema presiding

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015010
