32

HERE IS the dilemma. Yes, a social contract of sorts exists between
these citizens and their regimes: in return for impressive economic-
growth rates the people agree to forego their desire to replace their
leaders. (Truly, East Asian autocracies have not robbed people of
their dignity the way Middle Eastern ones have.) But even as such
growth rates continue unabated—to say nothing of if they collapse or
even slow down—at higher income levels, this social contract may
peter out. For as people become middle class, they gain access to
global culture and trends, which prompts a desire for political
freedoms to go along with their personal ones. This is why
authoritarian capitalism may be just a phase, rather than a viable
alternative to Western democracy.

To be sure, once the basic issues of food and security have been
addressed, pace Mill and Berlin, democracy retains a better
possibility of getting it right than autocracy. This is because virtuous
autocracies are hard to come by and usually rely on the genius of
personality; whereas democracy, regardless of the personalities
involved, is systemically better positioned to lead citizenries along
the path of development. Of course, we will have to wait until
China’s economic growth slows down, or, failing that, continues until
enough Chinese have more access to global culture. Only then can we
really begin to draw conclusions about whether democracy represents
the final triumph of reason in politics.

The genius of both Rome and America lies ultimately in their
institutions, which allowed in the first place for their freedoms. True,
the history of Rome—and particularly the death of the Roman
Republic—is not in the least uplifting relative to the cause of political
expression. But it was Rome’s ability to provide a modicum of
stability to parts of central Europe and the entire Mediterranean basin—
and thus further the cause of personal freedoms (mind you, by the
dismal standards of the era)—that is key to its achievement; and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_032202
