2017 OUTLOOK

Dear Clients,

Readers of our previous Outlook publications may recall that this page typically
summarizes the key themes of our economic and financial market prospects for the
coming year. However, for 2017 we decided that a brief overview would not suffice,
given the current environment of high market valuations, great policy uncertainty,
significant geopolitical tensions and, in all likelihood, an unconventional US
presidency.

Since the trough of the global financial crisis, we have consistently emphasized US
preeminence and maintained a strategic overweight to US equities relative to global
market capitalization-weighted benchmarks. Tactically, we have had an overweight
allocation to US equities and US high yield bonds from as early as mid-2008. Even
when US equities became more expensive, we continued to recommend that clients
stay fully invested at their strategic allocations. Indeed, we have reiterated that
recommendation in our past Outlook publications, client calls and Sunday Night
Insight reports as many as 59 times since January 2010.

But now we have crossed into the 10th decile of valuations: US equities have been
more expensive than current levels only 10% of the time in the post-WWII period.
Yet we continue to recommend staying the course. We are duly aware that this
recommendation is long in the tooth, particularly given such high valuations and the
unusually high level of policy uncertainty.

Policy uncertainty, both economic and political, abounds globally: uncertainty with
respect to Brexit (the how and when), upcoming elections in Germany and France
(the who), transitional government in Italy (the how long followed by what) and new
appointments to the Standing Committee in China and their significance (the who and
what of any reform agenda), to name a few.

We are also facing rising geopolitical tensions that could trigger significant market
volatility. Tensions in the Middle East will not abate. Greater Russian involvement
in that region is stabilizing in some respects and destabilizing in others. Further
Russian incursions into Eastern Europe may elicit a more robust reaction from the
West. Terrorism could spread in the US and Europe as ISIL (Islamic State of Iraq and
the Levant) loses territory in Iraq and Syria and foreign fighters return home. North

Outlook | Investment Strategy Group 1

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014534
