174 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

SHEVARDNADZE: SO he [Snowden] does have some materials that
haven’t been made public yet?
KucHERENA: Certainly.

Shevardnadze asked the next logical question: “Why did Russia
get involved in this whole thing if it got nothing out of it?”

“Snowden spent quite a few years working for the CIA. We haven’t
fully realized yet the importance of his revelations.” Kucherena was
on the FSB’s public oversight board. He was clearly in the picture.
Kucherena’s answer was completely consistent with the statement
Snowden made three weeks after arriving in Russia in his previ-
ously mentioned e-mail to Senator Humphrey.

It is certainly possible that Snowden transferred the NSA files
from his own computers and thumb drives to storage on a remote
server in the cloud before coming to Russia. The “cloud” is actually
not in the sky but a term used for remote storage servers, such as
those provided by Dropbox, Microsoft, Google, Amazon, and other
Internet companies. Anyone who is connected to the Internet can

© store and retrieve files by entering a user name and a password. ©

For Kucherena to be certain Snowden had access to the so-far-
unrevealed data, Snowden must have demonstrated his access either
to him or to the authorities. The Russians obviously knew Snowden
had the means to retrieve this data one way or the other. Because the
data concerned electronic espionage against Russia, the FSB would
have been keen to obtain the documents, and the FSB is not known
to take no for an answer in issues involving espionage.

Even if Snowden refused to furnish his key encryption, accord-
ing to a former National Security Council staffer, the Russian cyber
service in 2013 had the means, the time, and the incentive to break
the encryption. It is unlikely it would have had to go through the
trouble. It doesn’t take a great stretch of the imagination to conclude
that, willingly or under duress, Snowden shared his access to his
treasure trove of documents with the agencies that were literally in
control of his life in Russia.

Kucherena’s answer on the television program may also help to
explain Putin’s decision to allow Snowden to come to Moscow. It
was not a minor sacrifice for Putin. His foreign minister, Sergei Lav-

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 174 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019662
