has taken steps to make certain that the code of conduct
remains current and effective and whether a company has
periodically reviewed and updated its code.

Whether a company has policies and procedures that
outline responsibilities for compliance within the company,
detail proper internal controls, auditing practices, and doc-
umentation policies, and set forth disciplinary procedures
will also be considered by DOJ and SEC. These types of
policies and procedures will depend on the size and nature
of the business and the risks associated with the business.
Effective policies and procedures require an in-depth
understanding of the company’s business model, includ-
ing its products and services, third-party agents, custom-
ers, government interactions, and industry and geographic
risks. Among the risks that a company may need to address
include the nature and extent of transactions with foreign
governments, including payments to foreign officials; use
of third parties; gifts, travel, and entertainment expenses;
charitable and political donations; and facilitating and
expediting payments. For example, some companies with
global operations have created web-based approval pro-
cesses to review and approve routine gifts, travel, and enter-
tainment involving foreign officials and private customers
with clear monetary limits and annual limitations. Many of
these systems have built-in flexibility so that senior manage-
ment, or in-house legal counsel, can be apprised of and, in
appropriate circumstances, approve unique requests. These
types of systems can be a good way to conserve corporate
resources while, if properly implemented, preventing and
detecting potential FCPA violations.

Regardless of the specific policies and procedures
implemented, these standards should apply to personnel at

all levels of the company.

Oversight, Autonomy, and Resources

In appraising a compliance program, DOJ and SEC
also consider whether a company has assigned respon-
sibility for the oversight and implementation of a com-
pany’s compliance program to one or more specific senior
executives within an organization.*”? Those individuals

must have appropriate authority within the organization,

Guiding Principles
of Enforcement

adequate autonomy from management, and sufficient
resources to ensure that the company’s compliance program
is implemented effectively?’ Adequate autonomy gener-
ally includes direct access to an organization’s governing
authority, such as the board of directors and committees
of the board of directors (e.g., the audit committee)3”
Depending on the size and structure of an organization,
it may be appropriate for day-to-day operational responsi-
bility to be delegated to other specific individuals within
a company.*® DOJ and SEC recognize that the reporting
structure will depend on the size and complexity of an
organization. Moreover, the amount of resources devoted
to compliance will depend on the company’s size, complex-
ity, industry, geographical reach, and risks associated with
the business. In assessing whether a company has reasonable
internal controls, DOJ and SEC typically consider whether
the company devoted adequate staffing and resources to the

compliance program given the size, structure, and risk pro-

file of the business.

Risk Assessment

Assessment of risk is fundamental to developing a
strong compliance program, and is another factor DOJ
and SEC evaluate when assessing a company’s compliance
program.?!” One-size-fits-all compliance programs are
generally ill-conceived and ineffective because resources
inevitably are spread too thin, with too much focus on low-
risk markets and transactions to the detriment of high-risk
areas. Devoting a disproportionate amount of time polic-
ing modest entertainment and gift-giving instead of focus-
ing on large government bids, questionable payments to
third-party consultants, or excessive discounts to resellers
and distributors may indicate that a company’s compli-
ance program is ineffective. A $50 million contract with a

government agency in a high-risk country warrants greater

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022560

