such high prospects lowering herself to something of Jeffrey’s standards,
but I later found out through Jeffrey that he had donated money to her
continuous exploration into marine life and habitats. She had followed in
her family’s footsteps, all of them involved in Marine Biology in some
way or another. We actually got along really well, she was a real decent
girl, and loved talking about her passion, everything underneath the
waters surface.

When I wasn’t busy giving massages to everyone around, her and I
would hang out together. Often we go swimming in the crystal clear pool
of ocean that the Caribbean had to offer. Once we swam out so far not
paying attention to our location and were carried out to sea by the current.
We took tums on the backs of each other, taking breaks against the strong
ocean tide. It was almost a possibility that we nearly drowned out there, if
it weren’t for some guys on a boat out fishing for the day when they
caught us in their view. They picked us up and brought us back to the
island where we were reprimanded by a worried Jeffrey and Ghislane to
first of all let someone know where we are going at all times, and never
to lose sight of the shore while out for a swim. After that learning
experience | took their heed and proceeded with caution. [ had a
newfound respect for the ocean and it’s mysteries.

Having such a lover of the water as a guest, made Jeffrey want to
explore parts of his Caribbean he had never seen before. The next
morning we were met by a scuba instructor in St. James and given a few
lessons in how to use the gear and more tips like how to descend slowly
to the ocean floor as not to cause blood clots as well as visual hand
signals to communicate underwater. It was so exhilarating beneath the
waters surface. No voices to listen too, only the enchanting sights to take
in. We explored the surrounding reef and found a large squid, many of
sea urchins, and the magnificent colored coral that housed a many of the
rich variety of the local species of fish. It was such a great sight to take
in. Holding a permanent mental picture of those adventures to carry in my
head for all times.

We all had such a great time that Jeffrey hired the same scuba
instructor to come out the next day to scuba dive the safer parts around
his island. We got bored quickly with not much to see but seaweed and a
fish here and there. It didn’t take long before Ghislane decided for us all
to explore other numerous locations by boat, Jeffrey needed a bit of
convincing at first and the instructor was quick to assure him that he
knew his way well around these waters, of course he would say that, he
was getting paid a hell of lot to do this in the first place, why not extend
it a few more hours?

The clear water glistened and the tropical array of marine life was on
display as we wanted to stop at so many places but you could see as

69

beautiful as it was it could be as equally dangerous. [t took so long as we
had to veer away from so many desirable spots. Finally we found a good
place that the scuba instructor thought was safe. He buddied us up into
pairs and we jumped off the back of the boat into the crystal aqua blue
waters beginning our descent slowly into the darker regions of the oceans
floor. We were situated on open water with a cavern of reefs to venture in
and around down below. It seemed to be quite a choice to scuba in, one
that our guide said he wasn’t familiar with but to alleviate his bored
clientele deemed safe to swim around.

It was Jeffrey and the Guide together, Ghislane and Emmy, and I was
paired up with Alexandria. Miles, the houseman, came with us and stayed
on the boat just in case something went wrong and lucky he did. We were
all too far under the water to hear his alarming screams of distress when
shadow’s lurking in the murky distance started appearing closer and
closer. Ghislane actually looked frightened for once as she gave us the
signal to start ascending upwards, reminding us by holding her ears not to
go up to quick or as we were previously warned before we could pop a
blood vessel in our brain and hemorrhage to death, not a very lovely
image but neither was getting torn apart by sharks. Those giant shadows
became clearer and soon enough we could recognize their indistinct
species as the terrifying and more aggressive breed of sharks, the
hammerhead. Grabbing Miles hand | was the last one ahead of the Guide
to get on the boat imaging the worst as I waited behind Emmy and
Alexandria who were the next to follow after Jeffrey and Ghislane I was
in too much shock to scream or cry, | just told myself I had to stay calm
to get out of this alive. Unlucky for us we found out later on that we were
in their breeding territory and being sent a clear message that we were
soon to be on the menu to their feeding frenzy.

We all felt like we had cheated death and I know it wasn’t only my
heart that was still beating out of my chest when we headed back to

Jeffrey’s island. Jeffrey was pale as his designer sheets and looked like he

had aged another ten years in such a scared state. Ghislane took the heat
off herself even barely taking a notice of beforehand and decided to poke
fun at all of us frantically scurrying to get out of the water, it was just her
nature, as I had never seen her move so quickly either. We got back to the
island and all collapsed our fatigued bodies in our own beds for a long
nap. Freshened up and much more relaxed we regaled our horrendous
story again over dinner, this time in laughter. The following afternoon
Ghislane piloted us all in the helicopter to St. John’s Airport and we said
good-bye to Alexandra where we all parted ways. I met her a few more
separate times in Palm Beach at Jeffrey’s Mansion, but she wasn't a
regular of his, probably not as easy as the troubled girls were to bribe.

70

! Copyright Protected Material 1 Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004202 CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFREO04 203

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021179
