Case 1:19-cv-03377 Document 1-8 Filed 04/16/19 Page 7 of 16

http://www.vanityfair.com/news/2003/03/jeffrey-epstein-200303

Some friends remember that in the late 80s Epstein would offer to upgrade the airline tickets of
good friends by affixing first-class stickers; the only problem was that the stickers turned out to
be unofficial. Sometimes the technique worked, but other times it didn’t, and the unwitting
recipients found themselves exiled to coach. (Epstein has claimed that he paid for the upgrades,
and had no knowledge of the stickers.) Many of those who benefited from Epstein’s largesse
claim that his generosity comes with no strings attached. “I never felt he wanted anything from
me in return,” says one old friend, who received a first-class upgrade.

Epstein is known about town as a man who loves women—lots of them, mostly young. Model
types have been heard saying they are full of gratitude to Epstein for flying them around, and he
is a familiar face to many of the Victoria’s Secret girls. One young woman recalls being
summoned by Ghislaine Maxwell to a concert at Epstein’s town house, where the women
seemed to outnumber the men by far. “These were not women you’d see at Upper East Side
dinners,” the woman recalls. “Many seemed foreign and dressed a little bizarrely.” This same
guest also attended a cocktail party thrown by Maxwell that Prince Andrew attended, which was
filled, she says, with young Russian models. “Some of the guests were horrified,” the woman
says.

“He’s reckless,” says a former business associate, “and he’s gotten more so. Money does that to
you. He’s breaking the oath he made to himself—that he would never do anything that would
expose him in the media. Right now, in the wake of the publicity following his trip with Clinton,
he must be in a very difficult place.”

According to S.E.C. and other legal documents unearthed by VANITY FAIR, Epstein may have
good reason to keep his past cloaked in secrecy: his real mentor, it might seem, was not Leslie
Wexner but Steven Jude Hoffenberg, 57, who, for a few months before the S.E.C. sued to freeze
his assets in 1993, was trying to buy the New York Post. He is currently incarcerated in the
Federal Medical Center in Devens, Massachusetts, serving a 20-year sentence for bilking
investors out of more than $450 million in one of the largest Ponzi schemes in American history.

When Epstein met Hoffenberg in London in the 1980s, the latter was the charismatic, audacious
head of the Towers Financial Corporation, a collection agency that was supposed to buy debts
that people owed to hospitals, banks, and phone companies. But Hoffenberg began using
company funds to pay off earlier investors and service a lavish lifestyle that included a mansion
on Long Island, homes on Manhattan’s Sutton Place and in Florida, and a fleet of cars and
planes.

Hoffenberg and Epstein had much in common. Both were smart and obsessed with making
money. Both were from Brooklyn. According to Hoffenberg, the two men were introduced by
Douglas Leese, a defense contractor. Epstein has said they were introduced by John Mitchell, the
late attorney general.

Epstein had been running International Assets Group Inc. (I.A.G.), a consulting company, out of
his apartment in the Solo building on East 66th Street in New York. Though he has claimed that
he managed money for billionaires only, in a 1989 deposition he testified that he spent 80
percent of his time assisting people recover stolen money from fraudulent brokers and lawyers.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017777
