54032

Federal Register/Vol. 76, No. 168/Tuesday, August 30, 2011/Rules and Regulations

employee rights as well as a remedial
notice.14° 75 FR 80414.

The comments opposing this proposal
make three principal arguments. First,
only Congress, not the Board, has the
authority to ‘create a new unfair labor
practice.” 141 Second, even if the Board
possesses such authority, it has not
identified the Section 7 rights that
would be interfered with by an
employer’s failure to post the notice.142
Third, “interfer[ing] with, restrain[ing],
or coercling]’’ employees within the
meaning of NLRA Section 8(a)(1)
necessarily involves action, not failure
to act; therefore, failure to post the
notice cannot violate Section 8(a)(1).14%
The Board finds no merit in any of these
contentions.

To begin with, it is incorrect to say
that the Board lacks the authority to find
that failure to post the notice violates
Section 8(a)(1) without Congressional
approval. It is true, as the Society for
Human Resource Management states,
that “Section 10(a) of the Act
specifically limits the NLRB’s powers to
preventing only the unfair labor
practices listed in Section 8 of the Act.
Section 8 is silent regarding any notice
posting requirement (emphasis in
original).’”” However, as the Supreme
Court remarked long ago,

The [NLRA] did not undertake the
impossible task of specifying in precise and
unmistakable language each incident which
would constitute an unfair labor practice. On
the contrary that Act left to the Board the
work of applying the Act’s general
prohibitory language in the light of the
infinite combinations of events which might
be charged as violative of its terms. Thus a
“rigid scheme of remedies” is avoided and
administrative flexibility within appropriate
statutory limitations obtained to accomplish
the dominant purpose of the legislation.

Republic Aviation Corporation v. NLRB,
324 U.S. 793, 798 (1945) (citation
omitted). Accordingly, since its
creation, the Board in interpreting
Section 8(a)(1) has found numerous
actions as to which “Section 8 is

silent” —e.g., coercively interrogating
employees about their protected
concerted activities, engaging in

140 Consistent with precedent, it will be unlawful
for an employer to threaten or retaliate against an
employee for filing charges or testifying in a Board
proceeding involving an alleged violation of the
notice-posting requirement. NLRA Sections 8(a)(1),
8(a)(4), 29 U.S.C. 158(a)(1), (4); Romar Refuse
Removal, 314 NLRB 658 (1994).

141 See, e.g., comments of FMI, Assisted Living
Federation of America (ALFA).

142 See, e.g., comment of U. S. Chamber of
Commerce.

143 See, e.g., comments of Employment and Labor
Law Committee, Association of Corporate Counsel
(“ACC”); California Chamber of Commerce
(California Chamber); and National Council of
Agricultural Employers (NCAE).

surveillance of employees’ union
activities, threatening employees with
retaliation for engaging in protected
activities—to violate Section 8(a)(1) by
“interfer[ing] with, restrain[ing], or
coerc[ing] employees in the exercise of
the rights guaranteed in section 7” of
the NLRA. Section 8 is equally silent
concerning unions’ duty to inform
employees of their rights under NLKB v.
General Motors, above, and
Communications Workers v. Beck,
above, before attempting to obligate
them pursuant to a union-securily
clause, yet the Board finds that a
union’s failure to provide that notice
restrains and coerces employees in
violation of Section 8(b)(1)(A).
California Saw & Knife Works, above,
320 NLRB at 233, 259, 261.144

Because, as described in detail above,
notice posting is necessary to ensure
effective exercise of Section 7 rights, a
refusal to post the required notice is at
least an interference with employees’
exercise of those rights. For these
reasons, in finding that an employer’s
failure to post the required notice
interferes with, restrains, or coerces
employees in the exercise of their NLRA
rights, in violation of Section 8(a)(1), the
Board is acting consistently with its
settled practice. Some comments claim
that the Board has not identified any
specific Section 7 right to justify this
remedy. But such specificity is not
needed, because all Section 7 rights are
implicated by an employer’s failure to
post the required notice. As previously
stated, there is a strong nexus between
knowledge of Section 7 rights and their
free exercise. It therefore follows that an
employer’s failure to post this notice,
which informs employees of their
Section 7 rights, reasonably tends to
interfere with the exercise of such
rights.

Finally, although most violations of
the NLRA involve actions rather than
failures to act, there are instances in
which a failure to act may be found to
interfere with, restrain, or coerce
employees in the exercise of their
Section 7 rights. Thus, a union’s failure
to provide the required notices under
NLRB v. General Motors, above, and

144 See Harkin and Miller. Although the Board
suggested in a footnote in California Saw that there
was no obligation to inform employees of their
Section 7 rights, 320 NLRB at 232 n. 42, this dicta
merely indicated that no such obligation had yet
been recognized in that particular context. To the
extent it could be read as denying that such an
obligation may exist, it is the considered view of the
Board that this reading must be rejected. Similarly,
the statement in U.S. Postal Service, 241 N.L.R.B.
141, 152 (1979), regarding affirmative notice
obligations is limited to Weingarten rights, and, in
any event, does not suggest that notice of NLRA
rights may never be required.

Communications Workers v. Beck,
above, violates Section 8(b)(1)(A) of the
NLRA. California Saw & Knife Works,
above, 320 NLRB at 233, 259, 261. An
employer that fails or refuses to execute
an agreed-to collective-bargaining
agreement on request of the union
violates Section 8(d), 8(a)(5) and,
derivatively, Section 8(a)(1). An
employer that fails to provide relevant
information requested by the union that
represents the employer’s employees
violates Section 8(a)(5) and (1). See, e.g.,
NLEB v. Truitt Mfg. Co., 351 U.S. 149
(1956).

The NLRA’s recognition that a failure
to perform a legal duty may constitute
unlawful interference, coercion or
restraint is not unique. Courts have
expressly held that the failure to post
notice required by regulation can be an
“interference” with employee Family
and Medical Leave Act rights. In a
provision that “largely mimics thle
language of] § 8(a)(1) of the NLRA,”
Bachelder v. Am. W. Airlines, 259 F. 3d
1112, 1123 (9th Cir. 2001), the FMLA
states that “‘[i]t shall be unlawful for any
employer to interfere with, restrain, or
deny the exercise of or the attempt to
exercise, any right provided under this
title.” 29 U.S.C. 2615(a)(1). In
interpreting this language, the
Department of Labor’s regulations
specifically state that failure to post the
required notice of FMLA rights “may
constitute an interference with,
restraint, or denial of the exercise of an
employee’s FMLA rights” under section
2615(a)(1). 29 CFR 825.300(e). Courts
have agreed, finding that the failure to
provide FMLA notices is an “adverse
action” against the employee that
supports a prima facie case of
interference. Greenwell v. Charles
Machine Works, Inc., (W.D. Ok. April
15, 2011); Smith v. Westchester County,
(S.D.N.Y. February 14, 2011).
Accordingly, the Board finds no
impediment to declaring that an
employer’s failure to post the required
notice will violate Section 8(a)(1).145

As it explained in the NPRM,
however, the Board expects that, in
practice, few violations will be found
for failures to post the notice. The Board
anticipates that most employers that fail
to post the notice will do so because
they are unaware of the rule, and that
when they learn about the rule, they
will post the notice without the need for
formal administrative action or
litigation. 75 FR 80414. To that end,

§ 104.212(a) of the rule states that if an

145 ALFA contends that failure to post a Board-
required notice is not an unfair labor practice, but
the authorities cited do not support that
proposition.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022303
