arts and still make a full-time income on only four hours a week. The best part of this is that I have
found mentally the meaning of freedom. Reality is truly negotiable and now my reality is that I can
spend endless hours enjoying the company of my father, who waited twenty years till he retired to enjoy
the freedom that I have found less than 24 months after reading The 4-Hour Workweek.

As an immigrant I want to spread the message that to succeed in America in the 21st century we must
NOT work hard, instead we must follow the principles of the 4HWW and work smarter so that we can
truly achieve the New American Dream: Freedom to enjoy the most precious resource we have in life ...
our time on this earth.

—I. BARRON

PHOTO FINISH

Hey Tim,

I wanted to tell you that your book, The 4-Hour Workweek, has been a true inspiration and life-
changing resource for me this year!

I bought your book in November. Before then, I didn’t know what “workflow automation” was. I had
a part-time employee, but her work was actually creating more work for me. I would work until
sometimes 3 A.M., and get up at 7. I'd tell you I wanted to travel, but the truth is that it seemed
impossible to me. I didn’t have time or money.

I was listening to your audio book one day. I had been listening to each of the chapters, sometimes
over and over again. I was jogging. I stopped in my tracks. I believe I was listening about a case study
about someone who sold music files over the Internet.

I’m a photographer. Weddings mostly. I wondered how I could sell digital images over the Internet.
Then I came up with a fantastic idea for a family photography company. I stopped right there, and
reserved a website on my iPhone.

Two months later, I had a website, access to thousands of photographers across the country, and our
first sale. Even better, I am now in the family photography business, and I never have to shoot myself.
Even better +1, we are the first family photography business that doesn’t sell prints. Only digital files. It
worked! I have now adopted this for my wedding photography as well. Other photographers are so
offended, but I am making WAY more $, my costs are almost eliminated, and my time is free!

I know the above is vague, but it’s not the point. The point is that now I work better, faster, I have two
more employees, I turned off my e-mail notifications on my computer and my iPhone, despite all of what
it’s capable of, it doesn’t even ring. E-mail has been disabled. I just check it every so often to see what
calls I missed.

Today, my fiance loves me because I come home in time for dinner and I leave my laptop at work. It’s
a life I never thought Id be able to live. In the meantime, systems are working in my place and this year
looks to be a lot better, financially, than last.

Then I decided it was time to try my first mini-retirement. The goal: ski the Swiss Alps and spend five
days in Switzerland and spend less than $1,000 total. I got a roundtrip ticket for about 500 bucks. My ski
pass for one day at Engelberg was $80. Lodging was free, thanks to your suggestion
www.couchsurfing.com, and I ate roasted chestnuts, brats, fish and chips and drank great beer all week
long. I did it!

I am forever grateful, and am excited for more mini-retirements. Here’s to living during the best years
of my life.

P.S. I leave May 11 for a month-long work vacation to Italy (I have been hired to photograph two
weddings in Siena). I plan on vacationing a LOT more than I will be working.

— MARK CAFIERO, Photographer

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014020
