EEurope. -5.0 1.0
Italy. 5.1 -0.1
Japan. -6.0 1.7
Germany. -6.2 -0.6
Russia. -6.5 1.5
Mexico. -7.3 3.0

If these projections come true, it means the United States, despite its overspent consumers, wrecked banks, and insolvent auto
makers, will be leading the world economy out of recession. Somehow. The developing world will help, but those high growth
projections in China and India can be decetving.

China in particular has government policies that practically mandate high growth, and 8.5 percent in 2010 would be just about the
bare minimum to keep employment at tolerable levels. And neither China nor India is a major buyer of American-made goods and
services; for the most part, it's the other way around. With much of the developed world trailing the United States, it will take
American consumers to ratchet up demand for the world's products. Scary thought.

How to tell when a real recovery begins.?
4 Ways to Tell When a Real Recovery Has Begun

You could conclude just about anything from the daily cavalcade of economic statistics. Some suggest an imminent recovery. Others
seem to foretell years of gloom. The bent of the expert interpreting the latest news—bull, bear, Obama-basher, Wall Street-hater—
has as much to do with the outlook as the numbers themselves.

For the foreseeable future, there will be an aggressive hunt for two economic recoveries. One is the technical improvement in
economic indicators that signals the economy is growing again. That's the one economists care about, which is why they scour the
numbers on retail sales, business inventories, purchasing manager sentiment, subatomic inflation, the mood in Shanghai, and
anything else that could help pinpoint the exact inflection point for a turnaround.

The other recovery, the one that most consumers are waiting for, is the one in which companies stop firing and start hiring, banks
return to normal lending, and families stop worrying about jobs and income. And that turnaround—the consumer recovery—is likely
to take much longer to materialize than the technical recovery.

The danger of hyping a technical recovery is that it will arrive, with much fanfare—but fail to make ordinary consumers feel better
off. Many economists, for example, are predicting that the recession will officially end by this summer or fall. The only problem is
that when a technical recovery begins, a lot of companies fail to get the memo. They don't play along; they keep payrolls lean and
maybe even continuing to lay off workers. So to guard against false optimism, here's how to tell when a real recovery is finally
kicking into gear:

Unemployment improves. The single best indicator of the health of the economy is the job market. People who have lost their job, or
worry that they might, obviously hoard their money and don't spend. That spells doom for an economy driven by consumer spending,
as ours is. But once it's clear that jobs are coming back, consumers are more likely to relax and open their wallets.

Projections about unemployment should make anybody queasy about the prospects for a recovery this year. The unemployment rate
is currently 9.4 percent, a steep rise from one year ago, when it was an unremarkable 5.5 percent. And by most accounts, it's going to
get worse. The International Monetary Fund expects the U.S. unemployment rate to be 10.1 percent in 2010. Economist Gary
Shilling thinks unemployment will hit 11.4 percent and not peak until late next year.

It's hard to imagine a recovery in which jobs are even more scarce than they are now. When the unemployment rate finally starts to
go in the other direction, we can start to think about putting the umbrellas away. Until then, no number of upticks or volume of
optimistic talk will persuade Americans worried about their jobs that they should part with precious cash.

Housing prices stabilize. This has become a mantra by now: For the economy to get healthy, housing prices must stop falling.
Problem is, the houses haven't been listening.

Housing matters for two reasons: It represents a big chunk of the economy, and it's the largest single repository of Americans'

household wealth. With prices falling, buyers are scarce, since nobody wants to buy an expensive good today if it's going to be worth
less tomorrow. With few buyers, all the other economic activity that swirls around real estate—remodeling, appliance and furniture

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021232
