The piece alluded to Epstein’s great friendship with Maxwell, and how she introduced him to young women
with whom he had sexual relationships. But, in the end, the story didn’t really go there, focusing instead on the
issue that remains a mystery—how Jeffrey made his money, and how Ghislaine made hers.

This is not to say I didn’t hear stories about the girls. I did. But, not knowing quite who to believe, I
concentrated on the intriguing financial mystery instead. But now the women have come back. Not the same
ones, different ones. And their stories are bone-chilling. Journalists from England have phoned—and, in one
case, flown—to ask me about Epstein and Maxwell. Who is he? And the British, especially, want to know: Who
is she? At this point, I am so bored of repeating myself to others—it was, after all, my 2003 Vanity Fairstory
that really brought him into the limelight—that I have decided to write about this myself.

Bizarrely, perhaps, I have gotten to know Jeffrey and Ghislaine far better after my piece than before it. I kept
running into both of them, separately, at parties. Jeffrey is not a social animal so he usually has a couple of
young women with him who stand two feet behind him, as if serving a monarch. “Do they speak?” I remember
asking him once, nodding at his lookalike blondes. He laughed. “Not like you, Vicky,” was his riposte.

I remembered that when we’d once discussed math—in particular, an isosceles triangle—and I revealed I hadn’t
studied math since I was 14 (such is, or was, the way of the British educational system), I received a package at
home via messenger. It was a book: “Math for idiots.”

So he is not without humor, even though he doesn’t drink or smoke, and hates restaurants.

“Jeffrey knows a good deal about most subjects,” newspaper publisher Mort Zuckerman told me last week. He
was certainly preaching to the converted. The truth is, Epstein does know a lot about a lot of things. Just a few
moments in his company and you know this to be true.

When I saw pictures of Prince Andrew walking in Central Park with Jeffrey, my immediate thought was that
“Andy’—as Jeffrey calls him—is probably asking for help with his role as British trade envoy, or whatever his
strange title is. Because if one thing’s for sure: When it comes to international business, Jeffrey knows what
he’s talking about far more than “Andy” does. Which is why Leon Black, Mort Zuckerman and a few other
financiers hang out with him.

And Ghislaine?
Full disclosure: I like her. Most people in New York do. It’s almost impossible not to.

She is always the most interesting, the most vivacious, the most unusual person in any room. I’ve spent hours
talking to her about the third world at a bar until 2am. She is as passionate as she is knowledgeable. She is
curious. She has spent weeks at the bottom of the ocean, literally going deeper than anyone else. She has sent
me a DVD of the fish there. Her rolodex would blow away almost anyone else’s I can think of—probably even
Rupert Murdochs’. She is very well-read and can talk about most things for hours. She is passionate about Bill
Clinton with whom she is close friends.

Yet, touchingly, when she had to give a speech at the 4oth birthday party of her best friend, Ariadne Calvo-
Platero, (known fondly to her close friends as “the Tennis Goddess”) Ghislaine shook a little with nerves. When
it comes down to things she really cares about—and Ariadne is one of them—Ghislaine shows her vulnerability.
And that vulnerability is key to understanding her friendship with Jeffrey.

“He saved her,” I remember a close friend of mine telling me. “When her father died, she was a wreck;
inconsolable. And then Jeffrey took her in. She’s never forgotten that—and never will.”

In many ways, the socially awkward Epstein with his big house, plane, island and ranch was the perfect
replacement for her father, the late Robert Maxwell, newspaper tycoon and criminal. Sure, Jeffrey had his
sexual pecadillos, but then Ghislaine’s father was not without his oddities. After all, it was he who died leaving
a massive “black hole” he’d fraudulently created. To Ghislaine, Jeffrey's habits may not have seemed that
strange.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030465
