will.i.am

will.i.am, a multi-faceted entertainer and creative innovator,
is a seven-time Grammy Award winner. Known for his

work with The Black Eyed Peas, who have sold 31 million
albums and 58 million singles worldwide, he also works

with some of the industry’s biggest names including
Michael Jackson, Rihanna, Usher, Nicki Minaj, Britney
Spears, David Guetta, and film composer Hans Zimmer.

Frontman and founder of The Black Eyed Peas
will.i.am has released two songs from his upcoming solo
cd, #willpower on Interscope Records. The first two singles
from the cd released in 2012 are: “T.H.E (The Hardest Ever),”
featuring Mick Jagger and Jennifer Lopez, and number one
hit song in the UK, “This is Love” featuring Eva Simons.

His songs and imagery have entertained and inspired
millions, and the power of his words resonated deeply in his
song “Yes We Can” that mobilized an entire generation to
action during the 2008 presidential campaign. Demonstrating
that music, brands and causes can be intertwined to entertain
and inform, “Yes We Can” garnered an Emmy Award for
“Best New Approaches in Daytime Entertainment.”

In 2011, will.i.am executive produced and starred in
his first prime time TV special “i.am FIRST: Science is Rock
and Roll” to get young people excited about math and science
education, as well as technology and science-related careers.
Earlier this year he starred as a Coach on the hit reality TV
show, “The Voice” UK edition on BBC One. While in London,
will.i.am was a featured performer in “Concert for The Queen”
in celebration of Queen Elizabeth II’s Diamond Jubilee.

As a musician, producer, director and advocate
for education, he is an enthusiastic user of technologies in
both his professional and personal lives. In recognition of
his ability to harness technology to enhance entertainment,
creativity and communication, Intel Corporation appointed
will as Director of Creative Innovation in 2011.

In collaboration with The Coca-Cola Company,
will.i.am is on a mission to elevate the importance of recycling
and to turn waste into a valued commodity through his
EKOCYCLE brand. Launched in July, 2012, EKOCYCLE
will give consumers more stylish options when shopping
for fashion apparel, accessories and sporting goods that
incorporate recycled plastic bottles and aluminum cans.

With a commitment to inspire kids to stay in
school and go to college to become the leaders of tomorrow,
will.i.am advocates regarding the importance and power of
a good education through his i.am angel foundation’s i.am
scholarship. The i.am scholarship provides future leaders
and innovators with comprehensive financial assistance to
complete post-secondary education. The i.am angel foundation
is also active in the U.K. through a STEM education and
computer skills joint initiative with The Prince’s Trust.

Recognized and honored by numerous industry
organizations, will.i.am is the recipient of multiple Grammy
Awards, a Latin Grammy Award, an Emmy Award, two
NAACP Image Awards, a VH1 Do Something Award, the
BMI President’s Award and a 2008 Webby Award.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017561
