ouldan army of monkeys write Hamlet by bashing away randomly

on typewriters? Of course, we don't mean this literally. We are

asking whether knowledge can be created without understanding.
Can a monkey, or perhaps some form of computerized random number
generator, accidentally type out the script for Shakespeare's Hamlet
or write Tolstoy’s War and Peace? Is knowledge generation simply a
numbers game?

Leo Tolstoy’s War and Peace is generally assumed to be the longest
novel ever written. This is not quite true. Wikipedia reckons the longest
novel is a French book, Artamene, with over 2.1 million words. Tolstoy
comes in sixteenth, with a mere half million!

Written in 1869, War and Peace tells the story of five Russian families
during the Napoleonic wars. Originally written in a mixture of Russian
and French, and numbering over 500,000 words, it was quickly translated
to other languages. The mistress of composer Franz Liszt translated it
fully into French, where it expands to 550,000 words. Contrary to popular
myth the length of the book drops slightly in German. If you really want
to save paper Chinese is best. Because
it uses a single symbol per word, the
Chinese translation needs only 750,000
characters compared with the 3 million
for English. It is wrong to assume this
is necessarily more efficient than a
phonetic language. Although it might
save on paper, it is considerably more
laborious to write. Three strokes are
required to write ‘war in English
whereas the Chinese pictogram
requires ten.

Computers work with numbers. It is a simple process to translate
a book into numbers because books are composed of discrete symbols.
All we need do is give each symbol a unique number and record those
numbers in digital format. Artistic works involving pictures and sound
are more difficult to represent because they are continuous in nature. We
have to digitize them first. With music or painting this inevitably means
some loss of information as we can’t cut a sound or image into an infinite
number of pieces.

The modern standard for translating text to numbers is Unicode.
Each character is represented by a five-digit number ranging from 1
to 64,000 — two bytes for those of you who know computing. This is

War in Chinese

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015819
