Edwards, Bradley vs. Dershowitz

Case No.: CACE 15-000072

Edwards and Cassells Response to Dershowitz's Motion to Determine Confidentiality of Court Records
Page 16 of 20

Most remarkably, Dershowitz took the public airwaves to represent that he wanted all of
the information surrounding the allegations to “be made public,” while implying that Edwards
and Cassell had something to hide. For example, on the BBChe claimed that he

wanted“everything to be made public”:

Q: Would you encourage that it now be made public?

A: Of course, of course. / want everything to be made public. I want
every bit of evidence in this case to be made public. I want every
allegation to be made public. | want to know who else she’s accused of
these horrible crimes. We know that she accused Bill Clinton of being on
Jeffrey Epstein’s island and participating in sex orgy with underage
girls. The records of the Secret Service will prove that President Clinton
never set foot on that island. So that she lied. Now it’s possible to have a
case of mistaken identification with somebody like me. It’s impossible to
have a case of mistaken identification with Bill Clinton.
My only feeling is that if she has lied about me, which I know to an
absolute certainty she has, she should not be believed about anyone
else. She’s lied clearly about me, she’s lied clearly about Bill
Clinton. We know that. We know that she’s lied about other public
figures, including a former prime minister and others who she claims to
have participated in sexual activities with. So I think it must be presumed
that all of her allegations against Prince Andrew are false as well.

I think he [Prince Andrew] should clear the air as well.
If you’re squeaky clean and if you have never done anything like this, you
must fight back with all the resources available to you. And that’s what I
will do. I will not rest or stop until the world understands no only that I
had nothing to do with any of this, but that she deliberately, with the
connivance of her lawyer, lawyers, made up this story willfully and
knowingly.

BBC Radio 4 - Sarah Montague (Jan. 3, 2015) (http://www.bbe.co.uk/programmes/p02¢7qbc).
In another widely-broadcast interview on CNN, Dershowitz implied that there is no

evidence supporting the allegations against him:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010772
