you are in a first-world country and can buy local insurance to augment your own, which I do, and it is
useless if you are a 10-hour flight from civilization. I had evacuation insurance in Panama, as it’s a 2-
hour flight from Miami, but I didn’t bother elsewhere. Don’t freak out about this; it’s just as true if
you’re in the middle of nowhere in the middle of the US.

= One week out—

Decide on a schedule for routine batched tasks such as e-mail, online banking, etc. to eliminate excuses
for senseless pseudo-work procrasterbating. I suggest Monday mornings for checking e-mail and online
banking. The first and third Mondays of the month can be used for checking credit cards and making
other online payments such as affiliates. These promises to yourself will be the hardest to keep, so make
a commitment now and expect serious withdrawal cravings.

Save important documents— including the scan of your identification, insurance, and credit/debit cards
—to a small handheld storage device that plugs into a computer USB port.

Move all things out of your home or apartment into storage, pack a single small backpack and carry-
on bag for the adventure, and move in briefly with a family member or friend.

» Two days out—

Put remaining automobiles into storage or a friend’s garage. Put fuel stabilizer like Sta-Bil® in the gas
tanks, disconnect the negative leads from batteries to prevent drain, and put the vehicles on jack stands to
prevent tire and shock damage. Cancel all auto insurance except for theft coverage.

» Upon arrival (assuming you have not booked an apartment in advance) —

First morning and afternoon after check-in Take a hop-on-hop-off bus tour of the city followed by a
bike tour of potential apartment neighborhoods.

First late afternoon or evening Purchase an unlocked®2cell phone with a SIM card that can be
recharged with simple prepaid cards. E-mail apartment owners or brokers on Craigslist.com and online
versions of local newspapers for viewings over the next two days.

Second and third days Find and book an apartment for one month. Don’t commit to more than one
month until you’ve slept there. I once prepaid two months only to find that the busiest bus stop
downtown was on the other side of my bedroom wall.

Move-in day Get settled and purchase local health insurance. Ask hostel owners and other locals what
insurance they use. Resolve not to buy souvenirs or other take-home items until two weeks prior to
departure.

One week later Eliminate all the extra crap you brought but won’t use often. Either give it to someone
who needs it more, mail it back to the U.S., or throw it out.

» TOOLS AND TRICKS

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013969
