Palm House Robert Matthews EB-5 Clintons Trump Tony Bennett https://therealdeal.com/miami/issues_articles/lost-paradise-at-th...

6 of 10

~ SOUTH FLORIDA REAL ESTATE NEWS
Q SUBSCRIBE MY ACCOUNT

“really just needs a business plan and numbers to support the government's jobs

projections and give the appearance that it is able to execute on that plan.”

But a handful of legal experts argued that there’s minimal oversight by USCIS during

the course of most projects being built.

The agency is “inept at controlling the fraud,” said Michael Gibson, managing director
at the EB-5 advisory firm USAdvisors.org. “No one knows who the true owners of the
regional centers [are,] and there is no information on any of this. How can you deter

fraud when there is no way for anyone to do any due diligence?”

A spokesperson for USCIS said the agency has a team of auditors that conduct
compliance reviews on regional centers and noted in an email to The Real Deal that it
“does not release information on specific EB-5 applications, investors or related

projects due to [the Privacy Act] and other restrictions.”

“USCIS takes any violation of the law seriously, and we will explore all actions
available to us to ensure the integrity of our immigration system,’ the spokesperson
added. “Where instances of fraud are suspected or proven within the program, USCIS
takes appropriate measures to deal with any actors involved in the fraud, including

terminating regional center designation.”

Regional centers have come under scrutiny for their roles in these EB-5 frauds in

recent years.

USCIS shutdown Vermont’s sole EB-5 regional center last year on the heels of the
country’s largest EB-5 fraud to date in the state’s so-called Northeast Kingdom.

Elsewhere, in Jupiter, Florida, Nicholas Mastroianni — who's helped raise EB-5 funds
for the Kushner family’s real estate projects — was sued last October over his
Harbourside Place development by nearly 80 Chinese investors who accused him of

defrauding them. Mastroianni has denied these charges.

One of the underlying problems is that regional center

6/26/19, 11:57 AM

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029525
