helped him rebut Jennifer Flowers’ irrefutable evidence of infidelity in 1992. Biden,
it is widely believed, would have trounced the Republicans in 2016. He isa

thoroughly honest and decent man with a lifelong love for his wife and children.

Let us conclude with a minor example—the arrest of Harvard Professor Louis Gates
outside his home, six months into Obama’s presidency. He did not have to comment
on this trivial event but chose to. Corporatist that he is and biased toward the upper
strata, he took Gates’ side. When there was a hue and cry he arranged a little beer
party on the White House lawn—Obama with his long legs underneath the table,
Vice President Biden opposite him, a cop wondering how in hell he got roped into
this absurd situation and “Skip” Gates happy as a clam in the ocean, all aglow as he

held forth on God Knows what.

If there was in fact a teachable moment, it was this. ALL Americans should know
that no police officer has the right to enter your home without a search warrant or
an arrest warrant. This goes way back to English common law—the King must
knock at a peasant’s door—your home is your castle. The police officer had invited
Gates outside. Gates fell for the trick and was promptly arrested. He was the fool, not
the cop. And black Americans especially should know the law where police officers

are concerned.

Obama draws a line in the sand against Syrian bombings, they cross the line, Obama
does nothing. Obama offends Michelle and she promptly puts him through three

degrees of hell as he well deserved. And so on.

Finally, | have been dismayed by all the photos I have seen of him since he left office—
a big grin while swimming in the ocean, taking a picture of Michelle—at a safe
distance—on a super yacht and grinning ear to ear while talking to Prince Harry. He
is so happy to be freed from the burdens of the Presidency while enjoying all the
perks. May God forgive him. But he did have it all. | used to joke in the 2008

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029450
