72 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

would be very hard for a human but easy for a computer. If you got a
very quick answer; the computer would have given itself away. But, the
computer has been programmed not to give itself away, and it is free to
give the answer slowly or even reply that the calculation is too hard. Our
computer can say anything it likes, including lying to pass the test! If the
computer can fool a questioner into believing it is a human then Turing
argued the computer has shown it is at least as intelligent as we are.

It used to be assumed that the field of broad general knowledge
would be hard for a computer, but Watson has shown this is not so. With
enough storage and a reasonable algorithm, winning a pub quiz is well
within the capability of a modern computer.

The really difficult questions for a computer are philosophical ones,
novel questions and things that don’t fall into a pattern. For example,

“Are you happy?”

“What do you think of Shakespeare’s Hamlet?”

“Ts there life after death?”

“How went it?”

“Think Differ...”

If a computer could plausibly answer this sort of questioning for an
extended period, say fifteen minutes, should we conclude it is intelligent,
or do we need more time to be certain?

Turing’s approach to certainty was simple. Just ask lots of questions.
As you ask more and more questions, you will become increasingly
certain you are talking to an intelligent being. He characterized it
as a linear process; after 15 minutes of questioning you might be
99% certain and after a few hours 99.9% certain and after a few days
completely certain. The problem with this approach is it does not flush
out discontinuities. What if the questioning suddenly stopped without
warning or explanation? A human responder is likely to worry that the
questioner has had a heart attack and do something to find out what is
going on including leaving the room. Humans can make creative leaps,
solve non-computable puzzles or come up with a clever new joke. A
humans could even announce the test is a waste of time and walk off.
They just exercised free will! A computer cannot do these things.

Each year a group of scientists enters a competition run by
Cambridge University to win the Loebner prize, a competition to see
how close a machine can come to passing the Turing Test. If you can beat
the test you win $100,000. So far no one has come close and scientists are
beginning to realize just how hard it is.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015762
