bottom of the floor as he was saying “You can’t really expect to give a
massage wearing this, here sweetie, I'll help you out of it.” He just
wanted to see the hidden bounty my clothes were hindering his eyes from
seeing. I just went about my way trying to get his hands off of me and to
get him to lie down for a massage. Making quaint conversation with him
was pointless as I was trying to send his thoughts elsewhere other than
the apparent perverted schemes replaying in his mind from the heavy
breathing he was making and the looks he was giving to me. I was using
all of the tricks in the “turn-off” book even asking him about his wife and
kids.

Unquestionably he was in seventh heaven turning every one of my
distractions into another flattering compliment. He was saying things like
“I love what you do you to me, I have never felt like this before, come
stay with me and I will pay you double, no, triple whatever Jeffrey pays
you!” Knowing he was just a drunk idiot, | wasn’t being lured in by any
of his offers of money or a privileged lifestyle, I knew these cages all too
well and I was better off sticking with the one that I was at least
accustomed to already. Holding back any composure now, he was going
extremely wild ravishing at my body trying to tear off my panties like a
hungered wild animal. After all of the champagne I had drunk that night
it gave me the nerve that I needed to know exactly how to handle perverts
like this one, who had been no different from every other shmuck in my
life, and I quickly shut him up with a blowjob lasting no longer than two
terrible minutes. It had only been shy of a half an hour before ] was
already getting quickly get dressed and hurrying out his cottage door.

When I got to Jeffrey’s cottage I rushed through the door and told
Jeffrey and Ghislane, who were sitting front of the fireplace reading a
books, that 1 never ever wanted to see that guy ever again. When they
asked me what was the matter, | told them of every thing that had
happened that night even how he offered me to come work for him
getting paid triple. I established a lot of trust with Jeffrey that night. He
asked me why I didn’t accept the offer and I responded with “ Who
would look after you, if I were gone?” Like a caring grand father would
do, he pulled me into his chest for a hug and told me that it meant a lot to
him. It was so late and I was so tired but I still had to give Jeffrey his
massage that night. He asked me to just rub his feet as he fell asleep, and
thankfully he was out like a light in no time. The next morning I took two
headache tablets and a ginger ale instead of a coffee. Trying to contain
my hangover as best as possible behind a pair of sunnies it was mid
afternoon by the time I had felt like myself again. We spent the day Yacht
hopping, soaking in the sunny weather while Jeffrey and Ghislane caught
up with old acquaintances, Emmy and I were just accessories to look
good on the arms of them. The next day we wrapped up the tail end of

67

U1 Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL, GIUFFREO04200

our trip and commenced our flight back into the U.S. 1 was paid a
generous amount and set off to go car shopping as soon as | got back to
Florida. Through a private seller, I was able to pay out right for my car. I
got a Dodge Dakota in cherry red, and immediately had an impressive
sound system put in. She was my first pride and joy and taste of freedom.
I would love to drive her down to Lakeworth Beach to sit in my car and
watch the waves while J listened to my stereo blare music and puffed on a
jay. Letting the rest of the world pass by while I sat back and watched
them walk past wondering to myself what their story was about.

I turned seventeen that summer and had accumulated a string of exotic
destinations that I had travelled in such a short time. I was given more
make-up and a pair of diamond earrings from Jeffrey. Ghislane only
wished me a happy day, wondering at times if she felt threatened by
Jeffrey’s and my closeness. We went to the island after we left N.Y.C and
Lasked If Sarah would be meeting us, mentioning it had been a while
since we had last seen her. He said he had some bad news about her.
Expecting the worse, thinking she had gotten hurt or something, I was
astounded when Jeffrey told me that she had been sent to his island with
one of his friends for a couple days and when the housekeepers were
cleaning her room and they found a stash of cocaine left out carelessly in
the bathroom.

He said he had no choice but to let her go. Addicts with no respect for
themselves or his wishes had no leeway in Jeffrey’s book. He didn’t mind
that I dabbled in drugs once in a while as long as | never brought them
along with us on any trips, except for my Xanax, which he didn’t mind
because it was pharmaceutical and most of all wouldn’t cause him trouble
being a legal narcotic. Sarah took it too far when she crossed international
borders with an illegal drug, risking her welfare and almost costing
Jeffrey public attention. She lost her apartment and contacts in the acting
world, only hearing from acquaintances once in a while that she was
sinking deeper and deeper into the black hole of addiction. It was sad to
find out, as I always did like her.

At the island, Ghislane had just recently obtained her helicopter pilot’s
license and wanted to get some practice airtime and flew Jeffrey and I to
St. John where we picked up Alexandria Cousteau, the grand daughter to
the inventor of the scuba tank and underwater explorer Jack Cousteau.
Ghislane was out to set us affright in the air, but it was all talk, she was
actually an impressive pilot. Still a daredevil though, she got her kicks
out of hearing us fret on the earmuffs intercom’s. Jeffrey made it clear
that Alexandria was a guest when I was told to adhere to her if she
wanted a massage, which I obliged her with several times during our first
meeting. It was Jeffrey who instigated that her and I reenact as lovers in
lesbian acts of foreplay and penetration. I couldn’t imagine a girl with

68

C) Copyright Protected Material

GIUFFRED0420L

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021178
