13.6. Product Offering

Comprehensive K-9 Curriculum. k12 offers a comprehensive curriculum for grades K-9 directly to the
studenis in its virtual academies, directly to consumers and to school districts, summer schools and after-
school programs. 12 is creating rich and challenging proprietary educational material based on existing
best-of-breed content and traditional methods enhanced by technology. Unlike most computer-based
education programs, which rely solely on computers and burden students with mechanical “point and
click” exercises, k12 uses the computer as only one among many complementary tools to open children’s
minds to the best books and educational material. 412's math, reading and writing curriculum involve a
significant amount of off-line work in the form of books, audiotapes, science equipment, art supplies and
more. 12 provides some of these materials and others will be recommended but not required.

For example, k12’s comprehensive curriculum for students in grades K-9 includes lessons in the following
subjects:

@ Language Arts. Progresses from a focus in the primary grades on early mastery of reading using
phonics-based curriculum reviewed and revised by a team of renowned experts, to, in later grades, a
rich program of literature, composition, and language skills;

& Math. A solid early foundation in basic math based on a highly respected math curriculum and
rigorous math standards;

B History. in grades K-4, a proprietary k12 program that offers a chronological overview of history, from
the Stone Age to the Space Age, with integrated geography and civics; in middle school, an American

History survey based on the celebrated History of the US series, and a World History survey based on
a proprietary A12 textbook;

Ei Science. A world-class science curriculum focused on hand-on activities and basic principles driven
by some of the most ambitious state science standards in the country;

M Visual Aris. A curriculum that combines appreciation of historical trends and masterpieces with
specific skill building and many opportunities for creative work; and

HB Music. In the elementary grades, a proprietary program that engages young children in singing,
dancing and creative movement while introducing them to great works of music from around the world.

k12’s curriculum and assessment are delivered, in part, through a series of proprietary course modules.
k12 delivers material over the internet, but also through other forms of media, including traditional books,
video and learning kits. «12’s course modules employ interactive text, audio, videos, CDs, and animated
graphics. The Internet-based portion of k12’s courses contains the following features:

@ Integration of a diverse mix of materials—visual images and concepts, audio, videos and animated
sequences, as well as high-quality written material;

Capabilities for users to see an overview of the whole module at a glance;
Opportunity for parents to scan and preview modules before guiding students through work;
Integrated assessment services;

Ability for children, parents, and teachers fo follow students’ progress;

Comprehensive teaching guides with “drill down” functionality for those parents requiring more detailed
instruction; and

@ Proven, standards-based, technologies that provide a satisfactory experience for the current Internet
infrastructure.

111

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024544
