Business Expansion Portfolio and Prospectus
Twin City Care of The Virgin Islands
3

Commission on Accreditation of Ambulance Services (CAAS)

Any ambulance service can claim it is delivering quality service, but an accredited agency can
prove it through its written or documented procedures systems and reports. TCMIH demonstrates
full compliance with national ambulance standards of excellence to meet and maintain CAAS.
TCMIH will also maintain Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), Blood
Borne Pathogen (BBP), Vehicle Safety (EMD & CEVO), Virgin Islands Traffic Laws and VI Code
Tax Laws.

CAAS was established in 1990 as a not-for-profit national agency to uphold quality operating
standards for ambulance services. It is the gold standard for the ambulance industry, in as much as
JCAHO (Joint Commission of Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations) is the benchmark for
hospital excellence.

The accreditation process entails a serious self-assessment, comparing us to the accreditation
standards. We work through a comprehensive application process with guidance, consultation and
mentorship from our CEO; Mr. Jeffery Gilliard former Director of Coastal Ambulance, Brevard
County Florida.

Within two years TCIMH hopes to achieve and maintain recertification requirements for CAAS
Accreditation and joins the 160 agencies in 37 U.S. State, Canada and the West Indies. This is our
steadfast commitment and dedication to quality healthcare for our community, each patient, each
transport, and each day.

Performance Requirements
As the premier non-emergency, interfacility, advanced and basic life support ambulance service
in the Virgin Islands. TCMIH will provide detailed performance parameters including on time

performance as outlined below.

Advanced and Basic Life Support

Definitions:
Pre-Schedule Requests Those requests scheduled 24 hours in advance.
Urgent Requests Same day requests that are time sensitive in nature, such as transports
to emergency room.
Non-Urgent Requests Same day requests that are not time sensitive in nature such as hospital
discharges.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029478
