for by Jeffrey, he pointed out needed changes all over the place, driving
the builders mad, as always. He wanted the place to scream out
“GHISLANE” with a bold statement. Checkered floors and bold colors
was the theme, like the queen of hearts from Alice in Wonderland, very
well suited I thought.

The dust from the walls being torn down chocked my throat and the
elevator was not in use, the stairs were hardly either. The whole house
was in bad shape then having to go up three flights of rickety steps was a
bit of a risk too but worth it once you made it to her future walk in
wardrobe or to us commoners, a closet the size of a small a house.
Complete with a dressing room, luxurious bathroom and plenty of storage
for her every ensemble. Even without it being finished it was already a
work of art, a sanctuary for any woman. She adorned herself in her future
home, finally her own, relishing every inch of it, she already put in a
work desk and spoke constantly of its ongoing renovations. About an
hour later we were off to pick out curtains and look at some paint samples
at a couple different boutique looking shops. Easily passing off as an
ordinary couple for the day, they walked arm in arm strolling the streets
of the Upper East Side. Except to me, still replaying the early afternoon’s
events, shaking my head over the echoed images in my mind, I followed
behind just waiting to be needed again.

Over the course of the next few months was a constant influx of
exorbitant excursions at Jeffrey’s mansions, mainly to his island, to keep
up with his ever-demanding sexual appetite with various young women
and teenage girls. I got back on the Xanax, an old habit that I felt at the
time would stop my memories from flowing back, rehabilitate my
problems and relax me enough to deal with any situation at hand, no
matter what the circumstance revealed itself to be. It was a drug that
would blind my eyes to everything I should’ve been running from.

Having Brunel always in the picture these days wasn’t helping me at all
either. Sending his girls for Jeffrey at all of his places now and at a
vigorous flow, they had an abundance of girls at their disposal. If I were
to count one girl for everyday of the week, it would be the
underestimated statement of the century. So many girls between the two
of them, some nights it would be a free for all frenzy for Jeffrey and
Brunel, seven or so girls giving them their upmost attention, doting on
their every moan and whimper, Jeffrey being the main concern since
Brunel worked for him and we were all aware of that too. If there were
heaven on earth for men like Jeffrey, than he would be their God. Every
one of his inner most desires was fulfilled when his harem of women was
around. No wonder he didn’t travel much abroad these days, all he ever
wanted was right at his doorstep. I couldn’t believe that he was still
asking me to bring girls to him as well. There was never enough girls to

95

11 Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004228

fill his appetite, so on occasion I would meet a pretty girl around my age
and invite her back to his place to make some quick money by offering
her a really good contact in the modeling and acting business. Keeping
him satisfied and in need of me was a tiring job. With so much
competition I had to be on the ball, seeming ambitious to grant him all of
his desires. It was a lot of pressure and a spotlight of a role to undertake
at such a young age but I told myself this is what my life’s training had
led me up to be.

My Birthday was around the comer and turning eighteen had lost all of
its sparkle and pizzazz. There were no more surprises in store for me,
nothing that would bedazzle me I hadn’t done already. I spent my
birthday on the island, having a quiet dinner and watching “Sex and the
City” on the couch with Jeffrey, Ghislane and Emmy. There was no cake
or a celebration of any sort but I did get a couple of presents that I opened
outside underneath the main cabana. Jeffrey gave me a beautiful pair of
sapphire and diamond encrusted earrings and Ghislane bought me another
designer makeup case. I thanked the two of them with a tight squeeze and
a gratuitous short spiel. As it went quiet, I looked out to the ocean and
wondered if across these waters was there ever going to be happier days
spent with someone special to me. Would he be kind, compassionate, and
always be there when I needed him most? Or would | end up settling for
my final bit of training, a marriage to a greedy old scrooge? Either way
what I wanted most didn’t matter right now, I was still bound by Jeffrey’s
hold over me and all I had to keep telling myself to get through this epic
journey was, this is just the way it was for now.

Around the table for breakfast Jeffrey announced that he was expecting
a few guests coming over with Brunel, no one of importance, just his
usual entourage of beautiful girls. Russian models this time and Jeffrey
was also having a photographer flown in to take modeling photos using
the island as the perfect background for a sexy shoot. All of us girls were
ushered onto rocks, hammocks, dug into sand and displayed just about
anywhere they wanted. We were being photographed in next to nothing,
like a netted fabric placed over us if the shot called for it, but the more
provocative the more Jeffrey and Brunel loved it.

After the photo shoot we did some outdoor watersports. While us girls
raced the jet skis around and jumped on the water trampoline, the men
stayed on dry land to watch us from the beach. I was so used to this
constant charade of girls and I didn’t mind having a bit of fun but this
was different, I had to be more than just polite because | already knew it
wouldn’t be long before we were all intimate with each other as well.
Being the only girl that spoke English out of all of them was also a huge
blunder. The only way we could communicate was through hand gestures

96

D Copyright Protected Material

GIULFREO03229

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021192
