Starting my day with a few of the supplied oxytocin’s and a bloody
mary, made by the live-in house chef. Having two celery sticks for my
breakfast, I wanted to lye out by the pool and forget the world. Ron hated
tan-lines so to be caught with a bikini top on was a big no-no in his rule
book but after my cries to stop were so blatantly ignored last night, I was
out to piss him off so I didn’t remove my shirt. I put on my headphones
and before I knew it had fallen into a deep slumber from my self-made
therapeutic cocktail, the only way I knew how to cope with the emotional
turmoil on the inside.

Desperate to hear his voice I called my friend T.J a few more times that
week. I needed to feel like someone out there really knew me. Sometimes
we could just chat like old friends with no care in the world and laugh at
a distant memory from too long ago. Then would come the good-bye part
of the conversation and we would both get teary-eyed not knowing what
could happen next or if this would even be the last time we ever spoke to
each other again.

My biggest fear came to reality when f was in our bedroom one
afternoon, just lounging around out of boredom. Ron came bursting in
through the door, red as a tomato. I couldn’t help but feeling I was in big
trouble. His face was distorted and raging towards me. I knew right away
he must have found out that | was calling T_J, but how, | had no idea. 1
had always tried to be as invisible as possible, soon enough it was all
explained.

“Are you trying to get me caught? You are nothing but a stupid girl
you know that! What am I supposed to do with you now?” He was
tearing up the room while his rants gave me something else to think
about. What would he do with me if he had no use for me any longer? |
wasn’t even thinking about him being caught for soliciting illegal
immigrants for the purpose of prostitution. | was more worried that he
would be upset at the fact I was talking to another guy, maybe even
jealous that he was at least my age. | replied with simple sentences that I
could manage to get out between all the shouting. I kept saying, “I’m
sorry” and putting my head down in shame. He picked me up by my
throat pinning me against the wall, “You are going away, far -far away
from me and you better be nicer to the next man I send you to, I’ve heard
he’s not a nice as most would like. Are you fucking hearing me Bitch?” I
slid down the wall, choking on the first air entering my lungs, breathless
and terrified, | never thought Ron was a nice guy but I had never seen
him lose it this bad. Now | was being sent me away to another stranger,
another man, it only terrified me more.

The girls came in to say their good-byes all of them were crying and
asking me in their best English languages, why | had to call someone and
lose everything? I was able to find out through the broken sobs off of

11

C Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFREO04 144

them that the confession came from the house-keeper who said she saw
me use the room regularly but was never messed up, so Ron looked at the
recent telephone bills and found the same number dialed from that room
consecutively, he knew it was me right away. At least he didn’t know it
was another guy, I thought to myself, or I probably wouldn’t have made it
out of there alive.

Ron came back to usher the girls out of my room and told me I had five
minutes to pack my clothes, which he made clear were to be my only
belongings to take with me. He washed his hands clean of me that night,
or so he thought. The driver came knocking at my door, just as Ron said,
no longer than the five minutes that he had offered me and he took my
single bag to the car. 1 didn’t want all the jewelry, music or books that he
so caringly bought me as tokens of his twisted affection. Only taking my
clothes and a wad of hundred dollar bills I had been saving, | slit a hole in
my scrunchie inserting my cash for a rainy day that I was more than sure
was just around the corner. .

We drove for hours, until I started seeing familiar surroundings. |
couldn’t believe my own eyes. | was back in Miamt, but not on the
beaches, somewhere in the CBD this time. The Driver delivered me to the
front door with my one bag and waited at the door with me. Now I knew
how it felt to be a puppy picked from her litter as you can only hope your
next owner would treat you with some sort of kindness.

Another balding man answered the door but he wasn’t so grotesquely
fat like Ron, but still a new owner at that. He looked me up and down and
seemed amused as he snickered to himself. With one last look to the
driver over my shoulder it was almost an appeal to him for some way to
help me. I knew he couldn’t anyways, I was just hoping. He told me his
name was Charlie but didn’t even bother in asking me for mine. I was
sure Ron already filled in all of my details when he arranged this.

Charlie picked up my bag and led me into his bachelor pad townhouse.
I was never given a welcoming tour of my new residence or made to feel
comfortable. He walked me up the stairs and opened one of the doors in
the small hallway. Telling me this would be my room, he showed me into
it and told me to wait, he would be back shortly. I sat on my bed afraid to
touch anything and after the warning Ron gave me I knew I had to watch
my step around here. I put my head down onto the pillows my where
world was falling apart and let my emotions downpour. Exhausted from
the days emotional turmoil | ended up falling asleep. 1 don’t even know if
he ever came in at all that night.

The next morning I looked out of the window to see my new
surroundings. It was a beautiful sunny day outside, unlike the dreary cell
I was locked away inside of. Feeling the sun warm up my face through
the glass, it radiated a familiar sense of comfort from the days of the good

12

O Copyright Protected Material

GIULFREO04 145

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021150
