ane Group (CG), C-2-8, Neutral
Glenn Youngkin, President and Chief Operating Officer, presented for CG. Overall,
Mr. Youngkin is positive on the economic/market backdrop and on CG’s ability to
generate cash carry relatively consistently over time given the firm’s diversity of
funds.

e When asked “What would get you more interested in investing in CG stock?” most
investors would like to see an increased float and reduced complexity (40%),
followed closely by rising fee related earnings (30%). Investors are also interested
in seeing increased visibility on the distribution (15%) and increased contribution
from RA and GMS segments (15%).

Chart 62: What would get you more interested in investing in CG stock?

45%
40%
35%
30%
29%
20%
15%
10%

5%

0%
Rising fee related — Increased visibilityon Increased contribution Increased float and
earnings the distribution from RA and GMS _ reduced complexity
segments

Source: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research

« — If comprehensive tax reform includes an elimination of carried interest tax,
potentially moving to an ordinary income rate, it could have some impact to after
tax unitholder returns. However, Glenn thinks it is very early to speculate on any
changes and expects tax changes to likely be comprehensive.

« Glenn sees the potential for a strong push in infrastructure, along with tax change,
defense spending, and the border will get a lot of attention along with international
trade. Three main conclusions: 1) First time in a long time that there is a universal
pro-business outlook across congress and the presidential office; 2) Unclear today
what is going to be enacted, there is optimism but uncertainty; and 3) CG is not
going to make meaningful changes one way or another based on speculation. CG
launched its latest infrastructure fund in September, and the election results are
more wind in the sails.

« CGhas multiple funds, each with its own economic engine. That makes the cash
flow profile more stable than other firms. Management believes that a discounted
valuation in the stock is driven more by fear of a recession vs. lower FRE. Glenn
thinks that outlook has changed with the election. The economy may be going into
extra innings now.

e The investment environment hasn’t changed materially in last few weeks -
continues to be tough. Global growth will continue to be muted, and despite the

Bankof America a 2016 Future of Financials Conference | 17 November 2016 43
Merrill Lynch

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014357
