214 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

profits. Because the value of their contracts was largely limited by
competitive bidding, their business plans were predicated on their
ability to minimize the costs of fulfilling these contracts. Their prin-
cipal cost was the salaries they paid their independent contractors.
Their business plans therefore depended on finding large numbers
of computer technicians in the private realm willing to work at an
NSA base at relatively low wages. This task became more difficult as
many potential recruits could find higher-paying employment with
more of a future in the burgeoning private sphere. But the compa-
nies could also increase their revenue streams by getting additional
contracts, which, in turn, meant recruiting even more workers.

Such a business plan could hardly afford to give the highest pri-
ority to the low probability of a security risk. In the private sector,
there is usually an unambiguous external measure of failure. An
automobile company such as General Motors can measure the per-
formance of its executives by reckoning its change in net income.
With secret intelligence work, the metrics for failure are far less
clear. This curious aspect of secret work was part of the advice given

© to a White House lawyer in the Obama administration seeking a ©
position with the NSA in 2012, who was told that among the advan-
tages of working for a super-secret agency was that if one errs or
has a failure, “it stays secret.” The Snowden case showed that not all
failures stay secret.

The NSA can certainly quantify the amount of data it is intercept-
ing, but it obviously cannot count the intelligence that it misses. The
a priori proposition in the intelligence game is that “what is success-
fully hidden is never found.” But one failure that cannot be hidden
is a security breach in which a perpetrator uses NSA data to publicly
expose the NSA’s sources.

Until the Snowden breach in 2013, the NSA had experienced only
one such public failure. It was the capture by North Korea in 1968 of
the USS Pueblo, which had been carrying out highly sensitive elec-
tronic communications interception for the NSA. The Pueblo crew
failed to destroy the NSA‘s encoding machines, which were flown
to Russia several days later. It was a horrible, costly breach. The
Snowden breach was much worse because, among the thousands of

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r.indd 214 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019702
