The Keys to the Kingdom Are Missing | 175

rov, had spent almost six months negotiating with Hillary Clinton’s
State Department a one-on-one summit between President Obama
and President Putin. Not only would this summit be a diplomatic
coup for Russia, but also it would add to Putin’s personal credibil-
ity in advance of the Olympic Games in Russia. In mid-June, after
USS. intelligence reported to Obama’s national security adviser that
Snowden was in contact with Russian officials in Hong Kong, the
State Department explicitly told Lavrov that allowing Snowden
to defect to Russia would be viewed by President Obama as a bla-
tantly unfriendly act. As such, it could (and did) lead to the cancella-
tion of the planned summit. Putin knew the downside of admitting
Snowden.

But if Snowden had a large archive of files containing the sources
of the NSA’s electronic interceptions, as Snowden claimed he had in
Hong Kong, there was an enormous potential intelligence upside.
Putin had to choose between the loss of an Obama summit and
an intelligence coup. Would Putin have made the choice he did if
Snowden had destroyed, or refused to share, the stolen data?

© “No country, not even the United States, would grant sanctuary ©
to an intelligence defector who refused to be cooperative,” answered
a former CIA officer who had spent a decade dealing with Russian
intelligence defectors. “That’s not how it works.” If so, it seems plau-
sible to believe that, as Kucherena said, the documents Snowden
brought to Russia explain why Russia exfiltrated him from Hong
Kong and provided him with a safe haven.

The Quickly Changing Narrative

Three weeks after Kucherena’s appearance on Shevardnadze’s show,
on October 17, Snowden had his first interview exchange with a
journalist since his arrival in Russia. It was over the Internet with
James Risen of The New York Times, as noted earlier. Snowden now
asserted a very different narrative. The subsequent front-page story,
which carried the headline “Snowden Says He Took No Secret Files
to Russia,” reported that Snowden claimed he gave all his documents
to journalists in Hong Kong and brought none of them to Russia. He

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 175 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019663
