Flight logs from Epstein’s private jet show Clinton was a frequent flyer, taking
Secret Service agents along with him on trips with Epstein around the globe.
Clinton has publicly ignored Giuffre’s allegations but an independent
investigation launched by Dershowitz raised questions about their veracity.

One of Epstein’s longtime servants testified that Prince Andrew was a regular
guest at Epstein’s house and received massages during the visits. But house
manager Juan Alessi acknowledged in a sworn deposition that older women
and men offered Swedish massages to Epstein’s guest. It is unclear who gave
the British prince the massages or what was included. The prince has
vehemently denied Giuffre’s allegations.

Alessi also testified that Trump visited Epstein’s home when both were in Palm
Beach. “He would come, have dinner. He never sat at the table,” said Alessi,
who described himself as Epstein’s majordomo. “He eat with me in the
kitchen.”

But, Alessi said, unlike other visitors, Trump didn’t avail himself of massages.
“No,” he said. “Because he’s got his own spa.”

While Giuffre’s defamation lawsuit appears headed for what will likely be a
confidential settlement, Scarola said his case against Epstein is going to trial
even though Trump won't be called as a witness.

“We can prove our case without Donald Trump’s testimony,” he said of
malicious prosecution lawsuit he filed against Epstein for suing Edwards, the
attorney who has represented Giuffre and several of Epstein’s other victims.

Edwards has also been leading a separate charge to prove Acosta’s office
violated the federal Crime Victims’ Rights Act when it signed off on the non-
prosecution agreement without notifying the women. That suit, which has
stalled in federal court after many of the documents were sealed, could
eventually reveal why Epstein got what many call a “sweetheart deal,” Scarola
said.

Edwards also represented 65 members of Trump National Golf Club Jupiter,
who won $5.8 million in February when a federal judge ruled that Trump
improperly kept their deposits when he took over the club on Donald Ross
Road in Jupiter in 2012. Trump is appealing the decision.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022993
