Donald Trump and his tiny band of campaign warriors were ready to lose with fire and
fury. They were not ready to win.

OOK Ok

In politics somebody has to lose, but invariably everybody thinks they can win. And you
probably can’t win unless you believe that you will win—except in the Trump campaign.

The leitmotif for Trump about his own campaign was how crappy it was and how
everybody involved in it was a loser. He was equally convinced that the Clinton people
were brilliant winners—“They’ve got the best and we’ve got the worst,” he frequently
said. Time spent with Trump on the campaign plane was often an epic dissing experience:
everybody around him was an idiot.

Corey Lewandowski, who served as Trump’s first more or less official campaign
manager, was often berated by the candidate. For months Trump called him “the worst,”
and in June 2016 he was finally fired. Ever after, Trump proclaimed his campaign doomed
without Lewandowski. “We’re all losers,” he would say. “All our guys are terrible, nobody
knows what they’re doing... . Wish Corey was back.” Trump quickly soured on his
second campaign manager, Paul Manafort, as well.

By August, trailing Clinton by 12 to 17 points and facing a daily firestorm of
eviscerating press, Trump couldn’t conjure even a far-fetched scenario for achieving an
electoral victory. At this dire moment, Trump in some essential sense sold his losing
campaign. The right-wing billionaire Bob Mercer, a Ted Cruz backer, had shifted his
support to Trump with a $5 million infusion. Believing the campaign was cratering,
Mercer and his daughter Rebekah took a helicopter from their Long Island estate out to a
scheduled fundraiser—with other potential donors bailing by the second—at New York
Jets owner and Johnson & Johnson heir Woody Johnson’s summer house in the Hamptons.

Trump had no real relationship with either father or daughter. He’d had only a few
conversations with Bob Mercer, who mostly talked in monosyllables; Rebekah Mercer’s
entire history with Trump consisted of a selfie taken with him at Trump Tower. But when
the Mercers presented their plan to take over the campaign and install their lieutenants,
Steve Bannon and Kellyanne Conway, Trump didn’t resist. He only expressed vast
incomprehension about why anyone would want to do that. “This thing,” he told the
Mercers, “is so fucked up.”

By every meaningful indicator, something greater than even a sense of doom shadowed
what Steve Bannon called “the broke-dick campaign’ —a sense of structural impossibility.

The candidate who billed himself as a billionaire—ten times over—trefused even to
invest his own money in it. Bannon told Jared Kushner—who, when Bannon signed on to
the campaign, had been off with his wife on a holiday in Croatia with Trump enemy David
Geffen—that, after the first debate in September, they would need an additional $50
million to cover them until election day.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019892
