Jeffrey Epstein, a former Palm Beach resident, pleaded guilty in Palm Beach County
Circuit Court in 2008 to two prostitution-related charges in connection with having
teenage girls give him sexual massages. (Uma Sanghvi / The Palm Beach Post)
Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

Hide caption

Jeffrey Epstein

Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

Hide caption

Attorney Brad Edwards

Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

Hide caption

Attorney Jack Scarola

Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

By

Posted Oct 3, 2017 at 12:01 AM Updated Oct 4, 2017 at 12:46 AM

Ending years of speculation about how much Palm Beach billionaire Jeffrey Epstein
paid young women who claimed he used them as sex toys, court documents filed last
week show he shelled out $5.5 million to settle lawsuits with three of more than two
dozen teens who sued him.

Responding to requests from Epstein’s attorneys in a complex lawsuit that was
spawned by the sex scandal, attorney Bradley Edwards said the politically-
connected 64-year-old convicted sex offender paid more than $1 million to each of
the three women Edwards represented.

Identified in court papers only by their initials or pseudonyms because of the nature
of the allegations and their youthful ages, L.M. was paid $1 million, E.W. $2 million
and Jane Doe $2.5 million, Edwards said of the settlements he negotiated with
Epstein to end the lawsuits.

Jack Goldberger, one of Epstein’s criminal defense attorneys, on Tuesday declined
comment on the revelations, citing confidentiality agreements that were part of the
settlements. For the same reason, he declined to say whether Epstein paid similar
amounts to settle roughly two dozen lawsuits filed by other young women against
Epstein, claiming he paid them for sex when some were as young as 14 years old.
Attorney Jack Scarola, who is representing Edwards, said his client was compelled

to divulge the confidential settlements to answer questions posed by Epstein’s
attorneys. “Brilliant move on their part,” he said.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029860
