given Egypt’s much-savored relationship with other Gulf countries (not to mention the United States). It does
represent a re-balancing of relationships in a changing Middle East nonetheless.

A new round of talks between Iran and the P5+1 (five permanent members of the Security Council plus Germany)
has now been scheduled to take place on February 26 following weeks of conflicting reports and what seemed
to be a diplomatic stalemate. This represents the first effort at talks at the political directors’ level since the
Moscow meeting in June of 2012. While the talks are restarting just over a month after the start of US President
Obama’s second term, Iran appears to have moved into its political season: tensions between President
Ahmadinejad and the speaker of the Majlis, Larjani, have gone public with mutual recriminations about corrupt
family members and associates.

Saudi Arabia: Former intelligence chief Prince Muqrin bin Abdulaziz was appointed second deputy prime minister of Saudi
Arabia on February 2, a role traditionally associated with the incumbent being second in line to become king. Prince
Muarin is the youngest son of the kingdom’s founder.

Yemen: A UN Security Council delegation visited Yemen on January 27 in a show of support to President Hadi
and Yemen’s political transition. The visit reflects the Security Council’s interest in seeing Yemen move forward
with the National Dialogue Conference. During the visit there were large demonstrations, as thousands demanded
a fair and just approach in dealing with former president Ali Abdullah Saleh, who has received immunity under
the Gulf Cooperation Council initiative.

De ee ee ee ee ee ee ee i ee a

The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of

Jeffrey Epstein

Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited
and may be unlawful. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and
destroy this communication and all copies thereof,
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029691
