sexual partners are consenting adults, not whether their desires are innate. Alas, it's clear
that across the world, people who are instinctively grossed out by alternative sexuality
will always find ways to reframe the question into how our acts are just plain wrong and
our consent is irrelevant -- and that's as true of some feminists and cultural loyalists as it
is of Bible-thumpers.

KK ok

This can be found on the Internet at:

http://carnalnation.com/content/5 1544/1 133/colonized-libidos

VEGAN:

[theory] Confections of a Pickup Artist Chaser

I've been vegetarian since 2009 and vegan since 2011; I wrote this in 2012.

TK OK ok

Confections of a Pickup Artist Chaser
There are delicious recipes at the end! Read this article for the recipes!

I feel hyper-aware that this piece may alienate some readers, because it's a post about
being vegan, i.e. not eating animal products. Lot of folks are touchy about that. So, I want
to do some pre-emptive damage control: I want to clarify up front that I have no interest
in calling anyone an asshole. If you're not vegan, then I want to try and change your
mind... but I don't think you're an Incontrovertibly Bad Person, and I hope we can still be
friends.

And, look, I'm not gonna pretend I'm perfect. I screw up all the time, on all kinds of
social justice issues, and I'll be learning for the rest of my life.

For me, the hardest thing about being vegan has nothing to do with the food, although I
think many foods made from animal products are delicious, and occasionally I have
trouble resisting them. For me, the hard part is all about social situations. If I'm at a social
event where non-vegan food is served and there are no other vegans, sometimes I just eat
it -- especially if it will Become A Big Social Problem if I don't eat it. I also sometimes
eat non-vegan food that's been rescued from the trash (some of us call this freegan).
And occasionally, when I'm spending a lot of time with someone who's non-vegan, then
I'll sometimes break veganism in front of them in order to reassure them that I'm not
judging them. I have vegan friends who consider this an unacceptable level of
accommodation; sorry folks.

I am aware that stigmatizing, judging, and attacking non-vegans is one tactic for
convincing them to go vegan. Personally, I find it stressful and frequently

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018596
