parts of my childhood. J reminisced how it had used to be before all my
life turned upside down. Before all of the fights with my family, before I
had to look after myself, and before I was a slave to men.

Those days were too long gone now. With too many hard times passing
me by it seemed surreal to think that life had ever even existed in the first
place. With that thought I shook myself out of reminiscing that way.
Whatever was going to happen was out of my control now, I just had to
give myself some hope that I would have the strength to get myself out
these circumstances before anything really bad happened.

Chapter 2

The house was quiet so I just assumed Charlie was still asleep. |
decided to get cleaned up and have a shower. Not even a knock on the
door when Charlie walked in with ease. “Typical” I thought. It was an
easy way for Charlie to break the ice. “You really are as beautiful as Ron
said” as he opened the curtain. Watching me rinse myself in the shower
and me knowing I had no way out of this except to go along with
whatever he wanted. I just looked down at the mention of Ron’s name,
wondering what else he had told Charlie about me. Realizing later that he
wouldn’t have said anything anyways, in fear I would’ve been a damaged
product that wouldn’t make him the money that young girls go for.

He just sat on the side of the vanity top and continued to take
observations of me standing submerged under the falling water. I avoided
looking at him and let him do all the talking, after all I knew what I had
to say was of no importance, that is if he was anything like Ron. Between
the water beating down over my head I could slightly hear him ramble on
about some club and restaurant he owned in FT. Lauderdale. He said he
was going to take me shopping for some club outfits and we would party
together tonight, as if | was supposed to be excited over this so-called
treat of his.

[looked up-and gave him a quick smile adding a compliant nod and
turned my attention to turning off the faucets and quickly grabbing my
towel. I was falling so far from who I used to be, shying away from my
outgoing personality to a quiet girl that didn’t even recognize herself in
the mirror anymore. I dried myself off and looked at the man standing
between the doorway and me. He was still watching me with a sleazy
look on his face but now preceded to move in my direction, arms wide
open. He embraced me, running his hands up around my youthful curves,
licking my neck and earlobes. Then his large, rough hands cupped my
small breasts and continued downwards to fee! in between my legs. I

13

1) Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004146

knew what I had to do to get this over and done with as quick as possible,
but I was dreading this moment from the second he greeted me at the
door last night.

I fell to my knees and gave into his demented perversions. Thankfully
it didn’t last long before he climaxed and I was allowed to get myself
dressed and ready to go out. I was nothing but money well spent in his
mind. This was another extremely wealthy man with a completely new
set of wants and needs asking a fourteen year old girl to affectionately
dote on sexual desires to a man in his mid forties. I really hated myself,
these men, and just about everything my life had boiled up to by this
point, but I knew from a young age that to survive in this harsh world I
would have to do many things | would not willingly choose to.

At the shops he decided he would choose the clothes he paid for, which
I might as well have been declared a teenage prostitute. Just like Ron he
also liked it that way. The more degrading he was to me only proved his
ownership of my body. He bought me tiny cocktail dresses, and skimpy
outfits, which I thought closely, resembled the lingerie he’d also bought
for me to wear for him. I noticed that day that he enjoyed parading me
around the shopping mall and out for lunch at hooters, even joking with
the waitress that he’d like to buy her uniform because he thought it'd look
sexy on his new girlfriend.

We arrived at his two in one, Restaurant and Club, at around nine
o’clock in the evening. It was a revolving tower called “Hot Chocolates”
in downtown Ft. Lauderdale. The food was delicious and for the first time
since being with Ron, I ordered a hefty meal with steak and mashed
potatoes with a scrumptious gravy smothered on top. Charlie ordered
strong cocktails for us both and before I knew it my head was spinning
and we were on the dance floor together. The music blared in my head
and the rhythm of my body took over, completely forgetting about even
dancing with Charlie and letting the music take ahold and work it’s
magic.

It didn’t do me any justice though as Charlie watched me imagining
what pleasures lay in store for him later on. Taking me home before the
club had even closed, he just couldn’t wait to indulge on exactly what he
was fantasizing from beforehand. Once back at his townhouse he led me
up the stairs into his bedroom and pushed me down in the middle of his
bed. The motions from the wavy mattress made me dizzy and feel even
drunker when he lay on top of me. Coming at me like a hungered beast
wanting to ravage his next meal, it was intimidating as he entered into me
with a forceful thrust, he moaned out in delectable heaves. ] looked away
while he self indulged his own gratifying needs using my body as his
instrument in pleasure. [ only grew stronger in my head letting the hatred
for men desires intensify.

14

U Copyright Protected Material

GIUIFFRLO04 147

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021151
