Among Trump’s first moves as president was to have a series of inspirational
photographs in the West Wing replaced with images of big crowd scenes at his inaugural
ceremony.

Bannon had come to rationalize Trump’s reality distortions. Trump’s hyperbole,
exaggerations, flights of fancy, improvisations, and general freedom toward and mangling
of the facts, were products of the basic lack of guile, pretense, and impulse control that
helped create the immediacy and spontaneity that was so successful with so many on the
stump—while so horrifying to so many others.

For Bannon, Obama was the north star of aloofness. “Politics,” said Bannon with an
authority that belayed the fact that until the previous August he had never worked in
politics, “is a more immediate game than he ever played it.” Trump was, for Bannon, a
modern-day William Jennings Bryan. (Bannon had long talked about the need for a new
Williams Jennings Bryan in right-wing politics, with friends assuming Bannon meant
himself.) At the turn of the twentieth century, Bryan had enthralled rural audiences with
his ability to speak passionately and extemporaneously for apparently unlimited periods of
time. Trump compensated—in the theory of some intimates, including Bannon—for his
difficulties with reading, writing, and close focus with an improvisational style that
produced, if not exactly a William Jennings Bryan effect, certainly close to the exact
opposite of the Obama effect.

It was part hortatory, part personal testimony, part barstool blow-hard, a rambling,
disjointed, digressive, what-me-worry approach that combined aspects of cable television
rage, big-tent religious revivalism, Borscht Belt tummler, motivational speaking, and
YouTube vlogging. Charisma in American politics had come to define an order of charm,
wit, and style—a coolness. But another sort of American charisma was more in the
Christian evangelical vein, an emotional, experiential spectacle.

The Trump campaign had built its central strategy around great rallies regularly
attracting tens of thousands, a political phenomenon that the Democrats both failed to
heed and saw as a sign of Trump’s limited appeal. For the Trump team, this style, this
unmediated connection—his speeches, his tweets, his spontaneous phone calls to radio
and television shows, and, often, to anyone who would listen—was revelatory, a new,
personal, and inspirational politics. For the other side, it was clownishness that, at best,
aspired to the kind of raw, authoritarian demagoguery that had long been discredited by
and assigned to history and that, when it appeared in American politics, reliably failed.

While the advantages of this style for the Trump team were now very clear, the
problem was that it often—in fact regularly—produced assertions that were not remotely
true.

This had led increasingly to the two-different-realities theory of Trump politics. In the
one reality, which encompassed most of Trump’s supporters, his nature was understood

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019918
