biggest difference for yourself and others.

The Point of It All: Drumroll, Please

What man actually needs is not a tensionless state but rather the striving and struggling for a
worthwhile goal, a freely chosen task.

— VIKTOR E. FRANKL, Holocaust survivor; author of Man’s Search for Meaning

I believe that life exists to be enjoyed and that the most important thing is to feel good about yourself.

Each person will have his or her own vehicles for both, and those vehicles will change over time. For
some, the answer will be working with orphans, and for others, it will be composing music. I have a
personal answer to both—to love, be loved, and never stop learning—but I don’t expect that to be
universal.

Some criticize a focus on self-love and enjoyment as selfish or hedonistic, but it’s neither. Enjoying
life and helping others—or feeling good about yourself and increasing the greater good—are no more
mutually exclusive than being agnostic and leading a moral life. One does not preclude the other. Let’s
assume we agree on this. It still leaves the question, “What can I do with my time to enjoy life and feel
good about myself?”

I can’t offer a single answer that will fit all people, but, based on the dozens of fulfilled NR [ve
interviewed, there are two components that are fundamental: continual learning and service.

Learning Unlimited: Sharpening the Saw

Americans who travel abroad for the first time are often shocked to discover that, despite all the
progress that has been made in the last 30 years, many foreign people still speak in foreign
languages.

— DAVE BARRY

T. live is to learn. I see no other option. This is why I’ve felt compelled to quit or be fired from jobs

within the first six months or so. The learning curve flattens out and I get bored.

Though you can upgrade your brain domestically, traveling and relocating provides unique conditions
that make progress much faster. The different surroundings act as a counterpoint and mirror for your own
prejudices, making weaknesses that much easier to fix. I rarely travel somewhere without deciding first
how [Il obsess on a specific skill. Here are a few examples:

e » Connemara, Ireland: Gaelic Irish, Irish flute, and hurling, the

fastest field sport in the world (imagine a mix of lacrosse and
rugby played with axe handles)

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013983
