why he singled her out at the condo board meeting.

In a real sense, however, her advantage was not meeting Trump but being taken up by
the Mercers. They recruited Conway in 2015 to work on the Cruz campaign, when Trump
was still far from the conservative ideal, and then, in August 2016, inserted her into the
Trump campaign.

She understood her role. “I will only ever call you Mr. Trump,” she told the candidate
with perfect-pitch solemnity when he interviewed her for the job. It was a trope she would
repeat in interview after interview—Conway was a catalog of learned lines—a message
repeated as much for Trump as for others.

Her title was campaign manager, but that was a misnomer. Bannon was the real
manager, and she was the senior pollster. But Bannon shortly replaced her in that role and
she was left in what Trump saw as the vastly more important role of cable spokesperson.

Conway seemed to have a convenient On-Off toggle. In private, in the Off position, she
seemed to regard Trump as a figure of exhausting exaggeration or even absurdity—or, at
least, if you regarded him that way, she seemed to suggest that she might, too. She
illustrated her opinion of her boss with a whole series of facial expressions: eyes rolling,
mouth agape, head snapping back. But in the On position, she metamorphosed into
believer, protector, defender, and handler. Conway is an antifeminist (or, actually, in a
complicated ideological somersault, she sees feminists as being antifeminists), ascribing
her methods and temperament to her being a wife and mother. She’s instinctive and
reactive. Hence her role as the ultimate Trump defender: she verbally threw herself in
front of any bullet coming his way.

Trump loved her defend-at-all-costs shtick. Conway’s appearances were on his
schedule to watch live. His was often the first call she got after coming off the air. She
channeled Trump: she said exactly the kind of Trump stuff that would otherwise make her
put a finger-gun to her head.

After the election—Trump’s victory setting off a domestic reordering in the Conway
household, and a scramble to get her husband an administration job—Trump assumed she
would be his press secretary. “He and my mother,” Conway said, “because they both
watch a lot of television, thought this was one of the most important jobs.” In Conway’s
version, she turned Trump down or demurred. She kept proposing alternatives in which
she would be the key spokesperson but would be more as well. In fact, almost everyone
else was maneuvering Trump around his desire to appoint Conway.

Loyalty was Trump’s most valued attribute, and in Conway’s view her kamikaze-like
media defense of the president had earned her a position of utmost primacy in the White
House. But in her public persona, she had pushed the boundaries of loyalty too far; she
was so hyperbolic that even Trump loyalists found her behavior extreme and were
repelled. None were more put off than Jared and Ivanka, who, appalled at the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020035
