54046

Federal Register/Vol. 76, No. 168/Tuesday, August 30, 2011/Rules and Regulations

effective date of the rule is 75 days after
publication in the Federal Register.21%

List of Subjects in 29 CFR Part 104

Administrative practice and
procedure, Employee rights, Labor
unions.

Text of Final Rule

Accordingly, a new part 104 is added
to 29 CFR chapter 1 to read as follows:

PART 104—NOTIFICATION OF
EMPLOYEE RIGHTS; OBLIGATIONS
OF EMPLOYERS

Subpart A—Definitions, Requirements for
Employee Notice, and Exceptions and
Exemptions

Sec.

104.201 What definitions apply to this part?

104.202 What employee notice must
employers subject to the NLRA post in
the workplace?

104.203 Are Federal contractors covered
under this part?

104.204 What entities are not subject to this
part?

Appendix to Subpart A—Text of Employee
Notice

Subpart B—General Enforcement and
Complaint Procedures

104.210 How will the Board determine
whether an employer is in compliance
with this part?

104.211 What are the procedures for filing
a charge?

104.212 What are the procedures to be
followed when a charge is filed alleging
that an employer has failed to post the
required employee notice?

104.213 What remedies are available to cure
a failure to post the employee notice?

104.214 How might other Board
proceedings be affected by failure to post
the employee notice?

Subpart C—Ancillary Matters

104.220 What other provisions apply to this
part?

rule’ because, as explained in the discussion of the
Regulatory Flexibility Act above, the Board has
estimated that the average cost of compliance with
the rule will be approximately $64.40 per affected
employer; thus, because there are some 6 million
employers that could potentially be affected by the
rule, the total cost to the economy of compliance
with the rule will be approximately $386.4 million.
As further explained, nearly all of that cost will be
incurred during the year in which the rule takes
effect; in subsequent years, the only costs of
compliance will be those incurred by employers
that either open new facilities or expand existing
ones, and those that for one reason or another fail
to comply with the rule during the first year. The
Board therefore expects that the costs of compliance
will be far less than $100 million in the second and
subsequent years. The Board is confident that the
rule will have none of the effects enumerated in 5
U.S.C. 804(2)(B) and (C) above.

213 The Board finds unpersuasive the suggestions
in several comments that the effective date of the
rule be postponed to as late as April 15, 2012. The
Board finds nothing in the requirements of the rule
or in the comments received that would warrant
postponing the effective date.

Authority: National Labor Relations Act
(NLRA), Section 6, 29 U.S.C. 156;
Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 553.

Subpart A—Definitions, Requirements
for Employee Notice, and Exceptions
and Exemptions

§ 104.201
part?

Employee includes any employee, and
is not limited to the employees of a
particular employer, unless the NLRA
explicitly states otherwise. The term
includes anyone whose work has ceased
because of, or in connection with, any
current labor dispute or because of any
unfair labor practice, and who has not
obtained any other regular and
substantially equivalent employment.
However, it does not include
agricultural laborers, supervisors, or
independent contractors, or anyone
employed in the domestic service of any
family or person at his home, or by his
parent or spouse, or by an employer
subject to the Railway Labor Act (45
U.S.C. 151 ef seq.), or by any other
person who is not an employer as
defined in the NLRA. 29 U.S.C. 152(3).

Employee notice means the notice set
forth in the Appendix to Subpart A of
this part that employers subject to the
NLRA must post pursuant to this part.

Employer includes any person acting
as an agent of an employer, directly or
indirectly. The term does not include
the United States or any wholly owned
Government corporation, or any Federal
Reserve Bank, or any State or political
subdivision thereof, or any person
subject to the Railway Labor Act, or any
labor organization (other than when
acting as an employer), or anyone acting
in the capacity of officer or agent of
such labor organization. 29 U.S.C.
152(2). Further, the term “‘employer”
does not include entities over which the
Board has been found not to have
jurisdiction, or over which the Board
has chosen through regulation or
adjudication not to assert jurisdiction.

Labor organization means any
organization of any kind, or any agency
or employee representation committee
or plan, in which employees participate
and which exists for the purpose, in
whole or in part, of dealing with
employers concerning grievances, labor
disputes, wages, rates of pay, hours of
employment, or conditions of work. 29
U.S.C. 152(5).

National Labor Relations Board
(Board) means the National Labor
Relations Board provided for in section
3 of the National Labor Relations Act, 29
U.S.C. 153. 29 U.S.C. 152(10).

Person includes one or more
individuals, labor organizations,

What definitions apply to this

partnerships, associations, corporations,
legal representatives, trustees, trustees
in cases under title 11 of the United
States Code, or receivers. 29 U.S.C.
152(1).

Rules, regulations, and orders, as used
in § 104.202, means rules, regulations,
and relevant orders issued by the Board
pursuant to this part.

Supervisor means any individual
having authority, in the interest of the
employer, to hire, transfer, suspend, lay
off, recall, promote, discharge, assign,
reward, or discipline other employees,
or responsibly to direct them, or to
adjust their grievances, or effectively to
recommend such action, if in
connection with the foregoing the
exercise of such authority is not of a
merely routine or clerical nature, but
requires the use of independent
judgment. 29 U.S.C. 152(11).

Unfair labor practice means any
unfair labor practice listed in section 8
of the National Labor Relations Act, 29
U.S.C. 158. 29 U.S.C. 152(8).

Union means a labor organization as
defined above.

§ 104.202 What employee notice must
employers subject to the NLRA post in the
workplace?

(a) Posting of emplovee notice. All
employers subject to the NLRA must
post notices to employees, in
conspicuous places, informing them of
their NLRA rights, together with Board
contact information and information
concerning basic enforcement
procedures, in the language set forth in
the Appendix to Subpart A of this part.

(b) Size and form requirements. The
notice to employees shall be at least 11
inches by 17 inches in size, and in such
format, type size, and style as the Board
shall prescribe. If an employer chooses
to print the notice after downloading it
from the Board’s Web site, the printed
notice shall be at least 11 inches by 17
inches in size.

(c) Adaptation of language. The
National Labor Relations Board may
find that an Act of Congress,
clarification of existing law by the
courts or the Board, or other
circumstances make modification of the
employee notice necessary to achieve
the purposes of this part. In such
circumstances, the Board will promptly
issue rules, regulations, or orders as are
needed to ensure that all future
employee notices contain appropriate
language to achieve the purposes of this

art.
p (d) Physical posting of employee
notice. The employee notice must be
posted in conspicuous places where
they are readily seen by employees,
including all places where notices to

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022317
