designated by KULG are members, will be the holder of the Profits Participation LP Units (the “Profits
Participation Limited Partner”) with the economic rights as set forth in “— Distributions” below. KULG LLC-
1 will undertake that no more than 9% of the KUE Partnership Interests outstanding immediately after the
final closing of the offering or thereafter will be held directly or indirectly by or for the account of the
Principals and their Affiliates through the Profits Participation LP Units of KUE. At least 2/t1ths of the
Profits Participation LP Units outstanding will be issued to or reserved for the benefit of members of
KULG LLC-1 that are not the Principals or their affiliates, and may include employees, officers, directors,
consultants and agents of KUE, its subsidiaries and joint ventures as designated by KULG. At each
closing of any sale of Units to investors where the aggregate purchase price of all Units acquired by
Investors to date is less than or equal to $1.5 billion (during the Offering Period or thereafter), the Profits
Participation Limited Partner will be issued a number of Profits Participation LP Units such that the
aggregate shall equal at least 9/11ths of the 11% of “Partnership Units” (Common LP Units, GP Units,
and Profits Participation LP Units) that may be represented by Profits Participation LP Units. Additional
Profits Participation LP Units will be issued to the Profits Participation Limited Partner, at such time and in
such numbers as the Profits Participation Limited Partner will direct, based upon the issuance by the
Profit Participation Limited Partner of interests fo members of the Profits Participation Limited Partner
(who may include employees, officers, directors, consultants and agents of KUE, its subsidiaries and joint
ventures as designated by KULG other than the Principals and their affiliates), the vesting schedule of
such interests, and whether certain tax elections are made by the recipients of such interests; provided,
however, the total number of Profits Participation LP Units shall not exceed a number equal to eleven
percent (11%} of the aggregate number of Partnership Units. Any increase in the number of Profits
Participation LP Units following the sale of the first $1.5 billion of Common LP Units to Investors requires
a majority vote of the Independent Committee.

Subsequent to the completion of this offering, KUE may raise additional capital through the sale of equity
or debt securities. KUE will not have any preferred limited partner units outstanding upon completion of
this offering but KUE may issue limited partner units with preferences over the Common LP Units in the
future and may amend the Limited Partnership Agreement accordingly.

Since the General Partner will have a nominal economic interest in KUE, the Class A Shares are
expected to have nominal economic value. The Class A Shares are, however, intended to provide Unit
holders with certain voting and other governance rights in the General Partner (as described further below)
which, in turn, will control KUE.

14.4. Admission of Partners to KUE

The General Pariner may admit one or more Persons as additional Partners of KUE on such terms as the
General Partner will determine. Upon the admission of additional Partners, the capital accounts of the
Partners will be increased or decreased, as the case may be, to reflect the gross asset values of KUE's
assets pursuant fo Regulation Section 1.704-1(b)(2){iviig). The amount of any such increase or decrease
will be allocated among the Partners whe were Partners immediately prior to the admission of additional
Partners as if such increase or decrease constituted income or loss, respectively, in accordance with the
allocation provisions of the Limited Partnership Agreement.

Not in limitation of the foregoing, Investors admitted during the Offering Period after the first closing of this
offering and after September 30, 2006 will pay an additional amount accruing at a rate of 0.67% per
month calculated from the first closing date of the offering (pro-rated for partial periods) for each Common
LP Units purchased, which will be distributed promptly to the holders of Common LP Units outstanding
prior to such admission in proportion to the number of Common LP Units heid by such holders.

117

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024550
