124 Teaching Minds

repeated exposure and analysis. It always involves a lot of talking. And
therein lies the problem. Since appreciation and enjoyment are sub-
conscious processes, it stands to reason that these processes are best
addressed by a methodology that is less conscious. Telling me why I
should like something is not likely to do much more than teach me
how to talk about something as if I liked it. I can point out the finer
points of baseball to you, but if you don’t care, I won’t be able to get
you to go to the next baseball game.

On the other hand, of course, you certainly won’t like baseball if
you have never seen it played. Exposure is the key to teaching subcon-
scious processes. Add to that an enjoyable atmosphere surrounding
the experience, especially if it is early on in one’s life, associated with
the artistry you want to teach, and it is likely that the learner will learn
to like whatever he is being exposed to. So, evaluation, which starts
out as a subconscious process, must be taught by enabling copying
and repeated practice, but cannot easily be taught verbally.

HOW TO TEACH DIAGNOSIS

Diagnosis is the same and it is different. Many different people do di-
agnosis under many different circumstances. But, the process is always
the same. So it seems normal to ask why an expert in doing diagno-
sis in one area cannot do diagnosis nearly as well in another area of
knowledge. Why can’t a doctor fix his own car? Why can’t a detective
figure out why a business is failing? It is all diagnosis after all.

Diagnosis is best taught early on but it can be taught at any age.
In the end, it is just about knowing what counts as evidence and how
to create and rule out hypotheses. The general process of gathering
evidence and testing hypotheses is the same no matter what you are
doing. This is true in principle, of course, not in actual fact. In reality,
doctors cannot rule out hypotheses by tests that might harm the pa-
tient. Businesspeople cannot rule out hypotheses by running control
businesses that may lose money while others make money. Detectives
cannot spoil a crime scene by altering the evidence. Mechanics cannot
try something that might make things worse. Investors cannot control
world events that might make a seemingly correct hypothesis still not
work out all that well.

To teach diagnosis, simple problems can be worked on that lead to
more complex problems. What is being taught, apart from the process

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023870
