12 1 Introduction

group. One of the key ideas involved in this project is explicit integration of subsymbolic and
more symbolic subsystems. For instance, one can use a purely subsymbolic, hierarchical pattern
recognition network for vision processing, and then link its internal structures into the nodes
and links in the AtomSpace that represent concepts. So the subsymbolic and symbolic systems
can work harmoniously and productively together, a notion we will review in more detail in
Chapter 26.

1.9 Language Learning

One of the subtler aspects of our current approach to teaching CogPrime is language learning.
Three relatively crisp and simple approaches to language learning would be:

e Build a language processing system using hand-coded grammatical rules, based on linguistic
theory;

e Train a language processing system using supervised, unsupervised or semisupervised learn-
ing, based on computational linguistics;

e Have an AI system learn language via experience, based on imitation and reinforcement and
experimentation, without any built-in distinction between linguistic behaviors and other
behaviors.

While the third approach is conceptually appealing, our current approach in CogPrime (de-
scribed in a series of chapters in Part 2) is none of the above, but rather a combination of the
above. OpenCog contains a natural language processing system built using a combination of
the rule-based and statistical approaches, which has reasonably adequate functionality; and our
plan is to use it as an initial condition for ongoing adaptive improvement based on embodied
communicative experience.

1.10 AGI Ethics

When discussing AGI work with the general public, ethical concerns often arise. Science fic-
tion films like the Terminator series have raised public awareness of the possible dangers of
advanced AGI systems without correspondingly advanced ethics. Non-profit organizations like
the Singularity Institute for AI ( (http://singinst.org) have arisen specifically to raise attention
about, and foster research on, these potential dangers.

Our main focus here is on how to create AGI, not how to teach an AGI human ethical
principles. However, we will address the latter issue explicitly in Chapter 12, and we do think it’s
important to emphasize that AGI ethics has been at the center of the design process throughout
the conception and development of CogPrime and OpenCog.

Broadly speaking there are (at least) two major threats related to advanced AGI. One is
that people might use AGIs for bad ends; and the other is that, even if an AGI is made with
the best intentions, it might reprogram itself in a way that causes it to do something terrible.
If it’s smarter than us, we might be watching it carefully while it does this, and have no idea
what’s going on.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012928
