moderate Democratic view. As for Trump himself, here was a man who was simply trying
to get out from under something he didn’t especially care about.

Ryan and Priebus’s salesmanship promised to get the president out from under other
issues as well. Health care reform, according to the Ryan plan, was something of a magic
bullet. The reform the Speaker would push through Congress would fund the tax cuts
Trump had guaranteed, which, in turn, would make all that Trump-promised infrastructure
investment possible.

On this basis—this domino theory that was meant to triumphantly carry the Trump
administration through to the August recess and mark it as one of the most
transformational presidencies in modern times—Ryan kept his job as Speaker, rising from
hated campaign symbol to the administration’s man on the Hill. In effect, the president,
quite aware of his and his staff’s inexperience in drafting legislation (in fact, nobody on
his senior staff had any experience at all), decided to outsource his agenda—and to a
heretofore archenemy.

Watching Ryan steal the legislative initiative during the transition, Bannon faced an
early realpolitik moment. If the president was willing to cede major initiatives, Bannon
would need to run a counteroperation and be ready with more Breitbart shenanigans.
Kushner, for his part, developed a certain Zen—you just had to go with the president’s
whims. As for the president, it was quite clear that deciding between contradictory policy
approaches was not his style of leadership. He simply hoped that difficult decisions would
make themselves.

7 OK Ok

Bannon was not merely contemptuous of Ryan’s ideology; he had no respect, either, for
his craft. In Bannon’s view, what the new Republican majority needed was a man like
John McCormick, the Democratic Speaker of the House who had served during Bannon’s
teenage years and had shepherded Johnson’s Great Society legislation. McCormick and
other Democrats from the 1960s were Bannon’s political heroes—put Tip O’Neill in that
pantheon, too. An Irish Catholic working-class man was philosophically separate from
aristocrats and gentry—and without aspirations to be either. Bannon venerated old-
fashioned pols. He looked like one himself: liver spots, jowls, edema. And he hated
modern politicians; they lacked, in addition to political talents, authenticity and soul. Ryan
was an Irish Catholic altar boy who had stayed an altar boy. He had not grown up to be a
thug, cop, or priest—or a true politician.

Ryan certainly wasn’t a vote counter. He was a benighted figure who had no ability to
see around corners. His heart was in tax reform, but as far as he could tell the only path to
tax reform was through health care. But he cared so little about the issue that—yjust as the
White House had outsourced health care to him—he outsourced the writing of the bill to
insurance companies and K Street lobbyists.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020008
