diplomacy by the CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at the
core, and a fundamental guideline for China’s external work in the new
era...We should integrate our thoughts and actions into General Secretary
Xi Jinping’s important address and Xi Jinping thought on diplomacy, and
make new advances in China's external work.

To an international foreign policy audience, this may all seem a little arcane. That’s because
in the internal ideological deliberations of a one party state, it is arcane. But we would be
blind not to see that there is something new at play here. It is unclear whether this means
Chinese foreign policy is likely to be more Marxist in its conceptualisation, or even its
execution? Whether it likely to be more Nationalist? Whether it will seek to more actively
promote the Chinese development model of “authoritarian capitalism” as a model for the
world, in competition with the “liberal democratic capitalism” of the West? Whether it is a
much more unformed worldview which will ultimately take shape around Xi Jinping’s as-yet-
deliberately-vague concept of “a global community of common destiny,” which is now the
subject of intense work within China’s think tank community, and with the international
academic community.

Or whether it is something more mechanistic than that altogether, involving a desire to fire
up China’s current diplomatic establishment into a more invigorated, imaginative, creative,
even forceful effort to shape the future global rules-based order more in China‘s image, rather
than China being the permanent “price -taker” for rules already determined elsewhere by
others. Particularly where elements of the existing order are seen to represent a continuing
and unwelcome challenge to the legitimacy of China’s domestic political order, for example in
areas such as the rule of law, human rights and democracy.

A NEW IDEOLOGICAL CONFIDENCE THAT HISTORY FAVOURS CHINA

There is a second element to the June 2018 Conference which grows out of the first. It is Xi’s
deeply Marxist, dialectical-materialist view of history based on permanently evolving
“contradictions” between what dialecticians call thesis, antithesis and synthesis. In Xi’s view,
this in turn gives rise to defined “laws” of historical development which are both prescriptive
and predictive.

This may sound like old-fashioned Marxism. That’s because it is. The intellectual software of
generations of Chinese leaders has been shaped by this conceptual framework for interpreting
and responding to what they define as scientific, objective reality. And Xi Jinping belongs to
that tradition. Remember he has already convened special study sessions of the politburo on
understanding both dialectical and historical materialism in the past.

According to the conference report: “Xi suggested to not only observe the current international
situation, but also review the past, summarise historical laws, and look towards the future to
better understand the trend of history.” Furthermore, according to the same report in Xinhua,
to obtain “an accurate understanding of the overall situation, Xi underlined not only the
observation of detailed phenomena, but also a deep appreciation of the essence of the overall

5 of 10

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026860
