How to Teach the Twelve Cognitive Processes 1719

homes, cars, toys, games, lifestyles, behaviors, hairdos. . . . The list is
seemingly infinite.

We may not see ourselves as experimenting when we try out some-
thing new. We often experiment ineffectively. Learning to experiment
in a reasonable way is yet again something that can be done only
through experience. But, in this case, there really is an experimental
process to be learned. It can be taught early on by finding simple ex-
periments that small children really are interested in doing—they do
not all have to do the same ones since it doesn’t matter what they do.
They can learn to attempt to control the variables and see what hap-
pens in a variety of circumstances. This is, again, the scientific meth-
od, but the issue is really not teaching science so much as it is teaching
a scientific approach to gathering useful knowledge. What constitutes
evidence and how to draw conclusions are the kinds of things that a
teacher can help with. Here again, a case base is acquired and relied on
throughout this process. The discussion of findings so that they can be
mentally indexed is very important part of the process.

But how do we find out what is true? Ask any 5-year-old this
question and the answer is not very likely to be, We run an experi-
ment. Ask mommy, is more likely or, Ask the teacher, if the kid is in
school.

But, testing hypotheses is a critical part of learning to think. Of
course, one has to have a hypothesis first. Children are rarely asked
for their hypotheses about things. This is not exactly odd because al-
though children do have them, it is a weird kind of discussion to have
with a 5-year-old. Nevertheless, it is important to do. Teaching chil-
dren to form and test hypotheses is as simple as asking them to do it.
But, here again, asking them to do it must be done within the context
of something they really care about. There have been many attempts
over the course of educational history to teach kids science by having
them run experiments; sometimes they are asked simply to replicate
old experiments and sometimes they are asked to try new ideas out
and figure things out for themselves. While the latter is most certainly
preferable, these experiments tend to be about testing water quality,
or nutrients in the soil, subjects that are not exactly on the mind of a
5-year-old.

What is on the mind of a 5-year-old? He might be wondering
about how to deal with his baby sister. Or he might be wondering

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023865
