“Bolton’s mustache is a problem,” snorted Bannon. “Trump doesn’t think he looks the
part. You know Bolton is an acquired taste.”

“Well, rumors were that he got in trouble because he got in a fight in a hotel one night
and chased some woman.”

“If I told Trump that, he might have the job.”

OOK Ok

Bannon was curiously able to embrace Trump while at the same time suggesting he did
not take him entirely seriously. He had first met Trump, the on-again off-again presidential
candidate, in 2010; at a meeting in Trump Tower, Bannon had proposed to Trump that he
spend half a million dollars backing Tea Party-style candidates as a way to further his
presidential ambitions. Bannon left the meeting figuring that Trump would never cough up
that kind of dough. He just wasn’t a serious player. Between that first encounter and mid-
August 2016, when he took over the Trump campaign, Bannon, beyond a few interviews
he had done with Trump for his Breitbart radio show, was pretty sure he hadn’t spent more
than ten minutes in one-on-one conversation with Trump.

But now Bannon’s Zeitgeist moment had arrived. Everywhere there was a sudden
sense of global self-doubt. Brexit in the UK, waves of immigrants arriving on Europe’s
angry shores, the disenfranchisement of the workingman, the specter of more financial
meltdown, Bernie Sanders and his liberal revanchism—everywhere was backlash. Even
the most dedicated exponents of globalism were hesitating. Bannon believed that great
numbers of people were suddenly receptive to a new message: the world needs borders—
or the world should return to a time when it had borders. When America was great. Trump
had become the platform for that message.

By that January evening, Bannon had been immersed in Donald Trump’s world for
almost five months. And though he had accumulated a sizable catalogue of Trump’s
peculiarities, and cause enough for possible alarm about the unpredictability of his boss
and his views, that did not detract from Trump’s extraordinary, charismatic appeal to the
right-wing, Tea Party, Internet meme base, and now, in victory, from the opportunity he
was giving Steve Bannon.

OOK Ok

“Does he get it?” asked Ailes suddenly, pausing and looking intently at Bannon.

He meant did Trump get it. This seemed to be a question about the right-wing agenda:
Did the playboy billionaire really get the workingman populist cause? But it was possibly
a point-blank question about the nature of power itself. Did Trump get where history had
put him?

Bannon took a sip of water. “He gets it,” said Bannon, after hesitating for perhaps a
beat too long. “Or he gets what he gets.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019886
