COWEN
COLLABORATIVE INSIGHTS

February 25, 2019

Wide Range Of Returns On CBD

There is little data on economics for hemp CBD cultivation given wide range of outcomes
that can result on the seed vs clone decision (CBD levels vary for each and will impact
cost), as well as the type of production model used. The University of Kentucky (College
of Agriculture) recently published six budget models for industrial hemp producers. Four
of the six budgets address CBD hemp, with a separate budget for grain and another for
fiber. We highlight the University of Kentucky’s CBD Plasticulture budget model below
since it is the most profitable and will likely be the most commonly implemented. We
note all four of the CBD hemp models indicate a positive return above variable costs per
acre while hemp grain and hemp fiber do not reach breakeven due to low pricing for
both harvestable components.

University Of Kentucky’s Budget Assumptions For CBD Plasticulture:

e Dry matter yield per acre: UK estimates 1,200 Ibs of dry matter yield produced
per acre based on 1,500 plants per acre (recall 5 ft. 5ft. allows for up to 1,742
plant per acre) and 0.8 Ib of dry matter yield per plant (yield per plant can
range from 0.5 Ib-1.5 Ibs).

e Gross return per acre: CBD concentration and price per % are the factors that
determine the price of dry matter yield/Ib. In the below example, 6% CBD% *
$5.00 per % = $30/Ib. Gross return per acre is then calculated by multiplying
dry matter yield/lb by dry matter yield/acre (1,200).

e Variable cost per acre: 72% of variable cost per acre is for clone transplants for
1,500 plants at $5.00 each. Other notable costs include planting, plastic to
protect against weeds, drip line for water, harvesting costs, cash rent and
application/test fees. We note clones currently can range from $3.50-$5.50
per plant. Clones have become more common than seeds in Kentucky as they
offer an easy way to produce female plants. A seed mix may be cheaper but
would include male seeds than can potentially pollinate female seeds and
negatively impact CBD concentration which influences pricing for dry matter
yield. Feminized seeds are an option but will likely be the most expensive
option. We note that the model assumes outdoor production rather than
greenhouse production since a greenhouse is efficient for clone production
(then transplanted to the field) but prohibitive for plant production.

COWEN.COM

13

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024829
