this in every possible way. Even though a week’s wages for working a
full-time job as a waitress didn’t come close to the money I had made in a
couple hours of working for Jeffrey, I was happier than I had been in a
long time. I made some friends at my new job and found my duties to be
easy and pleasant. I was good at making customers smile and keeping
them happy becoming the waitress that made the most tips for the night,
which in turn made my co-workers happy since we'd all split the tips at
the end of the week. For the first time in a long time I had boys my age
hitting onto me, and not that 1 was ever taken aback by there attempts but
it reminded me of how it felt to be around a younger crowd. I missed so
much of what I couldn’t get back and the more | tasted it, the more I
remembered how to smile. The relationship between T.J and | began to
falter in a way that was beyond reconciliation. Fights became physical
and I saw sides to him that only pushed me away more. He refused to
look for work to help pay bills and he became utterly frustrated not
having his usual cocktail of assorted drugs to keep him from feeling
anything at all. He didn’t like the fact I was growing inside and thinking
beyond his elusive world. I had gone through too much to accept another
form of abuse and degradation. Making that point very clear to him by
kicking him out of my apartment back to live with his parents, I felt
liberated like never before. | kept up with my rent and cleaned my act up.
Enrolling in a yoga course and keeping my focus on staying fit and
healthy became my only source of enjoyment. I-was free and living for
myself.

While out doing the grocery shopping one evening I couldn’t help but
stop at the local pet store and fell in love with a furry pooch. She was a
Japanese Chow-Chow and a bundle of fur that more resembled a baby
brown bear than a dog. | took her home with me and instantly she became
my best friend. We went for several walks a day and she bore the brunt of
many tear filled conversations, she was my loyal companion who
understood more than anyone had before, all I really need was someone
to listen and funny enough it was her that filled that hole.

Nearly three months had gone by and not a word from Jeffrey or
Ghislane. With TJ out of the picture now too all T had to concentrate on
was work, my parents and brothers, and of course my dog, Mary-Jane. I
was going to family night dinners and bon fires again. My older brother
was getting married to an amazing woman in a few weeks and I got to be
apart of their beautiful ceremony. Small details of life’s journey that I
already missed so much of and now being able to smile at the simple
things day in day out really seemed to put the real value of life into
perspective for me. Everything seemed to be working out for itself and I
was really happy, until he came back, T.J thought he’d come over my
place one evening while I was sitting at home just watching TV.

83

| Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004216

Obviously mentally distorted from whatever choice of drugs he was
smoking that night. He screamed down my apartment complex, going
mad and scaring my neighbors I felt like I had no choice but to let him
inside. I tried talking to him as a good friend would, just wanting him to
see what he was doing to himself and what he had become. Part of me
still loved him and took pity on watching him spiral downwards. Taking
him back into my life was not a decision I made whole-heartedly, but was
something I did out of guilt and what I thought was loyalty. He moved his
clothes back to my place, which was all he ever owned anyways and we
tried to pick up the broken pieces. T.J being still badly addicted to many
drugs, I had to be very careful where 1 kept my jewelry and expensive
items. [ decided to rent out a space at a local spot and store my cherished
items away, just taking the necessary precautions, I thought.

Still not working I knew how he was scraping by money and I didn’t
agree with it, T.J was a known thief and had been caught several times
attempting to steal things, even as stupid as DVD’s and PS2 or Xbox
games from a local Blockbuster. He even stole from his parents, his sister
and his brother and would probably steal a piece of candy from a five
year old kid if he knew that it would get him his next fix. He hated the
change in myself, realizing I couldn’t be brought back down by his ways
but knowing I still stuck by his side and defended him from anything that
would hurt him wanting to believe that he still wanted show the bits of
human nature left in his empty heart.

Unable to stand by and see me do well for myself he contemplated a
way to try and bring me down. After a busy shift one night, he retaliated
with another show of control. I had just finished cleaning up my area and
setting out the tables to be ready for the next day when I went to the bar
to hang up my apron and put my nights tips in the tip bowl on the counter
by the beer tap. On one of his drug induced rampages he stormed into the
restaurant where I was working and started to pick a fight with me. |
knew he was off his face when he started accusing me of sleeping with
my manager on shift that evening. Having no bias or ground to stand on
in his attempt to make me look bad in front of everyone, I just laughed
him off as a drunk idiot who needed to go home and sleep off the night’s
repercussions, although I was fuming inside that he embarrassed me but I
still made excuses for him and told my boss I had to leave early to bring
him home.

The bar was deserted as T.J waited alone for me slumped in a barstool
and looking worse for wear. [ had to go to the back of the restaurant and
do some explaining to the manager on duty, | couldn’t afford to lose my
job over this incident. Surprisingly he was sympathetic towards my
dilemma and even told me I could do a lot better than that schmuck,
patting my back and telling me to have a couple days off. 1 punched out

84

D Copyright Protected Material

GIUFFRLE0042 17

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021186
