Reflections on Invisible Connections

Echoing a prominent theme in
this volume, Christopher Masi highlights
once again the centrality of social
connectedness for human well-being and
the function of loneliness in signaling a
rupture in a sense of social
connectedness. One might reasonably
expect that a social species like Homo
sapiens would have a sufficiently large
behavioral repertoire to be able to
resolve feelings of isolation and restore a
sense of social connectedness. Although
resolution is accomplished readily in
some instances for some people some of
the time, the reality is that at times
people are at a chronic loss for how to
satisfy their need for social connection.
Unfortunately, the invisible bonds of
social connection are not easily repaired.
We see others’ social activity, but we do
not see how they feel about their social
lives and sense of connection. Despite
our inability to recognize loneliness in
others, or, as Nick Epley and Jean
Decety argued earlier in this volume,
because of this handicap in seeing into
the minds of others, we tend to attribute
to others what we ourselves have felt or
would expect to feel in particular
circumstances. Is it any surprise that we
target for intervention those
circumstances where we observe few
opportunities for social interaction,
inadequate social skills, and poor social
support? On the other hand, because
loneliness is in the mind of the sufferer,
it is perhaps surprising that we would
expect changes in objective social
circumstances to be sufficient to
alleviate loneliness in all its sufferers.
Masi provides a quantitative review of
strategies employed to alleviate
loneliness to show that interventions to
date have been only modestly successful
in reducing feelings of loneliness,

Page |138

attesting to the challenge of effectively
addressing the problem of ruptured
social connections.

Invisibility should not thwart
attempts to alleviate distress, however.
Biological causes of disease were no
more visible or evident in the 18
century than psychological causes are
today. Yet significant scientific advances
during the 19 and 20 centuries
completely revolutionized medical
practice, life expectancy, and quality of
life. Farr Curlin is less interested in the
invisible causes of disease than in the
primordial need for social connection
that John Cacioppo introduced and that
Curlin regards as a preexistent condition
for medicine. If science can be viewed as
a cognitive system that steps us back so
that we can deal more objectively and
effectively with another person’s
distress, then religion can be viewed as a
cognitive system that steps us forward to
connect and care for others. Curlin
argues that the practice of medicine
requires a balance of these forces, and
that the resulting tension between the
two produces better care for the patient
than does the practice of medicine using
either alone.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021384
