“No way we'll get fifty million unless we can guarantee him victory,” said a clear-eyed
Kushner.

“Twenty-five million?” prodded Bannon.
“If we can say victory 1s more than likely.”

In the end, the best Trump would do is loan the campaign $10 million, provided he got
it back as soon as they could raise other money. (Steve Mnuchin, then the campaign’s
finance chairman, came to collect the loan with the wire instructions ready to go, so
Trump couldn’t conveniently forget to send the money.)

There was in fact no real campaign because there was no real organization, or at best
only a uniquely dysfunctional one. Roger Stone, the early de facto campaign manager, quit
or was fired by Trump—with each man publicly claiming he had slapped down the other.
Sam Nunberg, a Trump aide who had worked for Stone, was noisily ousted by
Lewandowski, and then Trump exponentially increased the public dirty-clothes-washing
by suing Nunberg. Lewandowski and Hope Hicks, the PR aide put on the campaign by
Ivanka Trump, had an affair that ended in a public fight on the street—an incident cited by
Nunberg in his response to Trump’s suit. The campaign, on its face, was not designed to
win anything.

Even as Trump eliminated the sixteen other Republican candidates, however far-
fetched that might have seemed, it did not make the ultimate goal of winning the
presidency any less preposterous.

And if, during the fall, winning seemed slightly more plausible, that evaporated with
the Billy Bush affair. “I’m automatically attracted to beautiful—I just start kissing them,”
Trump told the NBC host Billy Bush on an open mic, amid the ongoing national debate
about sexual harassment. “It’s like a magnet. Just kiss. I don’t even wait. And when you’re
a star they let you do it. You can do anything... . Grab them by the pussy. You can do
anything.”

It was an operatic unraveling. So mortifying was this development that when Reince
Priebus, the RNC head, was called to New York from Washington for an emergency

meeting at Trump Tower, he couldn’t bring himself to leave Penn Station. It took two
hours for the Trump team to coax him across town.

“Bro,” said a desperate Bannon, cajoling Priebus on the phone, “I may never see you
again after today, but you gotta come to this building and you gotta walk through the front
door.”

OOK Ok

The silver lining of the ignominy Melania Trump had to endure after the Billy Bush tape
was that now there was no way her husband could become president.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019893
