Knowledge 141

You might argue we could devise a more sophisticated mechanical
filter, something that contains an algorithm with an understanding of the
rules of language. The problem is both the size of the task and the nature
of understanding. If I devised some really good appreciation algorithm
which did not delete all the creative words of the English language, it
would still have to read and appreciate the huge quantities of input until
it hit upon something good. There is no way for any machine to read
all this information in the age of our Universe; the numbers are just too
large. And there is no way for a machine to understand all the rules of
language, they are not written down and constantly evolve.

These descriptions should give you an intuitive feel for nature of the
creative problem. If you try to deconstruct it into mechanical steps you
end up with either a mechanism that needs to be infinitely specified or
one that lets through an infinite quantity of nonsense. A human could
never sift through all that garbage to find the occasional pearl of wisdom.

Until the beginning of the 20 century, most people thought
knowledge and creativity must be just a matter of scale. A big enough,
fast enough machine should be able to solve any problem. But early in
the 1930s two mathematicians — Kurt Godel and Alan Turing — showed
knowledge was not so simple. Let me give you a feel for why.

Knowing When You Know

The essence of creating knowledge, is to know when you have done so.
In a sense, counting from one to infinity means I know everything, and
merely counting to 50 million creates every piece of significant symbolic
knowledge that will ever be written — all the books, plays, mathematical
theorems you could possibly want. But, if I were to list all these numbers
in an enormous imaginary book it would hardly constitute knowing
everything: I would be awash with numbers but not with knowledge.

The essential feature of ‘knowing’ is to have a small number of steps
that will definitely answer a problem. For example, if I wish to phone
someone I can look up their details on my phone. The process will tell
me their number in two or three steps. If you tell me the number is
somewhere in the phone book this is not knowledge. It could mean I
need an infinite number of steps.

If I accidentally deleted all the names in my phone - a nightmare
scenario — and just had a print out of numbers would I still ‘know’ them?
Obviously I would recognize my mother’s number, but most of them
would be useless. To know something, I need link the information to
what it is for. A number with a name allows me to predict what will

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015831
