authors with the precision of a Swiss watch.

Heather Jackson, your insightful editing and incredible cheer-leading has made this book a pleasure to
write. Thank you for believing in me! I am honored to be your writer. To the rest of the Crown team,
especially those whom I bother (because I love them) more than four hours a week — Donna Passannante
and Tara Gilbride in particular—you are the best in the publishing world. Doesn’t it hurt when your
brains are so big?

This book couldn’t have been written without the New Rich who agreed to share their stories. Special
thanks to Douglas “Demon Doc” Price, Steve Sims, John “DJ Vanya” Dial, Stephen Key, Hans Keeling,
Mitchell Levy, Ed Murray, Jean-Marc Hachey, Tina Forsyth, Josh Steinitz, Julie Szekely, Mike Kerlin,
Jen Errico, Robin Malinosky-Rummell, Ritika Sundaresan, T. T. Venkatesh, Ron Ruiz, Doreen Orion,
Tracy Hintz, and the dozens who preferred to remain anonymous within corporate walls. Thanks also to
the elite team and great friends at MEC Labs, including, but not limited to, Dr. Flint McGlaughlin, Aaron
Rosenthal, Eric Stockton, Jeremiah Brookins, Jalali Hartman, and Bob Kemper.

Refining the content of this book from pulp to print has been torturous, especially for my
proofreaders! Deep bows and sincere thanks to Jason Burroughs, Chris Ashenden, Mike Norman, Albert
Pope, Jillian Manus, Jess Portner, Mike Maples, Juan Manuel “Micho” Cambeforte, my brainiac brother
Tom Ferriss, and the countless others who honed the end product. I owe particular gratitude to Carol
Kline—whose keen mind and awareness of self transformed this book—and Sherwood Forlee, a great
friend and relentless devil’s advocate.

Thanks to my brilliant interns, [lena George, Lindsay Mecca, Kate Perkins Youngman, and Laura
Hurlbut, for meeting deadlines and keeping me from imminent meltdown. I encourage all publishers to
hire you before their competition does!

To the authors who have guided and inspired me throughout this process, I am forever a fan and
indebted: John McPhee, Michael Gerber, Rolf Potts, Phil Town, Po Bronson, AJ Jacobs, Randy Komisar,
and Joy Bauer.

For helping to build schools around the world and for funding projects for more than 15,000 U.S.
public school students, I wish to thank—among countless others—the following readers and friends:
Matt Mullenweg, Gina Trapani, Joe Polish, David Bellis, John Morgan, Thomas Johnson, Dean Jackson,
Peter Weck and SimplyHired.com, Yanik Silver, Metroblogging, Michael Port, Jay Peters, Aaron Daniel
Bennett, Andrew Rosca, Birth & Beyond, Inc., Doula Services, Noreen Roman, Joseph Hunkins, Joe
Duck, Mario Milanovic, Chris Daigle, Jose Castro, Tina M. Pruitt Campbell, Dane Low, and all of you
who believe karmic capitalism is possible. It is.

To all of the readers and lifestyle designers who shared their experiences and helped create this
expanded edition—thank you! It wouldn’t have been possible without you, and I am humbled beyond
words by your generosity. I hope you never stop thinking big and doing the uncommon.

To Sifu Steve Goericke and Coach John Buxton, who taught me how to act in spite of fear and fight
like hell for what I believe, this book—and my life—is a product of your influence. Bless you both. The
world’s problems would be far fewer if young men had more mentors like the two of you.

Last but not least, this book is dedicated to my parents, Donald and Frances Ferriss, who have guided
me, encouraged me, loved me, and consoled me through it all. I love you more than words can express.

- About the Author

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014034
