Hyper-Communication 289

My in-person experience has much higher bandwidth than even
a DVD. It may even have infinite bandwidth. Physicists argue whether
space-time is quantized but, for now, we will look at what would be
needed to reproduce the experience faithfully on modern digital
recording equipment.

Digitization
When something is converted to digital form, it goes through a number
of steps. First, some way must be found to chop the thing into small parts
in space and time. Then each of these parts is sampled with a sensor to
give an electrical signal and, finally, this signal is measured and turned
into a number.

Old microphones used carbon granules. As the sound waves passed
through them, the granules were shaken and made better contact with
each other. Connecting a battery across the granules gave a varying
voltage. Modern microphones use a variety of technologies. The
preference of most recording artists today is the electret microphone.
A coil moves inside a magnet generating a varying voltage which is
translated into a voltage as before.

Next we use a fast running clock and measure the voltage on each
tick giving us a sequence of numbers. We have created a near perfect
record of the sound, and we can prove this by recreating the sound
through a loudspeaker. This is what happens every time you listen to
your iPod.

To digitize film, each frame must be split in space as well as time.
On each tick of the clock, a process scans left to right and top to bottom
to form a one-dimensional stream of numbers that records the image.
The system cuts the picture up into little elements called pixels, standing
for picture elements. Each small square has its average color measured
for red, green, and blue content coded as a number.

Digitization techniques have become the dominant way electronics
work in the home, and digitization circuits are now ubiquitous.

Reality

How big is reality? Setting aside for a moment the problem that it might

be infinite, we need to reproduce all the elements that go to make it up.
A normal DVD has an image of 720 by 576 pixels with 16 bits of

color depth and a frame rate of 25 frames per second. The eye, however,

is considerably better than this and a DVD does not fool it. HD video

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015979
