instances of disease; they treat patients
as less than the human persons they are.

Physicians, it would seem, are
subject to a particular form of the more
general psychological challenge of
paying attention to other minds. Like all
humans, physicians easily ignore the
mindfulness of others. This matters,
Epley reminds us, “because mindful
agents become moral agents worthy of
care and compassion.” As such, patients
who are seen as mindful “evoke empathy
and concern for well-being, whereas
agents without mindful experience can
be treated simply as mindless objects.”
There are obstacles to recognizing the
mindfulness of patients. Illness makes a
patient different, or deviant, from human
norms, and we tend to pay less attention
to the minds of those who are different
from ourselves. In addition,
“Considering other minds requires some
attentional effort. It does not come
automatically.” Physicians learn to go
through the technical motions of caring
for the sick until those motions become
‘automatic’—that is the mark of a skilled
and effective clinician. But paying
attention to the mindfulness of patients
requires a sustained investment of time
and energy that physicians are often
unwilling to make.

How could religious practices
help? As Luhrmann notes, most people
find it very difficult to pay attention to
God. To help in this difficult and
lifelong task, many religions have
developed disciplines of prayer and
other practices that call to mind what we
tend to forget—including the ideas that
motivate genuine human concern for
those who suffer. Christians, for
example, practice remembering that all
people are ultimately united as children
of the one creator God, that “the ground
is level at the foot of the cross”

144

Page

regardless of one’s social status, one’s
biological fitness or one’s reproductive
capacity. Epley notes that we are better
able to pay attention to what another is
thinking or feeling when we are
motivated to do so. Christianity seeks to
stimulate such motivation by
encouraging Christians to meditate on
the fact that Jesus comes to us in those
who are sick and otherwise suffer’.
Moreover, it reminds us that we are
never alone. As Katherine Tanner
details in her chapter, God is always
with us. This central theological claim,
when remembered in song, prayer,
liturgy, reading of Scriptures and other
rituals, provides a particular form of
what psychologists call “mindful
surveillance”—our actions become more
“prosocial” (even altruistic) when we are
aware of being observed by others. All
of these practices depend on and extend
the capacities of the social brain. They
are also, from the vantage of
Christianity, ways in which one may
come to receive grace, the unmerited
help of God.

Religious practices have
therefore at least the potential to
encourage and strengthen the human
capacity for attending to the
mindfulness, and therefore the
personhood, of those who are sick and
diminished. As Epley suggests, “Making
minds visible, and hence more like one’s
own, enables people to more readily
follow the most famous of all ethical
dictates—to treat others as you would
have others treat you.”

Conclusion

Science and religion are invisibly
and inextricably intertwined in the
practice of medicine. Science has
provided modern medicine with
extraordinary diagnostic and therapeutic

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021390
