Buy Tickets

In this live In Conversation event, Melinda will introduce us to the women she's met during
years of travel, humanitarian work and extensive research. She will share stories from her new
book The Moment of Lift! How Empowering Women Changes the World: stories that are
brutally honest, gut-wrenching, inspiring and triumphant. They show us how, time and time

again, empowered women rise up and bring their families and communities with them.

Melinda will also share her own personal journey to achieving equality in her marriage, finding
her voice and becoming an advocate for women and girls. She will explain how the women she
has met have called her to action. And at this critical moment, she will call us to action too —

urging us to drive progress in our homes, workplaces and communities.

This conversation will fill your heart with hope and the determination to empower yourself and

others. It will also ignite your sense of urgency, leaving you convinced that equality can’t wait.

WHAT THEY SAY

‘In her book, Melinda tells the stories of the inspiring people she’s met
through her work all over the world, digs into the data, and powerfully
ilustrates issues that need our attention — from child marriage to gender

inequity in the workplace.’ — President Barack Obama

‘Melinda Gates has spent many years working with women around the

world. This book is an urgent manifesto for an equal society where

women are valued and recognized in all spheres of life. Most of all, it is a call for unity, inclusion

and connection. We need this message more than ever.’ — Malala Yousafzai

‘The Moment of Lift is an urgent call to courage. It changed how | think about myself, my family,
my work, and what’s possible in the world. Melinda weaves together vulnerable, brave
storytelling and compelling data to make this one of those rare books that you carry in your
heart and mind long after the last page.’ — Brené Brown, Ph.D., author of New York Times #1

bestseller Dare to Lead
‘This book is a beautiful and concise mission statement on what we need to do to move society

forward- continue to empower women. At every level and in all places women are truly the

bedrock supporting their communities.’ — Trevor Noah

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_027001
