COWEN
COLLABORATIVE INSIGHTS

12

February 25, 2019

will be destroyed.) Seeds that are certified (sold by domestic and international
hemp seed distributors) contain </=0.3% THC or produce hemp with </= 0.3%
THC.

CBD is more concentrated in female flowers (3%-6%) compared to male
flowers making male seeds unwanted. Unfertilized female flowers have been
found to produce higher CBD levels than female flowers fertilized by male
plants making male seeds unwanted in a production field. We note that seed
mix (male and female) costs are significantly lower than feminized seed costs
(incremental work is needed to increase the supply of feminized seeds).

Conversations with industry participants indicate that clones (first grown in a

greenhouse and then transplanted to the field) are becoming more common as
they provide a cheaper path to all female flowers in the field. Retail clones can
cost $4-$7 each and can be produced for $3 each with access to a greenhouse.

Test soil for contaminants. We note soil that has been used for corn production
has been cited as supportive for maximizing hemp yields.

Water System Installation. A drip irrigation is most effective way to water
hemp as it allows roots to breathe and conserves the most water.

Pesticides: Currently, pesticides are illegal for industrial hemp cultivation
which makes plastic mulch an important step. So far, disease pests and insects
have not been found to significantly impact yields.

Fertilizer. Fertilizer requirements similar to wheat are considered adequate
with nitrogen the most critical.

Planting. Adequate soil moisture and temperature (>/=50°F), which influences
timing for planting, is recommended for successful germination. Industrial
hemp can be planted in late April in Kentucky and late June in Vermont.
Planting depth for seeds should be ~0.50 inches.

Female seedlings, started in a greenhouse approximately 6 weeks prior to
planting, or transplanted female clones (planted with root structure), can be
planted into black plastic outdoors to control weeds. 5 ft x 5 ft plant spacing
has been found to be ideal and results ina population of 1,742 plants per acre.

Harvest. Average time to harvest a 6 inch clone is 90-120 days, Flower buds
from outdoor plants are removed by hand or using a debudder machine after
using a chainsaw or lopper to cut the plant down. Flower bud harvest is labor
intensive and can take ~30 hours per acre. Flower buds in a UVM study were
dried at 80°F for 18-36 hours until dry enough for storage without molding.
Indoor storage requirements creates a production challenge. As with most
crops, variations in yield can result from variations in genetics (variety), soil,
weather, and other growing conditions.

Testing. State Departments of Agriculture conduct field and greenhouse
inspections for THC levels, which is the only way to separate hemp from illegal
cannabis. Crops that test >0.3% THC will be destroyed.

COWEN.COM

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024828
