how that got published?
PK: It was originally a guy from LIFE. He’d
interviewed me, and mentioned some of
the staffers had seen Rosemary's Baby,
where there’s an anagram moment with
Scrabble pieces, something to do with
witcheraft —
EP: “Steven Marcato”.
PK: Yeah. Staffers had discovered this joke
about the Vice President’s name, based
on that scene. They couldn’t use it in
LIFE, but it had to 0 somewhere. So, I
ran it in the four-page comic that Richard
Guindon and I did together.
EP: Both the LBJ piece and Rosemerica
comic clearly bend into surrealism. The
response of readers, delighted and infuri-
ated, had to be one of the best moments
of yout life.
PK: Many many people believed [the LBJ
piece], even for just a moment. It was
something I’d learned from Joseph Heller,
when I interviewed him (Realist #39). I
asked about one of the patients in Catch-
22, who is in a veteran’s hospital. The
patient was wrapped up like a mummy,
fed through IV's, excreting through tubes
— he was just a middleman for digestion.
I asked Heller, and he said, “Well you
know, it’s possible, but not probable.”
EP: “Possible but not probable” explains
these last fifteen months on Earth.
PK: Regarding the LBJ piece, there were
people who claimed to remember a pho-
tograph! (laughs)

People who said they believed the
article, if only for a moment, included
Daniel Ellsberg, who released The Pen-

2“Trump’s Presidency is Doomed,” The
Washington Post, January 16, 2017.

tagon Papers. He said the reason he be-
lieved it, was because he just so much
wanted it to be true.

EP: Speaking of Ellsberg, and now Trump,
how do you feel about leaking?

PK: Well, I leak several times a day.
(Shared laughter)

EP: It’s very good for you.

PK: That’s bladder control.

EP: It’s funny that the Russian sex black-
mail was Trump having a urine party with
a bunch of hookers.

PK: That was a fake. But it became a
perfect image for comedians worldwide.
EP: But it’s like the LBJ issue — maybe it
will stick. People also remember The Dis-
neyland Orgy from the magazine. And the
wonderful FUCK COMMUNISM poster.
PK: You know, I use a walker, but I go to
the gym three times a week, to use the
treadmill. I had my FUCK GOMMUNISM
t-shirt on, you know, the red white and
blue. As I was walking out, there was a
policeman who held the door open for
me. And he saw the t-shirt.

EP: Oh, god —

PK: He said, “Hey, that’s a great t-shirt!”
He took it literally!

EP: | know the poster was said to be the
perfect confluence of two banned terms.
PK: Kurt Vonnegut praised it for that.
EP: “Fuck” has kind of won, right? You
can say “Fuck” anything now, and it’s
fine. That is one experience I don’t have,
growing up when that word was so ver-
boten. I understand how saying “Fire” in
a crowded theater is illegal, but I don’t
have an understanding of a world where

1“Roseamerica’s Baby,” The Realist #93,
August 1972.

saying “Fuck” could get your arrested.
How did Lenny Bruce work around it?
PK: He had to use a euphemism. He’d
have to say “frig.”

The first time I met Lenny, he came to
New York, and he called — because The
Realist was his favorite magazine.

EP: That had to feel great.

PE: It did. Steve Allen was the first sub-
scriber. He would give subscription gifts
to several friends, and Lenny was one
of them.

Lenny then sent a lot of subscriptions
to his friends. That’s how it started, and
how it grew — word of mouth — which
is better than advertising, because it’s
free and you're getting it from someone
you know, an individual.

When I met Lenny for the first time,
I gave him an advance copy of an inter-
view with Dr Albert Ellis, a psychologist.
Lenny was reading and said “He used
the word [‘fuck’]!” I explained to him
that Ellis had a campaign that “fucking
was good” therefore, if you wanted to
say something unfriendly, you should
say “unfuck you”...

Lenny asked, “How does he get away
with this?” I told him, “The Supreme
Court said use of the word wasn’t obscene
in a magazine if it was a redeeming social
value, and no prurient interest.”

Lenny asked, “What’s that? Prurient?”
He went to his suitcase on his bed in the
hotel room. Inside was a huge unabridged
dictionary. At first, it said something like
“itching” — and Lenny asked, “Is this
something like a novelty store?”

EP: Where they sell the powder!
PK: Or the dribble glasses. But the second

Created in 1963 by Paul Krassner and John Francis Putnam, this poster was a staple of dorm rooms for decades. Kurt Vonnegut
called it “a miracle of compressed intelligence nearly as admirable for potent simplicity, in my opinion, as Einstein's e=mc?.”

Lh ft
COMMUNISM!

ADDITIONAL COPIES AVAILABLE FROM THE MOTHERS OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION, WASHINGTON, D.C.

Ww

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023642
