22 The Virgin Islands Daily News

ST. CROIX ST. JOHN

Gerry Yandel, Executive Editor
Ken E. Ryan, Production Director
Onneka Challenger, Circulation Director

he Virgin Islands

DAILY ®NEWS

A Pulitzer Prize-Winning Newspaper

Founded Aug. 1, 1930, by J. Antonio Jarvis and Ariel Melchior Sr.
Published by Daily News Publishing Co., Inc.
Archie Nahigian, President

EDITORIAL BOARD

What's the speed limit

ST. THOMAS TORTOLA

J. Lowe Davis, Editor At Large
Lisa Jamil, Advertising Director
Juanita Young, Controller

on Magens Bay Road?
Is it how fast you can run?

What do the new Magen Bay
signs mean?

Public Works installed four of
these signs on Magens Bay Road in
November in response to the speed-
ing problem.

According to the Merriam-Web-
ster dictionary the abbreviation of
miles per hour is “mph” and there
should be a number in front of mph
designating the speed. On these
signs, the number is omitted, so

Lori Emery

drivers have no idea what the speed
limit is.

St. Thomas is an international
destination, and we have contem-
porary street signs that use symbols
for walkers, joggers, bicycles etc. I
know we can do better in the signage
department on Magens Bay Road.

— Lori Emery, St. Thomas

See Your Views In Print

The Daily News is always interested in publishing local views on topics of
general interest, and we especially welcome commentary on issues affecting
the Virgin Islands and its people, culture, businesses and government.
Send Letters, Essays, Halos and Pitchforks, Cartoons
or other original material about local issues of general interest to

letters@dailynews.vi
The Daily News’ opinions are expressed only in its editorials.
The opinions expressed in columns, letters, cartoons and
guest editorials are those of the particular author or artist.

OPINIONS

Tuesday, December 13, 2016

Where will Trump venture
for his first state visit?

Barbara Streisand and Lena Dun-
ham may be some of the higher profile
Trumpfugees leaving the country and
heading to Justin Trudeau’s Canada.
What is less certain is if a President
Donald Trump will make Ottawa his
first foreign port of call — a long-
standing presidential and foreign policy
tradition.

Post-election, Trudeau quickly
called to congratulate PEOTUS Trump
on his victory and the Canadian tweet-
ed, “(W)e agreed to meet soon to keep
building the Canada-US relationship.”

Trump may want to use the high-
visibility first trip to do something
other than affirm tradition and reflect
the importance and strength of US.-
Canadian ties. He may want to make
a grand strategy statement, letting the
world know that he is going to shake-
up the global status quo.

Calls to Taiwan, support for the Phil-
ippines President Rodrigo Duterte and
meeting with Japan’s Shinzo Abe have
already shaken up the foreign policy
establishment's rules for protocol, as
well as approaches to human rights and
global power relations. All this well-
before Trump has even been sworn-in.

Once in office, Ronald Reagan be-
gan the tradition of new U.S. presidents
making Canada the first foreign presi-
dential visit. George W. Bush notably
broke from this tradition, making his
first stop Mexico, a country he knew
well. He also hoped his trip and Cinco
de Mayo parties on the White House
lawn would attract Latino voters to the
Republican Party.

Trump has already been to Mexico,
met with President Pena Nieto, got-
ten a great presidential photo-op and
made his talking points. It is unlikely
he will be heading south of the border
first.

Making a splash abroad will likely
require a large rally — similar or bigger
than candidate Barack Obama’s visit to
Berlin in the summer of 2008 — and
may be chosen based on the right mix
of pomp, circumstance, strategy and
significance.

If two big border nations are knocked

REMEMBER WHEN WE REVERED
AMERICANS WHo HAD THE
RIGHT STUFF?

Markos Kounalakis

out of the running for the primary re-
ception of America’s new head of state,
where might he go first?

There are any number of early sup-
porters in other countries who could be
rewarded and elevated by a presidential
visit. The scramble to send invitations
to Trump Tower has already begun.

UK. Prime Minister Theresa May
is considering an invitation on behalf
of Queen Elizabeth II. Trump’s friend-
ship with and preference for Brexit
leader Nigel Farage as Britain’s next
diplomatic envoy will require Trump to
balance Buckingham Palace pageantry,
the “‘special relationship,” Brexit forces
and a potentially restive urban populace
before deciding to touch down in Lon-
don Town.

Numerous foreign leaders supported
Trump’s candidacy early on, mostly
opposition politicians. A few, however,
are running countries. They include
Hungary’s Viktor Orban, North Ko-
rea’s Kim Jong Un, Zimbabwe’s Rob-
ert Mugabe and, of course, Russia’s
Vladimir Putin. Rewarding them with
an American inaugural visit would be
revolutionary and could set in motion

dramatic changes in how America’s
global relations, alliances and power
balancing is perceived and conducted.

Big, bold, groundbreaking unprec-
edented moves were the hallmark of
Trump’s campaign: Is there a reason
to believe he would take a different ap-
proach to governing? Trump’s brand of
politics is proudly unconventional —
from his brand management business
to his Fifth Avenue transition tower to
his tweet-centric campaign.

Where will he go? Japan, Russia,
China, Italy, Germany, France — may-
be even India, Australia or Argentina?
Tipping favor toward any of the G8
member countries other than Canada
for a “first visit” would create both
new foreign policy opportunities and
challenges.

To avoid granting any nation the
favor of a first foray, however, he may
decide never to leave the country at all,
requiring all foreign leaders visit him at
Trump Tower, Mar-a-Lago, the Trump
National Golf Club Bedminster ... or
maybe even the White House.

— Markos Kounalakis is a
senior fellow at Central European
University and visiting fellow at the
Hoover Institution. Contact him at
markos@stanford.edu

Employers should not impose
religious views on employees

In my opinion, Philadelphia Arch-
bishop Charles Chaput is wrong in
his view that religious liberty in the
United States is under attack (Phila-
delphia Inquirer and Philly.com, Dec.
8, 2016).

Religious institutions are free to
believe and preach whatever they
want. I think that what they are not
free to do is impose those beliefs on
their employees.

For example, a Catholic-affiliated

Richard Carroll

organization may believe that contra-
ception is immoral, but I don’t think
that organization should be allowed
to block its female employees, who
may or may not be Catholic, from
access to contraception through its
medical insurance plans.

I worked for a Catholic organiza-
tion (the Knights of Columbus) for

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014509

30 years. Its 600 employees — most
of whom were non-Catholic women
— had access to contraceptive cover-
age through the employer-provided
health plan.

Freedom of religion means free-
dom not to have your employer’s
religious views imposed on you.

— Richard Carroll, a part-time
St. Thomas resident, is the former
Associate General Counsel of the
Knights of Columbus
