6. Emphasize Strengths, Don’t Fix Weaknesses.

Most people are good at a handful of things and utterly miserable at most. I am great at product creation
and marketing but terrible at most of the things that follow.

My body is designed to lift heavy objects and throw them, and that’s it. I ignored this for a long time.
I tried swimming and looked like a drowning monkey. I tried basketball and looked like a caveman.
Then I became a fighter and took off.

It is far more lucrative and fun to leverage your strengths instead of attempting to fix all the chinks in
your armor. The choice is between multiplication of results using strengths or incremental improvement
fixing weaknesses that will, at best, become mediocre. Focus on better use of your best weapons instead
of constant repair.

7. Things in Excess Become Their Opposite.

It is possible to have too much of a good thing. In excess, most endeavors and possessions take on the
characteristics of their opposite. Thus:

Pacifists become militants.
Freedom fighters become tyrants.
Blessings become curses.

Help becomes hindrance. More becomes less +

Too much, too many, and too often of what you want becomes what you don’t want. This is true of
possessions and even time. Lifestyle Design is thus not interested in creating an excess of idle time,
which is poisonous, but the positive use of free time, defined simply as doing what you want as opposed
to what you feel obligated to do.

8. Money Alone Is Not the Solution.

There is much to be said for the power of money as currency (I’m a fan myself), but adding more of it
just isn’t the answer as often as we’d like to think. In part, it’s laziness. “If only I had more money” is
the easiest way to postpone the intense self-examination and decision-making necessary to create a life
of enjoyment—now and not later. By using money as the scapegoat and work as our all-consuming
routine, we are able to conveniently disallow ourselves the time to do otherwise: “John, I'd love to talk
about the gaping void I feel in my life, the hopelessness that hits me like a punch in the eye every time I
start my computer in the moming, but I have so much work to do! I’ve got at least three hours of
unimportant e-mail to reply to before calling the prospects who said ‘no’ yesterday. Gotta run!”

Busy yourself with the routine of the money wheel, pretend it’s the fix-all, and you artfully create a
constant distraction that prevents you from seeing just how pointless it is. Deep down, you know it’s all
an illusion, but with everyone participating in the same game of make-believe, it’s easy to forget.

The problem is more than money.

9. Relative Income Is More Important Than Absolute Income.

Among dietitians and nutritionists, there is some debate over the value of a calorie. Is a calorie a calorie,
much like a rose is a rose? Is fat loss as simple as expending more calories than you consume, or is the
source of those calories important? Based on work with top athletes, I know the answer to be the latter.

What about income? Is a dollar is a dollar is a dollar? The New Rich don’t think so.
Let’s look at this like a fifth-grade math problem. Two hardworking chaps are headed toward each

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013821
