and body language, a very primitive form of speaking, but what choice
did we have?

I did my best to get acquainted and as I had previously assumed after
lunch on the beach we were again ushered into another part of the island,
Jeffrey’s cabana. There was no need for words here, as the girls already
knew exactly what to do. Without saying anything they undressed me and
began to ravage my body with their hands, tongues, lips and fingers. I
was delirious, never having done anything like this before with so many
girls. It was sheer chaos; | don’t honestly know how men could fantasize
over this. Through the glimpses in between bodies crossing over me I
could see Jeffrey and Brunel watching us, sitting in a chair with their
hands around their penises, stroking themselves together “The best part is
they don’t even speak English so there’s never a need to have to keep
them amused” | could hear one of the men divulge and pretty sure it came
from Jeffrey laughing out Joud to Brunel. [ just closed my eyes and went
somewhere else in my mind until it was all over. That was that, life went
on and we all moved on to eat dinner together.

It couldn’t be more awkward as Jeffrey and Brunel were beside
themselves with their ego’s beaming, and the girls chatted like busy little
chipmunks with each other. Ghislane and Emmy on the other end of the
table were being amused at the entire racquet around the table and then
there was me. Sitting quietly and smiling in people’s direction when
needed, I was counting down the minutes until | could go lay down in my
giant comfortable bed, slipping away to the gentle noises the island
created and sink comfortably into a deep sleep with the assistance of my
Xanax. Scratching at the plate in front of me with my fork out of
boredom, I wasn’t even hungry. I had lost my appetite for food. Rather
sipping on the champagne I wanted to feel as far away from here as
possible. What seemed fike hours for everyone to finish their meals we
were finally all saying goodnight and goodbye to each other, as Brunel
was off early in the morning and taking the eight beauties with him.
“Thank God” I told myself, once was more than T could handle of that in
one day.

It didn’t take me long to get back into my own comfort zone. Heading
straight back to my cabana after dessert was served nearly tripping over
my own two feet as I tried to scuttle off in a hurry. As soon as I entered
my domain, I drew a breath and sighed a deep exhale outwards, finally
alone and at peace... for now at least. Although the sun had set hours ago
the high temperatures of the Caribbean were still an affliction, plaguing
my cabana I was welcomed by a rush of warm air as I opened the door. 1
hit the switch to the fan and stripped down for a shower. Preparing my
towel and toiletries | opened the back door to the outside shower and
placed them on the floor. Whether | was cleaning up in the midst of a hot

oF

C Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL, GIUFFREO04230

day or retiring for the evening, an outside shower was always splendid.
Under a thick dark cloak of the night sky only the moon and stars to shed
enough light for me to see my way around. I could feel the soft breeze
lick the droplets falling off of my bodies’ curves in the reflection of the
moonlight. It only encouraged me to stay longer under the warmth from
the spray of rushing water. I let the hot water run out before I was
sufficed enough to go back inside. Lounging around the bed in my
panties and a tank top I was still sweltering from the heat. Trying to tire
myself out, I did some reading and eventually fell asleep. | needed those
times to unwind after such an ordeal, letting the Xanax wash away all of
the pain I could then forgive the mistakes I had made, blaming myself for
staying around for this I had wished | was never born at all. The pills
would take all of that away for me. My heart was a tangled weave of
deception and pain, only reassured by the lies that were told to me and the
lies | would have to convince myself of.

Chapter 16

When we flew back into Palm Beach, Juan drove me back to my
apartment. Lonely for some companionship I decided to call an old
friend. | was longing to be important to someone and unfortunately with
such little time to have a social life of my own I was compelled to call T.J
again. His Mom answered the phone and sounded quite surprised to hear
my voice on the other end. She was always kind to me, I even used to
bring her back “Cola” cans from other countries a bizarre hobby she
loved collecting. She just didn’t know what I saw in her son, even saying
that to his face many times over. Not blind to his ways of cheating and
stealing, being a personal victim of it, she made it apparent that she did
not approve of T.J’s choice in lifestyle. It used to really hurt him how his
parents thought so badly of him, so he gave up trying to eam their love a
long time ago. As long as he didn’t steal from them anymore he was
allowed to live there. Instead of that being a lesson to him, he would just
try to be more clever in what he would steal, less obvious things. He
would steal the toaster and sell it for five dollars if he knew it would help
to get him his next high.

Nonetheless and at my expense I had a sweet spot for him. With
enough water under the bridge, I was able to forget about the troubles he
caused. His Mom told me she’d pass on the message when he got home,
but that could be days from now. The last time he had been home was
over a couple of weeks now. He only stopped by to get something to eat,
have a long sleep and to beg her for a few bucks, supposedly to help him
buy food. Then he was off again without a single word said, only leaving

98

11 Copyright Protected Material

GIUPFRE00423 1

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021193
