wow ony nm ® WN

NNN NNN BH BR eB bb be bt fe
“ne WN OL OI KRM FWN EO

241

(Discussion off the record.)
JHE WITNESS: What's Number 6 then? I'm
confused, there were two.
BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. Have you ever seen Exhibit Number 6
before?

A. Exhibit Number 6. I don't believe so. It
doesn't look familiar to me.

Q. No?

A. It does not look familiar to me.

Q. Did you bother at any time to review
discovery that was produced by Bradley Edwards and
Paul Cassell responding to requests for information
that supported the allegations of Virginia Roberts?

A. I'm not clear what you're asking.

Q. Iwant te know —

A. In which case? In which case are we
talking?

Q. This case. This case.

A. Right.

Q. Did you ever bother to review the
discovery produced in this case responding to
requests for all of the information that supported
their belief in the truthfulness of Virginia
Roberts' allegations against you?

wo On nM ® WN

NNNNNN PRP PP PP ee ee
Ue WN HOUMA AMH &® WN OO

243

exonerated by any flight logs that were innocent --
that were complete and accurate, of course.

Q. So you made the public statements
repeatedly that the flight logs would exonerate you
without having examined the flight logs to see
whether they were accurate or not; is that correct?

A. Weill, I knew -- I knew that --

Q. Did you say those things without having
examined the flight logs?

A. I said those things having looked at some
of the flight logs at some point in time. But!
knew for sure that the flight logs would exonerate
me because I knew I was never on Jeffrey Epstein's
plane with Virginia Roberts or any other young
underage girls. So, I knew that to an absolute
certainty. And I was prepared to say it. I'm
prepared to say it again under oath here.

And if your clients had simply called me
and told me they were planning to do this, we
wouldn't be here today because I could have shown
them in one day that it was impossible for me to
have had sex with their client on the island, in the
ranch, on the airplanes, in Palni Beach. And they
would have, if they were decent and ethical lawyers,
not filed that.

wo on nM ® WN

NNNNN NEP RPP PPB eB BP PR
ue WNP OW DAYH UM BWNRO

A. I don't know if T reviewed everything.

But I certainly, in preparation for this deposition,
reviewed some of the documents that were produced in
discovery. But I can't say I reviewed them all.

Q. Well, having placed such substantial
emphasis during the course of your public
appearances on the flight logs exonerating you, it
would certainly seem logical that one of the things
that you would want te review would be all of the
available -- all of the available flight logs,
right?

A. No.

MR. SCOTT: Objection, argumentative.

A. No.

BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. No?

A. No. Look, I knew I was never on a plane
with any underage females under any circumstances.
I knew that. I knew that as certainly as I'm
sitting here today. So, | knew absolutely that if
the manifests and the flight logs were accurate,
they would, of course, exonerate me because ] am
totally, completely, unequivocally innocent of any
of these charges.

So of course | knew that I would be

owv WwN HA WF WYN

244

And there are cases, legal ethics cases
that say that lawyers are obliged to make that phone
call. Lawyers are obliged to check if it's easy to
check. Lawyers are obliged to, particularly when
they're making extremely heinous charges against a
fellow lawyer, do very, very, detailed
investigations. And they didn't do that in this
case.

Q. I will represent to you that | have handed
you all of the available flight logs produced in the
discovery of this case. Could you show me, please,
which of these flight logs exonerates you?

A. The absence of evidence is evidence of
absence. None of the flight logs have me on an
airplane with Virginia Roberts. None of the flight
logs have me on an airplane during the relevant
period of time when Virginia Roberts claims that she
had sex with me in the presence of another woman.

So, the flight logs clearly exonerate me.
There's absolutely no doubt about that,

Q. Well, the flight logs, in fact, confirm
that you were in the same places at the same time as
Virginia Roberts, don't they?

A. No, they do not.

Q. Do you -- do you deny that they confirm

17 (Pages 241 to 244)

www.phippsreporting.com
(888) 811-3408

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010799
