CHARITY TILLEMANN DICK

Charity Tillemann Dick is an American-born soprano and
a recipient of two double lung transplants. Charity has

performed across the United States, Europe, and Asia in venues

as diverse as the Rose Theater at Lincoln Center in New York
City; The Kennedy Center in Washington, DC; Severance Hall
in Cleveland, Ohio; II Giardino Di Boboli in Florence, Italy;
the National Palace of the Arts in Budapest, Hungary; the Tel
Aviv Opera House in Israel; the American Embassy in Beijing,
China; the United Nations in New York; and National Statuary
Hall in the United States Capitol. She has collaborated and
performed with noted conductors and musicians including
Eva Marton, Bruno Rigacci, Joela Jones, Marvin Hamlisch,
Bono, Zoltan Kocis, Joan Dornemann, and former Secretary
of State Dr. Condoleezza Rice. Some of her operatic roles
have included Titania in A Mid Summer’s Night Dream, Gilda
in Rigoletto, Violetta in La Traviata, and Ophelia in Ophelia
Forever. Charity has also performed for numerous presidents,
prime ministers, members of Congress, and world dignitaries.
After receiving a diagnosis of Idiopathic
Pulmonary Hypertension in 2004, Charity served as the
national spokesperson for the Pulmonary Hypertension
Association, working to raise awareness, increase federal
research funding, expand stem cell research, and promote
preventative and alternative medicine. In September of 2009,
Charity received a bilateral lung transplant at the Cleveland
Clinic in Ohio. After complications from rejection, Charity
received a second bilateral lung transplant in January 2012.
Since receiving her first transplant, Charity has
shared her amazing story and vocal talents at numerous
conferences, musical performance, and events, including:
TEDMED 2010 in San Diego, CA; the 6th National Learning
Congress on Organ Donation in Dallas, TX; the 2010 Empathy
and Innovation Summit in Cleveland, OH; and the EG
Conference in Monterey, CA. Charity has been featured on
CNN with Dr. Sanjay Gupta, CBS This Morning, Glamour
magazine, ABCNews.com, TED.com, The Huffington Post,
The Wail Street Journal Health Blog, the Cleveland Plain Dealer,
the San Francisco Chronicle, and The Sunday Times (London).
Her performances have been broadcast around the world on
CNN, CBS, BBC, FOX, MSNBC, PBS, C-SPAN and NPR.
Charity received a Bachelor’s degree with high
honors from Regis University in Denver, CO, where she was
raised with her 10 brothers and sisters. She later studied
music at the Peabody Conservatory at Johns Hopkins
University and the Liszt Academy of Music in Budapest. She
currently resides in Washington, DC and New York City.

GEOFFREY WEST

Geoffrey West is Distinguished Professor and former
President of the Santa Fe Institute (SFI) and an Associate
Fellow of the Said Business School, Oxford University. Prior
to joining SFI in 2003, he was leader of high energy physics
at Los Alamos National Laboratory, where he remains

a Senior Fellow. He received his B.A. from Cambridge
University in 1961 and his Ph.D. in physics from Stanford
University in 1966. After spells at Cornell and Harvard
Universities, he returned to Stanford in 1970 to join the
faculty. He was President of SFI from 2005-2009.

West is a theoretical physicist whose primary interests
have been in fundamental questions in physics and biology,
ranging from the elementary particles, their interactions and
cosmological implications to the origins of universal scaling
laws and a unifying quantitative framework of biology. His
research in biology has included metabolic rate, growth, aging
and mortality, sleep, cancer, and ecosystem dynamics.

His recent work has focused on developing
an underlying quantitative theory for the structure and

dynamics of cities, companies and long-term sustainability,
including rates of growth and innovation, the accelerating
pace of life, and why companies die, yet cities survive.

He has given many colloquia, keynote addresses
and public lectures world-wide. Awards include the Mercer
Prize from the Ecological Society of America, the Weldon
Prize for Mathematical Biology, and the Glenn Award for
Aging research. He has been featured in many publications
world-wide including The New York Times, Nature, Science,
The Financial Times, Time, Newsweek and Scientific American
and has participated in television productions including
Nova, National Geographic and the BBC. His work was
selected as a breakthrough idea of 2007 by Harvard Business
Review and, in 2006, he was named to Time magazine’s
list of “100 Most Influential People in the World”.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017560
