The billionaire financier, who attended The Queen's birthday party in 2000, was sentenced to 18 months in prison in 2008,
having secured a plea bargain that prevented full criminal trials. He later settled more than a dozen multi-million dollar civil
lawsuits from his alleged victims out of court.

The previously undisclosed journal, however, “detailed the full scope and the extent of Epstein's involvement with underage
girls’, according to lawyers for several alleged victims.

Prosecutor of the Duke of York’s sex offender friend Jeffrey Epstein speaks of

It contained the names of girls that Epstein allegedly abused in “Michigan, California, West Palm Beach, New York, New
Mexico, and Paris”, according to court papers.

It also listed extensive contact details for Epstein’s house guests, who had “no connection whatsoever’ with alleged
offences, including Mr Clinton, the former US President, and Mr Trump, the famous businessman.

It could not be confirmed last night whether the book contained contact details for the Duke. One lawyer for Epstein’s
alleged victims said: “I would bet he is, because he is that good a friend”.

There is no suggestion that the Duke did anything wrong. However he has this week faced a string of questions about his
judgment due to his association with a convicted child sex offender.

Epstein kept 21 different phone numbers for Mr Clinton, including some for his assistant and also “Clinton’s personal
numbers’, the court papers state.

.9

Alfredo Rodriguez, a servant who “saw numerous underage girls coming into Epstein’s mansion for purported ‘massages’,
took the journal and did not mention it to investigators.

“Because of the importance of the information in the journal to the civil cases, Mr Rodriguez called it ‘The Holy Grail’,” the
court documents state.

He attempted to sell the book to lawyers for $50,000 (£31,000) in August 2009 - by which time Epstein had already been
sentenced and released from jail.

The lawyers contacted the FBI, who sent an undercover agent to buy the book from Rodriguez. He was then arrested and
charged with obstruction of justice.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013438
