Eurozone equities

Preference: neutral

Euro Stoxx (24 Oct): 247 (last publication: 247)
UBS View Euro Stoxx (6-month target): 249

¢ We keep our neutral stance on Eurozone equities. While the sovereign debt crisis remains a risk factor
(see slide 8), the conditional bond buying program by the ECB (OMT) and the introduction of the ESM have
significantly reduced downside risks.

¢ Near-term we might see volatility increasing as politicians wrangle about the steps needed to provide a
more lasting solution to the debt crisis (setup of a single banking regulator, solving the banking related
problems in Spain, etc. ). We think that attractive valuations sufficiently compensate for those risks.

¢ The weak economic environment with recessions in the southern countries continues to weigh on
corporate earnings. Consensus expectations (bottom up) of about 10% to 15% earnings growth in 2013 is
too high, in our view. In contrast, we forecast just about 3-5% earnings growth next year.

4 Positive scenario Euro Stoxx (6-month target): 320
¢ Global economic growth reaccelerates and Eurozone growth shows clear signs of bottoming out,
enabling mid-single-digit earnings growth over the next six months. The trailing P/E ratio could re-rate to
about 14.5x from its current reading of about 11.7x.

Negative scenario Euro Stoxx (6-month target): 200
¢ The debt crisis leads to renewed pressure on Spain and Italy. However, downside risks are expected to be
less severe now, after the ECB has put its new bond-buying program in place.

¢ Earnings could fall about 5% to 10% from current levels over the coming six months, and the trailing P/E
ratio could drop to a level around 10x over a six-month period.

Note: Scenarios refer to global economic scenarios (see slide 7)

What we're watching Why it matters
Growth indicators Economic growth indicators provide information on the development of a
potential Eurozone recession. Key dates: 2 Nov, final PMI manufacturing,
EMU; 6 Nov, final PMI services EMU; 22 Nov, flash PMI manufacturing,
EMU, France and Germany; 23 Nov, Ifo business sentiment index,
Germany

Policy action Decisions by European politicians and the ECB affect the course of the debt crisis.

Key dates: 8 Nov, ECB meeting

2 UBS

Recommendations

Tactical (6 months)

e We continue to recommend defensive
sectors like Consumer Staples and
Healthcare. We also like the Energy
sector.

e We are negative on Industrials and
Consumer Discretionary as industry
sentiment remains subdued.

e We remain cautious on Financials -
especially Banks and diversified
Financials. The need for recapitalization
remains a major concern.

Strategic (1 to 2 years)

e We have a preference for stocks paying
high-quality dividends.

e We like companies with high exposure
to rapidly growing emerging markets.

Our sector stance in the Eurozone
Sectors Eurozone
Consumer Discretionary
Consumer Staples
Energy
Financials
Healthcare
ndustrials
7

aterials
Telecom
Utilities

Vielvi Viel ule; ulale

Source: UBS

Note: Past performance is not an indication of future returns.

For further information please contact ClO's asset class specialist Markus Irngartinger, markus.irngartinger@ubs.com 's

Please see important disclaimer and disclosures at the end of the document.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025262
