4.2.12
WC: 191694

By far the greatest legal blunder of the 20 Century was committed by President Clinton’s
lawyer in the Paula Jones case, Robert Bennett. Bennett allowed his client to be
questioned under oath in a deposition about the details of his sex life and to deny that he
had sexual relations with Monica Lewinsky. This sworn denial became the basis for an
impeachment investigation and opened the way for the President to have to testify in front
of a grand jury. The Paula Jones case should have been settled immediately after the
President’s reelection in 1996. If Paula Jones’ lawyers refused to settle the case, Bennett
could have advised the President simply to default — that is to pay the money and refuse to

contest the charges. Bennett never even told Clinton about this option.

The second greatest blunder, believe it or not, was also committed by Bennett. After
walking his client into the perjury trap, Bennett himself helped to spring it. Not content to
let the President answer the opposing lawyers’ questions, Bennett did the unthinkable: he
asked the President to affirm, under oath, the truth of Monica Lewinsky’s affidavit
without having asked Lewinsky what she meant when she said she had not engaged in
sexual relations with Clinton. Then, Bennett mischaracterized the affidavit by saying that
the affidavit indicated that “there is absolutely no sex of any kind in any manner, shape or
form.” Finally, in a “cover your ass” letter to the court, Bennett implicitly blamed his client
for misleading the court, instead of forthrightly acknowledging his own failure to find out
what Lewinsky meant by sexual relations. These blunders give Bennett almost unique
bragging rights as the only lawyer in American history who has helped his client get
impeached.

At the very beginning of the Lewinsky matter, I had received a call from someone close to the
White House giving me the phone number where Monica was staying and urging me to call her. I

280

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017367
