Thursday, September 12, 2013
Page 8

refused to answer and the reasonable inference that a reasonable finder of fact would
draw:

e Question not answered: “Specifically what are the allegations against you
which you contend Mr. Edwards ginned up?” Reasonable inference: No
allegations against Epstein were ginned up.

e Question not answered: “Well, which of Mr. Edwards’ cases do you contend
were fabricated?” Reasonable inference: No cases filed by Edwards against
Epstein were fabricated.

e Question not answered: “Did sexual assaults ever take place on a private
airplane on which you were a passenger?” Reasonable inference: Epstein was
on a private airplane while sexual assaults were taking place.

e Question not answered: “How many minors have you procured for
prostitution?” Reasonable inference: Epstein has procured multiple minors for
prostitution.

e Question not answered: “Is there anything in L.M.’s Complaint that was filed
against you in September of 2008 which you contend to be false?” Reasonable
inference: Nothing in L.M.’s complaint filed in September of 2008 was false —
i.e., as alleged in L.M.’s complaint, Epstein repeatedly sexually assaulted her
while she was a minor and she was entitled to substantial compensatory and
punitive damages as a result.

e Question not answered: “I would like to know whether you ever had any
physical contact with the person referred to as Jane Doe in that [federal]
complaint?” Reasonable inference: Epstein had physical contact with minor
Jane Doe as alleged in her federal complaint.

e Question not answered: “Did you ever have any physical contact with E.W.?”
Reasonable inference: Epstein had physical contact with minor E.W. as
alleged in her complaint.

e Question not answered: “What is the actual value that you contend the claim
of E.W. against you has?” Reasonable inference: E.W.’s claim against
Epstein had substantial actual value.

Given all of the fatal flaws that infected Epstein’s claims against Edwards from the
outset and the overwhelming evidence that the motivation behind the filing of those
claims was exclusively extortion and malice, Epstein’s only hope of avoiding the full

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029322
