LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (¢KUE LLC”)
through conversion of its preferred limited partner units,
including accrued dividends at the option of KUE LLC, into
Common LP Units} is U.S. $280.0 million. Subscriptions
received will be promptly refunded if 280,000 Common LP
Units are not issued for $1,000 per unit {in cash or preferred
limited partner units) before the end of the Offering Period.
Subscriptions paid in any closing will not otherwise be
returned regardless of the size or occurrence of any
subsequent closing.

Investors admitted during the Offering Period after the first
closing of this offering and after September 30, 2006 will pay
an additional amount accruing at a rate of 0.67% per month
calculated from the first closing date of the offering (pro-
rated for partial periods) for each Common LP Unit
purchased, which will be distributed promptly to the holders
of Common LP Units outstanding prior to such admission in
proportion to the number of Common LP Units held by such
holders.

Use of Proceeds: The proceeds of the offering described herein will be used:
(i) to expand operations, including through — strategic
acquisitions in the U.S. and internationally, (i) to develop
new products and services, (iii) to repay, in whole or in part,
$150 million of existing debt plus accrued interest (including
through the application of a portion of the proceeds of the
initial closing of the offering}, (iv) an estimated $50 million in
fees and expenses (including amounts payable from July 1,
2006 under a Fixed Overhead Payment Agreement (the
“Fixed Overhead Payment Agreement’)), {v) in the discretion
of KUE LLC, payment at the initial closing of the offering of
approximately $7.0 million of accrued preferred return on the
preferred limited partner units of KUE being converted to
Common LP Units if such accrued preferred return is not
converted to Common LP Units and (vi) for other corporate
purposes.

Capital Structure: Assuming that 1,000,000 Units are sold to Investors by
March 31, 2007, and that the accrued dividends on the
preferred limited partner units are paid in cash,
approximately 2,530,000 Units will be outstanding. The
investors will own approximately 40% of KUE in the form of
Common LP Units (excluding profits participation limited
partner units of KUE, “Profits Participation LP Units) and
approximately 40% of the General Partner in the form of
Class A Shares.

The General Pariner will be the sole general partner of KUE
and will hold approximately 1,000 General Partner Units
(“GP Units) in KUE, representing approximately 0.04%
ownership in KUE.

The economic interest in KUE represented by the Common

28

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024461
