VIRTUAL LAW

I used to work at a large Silicon Valley law firm, but one day I woke up and decided that I wanted to
travel for a year and learn a foreign language. Six weeks later I was living in Cali, Colombia—I’d never
visited Cali before and hardly spoke a word of Spanish, but that’s what made it exciting to me. Well,
almost two years later, I still spend 95%-+ of my time living and working from Cali, Colombia (I recently
bought a gorgeous apartment here that I could never afford if I lived in California). I also have a full-
time maid/cook (well, five hours per day, five days per week), which costs me less than US $40 per
week!

I started my own virtual law practice and then joined forces with my old boss. My U.S. number rings
through to me wherever I am in the world (originally I’m from New Zealand so I travel back there a lot,
too), and all my U.S. mail is delivered to Market Street, San Francisco, and scanned so I can view it
online. If I need to mail letters, I have another service which prints the letter and sends it within the US.
so there are no international shipping delays.

Definitely use www.earthclassmail.com for mail receipt/scanning. They have different packages but
it’s around $20-$30/month. You can also choose one or more P.O. boxes or physical addresses. My
Market Street address is actually an earthclassmail address.

For printing small letters and mailing within the U.S. I use www.postalmethods.com. It’s a little
clunky at first but it’s fine when you get used to it. It’s very cheap since you only pay when you send (a
four-page letter works out to just over $1 including the postage).

Come visit me sometime. Colombia is nothing like what you hear about—I feel a lot safer walking
around late at night here than a lot of places in San Francisco. But don’t tell anyone, those of us living
here want to keep it a secret!

—GERRY M.

TAKING FLIGHT WITH ORNITHREADS

Tim—

My mentor gave me your book this past July and it had a tremendous impact on my life, its arrival
could not have had better timing. About the time I read it, I was a few weeks away from competing in
my first Olympic distance triathlon. I had trained for five months, felt and looked strong, but even more
important the discipline and working toward a physical goal resulted in a creativity I hadn’t felt in years.
I posted a competitive time in the event and felt so optimistic about my abilities that I signed up for a
half ironman competition.

Riding that high and following the principles of your book, I thought of dozens of ideas for
products/businesses and am on the verge of launching the first of those ideas. It is a line of apparel called
OrniThreads which will provide modern, scientific designs of birds to Gen-X and Gen-Y birders.

The reasons for focusing on this demographic are twofold:

1. For my “day job,’ I work at [company name]. I have learned a lot about their
audience/membership, e.g., like the fact that there are 70 million Americans who actively bird (a
staggering statistic from the U.S. Fish & Wildlife svc). Birders are a passionate lot and their
interest only seems to grow over time—it never dies! They also tend to skew from the middle to
upper class and are educated.

2. I took an ornithology class this summer at Columbia University (where I am enrolled ina
conservation biology program) and fell in love with the illustrations in my textbooks and wanted to
surround myself with these images.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014021
