200 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

Central Intelligence Agency, the Treasury Department, the Atomic
Energy Commission, and the FBI. With a multibillion-dollar “black
budget” hidden from public scrutiny, the NSA’s technology director-
ate invested in state-of-the-art equipment, including supercomputers
that could break almost any cipher, antennas mounted on geosyn-
chronous satellites that vacuumed in billions of foreign telephone
calls, and other exotic capabilities. It also devised stealthy means of
breaking into channels that its adversaries believed were secure. This
enterprise required not only an army of technical specialists capable
of remotely intercepting even the faintest traces of electromagnetic
signals, hacking into computers, and eavesdropping on distant con-
versations but also special units called “tailored access operations,”
to plant listening devices in embassies and diplomatic pouches. The
NSA also organized elaborate expeditions to give access to or even
penetrate physical cables in enemy territory. In 1971, for example,
the NSA sent a specially equipped submarine into Russia’s Sea of
Okhotsk in Asia to tap through Arctic ice. The target was a Russian
cable four hundred feet below the surface that connected the Rus-
© sian naval headquarters in Vladivostok with a missile testing range. ©

In 1980, President Ronald Reagan gave the NSA a clear mandate
to expand its interception of foreign communications. In Executive
Order 12333, he told the NSA that “all means, consistent with appli-
cable Federal law and this [Executive] order, and with full consider-
ation of the rights of United States persons, shall be used to obtain
reliable intelligence information to protect the United States and its
interests.” It did not restrict any foreign country, either an adversary
or an ally, from its surveillance.

The NSA’s target soon became nothing short of the entire elec-
tromagnetic spectrum. “We are approaching a time when we will
be able to survey almost any point on the earth’s surface with some
sensor,” Admiral Stansfield Turner, the former director of central
intelligence, wrote in 1985. “We should soon be able to keep track
of most of the activities on the surface of the earth.” Bobby Ray
Inman, a former director of the NSA and deputy director of the CIA,
argued that the “vastness of the [American] intelligence ‘take’ from
the Soviet Union, and the pattern of continuity going back years,

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.indd 200 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019688
