misbehavior” that defies simple analysis. You can’t predict where you might be
attacked by merely looking at the possible holes in each piece. Rather, it’s the whole
system that breeds risks. It acts in ways that the designer could not have predicted
in advance. “Clearly the system itself is misbehaving,” the researcher Jeffrey Mogul
writes of his study of various cases where networks are cracked in this fashion.
“However, none of the components have failed per-se.”!45

The complexity of the systems themselves has been, not surprisingly, mimicked in
the design of hacking attacks. What was once done by a single Warez Dude is now
handled with division of labor, technical specialization and intensive pre-attack
research. Every innovation in “righteous malware” is quickly copied and used in
dangerous attack tools. The clever modular design of Stuxnet, for instance, was
studied by criminals and was found years later still echoing in weapons aimed at
banks, credit card companies and health insurance firms. “We are not experts in
military history, doctrine, or philosophy,” cybersecurity researchers Stephen Cobb
and Andrew Lee have written, “so we are unaware of the correct word for the
following category of weapons: the ones you deliver to your enemies in re-usable
form.” Cyberattack systems can be dangerous not least because they boomerang.
They are delivered intact, primed for re-use to enemies who may choose to bounce
them back at your banks, hospitals and electrical grids. “Righteous malware is
unique,” Cobb and Lee conclude. “You are giving away your weapons, tactics and
designs simply by using them.” 146

It’s not only American services hunting and using such backdoor keys and battering
rams, of course; not only the NSA that sees its viruses retooled and reused.
Computer security researchers describe opening up the laptops of unwary business
travelers and finding the machines blasted inside by malware and other technical
cancers, carefully planted by a half-dozen intelligence agencies and criminal
organizations. It’s like discovering a closet full of spies in your house, each being
careful not to step on the other’s toes as they watch and listen to your life. Why is my
computer so slow, a government official in a Eurasian capital might ask. It is because
it has been simultaneously pwned by Americans, Russians, Israelis, Chinese, and
maybe a local Mafioso or two - and their code is not running smoothly.

A couple of years ago I had a naive moment when | thought, perhaps, it would be
possible and in everyone’s interest to go back to those simpler, innocent Hacktic
days, when information about vulnerabilities was widely shared and easily
discussed - and holes were quickly patched as a result. | was thinking about the
problem of cybertension between the US and China and suggested applying an

145 “However”: Jeffrey C. Mogul, “Emergent (Mis)behavior vs. Complex Software
Systems”, HP Labs Research Papers, 2006, HPL-2006-2

146 “We are not experts”: Stephen Cobb and Andrew Lee, “Malware is Called
Malicious for a Reason: The Risks of Weaponizing Code” in P. Brangetto, M.
Maybaum, J. Stinissen eds., 6 Annual Conference on Cyber Conflict (NATO
Publications, 2014) 71-82

104

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018336
