12 JAM v. INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORP.

BREYER, J., dissenting

A

The “commercial activity” exception to the sovereign
immunity of foreign nations is broad. We have said that a
foreign state engages in “commercial activity” when it
exercises “‘powers that can also be exercised by private
citizens.” Republic of Argentina, 504 U.S., at 614. Thus,
“a contract to buy army boots or even bullets is a ‘commer-
cial’ activity,” even if the government enters into the
contract to “fulfil[l] uniquely sovereign objectives.” IJbid.;
see also H. R. Rep. No. 94-1487, p. 16 976) [A] transac-
tion to obtain goods or services from private parties would
not lose its otherwise commercial character because it was
entered into in connection with an [Agency for Interna-
tional Development] program’).

As a result of the majority’s interpretation, many of the
international organizations to which the United States
belongs will discover that they are now exposed to civil
lawsuits based on their (U. S.-law-defined) commercial
activity. And because “commercial activity” may well have
a broad definition, today’s holding will at the very least
create uncertainty for organizations involved in finance,
such as the World Bank, the Inter-American Development
Bank, and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency.
The core functions of these organizations are at least
arguably “commercial” in nature; the organizations exist
to promote international development by investing in
foreign companies and projects across the world. See Brief
for International Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment et al. as Amici Curiae 1—4; Brief for Member Coun-
tries and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
as Amici Curiae 13-15. The World Bank, for example,
encourages development either by guaranteeing private
loans or by providing financing from its own funds if pri-
vate capital is not available. See Articles of Agreement of
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment, Art. I, Dec. 27, 1945, 60 Stat. 1440, T. 1. A. S. No.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028570
