length. He liked and needed his office wives, and he trusted them with his most important
personal issues. Women, according to Trump, were simply more loyal and trustworthy
than men. Men might be more forceful and competent, but they were also more likely to
have their own agendas. Women, by their nature, or Trump’s version of their nature, were
more likely to focus their purpose on a man. A man like Trump.

It wasn’t happenstance or just casting balance that his Apprentice sidekick was a
woman, nor that his daughter Ivanka had become one of his closest confidants. He felt
women understood him. Or, the kind of women he liked—positive-outlook, can-do, loyal
women, who also looked good—understood him. Everybody who successfully worked for
him understood that there was always a subtext of his needs and personal tics that had to
be scrupulously attended to; in this, he was not all that different from other highly
successful figures, just more so. It would be hard to imagine someone who expected a
greater awareness of and more catering to his peculiar whims, rhythms, prejudices, and
often inchoate desires. He needed special—extra special—handling. Women, he explained
to one friend with something like self-awareness, generally got this more precisely than
men. In particular, women who self-selected themselves as tolerant of or oblivious to or
amused by or steeled against his casual misogyny and constant sexual subtext—which was
somehow, incongruously and often jarringly, matched with paternal regard—got this.

OOK Ok

Kellyanne Conway first met Donald Trump at a meeting of the condo board for the Trump
International Hotel, which was directly across the street from the UN and was where, in
the early 2000s, she lived with her husband and children. Conway’s husband, George, a
graduate of Harvard College and Yale Law School, was a partner at the premier corporate
mergers and acquisitions firm Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz. (Though Wachtell was a
Democratic-leaning firm, George had played a behind-the-scenes role on the team that
represented Paula Jones in her pursuit of Bill Clinton.) In its professional and domestic
balance, the Conway family was organized around George’s career. Kellyanne’s career
was a sidelight.

Kellyanne, who in the Trump campaign would use her working-class biography to
good effect, grew up in central New Jersey, the daughter of a trucker, raised by a single
mother (and, always in her narrative, her grandmother and two unmarried aunts). She went
to George Washington law school and afterward interned for Reagan’s pollster, Richard
Wirthlin. Then she became the assistant to Frank Luntz, a curious figure in the Republican
Party, known as much for his television deals and toupee as for his polling acumen.
Conway herself began to make appearances on cable TV while working for Luntz.

One virtue of the research and polling business she started in 1995 was that it could
adapt to her husband’s career. But she never much rose above a midrank presence in
Republican political circles, nor did she become more than the also-ran behind Ann
Coulter and Laura Ingraham on cable televiston—which is where Trump first saw her and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020034
