The answer to the many questions that still swirl around Epstein and his high-
placed friends are the subject of roughly a half-dozen lawsuits that are still
pending in both Palm Beach County and New York. Some of the nation’s top
attorneys have represented Epstein and some of his victims.

But like many of the past lawsuits spawned by Epstein’s behavior, most of the
remaining ones are expected to be settled. And even public court records don't
tell the full story — because many documents have been sealed or are heavily
redacted.

For example, a defamation lawsuit against one of Epstein’s close friends was
scheduled to go to trial in U.S. District Court in New York this coming Monday.
But both sides agreed to a delay last week, often a signal that a settlement
could be in the works.

The suit was filed by Virginia Roberts Giuffre against British-born socialite and
longtime Epstein friend Ghislaine Maxwell. In a 2009 lawsuit that Epstein
settled for an undisclosed amount, Giuffre claimed she was 15 when Maxwell
recruited her from her $9-an-hour job in the locker room at Mar-a-Lago, where
her father had a job as a maintenance worker. Giuffre claims in court records
that Maxwell introduced her to Epstein and that Epstein turned her into his
international sex slave.

Maxwell wasn’t sued as part of the lawsuit Giuffre filed against Epstein. But, in
court papers filed by Giuffre, Maxwell was accused of grooming Giuffre to be
Epstein’s sexual toy.

Maxwell ignored the allegations until Giuffre raised them again in December
2014 and Maxwell began publicly disputing Giuffe’s claims. Famed attorney
David Boies then filed a defamation lawsuit on Giuffre’s behalf, claiming
Maxwell “undertook a concerted and malicious campaign to discredit Giuffre.”
In media interviews, Maxwell called Giuffre’s claims “obvious lies,” Boies wrote.

The trial promised to provide scurrilous details about Giuffre’s widely publicized
contention in court records that Epstein not only used her but loaned her to his
rich and powerful friends, including such notables as Prince Andrew and
former President Bill Clinton. Similar claims against nationally-known attorney
Alan Dershowitz, who represents Epstein, were withdrawn when the Harvard
law professor and Giuffre’s attorneys reached a confidential settlement in
dueling defamation lawsuits they filed against each other over the allegations.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022992
