5/29/2019 Opinion | Trump Hands China an Easy Win in the Trade War - The New York Times

Days after the president’s tweets, China listed three “red lines,” positions the United States had
taken in the trade talks that were unacceptable: First, that it would keep tariffs in place for a
period after the proposed trade agreement was signed. Second, that it could impose punitive
tariffs if it judged China to be in violation of the agreement, and that China would be forbidden
from retaliating with its own tariffs. Third, the ever-inflating expectations of the terms under
which Beijing would buy American goods under a proposed bilateral purchasing agreement.

These “red lines” were new. Before that, China’s negotiating team had a fully flexible remit from
the leadership. But not anymore. Now that these three lines are in the public domain, there is no
way Chinese leaders can yield on them. The leaks of large parts of the negotiating text to the
American news media has added a new level of toxicity, making it virtually impossible to return
to the existing text as a basis of negotiations. Together with recent moves against the Chinese
telecom company Huawei presumably intended to pressure Beijing further, the possibility of
negotiating a revised agreement that is more accommodating to American interests is now very
slim.

Instead, what I have seen in Beijing over the last few weeks is a country moving in exactly the
opposite direction.

Related
More on the trade war.

Opinion | Michelle Cottle

Donald Trump’s Great Patriotic Wars May 26, 2019

Economic analysts, meanwhile, have been calculating the impact of a full-blown trade war,
estimating a loss of about 1.2 percentage points to Chinese G.D.P. growth. This figure is now
portrayed in the Chinese media as entirely manageable given China’s capacity to use fiscal and
monetary policy stimulus to support domestic demand and keep growth above 6 percent.

Even if a trade deal with the United States is still possible, some in the Chinese leadership are
now starting to ask, why bother? They argue that in technology, investment, foreign policy,
national security and human rights, the Trump administration has made it clear that it has
embarked on a more adversarial position toward China. So why should Beijing expend any more
political capital on a trade deal? Perhaps it’s better, in China’s view, to cut its losses now and get
ready for the next Cold War.

https:/Avww.nytimes.com/2019/05/29/opinion/trump-china-trade-war.html 2/3

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_033366
