In fact, Ryan had tried to act like McCormick or O’Neill, offering absolute assurances
of his hold on the legislation. It was, he told the president during his several daily calls, a
“done deal.” Trump’s trust in Ryan rose still higher, and it seemed to become in his own
mind proof that he had achieved a kind of mastery over the Hill. If the president had been
worried, he was worried no more. Done deal. The White House, having had to sweat
hardly at all, was about to get a big victory, bragged Kushner, embracing the expected win
over his dislike of the bill.

The sudden concern that the outcome might be otherwise began in early March. Katie
Walsh, who Kushner now described as “demanding and petulant,” began to sound the
alarm. But her efforts to personally involve the president in vote collecting were blocked
by Kushner in a set of increasingly tense face-offs. The unraveling had begun.

7 OK Ok

Trump still dismissively called it “the Russian thing—a whole lot of nothing.” But on
March 20, FBI director James Comey appeared before the House Intelligence Committee
and tied the story up in a neat package:

I have been authorized by the Department of Justice to confirm that the FBI, as part
of our counterintelligence mission, is investigating the Russian government’s efforts
to interfere in the 2016 presidential election, and that includes investigating the
nature of any links between individuals associated with the Trump campaign and
the Russian government and whether there was any coordination between the
campaign and Russia’s efforts. As with any counter intelligence investigation, this
will also include an assessment of whether any crimes were committed. Because it
is an open, ongoing investigation and is classified I cannot say more about what we
are doing and whose conduct we are examining.

He had, however, said quite enough. Comey converted rumor, leaks, theory, innuendo,
and pundit hot air—and until this moment that was all there was, at best the hope of a
scandal—into a formal pursuit of the White House. Efforts to pooh-pooh the narrative—
the fake news label, the president’s germaphobe defense against the golden shower
accusations, the haughty dismissal of minor associates and hopeless hangers-on, the
plaintive, if real, insistence that no crime had even been alleged, and the president’s charge
that he was the victim of an Obama wiretap—had failed. Comey himself dismissed the
wiretap allegation. By the evening of Comey’s appearance, it was evident to everyone that
the Russia plot line, far from petering out, had a mighty and bloody life to come.

Kushner, ever mindful of his father’s collision with the Justice Department, was
especially agitated by Comey’s increasing focus on the White House. Doing something
about Comey became a Kushner theme. What can we do about him? was a constant
question. And it was one he kept raising with the president.

Yet this was also—as Bannon, without too much internal success, tried to explain—a

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020009
