Case 1:19-cv-03377 Document1 Filed 04/16/19 Page 11 of 28

financier told The Post yesterday. “‘It’s the difference between a murderer and a person who
steals a bagel,’ said Epstein.” February 25, 2011, New York Post “Billionaire Jeffrey Epstein:
I’m a Sex Offender Not A Predator’.

D. The Criminal Victims’ Rights Act Proceeding

41. Rather than confer with the victims about the NPA, the U.S. Attorney’s Office
and Epstein, who was represented by Dershowitz at that time, agreed to a “confidentiality”
provision in the Agreement barring its disclosure to anyone—including Epstein’s victims. As a
consequence, the victims were not told about the NPA.

42. On July 7, 2008, a young woman identified as Jane Doe No. 1, one of Jeffrey
Epstein’s victims (other than Roberts), filed a petition to enforce her rights under the Crime
Victims’ Rights Act (“CVRA”), 18 U.S.C. 9 3771, alleging that the Government failed to
provide her the rights promised in the CVRA with regard to the plea arrangement with Epstein.

43. On February 21, 2019, the Court found that the victims’ rights had been violated
and granted summary judgment in favor of the victims finding: “It was a material omission for
the Government to suggest to the victims that they have patience relative to an investigation
about which it had already bound itself not to prosecute.” Order at 31. In its Order the Court
acknowledged that: “Jeffrey Epstein sexually abused more than 30 minor girls”. The Court also
found: “Among other provisions, the NPA expanded immunity to any ‘potential coconspirator’
of Epstein’s: ‘In consideration of Epstein’s agreement to plead guilty and to provide
compensation in the manner described above, if Epstein successfully fulfills all of the terms and
conditions of this agreement, the United States also agrees that it will not institute any criminal
charges against any potential co-conspirators of Epstein, including but not limited to Sarah

Kellen, Adriana Ross, Lesley Groff or Nadia Marcinkova... From the time the FBI began

11

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017945
