Even if Epstein’s attorneys hadn’t opened the door, Scarola said the information
would have likely come out. He says the information will help him undermine
Epstein’s claims that Edwards “ginned up” the allegations to help his former law
partner, imprisoned and disbarred Fort Lauderdale lawyer Scott Rothstein,
perpetuate a $1.2 billion Ponzi scheme.

The revelations of the settlements came as part of an ongoing lawsuit that started as
a dispute between Epstein and Rothstein, both billionaires.

A year after Epstein in 2008 pleaded guilty to solicitation of prostitution and
procuring a minor for prostitution, he sued Rothstein and Edwards, claiming they
trumped up the allegations of sexual molestation to perpetuate the Ponzi scheme.

Rothstein was sentenced to 50 years in prison in 2010 after admitting he had built
his wildly successful law firm by forging the names of federal judges and others to
persuade investors he had negotiated settlements in lawsuits against high-profile
people. Investors were told they could get a cut of the cash.

One of the high-profile people Rothstein used to lure investors was Epstein,
according to a lawsuit West Palm Beach attorney Robert Critton filed on Epstein’s
behalf. According to the lawsuit, Rothstein told investors Epstein, a money
manager, had agreed to settle the lawsuits with the teens for $200 million — a claim
Critton described as “a complete fabrication.”

After Epstein dropped the lawsuit in 2012, Edwards turned the tables on him.
Edwards accused Epstein of filing the lawsuit maliciously to punish him for
representing the young women. Although Edwards was a partner in Rothstein’s now
defunct firm, Scarola claims Epstein had no evidence Edwards was involved in the
Ponzi scheme. Federal prosecutors successfully charged other attorneys and
members of the firm, but Edwards was never implicated, Scarola said in the
malicious prosecution lawsuit.

The revelations about the money Epstein paid to three of the young woman came
last week in documents filed for a hearing Tuesday in preparation for a December
trial on the lawsuit.

Attorney Tonja Haddad Coleman, who represents Epstein, on Tuesday sought a
delay of the trial, in part, because she claimed she has been unable to talk to her
client since his estate on his private island in the U.S. Virgin Islands was devastated
last month by Hurricane Irma. “I’ve had no ability to communicate with Mr.
Epstein,” she said.

Pointing out Epstein’s enormous wealth and his private jet, Palm Beach County
Circuit Judge Donald Hafele rejected her request. While saying he didn’t want to
appear insensitive to those victimized by the storm that hammered the Caribbean

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029861
