70

increasingly flood public events put on by US think tanks in Washington, using the
events as press conferences and to pose leading questions. While Western reporters are
not immune to this type of behavior, the Chinese media undertake such distortions
in a far more systematic manner, with a pointed political agenda that is usually
determined by the government’s current political “line.”

With this in mind, US think-tank analysts have developed a varied set of approaches
to their interactions with the Chinese media. Some see the Chinese media as an
opportunity to get their views across to the Chinese public, even though, as one think
tanker acknowledges, he knows he may be censored in “inappropriate ways.” Another
stated that despite the obvious biases, he still gives a lot of interviews—to CCTV,
CGTN, Xinhua, People’s Daily, and the Shanghai Media Group, among them. At least
one claims that while he does frequent CGTN interviews, he has never been censored.

Several US think-tank scholars indicate that they keep track of their interviews, and if
they are misquoted, they stop speaking to that journalist. One notes that he refuses to
do interviews on sensitive political issues, such as party congresses. Another indicates
he will only do live television as a hedge against being censored, while another
indicates he will only be interviewed in written email form. Two analysts refuse to
give interviews to Chinese media at all, with the exception of those that occur in
the immediate aftermath of a public talk when an analyst is approached by Chinese
journalists. In one case, an analyst reported that Xinhua conducted an in-person
background interview after she refused to write an op-ed, but she was willing to share
her views (which were negative). Xinhua then drafted a full, positive-sounding op-ed
in her name, which they planned to publish without her approval. She successfully
blocked it, and her institute now has a blanket ban on interviews with the Chinese
press unless there is a special reason. This is intended to send a message that they do
not believe the Chinese media can be trusted.

The opportunity to earn money through interviews was mentioned by one scholar. She
noted that CGTN pays $150 per interview. The network warned her, however, that if
she was too critical of the Chinese government, she would not be invited back. CGTN
also indicated that she should be “more like” another think-tank analyst who had
become a regular on CGTN.

Writing and Publishing in China

The majority of the think-tank analysts who have been interviewed for this section
have refused to write op-eds for Chinese newspapers, with several stating that they
have had bad experiences in which content has been censored. One scholar reports
several instances of pieces being commissioned by Global Times, only to have his piece
spiked after submission because of its controversial content. Others, however, have

Think Tanks

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020529
