AFFIDAVIT OF BRADLEY JAMES EDWARDS

1. [am an attormey in good standing with the Florida Bar and admitted to practice in the
Souther District of Florida. I am currently a partner in the law firm of Farmer, Jaffe.
Weissing, Edwards, Fistos & Lehrman, P.L.

>

2. In 2008, I was a sole practitioner running a personal injury law firm in Hollywood, FL.
While a sole practitioner I was retained by three clients, L.M., E.W., and Jane Doe to
pursue civil litigation against Jeffrey Epstein for sexually abusing them while they were
minor girls. I agreed to. represent these girls, along with attorney Jay Howell (an
attomey in Jacksonville, Florida with Jay Howell & Associates) and Professor Paul
Cassell (a law professor at the University of Utah College Of Law). I filed state court
actions on behalf of L.M. and E.W. and a federal court action on behalf of Jane Doe.
All of the cases were filed in the summer of 2008,

3. My clients received correspondence from the U.S. Department of Justice regarding
their rights as victims of Epstein’s federal sex offenses. (True and accurate copies of
the letters are attached to Statement of Undisputed Facts as Exhibit “M”)

4, In mid June 2008, I contacted Assistant United States Attorney Marie Villafafia to
inform her that I represented Jane Doe #1(E. W.) and, later, Jane Doe #2(L.M.). I asked
to meet to provide information regarding Epstein. AUSA Villafafia did not advise me
that a plea agreement had already been negotiated with Epstein’s attomeys that would
block federal prosecution. AUSA Villafaiia did indicate that federal investigators had
concrete evidence and information that Epstein had sexually molested at least 40
underage minor females, including E.W., Jane Doe and L.M.

5. also requested from the U.S. Attomey’s Office the information and evidence that they
had collected regarding Epstein’s sexual abuse of his clients. However, the U.S.
Attomey’s Office declined to provide any such information to me. The U.S. Attomey’s
Office also declined to provide any such information to the other attorneys who
represented victims of Epstein’s sexual assaults.

6. I was informed that on Friday, June 27, 2008, at approximately 4:15 p.m., AUSA
Villafafia received a copy of Epstein’s proposed state plea agreement and learned that the
plea was scheduled for 8:30 am., Monday, June 30, 2008. She called me to provide
notice to my clients regarding the hearing. She did not tell me that the guilty pleas in
state court would bring an end to the possibility of federal prosecution pursuant to the
plea agreement. My clients did not learn and understand this fact until July 11, 2008,
when the agreement was described during a hearing held before Judge Marra on the
Crime Victims’ Rights Act action that I had filed.

7. In the summer of 2008 I filed complaints against Jeffrey Epstein on behalf of L.M.,
E.W., and jane Doe.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013363
