definition was “arousal of sexuality.”

Lenny was performing that night at
Town Hall. He asked me to hand out
copies of The Realist, with the Ellis in-
terview, in front of the theater. From then
on, Lenny thought that his act would
be protected, because it had redeem-
able social value. But that’s not the way
prosecutors felt about it.

EP: Right. The conspiracy theory I’ve
heard is that it’s because he took on the
Catholic Church.

PK: Oh, absolutely. Absolutely right. His
“Religions, Inc” piece got him in a lot
of trouble. The reason he got busted for
obscenity was there wasn’t a law against
blasphemy, but that’s what he was really
arrested for.

EP: You know when Scott Marshall and I
were putting together the Lenny Bruce
tribute in the Wilcock comic, we included
John’s experience with Lenny. You’re
in a few panels. It’s been fun to find op-
portunities to include you in the comic
-- you're in five scenes now.

Ihave sort of a funny agreement with
John: If he can’t recall the full story, or
dialogue, I can fill in the details.

PK: Oh (laughs) well that’s trusting.

EP: You both are very trusting people! He
couldn’t remember verbatim exchanges
with you from 1961. So, we gave the joke
from you to be “Lenny would be a big fan
of your couch, John.”

PK: That’s funny. When I saw that in your
comic, I remembered saying it! I remem-
bered something that didn’t happen. Now
I have something in common with Kel-
lyanne Conway.

It’s something I would have done. You
made up something real.

EP: Thank you. I only do that in a few
panels to keep everything glued together
as a story. Otherwise it’s just a bunch of
disconnected fragments.

PK: Too close to reality, then.

EP: How do you think Lenny would
respond to Trump?

PK: I think he would do it as a really high
form of satire. He would make Trump a
hero -- in the sense that he would take
a different approach. ’m saying that
because he did that about Adolf Eich-
mann, the Nazi organizer. Lenny would
say “He was doing his job!” He would
just take an approach like that. Lenny
would “appreciate” the defined tragedy.

1See The American Bystander #1, Dec. 2015.

I think Bill Maher’s show, February
17, was terrific. Lenny would have really
appreciated it. Just the same way Lenny
got serious sometimes, and the audi-
ence would say, “Hey, you’re honest!”
instead of “Hey, you’re funny.” Maher’s
monologue that night was really beauti-
ful. Because he’s well informed, and he
couldn’t just do jokes about it. He talked
about the fascism. He talked about the
dangers. It was just brilliant presentation
of the seriousness of fascism in action.
EP: What do you think Abbie Hoffman
would do about Trump?

PK: Oh, I think he would do the same
thing as Maher. Abbie really had a sense of
humor that was spontaneous. And it was
based on being well informed. Bill Maher
was doing that. He was rabble-rousing.
He was trying to let people know how
serious it was.

EP: I can’t help but feel such sadness that
Abbie is gone. You mentioned Shepherd
as an influence, for me it’s Abbie, who
I regret never knowing personally. You
read his books and every page glows. He’s
such a wonderful soul and gifted writer.
Do you recall going to rallies with Abbie?
PK: I remember we had taken some acid
in his home, and got a call that some
Puerto Rican kids had gotten busted for
pot. Abbie said “Okay, we gotta go there.”
Show them the hippies respected the
kids who were busted. Because they were
Puerto Rican kids. So, as we’re walking
there Anita, Abbie’s wife at the time, men-
tioned she was going to regurgitate from
the acid. And I said to her, “You can just
vomit over by the curb over there, and
we'll stand around you.” That we’d hide
her. Abbie said, “Now that’s community!”

There were lots of things like that. We
saw a police car, full of four cops, two in
the front and two in the back, and Abbie
yelled, “You guys on a double date?”

I told him he reminded me of Lenny,
and he said, “Oh really? He’s my God!”
EP: That’s an amazing story, partly
because there’s no way you can talk like
that to police now without being con-
fronted. I have this terrible habit where
I thank cops. I got tackled once because
a cop thought I was someone else, and,
partly out of fear, I thanked him. I always
feel like an asshole when I do it, too.
PK: I did the same thing (laughs) when
they frisked me. They frisked the report-
ers because they didn’t want the reporters
to have guns in court.

EP: Was this for the Harvey Milk trial?
PK: Yeah.

EP: During that trial, you coined the
phrase “The Twinkie Defense”. You’ve
done this a couple of times, creating an
expression or a term, that becomes a
permanent part of the language.

PK: I once started a list: Yippies, Twinkie
Defense, jilling off — that’s a woman
masturbating, instead of jacking off.

EP: “Soft-core porn,” you coined that.
PK: Yes.

EP: What do you think Robert Anton
Wilson would say about Trump?

PK: He would be very analytical about
him. You know, he would talk about the
insanity of it. He would just get to the
core of Trump. He’d be fascinated by it.
EP: He does like “mind fuckers.”

PK: Exactly, yeah. He would be a great
analyst of how we all have some narcis-
sism in us, but Trump is the king of — oh,
you know I’m doing now what you did —
when you made up what you think what
I would have said, there. And now ’m
saying what Robert ... what Bob Wilson
would say.

EP: But that’s totally correct, I think.
PK: But he would, because — there was
a European order of priests who got
married, or something like that. And I
gave Bob the assignment of writing about
that convention of the priests, as if he
was there. He loved doing that; he made
it seem real.

That was a very good form of his satire,
because once again, it was not only pos-
sible, it was probable.

EP: What about Terry Southern? A lot
of people see The Magie Christian hap-
pening right now with Trump — Trump
is living out that description of the book.
He’s “making it hot for them.”

PK: Terry Southern was — he put a lot
of words in italics when he wrote. And
he talked the same way. He talked with
italics.

EP: Maybe he’d italicize Trump. Finally,
how do you think George Carlin would
respond to Trump?

PK: He might make a list. George loved to
make lists. He could make a list of lies,
of Trump’s lies.

EP: Paul, this has been so good talking
with you. Any closing advice to Donald
Trump, if he’s reading?

PK: | got my philosophy from [the comic
strip] Mary Worth: “When in doubt, do
the kindest thing.” B

I

—

WwW

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023643
