The Herald’s series quoted a trove of letters and emails between prosecutors and
Epstein’s defense team that showed that Epstein’s lawyers were allowed to dictate
the terms of each deal that they drew up, and prosecutors repeatedly backed down
on deadlines. The lead prosecutor, Marie Villafafia, amid the negotiations wrote to
Epstein lawyer Jay Lefkowitz: “I thought we had worked very well together in
resolving this dispute. ... I feel that I bent over backwards to keep in mind the effect
that the agreement would have on Mr. Epstein.”

Where are they now? The biggest players in the Jeffrey Epstein case

The girls who were abused by Jeffrey Epstein and the cops who championed their
cause remain angry over what they regard as a gross injustice, while Epstein's
employees and those who engineered his non-prosecution agreement have
prospered.

The email chain also shows that prosecutors sometimes communicated with the
defense team using private emails, and that their correspondence referenced
discussions that they wanted to have by phone or in person so that there would be
no paper trail, the Herald found. At one point, Acosta met privately with Lefkowitz,
who came from the same Washington, D.C.-based law firm, at a Marriott hotel in
West Palm Beach, the emails showed. It was at that meeting, the records show,
when Acosta agreed to keep the deal secret.

The correspondences also show that Sloman sought several times to have Epstein’s
victims notified about the deal, as required under the Crime Victims Rights Act. But
after Epstein’s lawyers aggressively objected and appealed to Acosta, it never
happened.

Sloman, however, insisted that Epstein’s lawyers’ aggressive defense had no bearing
on the office’s decision to set aside what court records show was a 53-page federal
indictment it had prepared against Epstein. Sloman said the facts dictated that
Epstein should plead guilty to what he called “a crime in state court that reflected
his true conduct,” adding that the case was “at heart, a local sex case.”

“It is a gross mischaracterization to describe this as a local sex case,” said lawyer
Jack Scarola, a representative of several of Epstein’s then-underage victims. “There
was ample evidence that Epstein was operating on a large international scale. The
involvement of the federal government was a consequence of evidence that children
were crossing national and state borders for the purpose of prostitution.”

At the time that the case was closed, FBI investigators had identified nearly 40
victims — and more were coming forward — who said they had been molested or
sexually assaulted by Epstein and some of his co-conspirators. One of those victims,
Courtney Wild, told the Herald that she brought at least 60 girls to his waterfront

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023130
