way -- that is, it can ironically be harder for abuse survivors to talk about abuse within the
BDSM community because the community is pushing back so hard against the stereotype
of abusive BDSM. I've spoken to BDSMers who feel that the S&M community
pushes back far too hard, and that survivors are being aggressively silenced simply
because the rest of us are so invested in fighting mainstream stereotypes. I have
never personally experienced this, but I would not be surprised if I did. And the fact is
that I'm sure there are toxic dynamics in some BDSM communities -- we aren't a
monolith, folks -- and that even in 100% awesome communities, I'm sure there are at
least a few abusive relationships. And even one abusive relationship in the community
is obviously too many.

As Thomas MacAulay Millar wrote when the most recent abusive BDSM case hit the
media, Our declaration that the abusers are not us has to be substantive. This is
something we should be taking action on. But how?

te ok ok

Dynamics Within the Community

I have personally had excellent experiences within the S&M community. However, I am
also pretty thick-skinned (unfortunately, this is partly due to lots of time spent working in
a sexist industry); and I have a well-developed sense of my own boundaries. I am saying
this not to sound self-congratulatory but because I believe that, due to being thick-
skinned, I may be less bothered by actual harassment and pressuring dynamics than
others are. Also, I am lucky enough that I've never experienced an assault. Therefore, it's
incumbent upon me to listen to how other S&Mers -- especially female or genderqueer
S&Mers -- feel about their experiences being pressured within the community.

There are issues that even I have noticed. For example, I think that there is a distasteful
tendency to talk about real BDSM or serious BDSM,” as if some S&M is more
legitimate than other S&M. That's wrong and dangerous because it can make some
people feel as though they have to push past their boundaries -- do things they aren't
comfortable with -- in order to be accepted, liked, or seen as real. On the rare occasions
that I encounter this, I try to point out the problems right there and then. There is no such
thing as more real and less real S&M. The only truly important part about any
S&M activity is that it happen among enthusiastic, consenting adults.

Thomas once wrote to me by email that I tend to think that the dynamics of abuse in the
community are a combination of the desire to avoid washing our laundry in public,
patriarchy colonizing our own, and the usual thing in small communities where people's
willingness to do the right thing in theory bumps up against their personal friends and
loyalties.” I completely agree. I'd add that similar issues arise in almost all small
communities, and it's not fair to blame S&M in itself for these problems. At the same
time, though, it's incumbent upon all BDSMers to contribute to an environment
where people who don't want to participate can easily say no, and can rely on
being supported by others when they do.

te ok ok

Existing Anti-Abuse Initiatives in the BDSM Community

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018555
