37

primary sea lane to India. As such, Gibraltar and the Suez were
crucial. The importance of the Suez was such that the presence of a
hostile, major naval force in the eastern Mediterranean represented a
direct threat to British interests. It followed that defeating the
Ottoman Empire during World War I and breaking its residual naval
power was critical. The British, as was shown at Gallipoli, lacked the
resources to break the Ottoman Empire by main force. They resorted
to a series of alliances with local forces to undermine the Ottomans.
One was an alliance with Bedouin tribes in the Arabian Peninsula;
others involved covert agreements with anti-Turkish, Arab interests
from the Levant to the Persian Gulf. A third, minor thrust was
aligning with Jewish interests globally, particularly those interested in
the refounding of Israel. Britain had little interest in this goal, but saw
such discussions as part of the process of destabilizing the Ottomans.
The strategy worked. Under an agreement with France, the Ottoman
province of Syria was divided into two parts on a line roughly
running east-west between the sea and Mount Hermon. The northern
part was given to France and divided into Lebanon and a rump Syria
entity. The southern part was given to Britain and was called
Palestine, after the Ottoman administrative district Filistina. Given
the complex politics of the Arabian Peninsula, the British had to find
a home for a group of Hashemites, which they located on the east
bank of the Jordan River and designated, for want of a better name,
the Trans-Jordan — the other side of the Jordan. Palestine looked
very much like traditional Israel.

The ideological foundations of Zionism are not our concern here, nor
are the pre- and post-World War II migrations of Jews, although
those are certainly critical. What is important for purposes of this
analysis are two things: First, the British emerged economically and
militarily crippled from World War II and unable to retain their
global empire, Palestine included. Second, the two global powers that

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031870
