changes in results. The Nobel Prize winning solid-state physicist, Phillip Anderson,
in a short but memorable piece in Science in the 1970’s said it tersely, “More is
different.” This general, qualitative mathematical theory of discontinuous change
models nicely the sudden delivery of the first and second second winds from
gradually and continuously increasing running distances as well as the abrupt
transmission of the guru’s “energy”, shaktipat, from smoothly increasing amounts of
chanting, meditation, guru service and Baba love. Gradually changing forces
leading to sudden changes in an energy-equivalent result are found in most
rigorous form in Rene’ Thom’s singularity-bifurcation-catastrophe theory applied to
rational mechanics and geometric optics. Here the existence of already solvable
computational formalisms makes this more qualitative approach superfluous. On the
other hand, the power of this both basic and applied mathematical orientation and
method lies in its approach to the qualitative understanding of variously induced
global and sudden changes in an energy-equivalent observable in biological,
psychological, spiritual and social systems, fields of study in which little abstract and
formal lawfulness presently exists. Oxford’s Chris Zeeman’s more accessible
applications of Thom’s deeper, more generally ramifying, almost mystical (due to
their apparent wide generality) results, include approaches to real world problems
such those above as well as the sudden change in excitable membrane potential
accompanying the generation of the heart beat and neuronal discharge;
mechanisms of opinion change, stock market crashes and, as noted above, the
social science of riots. Whereas Thom’s On Structural Stability and Morphogenesis
can be said to be scriptural, Zeeman’s Selected Papers, 1972-1977 constitute the
Book of Common Prayer of this church.

To review and place catastrophe and bifurcation theories in the context of the
differential equations of mathematical physics and biology, causal determinism
implied by differential equations conventionally requires continuity and smoothness
in behavior to be credible. Our intuitions as well as the formal conditions for the
generic differential equations of mathematics and physics imply that smoothly
increasing amounts of cause lead to smoothly increasing results and yield at least

local predictability: a little more leads to a little more, a little less leads to a little less.

58

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013558
