k12 considers the majority of its entire curriculum proprietary, whether k12 is branding existing materials
with its logo and modifying the associated lesson plans or creating the entire course from scratch. k12’s
K-8 curriculum includes thousands of lessons that consist primarily of existing, high-quality materials that
k12 has modified to better suit the needs of student, parent and teacher.

13.7. Management and Board of Directors

The following table sets forth certain information regarding k12’s management and directors. For more
detailed biographical information, see Appendix A.

Name Position

Ron Packard Chairman and Founder / acting Chief Executive Officer and
member of the Board of Directors

John Baule Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Bror Saxberg Senior Vice President of Learning and Content

Thomas Boysen Senior Vice President and Chief School Officer

Charles Zogby Senior Vice President of Education Policy

Peter Stewart Vice President of the Charter School Division

Bryan Flood Vice President of Government Relations

John Holdren Senior Vice President of Curriculum

Name Position

Arthur Bilger Managing Member of Shelter Capital Partners

Steven B. Fink Chief Executive Officer of Lawrence Investments, LLC

Chester Finn President of the Thomas B. Fordham Foundation

Lowell J. Milken President and Chief Executive Officer of KUE

Andrew H. Tisch Chairman of Executive Committee of Loews Corporation

Thomas Wilford Chief Executive Officer of the J.A. and Kathryn Albertson
Foundation, Inc.

Liza Boyd Vice President Constellation Ventures / Bear Stearns Asset
Management

13.8. Summary Financial Information and Projections Discussion

The following summary historical financial data and the percentages of expected 2006 revenue presented
in the headings above are based on historical financial statements. The following projected financial data
presented below is based on assumptions management believes to be reasonable, but which are
inherently uncertain and may not be realized. k12’s ability to perform as projected depends on a number
of variables that cannot be predicted with certainty and actual performance could be adversely affected
by a number of factors, including those described in “Risk Factors,” particularly the risk factor related to
projections elsewhere in this Memorandum. Also see “Forward-Looking Statements.”

112

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024545
