Norman Lear has enjoyed a long career in television and film,

and as a political and social activist and philanthropist.

Mr. Lear began his television writing career in 1950
when he and his partner, Ed Simmons, were signed to write
for the The Ford Star Revue, starring Jack Haley. After only
four shows, they were hired away by Jerry Lewis to write for
the Martin and Lewis Colgate Comedy Hour, which they
continued to write until 1953. Mr. Lear then began writing on
his own for comedy shows including The Martha Raye Show,
The George Gobel Show, and The Tennessee Ernie Ford Show.

In 1958, Mr. Lear teamed with director Bud Yorkin
to form Tandem Productions. Together they produced several
feature films, with Mr. Lear taking on roles as executive
producer, writer, and director. He was nominated in 1967
for an Academy Award for his script for Divorce American
Style. In 1970, CBS signed with Tandem to produce All in
the Family, which first aired on January 12, 1971 and ran for
nine seasons. It earned four Emmy Awards for Best Comedy

NORMAN LEAR

series as well as the Peabody Award in 1977. All in the Family
was followed by a succession of other television hit shows
including Maude, Sanford and Son, The Jeffersons, One Day
at a Time, Good Times, and Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman.

Concerned about the growing influence of radical
religious evangelists, Mr. Lear decided to leave television
in 1980 and formed People For the American Way, a non-
profit organization designed to speak out for Bill of Rights
guarantees and to monitor violations of constitutional
freedoms. People For remains an influential and effective
voice for freedom. In 1982, he produced a two-hour
television special I Love Liberty, with a cast of stars and
an audience filling the Los Angeles Sports Arena.

Mr. Lear’s business career continued in 1984 when
he and his business partners created T.A.T. Communications,
later known as Embassy Communications, which was sold
in 1985. Mr. Lear then created and is currently chairman of
Act III Communications, a multimedia holding company
with interests in the recording, motion picture, broadcasting,
publishing, and licensing industries, including Concord
Music Group and Village Roadshow Pictures Group.

In addition to People for the American Way, Mr.
Lear has founded other nonprofit organizations, including
the Norman Lear Center at the USC Annenberg School
for Communication (2000-present), a multidisciplinary
research and public policy center dedicated to exploring
the convergence of entertainment, commerce and society;
the Business Enterprise Trust (1989-2000) to spotlight
exemplary social innovations in American business; and
with his wife, Lyn, co-founded the Environmental Media
Association (1989-present), to mobilize the entertainment
industry to become more environmentally responsible.

In 1999, President Clinton bestowed the National
Medal of Arts on Mr. Lear, noting that “Norman Lear has
held up a mirror to American society and changed the way
we look at it.” He has the distinction of being among the
first seven television pioneers inducted into the Television
Academy Hall of Fame (1984). In addition to his awards for
Allin the Family, he has been honored by the International
Platform Association (1977), the Writers Guild of America
(1977) and many other professional and civic organizations.

In 2001, Lyn and Norman Lear created the
Declaration of Independence Road Trip, a four-year
educational initiative and national multimedia tour of one of
the surviving original copies of the Declaration, which they
purchased to share with the American people. As part of the
project, Mr. Lear launched Declare Yourself, a nonpartisan
youth voter initiative that registered well over four million
new young voters in the 2004, 2006, and 2008 elections.

At the Presidential Inauguration in 2009, Declare
Yourself premiered BornAgainAmerican.org, featuring
an inspiring music video that has been viewed by millions
across the country. It is part of an on-going drive to promote
active and thoughtful citizenship, as embodied in the
Declaration of Independence, which continues to tour.

Mr. Lear is married to Lyn Davis Lear and
resides in Los Angeles, California. He has six children:
Ellen, Kate, Maggie, Benjamin, Brianna, Madeline and
four grandchildren: Daniel, Noah, Griffin, Zoe.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017548
