003/003

11/05/2007 11:27 FAX ; ; ;
A1/05/707 MON 10:06 FAX 305 530 6440 EXECUTIVE OFFICE

NOVEMBER 5, 2007
PAGE 2 OF 2

=pstein iad to begin his term of incarceration not later than January 4, 2008, Thave learned that the

November hearing has been removed from the calendar and the next case disposition conference hag
not been set until Jamnary 7, 2008. This delay is unacceptable, and, pursuant to your obligations, the
Office requests that you confer with the State Attorney’s Office to try to find a date in November
when the judge is available to conduct a simultaneous plea and sentencing. Ifyou cannot find such
a date, please provide documentation of your efforts to abide by the terms of the Non-Prosecution
Agreement,

Third, there have been several press reports that Mr. Epstein no longer intends to enter a
guilty plea. Normally 1 would not Pay any attention to such reports, but your recent correspondence
attempting to restrict our Offlee from communicating with the State Attormey’s Office and the
allusion to the imposition of sentences that vlearly fall outside the terms of the Non-Prosecution
Agreement raises concer. Please confirm that Mr. Epstein intends to abide by hig agreement to
plead guilty to the specified charges and to make a binding recommendation that the Court impose
a sentence of 18 months of cuntinuous confinement in the county jail,

Finally, the Non-Prosecution Agreenient requires that you provide the Office with copics of
all proposed agreements with the State Attomey’s Office before Mr. Epstein signs any such
aercements. To date, no such agreements have been received. Please provide me with copies ofany
and all agreements with the State Attomey’s Office for our review. The Office also would like to
have someone present at the change of plea and sentencing to monitor Mr. Epstcin's compliance with
the terms of the Non-Prosecution Agreement, $0 please keep me informed of the date, time, and
location of the hearing,

Please provide me with a written response, adopted by Mr. Epstein, addressing these
concerns and reiterating Mr, Epstein’s intention to comply with the terms ol the Non-Prosecution
Agreement by November 8, 2007,

Sincerely,
R, Alexander Acosta

United States Attomey

Jeffrey Sloman
First Assistant United States Attorney

ee! R, Alexander Acosta, U.S. Attomey
AUSA A. Marie Villafaia

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012207

Id) 063
