Table of Contents
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Our business and affairs are managed under the direction of our Board, which is composed of five directors. Our certificate of incorporation
provides that the authorized number of directors may be changed only by resolution of our Board. Our certificate also provides that our Board will be
divided into three classes of directors, with the classes as nearly equal in number as possible. At each annual meeting of stockholders, a class of directors
will be elected for a three-year term to succeed the class whose term is then expiring.

The following table sets forth the director class, name, age as of April 23, 2019, and other information for each member of our board of

directors:

EXPIRATION

CURRENT OF TERM
DIRECTOR TERM FOR WHICH

NAME CLASS AGE POSITION SINCE EXPIRES NOMINATED
Gregory Sullivan II 60 Director 2017 2019 2022
Dan Quayle II 72 Director 2017 2019 2022
Michael Maroone Ill 65 Lead Director 2017 2020
Ernest Garcia III I 36 President, CEO and Chairman 2017 2021
Ira Platt I 55 Director 2017 2021

We believe that in order for our Board to effectively guide us to long-term sustainable, dependable performance, it should be composed of
individuals with sophistication and experience in the many disciplines that impact our business. To best serve our stockholders, we seek to have a board
that, as a whole, is competent in key corporate disciplines, including accounting and financial acumen, business judgment, crisis management, governance,
leadership, people management, risk management, social responsibility and reputational issues, and strategy and strategic planning. Additionally, the Board
desires to have specific knowledge related to our industry, such as expertise in automotive retail and consumer finance.

The Compensation and Nominating Committee believes that all directors must, at a minimum, meet the criteria set forth in the Board’s code of
conduct and the corporate governance guidelines, which specify, among other things, that the Compensation and Nominating Committee will consider
criteria such as independence, diversity, age, skills, and experience in the context of the needs of the Board. In addressing issues of diversity in particular,
the Compensation and Nominating Committee considers a nominee’s differences in viewpoint, professional experience, background, education, skill, age,
race, gender, and national origin. The Compensation and Nominating Committee believes that diversity of backgrounds and viewpoints is a key attribute for
a director nominee. Accordingly, to improve director diversity and best serve our stockholders, the Compensation and Nominating Committee adopted a
policy in 2019 to request that any search firm that it engages include women and minority candidates in the initial list from which the committee selects
director candidates. The Compensation and Nominating Committee also will consider a combination of factors for each director, including whether the
nominee possesses:

-5-

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024313
