expectations. The divergence between inflation breakevens and real yields seem to
suggest that investors have become more concerned about upside risk to inflation but
downside risk to growth.

Interestingly, this shift in investor sentiment runs counter to incoming data which are
painting a picture of benign inflation but growth acceleration. Indeed, wage growth
remains lackluster while the Fed’s favorite measure of inflation core PCE has slowed to
the lowest level in more than a year (Chart 4). In contrast, both employment data and
survey data suggest economic growth is on a tear (Figure 5). The Atlanta Fed’s GDPNow
model is currently tracking 2.7% GDP growth for Q1.

If it is not the data, what is driving the market’s apparent increased concerns about
stagflation? Whatever these concerned may be, are they justified? We seek to answer
these two critical questions in this report.

Chart 4: Core PCE (3m/3m, SA, AR, %) Chart 5: GDP growth and aggregate hours worked (Q/Q, SA, AR, %)
2.5 R
2.3
4
2.1
1.9
2
1.7
1.5 0
1.3
1.1 2
0.9 Mar-10 Jul-14 Nov-12  Mar-14 Jul-15 Nov-16
0.7
2S®eSOrT THT NNNMMATH HW HW © = eal GDP growth (AR, %)
e¢¢ he 5 heb He Soest FS Sot te tga === aggregate hours worked (AR, %)
SSe2Ze2F8S687Z83323 ——= aggregate hours worked, Jan (AR, %)
Source: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research Source: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research

The Trump risk premium

Our informal survey of clients in the past two weeks suggests that stagflation concerns
are being fed by growing pessimism about the new Trump administration. Clients tell us
that their pessimism reflects four main concerns:

Downside risk to growth
1. Many investors are concerned that the new administration will get bogged
down by its promise to repeal and replace Obamacare, resulting in a significant
delay in pushing through fiscal reform

2. This concern is reinforced by the perception that the GOP is divided over the
proposed border adjustment tax (BAT), a key element of the tax reform
proposal

Upside risk to inflation

3. A growing number of investors are worried that potential trade wars with
Mexico and China could lead to tariffs and higher prices

4. Many investors are also concerned that the BAT will force retailers to raise
prices

With many investors having loaded up on Trump trades after the elections (The battle
lines are drawn, January 23, their willingness to continue to give the benefit of doubt to
the new administration appears to be wearing thin. We would advise patience as there

Bankof America <>
Merrill Lynch Cause and Effect | 13 February 2017 3

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014723
