How to Teach the Twelve Cognitive Processes 1713

This should start as early as 1st grade (or age 5—I don’t really be-
lieve in grades).

How do we do it? We design experiences for children that are age
appropriate and talk about what will happen in those experiences be-
fore they do them and how they can learn from and improve upon
those experiences after they happen. Then they undergo a slightly
more complex experience that builds on what they learned. The pro-
cess is simple enough. The question is what experiences to design,
how to design them.’

I should note that prediction is used as a teaching methodology in
schools today, especially in reading. I suggested this in a book I wrote
about teaching reading in 1978, and since that time (not necessarily
because of that book) it has become more common to use prediction
to teach reading. Also, high school kids are asked to make predictions
in courses that cover current events. Kids predict sporting events or
the sex of their in utero sibling.

The idea that kids can make predictions is not a really radical
point. My point is that prediction has to be the curriculum, not be
ancillary to the curriculum. If we want children to predict well, we
need to help them do that. As it stands now, they are on their own.
As adults who have not been taught to predict well, they will make
poor life decisions, predicting wrongly about how people in their lives
(bosses, spouses, children, co-workers, etc.) will behave toward them
after they take certain actions, for example. Yes, understanding is im-
proved if one predicts the future actions of characters in a book one is
reading—it helps a lot. And, reading is a skill that is very important.
But it also helps to understand how to predict daily actions better and
how to find out whether you were right and how to explain why you
were wrong. Doing this consistently makes you better at predicting
something more important than what an author has a character do
in a story.

How do we get good at making predictions about the outcome of
actions? What outcomes do we need to predict?

Every action we take involves a prediction. When we put one foot
in front of the other in an effort to move our bodies forward, we are
predicting that this will work, that we won't fall down, and that it
won't hurt to do this. Sometimes we do fall or it does hurt. We learn
this and compensate next time. This is learning in its most basic form.
And obviously, we have been learning about walking since we were

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023859
