Summary

With the global
economy
continuing to
muddle through,
we believe that
US corporate
bonds offer the
best risk return.

36 UBS

Economy

The successful formation of a Greek government after the June 17 elections has reduced
the risk of an imminent Greek exit from the Eurozone. However, the Euro debt crisis
persists, and further reform and consolidation efforts in Spain and Italy are needed. In the
US, economic data weakened recently, but it remains in line with our forecast of moderate
growth of around 2% in 2012. The Fed extended Operation Twist until the end of the
year and is ready to do more if the economic situation deteriorates materially. Meanwhile,
Chinese activity data is showing signs of stabilization and inflation remains low. We expect
the Chinese economy to gradually pick up in the second half of 2012.

Equities

Despite our relatively positive outlook for US and Chinese economic growth, ongoing
Eurozone issues keep us neutral on global equities. We think US companies are better
positioned than their European peers, and thus keep our longer-standing preference for
US equities. US earnings are relatively robust and the recovery of the domestic economy
continues to support revenues. Furthermore, we keep a moderate overweight in emerging
market (EM) equities as valuations are attractive and we expect growth to accelerate in
the second half of the year. In the near term EM currency weakness remains a risk factor.

Fixed Income

High grade government bond yields remain extremely low due to ultra-expansive
monetary policy and ongoing investor concerns over global growth. While we expect
yields to only rise very gradually in the near term, we continue to see better investment
opportunities in other fixed income segments. US high yield remains our favorite asset
class, given attractive valuations and a favorable default outlook. We also keep our
overweight recommendations on investment grade and EM bonds.

Commodities

We avoid broad commodity exposure as we see further price weakness ahead. While the
worst of the oil sell-off is likely behind us, we see no reason for higher prices in the near
term and expect roll costs to weigh on positions.

Foreign Exchange

In light of the ongoing Eurozone troubles, we continue to prefer the US dollar over the
euro. We also prefer the Canadian dollar, given its relatively good growth dynamics, a
possible rate hike, and relatively high short rates.

Please see important disclaimer and disclosures at the end of the document.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024138
