“T will include all our standard language regarding resolving all criminal liability and
I will mention co-conspirators, but I would prefer not to highlight for the judge all of
the other crimes and all the other persons we could charge,” Villafafia wrote.

At Epstein’s sentencing, assistant Palm Beach prosecutor Lanna Belohlavek was
questioned by the judge about whether all of Epstein’s victims were told about the
deal, as required by law.

“Are there more than one victim?” Circuit Court Judge Deborah Dale Pucillo asked
Belohlavek at the June 30, 2008 sentencing.

“There’s several,” Belohlavek replied.

“Are all the victims in both these cases in agreement with the terms of the plea?” the
judge asked.

“Yes,” Belohlavek said.

Coincidentally, the lawyer representing one of the victims was in the courtroom that
day. He told the Herald that neither he, nor his client, was told about the agreement.

Acosta has not responded to the Herald’s repeated requests for comment. A
spokesman at the Labor Department told the Washington Post last month: “The
office’s decisions were approved by departmental leadership and followed
departmental procedures.”

In the past, Acosta has said that he believed the deal was the best chance
prosecutors had of ensuring that Epstein spent some time behind bars and was
required to register as a sex offender. Epstein served 13 months in the Palm Beach
County jail — but he was allowed to leave for up to 12 hours a day as part of a work
release program not normally offered to convicted sex offenders.

Epstein’s victims, now in their late 20s and 30s, are fighting to have his deal
overturned and Epstein sent to prison.

Bradley Edwards, who represents several of Epstein’s victims, defended Villafana,
saying he believed that she was directed to settle the case and not inform Epstein’s
victims about the deal.

“In my conversations with her, I came to believe that she was in a difficult position.
She never came out and said this, but I suspected that someone above her directed
her to do what she did,” Edwards said.

DARREN K. INDYKE

5300 W. Atlantic Avenue, Suite 602
Delray Beach, Florida 33484
Telephone:
Telecopier:
Mobile:
email:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021756
