To bring in a wonderful 2009, I'd like to quote an e-mail I received from a mentor of more than a
decade:

While many are wringing their hands, I recall the 1970s when we were suffering from an oil shock
causing long lines at gas stations, rationing, and 55 MPH speed limits on federal highways, a recession,
very little venture capital ($50 million per year into VC firms), and what President Jimmy Carter
(wearing a sweater while addressing the nation on TV because he had turned down the heat in the White
House) called a “malaise.” It was during those times that two kids without any real college education,
Bill Gates and Steve Jobs, started companies that did pretty well. Opportunities abound in bad times as
well as good times. In fact, the opportunities are often greater when the conventional wisdom is that
everything is going into the toilet.

Well... we’re nearing the end of another great year, and despite what we read about the outlook for
2009, we can look forward to a New Year filled with opportunities as well as stimulating challenges.

Happy New Year, everyone.

How to Travel the World with 10 Pounds or Less

Hhactins a five-piece Samsonite set around the planet is hell on earth. I watched a friend do this up

and down dozens of subway and hotel staircases in Europe for three weeks, and—while I laughed a lot,
especially when he resorted to just dragging or throwing his bags down stairs—I’d like to save you the
breakdown. Trip enjoyment is inversely proportionate to the amount of crap (read: distractions) you bring
with you.

Practice in 30-plus countries has taught me that minimalist packing can be an art.

I returned from Costa Rica last Wednesday and have since landed in Maui, where I'll stay for one
week. What did I pack and why? (See the companion video at www.fourhourblog.com ®°)
I practice what I'll label the BIT method of travel: Buy It There.

If you pack for every possible contingency —better bring the hiking books in case we go hiking, better
bring an umbrella in case it rains, better bring dress shoes and slacks in case we go to a nice restaurant,
etc.—carrying a mule-worthy load is inevitable. I’ve learned to instead allocate $50—200 per trip to a
“settling fund,’ which I use to buy needed items once they’re 100% needed. This includes cumbersome
and hassle items like umbrellas and bottles of sunscreen that love to explode. Also, never buy if you can
borrow. If you’re going on a bird-watching trip in Costa Rica, you don’t need to bring binoculars —
someone else will have them.

Here’s the Maui list.

e » | featherweight Marmot Ion jacket (3 oz.!)

e » | breathable Coolibar long-sleeve shirt to prevent sunburn. This
saved me in Panama.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013996
