    He chose to make himself the on-camera star of a 20-hour long reality show. This sensational footage would transform him in the public’s mind into a selfless hero. It would be a mistake to assume that the central role he gave himself was an exercise in narcissism.  It was an integral part of his personal transformation.   After this globally-watched video, he was no longer a near non-entity servicing a computer system at a back-water NSA base in Hawaii. In the space of 12 minutes on television, he had emerged from the shadowy world of electronic intelligence and became one of the most famous whistle-blowers in modern history.  It was a mantle that would allow him to also become a leading advocate of privacy and encryption rights as well the leading opponent of NSA spying.  While this remarkable transformation may not have been his entire motive, it certainly was the result of the choice he made to go public.


     The final choice he was made to board a non-stop flight to Moscow on June 23, 2013. 
To remain in Hong Kong once a criminal complaint was leveled against him would have meant that, at the very minimum, Hong Kong authorities would seize him and the alleged stolen property of the US government in his possession. Even if he was released on bail, the Hong Kong authorities would almost certainly retain all the NSA and GCHQ files he had gone to such lengths to steal.  He also would not be allowed to leave Hong Kong and possibly denied any access to the Internet. As he demonstrated by his subsequent actions, this option was not acceptable to him.
Once the U.S. criminal complaint was unsealed on June 21, 2013, which became all but inevitable after his video, his only route out of Hong Kong went through two adversaries of the United States, China and Russia.   China, as far as is known, did not offer him sanctuary.  According to one U.S diplomat, it may have already obtained copies of Snowden’s NSA files, and did not want the problem of having Snowden defect to Beijing. In any case, if it had not already acquired the files. It could assume it would receive that intelligence data from its Russian ally in the intelligence war.   Whatever its reason, China did not use its considerable power in Hong Kong to block Snowden’s exit. 
    Nor did Snowden obtain a visa to any country in Latin America or elsewhere during his month-long stay in Hong Kong.  As in the oft-cited Sherlock Holmes’ clue of the dog that did not bark, Snowden’s lack of any visas in his passport strongly suggests that he had not made plans to go anyplace but where he went: Moscow. His actions here, including his contacts with Russian officials in Hong Kong, speak louder than his words.
Snowden chose, if he had any choice left at all, the Russian option.   Just as he believed Chinese intelligence could protect him in Hong Kong from the United States, he could assume that the FSB could protect him in Moscow from the United States. He was not entirely nave about its capabilities. During his service in the CIA, he had taken a month-long training course at the CIA’s “farm” at Fort Peary in which counterintelligence officer taught about the capabilities the Russian security services 

      To be sure, he might not have known that Moscow would be his final destination.   He may have naively believed that Russia would allow a defector from the NSA who claimed to have had access to the NSA’s sources in Russia and China leave Moscow before its security services obtained that information. But that was not to be.
It is not uncommon for a defector to change sides in order to find a better life for himself in another country. Some defectors flee to escape a repressive government or to find one in which they believe they are more closely attuned. But Russia is ordinarily not the country of choice for someone such as Snowden seeking greater civil liberties and personal freedom.   So why did Snowden choose Russia for his new life?


   The four choices that Snowden made in 2013 did not come out of the blue. They all were planned out well in advance.  He applied for the job to Booz Allen in February 2013, more than a month before leaving his job at Dell.  He applied to Booz Allen for his medical leave, although in fact he had no medical problem, a month before departing for Hong Kong.  He brought with him to Hong Kong enough cash to pay his living expenses, according to him, for the next two years. He arranged the encrypted channel with Poitras in February 2013, three months before he would induce her to come to Hong Kong.   He made contact with a foreign diplomatic mission at least a month before flying to Moscow and, at some point, met with Russian officials, who arranged a visa-less entry for him.  He called Assange in London to arrange for Wikileaks help, 13 days before departing to Moscow, and Assange accommodated him by laying down a smoke screen of decoy flights to facilitate his escape from Hong Kong and sending him a helper.  

    Taken together, these actions show that Snowden was determined to succeed where others before him had failed.  He not only wanted to take full credit for stealing files from the NSA but he wanted to escape any American retribution for his act.  His decision suggests to me a highly-intelligent, carefully calculating man who was hell-bent on finding a new life for himself in a foreign country.  There is a common thread that runs through these four choices.  It is a willingness to do whatever was necessary to achieve this new life, including disregarding his oath to protect secrets and instead transporting them on thumb drives to a foreign country.  To protect himself, he was also willing to rely on the influence of an adversary intelligence services in Hong Kong and put himself of the hands of Russian authorities in Moscow.  He also was willing to use some of his classified documents as a medium of exchange, if not bait, with journalist to get the public attention he sought.   These choices paid off for him.  The video presentation he partly authored changed his status in the eyes of the public from a document-stealer to whistle blower.  Against all odds, Snowden succeeded in transforming himself from a low-level computer technician working, without any public recognition at the NSA into an internationally-acclaimed spokesman against the NSA’s surveillance.  And in Moscow, he could enjoy a safe life, free from the threats of a CIA rendition team dropping from the sky or extradition proceedings. He was now under the protection of Putin’s Russia.  As far as Snowden was concerned, as he told Gellman of the Washington Post on December 21, 2013 in Moscow, “The mission’s already accomplished.” 








       CHAPTER TWENTY NINE
The Whistle Blower Who Became a Controlled Source



“The [U.S.] government’s investigation failed—that they don’t know what was taken”
      —Edward Snowden in Moscow




In Moscow I had learned that Russian intelligence services use the broad, umbrella term “espionage source” to describe moles, volunteers and anyone else who delivers another state’s secrets to it.  It applies not only to documents but to the secret knowledge that such a source is able to recall and includes both controlled and uncontrolled bearers of secrets.  It is also a job description that fitted Edward Snowden in June 2013.
     Unless one is willing to believe that the Putin regime acted out of purely altruistic motives in exfiltrating this American intelligence worker to Moscow, the only plausible explanation for its actions in Hong Kong was that it valued Snowden’s potential as an espionage source.   Snowden’s open disillusionment with the NSA presented the very situation that the Russian intelligence services specialized in exploiting.   He had also revealed to reporters in Hong Kong that he had deliberately gained access to the NSA’s sources and methods and he that he had taken to Hong Kong highly-classified documents. He further disclosed that, before leaving the NSA, he had gained access to the lists of computers that the NSA had penetrated in foreign countries. He even went so far as to describe to these journalists the secrets that he had taken as a “single point of failure” for the NSA. And aside from the documents he had copied, he claimed, it will be recalled, that he had secret knowledge in his head that, if disclosed would wreak havoc on the entire U.S. foreign  intelligence system.    “If I were providing information that I know, that’s in my head, to some foreign government, the US intelligence community would … see sources go dark that were previously productive, he told the editor of the Guardian in Moscow. 

In short, he advertised possessing precisely the priceless data that the Russian intelligence services had been seeking, with little success, for the past six decades. These electronic files could provide it with the keys to unlock the NSA’s entire kingdom of electronic spying.    Could any world-class intelligence service ignore such a prize? To miss the opportunity to gets in hands such a potential espionage source would be nothing short of gross negligence.
In fact, as has been already established in these pages, this golden opportunity was not missed in Hong Kong.  Even if the Russian intelligence service had not previously had him in its sights – which, as discussed in chapter XV, appears to me to be extremely unlikely-- he made contact with Russian officials in Hong Kong, and Putin, as he himself said, personally approved allowing Snowden to come to Russia.   Putin’s s decision no doubt set in motion the operation to exfiltrate him on Aeroflot, the state-controlled airline.
    We know that the Russian government acted in advance to facilitate Snowden’s trip from Hong Kong.  Without such an intervention, it would not be possible for an American without an entry visa to Russia, or, for that matter, any other country to check-in and board an Aeroflot flight to Moscow.  Aeroflot had to be instructed to allow Snowden on the plane without a visa. We also know that a special operation was mounted to take Snowden off the plane once it landed in Moscow.  Such an operation could not have been done without advance planning.  Nor would he be removed from the plane without a plan for his stay in Russia.   Since Putin himself has taken credit for authorizing Snowden’s trip to Russia, there is no reason to doubt that these plans, and whatever cover stories were deemed necessary, were approved at the highest level of the regime.
When an intelligence service makes such elaborate preparations for extracting a foreign intelligence worker, it presumably also expects to debrief him or her on arrival.  Pelton, for example, who had access to far less valuable information than had Snowden, was held incommunicado in Vienna for two weeks during his debriefing.  What would be inconceivable would be for an intelligence service to go to such lengths to bring a potential espionage source such as Snowden to Russia and allow him to catch the next plane to Latin America.   The false report provided to the press that Snowden was flying to Latin America was likely nothing more than a cover story to confuse foreign observers while he was receiving his initial debriefing and evaluation. 
    When it comes to the esoteric enterprise of reconstructing the work of U.S. signals intelligence, military as well as civilian experts in cryptology, computer sciences and communications are necessary.  Unlike in the case of Pelton, Snowden had secret material in his possession, at least according to Anatoly Kucherena. Even if Russian intelligence had already acquired copies of his electronic files prior to Snowden’s arrival in Moscow, Snowden’s interpretation of them would be part of the debriefing since intelligence data needs to put in context.  “This debriefing could not be done overnight,” according to a former high-ranking officer in the GRU, the Russian military intelligence service.   “There is no way that Snowden would not be fully debriefed,” he said.  He also said GRU specialists in signal intelligence would be called in.
We know that the Putin regime paid a significant price in terms of the cancellation of the pre-Olympics summit with Obama. Having to accept the onus of declining relations with the Obama administration, it is hard to believe that it didn’t attempt to get the bonus of signals intelligence from Snowden.  The GRU, SVR and other Russian intelligence services would not be denied the opportunity to y question Snowden until to all they had squeezed out of him whatever state secrets he had or knew during the 38 days that he had vanished from public sight.   Since Snowden was rewarded with sanctuary, a residence and body guards, there is no reason to doubt that he satisfactorily accommodated his interrogators.  While he might elect to continue believing that he a whistle-blower true to his ideals, as far as Russian intelligence was concerned, he was an espionage source.  /
 For an intelligence service, the game is not over when it obtains state secrets.  It still needs to fog over the extent of its coup, as far as possible, to prolong the value of the espionage.  Hence it is plausible that the story that Snowden had thoroughly destroyed all his data he stolen the prior month prior to departing for Russia as well as the story that he had turned down all requests to be questioned by the FSB and other Russian intelligence officials were part of his legend.  The repetitions of these uncorroborated claims in his press interviews also may have enhanced his public image for the ACLU effort to get clemency for him.  Even so, in view of the importance of such communication intelligence to Russia, it would be the height of naiveté for U.S. or British intelligence to accept such claims as anything more than part of the cover story.

 As for the Snowden’s motive, I see no reason to doubt Snowden’s explanation that he stole NSA documents to expose NSA surveillance that he believed was an illicit intrusion into the privacy of individuals.  Such disaffection is not a unique situation in the intelligence business.  Many of Russia’s espionage sources before Snowden were also dissatisfied employees who had access to classified secrets.  Like some of them, Snowden used his privileged access to blow the whistle on what he considered to be the improper activities of the organization for which he worked.   In that sense, I fully accept that he began as a whistle-blower, not as a spy. It was also as a whistle-blower that he contacted Laura Poitras, Glenn Greenwald and Barton Gellman, who published  the scoops he provided in the Guardian, Der Spiegel and Washington Post,        
Snowden’s penetration went beyond whistle-blowing, however. He copied a vast number of electronic files, including the level 3 files that contained the NSA’s most sensitive sources and methods.  While these files had little, if anything, to do with domestic surveillance or whistle-blowing, they gave him the sense of power he demonstrated in asserting that he could make all of U.S. communication intelligence “go dark” all over the world.  We know from Kucherena that he did not share part of data with journalists.  Instead, he took it to Russia.
As far as carrying out the most damaging part of the operation, he could not have acted entirely alone.  It will be recalled that the deepest part of his penetration was during the five weeks he worked at the National Threat Operations Center in Hawaii as a contract employee of Booz Allen Hamilton.  It was there that he copied level 3 files, including the so-called road map to the gaps in American intelligence. During this period, as discussed in Chapter III, Snowden had neither the passwords nor system administrator’s privileges that would allow him to copy, transfer and steal the electronic files.  He therefore must have obtained that assistance from some who had the passwords and privileges.  Even if that reality does not sit well with the NSA administration, there is no reason to assume that Snowden was the only disgruntled employee at that NSA facility in 2013. That a dozen or so NSA co-workers attended his anti-surveillance Crypto party in 2012 shows that others shared his sensibilities and antipathy towards NSA surveillance.  It therefore seems plausible to me that he found a co-worker willing to cooperate, or vice versa, a co-worker found him. To be sure, Snowden might not have been aware of his new accomplice’s true motives or affiliations. But without some co-worker providing him with entry to the sealed-off computers, he could not have carried out the penetration. To our knowledge, whoever helped him evidently did not want to expose himself to prosecution or defect from the NSA.  That was Snowden’s role. By accepting the sole blame in the video that Poitras made about him in Hong Kong, Snowden shielded  anyone else from suspicion, which was, as he told Poitras, his purpose,  Whoever helped him may still be working at the NSA.  
  To be sure, there remains another glaring gap in the chain of events that led Snowden to Moscow: his whereabouts and activities during his first eleven days in Hong Kong.  Mike Rogers, the chairman of the House Select Committee on Intelligence, even speculated that Snowden might have been taken to mainland China during this period.  What drove his speculation was the admission of U.S. intelligence that, despite its vast global resources for searching credit card charges, banking transactions, hotel registrations, emails, police records and even CCTV cameras, neither it, nor its allies, were able to find a trace of Snowden.  It was, in a phrase later made famous by former Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld. “A known unknown.”  Yet there provided no basis to speculate that he was in mainland China.  He could have been staying in a well-prepared safe-house anywhere in Hong Kong or even at the home of an unknown associate.  All that is really known is that soon after he emerged from this venue and gave his celebrated interview to journalist he was aboard an Aeroflot plane bound for Moscow where he would become, if he was already, a potential espionage source for Russia.
Whatever his initial motivation may have been, Snowden’s actions would appear squarely at odds with his assertions of serving his country’s interests.  Even accepting that he began with a sincere desire to be a world-class whistleblower, his mission evolved, deliberately or not, into one that led him to disclose key communications intelligence secrets to a foreign power with an agenda that can hardly be aligned with his country’s interests.   In the end, it is Snowden’s actions, not his words that matter.




                                  EPILOGUE


                         THE SNOWDEN EFFECT




CHAPTER THIRTY 
The Consequences for the ‘War on Terrorism’ “

“Because of a number of unauthorized disclosures and a lot of hand-wringing over the government’s role in the effort to try to uncover these terrorists, there have been some policy and legal and other actions that make our ability collectively, internationally, to find these terrorists much more challenging.”

                          CIA Director John Brennan in response to the Paris attack, November 2015



In the evening of November 13, 2015, normal life in Paris was brought to a screeching halt by nine Jihadist terrorists acting on behalf of ISIS.  Three blew themselves up at the stadium at Saint-Denis, where President Hollande was attending a match between France and Germany, while the others shot killed 130 people at cafes, restaurants and a theater.  388 others had been wounded in the carnage.  The attack was planned over many months by Abdelhamid Abaaoud, a 28-year old Belgium citizen of Moroccan origins, who served ISIS as a logistics officer in Syria in 2014.  To organize the attack, he smuggled three suicide bombers into Europe through Greece, raise financing, set up a base in the Molenbeek section of Brussels, import deactivated assault weapons from Slovenia (which then had to be restored by a technician), buy ammunition, acquire suicide vests, obtain “burner” cell phones, rent cars and make on-line bookings for quarters in Paris for the nine attackers.. Even though Abaaoud was well known to western intelligence services, none of the communications surrounding the preparations for the attack came to the attention of the NSA or its allied services in Europe. 
Those Paris attackers who did not kill themselves with their suicide vests were killed by the police, but the real challenge in such a terrorist operation is not bringing culprits to justice after the massacre civilians.  It is preventing them from carrying it out.  As “soft targets,” such as restaurants, cafes, theaters and street gatherings, cannot be continually protected by police, the only practical means by which a government can prevent such attacks is to learn in advance about their planning and preparations.   One means of acquiring this information is by listening in on the channels through which members of loosely-knit terrorists organizations, such as ISIS, communicates with one another.  This form of intelligence-gathering obviously works best so long as the terrorists remain unaware that the communication channels they are using are being monitored.  Once they find out that their messages and conversations are being intercepted, they will likely find a safer means to communicate important information.  For that reason, communications intelligence organizations keep the sources and methods they employ for monitoring these channels in a tightly-sealed envelope of secrecy.

        Yet, in June 2013, the NSA found that envelope had been breached by Snowden who deliberately compromised three programs that it used to keep track of terrorist organizations around the world.  The first system he divulged, and the one which though it received the most public attention, did the least damage, was what the NSA called the 215 program because it had been authorized by section 215 of the Patriot Act of 2001.  This program amassed, the billing records of every phone call made in America that could be used as a data base by the FBI.  The idea was that when any foreigner on the FBI’s watch list of terrorists called anyone in the U.S. the FBI could trace that person’s entire chain of telephone contacts to try to determine if he was connected to a terrorist cell.  There was, however, a major flaw in this program: it did not cover e-mail and other Internet messaging, which 2013 had largely replaced telephone calls.   In addition, terrorist organizations had become fully aware of the vulnerability of telephoning overseas.  So although the NSA could cite a handful of early successes that “215” yielded, Snowden’s exposure of it did only limited damage/

    But Snowden did not stop with “215.” He next did vastly more damage by exposing the PRISM program also called “702” since it was authorized in 2007 by section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.)  Since a large part of the fiber cables on which the world’s  Internet runs pass through the United States, the NSA was able to intercept  91 percent of its data, including Google searches, social media postings, Skype conversations, messages on Xbox Live, Instant messaging services, tweets on Twitter and e-mails. The CIA and FBI could then track the movements of foreign terrorists.  Up until June 6, 2014, terrorist groups presumably were unaware of the NSA’s capacity to vacuum in even encrypted parts of the Internet since they used it for their lethal planning.   This ignorance gave U.S intelligence an important edge in pre-empting terrorist actions.   According to the testimony of General Alexander, data intercepted under PRISM helped detect and thwart no fewer than 45 terrorist attacks prior to Snowden’s making this capability known.

The third NSA program of interest to Jihadists that Snowden revealed was called XKeyscore.  Using Internet data from PRISM, it created the equivalent of digital fingerprints for suspected foreign terrorists based on their search patterns on the Internet.   This made it difficult for a terrorist suspect to hide on the Internet.  He might attempt to evade surveillance by using a different computer and another name but, unknown to him, the XKeyscore algorithms would continue to track him under his new alias.

To even further enable furtive Internet users evade surveillance, Snowden provided in an interview specific data about the secret sources and methods used both the NSA and British GCHQ.  He revealed, for example that the GCHQ had deployed the first full-take Internet interceptor that “snarfs everything, in a rolling buffer to allow retroactive investigation without missing a single bit.”    When asked how to circumvent it, he replied: “you should never route through or peer with the UK under any circumstances. Their fibers are radioactive, and even the Queen's selfies to the pool boy get logged.”   Aside from this warning about using Internet providers whose wiring passes through Britain, he also warned Internet users against using  the services of American  Internet companies since the NSA considered “telecom collaborators to be the jewels in their crown of omniscience. “  Snowden also suggested that to avoid being automatically “targeted” by the NSA, one should avoid “jihadi forums.”  These tips for evading U.S. and British surveillance, far from being an off-hand leakage of information, were supplied by him in written answers to interrogatives sent to him by Laura Poitras and Jacob Appelbaum while Snowden was still on the NSA payroll in May 2013.  If he intended to damage the NSA’s ability to monitor unsuspecting individuals abroad, he clearly succeeded.  Just as Robert Hanssen had compromised the NSA’s interception of communication at the Soviet Embassy in the 1990s, Snowden compromised the NSA’s interception of Jihadist targets on the Internet.

   The Snowden intervention was soon felt by the CIA.  “Within weeks of the leaks,” writes Michael Morell, then CIA deputy director.  He notes that “Terrorist organizations around the world were already starting to modify their actions in light of what Snowden disclosed.  Communication sources dried up.”  What heightened Morell’s concern about this loss of intelligence sources was the discovery a 26-page document on an ISIS computer in Syria indicating that the terrorist group had been considering using plague germs and other biological weapons on foreign targets.  The NSA was also seeing the Snowden effect on the war on terrorists.  In 2013, the FBI, CIA, and DIA had compiled a watch list of some 400 foreign terrorist targets for NSA’s PRISM program.  Up until June 6th, many of these targets frequently used Internet services, such as Twitter, Facebook, and Xbox live, to send what they believed would be hidden messages.  After the PRISM story broke in the Washington Post on June 6th, the NSA “saw one after another target go dark,” according to a senior executive involved in that surveillance.  In 2014, Admiral Rogers, the new NSA director, was even blunter.  Asked whether or not the disclosures by Snowden had reduced the NSA’s ability to pursue terrorist, he answered: “Have I lost capability that we had prior to the revelations? Yes.”

   In Moscow, Snowden insists that not a single death has been traced back to his disclosures.  I agree that it would be unfair to jump to the conclusion that he is responsible for any single event, such as the massacre in Paris in November 2015, because we cannot know whether or not a jihadist involved in the event, such as Abdelhamid Abaaoud in the case of Paris, would have used the Internet if Snowden had not exposed the interception of it by the NSA.  But however sincere were his intentions, Snowden cannot escape his responsibility for his actions. He totally and purposefully compromised an intelligence operation that could prevent such villainous attacks.





//


CHAPTER THIRTY-ONE                 
The Consequences for America: The Good, the Bad and the Ugly

 [TK]




END NOTES

Prologue
On The Trail of Snowden



  1.   “No Such Agency”—The best description of the birth of the NSA can be found in James Bamford, The Puzzle Palace, Houghton Mifflin Company, Boston, 1982, pp. 1-4


  2.   “the NSA learned …”—Author Interview with General Keith Alexander


  3.  “12 minute video …”—This extraordinary video can be seen at http://www.theguardian.com/world/video/2013/jun/09/nsa-whistleblower-edward-snowden-interview-video
/	All of the dozens of video Snowden made after this initial one can be viewed in chronological order at: https://nsa.gov1.info/dni/snowden.html

  4.  “I had written several books …”_-- My first book, Inquest: The Warren Commission and the Establishment of Truth, (Viking Press, New York 1966) examined the failure of the FBI, Secret Service and CIA to establish the context of the John F. Kennedy Assassination.  This interest continued on other of my books, including  Deception: The Invisible War Between the KGB and the CIA (Simon and Schuster, New York, 1989), in which I  investigated the vulnerability of intelligence services involved in espionage during the Cold War;  Agency of Fear (G.P. Putnam’s Sons, New York, 1977), in which I explored intelligence failures of domestic intelligence in the war on drugs; and James Jesus Angleton: Was He Right (Fast Track Press/EJE Publications, New York 2011).



  5.  “extraditing Trent Martin …”—The FBI press statement on this case was released March 27, 2013, less than two months before Snowden bought his ticket for Hong Kong. https://www.fbi.gov/newyork/press-releases/2013/australian-research-analyst-extradited-on-insider-trading-charges


  6.  “It’s very mysterious …”—Author’s interviews, Michael Hayden


  7.  “My first surprise …” -- I interviewed 6 members of the Mira staff, all of whom asked me not to identify them. Te-Ping Chen, a journalist for the Asian edition of the Wall Street Journal, also received some similar replies when she interviewed Mira hotel employees the day Snowden left the Mira.  Te-Ping Chen and Ken Brown, “Snowden’s Options for Refuge Narrow,”  Wall Street Journal, June 10, 2013


  8.  “He sent journalist Glenn Greenwald …”—Greenwald’s description of his encounters with Snowden is taken mainly from Chapter I, “Contact his book,” and Chapter II “Ten Days in Hong Kong” of his book. See Glenn Greenwald, No Place to Hide, (Metropolitan Books, New York) 2014, pp7-32.


  9.  “directly contacted via email…”—See Barton Gellman and Laura Poitras, “Code Name Verax: Snowden, in exchange with Post reporter, made clear he knew risks, 
Washington Post, June 9, 2013



  10.  “He proposed we meet…”—Author’s interview with Keith Bradsher.  Bradsher wrote a number of excellent articles about Snowden and Ho. See Keith Bradsher, “Hasty Exit Started With Pizza Inside a Hong Kong Hideout.” New York Times, June 24, 2013
       11.  “Appointment with Robert Tibbo…”==Author’s interviews with Tibbo.

       12.  “Meet with me on condition…”—this source, as well as many others in the investigation, spoke to me on condition that I did not identify them by name.

     Chapter I

     The Great Divide

          1.  CitizenFour can be seen in its entirety on-line at https://thoughtmaybe.com/citizenfour/

          2.  “Sitting on his unmade bed…”— George Packer, “The Holder of Secrets,” New Yorker, October 20, 2014


     3.  “This powerful narrative…” See Greenwald, op. cit. pp. 248-254. Snowden “Trapped: Interview with Brian Williams, May 28, 2014, http://www.nbcnews.com/feature/edward-snowden-interview

          4.  “When two NSA analysts…”—“Claim US Spy Caught with Secrets.” Los Angeles Mirror, p.1, August 2, 1960. Also see, Rick Anderson,, “Before Edward Snowden,” Salon, July 1, 2013


          5.  “Man up”—Interview with John Kerry, CBS This Morning (TV), May 28, 2014

     6.   “British cyber service GCHQ …”—RT Television report “NSA, GCHQ targeted Kaspersky, other cyber security companies.”  http://www.rt.com/usa/268891-nsa-gchq-software-kaspersky/



     7.   “He posted about it…”—Snowden’s wrote in chat rooms on the Ars Technica site between May 2001 and May 2012.  His posts are quoted by Joe Mullins, “NSA leaker Ed Snowden’s life on Ars Technica,” Ars Technica, June 13, 3013. (Hereinafter cited as Ars Technica report.)  http://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2013/06/nsa-leaker-ed-snowdens-life-on-ars-technica

          8.  “Ben Wizner, a lawyer…”-- Wizner called his representation of Snowden the “work of a lifetime.”  Kashmir Hill, “How ACLU Lawyer Ben Wizner Became Snowden’s Lawyer,” Forbes, March 10, 2014.


     9.  “Six government employees…”   Matt Apuzzo, “C.I.A. Officer Is Found Guilty in Leak Tied to Times Reporter,” New York Times, January 26, 2015. The notable exception to policy of seeking imprisonment of intelligence workers found guilty of passing classified information to journalist is the extraordinary case of ex-CIA director General David Petraeus.  General Petraeus had given classified information from his personal notebooks to his mistress and biographer, Paula Broadwell. Although none of this information appeared in her 2012 biography All In: The Education of Davis Petraeus, he had violated his oath to protect this information.  Yet, in a 2014 deal with the Justice Department, General Petraeus was allowed to plead guilty to a misdemeanor charge and sentenced to two years probation and a $100,000 fine.  See Eli Lake, “Petraeus, Justice and Washington’s Culture of Leaks,” Bloomberg View, March 4, 2015 http://www.bloombergview.com/articles/2015-03-04/petraeus-justice-and-washington-s-culture-of-leaks   
          10.  In an interview in Moscow…”—Snowden met with James Bamford, the author of the 1982 book The Puzzle Palace. In Moscow in June 2014. James Bamford. “Edward Snowden: The Untold Story,” Wired, August 2014. (Hereinafter Bamford Wired.)



          11.  “We’ve crossed lines.”  --- Snowden quoted by Bamford, Wired


     12.  “Congressman Ron Paul organized…”—Rebecca Shabad, “Former Rep. Ron Paul launches petition for Snowden clemency,” The Hill, February 13, 2014.  “Rand Paul” support, see Katie Gluck, “Rand Paul Backs Snowden,” Politico, January 5, 2014
     13.   “We actually buy cell phones…”  Snowden quoted in “New Guardian Interview with Edward Snowden,” Guardian, July 17, 2014. http://www.activistpost.com/2014/07/new-guardian-interview-with-edward.html
          14.  “Dominique Strauss-Kahn….”—Edward Jay Epstein, “What Really Happed To Strauss-Kahn” New York Review of Books, December 22, 2011
          15.  “Consumer Financial Protection Bureau...”—Newt Gingrich, “A Government Snoop That Puts the NSA to Shame,” Wall Street Journal, July 7, 2015  

          16.  “The FISA court…”  The history of the FISA court is a matter of public record. http://www.fjc.gov/history/home.nsf/page/courts_special_fisc.html

          17.  ‘Let’s collect the whole haystack, ”-- Ellen Nakashima and Joby Warrick, “For NSA chief,  Terrorist Threat Drives Passion to ‘collect it all,” Washington Post,  July 14, 2013


          18.  “Second U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals…”—Charlie Savage and Jonathan Weisman. “NSA Collection of Bulk Data Ruled Illegal.” New York Times, May 5, 2015.  This court decision was stayed three months later on August 27, 2015 by a 3-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals on procedural grounds.  By this time, however, the legal issue was rendered moot by Congress.  See http://law.justia.com/cases/federal/appellate-courts/ca2/2015/


          19.  “This program was not entirely secret…” Timothy B. Lee, “Here Is Everything We Know About Prism to Date,” Washington Post, June 12, 2013


          20.  “. By the Lawfare Institute’s count,” https://www.lawfareblog.com/snowden-revelations 

    21. “Edward Snowden is not the whistleblower …”--   “NSA Director Adm. Michael       Rogers discusses freedom, privacy and security issues at Princeton University,” http://www.nj.com/mercer/index.ssf/2015/03/nsa_director_admiral_michael_rogers_during_princet.html

    22. “Snowden stole from the United States.” Mark Hosenball, “U.S. Spy Agency Targets    Changed Behavior after Snowden,” Reuters, May 12, 2014

     23. The vast majority of the electronic documents…”—“Snowden Leak Could Cost   Military Billions: Pentagon,” NBC News, March 6, 2014

     24.  “Has caused grave damage to our national security.”—Hearings Before Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, January 27, 2017, See: http://www.dia.mil/News/SpeechesandTestimonies/ArticleView/tabid/11449/Article/567078/dia-director-flynn-unauthorized-disclosures-have-caused-grave-damage-to-our-nat.aspx
     25. “John Walker”— See “The Spy Cases,” Appendix A of this book.

     26. “The CIA’s assessment was no less grim…”—Michael J. Morell, The Great War of our Time, Twelve. New York 2015. P.298

     27. “The greatest damage to our combined nations’ intelligence systems.” Transcript of Interview with General Keith Alexander, Australian Financial Review, May 8, 2014.

     28. “Act of treason…” ---Jeremy Herb and Justin Silk. “Sen. Feinstein Calls Snowden’s NSA Leaks “Act of Treason,” The Hill, June 6, 2013

     29.” Rep. Mike Rogers….” Tim Curry, “House Intelligence Chair Hints at Russian Help in Snowden Leaks,” January 18, 2014. NBC News http://www.nbcnews.com

     30. “Were briefed by David Leatherwood…”—See “Unclassified Declaration of David G. Leatherwood,” U.S. DISTRICT COURT FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.Case 1:10-cv-02119-RMC Document 63-8 Filed 04/26/13, https://www.fas.org/sgp/jud/shaffer/042613-leather.pdf

     31. “William Martin and Bernon Mitchell”—See the Spy Cases,” Appendix A of this book.

     32.”Fact and Fable in Psychology,” Joseph Jastro, Fact and Fable in Psychology, Houghton Mifflin and Company, Boston, 1900, pp.202-204

     33. “I haven’t shot anybody…”  Statement Analysis: “The Last Words of Lee Harvey Oswald.” http://www.statementanalysis.com/lee-harvey-oswald/
     Like Snowden, Oswald was a high school dropout from a broken family who joined an elite unit of the U.S military but failed to get an honorable discharge, became hostile to policies of the U.S. government and defected to Russia.  See Edward Jay Epstein, Legend: The Secret World of Lee Harvey Oswald, McGraw-Hill Book Company, (New York, 1978) pp.64-104

     34. “He gave her his word.” Snowden emails to Laura Poitras, see: http://www.wired.com/2014/10/snowdens-first-emails-to-poitras/


     35.”a bodyguard of lies…”— Churchill wrote “In wartime, truth is so precious that she should always be attended by a bodyguard of lies” in the fifth volume of his autobiography Closing the Ring, (Houghton Mifflin, 1951)
     36. “Clapper answered that the NSA…”—the transcript was published by the Washington Post, January 29, 2014.  For Clapper’s earlier closed door testimony, see Stephen Aftergood, “The Clapper Lie and the Senate Intelligence Committee,” FAS. January 6, 2014, https://fas.org/blogs/secrecy/2014/01/clapper-ssci/


  37.  “On his application to Booz Allen…” -- Mark Hosenball, “NSA contractor hired Snowden despite concerns about resume discrepancies,” Reuters, June 20, 2013
  38.  “Read in” new reports…”—Snowden Q&A, Moscow July 12, 2013, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yNQSVurlAak
  39.   ABC News reported…”--James Gordon Meek, Kirit Radia, Leezel Tanglao and Dean Schabner, “NSA Leaker Edward Snowden Seeks Asylum in Ecuador,” ABC News, June 23, 2013. http://abcnews.go.com/International/nsa-leaker-edward-snowden-seeks-asylum-ecuador/story?id=19466318


  40.  “Read in the media…”—Snowden Q&A, Moscow July 12, 2013, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yNQSVurlAak




     38. “Morell would go no further…”-- Michael J. Morell, the Great War of our Time, Twelve. New York 2015. P.284

     39.”Angleton…” See Appendix A. “my book on deception…” Edward Jay Epstein, Deception: The Invisible War Between the KGB and the CIA (Simon and Schuster, New York), 1989

     40. “The Enigma machines…”—Hugh Sebag-Montefoire, Enigma: the Battle for the Code (John Wiley and Sons, New York), 2001, pp 286-294
     CHAPTER TWO
     The Crime Scene Investigation


          1.  “Any private contractor…”—Snowden Interviewed by Brian Williams, NBC, May 28, 2014 (Hereinafter Snowden NBC Interview.)
          2.  “About 15 miles….”—U.S. Navy Information Operations Command, “History of NIOC Hawaii”, http://www.public.navy.mil/fcc-c10f/niochi/Pages/AboutUs.aspx
          3.  “Keith Alexander, the four-star general who headed…”—Author’s Interview with Keith Alexander
          4.  “The NSA meanwhile notified the FBI…”— Author’s interview with anonymous source A, a former government intelligence executive familiar with the initial investigation.
          5.  “Within the next few days…” …”— Author’s interview with anonymous source A, a former government intelligence executive familiar with the initial investigation.
          6.  ”Copied “over 900,000” military files…”—the document was obtained via a Freedom of Information request by VICE.  See Jason Leopold, “Inside Washington's Quest to Bring Down Edward Snowden,” Vice, June 4, 2015
          7.  “NSA did not immediately share with the CIA….” Morell, op.cit. pp. 283-288
          8.  “By late July, NSA investigators…”-- Author’s interview with anonymous source B, a former government intelligence executive familiar with the initial investigation.
          9.  “They could walk out the door,” Snowden interview, German NDR TV, January 26, 2014. http://www.tagesschau.de/snowden-interview-englisch100.pdf
          10.  “According to Ledgett, the perpetrator…”Tabassum Zakaria and Warren Strobel, “After 'cataclysmic' Snowden affair, NSA faces winds of change,” Reuters December 13, 2013
          11.  “the analysis of the logs,” Author's interview with Source A

          12.  Services’ “black budget…”-- Morell .op.cit. p. 285
               13.  “Something is not right,” Alexander…”--“Interview transcript: General Keith Alexander,” Australian Financial Review. http://www.afr.com/technology/web/security/interview-transcriptformer-head-of-the-nsa-and-commander-of-the-us-cyber-command-general-keith-alexander-20140507-itzhw#ixzz3m6TkuRa1 
          14.  “This discovery came when…”—Guardian staff, “Glenn Greenwald's partner detained at Heathrow airport for nine hours, Guardian, August 18, 2013


          15.   “What we know, what we don’t know…”-- Bryan Burroughs, Sarah Ellison and Suzanna Andrews. “”The Snowden Saga, Vanity Fair, May 2014. (Hereinafter “The Snowden Saga.”)

          16.  “Discussed the chronology of the copied documents…” – Author’s Interview with Source A

          17.  “Down-loading documents for some 10 months…” Ledgett was interviewed in this time-line by Bryan Burroughs. See “The Snowden Saga, Vanity Fair, May 2014
          18.  “ Snowden had not yet completed his…” – Author’s Interview with Source A
          19.  “FBI faced a dilemma…”-- Author’s Interview with a former Justice Department official with knowledge of the Snowden case, hereinafter Source C.
          20.  “Pandora’s Box…”-- Author’s Interview with a Congressional aide with knowledge of investigation, hereinafter Source D.
          21.   “Guy Burgess, Donald Maclean and Kim Philby, See “The Spy Cases,” Appendix A of this book.
          22.  Intention of staying in Russia…”-- Snowden NBC Interview. Op cit.  Bamford, Wired. Op. cit.   Jane Mayer “Snowden Calls Russian-Spy Story “Absurd” in Exclusive Interview,” New Yorker, January 21, 2014. December 28, 2014.
          23.  “State Department revoked…”- Author’s interview with a former member of the National Security staff who cited State Department records. Also, Jen Psaki, the State Department spokeswoman, told AP As is routine and consistent with US regulations, persons with felony arrest warrants are subject to having their passport revoked, That arrest warrant was issued on June 14, 2013. The State Department Operations Center alert said “Snowden's U.S passport was revoked on June 22, 2013” after the Justice Department unsealed the charges that had been filed in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia on June 14, 2013. “The Consul General in Hong Kong confirmed Hong Kong authorities were notified that Mr. Snowden's passport was revoked on June 22,” according to the State Department's senior watch officer. 
          24.  “Putin had personally approved…”—Jennifer Martinez, “Report: Snowden Passport Revoked,” The Hill, June 23,2013


          25.  “CIA also had reports…”—Morell .op.cit. pp284-5


          26.  “Putin gave a lengthy interview…”—Interview Channel One. http://en.kremlin.ru/events/president/news/19143


          27.  “Snowden’s lawyer Tibbo…”—Author’s interview with Robert Tibbo in Hong Kong


          28.  “When Snowden first met Greenwald…”—Greenwald, op cit. p.35


          29.  “Lewd photographs of foreign suspects…”—Snowden interview, “Last Week Tonight with John Oliver: Surveillance,” HBO ,April 6, 2015, http://www.thejournal.ie/edward-snowden-says-the-us-can-look-at-nude-photos-2032314-Apr2015






     CHAPTER THREE

     Tinker

            1.  “You get exposed to a little bit of evil…” Bamford. Wired. op. cit
            2.  “Lon Snowden, like his father …”—The best reporting on Snowden’s childhood was done by Suzanne Andrews. See: Bryan Burroughs, Sarah Ellison and Suzanna Andrews. “”The Snowden Saga, Vanity Fair, May 2014.
            3.  “Snowden, alone, stayed home…”—Author’s interview with Joyce Kinsey.
            4.  “Posting under the alias The TrueHooHa…”--Ars Technica Report. Op. cit.
            5.  “Brad Gunson, who knew him….”-- Carol D. Leonnig, Jenna Johnson and Marc Fisher, “Who Is Edward Snowden,” Washington Post, June 15, 2013

            6.  “To Anime conventions …”—Christopher Johnson, “Chatting about Japan with Snowden, Japan Times, June 18, 2013.
            7.  “His “body fat percentage to between…”— Carol D. Leonnig, Jenna Johnson and Marc Fisher, “Who Is Edward Snowden,” Washington Post, June 15, 2013
            8.  “I’ve always dreamed…”-- Ars Technica Report. Op. cit
            9.  “Admiral Edward J. Barrett…”—Coast Guard Biography, http://www.uscg.mil/history/people/Flags/BarrettEBio.pdf, Also, For his FBI career, see http://www1.umn.edu/humanrts/OathBetrayed/FBI%2047.pdf
            10.  “Army records show…”—Author’s interviews.  US Army spokesman George Wright stated Snowden was enrolled in program between May 7, 2004 and September 28, 2004. Spokesman Colonel David Patterson said He attempted to qualify to become a Special Forces soldier but did not complete the requisite training and was administratively discharged from the Army,
            11.  “He took a job as a security guard…” – “The Snowden Saga,” Vanity Fair.op.cit.
            12.  “So sexxxy it hurts”—The information about Snowden’s modeling career comes from his posts on Ars Technica.  See “Ars Technica Report,” op.cit.
            13.  “Jonathan Mills, Lindsay’s father…”— Daniel Bates, “Snowden totally abandoned his girlfriend when he fled amid NSA revelations, her dad says,” Daily Mail, January 17, 2014.  The information about Lindsay Mills comes from her Twitter and Instagram postings.
            14.   “The CIA’s minimum requirements in 2006///”  CIA website, https://www.cia.gov/careers/application-process
            15.  “Deputy Director Ledgett…” is quoted in “The Snowden Saga, Vanity Fair, op.cit.
            16.  “He pointed out from Moscow…”—Snowden interview with Brian Williams. NBC Interview, op.cit.
               CHAPTER FOUR
               Secret Agent

               1.  “An hour-long NBC television interview….” Williams. NBC    Interview, op.cit.
               2.  “Part of a 12 man team…”-- Author’s Interview with former CIA officer who requested anonymity (Hereinafter Source E.)
               3.  “The only person there to…”—Mavanee Anderson interview, “Edward Snowden's Friend Mavanee Anderson Exclusive Interview,” MSNBC,”Last Word,” www.youtube.com/watch?v=beQUMdolBWE  
               4.  “He received an unfavorable evaluation,,,”—Eric Schmitt, “C.I.A. Warning on Snowden in ’09 Said to Slip Through the Cracks, New York Times, October 10, 2013
               5.  “It was not a stellar…”—Author’s interviews with Tyler Drumheller
               6.  “Snowden’s superior had suspected…”-- Eric Schmitt, “C.I.A. Warning on Snowden in ’09 Said to Slip Through the Cracks, New York Times, October 10, 2013
               7.  “The discrepancy was explained…”—Author’s interview with Source E.
               8.  “Snowden blamed his career-ending…”— Snowden was interviewed via the Internet by James Risen, James Risen, “Snowden Says He Took No Secret Files to Russia,” New York Times, October 17, 2013
               9.  “NSA experts who examined…”—Snowden interview with James Bamford. Wired, op.cit.
               10.  “Snowden later told Vanity Fair”—“The Snowden Saga,” Vanity Fair.op.cit.
               11.  I realized that I was…”—Glenn Greenwald, Laura Poitras and Ewen MacAskill, “Edward Snowden: the whistleblower behind the NSA surveillance revelations,” Guardian, June 9, 2013

CHAPTER FIVE
Contractor

     1.  “Much of what I saw in Geneva…”-- Glenn Greenwald, Laura Poitras and Ewen MacAskill, “Edward Snowden: the whistleblower behind the NSA surveillance revelations,” Guardian, June 9, 2013

     2.  “This “free pass,” as …”—Author’s Interview with Tyler Drumheller

     3.  “So the guy with whom the CIA…:-- Morell. Op.cit. p. 284

     4.  “His initial job for Dell…”—“The Snowden Saga,” Vanity Fair, op,cit.

     5.   The information about Lindsay comes from her postings on Instagram and her blog “LS Journey.”  https://twitter.com/lsjourneys.  The information about her and Snowden’s travel to Mount Fuji and other places in Japan come from the Little Red Ninja blog written by Jennie Chamberlin. https://www.facebook.com/Little-Red-Ninja-214045021941347/timeline/

     6.  “He attempted to get a …”—Mark Hosenball, “NSA contractor hired Snowden,” Reuters, June 11, 2013.

     7.  “System code-named EPIC SHELTER,” --“The Snowden Saga,” Vanity Fair, op,cit.

     8.  “Since most of the classified…”—Author’s interview with Source A

     9.  “Spotted a major flaw….”—Snowden interview with Bamford in 2014. See Bamford Wired, op.cit.

     10.   “I actually recommended they…”—ibid.

     11.  “Snowden made a ten day…”—Shane Harris, “What Was Edward Snowden Doing in India?” Foreign Policy, Jan 13, 2014. Also, Shilpa Phadnis, “Edward Snowden sharpened his hacking skills in Delhi.” Times of India, December 4, 2013

     12.  ““It is a dead end…” Author’s interview with a former Booz Allen employee, who requested anonymity.  (Hereinafter referred to as Source F.)

     13.  “Shaded by a Sakura tree…:-- The description of Snowden’s life in Maryland come entirely from Lindsay Mill’s Internet postings. “LS Journey.”  https://twitter.com/lsjourneys.

     14.  They [the NSA] are intent …”-- Glenn Greenwald, Laura Poitras and Ewen MacAskill, “Edward Snowden: the whistleblower behind the NSA surveillance revelations,” Guardian, June 9, 2013

     15.  “None of whom took any action…”--Andrea Peterson, “Snowden: I raised NSA concerns internally over 10 times before going rogue,” Washington Post, March 7, 2014.  The NSA’s response came from NSA spokesperson, Vanee Vines—Author’s Interview.

     16.  “US Investigations Services, or USIS…”-- Dion Nissenbaum, “U.S. Gives New Contract To Firm That Vetted NSA Leaker Edward Snowden,” Wall Street Journal, July 2, 2014l.  For history, see https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/USIS_(company)



CHAPTER SIX
Thief

          1. “In Hawaii in 2012…”—Author’s interview with former Dell executive who requested anonymity because of company policy about Dell employees discussing the Snowden case.

          2. “Living in paradise…” Glenn Greenwald, Laura Poitras and Ewen MacAskill, “Edward Snowden: the whistleblower behind the NSA surveillance revelations,” Guardian, June 9, 2013

          3. “You’re in a vaulted space…”—Transcript of interview with Snowden in Moscow. “I, Spy: Edward Snowden in Exile,” Ewen MacAskill and Alan Rusbridger, The Guardian, July 18, 2014. http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/jul/18/-sp-edward-snowden-nsa-whistleblower-interview-transcript

          4. “Law is a lot like medicine …”-- David Weigel, “Edward Snowden and Ron Paul Kick Off Libertarian Student Conference,” Bloomberg News, February 13, 2015. For Ron Paul position on “secret government, see http://www.presstv.ir/Detail/2015/06/02/413952/US-Ron-Paul-CIA-NSA-secret-government

          5. “Fear and a false image…”—Bamford Wired, op. cit.
          6. “Snowden was fully aware…”—James Risen email interview with Snowden in Moscow.  James Risen, “Snowden Says He Took No Secret Files to Russia,” New York Times. October 17, 2013 (Hereinafter referred to as Risen interview)
          7. “Called “Physical Phatness,” Lindsay Mills’ Facebook page. https://www.facebook.com/lindsay.mills.90/about

          8.” It was the first known document…”—Ledgett revealed this in an in interview with Vanity Fair.  “The Snowden Saga,” Vanity Fair, op. cit  
          9.” Whatever his motive, he…”  Snowden’s obtaining the NSA examination is described by Michael McConnell. See Rachael King, “Ex-NSA Chief Details Snowden's Hiring at Agency, Booz Allen,” Wall Street Journal, February 4, 2014.  The extended video of interview is at: www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424052702304626804579363651571199832 
          10 “It was totally unrealistic…”-- Author’s interview with source B
          11.”Subsequently joking to a reporter,” Bamford Wired. op.cit 



CHAPTER SEVEN
Crossing the Rubicon

          1. “What I came to feel…”—Snowden quoted in “I, Spy: Edward Snowden in Exile,”Ewen MacAskill and Alan Rusbridger, The Guardian, July 18, 2014. http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/jul/18/-sp-edward-snowden-nsa-whistleblower-interview-transcript

          2. “Deputy Director Ledgett explained…”--“The Snowden Saga,” Vanity Fair, op. cit

          3.  “Such real-time auditing…”—Author’s interview with source B

          4. “As he pointed out…”—Bamford. Wired/ op.cit

5.”Was still working at Dell…”-- “The Snowden Saga,” Vanity Fair, op. cit

6 “This 2012 theft was made…”—Author’s interview with Michael Hayden

7.” “I crossed that line…”--“The Snowden Saga,” Vanity Fair, op. cit

           8. “We’re subverting our security…”—Transcript Snowden ‘interview on PBS. James Bamford and Tim De Chant, “Edward Snowden on Cyber Warfare,” Nova, January 8. 2015. www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/next/military/snowden-transcript

          9.”Bragged to James Risen…”-- James Risen, “Snowden Says He Took No Secret Files to Russia,” New York Times. October 17, 2013

          10. “Torment of Secrecy..”—Edward Shils, book The Torment of Secrecy: The Background and Consequences of American Security Policies, (Free Press, Chicago), 1956. Passim

          10. “A coming “dark future,”-- Arundhati Roy, “Edward Snowden meets Arundhati Roy and John Cusack,” Guardian, November 28, 2015

          11. “Violate US espionage laws…”—Author’s interview with Michael Hayden

          CHAPTER EIGHT

          Hacktavist



               1.  “The group “Anonymous…”— Gabriella Coleman,  Hacker, Hoaxer, Whistleblower, Spy: The Many Faces of Anonymous (Verso, New York), 2014, pp 1-8
               2.  Sue Halpern, “In the Depths of the Net,” New York Review of Books, October 8, 2015

                    3.  “What do you think the public would do…”—Barton Gellman, “Edward Snowden, after months of NSA revelations, says his mission’s accomplished,” Washington Post, December 23, 2013 

               4.  “Silk Road, which acted…”-- Homer Jenkins, “The Anti-Hero of Silk Road.” Wall Street Journal, June 3, 2015.  Also, author’s interview with a Justice Department official who requested anonymity.

                    5.  “Assange said in an …”-- Michael Hastings, “Julian Assange: The Rolling Stone Interview,” Rolling Stone, January 18, 2012.  Also see Julian Assange introduction to Suelette Dreyfus and Julian Assange, Underground. (Canongate, Edinburgh) 2012

                    6.  “TOR originally was a…” – Catherine A. Fitzpatrick, Privacy for Me and Not for Thee: The Movement for Invincible Personal Encryption, Radical State Transparency, and the Snowden Hack, (Catherine A. Fitzpatrick, New York) 2014, Kindle edition.  Fitzpatrick reconstructs the history of TOR in Part VI

                    7.  “The result was …”-- Yasha Levine, “Almost everyone involved in developing Tor was (or is) funded by the US government,” Pando, January 16, 2014. https://pando.com/2014/07/16/tor-spooks/

                    8.  “The NSA’s adversaries also …”=Jacob Appelbaum and Roger “How governments have tried to block TOR,2011,//www.youtube.com/watch?v=GwMr8Xl7JMQ, December 28,2011

                    9.  “The state is all-powerful,”-- Catherine A. Fitzpatrick, Privacy for Me and Not for Thee: The Movement for Invincible Personal Encryption, Radical State Transparency, and the Snowden Hack, (Catherine A. Fitzpatrick, New York) 2014, Kindle edition.

                    10.  “The most dangerous man…”--Rolling Stone interview with Jacob Appelbaum, “Meet the Most Dangerous Man in Cyberspace: The American Behind Wikileaks, Rolling Stone, December 2,2010

                    11.  “Appelbaum acted to defeat-…”—George Packer, The Holder of Secrets, The New Yorker, October 20, 2014

                    12.  “She identified herself in Forbes…”—Runa A Sandvik, Forbes, http://www.forbes.com/sites/runasandvik/

                    13.  “TOR Stinks…”—Sean Michael Kerner, “Snowden Leaks Show NSA Targets Tor,” E Week, October 4, 2013

14.  “Parody of the NSA…”—Kashmir Hill, “A Q&A with Edward Snowden,”  Fusion, September 24, 2015, http://fusion.net/story/201737/edward-snowden-interview/

                    15.  “He had been “moonlighting”…”-- Runa Sandvik,” What Edward Snowden said at the Nordic Media Festival,” Forbes, May 10, 2015
                    16.  “According to her account, Snowden…”—Sandvik did not reveal her encounter with Snowden in any of her blogs until 11 months after Snowden went public in June 2013.  It was only after Greenwald disclosed in his book No Place to Hide that Snowden used the alias Cincinnatus that Internet investigators discovered that he had hosted with Sandvik the Crypto Party.  Sandvik then wrote her account of it, See Runa A. Sandvik, “That One Time I Threw a Crypto Party with Edward Snowden,” Forbes, May 27, 2014. Also, Kevin Poulsen, “Snowden’s First Move Against the NSA Was a Party in Hawaii,” Wired, May 21, 2014

                    17.  “Snowden declared the Crypto party…”—All of Snowden’s post-party activities in 2012 and 2013 come from the Twitter account of “Oahu Crypto Party”. [TK]

                    18.  “NSA’s new “culture of transparency”—Morell. op. cit, p. 288

                    19.    “According to a former intelligence executive,”—Author’s interview with a Defense Intelligence Agency officer who requested anonymity,

                    20.  “I asked a former…”—Author’s interview with source A

                 CHAPTER NINE

                 The String-Puller

                      1.  ““It wasn’t that they put …”-- Barton Gellman, “Edward Snowden, after months of NSA revelations, says his mission’s accomplished,” Washington Post, December 23, 2013

                      2.  “The Journalist to whom…” –The description of Snowden’s attempts to contact Glenn Greenwald in December 2012 and January 2013 can be found in Glenn Greenwald, No Place to Hide, (Metropolitan Books, New York, 2014, pp. 7-10

                      3.  “Up until 2004, Greenwald…”-- Mark Memmott, “He Broke the NSA Leaks Story, But Just Who Is Glenn Greenwald? NPR, June 11, 2013.  For his part ownership of  HJ website, see Dareh Gregorian, “Glenn Greenwald, journalist who broke Edward Snowden story, was once lawyer sued over porn business,” Daily News, June 26, 2013 Also, Jessica Testa, “How Glenn Greenwald Became Glenn Greenwald,” Buzzfeed, June 26, 2013, www.buzzfeed.com/jtes/how-glenn-greenwald-became-glenn-greenwald#.uyOxxkEAlq/

                      4.  ““By ordering illegal eavesdropping…”—Greenwald. No Place to Hide. op.cit. p.2. On Ron Paul, ibid, p.24

                      5.  “Freedom of the Press Foundation …”-- Michael Calderone, “Freedom Of The Press Foundation Launches To Support WikiLeaks,” Huffington Post, December 16, 2012

                      6.  “The first serious info war…”-- David Sarno, “Hactivists fight for their cause online,” Los Angeles Times, December 11, 2010

                      7.  “Snowden also sent Greenwald…”—Greenwald. No Place to Hide, op. cit, p.2

                      8.  “Government’s increasing powers of…”—Glenn Greenwald, “U.S. filmmaker repeatedly detained at border,” Salon, April 8, 2012

                      9.  “Sprawling, unaccountable Surveillance State…”-- Glenn Greenwald, “FBI's abuse of the surveillance state is the real scandal needing investigation,” Guardian, November 13, 2012

                      10.  “, Poitras had been filming…”--Adan Salazar, Mini documentary reveals full extent of ‘Stellar Wind’ domestic spy program,” Infowars, August 28, 2012 http://www.infowars.com/mini-documentary-reveals-full-extent-of-stellar-wind-domestic-spy-program/

                      11.  “Poitras had other impressive credential…”— New School blog, “Laura Poitras: Secret No Longer,” New School News, August 14, 2013 http://blogs.newschool.edu/news/2013/08/laura-poitras-secret-no-longer/#.VggJhN_BzGc

                      12.  ““I didn’t. You chose yourself.”—Snowden’s emails to Laura Poitras were extracted from her film CitizenFour and published in Wired. See Andy Greenberg, “These Are the Emails Snowden Sent to First Introduce His Epic NSA Leaks,” Wired, October 13, 2014 (Hereinafter Snowden Emails to Poitras.)

                      13.  “He wrote to Micah Lee…”—Micah Lee’s involvement with Snowden, although know to journalists Greenwald and Poitras since April 2013, was not revealed to the public for some 18 months. See Micah Lee, “Ed Snowden taught me to smuggle secrets past incredible danger.” The Intercept, Oct 28, 2014. 

                      14.  “Anon108 aka Edward Snowden…”--  



15.  “I was at that point filming…”—Poitras interview by Amy Goodman. Democracy Now, January 15, 2015. http://www.democracynow.org/blog/2015/1/15/oscars_2015_laura_poitras_film_on
                                   16.  “I am a senior government employee..”-- Snowden Emails to Poitras. op.cit


                      17.   “Surveillance of her communications…”--  Glenn Greenwald, “U.S. filmmaker repeatedly detained at border,” Salon, April 8, 2012
                                   18.  “Kafkaesque government harassment.”-- Ben Child, “Citizenfour director Laura Poitras sues US over 'Kafkaesque harassment',” Guardian, July 14, 2015

                                   19.  “The only person “more paranoid…”—Snowden Interviewed by Katrina vanden Heuval and Stephen F. Cohen, “Snowden Speaks: A Sneak Peek an Exclusive Interview,” The Nation, (website), October 10, 2014 http://www.thenation.com/article/edward-snowden-speaks-sneak-peek-exclusive-interview/

                                   20.  “You have been ‘selected’…”-- Snowden Emails to Poitras. op. cit.

                                   21.  “Binney had been a...”—Frontline Interview, “William Binney,” PBS. December 13, 3013, //www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/government-elections-politics/united-states-of-secrets/the-frontline-interview-william-binney/

                                   22.  “What you know as Stellar Wind,”-- Andy Greenberg, “These Are the Emails Snowden Sent to First Introduce His Epic NSA Leaks,” Wired, October 13, 2014

                                   23.   “Presidential policy 20…” 

                                   24.  “My most trusted confidante...”-- Andy Greenberg, “These Are the Emails Snowden Sent to First Introduce His Epic NSA Leaks,” Wired, October 13, 2014

                      25.  “He had Poitras write Barton Gellman...”—The Frontline Interview, “Barton Gellman,” PBS, March 7, 2014. http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/government-elections-politics/united-states-of-secrets/the-frontline-interview-barton-gellman/

                      26.  “CAIR, a pro-Moslem…”-- CAIR-NY Blog “Glenn Greenwald Speaks at CAIR-NY Annual Banquet,” May 16, 2013, https://cair-ny.org/blog/glenn_greenwald_speaks_at_cairny_annual_banquet.html#sthash.6DVny6U8.dpuf

                                   27.  “After they finally found…”—The descriptions of the initial two meetings between Greenwald and Poitras in April 2013 are provided on Greenwald’s 2014 boo, Greenwald, No Place to Hide. op. cit. p. 5ff.

                 CHAPTER TEN


                 Raider of the Inner Sanctum

                 1.”They think there’s a smoking gun...”—Bamford. Wired. op. cit.

                 2.”System for stratifying its data…”—Michael McConnell interview, Rachael King, “Ex-NSA Chief Details Snowden's Hiring at Agency, Booz Allen,” Wall Street Journal, February 4, 2014.  
                 3.” Snowden applied to Booz...”—Author’s interview with Source F
                 4.”Snowden made no secret…”—Lana Lam. the South China Morning Post, June 23, 2013
                 5.”He targeted my company…”-- Rachael King, “Ex-NSA Chief Details Snowden's Hiring at Agency, Booz Allen,” Wall Street Journal, February 4, 2014.  
                 6. “Engaged in a minor subterfuge...”-- -- Mark Hosenball, “NSA contractor hired Snowden despite concerns about resume discrepancies,” Reuters, June 20, 2013
                 7.”He would not have password…”—Author’s interview with Source A
                 8.”Establish a paper trail…”—Director of National Intelligence, “IC on the Record,” (Blog on Tumbler) May 27, 2014. http://icontherecord.tumblr.com/post/87218708448/edward-j-snowden-email-inquiry-to-the-nsa-office
                 For Snowden response, see: Washington Post staff, “Edward Snowden responds to release of e-mail by U.S. officials.” Washington Post, May 29, 2014
                 9.”He returned on April 13th…” Lindsay Mills’s blog.op.cit
                 10. “A brief medical leave…”—Author’s interview with Source B
                 11. “Three of his fellow workers…”-- Stephen Braun, NSA to Congress: Snowden copied co-worker's password,” Military Times, February 13, 2014.
                 12. “Robotic devices, called “spiders”…”-- David E. Sanger and Eric Schmitt, “Snowden Used Low-Cost Tool to Best N.S.A.” New York Times, February 8, 2014
                 13.”Finally, Snowden had to…” Author’s interview with Source F
                 14. “Famous warrant from the FISA…”—The document can be seen in the National Security Archives. http://nsarchive.gwu.edu/NSAEBB/NSAEBB436/docs/EBB-059.pdf


CHAPTER ELEVEN
The Escape Artist



          1.  “I’m not self-destructive…”—Bamford. Wired. op.cit. 
          2.  “At this point, Snowden…”—Author’s interview with former DIA officer who requested anonymity.

          3.  “He had visited Hong Kong….”—Lindsay Mills’ blog, op.cit.

          4. “According to Albert Ho…”-- Keith Bradsher, “Hasty Exit Started With Pizza inside a Hong Kong Hideout.” New York Times, June 24, 2013. Also, author’s interview with Keith Bradsher.

         5. “For the next ten…”-- author’s interview with former DIA officer who requested anonymity.

         6. “His first priority,”—Greenwald, No Place to Hide. op cit. p. 43

         7. “That whole period was...”-- “I, Spy: Edward Snowden in Exile,”Ewen MacAskill and Alan Rusbridger, the Guardian, July 18, 2014. http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/jul/18/-sp-edward-snowden-nsa-whistleblower-interview-transcript

         8. “He emailed Gellman under…”-- Barton Gellman, “Code name ‘Verax’: Snowden, in exchanges with Post reporter, made clear he knew risk.” Washington Post, June 9, 2013

         9. “Gellman could not make…”—Greenwald. No Place to Hide. op.cit. pp 51-52

         10. “More pressure on Gellman...”-- Barton Gellman,”Code name ‘Verax’: Snowden, in exchanges with Post reporter, made clear he knew risk.” Washington Post, June 9, 2013

         11. “You recently had to decline…”-- Greenwald. No Place to Hide. op.cit. p 11

         12. “Continuing his string-pulling…”— Andy Greenberg, “These Are ‘the Emails Snowden Sent to First Introduce His Epic NSA Leaks,” Wired, October 13, 2014


         13. “The hacktavist Jacob Appelbaum…”-- Jacob Appelbaum, “Edward Snowden Interview: The NSA and Its Willing Helpers.” Spiegel On Line, July 8, 2013, //www.spiegel.de/international/world/interview-with-whistleblower-edward-snowden-on-global-spying-a-910006.html

          14.”Overcome a final hurdle…”-- Greenwald. No Place to Hide. op.cit. p16-18
          15. “Miss publishing it…”—The description of the Guardian’s reaction to Greenwald’s offer of a scoop was reported by Luke Hardy, a Guardian reporter commissioned by the Guardian editor to write “the Snowden Files,” a book that Oliver Stone bought the film rights  from the Guardian for $700,000.  See The Snowden Files. op cit. p.100-115

          16. “Arranged for Micah Lee…”-- Micah Lee, “Ed Snowden taught me to smuggle secrets past incredible danger.” The Intercept, Oct 28, 2014. 

          17. “I took everything I…”—Edward Snowden and Peter Taylor, “Are you a traitor,” Transcript. BBC Panorama, October 15, 2015 (Aired on BBC October 10, 2015)


               CHAPTER TWELVE
               Whistle-blower

               1.  “They elected me. The overseers...”-- Barton Gellman, “Edward Snowden, after months of NSA revelations, says his mission’s accomplished,” Washington Post, December 23, 2013.

               2.  “Received a jarring surprise…” Lindsay Mills’s blog, op.cit.

               3.  “Every trick in the book…” Snowden Poitras emails. Op.cit.

               4.  “On timing, regarding meeting…”—The description of the meetings with Snowden in Hong Kong, June 3-June 9, is taken from Poitras’ documentary CitizenFour. 2014,  The film, hereinafter referred to as CitizenFour, can be found at: https://thoughtmaybe.com/citizenfour/

               5.  “The initial impression was…”—Greenwald, No Place to Hide, op. cit. p. 30.

                    6.  “Minutes after meeting, I…”--…”— George Packer, “The Holder of Secrets,” New Yorker, October 20, 2014

                    7.  “Guardian policy required…”-- Luke Hardy, The Snowden Files: the Inside Story of the Most Wanted Man in the World (Vintage New York) 2014, p. 114-116

                    8.  “The next morning he…”-- George Packer, “The Holder of Secrets,” New Yorker, October 20, 2014

                    9.  “I am in a safe house..,”—Greenwald, No Place to Hide, op.cit. p.82

                    10.  “Chosen was Lana Lam…”-- Lana Lam, “Post reporter Lana Lam tells of her journey into the secret world of Edward Snowden,” South China Morning Post, June 12, 2014.  Also, author’s interview with Lana Lam and Robert Tibbo

               11. “I was being tailed…”--Sara Corbett. “How a Snowdenista Kept the NSA Leaker Hidden in a Moscow Airport,” Vogue, February 19, 2015 

                         CHAPTER THIRTEEN

                         Enter Assange

                              1.  “Thanks to Russia …”--Julian Assange, “How 'The Guardian' Milked Edward Snowden's Story,” Newsweek, April 20, 2015
                              2.  “Julian Assange had made…”-- David Leigh and Luke Harding, “Julian Assange: the teen hacker who became insurgent in information war,” Guardian, January 30, 2011

                              3.  “Sarah Harrison, his comely…”—Sarah Ellison, “The man who came to dinner,” Vanity Fair, October 2013

                              4.  “Snowden telephoned Assange…”-- Assange interview in (London) Sunday Times. Giles Whittell, “Julian Assange unmasked.” Times Magazine, August 29, 2015.  Also, “Snowden told me they had abused Manning…”— Michael Sontheimer, “Spiegel Interview with Julian Assange,” Spiegel Online International, July 19. 2015

                              5.  “Assange called Harrison...”-- …”--Sara Corbett. “How a Snowdenista Kept the NSA Leaker Hidden in a Moscow Airport,” Vogue, February 19, 2015

                              6.  “We were working very hard…” –Ibid.

                              7.  “U.S. government informed the…”-- Jane Perlez and Keith Bradsher, “China Said to Have Made Call to Let Leaker Depart.” New York Times, June 23, 2013

                              8.  “Tibbo had a strategy…”—Author Interview with Robert Tibbo

                              9.  “The purpose of my mission...”-- “I, Spy: Edward Snowden in Exile,”Ewen MacAskill and Alan Rusbridger, the Guardian, July 18, 2014.

                         CHAPTER FOURTEEN

                         Fugitive

                         1. “If I end up in chains…” Snowden video on Guardian site. June 17, 2013, //www.theguardian.com/world/video/2014/jul/17/edward-snowden-video-interview

                         2. “Insert an encrypted key…”--…”-- Barton Gellman, “Code name ‘Verax’: Snowden, in exchanges with Post reporter, made clear he knew risk.” Washington Post, June 9, 2013

                         3.  “I can’t help him evade…”—Gellman quoted in “The Snowden Saga, Vanity Fair. op.cit

                         4.”Asked Fidel Narváez...”-- Juan Forero, “Ecuador’s strange journey from embracing Snowden to turning him away,” Washington Post, July 2, 2013

                         5. “My only comment is that...”—Lana Lam, “Whistle-blower Edward Snowden talks to South China Morning Post,” South China Morning Post, June 12, 2013 

                         6. “His passage through passport …”-- Jane Perlez and Keith Bradsher, “China Said to Have Made Call to Let Leaker Depart.” New York Times, June 23, 2013

                         7. “Snowden only met Harrison...”-- Sara Corbett. “How a Snowdenista Kept the NSA Leaker Hidden in a Moscow Airport,” Vogue, February 19, 2015

                             8.  “Assange continued creating…”-- Assange interview, (London) Sunday Times. Giles Whittell, “Julian Assange unmasked.” Times Magazine, August 29, 2015.
                             9.  “Three-mile radius…”-- Sara Corbett. “How a Snowdenista Kept the NSA Leaker Hidden in a Moscow Airport,” Vogue, February 19, 2015






                                                                             CHAPTER FIFTEEN
                                                                           Did Snowden Act Alone?



                         1.  “Totality of Snowden’s Actions,”— Author’s interview with Michael Hayden. Also, “Hayden interview,” Meet The Press, NBC, December 15, 2013
                         2.  “Maclean stole immensely valuable…”—See Appendix A, Donald Maclean

                              3.  “Whistle blower Bradley Birkenfeld…”-- David Kocieniewski, “Whistle-Blower Awarded $104 Million by I.R.S.” New York Times, September 11, 2012

                         4.  “Whistle-blower Daniel Ellsberg…”-- Martin Arnold, “Pentagon Papers Charges Are Dismissed,” New York Times, May 11, 1973

                         5.  “FBI office in Media…”-- Mark Mazzetti, “Burglars Who Took On F.B.I. Abandon Shadows,” New York Times,  January 7, 2014

                         6.  “Agee left the CIA…”—See Phillip Agee in Appendix A

                              7.  “Kalugin a top Soviet…”—See Oleg Kalugin in Appendix A

                              8.  “A treasure trove of…”—Christopher Andrews, The Sword and the Shield (Basic Books, New York) 2000 p.206

                              9.  “It is inconceivable to me…”— Author’s interview with a former Booz Allen executive who requested anonymity.

                              10.  “We know that Snowden…”-- Runa A. Sandvik, “That One Time I Threw a Crypto Party with Edward Snowden,” Forbes, May 27, 2014.

                              11.  “The FBI, which was…”-- Author’s interview with a Senate Intelligence Committee staff member who requested anonymity.

                              12.  “Snowden may have carried…”—Author’s interview with Tyler Drumheller.

                              13.  “As Snowden acknowledged, he…”--  Bamford, Wired, op.cit.

                              14.  “Absence of evidence is…”—Carl Sagan, Cosmos (Random House, New York) 1980. P. 49

                              15.  “We have many notable cases…” For the cases of  Robert Hanssen and Aldrich Ames, see Appendix A

                              16.  “The greatest trick the…”—Author’s interview with Victor Cherkashin.   The quote from The Usual Suspects was adopted by the movie from Charles Baudelaire’s observation, “La plus belle des ruses du diable est de vous persuader qu'il n'existe pas.”




                           CHAPTER SIXTEEN
                           The Question of When

                              1.  “The NSA was actually…”--James Bamford and Tim De Chant, “Edward Snowden on Cyber Warfare, Nova, PBS. January 8, 2015

                              2.  “The career of KGB…” -- Tennent H. Bagley, Spy Wars: Moles, Mysteries, and Deadly Games, (Yale University Press, New Haven) 2008, p. 46.  See also, Heinz Felfe in Appendix A

                              3.  “A counterespionage review done…”—Author’s interview with a member of PFIAB who requested anonymity

                              4.  “Hanssen laid down his …”—Author’s interview with Victor Cherkashin, Also see Victor Cherkashin and Robert Hanssen in Appendix A

                              5.  “KGB Major Anatoli Golitsyn…”-- Tennent H. Bagley, Spy Wars: Moles, Mysteries, and Deadly Games, (Yale University Press, New Haven) 2008, pp. 6-11  See Also, Anatoli Golitsyn in Appendix A

                              6.  “Wang Lijun, a well-connected…”-- Steven Lee Myers and Mark Landler, “Frenzied Hours for U.S. on Fate of a China Insider,” /New York Times, April 17, 2012

                              7.  “Within weeks of the…”—Morell, op.cit. p. 294

                              8.  “I think Snowden is…”--Vincent Kessler, “Snowden being manipulated by Russian intelligence: ex-NSA chief,” Reuters, May 7, 2014

                              9.  “A former CIA officer…”—Author’s interview with Tyler Drumheller

                              10.  “It is not statistically improbable…”—Author’s interview with former NSA officer who requested anonymity.

                              11.  “When and how he…”-- Morell, op.cit. p. 296

                         12.  “Looking to capitalize on…”—Transcript of Interview with General Keith Alexander, Australian Financial Review, May 8, 2014.

                              13.  He can compromise thousands…”--Carol J. Williams, “NSA leaker Edward Snowden seeks return to U.S., on his terms,” Los Angeles Times, July 22, 2015
                              14.   “I am still working for…”-- Barton Gellman, “Edward Snowden, after months of NSA revelations, says his mission’s accomplished,” Washington Post, December 23, 2013

                              15.  “Every facet of Snowden's…”--Janet Reitman, “Snowden and Greenwald,” Rolling Stone,  December 4, 2013

                              16.  “His hosts and they…”--Richard Byrne Reilly, “Former KGB general: Snowden is cooperating with Russian intelligence,” Venture Beats, May 22, 2014

                              17.  “I would lose all respect…”—Author’s interview with Michael Hayden.  Also, Richard Byrne Reilly, “Former NSA director: 'I would lose all respect for Russia if they haven't fully exploited Snowden.” Venture Beats, May 23 2014

                              18.  “He was put in contact…”—Der Spiegel interview with Anatoli Kucherana, “Snowden's Lawyer: 'Russia Will Not Hand Him Over’,” Spiegel Online International, June 24, 2013.

                              19.  “An interview as “great…”-- James Bamford and Tim De Chant, “Edward Snowden on Cyber Warfare, Nova, PBS. January 8, 2015



                         20.  “One million dollars for…”—This payment was revealed in the Sony documents allegedly stolen by North Korea.  They were posted on the Wikileaks website.  Author’s interview with Oliver Stone.
                              21.  “Putin’s telethon on…”-- Elias Grolla, “Snowden Called in to Putin’s Telethon. Does That Really Make Him a Kremlin Pawn?” Foreign Policy, April 17, 2014

                           CHAPTER SEVENTEEN

                           The Keys to the Kingdom Are Missing

                              1.  “There’s a zero percent…”-- James Risen,   “Snowden Says He Took No Secret Files to Russia,” New York Times, October 17, 2013

                              2.  “The instruction manual …”--Glenn Greenwald, “Guardian Journalist: Snowden docs contain NSA 'blueprint',” USA Today, June 15, 2013

                              3.  “A heart attack” when…”—Sound track, CitizenFour, op.cit

                              4.  “Keys to the Kingdom…”—Walter Pincus, “Snowden still holding ‘keys to the kingdom’,” Washington Post, December 18m 2013.  Also, Richard Ledgett interview, :60 Minutes,” CBS, December 15, 2013

                              5.  “Jack Dunlap and David Boone…”  See Appendix A.

                              6.  “Of these “touched” documents…”—Author’s Interview with Source A.

                              7.  “This total included documents…” Author’s interview with a staff member of the Senate Intelligence Committee who requested anonymity.

                              8.  “Snowden also disputed the…”—Bamford, Wired, op cit.

                              9.  “Via a Vice magazine…”--  Jason Leopold, “Inside Washington's Quest to Bring Down Edward Snowden,” Vice, June 4, 2015

                              10.  “A roadmap of what…”—The Snowden Saga, Vanity Fair. op. cit.

                              11.  “The compartment logs showed…”—Author’s interview with Source A.

                              12.  No intelligence service…”-- Glenn Greenwald, “Email exchange between Edward Snowden and former GOP Senator Gordon Humphrey,” Guardian, July 16, 2013 

                              13.  An answer came three…”-- Sophie Shevardnadze, “'Snowden believes he did everything right' - lawyer Anatoly Kucherena,” RT Television, September 23, 2013 //www.rt.com/shows/sophieco/snowden-russia-lawyer-kucherena-214/

                              14.  “I had all of…”—Author’s interview with Anatoly Kucherena

                              15.  “Shevardnadze, who told me…”—Author’s interview with Sophie Shevardnadze

                              16.  “He was correct that …”—Morell, op. cit. p. 287.  Also, Author’s interview with Anatoly Kucherena

                              17.  “Russian cyber service had…”—Author’s interview with a former member of the staff of the National Security Advisor.

                              18.  “State Department explicitly told…”-- Author’s interview with a former member of the staff of the National Security Advisor.

                              19.  “In this exchange…”-- James Risen, “Snowden Says He Took No Secret Files to Russia,” New York Times, October 17, 2013

                              20.   “I had spent ten years…”--Kashmir Hill, “How ACLU Attorney Ben Wizner Became Snowden's Lawyer,” Forbes, March 10, 2014

                              21.  “Russians can't break my finger …”-- NBC Interview with Brian Williams, op. cit.  See also The Snowden Saga, Vanity Fair. op.ed and Bamford. Wired. op.ed.

                                  19  “Chinese government had managed…”-- Jane Perlez and Keith Bradsher, “China Said to Have Made Call to Let Leaker Depart.” New York Times, June 23, 2013

                                  20  “Both the Chinese and the Russians…”—Morell. op. cit. p. 284

                                  21  .”What I can say…”—Snowden Interview, ARD-TV, January 26, 2014. https://docs.google.com/file/d/0B95Id3j0M0lrdDA5WlZ4dllUbjg/preview

                                  22  “She urgently texted Snowden…”—Laura Poitras, CitizenFour.

                                  23  “Poitras’ co-interrogator of Snowden.” Jacob Appelbaum, “Edward Snowden Interview: The NSA and Its Willing Helpers.” Spiegel On Line, July 8, 2013

                                  24  “There was no document…”—Author’s interview with Source B

                                  25  “He reported that no…”—Bamford, Wired. op.cit

                                  26  “Another mole in the NSA…”-- Bamford, Wired. op.cit

                                  27  “Greenwald and Poitras also…”-- Staff, “Snowden leak: Israeli commandos killed Syrian general at dinner party.” Jerusalem Post, July 16, 2015/  Also, Author’s interview with Source B

                              28. “Putin publicly forbade him…”—Interview Channel One. http://en.kremlin.ru/events/president/news/19143.  Also Author’s interview with former Russian intelligence officer who requested anonymity...

                              29. “If Snowden didn’t give...”—Author’s interview with Source B


                              30. “German federal prosecutor concluded…”-- Theodore Schleifer, “Germany drops probe into U.S. spying on Merkel,” CNN Politics,


                               June 13, 2015 
                              31.  “ NSA lost sight of…”-- Adam Entous, Julian E. Barnes and Siobhan Gorman, “U.S. Scurries to Shore Up Spying on Russia,” Wall Street Journal, March 24, 2013


                              32. “Britain also discovered…”-- Tom Harper, Richard Kerbaj and Tim Shipman, “British spies betrayed to Russians and Chinese,” Sunday Times (London) June 14 2015.



                                   32.  “Losing some of its capabilities…”--Chris Strohm and Gopal Ratnam, “NSA Leader Seeks Openness on Secret Surveillance Orders.” Bloomberg News, June 13, 2013. Also Author’s Interview with a staff member of National Security Council who requested anonymity.


CHAPTER EIGHTEEN 
The Unheeded Warning



          1.  “The NSA—the world’s…”—Morell, op. cit. p. 287
          2.  “Alexander Poteyev, a 54-year old…”-- Sergei L. Loiko, “Former Russian spymaster convicted of treason,” Los Angeles Times. June 28, 2011

          3.  “Harold Nicholson in 1996…—See Harold Nicolson, Appendix A

          4.  “According to Pavel Sudoplatov…”—p.xxii 

          5.  “The CIA learned of this…”—Author’s interview with Source B

          6.  Preparing these “Americans,”-- FBI, “Operation Ghost Stories: Inside the Russian Spy Case.” October 31,2011, https://www.fbi.gov/news/stories/2011/october/russian_103111/russian_103111

          7.  “Angleton had pointed out…”—Author's interview with James Jesus Angleton.

          8.  “The situation suddenly changed…”-- Bill Gertz, “Counterspies hunt Russian mole inside National Security Agency,” Washington Times, December 1, 2010. Also, author’s interview with Bill Gertz.

          9.  “A counter-espionage probe…”—Author’s interview with former NSA executive who requested anonymity.

          10.  “Insider threats by trusted insiders…”--Barton Gellman and Greg Miller, “‘Black budget’ summary details U.S. spy network’s successes, failures and objectives.” Washington Post, August 25, 2013

          11.  “The pre-emptive arrests also…”-- Gregory L. White, “Russia Convicts Former Spy Official for Exposing Agents in U.S. Ring,” Wall Street Journal, June 28, 2011

          12.  “Turned up no evidence…”-- Author’s interview with former NSA executive who requested anonymity.

          13.  “Broke the record for…”—Tennent Bagley, Spy Master, (Sky Horse Publishing, New York) 2015, p.3

          14.  “Russia had dispatched at least…”—Tim Weiner, Legacy of Ashes, (Doubleday, New York) 2007, pp.450-451.  Also, Walter Pincus, “CIA passed bogus news to presidents,” Washington Post, October 31, 1995

          15.  “There are no rivers…”—Michael Hayden interview in Wall Street Journal.   Gerald Baker, “Michael Hayden Says U.S. Is Easy Prey for Hackers,” Wall Street Journal June 22, 2015

          16.    “The best defense in this…”—Author’s interview with Source B/

          17.  “Meanwhile, it had become…”—Morell. op. cit. p. xv

































          CHAPTER NINETEEN
          The Rise of the NSA

          1.  “There are many things…” -- Barton Gellman, “Edward Snowden, after months of NSA revelations, says his mission’s accomplished, “ Washington Post, December 13, 2013

          2.  “By 1914, the US Army…”—National Security Agency, Pearl Harbor Review: The Black Chamber, NSA, 2009 https://www.nsa.gov/about/cryptologic_heritage/center_crypt_history/pearl_harbor_review/black_chamber.shtml

          3.   “Its sensitive ears catch ,,,”—David Kahn, The Codebreakers (Simon and Schuster, New York), 1967  p.358

          4.  “Expeditions to penetrate cables…”—Bob Woodward, Veil: The Secret Wars of the CIA, 1981-1987, (Simon and Schuster, New York), 2005, pp. 471`-5

          5.  “In 1980, President Ronald Reagan…”—David R. Shedd, “How Obama Unilaterally Chilled Surveillance,” Wall Street Journal, November 30, 2015

          6.  “We are approaching a…”--Stansfield Turner, Secrecy and Democracy: The CIA in Transition (Houghton Mifflin, New York) 1985, p.92

          7.  “Vastness of the…”—Woodward. op.cit. p.202

          8.  “James Bond” provision of the…”--Ian Cobain, “How secret renditions shed light on MI6's license to kill and torture,” Guardian, February 13, 2012

          9.  “The NSA had assiduously…”Kevin Poulson, “New Snowden Leak Reports ‘Groundbreaking’ NSA Crypto-Cracking,” Wired. August 29, 2013

          10.  “Yes, my continental European…”—R. James Woolsey, “Why we spy on our allies,” Wall Street Journal. March 17, 2000

               11.  “Very foundation of US intelligence…”--John McLaughlin, “We need NSA to do what it does -- it makes us safer,” Press of Atlantic City, January 8, 2014 

          12.  “It made leading hacktavists…”-- Charlie Savage, Julia Angwin, Jeff Larson and Henrik Moltke, “Hunting for Hackers, N.S.A. Secretly Expands Internet Spying at U.S. Border,” New York Times, June 4, 2015

          13.   , Rajesh De, the NSA’s …”—Rajesh De, “Former NSA Lawyer on ‘Harm’ of Edward Snowden’s Revelations,” Bloomberg, July 27, 2015. https://bol.bna.com/former-nsa-lawyer-on-harm-of-edward-snowdens-revelations/

          14.  “The attack on Sony…”-- Rob Lever, “Some Experts Still Aren't Convinced That North Korea Hacked Sony,” Business Insider, December 30, 2014

          15.  “The Chinese are viewed …”--General Alexander quoted in: Kelley Vlahos, “America’s Already-Failed Cyber War,” The American Conservative, July 23, 2015

          16.  “We are bolstering our…”--Staff, “Black Budget: Congressional Budget Justification Excerpt,” Washington Post, August 30, 2013

          17.  “These compartments were the…”—Author’s interview with Source B

          18.   “The queen on our chessboard…”—Author’s interview with Source A

          19.  “To confront flagging morale…”—Author’s interview with Michael Haydon

          20.  “The nation has lost …”--Nicole Mulvaney,”NSA Director Adm. Michael Rogers discusses freedom, privacy and security issues at Princeton University,” N.J. com. March 14, 2015.  http://www.nj.com/mercer/index.ssf/2015/03/nsa_director_admiral_michael_rogers_during_princet.html

               21.  “Although repairing the damage…”-- Rachael King, “Ex-NSA Chief Details Snowden's Hiring at Agency, Booz Allen,” Wall Street Journal, February 4, 2014.  

            CHAPTER TWENTY

            The NSA’s Back Door



            1.  “You have private for-profit …”--James Bamford and Tim De Chant, “Edward Snowden on Cyber Warfare.” PBS Nova, January 8 2015
            2.  “Ames had been a...”—See Aldrich Ames, Appendix A

            3.  “All their classified information...”—Anonymous, “Out of Control,” NSA. http://nsarchive.gwu.edu/NSAEBB/NSAEBB424/docs/Cyber-009.pdf

            4.  “Whitworth came from a...”-- See Jerry Whitworth, Appendix A

            5.  “All of us just…”-- Gerald Baker, “Michael Hayden Says U.S. Is Easy Prey for Hackers,” Wall Street Journal, June 21, 2015

            6.  “White House lawyer …”-- Rajesh De, “Former NSA Lawyer on ‘Harm’ of Edward Snowden’s Revelations,” Bloomberg, July 27, 2015. https://bol.bna.com/former-nsa-lawyer-on-harm-of-edward-snowdens-revelations/

            7.  “North Korea in 1968…”-- John Prados and Jack Cheevers, “USS Pueblo: LBJ Considered Nuclear Weapons,” National Security Archive Electronic Briefing Book No. 453, January 23, 2014

                 8.  “Booz Allen, like all…”—  Booz Allen Hamilton issued a history of its evolution in 2004.,\ “Helping Clients Envision the Future,” PDF file, 2004 https://www.boozallen.com/content/dam/boozallen/documents/90th-History-Book-Complete.pdf

            9.  “The private company named… Julie Cresswell, “The Private Equity Firm That Grew Too Fast,” New York Times, April 24, 2015

            10.  “USIS had prematurely closed…”-- Tom Hamburger and Debbi Wilgoren, “Justice Department says USIS submitted 665,000 incomplete background checks,” Washington Post, January 23, 2014

            11.     “USIS was also opened to…”-- Ellen Nakashima, “DHS contractor suffers major computer breach, officials say,” Washington Post, August 6, 2014

            12.  “Successful 2011 attack on…”-- Andy Greenberg, “Anonymous Hackers Breach Booz Allen Hamilton,” Forbes, July 11, 2011

            13.  “A computer system called E-QIP…”-- Joe Davidson, “ Federal background check system shut down because of ‘vulnerability’,” Washington Post, June 29, 2015

            14.  “This memorandum noted the…”—Author’s interview with a former NSA executive who requested anonymity.

            15.  “NSA was set back…”-- Rachael King, “Ex-NSA Chief Details Snowden's Hiring at Agency, Booz Allen,” Wall Street Journal, February 4, 2014.

            CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE

            The Russians are Coming

     1.  “The break-up of the…”--Nick Allen, “Soviet break-up was geopolitical disaster, says Putin,” The Telegraph, April 26, 2005

     2.  “ Russian units had managed…”-- Adam Entous, Julian E. Barnes and Siobhan Gorman, “U.S. Scurries to Shore Up Spying on Russia,” Wall Street Journal, March 24, 2013

     3.  “Russian acronym SORM had…”-- Stephen Aftergood, “The Red Web: Russia and the Internet,” FAS, October 5, 2015. https://fas.org/blogs/secrecy/2015/10/red-web/


     4.  “William Martin and Bernon Mitchell…”—David P. Mowry, “Betrayers of the Trust,”  Cryptologic Almanac 50th Anniversary Series, (NSA) February 28, 2003

     5.  “Victor Norris Hamilton…”-- Staff, “American Defector Is Found in Russian Prison,” New York Times, June 4, 1992

     6.  “He was found dead of…”—Edward Jay Epstein, “The Spy Wars,” New York Times, September 28, 1980

     7.  “Robert Lipka, a clerk…”—See Robert Lipka Appendix A

     8.  “ David Sheldon Boone…”—See David Boone, Appendix A

          9.  “Harold Nicholson, the CIA’s deputy…”— Elizabeth Farnsworth, “Update on the Case of CIA Agent Harold Nicholson,” PBS (Transcript) November 19, 1996. See Also “AFFIDAVIT IN SUPPORT OF COMPLAINT, ARREST WARRANT AND SEARCH WARRANTS UNITED STATES v. HAROLD J. NICHOLSON.” http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/national/longterm/ciaspy/affidavt.htm

          10.  “Well-experienced with false flags…”—Edward Jay Epstein, Deception: The Invisible War Between the KGB and the CIA,(Simon and Schuster, New York) 1989, pp 22-28

          11.  “When it comes to recruiting moles…” –Author’s interviews with Angleton.

          12.  “The “Trust” deception…”-- Edward Jay Epstein, Deception: the Invisible War between the KGB and the CIA, (Simon and Schuster, New York) 1989, pp 22-28. Also, Author’s interview with Raymond Rocca, the CIA’s former research chief for the Counterintelligence staff.

          13.  “With “a learning experience…”-- Anonymous, “Out of Control,” NSA. http://nsarchive.gwu.edu/NSAEBB/NSAEBB424/docs/Cyber-009.pdf

          14.   “From the 127-page…”--David Larter and Andrew Tilghman, “Military clearance OPM data breach 'absolute calamity' ,” Navy Times, June 18, 2015

          15.   “It is next to impossible…”--Bruce Schneier quoted in Homer Jenkins, “The Anti-Hero of Silk Road.” Wall Street Journal, June 3,2015

          16.  “Under Putin, Russia had…”-- Nicole Perlroth, “Online Security Experts Link More Breaches to Russian Government, New York Times, October 28, 2014

          17.  “The Silk Road founder…”-- Homer Jenkins, “The Anti-Hero of Silk Road.” Wall Street Journal, June 3, 2015.  Also author’s interview with a former Justice Department official who requested anonymity.

          18.  “Better cyber security than…”—Morell. op.cit. p. 291

       CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO

       The Chinese Puzzle

     1.  “The first [false assumption] …”—Snowden video in Hong Kong


          2.  “Giving China its first…”--2014 Annual Report to Congress by the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, quoted in David Tweed, “China Takes Nuclear Weapons Undersea Away From Prying Eyes, Bloomberg Business, December 8, 2014
          3.  “Results of decades of...”—Select Committee, U.S. Congress, Report, 1999. http://www.house.gov/coxreport/chapfs/over.html

          4.  “A vast enterprise in China…”-- Nir Kshetri, The Rapidly Transforming Chinese High-Technology Industry and Market (Chandos Publishing, London) 2008. p.92

          5.  “By 2007, Paul Strassmann…”-- Staff, “China 'has .75M zombie computers' in U.S.,”  UPI, September 17, 2007

          6.  “Cyber attack had harvested…”-- James Lewis, “Hackers May Have Obtained Names), New York Times, June 11,2015

          7.  “Those records are a legitimate...”-- Gerald Baker, “Michael Hayden Says U.S. Is Easy Prey for Hackers,” Wall Street Journal. June 21, 2015

     8.  Any attempt to monopolize…-- Patrick Goodenough, “Chinese President in Veiled Warning to the US: Don’t Try to ‘Monopolize Regional Affairs.’ CNS News May 22, 2014

          9.  “This mandate includes monitoring…”—Author’s interview with a dormer U.S. intelligence officer stationed in Hong Kong who requested anonymity.

     10.  “Regards Hong Kong as ...”—Author’s interview with Tyler Drumheller



          CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE

         The Pawn in the Game

       1.  “The whole key is...”-- Transcript of interview with Snowden in Moscow. “I, Spy: Edward Snowden in Exile,” Ewen MacAskill and Alan Rusbridger, the Guardian, July 18, 2014. http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/jul/18/-sp-edward-snowden-nsa-whistleblower-interview-transcript.
       2.  “Sources go dark that…”—ibid.

       3.  “Single point of failure…”—Ibid.

       4.  “If any further incentive…”—Morell. op.cit. p.286

       5.  “Snowden thinks he is…”-- Morell. op.cit.p.285

       6.  “The purpose of my…”--“I, Spy: Edward Snowden in Exile,” Ewen MacAskill and Alan Rusbridger, The Guardian, July 18, 2014. http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/jul/18/-sp-edward-snowden-nsa-whistleblower-interview-transcript

  7.  “The time pressure resulted…”-- Barton Gellman, “Code name ‘Verax’: Snowden, in exchanges with Post reporter, made clear he knew risk.” Washington Post, June 9, 2013

       8.  “This guy isn’t where…”-- I, Spy: Edward Snowden in Exile,” Ewen MacAskill and Alan Rusbridger, the Guardian, July 18, 2014. http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/jul/18/-sp-edward-snowden-nsa-whistleblower-interview-transcript

       9.  “It was a nervous period…”—ibid.

