accused of plots of all kinds: including that of wanting to replace Italians with immigrants in order to
have labour at low cost. A mantra repeated in the past on Twitter also by the current Minister of the
Interior Matteo Salvini.

The ambition of Steve Bannon, former director of the alt-right American site Breitbart — which in
the European campaign preceded him since the platform had already opened bureaux in London and
Rome — is therefore to become the coordinator of the one great “populist international” of which he
has long since been dreaming.

The Movement, in fact, intends to function as an extreme right-wing think tank: a source of strategic
advice to channel the not-so-politically structured discontent of the most extreme European
movements. Analysing data and giving strategic advice. But also by raising funds and channeling
funding.

The aim is to create a populist alliance, a sort of “super group” that if victorious can conquer up to a
third of the European Parliament in the elections next May.

Indeed — putting the common policy of the Old Continent in the hands of Bannon and his own. The
American strategist is very attached to the Freedom Caucus — the extreme right of the US Congress
— and in 2014 he was at the top of the Cambridge Analytica company, which in 2016 used data
stolen from Facebook to try to influence the presidential election from which Donald Trump emerged
victor. It is not a mystery that for a long time he courts nationalists of the right from East to West.
And he has already met, among others, the Hungarian Orban, the French Marine Le Pen and the
former leader of the British separatists Nigel Farage. The latter reappeared, coincidentally, on Friday
in Pennsylvania, USA, to a fundraiser in favor of the Republican congressman Lou Barletta. Without
forgetting the Italians of Lega and 5 stars. Of them, he said: If it works in Italy, we can import the
model anywhere”.

The Movement, which for now will count on a staff of 10 people, will be fully operational in 2019. In
short, after the American midterm elections, where Bannon is fighting to influence the primaries
supporting candidates potentially able to undermine the prospects of Republican establishment. But in
the future the former spin doctor says he wants to spend more and more time in Europe. Also because
the relationships with Trump have worsened after the revelations he made to Michael Wolff and
published in the scandal book “Fire and Fury”. “Better to reign in Hell than to serve in Paradise,”
Bannon says now paraphrasing the Satan of one of his favorite books, John Milton's Lost Paradise.
Hell in this case would be the dear old Europe and its democratic values. The “army of darkness” is
already among us.

In Sacratissimo Corde Jesu et Purissimo Corde Mariae et Castissimo Corde Ioseph.

is 2k 3s 2g Os 2g 2

Benjamin Harnwell
Founder and President of the Board of Trustees
Dignitatis Humanae Institute

Cell:
Office: ay

Istituto Dignitatis Humanae

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019335
