67

C.H. Tung and his China-US Exchange Foundation (CUSEF) have emerged as a
leading funding source for several think tanks, providing financial assistance for a
variety of projects ranging from supporting book research and writing, to funding
collaborative projects, to promoting exchanges. CUSEF’s work in this area extends back
to the mid-1990s (for more on CUSEF, see the section on universities in this report).
The interviewees differ, however, in their assessments of whether CUSEF funding
reflects direct linkages with Beijing. As one analyst noted, “C.H. is a special figure
because he is half Hong Kong and half PRC.” Another commented that he currently
has the potential to undertake a joint project with C.H. Tung and will “probably do

it for the money and the contact.” Another has accepted funds for work on cultural
exchange and climate change, while yet another is far more circumspect, describing
Mt. Tung as an “open united front agent” in his capacity as vice chair of the Chinese
People’s Political Consultative Congress. Many of the partnerships CUSEF establishes in
conjunction with US think tanks represent efforts to find common ground, particularly
in line with PRC initiatives and policies, for example: “The New Model of Major Power
Relationship Research Project 2014,” “Taiwan Arms Sales Research Project 2014,” and
the “Pacific Community Initiative.”

CUSEF also funds a number of annual exchange programs, including for members of
Congress, state and local officials, historically black colleges and universities, as well as
several journalist delegations, including one for students of journalism. CUSEF often
partners with the Center for American Progress, the American Foreign Policy Council,
and the East-West Institute. However, each partnership is different. The Center for
American Progress, for example, pays its own way in its work with CUSEF, CUSEF also
funds projects with think-tank analysts who are not China scholars, such as a project
on US-China relations in the Arctic. One think-tank analyst who was involved in the
CUSEF-funded “Creating a Pacific Community” project became uncomfortable with
the overall orientation of the project and dropped out.

C.H. Tung is personally proactive, often visiting the United States and meeting with
think-tank experts. On one occasion, he encouraged an American scholar to write an
article together with a noted Chinese scholar on the South China Sea. He also offered
to establish a massive program with one institute in which the think tank would train
Chinese Party School officials on free market economics (the idea was eventually
rejected by the think tank). In addition, CUSEF has funded the publication of at least
two books in which US analysts were involved. In both cases, the analysts state that
C.H. was “hands-off” in the process. Yet, in another instance, when a US scholar
approached the CUSEF for possible funding of a major book on US-China relations,
the foundation insisted on two conditions: that half of the contributors be Chinese
scholars, and that the foundation would have the right to review the manuscript prior
to publication. The American scholar in question refused these conditions and looked
elsewhere for support.

Section5

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020526
