Though we realize this fact, the Council of Ministers has lately decided to establish the Emirates Council for
Competitiveness. Its task is to develop strategies and suggest policies and legal frameworks that can support the
competitive environment in the light of local, regional and international variables. These frameworks serve the
objective of comprehensive development, and protect the Emirates position among the most competitive states
on the international arena.

The Council consists of a number of ministers concerned with this question. It is headed by the Minister for
Cabinet Affairs, and includes the Ministers of Economy and Foreign Trade, Education, Labor, Health, the
Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, and for Financial Affairs. In addition, there are seven representatives of
administrative boards in the local governments, the chairman of the Union of Trade and Industry Chambers in
the State, Directors of Trade and Industry Chambers in Abu Dhabi and Dubai. We are confident that the
Council is able to draw strategies and legislative frames to secure the desired development of the competitive
capacity of the UAE.

By Ro’ya Al Iqtesadiah newspaper

In the first quarter of t his year, accelerating economic events have generated pessimism
about the future of the global economy and its growth. There are conflicting reports in
the assessment of the national economy, and we read some of the studies questioning the
continuation of Western-style development plans and their future in the region in light of
declining oil prices and the global crisis. What is the assessment of Your Highness on the
national economy today, can it be maintained at the level of growth in the light of the
retreat of oil prices? What is the policy that the UAE will use with regard to the latest
developments of the global financial crisis?

Our economy is strong and its potential lies in its great diversity. The proportion of oil in the UAE’s GDP is less
than 30 percent, and this reduces the impact of oil price fluctuations on the national economy. I agree with you
regarding the presence of many pessimistic reports on the world economy, but it’s an exaggerated and
unrealistic pessimism. Countries with the largest economies are seriously committed to rehabilitating the
economy, while the summit of the Group of Twenty came out with encouraging results after meeting in London
recently. Our hope is to commit ourselves to the implementation of all decisions. In fact, the negative vibrations
will decrease, and will be substituted by cautious optimism. As for the levels of growth, few states in the world
are likely to maintain high levels of growth recorded in recent years. We in the UAE wi Il achieve economic
growth rates lower than those recorded in previous years.

By Ro’ya Al Iqtesadiah newspaper

Attracting foreign investment was among the priorities of the UAE. Today, the flight of
foreign investors from the UAE is widely discussed in the media, and is supported by
both local and official reports. Does Your Highness really think that our national
economy’s dependence on foreign investment leads to future risks? In the frequent talk
about the global financial crisis, does Your Highness have new plans to strengthen,
develop or restore foreign investments to the country?

We cannot use the term flight of foreign investors because there has been no “flight.” What happened exactly
is the drought of liquidity across the world immediately after the collapse of the American investment bank,
Lehman Brothers, which marked the beginning of the global financial crisis. However, with this drought, the
compilation of available sources of liquidity became the primary concern of investors, banks, and financial
institutions throughout the world. Sizeable withdrawals, deposits and liquefaction of all financial centers

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024947
