213

12 times zones away to meet an anonymous source, Brazil also would have been a more certain
place to meet Greenwald. If some consideration by Snowden precluded Brazil as a destination,
Snowden could have also gone to Ecuador, Bolivia, Cuba, Iceland, or Venezuela, which are also
countries that do not have active extradition treaties with the United States. Yet, instead of
proceeding to a country from which he could not have been extradited, he flew to Hong Kong,
which had a vigorously enforced extradition agreement.

His reason for choosing was not to keep a previously arranged rendezvous with a journalist.
As previously mentioned, when he left Hong Kong not a single journalist had agreed to meet him
in Hong Kong. Indeed, Gellman considered Hong Kong, as he put it, “in the jurisdiction of a
country that’s unfriendly to the United States,” and notified Snowden that he would not be able
to journey to Hong Kong. Yet, even without any appointments with journalists, he chose to fly
to Hong Kong. So his choice was not based on either evading extradition or on accommodating
journalists.

He chose Hong Kong for another reason. He told Greenwald Hong Kong, as a part of China,
could provide him protection from any countermeasures by U.S. intelligence agencies. He made
that consideration clear, saying that that Snowden’s “first priority was to ensure his physical
safety from US interference.” Hong Kong “was part of China’s territories, he [Snowden]
reasoned, and American agents would find it harder to operate there than other places,” according
to Greenwald. Snowden further reckoned that China’s control over Hong Kong prevented
“American agents from breaking down the door” of the hotel room and from seizing him. Tyler
Drumheller, a former CIA station chief, told me that Snowden was correct in his assessment of
that Hong Kong advantage. Drumheller said that Hong Kong was “home court” for the Chinese
intelligence services. It played a: dominant role” in running the police, airport passport control
and security regime there. According to Drumheller, this reality limited the role that American and
British intelligence operatives could play there and Snowden would be protected in Hong Kong
against an intrusion by America. “Snowden obviously knew this from his training at the CIA,”
Drumheller said.

As the Chinese service was under no such restrictions, Snowden had gained protection at a
price. While no US or British intelligence operatives would be in a position to retrieve the NSA
files he had brought with him to Hong Kong, Chinese operatives, and their allies in the
intelligence war, would have a free hand in Hong Kong. Yet, Snowden chose to put his physical
safety in the hands of China.

One reason why Snowden may not have been overly concerned about Hong Kong’s
extradition treaty with the U.S. was that he had never intended to test it by staying in Hong Kong
after his media events. Snowden told the editor of the Guardian from the safety of Moscow,
Hong Kong was only a temporary stop over. He added in the interview that allowing himself to
become part of an extradition proceeding in the Hong Kong court was not part of his plan. If so,
the Hong Kong lawyers, who believed they had been retained pro bono to battle against
extradition, were part of a charade. Hong Kong merely was a protected stopover. The stopover
may have provided him with a further advantage. If he had gone directly to his next destination,
Moscow, and he provided the same journalists with the same documents at a press conference in
Moscow, his status as a whistle-blower might have been viewed with less sympathy in the media.
Even the Guardian, for example, might have been reluctant to publish a Moscow-based story
revealing British and American communications intelligence secrets,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020365
