associated with the loss of habitual temporal-spatial contextual moorings. A mind at
time one and the same mind at time two are unconnected. They are wholly other.

In much the same sense, for Eliade, sacred time, like space, is neither
homogenous nor linearly continuous. Sacred time is circular, recoverable and
reversible. Past, primordial, mythical time can exist in the present. Religious
festivals are recurrently ontological, allowing the recovery of the sacred time such
that their past and present expressions are the same. Rebirth is new birth. |In the
language of the North American Indian Tribe, the Yokuts, the term for world
(cosmos) and year are the same. A year and the world has gone by, only to start
again. The Dakota Tribe says that the Year goes around the World. As Elaide has
said, “...at each New Year...the world (is) recreated and to do this is also to create
time...the sick man becomes well because he begins life again with its sum of the

energy intact.” Healing by becoming

The quality of separateness, discontinuity in states, as occurs in the same-

different inside world, is much like that found in the stages of anesthesia. Each
stage of anesthesia is ganz andere from the others. In Stage | anesthesia, fast
frequency, low voltage brain waves are observed and accompanied by a two
Martini-like, mildly activated, sedated but exhilarated high. Stage //, the next deeper
stage of anesthesia, is marked by the sudden emergence of intermittent bursts of
high amplitude brain waves, and animals and man demonstrate bizarre postures,
hallucinatory phenomena, fixed staring, and sometimes movements that look like
acting out some symbolic drama. This stage marks the beginnings of the loss of
responsiveness to painful stimuli. In the sudden drop into Stage ///, a low voltage
mix of mostly slow and some fast brain waves can be seen associated with
depressed consciousness, complete insensitivity to pain, slow regular respiration
and an unexcitable cardiovascular system. Stage /V is the deepest stage of
anesthesia. This state is characterized by very low voltage, almost flat brain waves,
a loss of spontaneous breathing, the collapse of blood pressure and, finally, cardiac
irregularities and death in cardiac arrest. These are both discontinuous and global

brain state phase transitions.

135

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013635
