nikolaos.panigirtzoglou@jpmorgan.com

J.P. Morgan Securities plc

Seamus Mac Gorain

(44-20) 7134-7761
seamus.macgorain@jpmorgan.com
J.P. Morgan Securities plc

Matthew Lehmann
(44-20) 7134-7813
matthew.m.lehmann@jpmorgan.com

J.P. Morgan Securities plc

Leo Evans

(44-20) 7742-2537
leonard.a.evans@jpmorgan.com
J.P. Morgan Securities plc

If you no longer wish to receive these e-mails then click here to unsubscribe ° www.jpmorganmarkets.com

Analyst certification: I certify that: (1) all of the views expressed in this research accurately reflect my personal views about any and all of the subject
securities or issuers; and (2) no part of my compensation was, is, or will be directly or indirectly related to the specific recommendations or views
expressed herein. Important disclosures, including price charts, are available for compendium reports and all J.P. Morgan—covered companies by
visiting https://mm.jpmorgan.com/disclosures/company, calling 1-800-477-0406, or e-mailing research.disclosure.inquiries@jpmorgan.com with
your request. J.P. Morgan’s Strategy, Technical, and Quantitative Research teams may screen companies not covered by J.P. Morgan. For important
disclosures for these companies, please call 1-800-477-0406 or e-mail research.disclosure.inquiries@jpmorgan.com.

J.P. Morgan does and seeks to do business with companies covered in its research reports. As a result, investors should be aware that the firm may
have a conflict of interest that could affect the objectivity of this report. Investors should consider this report as only a single factor in making their
investment decision.

Confidentiality and Security Notice: This transmission may contain information that is privileged, confidential, legally privileged, and/or exempt
from disclosure under applicable law. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any disclosure, copying, distribution, or use
of the information contained herein (including any reliance thereon) is STRICTLY PROHIBITED. Although this transmission and any attachments
are believed to be free of any virus or other defect that might affect any computer system into which it is received and opened, it is the responsibility
of the recipient to ensure that it is virus free and no responsibility is accepted by JPMorgan Chase & Co., its subsidiaries and affiliates, as applicable,
for any loss or damage arising in any way from its use. If you received this transmission in error, please immediately contact the sender and destroy
the material in its entirety, whether in electronic or hard copy format.

This email is confidential and subject to important disclaimers and conditions including on offers for the
purchase or sale of securities, accuracy and completeness of information, viruses, confidentiality, legal
privilege, and legal entity disclaimers, available at http://www.jpmorgan.com/pages/disclosures/email.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031117
