Hamilton’s Parasite Theory

My take on Hamilton’s 1982 paper, which | consider his masterpiece, is a blend of
his thoughts, Bob Trivers’ from a decade before, Richard Alexander’s, and maybe
mine. Mine sees a population arranged in local “demes” which intrabreed in most
cases for best adaptation to local pressures including pathogens and parasites. A
local strain to which the local deme is adapted might spread to other demes which
are not. Hosts in the invaded demes become sick. Female ones there intuit the
degraded conditions, breed less often, and breed mostly females (mothers can
choose) because males with their now ill-adapted anti-parasite (histocampatability)
genes will find few willing mates. This begins the part from Trivers. I'll come to

Alexander’s later.

Mothers in the source deme see an opposite picture. Conditions are not necessarily
better than before, but they are better than in the invaded demes. They intuit this,
breed more often, and breed mostly males. The males migrate to those invaded
demes, carrying histocompatibility genes pre-adapted to the invaders, and find
willing mates there if they can show the signs. The idea that mothers choose to
breed mostly males in prosperous conditions is the other half of Trivers’ idea. The
idea that the invading parasite and the males with antidote genes might tend to

originate from the same deme may be mine.

That presupposes that females can trust the signs. Nature makes sure they can. She
provides resistant males with hard-to-feign ones to prove it. This was one of
Hamilton’s key insights. His idea has been called the “truth in advertising” theory.
Symmetrical antlers, deep croaks, accurate songs and bright colors where they
should be tell the females whose genes can be trusted. Parasites and pathogens

would fake them in afflicted host males if they could. It seems they can’t.

Hamilton, I believe, had solved three nagging puzzles at once. Why does nature

waste resources on beauty displays that seem at first glance to hinder fitness? A

Chapter 7 Petty’s Idea 2/3/16 8

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011067
