Freedom House

Chapter 5

The Rise of ‘Illiberal Democracy’

In July 2014, Hungarian prime minister Viktor Orban
gave what has come to be known as his “illiberal
democracy speech before an ethnic Hungarian audi-
ence in Baile Tusnad, Romania.! Several points in his
remarks are worth noting:

¢ Orban urged his listeners to no longer regard the
1989 triumph over communism as the reference
point for developments in Hungary. Instead of
measuring progress from the transition from
dictatorship and foreign domination to elections,
civil liberties, and sovereignty, Orban said Hungary
should adopt a new point of departure, the onset
of the global financial crisis in 2008, which also
marked the European Union’s greatest setback.

¢ He cited U.S. president Barack Obama and vari-
ous unnamed sources on the West's weakness,
including an “internationally recognized analyst
who wrote that liberal values today “embody
corruption, sex, and violence.”

« He suggested that in the future it would be
systems that were “not Western, not liberal,
not liberal democracies, and perhaps not even
democracies’ that would create successful and
competitive societies. He asserted that “the
stars of the international analysts today are
Singapore, China, India, Russia, and Turkey.”

In a passage devoted to the obstacles facing his
own political party, Fidesz, as it seeks to build an
alternative to liberalism, Orban singled out civil
society and the nongovernmental sector. Civil
society critics, he insisted, “are not nongovern-
mental organizations but “paid political activists
who are attempting to enforce foreign interests
here in Hungary.” (In a separate speech in early
2016, he referred to “hordes of implacable hu-
man rights warriors who “feel an unquenchable
desire to lecture and accuse us.’”)

In this relatively short address, Orban neatly summa-
rized most of the key factors that distinguish a fully
democratic “Western” system based on liberal values
and accountability from what he calls an “Eastern”
approach based ona strong state, a weak opposition,
and emaciated checks and balances.

“There is a race underway to find the
method of community organization,
the state, which is most capable of
making a nation and a community
internationally competitive... [T]he
most popular topic in thinking today
is trying to understand how systems
that are not Western, not liberal, not
liberal democracies, and perhaps not
even democracies, can nevertheless
make their nations successful.”

—Viktor Orban, prime minister of Hungary

“If we want to organize our national
state to replace the liberal state, it is
very important that we make it clear
that we are not opposing nongov-
ernmental organizations here, and

it is not nongovernmental organi-
zations who are moving against us,
but paid political activists who are
attempting to enforce foreign inter-
ests here in Hungary.”

—Viktor Orban

First, his exhortation to no longer regard the events of
1989 as a seminal, even sacred, juncture in Hungarian
history is noteworthy given Orban's biography. While
he often cites his own role in the anticommunist
struggle and describes himself as a freedom fighter,
he now regards 1989—so redolent of liberal values,
ideas about individual freedom, and democratic
solidarity—as an intellectual impediment to his plans
for a Hungary that is skeptical of such ideals and of
European integration.

Second, Orban included full-blown dictatorships
(Russia and China) in the roster of governments he
admires, along with quasi-democratic illiberal states
(Turkey and Singapore) and one genuine, if inconsis-
tent, democracy (India).

www.freedomhouse.org

35

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019269
