Trump did not enjoy his own inauguration. He had hoped for a big blowout. Tom Barrack,
the would-be showman—in addition to Michael Jackson’s Neverland Ranch, he had
bought Miramax Pictures from Disney with the actor Rob Lowe—may have declined the
chief of staff job, but, as part of his shadow involvement with his friend’s White House, he
stepped up to raise the money for the inaugural and to create an event that—seemingly
quite at odds with the new president’s character, and with Steve Bannon’s wish for a no-
frills populist inauguration—he promised would have a “soft sensuality” and “poetic
cadence.” But Trump, imploring friends to use their influence to nail some of the A-level
stars who were snubbing the event, started to get angry and hurt that stars were determined
to embarrass him. Bannon, a soothing voice as well as a professional agitator, tried to
argue the dialectical nature of what they had achieved (without using the word
“dialectical’’). Because Trump’s success was beyond measure, or certainly beyond all
expectations, the media and the liberals had to justify their own failure, he explained to the
new president.

In the hours before the inauguration, the whole of Washington seemed to be holding its
breath. On the evening before Trump was sworn in, Bob Corker, the Republican senator
from Tennessee and the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, opened his
remarks as the featured speaker at a gathering at the Jefferson Hotel with the existential
question, “Where are things going?” He paused for a moment and then answered, as
though from some deep well of bewilderment, “I have no idea.”

Later that evening, a concert at the Lincoln Memorial, part of an always awkward
effort to import pop culture to Washington, ended up, absent any star power, with Trump
himself taking the stage as the featured act, angrily insisting to aides that he could outdraw
any star.

Dissuaded by his staff from staying at the Trump International Hotel in Washington
and regretting his decision, the president-elect woke up on inaugural morning complaining
about the accommodations at Blair House, the official guest residence across the street
from the White House. Too hot, bad water pressure, bad bed.

His temper did not improve. Throughout the morning, he was visibly fighting with his
wife, who seemed on the verge of tears and would return to New York the next day;
almost every word he addressed to her was sharp and peremptory. Kellyanne Conway had
taken up Melania Trump as a personal PR mission, promoting the new First Lady as a
vital pillar of support for the president and a helpful voice in her own right, and was trying
to convince Trump that she could have an important role in the White House. But, in
general, the Trumps’ relationship was one of those things nobody asked too many
questions about—another mysterious variable in the presidential mood.

At the ceremonial meeting of the soon-to-be-new president and the soon-to-be-old
president at the White House, which took place just before they set off for the swearing-in
ceremony, Trump believed the Obamas acted disdainfully—“very arrogant”’—toward him

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019916
