A Single Point of Failure | 243

have been in a very different position. The story would have broken
before Poitras or Greenwald even knew about Snowden’s presence
in Hong Kong, and his identity would be secret except for whatever
foreign mission he had contacted. But, as we know, the Post turned
down his ultimatum.

Time was running out if he was to break the story and leave Hong
Kong before the NSA realized he was missing. At best, he was safe
until June 3, when he was supposed to return from his medical leave.
If he failed to show up in Hawaii on June 3, alarm bells at the NSA
would go off, and it would not take long to find him. Airline records
would show that he had flown to Hong Kong. Snowden told Poi-
tras that NSA security would ask, “This guy isn’t where he says
he’s supposed to be. He’s supposed to be getting medical treatment.
Why the hell is he in Hong Kong?” It would not take long to deter-
mine that he had lied about his medical treatment, and then the hunt
would begin.

He had, remember, already sent Poitras an enciphered file and told
her she would get the key once she followed his instructions. Green-

© wald had still not committed himself to meeting Snowden. Green- ©
wald was, however, willing to publish the documents once Snowden
provided them. That Snowden remained in Hong Kong suggests that
his reason for going to and remaining in Hong Kong went beyond
just delivering documents to journalists, which he could have done
over the Internet. What he could not do in America, without risking
arrest, was to make and release a video.

In any event, after his attempt to pressure the Post, Snowden
asked Greenwald to fly immediately to Hong Kong. Presumably, he
still wanted Greenwald’s story and the video done in Hong Kong
before he became a suspect. If Greenwald and Poitras had immedi-
ately flown to Hong Kong, it still might have left Snowden an escape
window.

But of course things do not always go as planned. Greenwald,
although agreeing to come to Hong Kong, waited in New York
for two days while the Guardian editors completed their due dili-
gence. Poitras waited with him. As a result of this delay, as we know,
Greenwald and Poitras did not arrive at his hotel in Hong Kong until
June 3, only hours before Snowden became suspect at the NSA. “It

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.indd 243 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019731
