Steven

Tyler and
Liv Tyler

Melissa
Leo

-

Jennifer
Lawrence Steve
Martin

eslie Mann
and Judd
+ Apatow

George Hamilton and
Kimberly Blackford

LWren
Scott and
Mick
Jagger

Marisa
Tomei

The Daily Mail announces Her Royal Highness Queen
Elizabeth has enjoyed a private screening of The King’s
Speech and is “moved” by the film. With no proof the Queen
has actually seen the film, press agents send out a global press
release thanking her Majesty for the endorsement.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24

Mid-day, I arrive at The Beverly Hills Hotel. As the house-
Keepers unpack my bags upstairs I peek into the Polo Lounge
and find Warren Beatty in a booth. I tell him I’m rooting for
his wife, Annette Benning, and love her film, The Kids Are All
Right. Warren says The Social Network will win.

This year I am two days late arriving to Oscar weekend. I
am shown to a very, very small room—the size of a broom
closet. Uncharacteristically, I have a slight melt down. I am
moved. The housekeepers run down the hall with my clothes
flying. The hotel is sold out, so I get someone else’s room.
Another unsuspecting victim checking in downstairs will get
the broom closet.

It is cold, grey and rainy. Taffeta, organdy and embroidered
silk evening clothes hang in my closet. I stay in my sweaters
and fur coat, and head to Arianna Huffington’s home in
Beverly Hills where she and Wendi Murdoch are hosting a
party for Tom Freston’s wife, the beautiful, blonde Kathy.
Her book is called Veganist: Lose Weight, Get Healthy, Change
the World—perfect for monks.

Arianna has just sold the Huffington Post to AOL for $315
million dollars and is rumored to have personally landed
around $20 million. She is euphoric as she greets Nicole
Kidman and Keith Urban at the door. Other drenched power
players include Disney’s Bob Iger and wife Willow Bay, Fox’s
Jim Gianopulos, Candice Bergen and journalist daughter
Chloe Malle, Google’s Eric Schmidt, Oliver Stone escorting
his daughter Tara and avoiding questions about Charlie
Sheen, Moby, Jamie Niven, Brian Grazer, Vivi Nevo, CBS’s
Les Moonves and Julie Chen, Rob Reiner, Paramount’s Brad
Grey and fiancé Cassandra Huysentruyt and Jeff Bezos.
Hors d’oeuvres include pigs in blankets—a food group not
mentioned in Kathy’s book.

The action migrates to UTA Jim Burkus’ home for a party
for True Grits Ethan and Joel Coen. I pass Ron Howard on
the way in and he says, “Keep me on your list.” Is he kidding?
Sunrise and Mark Ruffalo, Focus Feature’s James Shamus,
Nancy Meyers and John Goldwyn mingle. Adorable Hallie

Steinfeld is there with her parents. I am trying to fix her up
with Justin Bieber. She giggles, “Peg, I am only 14.”

I am face to face with Harrison Ford and stupidly tell him
I love him in Morning Glory. He’s looking at me in utter
disbelief, but I will not shut up. A gorgeous guy is inches away
in a hat and glasses. I whisper to Harrison, “That looks just
like Johnny Depp.” Harrison rolls his eyes and. reluctantly
introduces me to his friend .. . Johnny Depp. I babble a bit
about his great work then run for cover in a corner next to my
buddy, Jerry Bruckheimer.

I head over to the CAA/Bryan Lourd’s “Friday Night
Party.” Torrential rains and horrific winds cause a traffic jam Stephen Gaghan and Hammer

that makes it impossible to get near the house. The world’s ee
most famous faces cower under black umbrellas and makea [Uy
run for it. Bryan Lourd and Bruce Bozzi receive friends at the
door all night.
Inside, Uma Thurman tells me she finally moved into a | me
doorman building in New York after being terrorized by | A
|

stalkers for years. Ben Walker talks about Abraham Lincoln:
Vampire Hunter, which he is about to shoot, while his fiancé,
Mamie Gummer, looks sexy shivering in a white satin gown.

Charlize
Theron

Producer Jon Kilik mentions he oversaw a new cut of Julian a
Schnabel’s Miral, to be released in March. Bennett Miller, F
standing with Kristin Gore, says Sony loves his new film, ¢ § 43 F 4
Moneyball, and Brad Pitt is terrific. (When is Brad Pitt not ae
terrific?) Sandy Gallin tells me he has an actual job i 7
decorating Jeffrey Katzenberg’s home. I congratulate Barry _
Levinson’s son Sam, a director, for winning the writing ea
award at Sundance for his first film, Another Happy Day.
Also seen floating around are Taylor Swift and Jake
Gyllenhaal—but not together—Sean Penn, Tom Cruise and
Katie Holmes, Anderson Cooper, Hilary Swank, Kelly Ripa, of sts
Paul Haggis, Marisa Tomei, Kate Beckinsale, Demi Moore ae A ‘a, ~~ Betkinsalé
and Ashton Kutcher, Kate Hudson, Gerard Butler, Renee ; h
Zellweger with Bradley Cooper, Biutiful director Alejandro
Gonzalez-Inarritu, Kathryn Bigelow and Mark Boal, Ellen
Barkin (who is headed to Broadway in The Normal Heart this
spring) and CAA’s Kevin Huvane, Richard Lovett and Hylda
Queally. Sony Classic’s Michael Barker tells me The Social
Network will win. fn ard
Tired celebs try to go home, but limo lock is at a standstill. Johansson
Cell phones don’t work in the area. Two hundred swells
become party prisoners and happily hang out till 5 a.m.

SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 26

Out comes the sun and dries up all the rain. [AC chair-
men and owner of Newsweek/The Daily Beast Barry Diller
and his wife Diane Von Furstenberg (with her kids Alex
and Tatiana) host their 15th annual lunch for Graydon
Carter in their Coldwater Canyon home. Barry introduces
me to his star guest, Gov. Jerry Brown, just elected to his
third (nonconsecutive) term as California governor.

Like last year, enormous clear plastic tents are erected
on the hill near the house. Long wooden picnic tables sit
on oriental rugs covering the soggy ground. VIPs wears
winter clothes, comfy sweaters and sensible shoes. I arrive

in a fur coat.
Aaron Sorkin
Lourdes Leon
and Madonna

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012701
