Business Expansion Portfolio and Prospectus
Twin City Care of The Virgin Islands
13

All calls received after hours, will be answered by the COO / Director and / or Supervisor and
immediately ran by the two of them if it cannot be scheduled.

A billing / collection Director will handle all billing. This employee will be paid a salary and a
percentage of the daily collections with accurate billings. This will be the driving incentive to do
a superior job and keep the revenues high.

Public Relations / Advertising

Through research, it has been recognized many organizations fail to realize that there are three (3)
customers in this business. The customer that rides on the stretcher deservers friendly and efficient
service. The second customer is the facility requesting patient transport. The third customers are
the staff that transports the clients in a timely, professional and courteous atmosphere. These
customers deserve prompt quality service as well as friendly and efficient service.

It has been found through research, that the company that makes public relations Priority One has
been very successful. With the healthcare profession being a tight circle of professionals, the word
will quickly spread of the fast, friendly, and efficient service that is being provided. Once this
reputation is established, and maintained, the advertising will be a part of each associates daily
activities and duties.

Twin City Mobile Integrated Health Services will also align itself with organizations, whose
clients will utilize our service. Such organizations would be local Hospice, Rehabilitation, Casino,
Hotels, Cruise Lines and Retirement Groups. The company would also be joining other
professional organizations such as the Chamber of Commerce, American Ambulance Association,
National Association of EMTs and Rotary Club.

Twin City Mobile Integrated Health Services will also provide Community paramedicine (CP)
which is an emerging healthcare profession. It allows paramedics and emergency medical
technicians (EMTs) to operate in expanded roles to provide healthcare services to underserved
populations. It is a way to improve rural emergency medical services (EMS) as well as address the
healthcare needs of the community.

Some rural patients lack access to primary care, and misuse 911 services in an attempt to access
emergency departments for routine healthcare. This is demanding on EMS personnel in rural areas
and causes strains on the workforce. Working in a primary care role, our community paramedics
can meet the needs of such individuals, as well as others in the community, in a more efficient and
proactive way.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029488
