premise: Test the most basic assumptions of the work-life equation.

e » How do your decisions change if retirement isn’t an option?

e > What if you could use a mini-retirement to sample your deferred-
life plan reward before working 40 years for it?

e » Is it really necessary to work like a slave to live like a millionaire?

Little did I know where questions like these would take me.

The uncommon conclusion? The commonsense rules of the “real world” are a fragile collection of
socially reinforced illusions. This book will teach you how to see and seize the options others do not.

What makes this book different?

First, ’'m not going to spend much time on the problem. I’m going to assume you are suffering from
time famine, creeping dread, or—worst case—a tolerable and comfortable existence doing something
unfulfilling. The last is most common and most insidious.

Second, this book is not about saving and will not recommend you abandon your daily glass of red
wine for a million dollars 50 years from now. Id rather have the wine. I won’t ask you to choose
between enjoyment today or money later. I believe you can have both now. The goal is fun and profit.

Third, this book is not about finding your “dream job.” I will take as a given that, for most people,
somewhere between six and seven billion of them, the perfect job is the one that takes the least time. The
vast majority of people will never find a job that can be an unending source of fulfillment, so that is not
the goal here; to free time and automate income is.

I OPEN EACH class with an explanation of the singular importance of being a “dealmaker.” The manifesto
of the dealmaker is simple: Reality is negotiable. Outside of science and law, all rules can be bent or
broken, and it doesn’t require being unethical.

The DEAL of deal making is also an acronym for the process of becoming a member of the New
Rich.

The steps and strategies can be used with incredible results—whether you are an employee or an
entrepreneur. Can you do everything I’ve done with a boss? No. Can you use the same principles to
double your income, cut your hours in half, or at least double the usual vacation time’? Most definitely.

Here is the step-by-step process you'll use to reinvent yourself:

D for Definition turns misguided common sense upside down and introduces the rules and objectives of
the new game. It replaces self-defeating assumptions and explains concepts such as relative wealth and

eustress.+ Who are the NR and how do they operate? This section explains the overall lifestyle design
recipe —the fundamentals —before we add the three ingredients.

E for Elimination kills the obsolete notion of time management once and for all. It shows exactly how I
used the words of an often-forgotten Italian economist to turn 12-hour days into two-hour days ... in 48
hours. Increase your per-hour results ten times or more with counterintuitive NR techniques for
cultivating selective ignorance, developing a low-information diet, and otherwise ignoring the
unimportant. This section provides the first of the three luxury lifestyle design ingredients: time.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013807
