James PATTERSON

19. In addition to constantly finding underage girls to

satisfy their personal desires, Epstein and Maxwell also got

girls for Epstein's friends and acquaintances. Epstein specifi-
cally told me that the reason for him doing this was so that
uld “owe him,” they would “be in his pocket,” and he

they wo
rstood that Epstein

would “have something on them.” I unde
thought he could get leniency if he was ever caught doing
anything illegal, or that he could escape trouble altogether.

Roberts submitted her declaration in support of a motion to
g, as of this writing) that

be added as a plaintiff in a suit (ongoin
ment that Jeffrey

sought to overturn a non-prosecution agree

Epstein would reach with the government. Roberts was seeking

to join a case brought against the government by two other vic-
but a judge denied her motion in April of 2015, explaining

tims,
g for several years, and it

- that the case had already been pendin
was unneccesary to add an additional plaintiff.

Roberts's declaration, which goes on for another eight pages, and
four additional points, was stricken from the record—

makes twenty-
“lurid” and “unnecessary details”

the judge explained that the
involving “non-parties” to the lawsuit against the government, were
«i qamaterial and impertinent” to the proceedings.

Through a representative, Ghislaine Maxwell called the

allegations against her
defamation suit against Maxwell. In an answer filed in the suit,
Maxwell elaborated that Roberts's

Ms. Maxwell” was “fabricated” for financial gain.

138

“gbvious lies,” after which Roberts fileda 7

’s “story of abuse al the hands of :

Alicia: May 20, 1997

onald Trump's instin
Ey solid. But if the repe
into Epstein’s myster:
ther, there’s a chance they we
‘Rot just in Palm Beach.
4 In California, for instan
; from the Santa Monica Police
f In the spring —almost the
q the police. The young woman 1
| appeared on Baywatch and Gei
E ally assaulted at a trendy hotel
The officer who took th

: licia* —and her voice. A w

i

* Alic i ifyi
a ia’s name, some identifying (

oe

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021994
