110 6 A Brief Overview of CogPrime

only scant feedback from human teachers. If successful, this will provide an outstanding platform
for ongoing AGI development, as well as a visually appealing and immediately meaningful demo
for OpenCog.

Specific, particularly simple tasks that are the focus of this project team’s current work at
time of writing include:

e Watch another character build steps to reach a high-up object

e Figure out via imitation of this that, in a different context, building steps to reach a high
up object may be a good idea

e Also figure out that, if it wants a certain high-up object but there are no materials for
building steps available, finding some other way to get elevated will be a good idea that
may help it get the object

6.3.1 Transitioning from Virtual Agents to a Physical Robot

Preliminary experiments have also been conducted using OpenCog to control a Nao robot as well
as a virtual dog [GdGO08]. This involves hybridizing OpenCog with a separate (but interlinked)
subsystem handling low-level perception and action. In the experiments done so far, this has
been accomplished in an extremely simplistic way. How to do this right is a topic treated in
detail in Chapter 26 of Part 2.

We suspect that reasonable level of capability will be achievable by simply interposing DeS-
TIN (or some other system in its place) as a perception /action “black box” between OpenCog
and a robot. Some preliminary experiments in this direction have already been carried out, con-
necting the OpenPetBrain to a Nao robot using simpler, less capable software than DeSTIN in
the intermediary role (off-the-shelf speech-to-text, text-to-speech and visual object recognition
software).

However, we also suspect that to achieve robustly intelligent robotics we must go beyond this
approach, and connect robot perception and actuation software with OpenCogPrime in a “white
box” manner that allows intimate dynamic feedback between perceptual, motoric, cognitive
and linguistic functions. We will achieve this via the creation and real-time utilization of links
between the nodes in CogPrime’s and DeSTIN’s internal networks (a topic to be explored in
more depth later in this chapter).

6.4 Memory Types and Associated Cognitive Processes in CogPrime

Now we return to the basic description of the CogPrime approach, turning to aspects of the
relationship between structure and dynamics. Architecture diagrams are all very well, but,
ultimately it is dynamics that makes an architecture come alive. Intelligence is all about learning,
which is by definition about change, about dynamical response to the environment and internal
self-organizing dynamics.

CogPrime relies on multiple memory types and, as discussed above, is founded on the premise
that the right course in architecting a pragmatic, roughly human-like AGI system is to handle
different types of memory differently in terms of both structure and dynamics.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013026
