of local media, our response is to continue on our path of hard work and to highlight our achievements.
Ongoing development has always and will remain a key objective to our local media; however, we will not
allow anyone to drag us to media confrontations. Our policies and procedures are clear, transparent, and always
in the end, truth will prevail and will defeat all rumors.

Al Emarat Al Youm:

The UAE government has taken notable measures in combating corruption, referring
senior officials to court. Are there further steps the government intends to undertake in
the same regards? And does Your Highness believe that an independent watchdog body
might be needed to audit governmental and semi-governmental organizations?

The UAE has efficient independent watchdog bodies that include the federal State Audit Institution, as well as
local auditing departments. I’ve visited the State Audit Institution lately where I was updated on its activities.
I’ve given directives to revamp its systems and provide all necessary tools to enhance its performance. Sy
stems and processes of the Dubai Financial Audit Department are also being reviewed and enhanced. Besides,
there are other auditing bodies that operate under the Rulers’ Courts across the seven Emirates.

Al Emarat Al Youm:

Your Highness received His Highness Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the
President of the UAE, in Dubai last week, and escorted His Highness on a tour that
included key landmark developments across the Emirate. What was the significance of
this visit?

I meet with His Highness Sheikh Khalifa on regular basis. We are companions on our journey of development,
and he is our Leader and our President. Dubai is his home and he is most welcome at anytime. The visit comes
in line with His Highness’ ongoing follow up on development efforts across the seven Emirates. He is always
keen on meeting his people across the country to listen to their views and ensure their own welfare.

As a matter of fact, all His Highness visits to Dubai are important. His latest visit was significantly important as
he toured Dubai’s new landmarks, expressing his satisfaction at Dubai’s milestone achievements. He was also
very keen on visiting “Dar Al Ittihad” (the Union House) where establishment of the United Arab Emirates
federation was proclaimed. The visit was in honor of this remarkable achievement.

Questions by Al Shorouk Egyptian Daily

Arab funds, particularly GCC ones, have suffered big investment losses in international
markets due to the global financial crisis. Sovereign Arab funds have also lost a lot of
their money. How did the UAE benefit from this tough lesson, and does it intend to direct
more money into Arab markets? Are there any plans to direct part of this money into

Egypt

[Message clipped]

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024957
