As glad as I am that my upbringing was not stereotypically sexually repressed, I have to
say that I envy my friend his easy personal integration of BDSM.

2. 1 wish this point had been made, over and over: You might consider being careful
with sex.

I recently read an excellent New Yorker article that reviews the new version of The Joy of
Sex. It talks about the time when The Joy of Sex came out, as well as a similar
contemporary feminist book, Our Bodies, Ourselves, and it points out that both books
espoused the (distinctly seventies) notion that sex could be a value-neutral experience, as
natural as eating.”

Value-neutral: that's a great way to describe the overall attitude about sex that I
absorbed. As if sex were something I could do as an amusing diversion, with anyone, at
any time, and it would always be fun fun fun! As if there was no need to be overly careful
or sensitive -- sex was just a game I could play, like a sport -- where the worst that would
happen if I screwed up might be a skinned knee.

I wish that there had been an emphasis on how emotions can really matter, when it
comes to sex. I wish that there had been acknowledgment of the fact that we can really
hurt ourselves, and others, when we're cavalier about sex. (Not that we always do -- but
we can.) I wish I had understood sooner that sex is not always value-neutral; that
everyone has all manner of different sexual needs and hangups, anxieties and strong
emotions. I think maybe there are people out there who can have value-neutral sex --
where it's totally about physicality and nothing more -- but I am not like that, and I
suspect that most people are not.

Which isn't to say that I think there's anything wrong with people who can have sex that's
value-neutral. (And maybe value-neutral” is not a great term for it; I worry that I
sound like I'm judging when I use that term.) I just don't think it's a good model for
everyone, and yet I think that it has somewhat been promoted as if everyone ought to
be that way.

I think that there are lots of people out there who feel as though the sexual liberation
movement failed or betrayed them, because they convinced themselves that sex is
value-neutral and then got hurt. You see a lot of assertions along these lines in the
conservative media -- for instance, here's a quotation from a synopsis of the book
Modern Sex:

The 1960s sexual revolution made a big promise: if we just let go of our inhibitions, we'll
be happy and fulfilled. Yet sexual liberation has made us no happier and, if anything, less
fulfilled. Why?... sex today is increasingly mechanical and without commitment -- a
department of plumbing, hygiene, or athletics rather than a private sphere for the
creation of human meaning. The result: legions of unhappy adults and confused
teenagers deprived of their innocence, on their way not to maturity but to
disillusionment.... These beautifully written essays -- on subjects ranging from the TV
show Sex and the City to teen sex to the eclipse of the manly ideal to the benefits of
marriage -- add up to the deepest, most informative appraisal we have of how and why
the sexual revolution has failed.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018462
