26

organizations or identifiable leaders, and the opposition’s ideological
focus is unclear, beyond slogans calling for an end to corruption and
repression.

Optimists see this as an implicit acceptance of democratic values and
assumptions. Despite the increasingly desperate efforts of the
region’s authoritarian governments to keep their people in the dark
about the realities of the outside world by restricting information, the
younger generation identifies with its peers in the liberal West and it
knows what it is missing in access to material and educational
benefits as well as civil and democratic rights. The problem is that
while the Facebook generation knows what it doesn’t like, it is far
from clear that there are structures in place, or being planned, that
could provide the basis for an alternative political system if the
regime collapses. Pessimists envisage a scenario encapsulated in the
phrase “one man, one vote, one time” leading to a Salafist takeover
and a settling of scores against minorities (including Christians) who
were protected by the regime or benefited from its pluralist approach.
More than 70 percent of the Syrian population are Sunni.

How did Syria come to this pass? While some observers see in recent
events a parallel with 1989, with the break-up of the East
European-style system introduced by the Baathists in the 1960s, this
is no velvet revolution, nor is Syria like Jaruzelski’s Poland. The
regime’s violence is not ideological. It is far from being the result of
an emotional or philosophical commitment to a party that long ago
abandoned its agenda of promoting secular Arab republican values
and aspirations. The regime’s ruthless attachment to power lies in a
complex web of tribal loyalties and networks of patronage
underpinned by a uniquely powerful religious bond.

The Alawis of Syria, who make up only 12 percent of its population,
split from the main branch of Shiism more than a thousand years ago.
Before the twentieth century they were usually referred to as

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030085
