Date: 7/13/06 — ' PALM BEACH POLICE DEPARTMENT
Time: 9:27:55 Incident Report Program: CMS301L
Case No. .. . : 1-05-000368 (Continued)

Upon f | s entry in the unmarked Detective vehicle, I placed a tape
recorder within the vehicle to record any conversations within the
vehicle. During the ride back to the police station, ERR advised
she is attending Palm Beach Community College at the Palm Beach
Gardens Campus and is majoring in journalism.

Upon our arrival at the police station, HEB was brought to the
interview room in the Detective Bureau. I explained to 3x that IT
appreciated her willingness to assist us‘and informed her that should
she desire to leave at any time she may do so. I further explained
the interview room door is only closed for privacy. stated she
understood. During the taped sworn_interview, HBB was asked how
she came in contact with Epstein. [EBBBNNMM stated back when she turned
17 years of age she was approached by a friend Molly in the Canopy
Beach Resort in Rivera Beach. — was asked if she wanted to make
money.

She was told she would have to provide a massage and should make
$200.00. - thought about the offer and agreed to meet with
Jeffrey. (Unknown last name) and Tony (Unknown last name)
picked her up and she was taken to Epstein's house. Upon her arrival
at the house, she was introduced to Epstein in the kitchen of the
house. She was also introduced to a white female known to her as
MMMM. She was led upstairs to the main bedroom known to her as Jeff
Epstein s bedroom. [EJ arranged the massage table and covered the
table with a sheet. She brought out the massage oils and laid them
next to the massage bed. [JRRJ then left the room and informed her
Jef£ would be in a minute. Jeff entered the bedroom wearing only a
towel. He lay on the table onto his stomach and_picked massage oil
for FRM to rub on him. During the massage, an stated, He tried
to touch me and I stopped him. I asked how he tried to touch her. He
grabbed her buttocks and she felt uncomfortable. [J also stated
Epstein has a vibrator, which is large and white in color.
told Epstein, I'll massage you but I don't want to be touched. Hii
stated she performed the massage naked. At the conclusion of the
massage, Epstein paid MBB $200.00 for the massage. He explained, I
know you re-not comfortable, but I'll pay you if you bring some girls. bé6
He told her the younger the better. [ERR stated she once tried to b7¢c
bring a 23-year-old female and Epstein stated that the female was too
Bra __Aieee how many girls she brought in total to Epstein.
stated six that she can remember. stated she brought

and the victim in this case.

I asked MEN which one was the youngest. [EBB advised the victim
was the youngest. MBB stated every girl she brought knew what to
expect when they arrived. They were told they would provide a
massage, possibly naked, and some touching. I asked her if the victim
was aware. She stated every girl she brought knew what to expect.

She explained she knew the victim wanted to make money. She
approached the victim and explained about going to work for Jeff. The

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018981
