respect of any matters relating to dealing in securities or provision of specific advice on securities. Singapore reci
pore) Pte Ltd in respect of any ma

Limited (Merchant Bank) and/o

his report may be used or reproduced or quoted ina

financial advice regarding the a
hat statements regarding futu

General Investment Related Disclosures:
Taiwan Readers: Neither the information nor any opinion expressed herein constitutes

This research report provides general information on
other financial instrument or any derivative related to such securities or instruments (e
personal investment advice and it does not take into account

r Merrill Lynch (Singa

ppropriateness of investing in

ny manner whatsoever in Taiwan by the press or any other p
ly. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed consti

inancial instruments and
re prospects may not be realized. Any decision to purchase or subscribe for securities in any o

an offer or a solicitation o

utes an offer or an invitation

implementing investmen

security or the information in the prospectus or other offering document issued in connection with such offering, and not on this report.

Securities and other financial instruments discussed in this re

deposits or other obligations 0

among others, market risk, counterparty default risk and liquid

instruments may be difficult to
income from such secu
lose their entire principal inves
This report may contain a shor
short-term price impact on the
reflects both a longer term
be more or less positive than a
Futures and options are not
disclosure documents.
BofA Merri
action may
executing any short idea contai
Foreign currency rates of excha
including ADRs, e
UK Readers: The
located outside o

| Lynch is aware tha

protections pr

ota

appropria

fectively assume currency risk.
by the U.K. regulatory regime, including the Financial Services Scheme, co not a

any insured depository institution (including, Bank o

ment. Past performance is not necessarily a guide to
-term
equity
| return expectation and attractiveness for investmen
stock's fundamental equity rating.

the implemen

ned in this report.
nge may adversely affect

ovided
h Global Researc|

port, or recommended, oft

any, may fluctuate and that price or value of such
uture performance. Levels a
racing idea or recommendation, which highlights a specific near-term cata

securities of the issuer. Short-term trading ideas and recommendations are dif

port may depend upon an in

he value, price or income of any security or financial ins

ered or sold by Merrill Lynch, are not

e for all investors.

lyst or even

relative to other stocks within i

e for all investors. Such financial instruments may expire worthless. Before investing in futures or options, clients must receive the a
nvestment strategies explained in this report may not be appropriate at all times. Costs o
ation of the ideas expressed in this re
be limited by regulations prohibiting or restricting shortselling’ in many jurisdictions. Investors are urged

suc

an offer to transact in any securities or o
erson without the express written consen

.2., options, futures, warrants, and contracts for differences). TI
he specific investment objectives, financial situation and the particular needs of any specific
strategies discussed or recommended in
fering must be based solely on

insured by the Federal Deposi
America, N.A}. Investments in general anc, derivatives, in particular, involve numerous risks, including,
ity risk. No security, financial instrument or derivative is suitab
value or sell and reliable information about the value or risks related to the securi
rities and other financial instruments, i

y or financial instrument may be di
securities and instruments may rise or fal
nd basis for taxation may change.
impacting the issuer or the market that is an
erent from and do not affect a stock's fundamental equity rating, which
s Coverage Cluster. Short-term trading ideas and recommendations may

rument mentioned in this report. Investors in such secuti

pply in general to business coordinated by BofA Merri

MLPF&S or one o

the United Kingdom. BofA Merrill Lyne
its affiliates is a regular issuer of traded financial instru

h policies relating to conflicts of interest are described at http://go.bo

pients of this research report should contact Merrill Lynch International Bank
ters arising from, or in connection with, this research report.

her financial instrument. No part of
of BofA Merrill Lynch.

to make an offer, to buy or sell any securities or
his report is not intended to provide
person. Investors should seek

his report and should understand
existing public information on such

nsurance Corporation and are not

In some cases, securities and other financial
ficult to obtain. Investors should note that
and, in some cases, investors may

icipated to have a

ppropriate risk

h strategies do not include commission or margin expenses.
vestor's ability to short securities or other financial instruments and that such
o seek advice regarding the applicability of such regu

ations prior to

ies and instruments,

I Lynch entities
a.com/col.

ments linked to securities that may have been recommended in this report. MLPF&S or one of its affiliates may, at any

time, hold a trading position (long or short) in the securities and financial

BofA Merrill Lynch, throug
with, and reach different c
me
recipient of this report.

In the event that the recip

therewith MLPF&S may be deemed
beyond the delivery of this report (unless otherwise agreed 5
transactions, including transactions i

hods of the persons who prepared them, and BofA Merri

h business units other than Bo
onclusions from, the information presented in

ient received this report pursuant to a contract
pecifically in

nany securities mentioned in this report.

Copyright and General Information regarding Research Reports:

Copyright 2016 Bank of America Cor
iOcustom®, iQdatabase® are registered service marks of Ban

retransmitted or disclosed
simultaneously to interna

review of this research report consti

(including any investmen
Materials p

BofA Merri
research re
should
any Bo
on pub

| Lynch Global
ports. To t
consult their ow!
A Merrill Lynch en
ic information. Fac

=)

professionals in other busi

This re
securi
Globa
repor'
Any in
seek tax advice based
The information herein (o
may contain links to third-
contai
any affiliation with BofA

ies. None of M
Research policy pro
containing suc

ormation relating to the tax s

or manner, without
als by BofA

, in whole or in part, or in any form
and client websites and other por

recommendations, estimates or price targets) without

repared by BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research personnel are based on
information known to, professionals in other business areas of BofA Merri
Research and certain business groups. As a resul
he extent this report discusses any legal proceeding or issues, it has not been prepared as nor is it intended to express any legal conclusion, opinion or advice. Investors
egal advisers as to issues of law relating to the subject matter of this report. BofA Merrill Lynch Glo

, BofA

ity and/or its directors, officers and employees may be
§ and views presented in this material that rela

her than disclosure information relating to BofA Merril

es is not part o
h. Access to any

errill Lyne

e to any such
ness areas of BofA Merrill Lynch in connection with the legal proceedings or matters relevant to such proceedings.

port has been prepared independently of any issuer of securities mentioned herein and not in connection with any proposed offering of securities or as agent of
LPF&S, any of i

instruments discussed in this report.
‘A Merrill Lynch Global Research, may have issued and may in the future issue trading ideas or recommenda
his report. Such ideas or recommendations reflect the different time
| Lynch is under no obligation to ensure that such other trading ideas or recommendations are brought

between the recipient and MLPF&S for the provision of research services for a separate fee,
o be acting as an investment adviser, such status relates, if at all, solely to the person with whom MLPF&S
writing by MLPF&S). MLPF&S is and continues to act solely as a broker-dealer in connection

poration. All rights reserved. iQmethod, iQmethod 2.0, iQprofile, iQtoolkit, iQworks are service marks of Ban
of America Corporation. This research report is prepared for the use of BofA Merri
Lynch. BofA Merril
errill Lynch and are not publicly-available materials. Any unautl
utes your agreement not to redistribute, retransmi

he express written consent of BofA Merril

, or disclose to others the contents,
first obtaining expressed permission from
public information. Facts and views presen

errill Lynch does not disclose certain client relationsh

plaintiffs, defendants, co-defendants or co-plaintiffs wi

proceedings have not been reviewed by, discuss

s affiliates or their research analysts has any authority whatsoever to make any representation or warranty on behalf of the issuer(s}. Bo
hibits research personnel from disclosing a recommendation, investment rating, or investment thesis for review by an issuer prior to the pub
h rating, recommendation or investment thesis.
atus of financial instruments discussed herein is not intended to provide tax advice or to be used by anyone to provide tax advice.
on their particular circumstances from an independent tax professional.
Lynch and its affiliates) was obtained from various sources and we do not guarantee its accuracy. This report
party websites. BofA Merrill Lynch is not responsible for the content of any third-party website or any linked content contained in a third-par'
ned on such third-party websi this report and is not incorporated by reference into this report. The inclusion of a link in this report does not imply any
third-party website is at your own risk, and you should always review the terms and privacy policies at third-party

opinions, conclusion, or information con
an authorized officer of BofA Merrill Lynch.
ed in this material
| Lynch, including investment banking personnel. BofA Merrill

jons that are inconsistent
rames, assumptions, views and analytical
‘0 the attention of any

and in connection
ly and does not extend
with the execution of any

has contracted direct

of America Corporation. iQanalytics®,

| Lynch clients and may not be redistributed,
Lynch Global Research reports are distributed
use or disclosure is prohibited. Receipt and
ained in this report

horized

have not been reviewed by, and may not reflect
Lynch has established information barriers between
ips with, or compensation received from, such issuers in

bal Research personnel’s knowledge of legal proceedings in which

h or involving issuers mentioned in this report is based
ed with, and may not reflect information known to,

any issuer of any
A Merrill Lynch
ication of a research

nvestors are urged to

bsite. Content
endorsement by or
es before

y we

websi

submitting any personal in
Certain outstanding reports ma
recent research report rela

In some cases, an issuer may be classified as Restric

its security and/or financia
financial instruments} nor shou
solicit purchases of securities o

ormation to them. BofA

instruments) to be suspended or withdrawn and shou

errill Lynch is not responsib
y contain discussions and/or investment opinions

ld the analyses or opinion(s} be considered a solici
r financial instrumen

e for such terms and privacy policies and expressly disclaims any liability for them.

relating to securities, financial instruments and/or issuers that are no longer curren
ing to an issuer prior to making an investment decision.
ed or may be Under Review or Extended Review. In each case, investors should consider any investment opinion relating to such issuer (or
dnot rely on the analyses and investment opinion(s} pertaining to such issuer (or i
ation of any kind. Sales persons and financial advisors affiliated with MLPF&S or any of its affiliates may not
s that are Restricted or Under Review and may only solicit securities under Extended Review in accordance with

. Always refer to the most

5 securities and/or

irm policies.

Neither BofA Merrill Lynch nor any officer or employee of BofA Merrill Lynch accepts any liability whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential damages or losses arising from any use of

this report or its contents.

26 Global Equity Volat

ility Insights | 09 August 2016

BankofAmerica <2”
Merrill Lynch

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026003
