time I'm really serious about someone, I guess. Monogamy isn't necessary for these
things, but it would definitely make doing them less complicated.

+ Societal acceptance. Straight up, monogamy is the Western societal default. In some
ways this makes monogamy hard to understand and communicate about -- because there
are SO many assumptions and built-in expectations, and folks don't always agree on those
expectations! A recent study found that 40% of young couples don't agree about whether
or not they're monogamous. That amazes me, because I have never assumed that I was
monogamous with a partner until we had a conversation establishing that we were
monogamous... but I guess I can see how it happens, if people feel anxious about
communicating and fall back on assumptions instead.

Usually, however, being the societal default makes monogamy easier. Heterosexual
monogamous people can get married with no problem, for example, and while marriage
is obviously contested territory for non-hets, it's instructive that gay marriage” is such a
big political issue (while polyamorous marriage is currently nothing more than a
specter right-wingers use to scare people about gay marriage). Outsiders usually assume
that you're monogamous when you introduce your partner. Romantic comedies exalt
monogamy; the media, and many people around us, associate monogamy with love.
When you're monogamous, you never have to articulate your weird relationship structure
to your parents. You rarely have to think outside the box about relationship problems, and
you can go to any Western advice columnist or therapist and be sure that they'll recognize
your relationship as legitimate. (Those of you who like privilege checklists might enjoy
this monogamous privilege checklist, which is patterned after Peggy McIntosh's classic

essay and white privilege checklist.)

+ Some people just like it better. Occasionally, people will toy with the idea of an
“orientational” element to polyamory or monogamy: some folks just plain feel aligned
with monogamy or non-monogamy. (I have similar thoughts about this as I do about
BDSM as a sexual orientation.)

Personally, I always think it's really key, during any sex-positive critique, to emphasize
from the start that whatever you like is cool as long as the actions you take are
consensual. I know people who act all apologetic for being monogamous, usually because
they've been overexposed to polyvangelists who argue that non-monogamy is better
or more evolved. This is silly! Liking monogamy doesn't have to be justified, as long as
you don't turn around and claim that non-monogamy is bad and wrong. And liking
monogamy is a perfectly awesome reason for preferring monogamy!

KK Ok

This can be found on the Internet at:

http://clarissethorn.com/blog/2011/06/09/in-praise-of-monogamy/

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018605
