148 Teaching Minds

Similarly, these people probably can influence one another, work
in teams, and negotiate with one another to some extent. They may
not be great at it, but we wouldn’t characterize the ability to influence
others well as a sign of intelligence. Many world leaders are very influ-
ential but not all of those are considered to be brilliant.

Similarly, the ability to be a good team player is no way considered
to be a sign of intelligence. Some very bright people have difficulty
working with others. These things are not signs of intelligence.

Modeling and experimentation ability aren’t really important
when we talk about intelligence. Experimentation is something scien-
tists do. Children and chefs and nonscientists do it as well, of course.
But we wouldn't criticize these interviewees if it turned out that they
didn’t know how to experiment. We certainly have no idea from these
interviews whether they can experiment or not. We can guess that
they cannot. We tend to think that experimentation is the province
of brilliant people, but would we say that someone is unintelligent
because they don’t know how to conduct a real experiment? Or, that
a chef is brilliant because he takes risks with food? (We may say that
he is a brilliant chef, but that doesn’t mean we think he is brilliant.)
Experimentation has a lot to do with innovation, which is certainly
related to intelligence, but, again, it really is not what we think about
when we hear interviews and think that the people being interviewed
are stupid.

Similarly, we don’t know whether these folks can effectively create
a model of the world. It seems a good guess that they cannot, but, yet
again, this lies more within the province of science and very intel-
ligent thinking than within our everyday definition of intelligence.
Some very smart people have weird models of the world or no model
of certain aspects of the world.

We do not think that the interviewees are stupid because they
don’t conduct experiments or create elaborate world models.

But a different story emerges when we look at the rest of the cogni-
tive processes, Which of the remaining processes are clearly missing in
the answers supplied by the interviewees above?

Obviously these people don’t speak particularly well.

Being able to aptly describe your views, or describe a situation you
have been in, or a thought you have had, is a hallmark of intelligence.

We judge people’s intelligence, at least in part, by how well they
speak.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023894
