But the portents are not good. Despite the rhetoric, President Obama conducts himself
as an arbitrator or mediator between the competing strands of American economic and
political ideology. He repeatedly eschews striking out, snatching the naked flame and
hanging on. But the cost of this strategy is not simply a cost to him; it is a cost to the
whole world.

On the other hand, Chancellor Merkel is the archetypal worry-wart. She does not lead;
she assesses.

“You really wonder why leaders want these jobs when they really do not want to lead.
And what is their risk? That Barack Obama will not get a second term? Or that Angela
Merkel's coalition might finally end up on the rocks? If they actually made the leap they
might astound themselves. Because, in the end, everyone in political life gets carried out
- the only relevant question is whether the pallbearers will be crying.

For Keating, the 20th-century leader exerting most influence on the coming century is
China's Deng Xiaoping.

If you look at the other figures of the century, Roosevelt, Churchill, Stalin and Mao, none
will leave the legacy in terms of the 21st century that Deng leaves, he says. He walked

away from the ideology of the Communist Party just as effectively as Mikhail Gorbachev

walked away from the essence of the Soviet Union.

By 2050 Keating sees a world order with nations in terms of gross domestic product in
this hierarchy: (1) China, (2) US, (3) India, (4) Japan, (5) Brazil, (6) Russia, (7) Britain, (8)
Germany, (9) France and (10) Italy.

The key, however, is that Japan lags a distant fourth behind the top three.

On America, Keating is dismayed by the pivotal change in its outlook after the end of the
Cold War. When the Berlin Wall came down the Americans cried victory and walked off
the field, he says.

Yet the end of the Cold War offered the chance for America to develop a new world
order. It didn't know what to do with its victory. This at the moment the US should have
begun exploiting the opportunity of establishing a new world order to embrace open
regionalism and the inclusion of great states like China, India and the then loitering
Russia.

Well, frankly, the US didn't have the wisdom. It just wanted to celebrate its peace
dividend. The two Clinton terms and the two George W. Bush terms, that's four
presidential terms, have cost US mightily.

For Keating, the malaise in US politics is the problem. He says: The most compelling
thing I've seen in years is that in the great burst of American productivity between 1990
and 2008, of that massive increment to national income, none of it went to wages. By
contrast, in Australia real wages over the same period had risen by 30 per cent. Keating
sees this as the breakdown of America's national compact, the shattering of its

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029675
