THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA

PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)

scene.

art design culture ideas

http://www.alyngriffiths.com/scene/2010/10/the-house-of-the-noble-man

The House of the Noble Man
October 18th, 2010

This presentation of works by some of the world’s best known artists was intended more as a showcase for the
incredible property in which it took place than for the art itself. The eight residences in this newly redeveloped
Regency terrace happen to be on the market at the moment and, with the Frieze Art Fair taking place a stone’s
throw away in Regent’s Park, this was a perfect opportunity to entice wealthy collectors to view a potential home
or pied-a-terre.

The House of the Noble Man is supposed to evoke the home of a fictitious 21st century merchant — a digital
tycoon, trader and investor who collects art as a way of lending materiality to his otherwise transient and
ethereal existence.

Only the best will do in this sort of setting and curators Wolfe von Lenkiewicz and Victoria Golembiovskaya
managed to procure an astonishing selection of pieces including paintings, sculpture and installation works by
Yves Klein, Alexander Calder, Gerhard Richter, Andy Warhol, Damien Hirst, Tracey Emin and Banksy.

Contemporary design furniture from Carpenters Workshop Gallery helped to remind the visitor that you were ina
home rather than a gallery.

Also included in the presentation were the works of the four finalists from Channel 4 and the Saatchi Gallery’s
New Sensations 2010, a prize for artists graduating from UK art courses.

It would be impossible not to be impressed by the ambition and quality of this presentation and it certainly
provided a refreshingly serene and luxurious experience in comparison to the mélée down the road at Frieze.
However, there was something uncomfortable about viewing all of this wonderful art in what was, in essence, the
world’s most expensive show home. | guess the true success of this exhibition will be determined by whether any
of the properties sell and, for me, art should be treated as more than a sales tool.

34

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028314
