Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 539-2 Filed 01/06/17 Page 3of5

6/15/2016

against sex offender
friand of Prince...

‘fixer’: Dead tycoon's
daughter...

‘She'd always wanted to fly and Jeffrey paid for her to take lessons, and | remember she was very
excited because she got her licence around the first year we met.

‘Lused to get frightened flying with her but Bill had the Secret Service with him and | remember him
talking about what a good job she did.

‘Lonly ever met Bill twice but Jeffrey had told me that they were good friends.

‘Lasked, “How come?” and he laughed and said, “He owes me some favours.” Maybe he was just
joking but it constantly surprised me that people with as much to lose as Bill and [Prince] Andrew
weren't more careful.

‘Bill must have known about Jeffrey's girls. There were three desks in the living area of the villa on
the island.

Speaking out: : Virginia, now aged 26, in her new home i in Australia

‘They were covered with pictures of Jeffrey shaking hands with famous peapls 3 ant photos oh neKea
girls, including one of me that Jeffrey had at all his houses, lying in a hammock.

‘We all dined together that night. Jeffrey was at the head of the table. Bill was at his left. | sat across
from him. Emmy Tayler, Ghislaine’s blonde British assistant, sat at my right.

‘Ghislaine was at Bill's left and at the left of Ghislaine there were two olive-skinned brunettes who'd
flown in with us from New York.

‘I'd never met them before. I'd say they were no older than 17, very innocent-looking.

‘They weren't there for me. They weren't there for Jeffrey or Ghislaine because | was there to have
sex with Jeffrey on the trip.

‘Maybe Jeffrey thought they would entertain Bill, but | saw no evidence that he was interested in

them. He and Jeffrey and Ghislaine seemed to have a very good relationship. Bill was very funny.

‘He made me laugh a few times. And he and ‘Bill must have known about

Jeffrey and Ghislaine told blokey jokes and the lant

brunettes listened politely and giggled. Jeffrey Ss girls. There were three
desks in the living area of the

‘After dinner | gave Jeffrey an erotic massage. | . ° .
don’t remember seeing Bill again on the trip but ~~ Villa on the island... covered with
photos of naked girls’

| assume Ghislaine flew him back.’

According to prison records, when Epstein was
serving his jail term, his visitors included a long-
time — and highly controversial — Clinton acquaintance, Arnold Prosperi.

‘In the final hours of the Clinton presidency, in January 2001, Prosperi was facing three years in
prison after being convicted of tax fraud. Mr Clinton commuted his sentence to house arrest.

‘Clinton, Prosperi and Epstein make an odd threesome on the face of it,’ says a law enforcement
source.

‘Was Prosperi visiting Epstein as some kind of intermediary for Bill?

‘Maybe Bill wanted to know if Epstein knew anything that could embarrass him. Or did Bill commute
Prosperi’s sentence as some kind of favour

for Epstein?’

Virginia disclosed that Mr Clinton’s vice-president Al Gore and his wife, Tipper, were also guests of
Epstein on his island.

Case 1:15! GrO Tash VES 0 Dercerrne rit 2 Hb Bicokz pings SEMI] OMe Grind 5

Cambridge can't
contain her excitermant
as her horse wins at
Royal Ascot races
Whooped and cheered

CONFIRMED: Nicola
Brown Simpson DID
have an affair with OJ's
best friend Marcus Allen
-and OJ ‘threatened to
kill her if she saw him
again... one month
before her death’

‘I've been doing him
forever:' Awkward
moment Sonja Morgan
discovers Luann de
Lesseps’ ‘soul mata’ is
her old ‘hook up’
Thomas D'Agostino

She really IS a lady in
waiting! Amelia Windsor
~ Tatler’s most beautiful
royal - swaps high
glamour for
WAITRESSING as she
helps out at a launch

New beau? Ashley
Olsen, 30, is
romantically linked to
artist George Condo, 59,
alter they are spotted
‘looking romantic’ at
NYC's Mercer Hotel

Dad bod! Adam
Sandler, 49, shows off
his naked chest while
wrapped in towal during
Miami vacation with his
wife of 13 years
Couple looked blissful

Kim Kardashian’s
naked ambition is taid
bare again as she strips
off to celebrate her post-
baby body with GQ
cover
Gave birth in December

Kake-gate! Kim
Kardashian tries to
cheat on family cake
makers Hansan's by
asking her followers for
new bakery
recommendations

‘lworked my a** off:
Kim Kardashian spills
secrets to losing 60lbs
after pregnancy as she
admits Gam gym
sessions and ‘militant
diet’ did trick

Advertisement

http//Avww.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-1363452/Bill-Clinton- 15-year-old-masseuse-l-met-twice-claims-Epsteins-girl.htm! 2/31

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014670
