wo On Nu fF Ww

NN NM NNN PHP PP RP BP oe Bp
UR WD HF OW MOAN HUBWNP OO

293

excerpts out of a deposition to try to imply
something when there's other parts that totally
are inconsistent with that. And if you're
going to do that, then he has the ability under
our rules to review the entire transcript of

the deposition and that's what I'm permitting
him to do, just like when we're in court.

MR. SCAROLA: What I ain doing,

Mr. Scott -- what | am doing, Mr. Scott --

MR. SCOTT: Have you read that now, sir?

MR. SCAROLA: -- is reviewing the evidence
that was relied upon by Bradley Edwards and by
Paul Cassell in coming to the conclusion that
the allegations that had been made by Virginia
Roberts were, in fact, credible allegations.

MR. SCOTT: And I'm --

MR. SCAROLA: Because your own client has
acknowledged that this is information that was
available to both him and to them back in 2009.

MR. SCOTT: And what I am doing is showing
him portions of the same deposition that
totally take a different position from this
witness from what you have read, so that this
record is a complete record and not a partial
record with your inference only. And I feel

wo orn AU BP WN

NNNNN NFP FPP BP HPP BP eB Be
uP WNOrF OM ON HOB WNP O

that that's totally appropriate. If we were in
a courtroom, a judge would permit him to do it.
So you have your position and I have mine.
MR. SWEDER: Can we have the witness read
that?
BY MR. SCAROLA:
Q. Do you recall the following testimony

having been given in that same deposition?

Question: Allright. This is follow-up
to questioning by Ms. Ezell. Ms. Ezell asked
you about Mr. Dershowitz being present in
Mr. Epstein's home, and I think you said -- I
think you said Mr. Epstein and he and
Mr. Dershowitz were friends?

“Answer: Yes.

“Question: She also, I think, asked was
Mr. Dershowitz ever there when one of the young
women who gave a massage was present in the
home.

“Answer: I don't remember that.

Question: That's where I want to clear

up. Is it your testimony that Mr. Dershowitz

was there when any of the women came to
Mr. Epstein's home to give a massage?
Answer: Yes.

wow on nm bP WN

NN NN NN FP RP FP RP RP RP RP RP OP oH
mW NY FP oO fo MAI HO FP WN FP Oo

295

Do you remember that testimony having been
given?

A. lassume that when your clients used the
transcript as a basis for their false conclusion
that I was guilty, they read the whole transcripts,
not just the --

BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. Every word.

MR. SCOTT: Don't interrupt him.
BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. You don't need to assume that. 1 will
stipulate they read every word.

MR. SCOTT: Mr. Scarola, he's speaking.

You don't have a right to do this.

A. And if you read every word, you will see
that it's totally exculpatory, that I have no idea
whether there were any young women in one part of
the house when I was in another part of the house.
It's completely consistent with my testimony that |
have never seen any underage women. Let's see.

And if you read the whole transcript,
you'll see, | think:
Was Dershowitz ever there when one of the
woman gave a Massage?
I don't remember that.

wnornonau fF WN

NN NN NYP PP PY PP Oe eo
PWN eH OW AANA UM BWNHRH OO

Were you in -- were you in any way
attempting in your response to imply that

Mr. Dershowitz had a massage by one of these

young ladies?

T don't know, sir.

You have no knowledge?

No, sir.

And you certainly weren't implying that

that occurred; you just have no knowledge,

correct?

“Answer: I don't know.

And I would hope that your clients would
be reading the whole thing in context, unlike what
you've tried to do to try to create a false
impression that this testimony in any way exculpates
me.

I have to say if this is what they relied
on, my confirmation of their unethical and
unprofessional conduct has been strongly
corroborated by that and you're helping my case.

BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. Would it have been reasonable for Bradley
Edwards and Paul Cassell to have relied upon the
detailed reports of Palm Beach police department?

A. 1 don't know. I don't know what the Palm

30 (Pages 293 to 296)

www.phippsreporting.com
(888) 811-3408

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010812
