13

BANNON AGONISTES

e, too, felt like a prisoner, he had told Katie Walsh when she came to tell him she
was leaving.

By ten weeks in, Steve Bannon’s mastery of the Trump agenda, or at least of Trump
himself, appeared to have crumbled. His current misery was both Catholic in nature—the
self-flagellation of a man who believed he lived on a higher moral plane than all others—
and fundamentally misanthropic. As an antisocial, maladjusted, post-middle-aged man, he
had to make a supreme effort to get along with others, an effort that often did not go well.
Most especially, he was miserable because of Donald Trump, whose cruelties, always
great even when they were casual, were unbearable when he truly turned against you.

“T hated being on the campaign, I hated the transition, I hate being here in the White
House,” said Bannon, sitting one evening in Reince Priebus’s office, on an unseasonably
warm evening in early spring, with the French doors open to the arbor-covered patio
where he and Priebus, now firm friends and allies in their antipathy toward Jarvanka, had
set an outdoor table.

But Bannon was, he believed, here for a reason. And it was his firm belief—a belief he
was unable to keep to himself, thus continually undermining his standing with the
president—that his efforts had brought everybody else here. Even more important, he was
the only person showing up for work every day who was committed to the purpose of
actually changing the country. Changing it quickly, radically, and truly.

The idea of a split electorate—of blue and red states, of two opposing currents of
values, of globalists and nationalists, of an establishment and populist revolt—was media
shorthand for cultural angst and politically roiled times, and, to a large degree, for
business as usual. But Bannon believed the split was literal. The United States had become
a country of two hostile peoples. One would necessarily win and the other lose. Or one
would dominate while the other would become marginal.

This was modern civil war—Bannon’s war. The country built on the virtue and the
character and the strength of the American workingman circa 1955—65 was the ideal he

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020013
