absolutely brilliant how easily money seduced all walks of life...nothing
or no one that couldn’t be bought in his eyes. Behind the two of them
followed a destructive trail of those in their path that were misused,
violated, degraded in a variety of ways for one purpose... to satisfy the
desires of the perversion that rotted their hearts.

The next couple of months I spent in Jeffrey’s company, my life was
revolved around him and his petty happiness. Arising to the occasion, I
was no longer his teenage sidekick, I was growing into being a young
woman and my body was blossoming like never before. Out of the
awkward stages of my life, 1 now took to looking after myself like never
before. Regular sessions in tanning beds and keeping fit became my life
outside of Jeffrey. He kept telling me what a beautiful woman I was
developing into and would offer suggestions to help me look good.
Sending me to dentists for regular teeth whitening consultations or
helping me choose my attire for the evening, he was ushering me into a
whole new position, training me up for something else, but I was unsure
of what that was.

Being a snotty little teenager was a girl of the past. Now I had to be his
eloquent speaking, desirable to all and almost his personal porcelain doll.
I went everywhere with him again, all of his eclectic dinner parties,
conferences, and meetings with various members of parliament, famous
celebrities, and other esteemed billionaires...most of whom lived by the
same rule of thumb as Jeffrey did. Quite an alarming realization having to
accept this world the way it is. Jeffrey knew all of the right people in this
game, and trading girls for favors is how he kept in the circle. He was at
the center of it all, blackmail being the only thing next to money with the
ability to pull a many of strings, his conniving ulterior motive was to drag
all that he could down to his pitiful state of mind. Inviting easily tempted
acquaintances to his island or his other various residences he would bring
out the assortment of young girls and pass them around like they were
cocktails on a platter. No girl had a choice in whom they went with, only
completing a task, we would have to charm and bedazzle these ageing fat
men who other than paying for it would’ve never had a shot at getting to
know a beautiful girl intimately. I personally belonging to Jeffrey rarely
had to be loaned out and it was a big occasion, or should I say favor, if]
was. I’ll never really know what made me so important or special to
Jeffrey, it definitely had nothing to do with love. I guess in the end I will
always put it down to my capability of being whomever he wanted when
he wanted, so compliant it just made it easy for him to have a personal
toy at his constant disposal. All I can say is I lived in a jail with no bars,
and in a country where slavery was supposedly abolished a long time ago
but still existed right underneath everybody’s noses. Myself and so many
other girls were walking proof of it.

89

| Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004222

I still was given proper training in massage therapy from time to time,
keeping me from looking back at being a teenager with no responsibilities
to being a young adult with prospering titles. He knew I wanted to be self-
sufficient so bad I would do anything for it and by giving me this dream
to hold to only kept me in check. I looked forward to my training
sessions, holding onto every word passed down to me and after the
session was complete I would hurry back to my room and transfer the
information into a workbook with associating exercises.

Trying my new moves on Jeffrey always impressed him, he would get
excited hearing about my passion for knowledge and would tell me he
could see it transfer into my massages, always giving it my all, my hands
were a focused energy when I was at work. Using every ounce of strength
to apply on a body, many were astounded in what I could do for being
such a small girl, and Jeffrey loved it, using me for a two-hour massage
“with benefits” sometimes being over twice a day. Ghislane would
sometimes use me to massage her still but it wasn’t as common, she
preferred a man for that job.

Then would come the odd client here and there, of course set up by
Jeffrey. Most of which were orchestrated to get beautiful girls
comfortable and consequently naked then he would go in for the kill, so
to speak, touching them intimately, in their most private of places like
their vagina, breasts or anal. When he had us where he wanted, willing
and able, then would come the toys, outfits and so on. A scheme he has
used time and time again, telling those who know him well “he had never
been tured down yet”. It was starting to dawn on me how | wasn’t
getting any clientele that weren’t used for Jeffrey’s benefit and would
make me wonder if I just wasn’t good enough for that, but I kept quiet,
never wanting to make waves like I had before.

To give mea break from it all as if Jeffrey didn’t want to overload me
again, he would send me away to his ranch for a few days, what he knew
I considered being a small slice of heaven on earth. I’d spend my days
roaming the hills, riding horses, and enjoying the solitude of my own
company. One afternoon I was out exploring the land on Jeffrey’s ranch
which covered hundred’s of acres with nothing but a bottle of water, my
sketchbook and a small case of oil paint. I was on the search for
something interesting to paint. A great pastime of mine, it made my soul
quiet by creating beauty with my brush. I loved to recreate the images T
saw on paper. I would paint anything beautiful that caught me eyes
interest, from underwater scenes, animals to people and even fruit, [ loved
vibrant colors and emotion on display but my favorite soon became the
landscape of the Santa Fe’s rolling hills and earthly green and beige tones
and in certain light it would illuminate into a golden shine. To grasp that
feeling I was absolved in at the hardest of times became my greatest inner-

90

O Copyright Protected Material

GIULTRE004223

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021189
