Other men seem to be having issues with their age. One mentioned that he's just turned
40, and that's really bugging him. Then he flaked out on me a couple times -- I don't think
he was completely okay with his own decision to be seeing me. But anyway, often,
another thing these men seem to get out of it is access to someone who has a bunch of
youthful energy and optimism and just plain new ideas. A lot of them have mentioned
feeling stuck, or bored, or cynical, or intellectually constrained. So in this sense sex is
only one thing I'm offering them -- I'm also offering them optimism, hope, energy, and so
on. Firstly, the sex is good in and of itself, as most of them aren't getting laid otherwise.
But the sex is also a symbol of them getting access to my youthful energy or whatever.

I think the archetypal image of a mistress involves a woman being kept so that she
doesn't have to work, so that she can be available for sex basically whenever. But I don't
think this is what the men I see want. I am more valuable to them because I have other
work that I am seriously invested in, and am having sex with them anyway. Again, these
men are interested in a woman who they see as more equal to them -- in this case,
defined by earnings potential -- and they seem gratified by the idea that they could help
me enter their income bracket someday. This is, of course, still kind of patronizing; like I
said, they keep using words like mentor. It's also presumptuous. But I think a lot of
them being patronizing and presumptuous can probably be attributed to age and wealth,
and only some of it to gender.

I think I've learned more about class and money than I have about gender. It turns out
there are people to whom $1,000 versus $3,000 doesn't matter that much, and I finally
understand that on a visceral level. $1,000 doesn't mean the same thing to me as it does to
most of them. I knew this, but now I really know it.

Another thing I've been struck by is exactly how much romantic relationships are worth.
I've had several clients tell me they don't feel wealthy, and they feel like they worry about
money a lot. I think they were sincere. Of course, my first thought was: don't you think
that your $2,000-per-month prostitute is part of the budget that could be trimmed? But I
think that maybe it's not, actually. I think they think that investing a lot of money in me is
a good investment for them if it gives them a release valve so they can deal with the rest
of their lives. They're probably right.

Clarisse Thorn: You mentioned that you feel powerful in your relationships with
these men. But there are issues of your safety, right?

Olivia: I think there are issues of safety anytime a person meets someone they don't really
know, especially if they plan to spend time in private. And especially if you're dealing
with topics as sensitive as sex or money. There may be more issues of safety with this
because some people really do believe that money can buy them anything. But for the
most part, when I meet people they seem very respectful.

Things I do to increase my safety are that I tell my husband and my friends where I'm
going to be, I tell them exactly where I am. I'll do things like take down a client's license
plate number and text it to my husband. I've been thinking maybe I should look at each
client's driver's license too, and text the client's name and driver's license number to my
husband. I think some clients might feel threatened by that, though.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018611
