14

fear of a military attack by Israel. The biggest reason is that he is
worried about his country's economy, which is far more crucial to the
regime's survival than the nuclear programme. The Islamic regime in
Iran has not and will not live on its nuclear programme. It lives on its
economy. Khamenei is worried that if he doesn't negotiate, the west
will find it easier to justify isolating his country. This, in turn, will
make it easier to gain international approval for tough economic
sanctions. With so much legitimacy lost domestically after Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad's controversial election in 2009, Khamenei has even
more reason to worry about the impact that sanctions could have on
the survival of his regime. This is the main reason why he is
negotiating and will continue to do so. This is also why he will be
careful, as he was before Dagan's statement, in the way he approaches
his nuclear programme. One also has to ask: which is the bigger
reason why the international community is becoming more united
against Iran's nuclear programme? Its distaste and concern for
Khamanei's desire to have access to a bomb (which is becoming more
apparent from clause 35 of the most recent IAEA report), or threats
by Israel to attack Iran's nuclear installations? After recent
revelations, such as the secret enrichment site near Qom, the former
is more true. To deal with such a regime and to confront its
controversial nuclear programme, instead of constantly relying on
military threats, Israel's leaders would be better advised to study
Coelho's masterpiece, The Alchemist, and page 121 in particular:
When you want something, all the universe conspires in helping you
to achieve it.

Israel is no longer alone in its belief that Iran wants to build a bomb.
Judging by the support for sanctions, the UN and especially its
security council members are more on the side of Israel than Iran.
This includes countries such as South Korea that have adopted
unilateral sanctions against Iran. In its bid to stop Iran's nuclear

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_032184
