BREAKING DOWN DEMOCRACY: Goals, Strategies, and Methods of Modern Authoritarians

7. Military invasions: Russian forces poured into
Georgia through its two breakaway territories,
Abkhazia and South Ossetia, during a brief con-
flict in 2008. In 2014, Russian troops occupied
Crimea, oversaw a stage-managed referendum
on annexation there, and unofficially entered
eastern Ukraine en masse to support a sup-
posedly indigenous rebellion by ethnic Russian
separatists.

8. Frozenconflicts: The term “frozen conflict” in-
dicates a condition in which active fighting has
ended or subsided but there is no peace agree-
ment beyond a tenuous cease-fire. Under Putin,
Russia has perpetuated or created frozen con-
flicts that affect Armenia, Azerbaijan, Moldova,
Georgia, and Ukraine. In each case, the Kremlin
retains for itself the capacity to subdue or esca-
late tensions as needed to maximize its political
influence over the relevant country.

oscow applies these tactics according to its objec-
tives for a particular country or region. For nearby EU
and North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) mem-
ber states, the goal is to remind local political leaders
that Russia can play a disruptive role, and to inject a
measure of fear into foreign policy calculations. While
the Kremlin holds out the possibility of military inva-
sion as an option, its preference thus far has been to
promote instability and uncertainty.

Russia's message is meant both for the target country
and for its more distant allies. The target country is
effectively warned that challenging Russian interests
could provoke serious reprisals. For allies like the Unit-
ed States, Britain, or Germany, the message is that
solidarity with the target country could entail a heavy
cost, including the possibility of a shooting war in
which they are obliged to defend small NATO member
states like Estonia and Latvia.

The ‘Russian world’

A favorite theme of Kremlin propaganda is the so-
called Russian world, a cultural or civilizational space
that extends beyond Russia's political borders. This
deliberately flexible and nebulous concept suggests
that Russia claims the right to intervene wherever its
perceived brethren—ethnic Russians, other Russian
speakers, Orthodox Christians—are under threat.

Putin has spoken of one million Russians cut adrift by
the collapse of the Soviet Union. He has said it is his ob-
ligation to protect these people, and he has tried to ap-

peal to them through culture, history, and the media. His
press spokesman, Dmitriy Peskov, has said that “Russia
is the country that underlies the Russian world, and the
president of that country is Putin; Putin precisely is the
main guarantor of the security of the Russian world.”

In 2014, amid Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Putin
dredged up the tsarist-era term Novorossiya to de-
scribe a large swath of southeastern Ukraine that he
hinted might be annexed. Suddenly, the Novorossiya
idea began appearing in Russian media, complete
with maps, while Russian-backed separatists moved
to write the “history” of the region into textbooks.°
Eventually Putin dropped Novorossiya from his
speeches, having successfully stoked fears that the
Ukraine conflict could widen beyond Crimea and
the Donbas. The international community was then
apparently meant to feel grateful that Russian forces
did not press their attack any further.

In practice, Putin has invoked the idea of a greater
Russian world to intimidate only countries that have
embraced democracy and seek closer ties to the EU
and NATO. He has shown little interest in ethnic Rus-
sians and other residents in Central Asian states like
Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, even though they suffer
under political conditions that Freedom House ranks
as among the least free in the world.

The case of Estonia

Throughout its history, Estonia has been fought over by
Russia and European powers to the west. During World
War Il, it was occupied by the Red Army and forcibly
annexed to the Soviet Union. Its elites and intellectuals
were murdered or deported to the Soviet gulag, and the
Estonian people endured over four decades of Soviet-
ization and Russification, including a policy of encour-
aging Russian speakers to relocate to Estonia.

The country regained its independence in 1991 with
the disintegration of the Soviet Union. From early on,
relations between the ethnic Estonian majority and the
sizeable ethnic Russian minority have been difficult.
Estonia has adopted citizenship laws that require many
ethnic Russians to pass an Estonian language test,
and they complain of being treated as second-class
citizens. In opinion surveys, however, Russian speakers
show little enthusiasm for becoming citizens of Russia,
and have indicated an appreciation for the access to
Europe that citizenship in an EU country confers.’

There are an estimated 300,000 ethnic Russians in
Estonia. Approximately three-quarters get their news

48

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019282
