4.2.12
WC: 191694

I was asked to help confront this challenge early in my career in several important cases pitting
national security against the First Amendment.

These early cases grew out of our disastrous experience in Vietnam, and I observed at close range
the ravages of war on our freedoms at home.

The first major Vietnam case was the conspiracy prosecution against Dr. Benjamin Spock, the
Reverend William Sloan Coffin, and several other antiwar leaders. I played a consulting role in
the defense of Dr. Spock and eventually wrote an article for the New York Times about the case
after the convictions were reversed on appeal.

The most publicized and notorious of the Vietnam protest cases was the conspiracy prosecution
against the “Chicago 7” growing out of demonstrations during the 1968 Democratic Convention.
After the trial of that case, the lead defense lawyer—William Kunstler—was held in contempt of
court and sentenced to four years imprisonment. I was part of the legal team assembled to
prepare the appeal of that contempt order. We won.

Another major prosecution was against the Berrigan brothers and other radical leaders of the draft
resistance movement. I was asked to work on the defense of that case, but was “fired” by one of
the more militant defendants when he learned that I was a Zionist.

The bitterness of the Vietnam War spread rapidly over college and university campuses. What
began as peaceful teach-ins and protests soon turned to confrontations and violence. In 1969,
there was an anti-war protest at Harvard that led to violence and several years of continuous
turmoil on that venerable campus. These events led the university to attempt to suspend or
dismiss numerous students. I represented several of these students against the university. One
was accused of “giving the finger” to a speaker. Another was accused of shouting “no silence in
the face of death,” when the speaker requested a moment of silence for soldiers killed in combat.
We won both cases.

At Stanford University the leader of the antiwar group was a professor of English literature
named Bruce Franklin. He was a Maoist, a Stalinist, and an advocate and practitioner of direct
action, including violence. As a result of several speeches he gave and activities in which he
participated, the Stanford administration decided to strip him of tenure and fire him. It was the
first political firmg of a tenured professor by a major university since the terrible days of
McCarthyism. I took his case on behalf of the American Civil Liberties Union.

As the war was winding down and the United States was deciding to withdraw from Vietnam, the
CIA was given a major role in overseeing the American evacuation. One of the highest ranking
CIA agents in charge of the operation was Frank Snepp. Snepp wrote an uncensored account of
his experiences—taking care, however, not to disclose any classified material. He refused to
submit his manuscript for prior “approval” by the CIA, as required in his employment contract.
When his book entitled Decent Interval was published the CIA sued him, and the case eventually

“! See Dershowitz, Stretch Points of Liberty

121

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017208
