the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(5)) provides that
“[nJo person shall knowingly circumvent or knowingly fail
to implement a system of internal accounting controls or
knowingly falsify any book, record, or account ....””” The
Exchange Act defines “person” to include a “natural person,
company, government, or political subdivision, agency, or
instrumentality of a government.”

An issuer’s officers and directors may also be held civ-
illy liable for making false statements to a company’s audi-
tor. Exchange Act Rule 13b2-2 prohibits officers and direc-
tors from making (or causing to be made) materially false
or misleading statements, including an omission of material
facts, to an accountant. This liability arises in connection
with any audit, review, or examination of a company’s finan-
cial statements or in connection with the filing of any docu-
ment with SEC”

Finally, the principal executive and principal finan-
cial officer, or persons performing similar functions, can
be held liable for violating Exchange Act Rule 13a-14 by
signing false personal certifications required by SOX.
Thus, for example, in January 2011, SEC charged the for-
mer CEO of a US. issuer for his role in schemes to bribe
Iraqi government officials in connection with the United
Nations Oil-For-Food Programme and to bribe Iraqi and
Indonesian officials to purchase the company’s fuel addi-
tives. There, the company used false invoices and sham con-
sulting contracts to support large bribes that were passed
on to foreign officials through an agent, and the bribes were
mischaracterized as legitimate commissions and travel fees
in the company’s books and records. The officer directed
and authorized the bribe payments and their false recording
in the books and records. He also signed annual and quar-
terly SOX certifications in which he falsely represented that
the company’s financial statements were fairly presented
and the company’s internal controls sufficiently designed,
as well as annual representations to the company’s external
auditors where he falsely stated that he complied with the
company’s code of ethics and was unaware of any violations
of the code of ethics by anyone else. The officer was charged
with aiding and abetting violations of the books and records

and internal controls provisions, circumventing internal

The FCPA:

Accounting Provisions

controls, falsifying books and records, making false state-
ments to accountants, and signing false certifications.” He
consented to the entry of an injunction and paid disgorge-
ment and a civil penalty.**! He also later pleaded guilty in
the United Kingdom to conspiring to corrupt Iraqi and

Indonesian officials?”

Criminal Liability for Accounting Violations

Criminal liability can be imposed on companies
and individuals for knowingly failing to comply with the
FCPA’s books and records or internal controls provisions.
As with the FCPA’s anti-bribery provisions, individuals are
only subject to the FCPA’s criminal penalties for violations
of the accounting provisions if they acted “willfully.”?

For example, a French company was criminally
charged with failure to implement internal controls and
failure to keep accurate books and records, among other
violations.*® As part of its deferred prosecution agreement,
the company admitted to numerous internal control fail-
ures, including failure to implement sufficient anti-bribery
compliance policies, maintain a sufficient system for the
selection and approval of consultants, and conduct appro-
priate audits of payments to purported “business consul-
tants.”*** Likewise, a German company pleaded guilty to
internal controls and books and records violations where,
from 2001 through 2007, it made payments totaling
approximately $1.36 billion through various mechanisms,
including $805.5 million as bribes and $554.5 million for
unknown purposes.“

Individuals can be held criminally liable for accounting
violations. For example, a former managing director of a US.
bank’s real estate business in China pleaded guilty to conspir-
ing to evade internal accounting controls in order to trans-
fer a multi-million dollar ownership interest in a Shanghai

building to himself and a Chinese public official with whom

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022546

