to make others surrender to her extreme force. She could be so opposite
all of the sudden and be tenderly intimate with Jeffrey stroking his penis
lovingly and even speaking in baby talk to him, which he seemed to
adore.

He loved us pairing up so much that within months he made Rena an
official even renting her an apartment at the same place he had one for me
during my extensive trips out to N.Y.C. Sending us out shopping together
at all of the underground seedy sex stores downtown we would bring him
back thousands of dollars worth of sexy outfits, sex toys and bondage
material. His favorite one was a black leather studded collar that lead
down the back of my spine to cuff my hands and feet together, offering
Rena the most compromising positions to wield her afflictions, one she
was excited to pick out for my usage.

She was good at eradicating my softer side though. Helping me forge
an unpredictable scenario of me turning the tables on her, making her at
my will instead of me always being at her twisted discretion. Jeffrey
loved the rivalry between us, both striving to dominate the other one but
to me it was just another way of surviving her punishment. All for show I
thought she was a madman let loose in a torturesome domain of violent
sex and unbearable beatings. I wasn’t sure how long I could hold off this
charade of S & M, I just didn’t want Jeffrey to think I couldn’t give him
everything that she could, always being replaceable in his company.

She and | could often come across:as good friends to his blind eye but
it was only a matter of time before the animosity inside of me was going
to snap. Doing normal things too made it all half bearable. Having a lot of
similar interests we did fun things like go to the theatre to watch
“Phantom of the Opera” or visit several historical and art museums
together, afterwards treating ourselves for a giant piece of greasy N.Y.C
style pizza. Like I said, we really liked cach other purely as friends but
the dominance in the massage chambers was taking it’s toll on our
strange friendship. One average trip back to N.Y.C, she surprised Jeffrey
with a six foot by six-foot oil painting of her and I lying nude in a ying
and yang position facing each other. Although we were soliciting each
other with sexual innuendo the picture was still very carefully
orchestrated to perfectly portray the darker side of Jeffrey’s thrills. It was
an amazing piece of work, besides the lewdness of it, but she would’ve
known that’s exactly what kind of art Jeffrey liked. He was so astounded
by her gift as he had previously asked her to construct a small painting of
us together but was not expecting anything of this grand magnitude she
had presented him with. He lifted her from the ground and twirled her
around before he thanked her profusely and embellished her with his
profound gratitude, the only thing Jeffrey had to offer, he handed her a
small wad of cash as her payment. It was the most appreciation [ had ever

63

1 Copyright Protected Material

GIUFFRE004196

seen him show a girl. Obviously moved by her gesture, he got her an
exhibit in N.Y.C’s “Metropolitan Museum of Art” where she submitted
her very own piece. She sculpted an image of my headshot out of clay,
shaping it with the strands of my long hair blowing across my face. I was
taken aback myself at her creation. She really did have an amazing talent
if not for her meaner streak she would’ve been a great friend. I will never
forget Rena, for all of the ups and the downs we endured together.

It wasn’t too much longer before I finally had enough of the abuse in
the bedroom and I had to tell Jeffrey what I was feeling. She was getting
even more violent as time went on, and with her questioning me and
Jeffrey why she didn’t get brought on long trips with him, she didn’t get
the fact that she was just a tool for him to use. Jeffrey said he was already
thinking about getting rid of her off of his “regular list”. He said she was
becoming too clingy and he didn’t like clinginess or jealousy. I never
even got to say good-bye or take the opportunity to keep her as a friend,
like a girlfriend to catch up with once and awhile, but that’s how it was
with Jeffrey, one day you sat under the blanket of his comfortably and the
next without any warning you could be discarded like yesterdays news.
She would’ve taken it hard but that’s the game we were playing and it
was for those who knew what lines not to cross.

I was further surprised the next day when Jeffrey gave me a thousand
dollars to go shopping in downtown Manhattan to find a classy dress, on
top of being sent to the exclusive beauty salon of celebrity stylist
“Frederic Fekkai” for a new look. It was amazing, to be pampered like
royalty. I walked out of there feeling like I had replaced a young girl with
a young woman, | felt beautiful. He had yet another surprise in store for
me. Ghislane called me and told me | need to go to a photo-developing
store and ask them for two I.D photos then bring them downtown to
Jeffrey’s Manhattan office. Weird request I thought. | was more used to
posing in full body shots being sexually exposed as a gift for Jeffrey. I
did as they asked and took my two photos into the office where Jeffrey’s
assistant was waiting for my arrival. Still not telling me what the
headshots were for, she took them from me and told me to have a seat for
a second. A moment later I heard Jeffrey call me into the office. “T like
what you’ve done with your hair, you’ve gone more blonde, suits your
glowing tan”. I replied with an appreciative “thank-you” for sending me
to such a renowned hairstylist, and shopping money. I showed him my
finds for the day, an elegant off the shoulder navy blue dress that had two
layers that would swoosh and sway with my every stride. lL couldn’t wait
to wear it on a special occasion, and 1 wouldn’t have to. The pictures I
had to bring to him, as he would proceed to tell me, were for my first
passport. I was so excited, we were going to France for a close friend of
Jeffrey and Ghislane’s birthday party, famed super-model Naomi

64

CB Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL

GIUFFRE004 197

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021176
