110

Teaching Minds

Britannica, if you will. It would be filled with knowledge from experts
that had been vetted by other experts and delivered seamlessly with-
out your having to search for it. You don’t need to bea scholar in order
to make reasoned decisions. You just need to know how to find infor-
mation to help you think things out well. This means that learning
to think clearly and knowing how to assess the value of new evidence
that one has found, must be the main goal of any school system.
When does school start to falter? One way to think about school
is to ask about the significance and age-related properties of each of
the cognitive processes. Let’s see if we can rank the processes in terms

of age.

Which of these processes would we expect a child who was

entering school to already be able to do? To put this another way, a
normal 5-year-old:

1.

11.

12,

can make some accurate predictions about very simple
things, like where his mother might be and what she might
be doing and what will be on television

would have trouble modeling any process

has a limited sense of evaluation but knows what he likes
would be able to experiment with simple things like food and
toys

might be able to do limited diagnosis of what might have
gone wrong in a process, but it typically would be limited to
explanations that he had heard from someone else

might be able to do limited planning based on plans that had
been used before

might know something about causation because he would
have been told about it and remembered what he had been
told

can make some judgments based on his own tastes and what
he has been taught about what is good and what is bad

can do some describing, but typically is not at all good at it

. should be able to influence some people, especially his

grandparents

should be able to work in a simple team together with kids
his own age toward a goal

should be able to do some simple negotiation, especially with
his parents, siblings, and some friends

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023856
