How to Teach the Twelve Cognitive Processes 135

in every task they undertake. They must talk about and write about
what they do until the description process becomes second nature to
them. So, describing cannot be taught in and of itself. It must be part
and parcel of other events students undertake. Writing classes make
no sense, therefore. They exist because of the subject-based divisions
in school. Writing and speaking must be part of everything that is go-
ing on.

SUMMARY

Proficiency at all the cognitive processes depends on discovery and
being able to extrapolate from one’s experience about what has been
discovered. These processes depend strongly on prior cases, and prior
cases are best learned slowly in childhood. They also depend on an
analysis of those cases, which is best done with help from a teacher.
Discussion, reflection, and analysis of prior cases make one better able
to deal with new cases. New cases must be compared with old ones
in a way that helps one reason better from them. This comparison is
the basis of teaching analytic cognitive processes. Learning cognitive
processes means having prior experiences with events that are similar
to current events and being able to extrapolate from them. When we
go to a doctor, we want one who has seen our problem, and described
it to others, many times before. Only then can we detect the nuances
of difference that will determine an effective course of action.

Teaching cognitive processes means providing students with ex-
periences, hopefully each one more complex than the one before,
and helping students discuss those experiences and compare one with
another. Knowledge is experience, but it is experience that has been
analyzed so that it can be retrieved again just in time as needed. This
will happen only if we have thought about what we have experienced.

A teacher’s job, therefore, is to help provide the experiences and
to help the student reflect upon the significance of those experiences.
Good parents do this naturally. Good teachers would do it naturally as
well, if they were allowed to do so. Helping someone see the world in
a new way is pretty much what good teaching is all about.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023881
