Tales of orgies and young girls being shipped to the island, called Little St. James, have been revealed as

part of an ongoing lawsuit between Epstein and his former lawyers Scott Rothstein and Bradley Edwards.

It is unclear what the basis of the suit is, but they go on to call witness testimony from some of the
frequent guests at Epstein's island to talk about the wild parties that were held there in the early 2000s.

Flight logs pinpoint Clinton's trips on Epstein’s jet

Convicted: Epstein was investigated in 2005 after a

between the years 2002 and 200 5, while he was working woman reported that he paid her 14-year-old daughter for
sex
on his philanthropic post-presidential career and while

his wife Hillary was a Senator for their adopted state of New York.

‘I remember asking Jeffrey what's Bill Clinton doing here kind fo thing, and he laughed it off and said well
he owes me a favor,’ one unidentified woman said in the lawsuit, which was filed in Palm Beach Circuit
Court.

The woman went on to say how orgies were a regular occurrence and she recalled two young girls from
New York who were always seen around the five-house compound but their personal backstories were

never revealed.

At least one woman on the compound was there unwillingly, as the suit identifies a woman as Jane Doe

102.

She 'was forced to live as one of Epstein's underage sex slaves for years and was forced to have sex with...

politicians, businessmen, royalty, academicians, etc,’ the lawsuit says according to The Enquirer.

Epstein's sexual exploits have been documented since 2005, when a woman in Palm Beach contacted

police saying that her 14-year-old daughter had been paid $300 to massage him and then have sex.

The claim prompted a nearly year-long investigation that led to the eventual charge of soliciting
prostitution which came as part of a plea deal. He spent 13 months of a 18-month sentence in jail and

remains a registered sex offender.

Several of his famous friends cut ties- including Clinton and then-New York Governor Eliot Spitzer who
returned his campaign donations- but not all of them: Prince Andrew reportedly stayed at Epstein's

mansion in New York in 2010, months after he was released from jail.

Chelsea Clinton leaves hospital with new baby Charlotte

Keeping ties: Clinton was also friends with an unnamed woman who stored pictures of

underage girls for Epstein, and though Clinton cut ties with Epstein after his arrest, he
HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025293
