minors. Epstein purports to find a cause of action for this by alleging that Edwards somehow
was involved in “’pumping’ these three cases to investors.”

As just explained, to the extent that Epstein is alleging that Edwards somehow did
something related to the Ponzi scheme, those allegations fail for the simple reason that Edwards
was not involved in any such scheme. Edwards, for example, could not have possibly “pumped”
the cases to investors when he never paatioinated in any communication with investors.

Epstein’s “pumping” claims, however, fail for an even more basic reason: Edwards was
mnfitiad — indeed ethically obligated as an attorney — to secure the maximum recovery for his
clients during the course of his legal representation. As is well known, “[a]s an advocate, a
lawyer zealously asserts the client’s position under the rules of the adversary system.” Fla, Rules
of Prof. Conduct, Preamble. Edwards therefore was required to pursue (unless otherwise
instructed by his clients) a maximum recovery against Epstein. Edwards, therefore, cannot be
liable for doing something that his ethical duties as an attorney required.”

Another reason that Epstein’s claims that Edwards was “pumping” cases for investors
fails is that Edwards filed all three cases almost a year before he was hired by RRA or even knew
of Scott Rothstein. Epstein makes allegations that the complaints contained sensational
allegations for the purposes of luring investors; however, language in the complaints remained
virtually unchanged from the first filing in 2008 and from the overwhelming evidence the Court
can see for itself that all of the facts alleged by Edwards in the complaints were true.

: Epstein ultimately paid to settle all three of the cases Edwards filed against him for more
— than he paid to settle any of the other claims against him. At Epstein’s request, the terms

In a further effort to harass Edwards, Epstein also filed a bar complaint with the Florida Bar against Edwards. The
Florida Bar has dismissed that complaint. See Statement of Undisputed Facts.

10

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013379
