Date: 7/13/06 PALM BEACH POLICE DEPARTMENT - Page: 27
Time: 9:27:55 Incident Report Program: CMS301L
Case No. .. . : 1-05-000368 (Continued)

responded to 358 El Brillo and met with PB Sanitation worker Jeff
Williams. I observed Williams enter the driveway of 358 El Brillo and
remove several plastic bags of trash and place the contents into the
bed of the sanitation truck.

I then followed Williams to a predetermined location and seized the
trash from the truck. The trash was transported to the Palm Beach
Police Department where I began sifting through its contents, with the
assistance of Det. Recarey. There were a total of 2 bags, one of
which was white in color and tied in a knot at the top, and the other
was a black in color bag, which contained two white in color trash
bags along with loose debris. Each of the bags contained
documentation and correspondence for 358 El Brillo and Jeffrey
Epstein. All documents of evidentiary value were removed and turned
over to Det. Recarey for follow-up.

KRREKEKEKRKERKERERRERREKEERERKEKEREERE NA RRA T IT V BE # TT BREKRKRRKRKEERERRKRRREREKRRRKRRKEK
NA Reported By: RECAREY, JOSEPH 10/07/05
Entered By.: ALTOMARO, NICKIE A. 10/07/05

I met with Det. Krauel and requested further assistance to maintain
trash collections at Epstein's residence at 358 El Brillo Road. On
October 3, 2005,.at approximately 10:30 am, I was contacted by Sgt.
Frick to respond to the Palm Beach Police Station. Det. Krauel had
observed Jeff Epstein riding his bicycle on South County Road. Upon

my arrival, I met with Sgt Frick who advised, as Epstein was currently

in Town; we interview HMMM as to her involvement with Epstein
and the girls that are brought to his house. As we were to interview

in the county, (outside of our jurisdiction), I contacted the
State Attorney s Office Investigation Division, and made contact with
Assistant Supervisor Investigator Carlos Ortiz. I requested
assistance to eam? a El as the interview may occur in the
county. Supervisor Ortiz assigned Investigator Mike Waites to assist
us at the location and interview of

Det. Dicks had responded to the address of PE anc viewed her —

vehicle parked in the driveway. [Rs vehicle a red Plymouth Neon
baring Florida Tag of Po was parked in the driveway of [sd
Sgt Frick and I responded to 120th Ave and
awaited the arrival of Investigator Mike Waites. Upon his arrival, he
was briefed that should she wish to be interviewed within her home he
would be needed. However, should J agree to return to the police
station for further questioning, he would not be needed. - Sgt. Frick
and I knocked on the door and met with . EER was told
that we were investigating a claim involving Jeffrey Epstein of El
Brillo in Palm Beach. in was asked if she wanted to accompany us
back to the police station for further questioning. She was also told
that at the conclusion of the interview she would be returned home.
She agreed and wished to change her clothes prior to accompanying us
back to the police station. At the conclusion of her changing
clothes, she advised she was ready to go. I thanked Inv. Waites and
advised she was going to voluntarily return to the police station.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018980

