reflect very distinct priorities and life philosophies.

Note how subtle differences in wording completely change the necessary actions for fulfilling what at

a glance appear to be similar goals. These are not limited to business owners. Even the first, as I will
show later, applies to employees.

NR:

NR:

NR:

NR:

NR:

NR:

NR:

NR:

To work for yourself.
To have others work for you.

To work when you want to.

To prevent work for work’s sake, and to do the minimum necessary for maximum effect (“minimum
effective load”).

To retire early or young.

To distribute recovery periods and adventures (mini-retirements) throughout life ona regular basis
and recognize that inactivity is not the goal. Doing that which excites you is.

To buy all the things you want to have.

To do all the things you want to do, and be all the things you want to be. If this includes some tools
and gadgets, so be it, but they are either means to an end or bonuses, not the focus.

To be the boss instead of the employee; to be in charge.

To be neither the boss nor the employee, but the owner. To own the trains and have someone else
ensure they run on time.

To make a ton of money.

To make a ton of money with specific reasons and defined dreams to chase, timelines and steps
included. What are you working for?

To have more.

To have more quality and less clutter. To have huge financial reserves but recognize that most
material wants are justifications for spending time on the things that don’t really matter, including
buying things and preparing to buy things. You spent two weeks negotiating your new Infiniti with the
dealership and got $10,000 off? That’s great. Does your life have a purpose? Are you contributing
anything useful to this world, or just shuffling papers, banging on a keyboard, and coming home to a
drunken existence on the weekends?

To reach the big pay-off, whether IPO, acquisition, retirement, or other pot of gold.
To think big but ensure payday comes every day: cash flow first, big payday second.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013813
