Focus: Private and public companies with novel product programs & product platforms
Investments in the biopharmaceutical sector within NLV-III will target companies that are

developing products that address clinically important unmet medical needs with competitively
differentiated technologies. The Fund will invest across all stages, usually in companies that fit
one of two different profiles. The first is companies with clearly differentiated, clinical stage
proprietary product programs focused on significant market opportunities, where value can be
built around a product(s) by financing it through one or more stages of clinical development,
and in some cases to regulatory approval and commercialization. The second are companies
with novel product platforms that are at or near the clinical stage with a lead product(s). These
companies build value around both the product(s) itself as it advances through clinical
development and around the product platform as its utility as a product creation engine is
validated through the progress of the lead product(s).

The Fund Managers expect to identify investment opportunities within private or public
companies whose primary asset(s) fall within one of the following categories:

e Early and mid-clinical stage product programs targeting a well validated mechanism of
action in a disease with significant unmet medical need. The therapeutic areas and
specific mechanisms of action will be known to be of high strategic interest to a number
of larger biopharmaceutical companies. The target product profiles of the therapeutic
product(s) for these assets will have clear points of competitive differentiation around
efficacy and/or safety versus available therapeutics (and known clinical stage
programs), and the clinical development programs behind them will be designed to
provide clear data in support of these. Examples of these types of biopharmaceutical
investments in the NLV portfolio are Array Biopharma (NLV-II, NASDAQ: ARRY,
oncology, exited at 2.25x), Chimerix (NLV-IL, private initially, now public on NASDAQ:
CMRX, novel anti-viral therapy), and Versartis (NLV-II, private, novel, long-acting
human growth hormone).

e Novel product platforms that offer the potential to target known, and well understood
pharmacologic mechanisms of action in entirely new ways, or a product platform that
has the potential to open up a field of entirely new pharmacologic mechanisms in
diseases with large unmet medical need and rapidly advancing understanding of the
underlying biology (e.g., hematologic and solid tumors). These platforms will be
supported by validating data that provide strong support for the underlying biological
hypotheses, and the companies will be at or approaching the clinical stage with an
owned or partnered lead product program. The product platforms will usually have
strong evidence of strategic interest from large or mid-sized biopharmaceutical
companies through one or more partnerships that have generated non-dilutive capital
for the company. Examples of three novel product platform companies in the NLV
portfolio are Pearl Therapeutics (NLV-I, private, pulmonology, exited at 2.5x plus
milestones), Epizyme (NLV-II, NASDAQ: EPZM, oncology, exited at 2.0x), and
Principia (NLV-IL private, immunology & oncology).

e Later development stage and commercial stage, biopharmaceutical investments, where
the investment theses will be to create value by funding companies through Phase 3
clinical trials, regulatory approval, and into early commercialization. In some cases, the

32 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024043
