God spoke also through circumstances.
What a skeptic might interpret as
coincidence is understood as God’s
intentional decision to direct the
congregant’s attention. For example:

“Everything in my life right now is
focused on trying to get to England, and
I needed to get some ID pictures. So I
was really anxious—the money hasn’t
really come together—and one afternoon
I just felt like God said, you need to get
up and go get those. Go get those ID
pictures that you need. I was like, that’s
totally inefficient. I don’t have a car, so
it’s like walking half an hour to
Walgreens and another half an hour
back. Like, I could do this later and
combine it with several things I need to
get done. But I felt it was a step of faith
to do this thing. So I did it—grumbling.
Then on the way there and back I ran
into three people I knew, and I felt that
there was a kind of pattern, and that I
was in the right place at the right time.”

These ways of recognizing God are
widely shared in many forms of
Christianity. More specific to
experiential evangelical Christianity is
the expectation that God will speak
directly into the mind, by placing a
mental image or thought or sensation
there. For example:

“T’m praying for someone and, you
know, they say their situation, what they
want me to pray for. I start praying and
start trying to, you know, really
experience God, and, you know, I see
these vivid images, and I’m explaining
these vivid images and what I think they
mean and, you know, sort of checking in
with the person, you know, does this

114

Page

resonate with you? They’re like “oh, my
gosh, yes! How did you know that?”

Most congregants find this process of
pulling out specific thoughts and
ascribing them to God baffling at first:
again, the process violates the basic
human experience that the mind is
private. A congregant commented: “now
I know that the ‘something’ is God,
God’s voice. But I didn’t at all have
words to describe it at that time I didn’t
understand. It was very confusing.”

The social world of the church
taught specific ways to differentiate
between mental events that are God and
that are not. This technique has been
taught in the church since the earliest
time as “discernment,” although the
content of the word and its rules has
varied with the era. In the modern
experiential evangelical church, the rules
of discernment are more often taught by
example and gossip than explicitly.
Nevertheless, there appeared to be four
principles. A thought might be said to
come from God if: the thought was
unexpected; the thought was consonant
with God’s nature; the congregant had
additional confirmation (one “tested” the
thought); and one felt peace during the
experience. The process was understood
to be ambiguous, and left room not only
for the congregant to be wrong, but for
different congregants to disagree about
whether God had, in fact, spoken in a
particular manner. One afternoon, a
woman spoke in front of the church
explaining that God had spoken to her
and told her that she should carry out
some mission work in a lovely part of
Mexico. The man sitting next to me said
drily, “God sure wants a lot of
evangelizing in Puerto Vallarta.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021360
