73

Pressure from Think-Tank Boards or Outside Influencers

Interaction between think-tank analysts and the members of their institution’s boards
of trustees varies significantly. Some engage frequently, socialize, and consult on
China-related issues—while others have virtually no contact. Only three interviewees
reported incidents of attempted interference. In one case, a prominent former board
member complained to the head of the think tank about an article that was “too tough”
on China. However, no pressure, besides the obviously intimidating impact of having
a piece of writing singled out by an overseer, was brought to bear on the scholar. In
another case, a board member tried to pressure a think-tank president to avoid hosting
the Dalai Lama, but failed. A third instance involved the Hong Kong political activist
discussed earlier. The tendency can also work in the other direction. One scholar
indicated that his board is very involved and has lately become tougher on China in
recent years, focusing on “how do we still counter China, yet still engage.”

Chinese Nationals in US Think Tanks

American think-tank analysts differ in their assessment of the risks and rewards

for hosting Chinese scholars as visiting fellows or employing Chinese nationals on
staff, with most suggesting that it is better to have them inside the think tanks to
understand how they are thinking and working. One analyst said he “assumed some
or all would be interrogated” when they returned to China. “RAND,” he said, “should
be worried.” One researcher noted that she is “careful to keep Chinese nationals from
attending sensitive meetings featuring US officials or military officers,” but otherwise
welcomes them to events.

Only one Washington think tank hosts Chinese scholars on a regular and continuous
basis (although Washington-based universities do so more often), including them in
programming and most meetings, even when funded by a Chinese host institution.
Scholars at this institution view them as valuable for gaining insights and for training
purposes. Another think-tank analyst who has hosted visiting fellows from China
pointed out that two prominent Chinese scholars who spent time at their institution
went back and wrote “important papers.” Still, some expressed concern over all the
“bright young Chinese showing up on Mass [Massachusetts] Ave.” and the potential
that they might have for reporting back to Beijing. The scholar noted that think
tanks want young people to “plow through the Chinese literature,” and this means
hiring Chinese nationals, Chinese Americans, or Taiwanese because of their language
abilities. Some analysts expressed concerns that think-tank analysts who are of
Chinese nationality (either nationals or American citizens) may face special pressures
from the imputation that as ethnic Chinese, they are susceptible to Chinese influence
and control.

Section5

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020532
