method can often have uncanny predictive powers. But the problem is it
doesn’t scale very well—the market, having discerned a pattern of
successful investing, quickly copies and discounts the advantage. Epstein’s
effort was to identify a dozen or so promising algorithms (each quant is
effectively hawking his secret sauce algorithm) and invest up to $5 million
with each. I knew paltry little about this and so rather found myself
identifying with the young women to whom Epstein was explaining the
basic math and mechanics—out of my league, but grateful for the lesson.

The Epstein house/office is, by careful design, exclusive and club like,
part hang out, part secret society. Along with the difficulty in explaining
why, even after his jail term, the rich and powerful continued to beat a path
to his door, it’s also notable in the fixed hierarchy of who comes to whose
turf, that everybody, when they went to see Epstein, comes to him.

A week in late September, U.N. week as it happened, began, on
Sunday, at Epstein’s house with a colloquial for billionaires—Gates, Mort
Zuckerman, and Peter Thiel [TK].

Epstein, preternaturally responsive to both the price of oil and to the
politics of the middle of east, entertained that evening a delegation from
Qatar, including Sheikh Hamad Bin Jassim, the foreign minister. Hamad,
indeed, lives across the street in a similarly furnished house—he and Epstein
have the same decorator. Epstein, in his relaxed and amused manner, kept
prodding: “Why are you financing the bad guys? What do you get out of
that?”

The Qatarians, in some mild diplomatic discomfort, seemed most
worried that their bid for the World Cup might be compromised by bribery
allegations.

At 9:00 next morning, Epstein is joined for breakfast in the dining
room by Reid Weingarten, who’s represented among other fat cats in
trouble, Worldcom’s Bernie Ebbers and Goldman Sach’s Lloyd Blankfein
and is one of attorney general Eric Holder’s closest friends. Weingarten,
horse, with a cold, and dejected, is just back from a failed defense of former
Connecticut Governor John Rowland.

After a blow by blow of the trial, there’s a discussion of the
Qartarian’s visit—Epstein is serving chocolate made from pistachios grown
on the Sheikh’s farm—and speculation about who actually controls ISIS.

“Why?” I asked Weingarten, when Epstein briefly steps out of the
room, “do some many people keep coming back here, everything
considered.”

“Why we camp out here? I guess because there’s no place like it.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022751
