On Saturday, June 24, 2017 2:43 PM, i tc:

Mr. Satz,
State's Attorney, Broward County, FI

I'm forwarding the below information as it pertains to Mrs. Lesley Simms and more importantly the
ones with whom she continues to coordinate.

As you may know, she was once close with an individual named Matthew Horton with whom she
attended George Mason University, and through Matthew, Ms. Simms became well-acquainted with
Matthew's parents Henry Bud Horton and Sue Popovich Horton who helped secure her a position
at IBM upon her graduation from GMU. Both of these latter individuals (Bud and Sue Horton) were
involved in the 2007 murder of my son, and they in collusion with their son Matthew continue in the
exploitation of children Anjulee and Xian Gunther. The powers that be intend now for these children
to (continue to) follow in the footsteps of Ms. Simms, and to that end, | would advise that you
become acquainted with (1) the ways in which Ms. Simms subsidized her law school education and
off course (2) her current and related endeavors especially as they relate to drug trafficking and
terror financing (see below email to Mr. Martin of the St. Augustine Record).

On Friday, June 23, 2017 8:36 AM, i yt:

Mr. Martin,
St. Augustine Record

Quite an interesting article about the litigation between Deputy Banks and Rusty Rogers (see:
Deputy Banks’ attorney claims FDLE agent’s credibility ‘destroyed’) It must also be explored, of
course, that Officers Rodgers was once well respected for his investigation and exposure of a
terrorist financing network that permeated the sunny state of Florida - (the NY Times reports) Agent
Rodgers joined the state’s elite investigative unit, the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, where
he quickly earned agent-of-the-year honors — and a meeting with the governor — for helping
dismantle a terrorist financing network that stretched from Florida to the Middle East - and that
terrorism is very much a well-protected U.S. industry (see below).

God forbid some poor should get away with disrupting the delicate state of secreted operations; as
you yourself report, As written in [Plaintiff Banks'] motion: “Defendant Rodgers’ false, misleading
and inconsistent testimony throughout the discovery process is so pervasive and extreme, and
involves so many material issues, it has destroyed Defendant's credibility on all issues... And here
we see the whole-of-government attempts to restore balance.

*

As for the second Secret Service agent interviewed by the IBM Center for the Business of
Government, his name is Dana Brown. He just so happened to have filled out his career with the
Federal Air Marshall Service (October 2003-August 2008 as Director/Chief of Staff) followed by the
TSA (March 2006-January 2009 as Asst. Administrator-Law Enforcement/Integrity Officer) states his
LinkedIn profile. That he worked his way around to that which was largely put in place by the 1970
9/11 mini-event seems to me rather significant although | don't see all the details yet. | also don't yet
see exactly who it was that birthed this lengthy 9/11 initiative we're suffering. It seems clear,
however, that it was birthed prior to 1970.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015022
