oO OT Din WN

NNNNNN BY eH PP eH eH eB oR Pe
MP WN eH OO MN AM Be WN FP OO

oOo ODD DU B® WN

NNNNN NF Pe HP PR OR OP
nr WNP Ow OND BW NRE O

limitations, yes.

Q. You refused to waive the statute of
limitations with regard to sexual crimes, correct?

A. Ididn't refuse anything. I didn't feel I
had any obligation to respond to you. And I did
not.

Q. So, you were asked to waive the statute of
limitations with regard to your sexual crimes and
you refused to respond?

A. I was asked by you, utterly
inappropriately, and what I had said -- and if you
check what I said, I said if any reasonable
prosecutor were to investigate the case and find
that there was any basis, I would then waive the
statute of limitations. | didn't waive the statute
of limitations because you, a lawyer, for two
unprofessional, unethical lawyers asked me to do so,
what obligation do I have to respond to you?

Q. Well, you have no obligation to respond to
me at all, Mr. Dershowitz, except now while you are
under oath and I am asking you questions and I would
greatly appreciate you responding to the questions
that I ask.

MR. SCOTT: I think he's trying.

oO OWT DM PW bh HH

NNN NNN Pe PPP PP PP Pp
mek WN FOO ON DAH PWN PO

235

Q. And by dropping the dime on the media when
they filed it, you intended to convey the message
that Paul Cassell and Bradley Edwards intentionally
generated the focus of press attention on that
filing; is that correct?

A. Absolutely. Absolutely without any doubt.

Why else would they have brought Prince Andrew into
this filing? Prince Andrew had no connection to the
NPA, no relevance at all. But they knew that by
including Prince Andrew, this would drag my name
into every single newspaper and media outlet in the
world.

It was outrageous for them to do this.
Particularly because they did so little, if any,

investigation, which will, of course, be determined

when they're deposed. And -- and --

Q. Well, you've already made that

determination, right?
MR. SCOTT: Wait.

A. I'mconvinced that -- that they did little
or no investigation. They never even bothered to
call me. That would have been --

BY MR. SCAROLA:
Q. We'll get to that in just a moment.
A. --asimple basic thing.

BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. You made the further statement in that
same interview, They dropped the dime on the media
when they filed it, referring to the CVRA
pleading --

A. Right.

Q. - in which were you named?

A. Right.

Q. What is the basis for that statement?

A. The basis for that statement was that the
filing was done virtually on the eve of New Year's
ona day that the press was completely dead. And
nonetheless, immediately upon the filing, I got a
barrage of phone calls that led me to conclude, and
led many, many, many other lawyers who called me to
conclude that obviously somebody tipped somebody off
that they didn't just happen to file -- to find in
the middle of an obscure pleading which didn't even
have a heading that indicated that | was involved or
anybody else was involved.

So, I'm certain that a dime was dropped to
somebody saying, by the way, you want an interesting
story, there's -- Prince Andrew of Great Britain and
Alan Dershowitz have been accused of sexual
misconduct. I still believe that.

oO OA DM Pf WN

NR NN NN NP PP PP eR POP HY
moe WGN FP oO tf) WAI KH FW NY HY oO

236

Q. But right now ~— right now could you
please tell us was there anything other than your
inferring that they must have contacted the media to
support your conclusion that either Paul Cassell or
Brad Edwards did, im fact, alert the media at the
time of the filing of this pleading?

A. Yes.

Q. What else besides your inference?

A. When the BBC came to see me, the BBC
reporter showed me an e-mail from Paul Cassell,
which urged him, the BBC reporter, to ask me a
series of questions. So | knew that Paul Cassell
was in touch with the British media and was trying
to stimulate and initiate embarrassing questions to
be asked of me.

And when I spoke to a number of reporters,
they certainly -- obviously reporters have
privilege, but they said things that certainly led
me to infer that they had been in close toueh with
your clients or representatives on their behalf.

. What was the date of the e-mail —
L don't know.
. -- that you referenced in that response?
. [don't know.
. Well --

15 (Pages 233 to 236)

www.phippsreporting.com
(888) 811-3408

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010797
