- You mean the media of “Muslim brotherhood”. The media criticizing Saudi Arabia or the Saudi-
Egyptian relationship is the same criticizing President Sisi. The Saudi-Egyptian relationship has a
strong and solid relationship in the deepest roots of the relations between the countries that are
not affected in any way. In the history of Egypt and Saudi Arabia, they always stand with each
other conditions and at all times. That situation did not change and there is no a situation of
negative attitude of the Egyptian government towards Saudi Arabia, and also, there is no a
situation of negative attitude of one of the Saudi government to the Egyptian government. Egypt
has not been delayed for a moment to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and Saudi Arabia will not be
delayed for a moment to Egypt. This is a strong conviction between the leaders of the two
countries, but also between the people of both countries. Without a doubt, the enemies of Saudi
Arabia and Egypt will try to create rumors in one form or another, whether from Iranian
propaganda or the media of “Muslim brotherhood” propaganda to cause a rift in the Saudi-
Egyptian relationship, and the leadership of the two countries does not pay attention to these
polemics and trivialities.

* Your Highness has mentioned the subject of King Salman Bridge between the Kingdom and Egypt. Do
Your Highness bet on it?

- That is true, the working relevant teams have started working in the offices, not in front of the media
the bridge after the bridge has been approved. The results will be announced when laying the
foundation stone with full details, and the time of laying the foundation stone before 2020 without a
doubt.

* The islands. Have you finished the subject of islands?
- There were no problems with the islands originally.
* We heard the Egyptian media speaks about the subject that within the corridors of the courts?

- which occurred about a year ago is only a delimitation of the maritime boundaries. The islands are
registered with Egypt as a Saudi islands and they are registered with Kingdom of Saudi Arabia as Saudi
islands. And are also, registered in the international centers as Saudi islands. Only the demarcation of
the maritime borders has been done. Both Egypt and Saudi Arabia has not relinquished any part of their
territories. The demarcation of the border came for reasons of economic benefits that could be created
after the demarcation of these borders, especially the King Salman Bridge, oil supply, gas supplies,
power supply or train and roads that will target the port in North Sinai, and the exports of Gulf countries
to Europe.

* |s it possible to see in the future a direct dialogue with Iran, despite what it is doing in the region?

- How to reach an understanding with one who has the regime is firmly convinced that his system is
based on the ideology of extremism enshrined in the Constitution and stipulated in the command of
Khomeini that he must control the Muslims of the Islamic world and the dissemination of the doctrine of
Jaafari-Ethna Ashry ethnic of them throughout the Islamic world until the Mahdi appears. How can |
convince this person? What are the interests between me and him? When | have a problem with
another state, we start to solve it. For example, if there is an economic problem there is a continuation
of what you want and what we want and how we understand it. Or a political problem, for example with
Russia how to cooperate in Syria. What are your interests and what are mine. How do we cooperate in

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023659
