Campbell. I was so over-joyed with excitement, what girl my age with a
background like mine was attending socialite parties and globetrotting the
world. It only made it harder for me to see beyond the elusive walls I had
put up to protect myself from the appalling truth.

We left in early April first going to London, Paris and then our final
destination being St. Tropez in Southern France. If Hallmark had a
postcard, St. Tropez would definitely be on the front of it. It was beautiful
spring weather and every where you looked women were dressed in
bikini tops branded with some kind of designer label embedded into it
and the men were following them around like harping dogs in heat. In all
of the elegance of the Mediterranean, “La Bastide De St. Tropez” was an
impressive landmark. Jeffrey and Ghislane were staying in one of the
private cottages, on the park on the grounds, while Emmy and I stayed in
separate quarters inside the hotel. The old style cobblestone streets were
lined with boutique shops and beauty parlors. It was the hedonistic
stomping grounds of the beyond rich and famous.

The next day we went out to lunch at the grand opening of the
infamous Nikki Beach Club, where a cheap glass of champagne costs
around two hundred dollars and if your not keeping the alcohol
consumption flowing like water, you’d be asked to leave to make way for
the constant flow of prospectus patrons. That’s where I first got to meet
Naomi Campbell. She was wearing the typical attire strutting around
southern France, a D&G bikini top and a wrap around mini skirt to go
over the swimsuits bikini. She was so tall and stunningly beautiful. Her
charisma was energetic, funny, and everyone seemed to hang off of her
every word and laugh at her every joke. Ghislane and Jeffrey kissed her
cheeks and wished her a happy birthday, and then I was introduced and
followed in their suit. She was surrounded by a league of assistants,
friends and fans, which didn’t make it easy for us to all converse but she
got enough time in to invite us abroad a yacht of a fellow she was “kind
of seeing” at the time for the before party ahead of tonight’s event. We
went back to the hotel and I gave Jeffrey a massage in his room before we
all headed down to the pool to soak in some of the year’s first sun’s rays.

I loved wearing my new ball gown and feeling like a princess. It was
absolutely sensational and made me feel as if I floated in the dress. I
swept up my long hair in a twisted clip, only letting down a few curly
strands and layered on the mascara. Receiving many compliments
throughout the evening when we eventually left the Yacht to make our
appearance at the main birthday bash, I couldn’t help but feel excitement
for the party to come it was the first celebrity birthday bash I had ever
been to. Being introduced to model after model and the rich men that
followed them around became dizzying. Jeffrey sat back and watched as I
buoyantly worked the dance floor, coming back to the table where he

65

|! Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004198

was, only to grab another glass of champagne every now and then. Every
so often he’d introduce to me to someone new, pulling me aside to show
off his eager young masseuse to his fellow pedo’s. These people had so
much money pouring out of them. I don’t know why he even thought
they’d care in the first place. It made me feel good though. At least I
knew I made him proud to have me in his company.

Being surrounded by so many of Jeffrey’s colleagues and his
likeminded people that were considered the most sophisticated and the
highly esteemed of today’s world nearly made the way I was living lately
more fathomable, at least to myself. | thought if everyone looks up to
these people and they are all accepting of it, it must be just the way the
world turns. I danced with a young prince that night and with all of the
help from the bubbly champagne [ couldn’t remember his name for the
life of me. On one of my trips back to the table for another glass, Jeffrey
leaned over to quietly whisper in my ear that it was a prince that I had
actually been dancing with and | didn’t phase me in the least way. | went
back to the dance floor and continued to let my hair down. [t was a fun
bash, the entire crowd sang “Happy Birthday” to Naomi and by the time
we got back in the car to retreat for the night, I was giddy from the
drinking and dancing all evening. We had a guest in the car, and
apparently we had already been introduced, but I couldn’t even remember
his name in the first five minutes of our meeting again. He was the hotel
owner of some large chain in America called “Hilton”. Staying at one of
the cottages near Jeffrey, he saw it quaint to loan me out for a night’s
massage to ruin an “almost” perfect evening. Jeffrey told me to come
back to his room after I was finished with Rick, thankfully he reminded
me of his name but also odd | thought, being so late 1 would’ve never
imagined Jeffrey could stay up this late but | never made a fuss out of his
requests. I gave him affirmation of my understood instructions and
headed off with this stranger into the darkness.

I dimmed the bright lights in his bedroom to a softer tone as if it might
aid the vision of this short, balding man with straggling remnants of curly
brown hair left to show for the remaining bits of youth left in him. | had
to ask him to undress and lay on top of the towel that I had picked up
from the neatly folded pile at the end of his bed and spread it over the
duvet. I didn’t want to waste a second in his place, getting right to the
very reason I was even there. Turning around while he was getting
undressed, being our first time together, I wanted to give him the
impression I was actually a therapist and not a finale to the end of the
nights entertainment. Not exactly what he had in mind though, given that
my impression was already made for me when Jeffrey arranged for our
meeting in the first place. His chuckle to my response was condescending
as he came up behind me and unzipped my dress which floated to the

66

C1 Copyright Protected Material

GIULPREOO4 199

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021177
