COVINGTON

The Honorable Richard Burr
The Honorable Mark R. Warner
May 22, 2017

Page 2

the witness.3 And, as courts have repeatedly held, the protection offered by the Fifth
Amendment privilege extends to producing documents where the act of production itself is
testimonial in nature.

The context in which the Committee has called for General Flynn’s testimonial
production of documents makes clear that he has more than a reasonable apprehension that any
testimony he provides could be used against him. Multiple Members of Congress have
demanded that he be investigated and even prosecuted. He is the target on nearly a daily basis of
outrageous allegations, often attributed to anonymous sources in Congress or elsewhere in the
United States Government, which, however fanciful on their face and unsubstantiated by
evidence, feed the escalating public frenzy against him.4 Additionally, in the intervening time
since the Committee issued its subpoena, the Department of Justice has appointed a special
counsel to investigate these and related matters. This environment creates a “reasonable cause
to apprehend danger,” giving rise to a constitutional right not to testify. A detailed explanation
of the legal basis for respectfully declining to comply with the Committee’s requests follows
below.5

The Fifth Amendment Privilege Bars Congress From Compelling A Witness to Provide
Testimony Through The Act of Producing Documents

The Fifth Amendment protects an individual from being “compelled in any criminal case
to be a witness against himself.” U.S. Const. amend. V. This privilege applies in congressional
investigations. In Watkins v. United States, Chief Justice Warren stressed that “the
constitutional rights of witnesses will be respected by the Congress as they are in a court of
justice. ... Witnesses cannot be compelled to give evidence against themselves.” 354 U.S. 178,
187-88 (1957). The Supreme Court later held in United States v. Hubbell, 530 U.S. 27, 34
(2000), that the right not to be compelled to give testimony against oneself applies as well to the
compelled production of documents that would be “testimonial” in nature. Specifically, the act
of producing documents in response to a subpoena may have a “compelled testimonial aspect”
when “the act of production itself may implicitly communicate statements of fact” that the
documents “existed, were in his possession or control, and were authentic.” Id. at 36 (internal
quotation marks omitted) (quoting United States v. Doe, 465 U.S. 605, 613 & n.11 (1984)).

3 Id.

4 These include leaks that purport to describe classified briefings, documents, and intelligence
collection. Any actual leaks of classified information -- including reported leaks of signals
intelligence -- constitute criminal offenses by government officials violating their duty to protect
classified information.

5 General Flynn reserves the right to assert, in connection with the subpoena, any other privilege
or protection provided by the Constitution, statute, or common law.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031671
