trail of alarming words and deeds likely to have enormous political costs.

Shortly after the election, his friend Ailes told him, with some urgency, “You’ve got to
get right on Russia.” Even exiled from Fox News, Ailes still maintained a fabled
intelligence network. He warned Trump of potentially damaging material coming his way.
“You need to take this seriously, Donald.”

“Jared has this,” said a happy Trump. “It’s all worked out.”

7 OK Ok

Trump Tower, next door to Tiffany and now headquarters of a populist revolution,
suddenly seemed like an alien spaceship—the Death Star—on Fifth Avenue. As the great
and good and ambitious, as well as angry protesters and the curious hoi polloi, began
beating a path to the next president’s door, mazelike barricades were hurriedly thrown up
to shield him.

The Pre-Election Presidential Transition Act of 2010 established funding for
presidential nominees to start the process of vetting thousands of candidates for jobs in a
new administration, codifying policies that would determine the early actions of a new
White House, and preparing for the handoff of bureaucratic responsibilities on January 20.
During the campaign, New Jersey governor Chris Christie, the nominal head of the Trump
transition office, had to forcefully tell the candidate that he couldn’t redirect these funds,
that the law required him to spend the money and plan for a transition—even one he did
not expect to need. A frustrated Trump said he didn’t want to hear any more about it.

The day after the election, Trump’s close advisers—suddenly eager to be part of a
process that almost everybody had ignored—immediately began blaming Christie for a
lack of transition preparations. Hurriedly, the bare-bones transition team moved from
downtown Washington to Trump Tower.

This was certainly some of the most expensive real estate ever occupied by a transition
team (and, for that matter, a presidential campaign). And that was part of the point. It sent
a Trump-style message: we’re not only outsiders, but we’re more powerful than you
insiders. Richer. More famous. With better real estate.

And, of course, it was personalized: his name, fabulously, was on the door. Upstairs
was his triplex apartment, vastly larger than the White House living quarters. Here was his
private office, which he’d occupied since the 1980s. And here were the campaign and now
transition floors—firmly in his orbit and not that of Washington and the “swamp.”

Trump’s instinct in the face of his unlikely, if not preposterous, success was the
opposite of humility. It was, in some sense, to rub everybody’s face in it. Washington
insiders, or would-be insiders, would have to come to him. Trump Tower immediately
upstaged the White House. Everybody who came to see the president-elect was
acknowledging, or accepting, an outsider government. Trump forced them to endure what

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019902
