not to react to this heresy.

It was Bannon who held the line, insisting, sternly, that Obamacare was a litmus
Republican issue, and that, holding a majority in Congress, they could not face Republican
voters without having made good on the by now Republican catechism of repeal. Repeal,
in Bannon’s view, was the pledge, and repeal would be the most satisfying, even cathartic,
result. It would also be the easiest one to achieve, since virtually every Republican was
already publicly committed to voting for repeal. But Bannon, seeing health care as a weak
link in Bannonism-Trumpism’s appeal to the workingman, was careful to take a back seat
in the debate. Later, he hardly even made an effort to rationalize how he’d washed his
hands of the mess, saying just, “I hung back on health care because it’s not my thing.”

It was Ryan who, with “repeal and replace,” obfuscated the issue and won over Trump.
Repeal would satisfy the Republican bottom line, while replace would satisfy the
otherwise off-the-cuff pledges that Trump had made on his own. (Pay no attention to the
likelihood that what the president construed as repeal and replace might be very different
from what Ryan construed as repeal and replace.) “Repeal and replace” was a useful
slogan, too, in that it came to have meaning without having any actual or specific
meaning.

The week after the election, Ryan, bringing Tom Price—the Georgia congressman and
orthopedist who had become Ryan’s resident heath care expert—traveled to Trump’s
Bedminster, New Jersey, estate for a repeal and replace briefing. The two men summed up
for Trump—who kept wandering off topic and trying to turn the conversation to golf—
seven years of Republican legislative thinking about Obamacare and the Republican
alternatives. Here was a perfect example of an essential Trump paradigm: he acceded to
anyone who seemed to know more about any issue he didn’t care about, or simply one
whose details he couldn’t bring himself to focus on closely. Great! he would say,
punctuating every statement with a similar exclamation and regularly making an effort to
jump from his chair. On the spot, Trump eagerly agreed to let Ryan run the health care bill
and to make Price the Health and Human Services secretary.

Kushner, largely staying silent during the health care debate, publicly seemed to accept
the fact that a Republican administration had to address Obamacare, but he privately
suggested that he was personally against both repeal alone and repeal and replace. He and
his wife took a conventional Democratic view on Obamacare (it was better than the
alternatives; its problems could be fixed in the future) and strategically believed it was
best for the new administration to get some easier victories under its belt before entering a
hard-to-win or no-win fight. (What’s more, Kushner’s brother Josh ran a health insurance
company that depended on Obamacare.)

Not for the last time, then, the White House would be divided along the political
spectrum, Bannon taking an absolutist base position, Priebus aligned with Ryan in support
of the Republican leadership, and Kushner maintaining, and seeing no contradiction in, a

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020007
