Epilogue:
Evilightenment

Educate your children to self-control, to the habit of holding passion and prejudice and
evil tendencies subject to an upright and reasoning will, and you have done much to
abolish misery from their future and crimes from society.

— Benjamin Franklin

Charles Darwin observed that of all the differences between humans and other animals, one capacity
reigns supreme: we alone have the ability to contemplate what others ought to do. We alone are endowed
with a moral imperative to reflect, consider, and imagine alternatives. We alone are impelled to be
dissatisfied with the status quo, urged to contemplate what could be and ultimately what must be. This
capacity creates a fundamental principle of human existence and enlightenment: we alone invest in the
survival of the /east fit. We give money to those in abject poverty, risk our lives to help others in areas of
conflict, adopt abandoned children, nurture individuals with extreme disabilities, and care for the elderly.
This principle fuels our humanitarian efforts. Sadly, it is a necessary response to another unique
difference between humans and other animals: we alone have the ability to inflict great harms on our own
species and many others. We alone are responsible for creating work for those in the humanitarian sector.
We alone are evil.

We also have an opportunity to begin a new volume of humane history. We have the chance to
harness our understanding of the past in order to present our children with the gift of knowledge and the
prospects of a healthier future. We should— no, we must — teach our children what we have learned
about the causes of corporate corruption, the desire for ethnic cleansing, and the combined forces of
nature and nurture to create excessive suffering and lifeless flesh. These are topics that should be
presented early on in education rather than waiting for heady discussions at the university. We owe the
next generation the best education from our generation. The best education will come from confronting
history, exposing human nature, and supporting cultural variation while fighting to demolish totalitarian
regimes that limit or eliminate basic human rights. I write this sentence following on the eve of Egypt's
inspiring revolution, a revolution led by educated people who refused to allow the dictator Hosni
Mubarak to ruin their country and their children's future. The people of Egypt, like the people of many
countries who rallied in the Arab spring of 2011, refused to be eternal victims. This is a lesson that must
spread to every corner of the globe. It is a lesson of hope. It is a lesson to all evildoers to beware.

I have taken you on a journey into evil’s core, penetrating with scientific evidence and
explanation. Though we have traveled to distant lands, traversed vast spans of time, and encountered
wildly different cultures, the key idea is that this nchness was generated from a few essential ingredients.
This is a minimalist approach to a difficult and highly variegated problem. I end our journey by taking
stock of the essential ideas and reflect on some of the broader implications.

Retracing our steps

In the beginning, before there were bald, bipedal, big-brained, babbling humans, there were hairy,
quadrupedal, bitsy-brained, barking bonobos. These animals, clearly clever, have survived for over 6-7
million years, despite attempts by our species to demolish their habitat. But — and this is a significant

Hauser Epilogue. Evilightenment 144

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012890
