Freedom House

Eurasian countries and elsewhere in the world. While
today there is nothing that resembles the Comintern
of Soviet times, authoritarian countries have devel-
oped an ad hoc network of cooperation that has
proven effective at the United Nations and in regional
bodies like the Organization of American States.

Adapting to survive

Modern authoritarianism matured as regimes sought
to defend themselves against the sorts of civil society
movements that triggered “color revolutions” in
Georgia, Ukraine, and elsewhere in the early 2000s.
On their own, formal opposition parties were relatively
easy to marginalize or co-opt, and traditional mass
media could be brought to heel through pressure on
private owners, among other techniques. But civil
society organizations presented a formidable chal-
lenge in some settings, as they were able to mobilize
the public—especially students and young people—
around nonpartisan reformist goals and use relatively
open online media to spread their messages.

It is now a major objective of modern authoritarian
states to suppress civil society before it becomes
strong enough to challenge the incumbent political
leadership. Yet whereas dissidents were dispatched
to the gulag or explicitly exiled by the Soviets, or jailed
and murdered by traditional dictatorships like Augus-
to Pinochet's Chile, today’s activists are checked by
NGO regulations that control registration and foreign
funding, laws that allow arbitrary restrictions on public
protest, and trumped-up criminal charges for key
organizers that serve to intimidate others.

Modern authoritarianism has also devised special
methods to bring the internet under political control
without shutting it down entirely. While old-style dic-
tatorships like Cuba long prevented the widespread
use of the internet out of fear that online communi-
cations would pose a threat to the state's monopoly
on information, modern authoritarians understood
that a high rate of internet penetration is essential to
participation in the global economy. However, once
online media emerged as a real alternative to tradi-
tional news sources and a crucial tool for civic and
political mobilization, these regimes began to step up
their interference.

The Chinese government has developed the world’s
most sophisticated system of internet controls. Its so-
called Great Firewall, a censorship and filtering appa-
ratus designed to prevent the circulation of informa-
tion that the authorities deem politically dangerous

without affecting nonsensitive information, requires
tremendous financial, human, and technological re-
sources to maintain. Other regimes have not attempt-
ed anything approaching the scale of China's system,
but some have constructed more limited versions or
simply relied on inexpensive offline techniques like
arrests of critical bloggers, direct pressure on the
owners of major online platforms, and new laws that
force internet sites to self-censor.

Alternative values

While modern authoritarians initially mobilized for
defensive purposes, to thwart color revolutions or
the liberal opposition, they have become increasingly
aggressive in challenging the democratic norms that
prevailed in the wake of the Cold War, and in setting
forth a rough set of political values as an alternative
to the liberal model. Examples of this phenomenon
include:

1. Majoritarianism: A signal idea of many author-
itarians is the proposition that elections are
winner-take-all affairs in which the victor has an
absolute mandate, with little or no interference
from institutional checks and balances. Putin,
Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and the
Venezuelan chavista leadership all behave as
if there are no valid controls on their authority,
the opposition has no rights, and the system
is theirs to dismantle and remake from top to
bottom. Disturbingly, the leaders of some dem-
ocratic societies have begun to embrace the
majoritarian idea. The Hungarian prime minister,
Viktor Orban, has instituted a thorough overhaul
of the country's constitution and national leg-
islation with an eye toward measures that will
insulate his party from future defeat.

2. Sovereignty: A number of governments have
invoked the doctrine of absolute sovereignty
to rebuff international criticism of restrictions
on the press, the smothering of civil society,
the persecution of the political opposition, and
the repression of minority groups. They claim
that the enforcement of universal human rights
standards or judgments from transnational legal
bodies represent undue interference in their
domestic affairs and a violation of national pre-
rogatives.

3. Dictatorship of law: Initially articulated by Vlad-
imir Putin, this phrase has come to signify the
adoption of laws that are so vaguely written as to

www.freedomhouse.org

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019241
