10 The Virgin Islands Daily News

The Cuban Scientific Expedition to the
Virgin Islands in 1951 was documented by
archaeologists Oswaldo |. Morales Patiho,
above, and Fernando Royo Guardia, and
subsequently translated and annotated
many years later for the Virgin Islands Ar
chaeological Society in its Journal number
5 (1978) by Alfredo E. Figueredo. Morales
Patifio was president of the National Board
of Archaeology and Ethnology within the
Ministry of Culture and Education from
1951-1955. During that same period, Royo
Guardia served first as secretary and

then treasurer. The visiting Cuban scien-
tists were part of a commission formed,
among other objectives, to study and
identify possible routes through which
prehistoric cultures may have reached
Cuba, to seek evidence of the presence
of common Cuban influences in Jamaica,
Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, and to
ascertain the spread of Carib influence
and identify the culture found by Colum-
bus on St. Croix. Welcomed in the Virgin
Islands by Gov. Morris de Castro, they
visited and examined four sites. On St.
Thomas, they judged the Magens Bay site
to be Arawakan culture with a few Igneri
specimens. Administrator Harry E. Taylor
accompanied the visitors on St. Croix,
where they viewed three more sites:
Christiansted environs where they exam-
ined and collected a number of rimsherds
and shell samples; the Salt River midden,
with its French fort earthworks foundation,
where they were able to excavate pottery,
stone, shell and shell bead specimens;
and Estate Richmond, where they viewed
artifacts, including some Igneri pottery,
obtained by the owners from Salt River
and from an Indian site on the estate. Ac-
cording to Figueredo, the “importance of
this work (by the Cubans) is not due solely
to its reports of archaeological remains,
however; it is also a historical document,
offering us interesting information on the
state of affairs, beliefs, and personalities
of its time. The Cubans came during one
of our minor dark ages — when archaeo-
logical work had come to a near standstill,
and the history and historiography of the
(Virgin Islands) ... were in abject abandon.”

Katheryne Brooks Kay-Willock, archaeologist with the Conservation and
Cultural Affairs Department, studies the remains of what is believed to be
1,000-yearold skeleton located at Hull Bay beach in 1974 in St. Thomas,
at a proposed condominium project.

Tuesday, December 13, 2016

Virgin Islands
laborers excavate
pre-historic deposits
at Magens Bay, St.
Thomas.

Photo courtesy of
THE VIRGIN ISLANDS,
OUR NEW POSSESSIONS

The “ribbon-sealed” bottle, a PF
Heering Company “Heering's
Cherry Cordial” bottle produced
in the period 1835-1850, was
recovered from the harbor in
St. Thomas, where many such
items have been discarded over
the centuries. The Schenectady
(New York) Gazette of Jan. 7,
1981, reported an upcoming
lecture presentation to the Na-
tional Bottle Museum Society in
Ballston Spa, N.Y., on the “Bur
ied Treasures of St. Thomas.”
The newspaper reported that
lecturer Gary T. Stephenson “re-
cently returned from the Virgin
Islands where he provided con-
sulting services to an individual
who has unearthed over 3,000
bottles from an old community
dump. The collection dates
back to 1700. ‘| have never
seen so many bottles come out
of one dig, said Stephenson,
vice president of the museum
society. Bottles in the collection
come from Paris, London, Mar
tinique, Canada, Germany and
the U.S.A. They graphically illus-
trate the history of St. Thomas,
showing evidence of worldwide
trade and commerce. The St.
Thomas collection is considered
to be the fifth largest collection

in the U.S’
Photo courtesy of
VAGN PETERSEN'S DANISH BOTTLES

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014507
