Date: Tue, Apr 21, 2015 at 1:10 PM
Subject:
To: Melanie Spinella - =—t—<“‘i_i‘C~*S
emblematic of my frustration and ,in the end what I believe is a waste of our time energy money and
resources. is the very simple question of bidco bank accounts. 4 months ago I asked the question , does
it have a bank account and if so , who has authority, where is it located and what transacations ran
through it. it is only one question out of hundreds that need to be answered. hundreds. . you asked that i
not behave like Zeus and try to explain why I want need certain things. since i said to placate Brad's
inquisitive ness and his desire to learn I said a filing might be required. instead of merely getting me the
answer. he has talked to joslin paul weiss , you , you wanted to ask brad karp. ( maybe a filing that
reopened things, )

none of this as a practical matter has any influence upon the ultimate action taken . I merely needed to
know a simple answer. and today after asking at least every week since then do not have an answer. I
have been trying not to add stress to your day. 1 try to explain things and take the time to do so gently, (
not my forte . this is one question out of hundreds. the fact that a 21 year old was in the office only
xeroxing for a month, was obvious to everyone in the office. having a 26 year old xeroxing instead doesnt
move us forward, answers first. copying old files. can wait.

Date: Wed, Apr 22, 2015 at 1:56 PM

Subject: another flowery email.

To: Melanie Spinella (Ti -

I am sorry. I realize you are under tremendous stress, In Bedford you asked me for my help I could not
have been more clear that thought it very unwise as in my words I did not want any financial arrangment
between us, it risked conflict and tension what neither of us needed more of. and did not want to risk
torturing our friendship into the likes of the kind you have with Mark nor Josh, : now,- I dont have
anyone but you yelling at me , in my own house. no one. it is highly unpleasant but I am trying my best to
be understanding . sorry. From the outset and as you told me you recall. 1 tsuggested that three years
should be the period of engagment. as planning is not a one year excericse . you declined to commit to a
number of alternatives presented to you for payment of the third year. I told you in nov that you should
decide whether to now sign on for that very third year as the vast majority of my work ended on oct 15.
you recently told me you thought i was kidding. -you hired brad patting him on the back that after months
of inquiry he can now, finallly tell you which llc owns the cars??

once he has all the facts what next ??._ whether or not you refer to a portion of the third year as after
care, or whatever term besides 'scoundrel you choose to use, I m not sure why you assume now it should
be free.( 1 HATE THIS CONVERSATION < HATE , ) andi heard you when you said you told me what
was | work still to be done you thought valuable enough to pay for. please tell me . and then we can
decide the next steps ,,, if any. I consider my work rarefied art. I guess the value is in the eye of the
beholder . IT reminds me of those people looking at a modern art piece and saying  my child could do
that. hope you are feeling better.

Date: Fri, May 1, 2015 at 12:50 AM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella = Cti—‘iCS

ada and brad are respondbile for the loan ,. docs, at a minimum, leon he hasn't read the financial
statements SINCE DEC. !!. impossible ,had he done so the silly numbers jump off the page . ( sent in
another email ). it is a financial office., 190 million sitting unused in CASH , budget and planning person

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023274
