308 17 A Preschool-Based Roadmap to Advanced AGI

in some cases depending on the nature of the task. Here we give a partial task-set for the vir-
tual and robot preschool scenarios discussed in Chapter 16, and a couple example quantitative
metrics just to illustrate what is intended; the creation of a fully detailed roadmap based on
the ideas outlined here is left for future work.

The train of thought presented in this chapter emerged in part from a series of conversa-
tions preceding and during the AGI Roadmap Workshop held at the University of Tennessee,
Knoxville in October 2008. Some of the ideas also trace back to discussions held during two
workshops on Evaluation and Metrics for Human-Level AI organized by John Laird and Pat
Langley (one in Ann Arbor in late 2008, and one in Tempe in early 2009). Some of the conclu-
sions of the Ann Arbor workshop were recorded in [LWMLO9]. Inspiration was also obtained
from discussion at the Future of AGI post-conference workshop of the AGI-09 conference,
triggered by Itamar Arel’s [ARK09a] presentation on the AGI Roadmap theme; and from an
earlier article on AGI Roadmapping by [AL09].

However, the focus of the AGI Roadmap Workshop was considerably more general than the
present chapter. Here we focus on preschool-type scenarios, whereas at the workshop a number
of scenarios were discussed, including the preschool scenarios but also, for example,

Standardized Tests and School Curricula

Elementary, Middle and High School Student

General Videogame Learning

Wozniak’s Coffee Test: go into a random American house and figure out how to make coffee,
and do it

Robot College Student

e General Call Center Respondent

For each of these scenarios, one may generate tasks corresponding to each of the competency
areas we will outline below. CogPrime is applicable in all these scenarios, so our choice to focus
on preschool scenarios is an additional judgment call beyond those judgment calls required to
specify the CogPrime design. The roadmap presented here is a AGI Preschool Roadmap and
as such is a special case of the broader AGI Roadmap outlined at the workshop.

17.2 Measuring Incremental Progress Toward Human-Level AGI

In Chapter 2, we discussed several examples of practical goals that we find to plausibly char-
acterize human level AGI, e.g.

Turing Test

Virtual World Turing Test
Online University Test
Physical University Test
Artificial Scientist Test

We also discussed our optimism regarding the possibility that in the future AGI may advance
beyond the human level, rendering all these goals early-stage subgoals.

However, in this chapter we will focus our attention on the nearer term. The above goals are
ambitious ones, and while one can talk a lot about how to precisely measure their achievement,
we don’t feel that’s the most interesting issue to ponder at present. More critical is to think

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013224
