Table of Contents

BOARD LEADERSHIP STRUCTURE

The following section describes our board leadership structure, the reasons why the structure is in place at this time, the roles of various
positions, and related key governance practices. The mix of experienced independent and management directors that make up our Board, along with the
independent role of our lead director and our independent board-committee composition, benefits Carvana and its stockholders.

INDEPENDENCE; BOARD MIX

Our Board has an effective mix of independent and management directors. It is composed of four independent directors and our current
chairman and chief executive officer, Ernest Garcia III.

LEAD DIRECTOR

The Board believes that it is beneficial to Carvana and its stockholders to designate one of the directors as a lead director who is elected by a
majority of the Board. The lead director serves a variety of roles, including reviewing and approving Board schedules to confirm the appropriate board and
committee topics are reviewed and sufficient time is allocated to each; liaising between our chairman and chief executive officer and non-management
directors when necessary and appropriate (that said, each director has direct and regular access to the chairman and chief executive officer) and calling an
executive session of independent directors at any time consistent with the bylaws and certificate of incorporation. Michael Maroone, an independent
director and member of our Audit Committee, is currently our lead director. Mr. Maroone is an effective lead director for Carvana due to, among other
things, his independence, his board leadership experience with AutoNation, Inc., his strong strategic and financial acumen, his commitment to ethics, his
extensive knowledge of the automotive retail environment, and his deep understanding of Carvana and its business.

CHAIRMAN / CEO

With respect to the roles of chairman and CEO, the corporate governance guidelines provide that the roles may be separated or combined, and
the Board will exercise its discretion in combining or separating these positions as it deems appropriate in light of prevailing circumstances. Mr. Garcia has
been our chairman and CEO since our IPO. The Board believes that combining the roles of chairman and CEO, together with the separate, independent role
of our lead director, is currently the most effective leadership structure because Mr. Garcia has extensive knowledge and experience in a variety of relevant
areas acquired through his professional and other experiences, including automotive retail, e-commerce, consumer finance and strategic planning. This
knowledge and experience give Mr. Garcia the insight necessary to combine the responsibilities of strategic development and execution along with
management of day-to-day operations.

-13-

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024321
