Disclosures
Important Disclosures

FUNDAMENTAL EQUITY OPINION KEY: Opinions include a Volatility Risk Rating, an Investment Rating and an Income Rating. VOLATILITY RISK RATINGS, indicators of potential
price fluctuation, are: A - Low, B - Medium and C - High. INVESTMENT RATINGS reflect the analyst’s assessment of a stock’s: (i) absolute total return potential and (ii)
attractiveness for investment relative to other stocks within its Coverage Cluster (defined below). There are three investment ratings: 1 - Buy stocks are expected to have a total
return of at least 10% and are the most attractive stocks in the coverage cluster; 2 - Neutral stocks are expected to remain flat or increase in value and are less attractive than
Buy rated stocks and 3 - Underperform stocks are the least attractive stocks in a coverage cluster. Analysts assign investment ratings considering, among other things, the 0-12
month total return expectation for a stock and the firm’s guidelines for ratings dispersions (shown in the table below). The current price objective for a stock should be
referenced to better understand the total return expectation at any given time. The price objective reflects the analyst’s view of the potential price appreciation (depreciation).

Investment rating Total return expectation (within 12-month period of date of initial rating) Ratings dispersion guidelines for coverage cluster*
Buy = 10% < 10%
Neutral 20% = 30%
Underperform NIA = 20%

*Ratings dispersions may vary from time to time where BofA Merrill Lynch Research believes it better reflects the investment prospects of stocks in a Coverage Cluster.

INCOME RATINGS, indicators of potential cash dividends, are: 7 - same/higher (dividend considered to be secure), 8 - same/lower (dividend not considered to be secure) and 9 - pays
no cash dividend. Coverage Cluster is comprised of stocks covered by a single analyst or two or more analysts sharing a common industry, sector, region or other classification(s). A stock's
coverage cluster is included in the most recent BofA Merrill Lynch report referencing the stock.

Price charts for the securities referenced in this research report are available at http://pricecharts.baml.com, or call 1-800-MERRILL to have them mailed.

One or more analysts responsible for covering the securities in this report owns options on the financial instrument

BofA Merrill Lynch Research Personnel (including the analyst(s) responsible for this report) receive compensation based upon, among other factors, the overall profitability of Bank of America
Corporation, including profits derived from investment banking. The analyst(s) responsible for this report may also receive compensation based upon, among other factors, the overall
profitability of the Bank’s sales and trading businesses relating to the class of securities or financial instruments for which such analyst is responsible.

Other Important Disclosures

Prices are indicative and for information purposes only. Except as otherwise stated in the report, for the purpose of any recommendation in relation to: (i) an equity security, the price
referenced is the publicly traded price of the security as of close of business on the day prior to the date of the report or, if the report is published during intraday trading, the price referenced is
indicative of the traded price as of the date and time of the report; or (ii) a debt security (including equity preferred and CDS), prices are indicative as of the date and time of the report and are
from various sources including Bank of America Merrill Lynch trading desks.

The date and time of completion of the production of any recommendation in this report shall be the date and time of dissemination of this report as recorded electronically on the platform in
which the report was accessed.

Officers of MLPF&S or one or more of its affiliates (other than research analysts) may have a financial interest in securities of the issuer(s) or in related investments.

BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research policies relating to conflicts of interest are described at http://go.bofa.com/coi.

BofA Merrill Lynch includes Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (‘MLPF&S’) and its affiliates. Investors should contact their BofA Merrill Lynch representative or
Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management financial advisor if they have questions concerning this report. BofA Merrill Lynch and Merrill Lynch are each global brands for BofA
Merrill Lynch Global Research.

Information relating to Non-US affiliates of BofA Merrill Lynch and Distribution of Affiliate Research Reports:

LPF&S distributes, or may in the future distribute, research reports of the following non-US affiliates in the US (short name: legal name, regulator): Merrill Lynch (South Africa): Merrill Lynch
South Africa (Pty) Ltd., regulated by The Financial Service Board; MLI (UK): Merrill Lynch International, regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the Prudential Regulation Authority
PRA); Merrill Lynch (Australia): Merrill Lynch Equities (Australia) Limited, regulated by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission; Merrill Lynch (Hong Kong}: Merrill Lynch (Asia
Pacific) Limited, regulated by the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission (HKSFC) and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA); Merrill Lynch (Singapore): Merrill Lynch (Singapore)
Pte Ltd, regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS); Merrill Lynch (Canada): Merrill Lynch Canada Inc, regulated by the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada;

errill Lynch (Mexico): Merrill Lynch Mexico, SA de CV, Casa de Bolsa, regulated by the Comisién Nacional Bancaria y de Valores; Merrill Lynch (Argentina): Merrill Lynch Argentina SA, regulated
by Comisién Nacional de Valores; Merrill Lynch Japan): Merrill Lynch Japan Securities Co, Ltd. regulated by the Financial Services Agency; Merrill Lynch (Seoul): Merrill Lynch International
ncorporated (Seoul Branch) regulated by the Financial Supervisory Service; Merrill Lynch (Taiwan): Merrill Lynch Securities (Taiwan) Ltd., regulated by the Securities and Futures Bureau; DSP
errill Lynch (India): DSP Merrill Lynch Limited, regulated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India; PT Merrill Lynch (Indonesia): PT Merrill Lynch Indonesia, regulated by Otoritas Jasa
Keuangan (OJK); Merrill Lynch (Israel): Merrill Lynch Israel Limited, regulated by Israel Securities Authority; Merrill Lynch (Russia): O00 Merrill Lynch Securities, Moscow, regulated by the Central
Bank of the Russian Federation; Merrill Lynch (Turkey I.B.}: Merrill Lynch Yatirim Bank AS., regulated by the Capital Markets Board of Turkey; Merrill Lynch (Turkey Broker}: Merrill Lynch Menkul
Degerler AS., regulated by the Capital Markets Board of Turkey; Merrill Lynch (DIFC): Merrill Lynch Intemational (DIFC Branch), regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority (DFSA); Merrill
Lynch (Spain): Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Espana, S.AS.V., regulated by Comisién Nacional del Mercado De Valores; Merrill Lynch (Brazil}: Bank of America Merrill Lynch Banco Multiplo S.A,
regulated by Comissao de Valores Mobiliarios; Merrill Lynch KSA Company, Merrill Lynch Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Company, regulated by the Capital Market Authority.
This information: has been approved for publication and is distributed in the United Kingdom (UK) to professional clients and eligible counterparties (as each is defined in the rules of the FCA
and the PRA) by MLI (UK) and Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited, which are authorized by the PRA and regulated by the FCA and the PRA, and is distributed in the UK to retail
clients (as defined in the rules of the FCA and the PRA) by Merrill Lynch International Bank Limited, London Branch, which is authorized by the Central Bank of Ireland and subject to limited
regulation by the FCA and PRA - details about the extent of our regulation by the FCA and PRA are available from us on request; has been considered and distributed in Japan by Merrill Lynch
(Japan), a registered securities dealer under the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act in Japan; is distributed in Hong Kong by Merrill Lynch (Hong Kong), which is regulated by HKSFC and
HKMA; is issued and distributed in Taiwan by Merrill Lynch (Taiwan); is issued and distributed in India by DSP Merrill Lynch (India); and is issued and distributed in Singapore to institutional
investors and/or accredited investors (each as defined under the Financial Advisers Regulations} by Merrill Lynch International Bank Limited (Merchant Bank) (MLIBLMB) and Merrill Lynch
(Singapore) (Company Registration Nos F 06872E and 198602883D respectively). MLIBLMB and Merrill Lynch (Singapore) are regulated by MAS. Bank of America N.A., Australian Branch (ARBN
064 874 531), AFS License 412901 (BANA Australia) and Merrill Lynch Equities (Australia) Limited (ABN 65 006 276 795), AFS License 235132 (MLEA) distribute this report in Australia only to
‘Wholesale’ clients as defined by s.761G of the Corporations Act 2001. With the exception of BANA Australia, neither MLEA nor any of its affiliates involved in preparing this research report is an
Authorised Deposit-Taking Institution under the Banking Act 1959 nor regulated by the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority. No approval is required for publication or distribution of this
report in Brazil and its local distribution is by Merrill Lynch (Brazil) in accordance with applicable regulations. Merrill Lynch (DIFC is authorized and regulated by the DFSA. Research reports
prepared and issued by Merrill Lynch (DIFC) are done so in accordance with the requirements of the DFSA conduct of business rules. Bank of America Merrill Lynch Intemational Limited,
Frankfurt Branch (BAMLI Frankfurt) distributes this report in Germany and is regulated by BaFin.

This research report has been prepared and issued by MLPF&S and/or one or more of its non-US affiliates. MLPF&S is the distributor of this research report in the US and accepts ful
responsibility for research reports of its non-US affiliates distributed to MLPF&S clients in the US. Any US person receiving this research report and wishing to effect any transaction in any
security discussed in the report should do so through MLPF&S and not such foreign affiliates. Hong Kong recipients of this research report should contact Merrill Lynch (Asia Pacific) Limited in

Bankof America <> ; re
Merrill Lynch Global Equity Volatility Insights |O9 August 2016 25

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026002
