13

Far more worrying, however, than the effect on friends and allies of
the utopian excursion toward global zero is the effect of such
thinking on such dangerous adversaries as Iran and North Korea. Is
there any reason to believe that our embrace of that goal will
discourage them from the vigorous pursuit of nuclear weapons? What
could be more encouraging to Iran than the idea that they will be
getting into the nuclear business just as we are getting out? Imagine
Iran’s supreme council meeting to discuss whether to continue the
costly pursuit of nuclear weapons. “But what is the point of building
these weapons?” asks a skeptical mullah. “We will have one or two
and the Americans have thousands.” Another replies: “Yes, but the
Americans have declared their intention to eliminate nuclear weapons
entirely. They say they have already started down that road. Shultz,
Kissinger, Perry, Nunn, and even Obama himself are committed.
Obama said: ‘We have to insist, yes, we can.’ Did you see them
cheering in Prague? And when they have started getting rid of theirs,
our small arsenal will not seem so puny.”

Of course, proponents of global zero will say that we would never
give up our last nuclear weapons if the Iranians (by that point having
long ago acquired and stockpiled them) did not do the same. This
argument comes close to saying the goal of global zero is a mere
mirage, which leaves one wondering what benefits can be claimed for
chasing it or pretending to believe it is real. International politics is
played out in near real time, and the influence of future events, like
future earnings, is deeply discounted by prudent officials. But one
important point remains: as our nuclear capabilities dwindle, the
value of even a few nuclear weapons rises (toward the end of these
parallel processes, exponentially). This puts a burden on trust and
verification that they simply cannot bear. I was once told by the
prime minister of an important country in Europe that it was all but
impossible to imagine the day when their last nuclear weapon would

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023499
