Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 539-1 Filed 01/06/17 Page 6 of 9

6/14/2016 Case 1:1 5°OreGTd SG RaVS”. Dercurtremt DIGI Filed Oe

Troubled teenager: Virginia on the billionaire's Zorra ranch in New Mexico in 2001

Virginia was fascinated by his life story: the son of a humble New York City parks worker, he was a
teacher before becoming a Wail Street broker and friends with the upper echelons of the political,
financial and academic establishment.

As a confused teenager, Virginia easily fell into the practice of sexually gratifying him for money.
He guaranteed her a minimum of $200 each time she gave him what he called an ‘erotic massage.’

Virginia said: ‘I would always receive the money immediately. He would give me the cash from a wad
he carried in a black duffel bag or an assistant paid me.

‘And, because of the way Epstein had warped her sensibilities, every time she took the cash,
Virginia felt even more indebted to him. Secretly, he was also preparing her for an even more
disturbing role.

‘Basically, | was training to bea prostitute for him
and his friends who shared his interest in young

Epstein had trained me
irls,’ sh : ‘After about two , he started
Baek mets antartain his friends. estene to do whatever men

It started when Epstein called Virginia at the Pam Wanted. | told myself |
Beach apartment he had rented for her. r
was special

She recalls: ‘He said, “I've got a good friend and |
need you to fly to the island to
entertain him, massage him and make him fee! how you make me feel.”

He didn’t spell out what | had to do. He didn’t have to. ‘He'd trained me to do whatever a man
wanted. | was shocked but | told myself he was sharing me around because he trusted me and | was
special.

| was worried, but | would do anything to keep Jeffrey happy and to keep my place as his number
one girl.

He would keep telling me how lucky | was with the life | was leading and the money ! was making. It
was easy to fall into his grasp.

‘The way it usually worked was I’d be sent to meet a man on the private island Jeffrey owned in the
Caribbean, or at his ranch in New Mexico, which was really isolated.’ She was ‘given’ to men ranging
in age from their 40s to their 60s.

They included a well-known businessman (whose pregnant wife was asleep in the next room), a
world-renowned scientist, a respected liberal politician and a foreign head of state.

None appeared to think the arrangement was unusual. Virginia says there were many other girls in
Epstein’s circle and that she was paid extra money to help recruit them.

‘They would lounge around the Palm Beach house, the ranch or the island, nude or topless,’ she
says. ‘But | was one of the very few he trusted as “special” and chosen to “entertain” his friends.’

Virginia took the sedative Xanax to detach herself from sordid reality. ‘lt was an escape drug,’ she
says. ‘It made me caim and helped me forget about what | had to do. | was up to eight pills a day.’

Epstein had no objection to Virginia's use of prescription drugs, no doubt recognising that they made
her even more malleable. ‘I didn’t want to go back to the life I'd had before’ she says.

‘That made me totally obedient.’ Despite the fact that Epstein was, essentially, her pimp, this life now
seemed normal to Virginia. ‘l felt that he and Ghislaine really cared for me,’ she said.

‘We'd do family things, like watch Sex And The City and eat popcorn. ‘A lot of it was very glamorous.
| met famous friends of his such as Al Gore and Heidi Klum and Naomi Campbell. He introduced me
as his “travelling masseuse.”

Some people mistook me for his daughter. ‘When we were in New York or Palm Beach, Ghislaine
and | would shop all day.

hitp:/Avww.dailymail.co.uk/news/article- 1361039/Prince-Andreaw-girl-17-sex-offender-friend-flaw-Britain-meet-him.htm!

Si PaIPgoGret 9

as she leaves her
blouse undone across
her chest during NYC
outing with her children
Mom-offour

e’s almost as tall as
her mom! Gourteney
Cox's daughter Caco
Arquette wears high
heels and polka dot
dress for her 12th
birthday at Nobu

‘it's hard on me: Liev
Schraiber talks struggle
of working in LA while
Naomi Watts and their
two kids are in NYC as
he sits down with Ellen
He misses them

‘twas too big’: Khice
Kardashian reveals
stylists refused to work
with her before she lost
40lbs as she wows in
stunning natural shoot
for Harper's Bazaar

Curb Your Enthusiasm
is back! Larry David's
beloved comedy series
willreturn for a ninth
season
The beloved HBO
comedy series

Super-sized diamond
Hor Majesty calls
‘Granny's Chips’ and the
solitaire seed that grow @
into a flower: Queen's
brooches and earrings
have a glittering history

Sporty! Channing
Tatum wears a
backward baseball cap
and matching vest as he
leaves NYC hotel
The Magic Mike star was
hard to miss

Rollin’ and strollin'!
Chilled Bobby
Cannavatie gets behind
the wheels of baby son
Rocco's classy ride as
he runs errands
Star of HBO's Vinyl

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014664
