prison, followed by 15 months of home confinement. That would be a fraction

of the time he would have to serve if he were to be convicted by a jury.

Epstein's spokesman, Howard Rubenstein, said his client would have no

comment. Dershowitz also declined to comment late yesterday.

Palm Beach police records show that on March 15, 2005, a 14-year-old girl

alleged she had visited Epstein's estate, where she partially stripped and

gave him a massage during which he pulled out a purple vibrator and used it

on her in exchange for $300. A further probe uncovered five young women

who said Epstein had masturbated and touched their genitals during

massages, the records state. A woman named Haley Robson - who

described herself as like a Heidi Fleiss - later admitted bringing six girls

between the ages of 14 and 16 to Epstein's house, according to cops.

Despite the allegations, Epstein was only nailed on a single charge of

soliciting a hooker - but it sparked a federal probe. Epstein's lawyers and

friends have insisted he was the hapless victim of a vendetta by Palm Beach

Police Chief Michael Reiter, whom they described as a born-again nutcase.

Palm Beach Post - 08/14/ 2006

Police chief's reputation helps discredit attacks

By Larry Keller

Palm Beach Post - Monday, August 14, 2006

In the case of Palm Beach financier Jeffrey Epstein, it seems, at times, as if two men are
accused of wrongdoing: Epstein and Palm Beach Police Chief Michael Reiter.

Epstein, 53, was indicted last month on a charge of felony solicitation of prostitution
solely because of Reiter's craziness, one of Epstein's lawyers said. His department
disseminated a distorted view of the case and behaved in a childish manner when the
grand jury didn't indict Epstein on the charges it sought, another Epstein lawyer
complained.

To hear the Epstein camp tell it, Reiter, 48, is a loose cannon better suited to be the
sheriff of Mayberry. They whisper that he's embroiled in a messy divorce.

Reiter did in fact file for divorce from his wife, NAME REMOVED), last year, after 24
years of marriage. They have a son, 18, and a daughter, 14. The couple is scheduled to go
to mediation next week, Aug. 16. Nothing in the court file suggests their split is
particularly ugly.

Reiter incurred the wrath of the Epstein camp as well as the state attorney's office for two
reasons. First, he pressed for Epstein to be charged with the more serious crimes of
sexual activity with minors. Second, he slammed State Attorney Barry Krischer in blunt
language seldom used by one law-enforcement official concerning another because of
what he perceived as that office's mishandling of the case.

In a letter to Krischer written May 1, Reiter called his actions in the Epstein case highly
unusual. He added, I must urge you to... consider if good and sufficient reason exists to
require your disqualification from the prosecution of these cases. In short, Reiter told
the county's top prosecutor for the past 13 years that he ought to get off the case. It
looks like a departure from professionalism, Miami-Dade State Attorney Katherine

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021770
