14.4 Implications of Patternist Philosophy for Derived Hypergraphs of Intelligent Systems 275

structure, and that in highly intelligent systems they should have subgraphs that constitute
models of the whole hypergraph (these are self systems). SMEPH does not add anything to
the patternist view on a philosophical level, but it gives a concrete instantiation to some of the
general ideas of patternism. In this section we’ll articulate some SMEPH principles, consti-
tuting important ideas from patternist philosophy as they manifest themselves in the SMEPH
context.

The logical edges in a SMEPH hypergraph are weighted with probabilities, as in the simple
example given above. The functional edges may be probabilistically weighted as well, since some
Schema may give certain results only some of the time. These probabilities are critical in terms
of SMEPH’s model of system dynamics; they underly one of our SMEPH principles,

Principle of Implicit Probabilistic Inference: In an intelligent system, the temporal
evolution of the probabilities on the edges in the system’s derived hypergraph should approxi-
mately obey the rules of probability theory.

The basic idea is that, even if a system - through its underlying dynamics - has no explicit
connection to probability theory, it still must behave roughly as if it does, if it is going to be
intelligent. The roughly part is important here; it’s well known that humans are not terribly
accurate in explicitly carrying out formal probabilistic inferences. And yet, in practical contexts
where they have experience, humans can make quite accurate judgments; which is all that’s
required by the above principle, since it’s the contexts where experience has occurred that will
make up a system’s derived hypergraph.
Our next SMEPH principle is evolutionary, and states

Principle of Implicit Evolution: In an intelligent system, new Schema and Concepts will
continually be created, and the Schema and Concepts that are more useful for achieving system
goals (as demonstrated via probabilistic implication of goal achievement) will tend to survive
longer.

Note that this principle can be fulfilled in many different ways. The important thing is that
system goals are allowed to serve as a selective force.

Another SMEPH dynamical principle pertains to a shorter time-scale than evolution, and
states

Principle of Attention Allocation: In an intelligent system, Schema and Concepts that
are more useful for attaining short-term goals will tend to consume more of the system’s energy.
(The balance of attention oriented toward goals pertaining to different time scales will vary from
system to system.)

Next, there is the
Principle of Autopoesis: In an intelligent system, if one removes some part of the system
and then allows the system’s natural dynamics to keep going, a decent approximation to that

removed part will often be spontaneously reconstituted.

And there is the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013191
