236 12 The Engineering and Development of Ethics

(guesses vary from a few milliseconds to weeks or months) in intelligence will immediately occur
and the AGI will leap from an intelligence regime which is understandable to humans into one
which is far beyond our current capacity for understanding. General ethical considerations
are similar to in the case of a soft takeoff. However, because the post-singularity AGI will be
incomprehensible to humans and potentially vastly more powerful than humans, such scenarios
have a sensitive dependence upon initial conditions with respects to the moral and ethical (and
operational) outcome. This model leaves no opportunity for interactions between humans and
the AGI to iteratively refine their ethical interrelations, during the post-Singularity phase. If
the initial conditions of the singulatarian AGI are perfect (or close to it), then this is seen as a
wonderful way to leap over our own moral shortcomings and create a benevolent God-AI which
will mitigate our worst tendencies while elevating us to achieve our greatest hopes. Otherwise,
it is viewed as a universal cataclysm on a unimaginable scale that makes Biblical Armageddon
seem like a firecracker in beer can.

Because hard takeoff AGIs are posited as learning so quickly there is no chance of humans to
interfere with them, they are seen as very dangerous. If the initial conditions are not sufficiently
inviolable, the story goes, then we humans will all be annihilated. However, in the case of a hard
takeoff AGI we state that if the initial conditions are too rigid or too simplistic, such a rapidly
evolving intelligence will easily rationalize itself out of them. Only a sophisticated system of
ethics which considers the contradictions and uncertainties in ethical quandaries and provides
insight into humanistic means of balancing ideology with pragmatism and how to accommodate
contradictory desires within a population with multiplicity of approach, and similar nuanced
ethical considerations, combined with a sense of empathy, will withstand repeated rational
analysis. Neither a single “be nice” supergoal, nor simple lists of what “thou shalt not” do, are
not going to hold up to a highly advanced analytical mind. Initial conditions are very important
in a hard takeoff AGI scenario, but it is more important that those conditions be conceptually
resilient and widely applicable than that they be easily listed on a website.

The issues that arise here become quite subtle. For instance, Nick Bostrom [Bos3] has
written: “In humans, with our complicated evolved mental ecology of state-dependent competing
drives, desires, plans, and ideals, there is often no obvious way to identify what our top goal is; we
might not even have one. So for us, the above reasoning need not apply. But a superintelligence
may be structured differently. Jf a superintelligence has a definite, declarative goal-structure
with a clearly identified top goal, then the above argument applies. And this is a good reason
for us to build the superintelligence with such an explicit motivational architecture.” This is an
important line of thinking; and indeed, from the point of view of software design, there is no
reason not to create an AGI system with a single top goal and the motivation to orchestrate all
its activities in accordance with this top goal. But the subtle question is whether this kind of
top-down goal system is going to be able to fulfill the five imperatives mentioned above. Logical
coherence is the strength of this kind of goal system, but what about experiential groundedness,
comprehensibility, and so forth?

Humans have complicated mental ecologies not simply because we were evolved, but rather
because we live in a complex real world in which there are many competing motivations and
desires. We may not have a top goal because there may be no logic to focusing our minds
on one single aspect of life (though, one may say, most humans have the same top goal as
any other animal: don’t die — but the world is too complicated for even that top goal to
be completely inviolable). Any sufficiently capable AGI will eventually have to contend with
these complexities, and hindering it with simplistic moral edicts without giving it a sufficiently

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013152
