KSI Board of Directors

Les Biller, Director
See KUE Advisory Board section for complete biography.

Ralph Finerman, Director

Mr. Finerman became a director of KLC in 1999. Mr. Finerman is the President of RFG Financial Group,
Inc., a position he has held since 1994. Mr. Finerman is a CPA and an attorney and practiced in New
York prior to forming RFG Financial Group, Inc. in 1994. Mr. Finerman also serves as a director of
Nextera Enterprises, Inc. and as an officer or director of other privately-held affiliates of KLC and Krest
LLC.

Stephen Goldsmith, Director
See KUE Management section for complete biography.

Steven Green, Director
See KUE Management section for complete biography.

Stanley E. Maron, Director

Mr. Maron became a director of KLC in 2004. Mr. Maron is a senior shareholder in the law firm of Maron
& Sandler, a position he has held since September 1994. Mr. Maron is also a director of LeapFrog
Enterprises, Inc. and Nextera Enterprises, Inc., and serves as an officer or director of various other
privately-held affiliates of KLC and Krest LLC.

Loweil Milken, Director
See KUE Management section for complete biography.

Wendi Murdoch, Director

Wendi Murdoch is currently an advisor to News Corporation on its business development in the Asia
Pacific region. Mrs. Murdoch is responsible for identifying and evaluating business opportunities in new
media and the Internet, managing relationships with government organizations and officials, recruiting
personnel and locating local partners. Previously, she served as the Vice President of News
Corporation's Asian satellite network, the Hong Kong based Star TV. In that capacity she was
instrumental in formulating STAR Sports and ESPN Asia. Mrs, Murdoch holds a Bachelors degree in
economics from California State University at Northridge and an MBA from Yale University.

Jeff Safchik, Director
See KUE Management section for complete biography.

Richard Sandler, Director
See KUE Management section for complete biography.

156

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024589
