Jeffrey wanted his evening massage before bed and Ghislane and
Emmy went to their office to talk about something, leaving our guest of
honor to find company elsewhere. Strolling into the darkness with two
beautiful girls around either arm, Bill seemed content to retire for the
evening. He wanted to have a hot bath before bed while I began the
massage in the tub. Starting with his feet and calves, he wanted to end the
night quickly. Never showing any restraint he sat up on the edge of the
tub and asked me to preform on him orally. I did my job, but that’s all our
relationship was these days, a dreadful job. Getting it over and done with
as quick as possible was my hope but I couldn’t let him pick up on those
vibes, to make him enticed I had to act like his little porn star, knowing
exactly how he wanted it. Only then would my duties be fulfilled and I
would be able to get back the reality of my complicated life. Before I
could say goodnight, Jeffrey had one more request. He wanted me to tuck
him under the blankets and fluff his pillows for him. Then I had to reach
under the covers and massage his feet while watching him fall asleep, he
even wanted me to wait like twenty minutes or so after he fell asleep
before | could leave. It wasn’t unusual for him to ask it but God I hated it,
never offering it | would always wait for him to request it. Once he was
snoring gently I wiped my hands clean of the lotion and quietly closed the
doors to his room. Making my way up the outdoor spiraling staircase, I
felt the breeze blow through my hair and looked up to the heavens. The
stars shown so bright out here in the middle of nowhere with no big city
lights to hinder their effect I could get lost in time staring into them. No
matter how far gone I really felt there was always something about a
simple caress from the wind or the reflection of the star sweeping sky in
the black glossy ocean that would always remind me of my fond love of
nature’s blessings.

Back in New York, there was nothing left of nature to adorn. It was a
dwelling for those who no longer saw the use for trees without cages or
blue skies without clouds of man made fumes and gases. Unfortunately if
we weren’t in the Caribbean, we were there in New York. Hardly going
back to Palm Beach, barely even seeing my family, my dog or T.J these
days at all. In my parents heads I was all grown up and educated in the
world of wealth not needing them any longer they would just wait for my
call once in a while to let them know how I was doing and that was the
extent to our restricted relationship. The road my life has led down never
has kept me close to home anyways so to me it wasn’t anything
unordinary but still a sad existence to be without a family of my own. It
would’ve been nice to be missed though, rarely letting myself think like
that. No room for pity in my heart, if I did, the floodgates could open and
I'd have enough grief in one lifetime to go around a few times that they
would’ve never been closed.

111

J Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL - GIUFFRE004244

Jeffrey’s business was running well from the looks of his attentiveness
the office he owned in the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Alan
Dershowitz, his colleague in finances and personal solicitor, a bird of the
same feather, I had seen hanging around the island and Jeffrey’s
Manhattan mansion, more and more these days. Alan’s taste for the
young and beautiful was a bias for a blooming business relationship
between him and Jeffrey. After an explicit session of Jeffrey’s vulgar
pilgrimage into my body, we were interrupted by a knock at the door by
Jeffrey’s good friend, Alan. I wrapped myself up in Jeffrey’s pink bed
sheets, which is the color preference he chose to sleep in because it
reminded him of the same color of his own words Pussy”, and covered
my face from the unexpected intrusion. Jeffrey got up and wrapped a
towel around his loins and answered the door completely calm. Opening
the bedroom door and letting Alan inside they began to converse about
business immediately, right in front of me. Jeffrey started to tell Alan
what needed to be done while he jostled some notes down quickly. |
peeked my head from underneath the covers thinking they were too
wrapped up in their work to notice me get up and dressed, and Jeffrey
turned back to me and told me to just stay there this would only take a
second. Going back to Alan he turned his focus back into work and
hustled out a few more orders before letting Alan out of the door and
returning his attention to me.

“Sorry about that, work never stops and neither will the money coming
in. How else am | going to make a million dollars while I’m sleeping?”
Jeffrey chuckled as he sat back down on the bed next to me. | laughed at
his humorous and mostly true statement, then a strand of hair fell in front
of my face. Before L could get to it he put it back behind my ears and
sweetly stroked my face, for a moment we just looked into each other’s
eyes and he nearly seemed almost human to me. It was bizarre how he
could be so kind and gentle one moment and the second beforehand | was
being treated like no more than a common plaything left out for display.
Nothing more than an ego trip, Jeffrey got off on letting the ones he
wanted to know that he could own anything and anyone he wanted in this
world. Maybe for a brief minute I believed the sincerity behind his eyes
but that vision would quickly fade away and I would be left second-
guessing why I even fell for his deceitful tricks for a moment.

Jeffrey got up from the bed and asked me to join him for a shower. In
his bedroom, which was the entire top floor, he had a glass shower
enclosed underneath a glass skylight right in the middle of the room. It
was perfectly accessible feature for a man that loved both being clean and
nude, but still an odd feature at that. As I always did whenever 1
showered with him, | lathered a loofa with soapsuds and would scrub his
body, up and down, in between his toes, even behind his ears and of

1 Copyright Protected Material

GIUTVRE004245

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021200
