4.2.12
WC: 191694

In order to get out of the conspiracy, according to the government, Reems was obliged “to take
up affirmative actions to defeat and destroy the conspiracy.” But what could Reems have done?
He could not have “exposed” the crime, as one might expose a secret conspiracy, since everyone
knew that Deep Throat was being distributed throughout the world. He could not have prevented
the distribution and exhibition of the film, since he retained no legal rights to it. The prosecutor
apparently expected him to physically destroy the thousands of prints of Deep Throat that were
then in theaters and on video.

The jury, selected from residents of Memphis, a city proud of being called “the buckle of the Bible
Belt,” convicted Reems and his co-conspirators and Harry went off in search of an appellate
lawyer. Because of my involvement in the I Am Curious Yellow case, he called me.

When we first met, Reems described himself to me as “a nice Jewish boy earning his livelihood by
doing what lots of people would pay to do.” He was born in Scarsdale, New York, with the
name Herbert Streicker, attended the University of Pittsburgh, dropped out, joined the Marines,
and later set out to become a stage actor. He had performed with the La Mama troupe, the New
York Theater Ensemble, and the National Shakespeare Company in New York City. He had even
done a Wheaties commercial. During Christmas of 1969, “when things got rough and there was
no work around...,a fellow said he knew where I could make $75 doing a stag film.” He
nervously accepted and reported for work. His two female costars, both doctoral students in
sociology at NYU, put him at ease, and he completed several “loops.” Streicher was successful,
not so much because of his looks or size, but rather because of his extraordinary ability to perform
repeatedly on cue. In a business where time is money and the major cause of delay is male
incapacity, a porno actor capable of filming several sequences in one day’s shooting is in demand.

Streicker told me how he ended up as the male star of Deep Throat. He had been hired—at $150
per day—as a sound and lighting technician for a sex film being shot near Miami, Florida, in
January 1972. When the original male lead failed to appear, the director, Gerard Damiano, asked
Streicker to fill in—at a $50 cut in salary. Since it took only one day to shoot the film’s sex shots,
he earned only $100 for his performance. His contract did not call for royalties. When the
filming was completed, Streicker’s role in the enterprise was over: he did not participate in the
editing or distribution of the film—not to mention its enormous profits. Even his stage name
“Harry Reems’—with some vague sexual allusion in mind—was picked by the director, without
even consulting Streicker. He was pleased, of course, that the film was well-received and widely
shown. He retained “Harry Reems” as his professional name, and performed in several other sex
films. But his role in Deep Throat was over, or so he thought, until he was arrested two years
later in his Greenwich Village apartment. An FBI agent handed him a warrant requiring his
presence in Memphis, Tennessee, a city that Streicker had never even visited.

The prosecuting attorney was a young Bible Belt fundamentalist named Larry Parrish. (The
names of all the participants sounded like puns: Reems, Streicker, Lovelace, Parrish.) Parrish
was dubbed by the press as “Mr. Clean,” “The Memphis Heat,” and “the Memphis Smut Raker.”
A born-again Christian, and an elder in the First Evangelical Church, Parrish believed that
pornography was the bane of modern America. He once told a reporter, “I’d rather see dope on
the streets than these movies,” explaining that drugs could be cleansed from the body, but
pornography’s damage was “permanent.” When asked why be became a prosecutor, Parrish cited

107

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017194
