with the knowledge of being able to help out in some way. ! had to tell
my story no matter how shameful it was to even speak about. Putting my
shame aside I had to derive every bit of courage I could sustain and now I
am ready to tell it. The hardest lesson I had failed at learning until later
on in my life became my strength, the belief in my inner voice and the
ability to speak up. I do have a voice and now the world is going to hear
it in my whispered cries for justice. Swept away by a surge of media with
one phone call I sent Jeffrey’s publicist into frenzy. Not to mention the
release of the photos showing the first night that Prince Andrew and I
shared together that I so happened to unveil for the public to see.

I spent too much of my life going out of my mind waiting for the
rescue that never came until it was too late and then the scars were
already imbedded deeply within. Thankfully I am now free from the
struggles that nearly destroyed the love inside of my heart. I only wish it
could be the same for the other victims, not just of Jeffrey’s inflictions
but every person who has ever suffered at the hands of another.

I’m here to tell you from my own experience that the moon is yours if
that’s what you want, all you have to do is stand up and take it. If some
girl off the streets of Florida, like me, can stand up against the tyrants that
run the deep pockets of our world, than anyone can. Just like I needed to
believe that someone stood up for me once like Robbie did long ago, I
now stand up for us. For all of us girls, the ones who are still on the
streets and think they don’t deserve better or it’s an unachievable dream
to be entitled to more out of life. For all of the beautiful girls who don’t
see beyond they’re outside appearance. For all the girls still trapped in
enslavement and unable to get out of the abuse that holds them down. But
most of all, I stand up for every girls belief in love, because it is the very
savior of my spirit and soul.

The End

Written and Illustrated by Virginia Roberts

139 140

Ti Copyright Protected Material O Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL, GIUFFRE004272 CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004273

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021214
