Summary

Global growth
is showing
broad-based
signs of
improvement.

2 UBS

Economy

Global growth is showing broad-based signs of improvement, supported by decisive
monetary policy from the world's major central banks. In the US, the housing market
recovery continues and the labor market remains on a modest uptrend. This has helped
improve the sentiment of US consumers, and consumption remains the most important
contributor to US GDP growth. Growth has also begun to pick up in key areas of the
emerging markets, including China and Brazil. While the Eurozone economy remains weak,
we expect Q3 2012 to mark the bottom, and that growth will begin to get less bad from
Q4 2012.

Equities

Equity markets have been supported by central bank action and the recent improvements
in economic data. Our preferred markets remain the US and Emerging Markets (EM).
Investor funds have started to flow back into EM, as economic data is improving and
inflation remains under control. Canada and Australia remain our least favored regions
due to falling earnings.

Fixed Income

US high yield bonds remain supported by strong corporate fundamentals, modest
economic growth, and the broad demand for yield-generating assets. Given this, we see
potential for further spread tightening. Meanwhile, benchmark rates are expected to rise
gradually on better economic data, while short rates remain ultra-low. While investment
grade corporate bond spreads are approximately fair value, we continue to view their
absolute yields as attractive.

Commodities

We keep a neutral stance on commodities. Increased global liquidity has pushed prices up
over the last few months, however, for a more sustained price increase we likely need to
see further evidence of an acceleration in global growth.

Foreign Exchange

We remain underweight the Japanese yen. The Japanese economy continues to weaken
against its peers, leading to rising pressure for the Bank of Japan to engage in further
quantitative easing. We have closed our preference for the Canadian dollar following its
recent strength, and therefore close our offsetting short CHF position.

Please see important disclaimer and disclosures at the end of the document.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025250
