By Al Bayan newspaper

How do you foresee the impact of the unified GGC currency on UAE’s economy?

It will have a positive impact on all GCC countries economies. The currency is a federal issue, and the UAE has
been very enthusiastic about the unified currency and showed interest in hosting the GCC Central Bank.
By Al Bayan newspaper

How do you evaluate the experience of the women whom you empowered to assume
administrative and legislative roles in the UAE?

The experience has been very successful and most of those women have demonstrated remarkable commitment
and significant competency in performing their duties and fulfilling their responsibilities. They have also
proven that the UAE woman is completely reliable and worthy of trust in all leadership and non-leadership
positions.

By Al Bayan newspaper

What was the response of the UAE health authorities following your direct criticism of
doctors’ professional competencies and your urging that medical services across the
country be enhanced?

There has been remarkable progress in quality of health care services, which still fall short of our expectations.
I totally appreciate that pulling together loose ends to rectify mixed processes accumulated over long years
takes time. Yet, efforts are now underway to develop the healthcare sector and work is progressing in the right
direction. Competition resulting from the growing presence of private healthcare organizations has reflected
positively on the overall medical performance in the country. I believe all private=2 Oand public sector doctors
will live up to international best practices very soon.

Emirates Business 24/7

There has been increasing federalism in the handling of the financial needs of the
Emirates, which has been hailed as a good step forward. How do you see this evolving in
future?

The UAE follows unified legislative, financial and fiscal systems. Federal authorities, led by the UAE Central
Bank and the Ministry of Finance, assume full responsibility of developing and implementing these systems.
Measures adopted by the UAE government in response to the global financial crisis only reflect conditions of
the UAE market, which has been around for the last 35 years since the Fiscal Council was first established. The
UAE government’s swift action to address impacts of the global financial crisis has amazed many people. It is
important to remember that the UAE’s response to previous crises, such as the real-estate crisis of the early
1980s, has always been carried out at the federal level. The increased federalism that you refer to in your
question is yet another proof that the federation is getting stronger.

Emirates Business 24/7

Many laws including the Federal Companies Law have been under scrutiny for a long
time. Do you feel there is a need for faster amendments to federal laws to meet today’s
economic and social needs of the country?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024953
