32

historical connections and responsibilities as “sons and daughters of the Yellow Emperor”
to support the PRC’s goals and the “China Dream.” As Xi Jinping™ described it in a 2014
speech to the Seventh Conference of Overseas Chinese Associations, “The Rejuvenation of
the Chinese Nation is a Dream shared by all Chinese” [emphasis added]. In January 2018,
Politburo member and former state counselor and foreign minister Yang Jiechi made this
presumption even clearer when he called upon the government to expand and strengthen
“Overseas Chinese Patriotic Friendly Forces” in the service of the “Great Rejuvenation” of
the Chinese nation.

In addition to appealing to the cultural affinities of Chinese Americans, the Chinese
government has also implemented a wide range of programs to strengthen ties with

elite members of this community. China has appointed hundreds of Chinese Americans
to positions in its united front organizations and provided thousands with free trips to
China, during which they have been feted by senior united front officials. In some cases,
Chinese Americans are offered senior positions in united front organizations. For example,
in 2013, one Chinese American, a native of Guangdong Province, became the first and
only foreigner to become a vice president of the Chinese Overseas Friendship Association
(COFA).””

China has used this tactic of handing out what one senior Chinese American called
“honors” to Chinese Americans as a way for united front departments, and even
espionage agencies, to cultivate contacts in the United States, often to the detriment of
other groups—such as Tibetans, Taiwanese independence supporters, supporters of the
Republic of China, Uighurs, prodemocracy activists, and other independent Chinese
voices with which the Party does not agree. Chinese Americans appointed to such
positions in organizations established by the Communist Party have subsequently led
protests against Taiwan and Tibet and participated in campaigns to silence Chinese
dissidents, such as the exiled billionaire Guo Wengui. For example, a Chinese American
who is a vice president of COFA spearheaded a campaign against Guo that was encouraged
by officials from the PRC. On a video posted to YouTube, this individual is seen railing
against Guo, vowing that he will “not rest” until Guo is returned to China to answer
charges against him.

United Front organizations in China have been surprisingly aggressive and transparent

in their public tasking of Chinese Americans to carry out activities that support the PRC
policies. One example occurred after the 19th Party congress in October 2017. The state-
owned Fujian Daily reported on November 24, 2017, that representatives of local Chinese
community associations based in the United States, Australia, the Philippines, and Europe
had gathered in Fujian and received letters of appointment from local provincial and city
United Front agencies in China to serve officially as “overseas propaganda agents” on their
return to their home countries. These commissions obliged them to accept responsibility for
promoting the decisions of the Party’s recent national congress in their home countries. The

The Chinese American Community

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020491
