June 27, 2013

deduction unnecessary in the majority of
cases. However, as Windsor showed, it is
a valuable tax benefit for larger estates.

Many same-sex married couples may find
it valuable to revisit their estate plans to

make certain that interests passing to the
other spouse qualify for the marital de-

duction and other tax benefits.

Portability. The American Taxpayer Relief
Act of 2012 extended permanently the con-
cept of portability, which generally allows
the estate of a surviving spouse to utilize the
unused portion of the estate tax applicable
exclusion amount of his or her last prede-
ceased spouse. Because of DOMA, only
opposite-sex married couples could take ad-
vantage of portability.

IMPACT. The Supreme Courts decision
presumably enables same-sex married
couples to take advantage of portability as
part of their estate planning. The IRS is

expected to issue guidance.

Gifts. Because of DOMA, only opposite-
sex married couples were allowed to “split”
gifts to take advantage of a doubled annual
gift tax exclusion ($14,000 for 2013, for
a total tax-free gift of $28,000). DOMA
presented even more of a disadvantage
for same-sex married couples in that only
transfers between spouses, where both in-
dividuals are U.S. citizens, are allowed an
unlimited gift tax exclusion under Code
Sec. 2523.

IMPACT. Same-sex married couples can
now presumably transfer assets between
themselves with no concern of lifetime gift
tax consequences. This creates consider-
ably greater flexibility for estate planning.
The IRS is expected to issue guidance.

COMMENT. Gifts to cover medical and
education expenses for an individual, if
paid directly to the medical or education
provider, are gift tax free without limit
and are not counted against the annual
$14,000 exclusion for any individual.

COMMENT. Where one Spouse is not a
U.S. citizen, the annual exclusion from

gift taxes for gifts made to the noncitizen
spouse is $143,000 for 2013.

EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

Perhaps in no area outside of income taxes is
the impact of the Supreme Court’s decision
more expansive than on employee benefits.
Because of DOMA, employers that allow an
employee to add his or her same-sex spouse
to their health plan had to impute income
to the employee for federal income tax pur-
poses equal to the fair market value of health
coverage provided to the same-sex spouse.
If the same-sex spouse qualified as a depen-
dent, this rule did not apply. DOMA also
precluded same-sex married couples from
sharing the same benefits of health flexible
spending accounts, health savings accounts
and health reimbursement arrangements
available to opposite-sex married couples.

IMPACT. Employers in states that allow
same-sex marriage will presumably need
to amend plans to cover same-sex married
spouses. The IRS is expected to provide guid-
ance on the timing of plan amendments, in-
cluding the issue of whether benefits need to
be made retroactive or only prospective from

the date of the Windsor decision.

Domestic Partners. Many employee ben-
efit plans in the private and public sectors
refer to domestic partners rather than same-
The definition of domestic

In some cases, it may en-

Sex spouses.
partner varies.
compass opposite-sex domestic partners as
well as same-sex domestic partners.

COMMENT. The federal governments
Office of Personnel Management defines
domestic partner for purposes of federal
employee benefits as a committed relation-
ship between two adults, of the same sex.

Tax Treatment. Domestic partners who are
not married under state law are not treated
as spouses for federal income tax purposes.
As a result, an employee must continue
to pay taxes on the fair market value of
the coverage for the employee's domestic
partner (whether the domestic partner is a

same-sex partner or an opposite-sex part-
ner). However, domestic partner benefits
are tax-free if the employee's partner quali-
fies as a dependent under Code Sec. 152;
that is, if benefits are paid for a person who
meets the following requirements:

m Receives more than half of his or her
support from the taxpayer for the year.

m Uses the taxpayer's home as the principal
abode and is a member of the taxpayer's
household during the entire tax year.

m Is in a relationship with the taxpayer
that is not a violation of local law.

IMPACT. The Supreme Courts decision
may open the window to refunds of taxes
paid by employees on income imputed to
employees for same-sex married spouse
and refunds of payroll taxes paid by em-
ployers on that income. FICA tax refund
claims by employers and employees for
prior, open years may also be possible.

COMMENT. Some employers have at-
tempted to equalize the treatment be-
tween opposite-sex couples and same-sex
couples by providing so-called gross-ups
to cover the additional taxes that same-
sex couples pay on health benefits. Many
employers require an employee to certify
that a domestic partner qualifies as a de-
pendent under Code Sec. 152.

Cafeteria Plans. Employer contributions to
a cafeteria plan are usually made under a sal-
ary reduction agreement between the employer
and the employee in which the employee agrees
to contribute a portion of his or her salary on
a pre-tax basis to pay for the qualified benefits.
Salary reduction contributions are not actually
or constructively received by the participant.
Therefore, those contributions are not consid-
ered wages for federal income tax purposes. In
addition, those sums generally are not subject to
FICA and FUTA taxes. However, pre-tax dol-
lars could not be used to pay for coverage of a
same-sex spouse because of DOMA. This now
should change as a result of the Court's decision.

Health Flexible Spending Accounts. A
health flexible spending arrangement (FSA)

CCH Tax Briefing

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029311
