SEC & FINRA RELEASE 2017 EXAM PRIORITIES

BY DANIEL G. VIOLA

The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”)
released their Exam Priorities for 2017. The SEC's
2017 priorities are organized around the following
areas: (1) examining matters of importance to retail
investors; (2) focusing on risks specific to elderly
and retiring investors; and (3) assessing market-
wide risks. FINRA also issued its 2017 Regulatory
and Examinations Priorities Letter, which identifies
compliance, supervision and risk management as
areas of focus. FINRA will be introducing a compli-
ance calendar and a directory of service providers
as tools to assist firms. FINRA will also be initiating
electronic, off-site reviews to supplement traditional
on-site cycle examinations. These off-site exams will
affect only a select group of firms that are not cur-
rently scheduled for a cycle exam in 2017.

The SEC priorities address issues across a vari-
ety of financial institutions, including investment
advisers, investment companies, broker-deal-
ers, transfer agents, clearing agencies, private
fund advisers, national securities exchanges
and municipal advisers. Under each category, a
number of key exam areas include:

—

. Protecting Retail Investors:

mw Electronic Investment Advice
Wrap Fee Program
m Exchange-Traded Funds
m Never-Before Examined Investment Advisers
m Recidivist Firms and Their Employees
ai)
fa

Multi-Branch Advisers
Share Class Selection

2. Focusing on Senior Investors and
Retirement Investments:
m RelIRE— Retirement-Targeted Industry
Reviews and Examinations
m Public Pension Advisers
m Senior Investors

3. Assessing Market-Wide Risks:
m Money Market Funds
m Payment for Order Flow
m Clearing Agencies
m FINRA
m Regulation Systems Compliance and Integrity
m Cybersecurity
m National Securities Exchanges
m Anti-Money Laundering

4. Other Initiatives:
m Municipal Advisers
m Transfer Agents
m Private Fund Advisers

The FINRA Examination Priorities Letter includes
a long list of topics that FINRA will prioritize this
year, including product suitability, excessive and
short-term trading of long-term products, outside
business activities, social media and electronic
communications, liquidity risk, credit risk poli-
cies, cybersecurity, segregation of client assets,
Regulation SHO, and anti-money laundering and
suspicious activity monitoring.

FINRA’s Top Five Exam Priorities Include:
m High-Risk and Recidivist Brokers
m Bad Sales Practices
m Practices that Lead to Financial Risk
m Conduct that Enhances Operational Risks
m Market Manipulation
To read the SEC & FINRA’s 2017 Exam Priorities,
please go to the links below:

https://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ocie/
national-examination-program-priorities-2017.pdf

http: //www.finra.org/sites/default/files/2017-
regulatory-and-examination-priorities-letter. pdf

Daniel G. Viola is a Partner and the Head of the Regulatory
and Compliance Group. He structures and organizes broker-
dealers, investment advisers, funds and regularly counsels
investment professionals in connection with regulatory and
cofporate matters. Mr. Viola served as a Senior Compliance
Examiner for the Northeast Regional Office of the SEC, where
he worked from 1992 through 1996. During his tenure at
the SEC, Mr. Viola worked on several compliance inspection
projects and enforcement actions involving examinations
of registered investment advisers, ensuring compliance
with federal and state securities laws. Mr. Viola’s examina-
tion experience includes financial statement, performance
advertising, and disclosure document reviews, as well as,
analysis of investment adviser and hedge fund issues aris-
ing under ERISA and blue sky laws. Dan can be reached at
212.573.8038, or dviola@ sglawyers.com.

Gregory Hartmann Joins Sadis & Goldberg’s Corporate and
Financial Services Practices

Sadis & Goldberg LLP is
proud to announce the addi-
tion of Gregory Hartmann as
member of the firm’s Corpo-
rate and Financial Services
Groups. Mr. Hartmann has
extensive experience rep-
resenting assets managers, investment banks,
insurance companies, and other clients, on a wide
variety of transactional and regulatory matters.

“Based upon his extensive industry experience, Greg
has a comprehensive understanding of the chal-
lenges that businesses face and a talent for help-
ing them understand their legal risks and manage
them, particularly in the financial services industry”
said Ron Geffner, a member of the firm’s Executive

Committee. “His in-house experience gives him a
unique capability to anticipate what our clients need
and advise them most effectively.”

Prior to joining the firm, Mr. Hartmann was Corpo-
rate Counsel and Vice President in the Retirement
Law Group of the Prudential Insurance Company
of America, where he supported the pension risk
transfer business, including U.S. pension buy-outs
and international longevity reinsurance. Before that,
Mr. Hartmann was Deputy General Counsel at Pine-
Bridge Investments and Associate General Counsel
at AIG Investments, where he was the head of the
legal department’s Asset Management Group in New
York. At AIG, Mr. Hartmann advised on registered and
private funds, managed accounts, regulatory and
compliance issues, and sales and marketing matters.

Before joining AIG, Mr. Hartmann was the gen-
eral counsel of a private equity and hedge fund
manager, where he built the legal and compliance
department. Prior thereto, he was general counsel
of an investment bank, and also a venture capital
firm. Earlier in his career, Mr. Hartmann was in
private practice at Weil, Gotshal & Manges, and
also at Shea & Gould, in New York.

Mr. Hartmann earned his J.D. from Columbia
University’s School of Law, his M.A. from North-
western University, and his B.A., magna cum
laude, from the University of Notre Dame. Mr.
Hartmann is a member of the American College
of Investment Counsel, and is admitted to prac-
tice in New York.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019862
