CHAPTER 2

)S

ecise and unvarying. First he
1 silence, visualizing the day
banana, and Miieslix that his
way every day—at six in the
‘d ofa mile up to South County
ake deep, restorative breaths.

ward the ocean. Jeffrey's home
ehind him now. The morning’s
id glittery, and fishing trawlers

ied sweatpants, monogrammed
asual attire offset by embroi-
s—the kind that sell for hun-
hich is thick, has turned silver.
paunch. For a fifty-two-year-old

RS RS ea Rn ar RY RY en a aE

Firtuy Ricw

man, he’s extremely fit. Six feet tall, 180 pounds, brown eyes, a
strong jawline.

He’s never been a drinker. He doesn’t smoke or take drugs,
and he takes care good care of his body as well as his mind.

Its a magnificent mind. His gift is for numbers: complex calcu-
lations, abstract formulas. Even as a child, Jeffrey could untangle
math problems that would stump most smart adults. Numbers just
fall into place for him, forming in ranks he can bend, twist,
manipulate—and multiply. He could have been a scientist or a
mathematician. As a young man, he taught calculus and physics.
Then he became an investor—a very rich man. Then he became a
philanthropist, like Bill Gates. His love for science has inspired him
to give millions to academics and institutions committed to study-
ing mysteries of the brain and the arcana of physics. He's given mil-
lions to Harvard. And he’s given money to politicians: Governor
Eliot Spitzer, of New York, and Governor Bill Richardson, of New
Mexico, where Epstein owns the largest home in the state.

Epstein’s flown Bill Clinton to Africa on a private jet—not
the Gulfstream he owns but his Boeing 727, customized with its
own trading floor—so that the former president could promote
his various and worthy causes.

Just for fun, Chris Tucker, the comedian, and Clinton’s pal
Kevin Spacey had tagged along for the ride.

“Jeffrey is both a highly successful financier and a committed
philanthropist with a keen sense of global markets and an
in-depth knowledge of twenty-first-century science,” Clinton
would say through a spokesperson. “I especially appreciated his
insights and generosity during the recent trip to Africa to work
on democratization, empowering the poor, citizen service, and
combating HIV/AIDS.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019123
