actions and omissions. The omission effect evaporated, with the moral weight of an action perceived to
be on a par with an omission.

The Mayan study is but one example. It suggests some flexibility in our perception of actions and
omissions, and shows how cultural differences can create individual differences. When our social world is
relatively small and circumscribed, we can keep tabs on everyone. By keeping tabs, we can hold others
responsible for their actions and their omissions. As the American psychologists Jon Haidt and Jonathan
Baron have shown, this psychology can be recreated in the laboratory by creating scenarios in which the
individuals are either unfamiliar or familiar. When there is a relationship between the individuals —
family, friends, team members — and thus, some degree of familiarity, the omission effect weakens.

The omission effect is not an obligatory state of the human mind. It is a common tendency, a way
that our brains lean, especially in unfamiliar contexts. In patients with obsessive compulsive disorder, the
omission effect is as strong as it is in healthy subjects, except for familiar cases of harm that are directly
relevant to them, such as the excessive washing behavior that is the trademark of this clinical disorder.
The fact that certain situations can cause us to lean in different directions has important policy
implications: even when corporations, institutions, or other organizations grow large, we should always
segregate these masses into smaller divisions, and make the issues personally relevant. Every member of
one division should hold all others within its division responsible or accountable. Further, efforts should
be made to foster familiarity across divisions, enabling not only a level of responsibility but of respect
and trust. By recreating the psychology of small scale societies, and making potential harms relevant, we
may help bypass the omission effect, allowing us to hold people responsible for their omissions. This, in
turn, may reduce the number of individuals who live as passive bystanders. Familiarity and relevance
may well be the necessary catalysts for converting bystanders into active whistle blowers, defenders, and
rescuers.

When bystanders remain passive, watching the world go by, it is often because they believe that
their actions won’t make a difference or think that the costs of heroism are too high. This is, again, an
issue of responsibility. It raises the question of when we ought to act. The distinguished Australian
philosopher Peter Singer has spent a lifetime pushing this issue in the context of charitable donations,
culminating most recently in his book The Life You Can Save. The key idea, taken from a utilitarian
perspective where outcomes as opposed to rules or principles motivate our moral actions, is that we ought
to give a fraction of our incomes to those lacking basic access to food, shelter and health care. Standing
by as bystanders when there are 1.4 billion people in a state of abject poverty is morally wrong. The logic
seems perfectly reasonable, especially given the fact that humanitarian organizations have helped reduce
the number of people living in poverty by .5 billion within the last 20 years. But then we learn of another

Peter Singer idea: if the three richest men alive today — Carlos Slim Helu, Bill Gates, and Warren Buffett

Hauser Chapter 4. Wicked in waiting 138

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012884
