the charts he prepared unreadable. Brads defensive posture was at a minum very surprising . He and I
have recently gotten along quite well , I thought . Neither Joslin or Brad understood a 180 million dollar
number . no cash flow after weeks of requesting? odd. when you suggested that heathers behavior was
emblematic of a sloppy office , brad said lets not talk about emblems??! bill pay , admittedly no change
for the year. . plane not done. though it was the only thing i suggested doing first in july. . I sent youa
list of 10 consultantts. brad said three, . 1 didnt want to push it. I was shocked that brad was opining on
things he knows little or nothing about. tax issues. 1031. neg basis , note payoffs ( the same idea he
said he had had from the beggining??!!) . answers re LBF holdings that can be corrected ( they cant) .
valuations that have never been read. . When we met in your lobby he seems surprised that i was there. I
dont know if he felt somewhat sandbagged. ..

the savings on the note payoff is aprrox 33 % of 1.8 billion. real money if you do phaidon which i see no
reason not to . if later josh and ben want to buy it back with you or without you they can. 1 will walk you
through the structure one on one. . the losses will offeset the calder gain as well as apollo gain.

Im aware that seeing what you saw frustrated you. I felt badly for you.

You wanted a contingent deal. real value. etc. I will not of course hold you to your deal . . its silly. its
not how 1 work or a reflection of our friendship. my proposal is as follows. I want away from your
buisiness , but at the same time leaving you in good shape. _ [| think you should pay the 25m that you did
not for this year. for next year its the same 40 m as always, paid 20 in jan and 20 in july, and then we are
done. I will give you advice and counsel but new people will be running your operating machine. I will
oversee all the work that needs to be done you and I will hire new people , and it will be self running. ( it
was may in my house when you told brad it had been 5 months and you were getting fed up ) I will set up
a parallel . office , somenoe like wendy dolman or her quality is paramount. two accountants two
bookeepers and two office admins. . alan and zoe will handle trusts and grats. heatehr diana george will
be incolved in art partnership. if you want brad, analysts etc. and kids to do investments I have little to
add in that regard ,except to be able to account for things properly. I suggest that the kids must have skin
in any deal.

Alternatively , we can continue to focus on fun and let someone else do the things that you want done.
and you and I can kibbitz about it all. structures outcomes risk, museums. charity, ( joslins answer by
the way was I had asked how much charity was leon planining to give this year , (the 2m) _ he didnt
include your foundation or the payment to me, or from debra and you??!!

Date: Mon, Nov 30, 2015 at 11:21 AM

Subject: agenda

To: Melanie Spinella as Cs

1 fees, amount and to what entities when and responsiblitis. 2. gagosian idea to save a minimum of 10
mill and maybe more. 3. i can walk you through carlyns screw up, 50 % would have made little
difference and maybe made it worse . 4. we should have an all hands meeting with your family to talk
about art distribution on death. . 5. phaidon, decantings ( already firmly in progress ) loans. (alan )
pent. ( with follow up ) all part of same elegant transaction, 6 asymetric risk worth at least 50- 60 no
matter how you calculate. I can explain. 7 lets get the money issue out of the way once and for all. I
have my team set to start.

Date: Fri, Feb 20, 2015 at 5:52 AM
Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella iii

1) pg 1 A unequal shares. pg 23 removal of trustees  absolute. dont be confused with abiltiy to set

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023260
