Education is one of the largest sectors in the world, representing approximately 5% of global gross
national income of $48 trillion.* In 2005 in the U.S. alone, education was a $1 trillion market.” Education
is still predominantly provided by public / governmental eniities in most countries including the U.S. KUE
believes that the industry will converge towards a more balanced public / private system, similar to the
evolution observed in the 20th century in other major industries such as healthcare, infrastructure and
telecommunications.

The Company's strategy is to grow its existing platforms both damestically and internationally and to
expand its assets globally across the pre-K-12 education continuum. In addition to its current investments
in ECE and online curriculum, KUE will seek to expand by acquiring education companies offering
services or products that can complement its current offering. KUE believes that owning a diversified
porticlio of assets in the pre-K-12 education space will allow it to leverage content and best practices
across multiple constituencies and to multiple markets. KUE’s strategy in U.S. ECE is to expand its
existing platform through the opening of new centers, opportunistic acquisitions of smaller competitors
and the sale of education-related products and services through existing channels. Internationally, KUE
has identified several near-term opportunities fo expand into Europe, the Middle-East and Asia, with some
of these opportunities in advanced stages of preparation.

Management has a history of successfully growing through acquisitions. In May 2003, KLC acquired
Aramark Educational Resources (AER), a company three times its size in terms of revenue.
Management completed the integration of AER in approximately 12 months, realizing approximately $10
million in net annual synergies and improving operational performance. In January 2005, the Company
acquired KinderCare, the largest provider of ECE services in the U.S. at the time. Management achieved
approximately $25 million in net annualized synergies through the closing of under-performing centers
and the rationalization cf corporate overhead. In November 2005, KLC separated its education
operations (KLC OpCo) from its real estate assets (KLC PropCo}. Management believes this division
allows KLC OpCo management fo focus on the core business of operating and growing the ECE
business while the maximization of the valuable educational real estate portfolio is managed and
expanded by a professional real estate firm, Greenstreet Real Estate Partners (formerly Greenstreet
Realty Partners, L.P.}, and also represents management's view of KLC’s component businesses.

Management believes that KUE presents an attractive financial profile with its combination of businesses:
{i} KLC OpCo, which generated $1.48 billion in pro forma revenue and $150 million in pro forma Adjusted
EBITDA’ in 2005, is projected to grow organically to $2.3 billion and $320 million by 2011, respectively
and to generate operating cash flow growing from $72 million in 2005 to $214 million in 2011; (i) a real
estate portfolio in KLC PropCo that generated an additional $88 million in pro forma EBITDA in 2005; and
(iii) an investment in k12, which continues to deliver top line growth in excess of 25% and has seen its
revenue grow at a 133% compounded annual growth rate over the last three fiscal years (from $6.7
million in 2002 to $85.1 million in 2005).

1.2. Investment Rationale

1.2.1 Attractive Industry Characteristics

H The global for-profit education market is large and growing

* Source: UNESCO institute for Statistics database.
® Source: US Department of Education National Center for Education Statistics and Training Magazine and Harris Nesbitt research.
° Pro forma for the acquisition of KinderCare and the separation of KLC into KLC OpCo and KLC PrapCo.

20

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024453
