CRISTINA PATO

Cristina Pato has already opened historical new paths for the
Gaita (Galician bagpipe). In 1998 Cristina Pato became the
first female Gaita player releasing a solo album and since then
she has collaborated with world music, jazz, classical and
experimental artists (including Chicago Symphony, Yo-Yo Ma,
The Chieftains, Arturo O’Farril, World Symphony Orchestra,
Paquito D’Rivera). Her unique and powerful style full of
passion and energy has been acclaimed by The New York Times
as “a virtuosic burst of energy” or the BBC as “the Galician
bagpipe diva”. Cristina Pato fuses the influences of Latin
music, jazz, pop and contemporary music, and uses her artistry
and unprecedented virtuosic skill to bring her musical vision
to life. Pato is amember of Yo-Yo Ma’s Silk Road Ensemble.

Internationally acclaimed as a Gaita master and
classical pianist, Cristina Pato enjoys an active professional
career devoted to both Galician popular and classical music.
Her dual careers have led to performances throughout major
stages throughout the world, including USA (Carnegie Hall,
Lincoln Center), India (Kamani Auditorium), Jerusalem
(Jerusalem Festival), Angola, China, Corea, Portugal
(Festa do Avante), Brazil (Liszt Festival), UK (Celtic
Connections), France, Italy (Etnofestival), Germany,
Mexico (Palacio de Bellas Artes) and her native Spain.

An active recording artist and performer since age
12, Ms. Pato has released four solo Gaita recordings, two as a
pianist and has collaborated in more than thirty recordings

ttn

as a guest artist, including the Grammy award winner “Yo-
Yo Ma and Friends; Songs of Joy and Peace” (SONY BMG
2008), the “Miles Espafiol: New Skectches of Spain” album
and the Grammy nominated Silk Road Ensemble album “Off
the Map” (World Village 2010). Ms. Pato has given more than
500 concerts with her own band many of them recorded and
broadcasted by television stations such as BBC, TVG, CNN
and RTVE, and she has been praised by newspapers as The
New York Times, El Pais, La Voz de Galicia or The Scotsman.

Ms. Pato is Doctor of Musical Arts in Collaborative
Piano from the Mason Gross School of the Arts, Rutgers
University (NJ, USA), where she studied with a fellowship
from Fundacion Barrie de la Maza. She was awarded with
the Edna Mason Scholarship and the Irene Alm Memorial
Prize for excellence in scholarly research and performance
(Rutgers University, May 2008). Cristina Pato holds both
a Master of Music Degree in Piano Performance and a
Master of Music Degree in Music Theory and Chamber
Music (with honors) from the Conservatorio de Musica
del Liceu (Barcelona). She also holds also a Master of
Fine Arts Degree in Digital Arts (Computer Music)
from the Universitat Pompeu Fabra (Barcelona).

Cristina Pato is part of the Leadership Council
of The SIIk Road Ensemble collaborating closely
with Harvard University, the ensemble’s residency.
Cristina is also a faculty member (adjunct) at the

vocal department of New Jersey City University.

During the 2011-2012 season Cristina Pato has toured
Africa and Spain with her own band; USA, China, and Korea
with Yo Yo Ma and The Silk Road Ensemble and India with
HUM Ensemble. She collaborated in the album Miles Espanol
along with Chick Corea and Jack DeJonnette and participated
at the Kennedy Center Honors Awards honoring Yo Yo Ma with
The Silk Road Ensemble, Johns Williams and James Taylor.

She is the founder and artistic director of
Galician Connection, a forum in world music celebrated
annually at Cidade da Cultura de Galicia.

Ms. Pato resides in New York City since 2004.
More info: www.cristinapato.com

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017553
