Then there is the outside world pressed to the glass, appalled and
titillated by the monster inside the big house—a kind of Boo Radley of the
Upper East Side. I have taken friends by the Epstein mansion, and the
reaction to its other-worldly size in Manhattan is almost always the same: a
gasp. Press accounts, seldom supplying new information, ever recycle and
repeat the mysterious (and monstrous) billionaire mythology, with brief
glimpses of him stepping out of the house (the same photos endlessly
republished), and the assumption of depravity inside.

In fact, the life in the house, without wife or children or conventional
domestic demeanor, in some way conforms to the most scripted fantasies: a
life somewhere between Daddy Warbucks and Eyes Wide Shut.

The domesticity of the house, and the background of Epstein’s
problems, centers around a group of young women who act as his support
staff and companions. Some have worked for him for many years, marrying,
having children, and continuing as part of his business and household
infrastructure. One woman, on an afternoon when I was there, recently
married, had just returned from an around the world honeymoon that Epstein
had arranged for her. Some are his romantic interests. His present girl friend
is in dental school. One former girlfriend, Eva Andersson Dubin, a Swedish
model and Miss Universe finalist, became a doctor and married hedge
funder Glen Dubin and together they finance the Dubin Breast Center at
Mount Sinai Hospital. Most at one time will travel with him to his other
floating residences—the ranch in New Mexico, a vast apartment in Paris, the
Island in the Caribbean, the house in Palm Beach.

This is so outside of conventional living or staffing or romantic
relationships that it is hard to describe in a straightforward or straight-faced
way. It sometimes seems part of Epstein’s implicit challenge: not just look at
me, but do you even believe what you see? Or it seems he is just oblivious to
what others are thinking. A willful and perhaps fatal tone deafness.

But Hefnerian prurience can also be quite businesslike: poised young
women in a mansion on the Upper East Side with various office
responsibilities are really not that different from any of the art galleries in
the surrounding neighborhood.

Epstein’s young women mingle freely with his powerful guests, not so
much as hostess or, in tabloid language, harem-like (or as “sex slaves”), but
often as attentive students (that, of course, might be regarded as having its
own fetish-like attraction).

Not long ago, Epstein invited me to sit in on a day of presentations to
him in his dining room by various “quants.” Quant theory involves making
investments based solely on mathematical and statistical models. This

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022750
