COWEN
COLLABORATIVE INSIGHTS February 25, 2019

CBD Hemp Cultivation (Neivert)

2

2018 Farm Bill Legalizes Commercial Cultivation of Hemp: The 2018 Farm Bill legalized
industrial hemp at the federal level removing it from schedule | status under The
Controlled Substance Act. The bill defines industrial hemp as a variety of cannabis with a
THC concentration of </=0.3% and allows farmers to grow and sell hemp under state
regulation. According to the National Conference of State Legislatures, 41 states have
set up cultivation and production programs to regulate the production of hemp. (CT, ID,
SD, IA, OH, TX, LA, MS and GA do not currently allow hemp cultivation.)

Hemp is currently being grown under state Industrial Research Pilot Programs. Once
USDA rules are released, pilot programs may end in favor of USDA rules and rules of
state programs approved by the USDA.

Prior to the 2018 Farm Bill, the 2014 Farm Bill allowed universities and state
departments of agriculture to conduct hemp research under Agricultural Pilot Programs
in an effort to evaluate industrial hemp as a commercial crop. The bill allowed states to
begin research on best methods for hemp cultivation.

Cultivation Practices Of Hemp Dependent On Intended Harvestable Component

Hemp is grown for fiber, grain/seed and floral materials with different varieties of hemp
planted for each component. Fibers are used in rope and textiles, grain is used in human
food (not legal for animal feed), pressed seed oil from grain is used like sunflower seed
oil, and oils, including CBD, are removed from floral materials for health supplements.

Cultivation practices differ for fiber, grain/seed and CBD in an effort to maximize the
yield of the desired harvestable component. U.S. states have conducted pilot programs
in recent years to help gain a better understanding of best practices.

Limited Research Available On CBD Hemp Cultivation

There is little research on CBD hemp cultivation methods as hemp cultivation research
historically has focused on fiber and grain/seed. This lack of research, combined with a
number of variables that impact hemp for CBD yield, makes hemp for CBD cultivation
much more art than science at this point. Cultivation methods have been described as all
over the map. That being said, we detail methods from recent academic research studies
and conversations with industry participants below. (The University of Kentucky and
University of Vermont have both conducted research in CBD hemp cultivation in recent
years but further research is needed for conclusions regarding proper production
techniques.)

Hemp CBD Cultivation Steps:

e §=© Obtaina license. Growers must obtain a grower license from their state
department of agriculture for the specific type of hemp they want to grow.

e Find a buyer/processor. Growers then need to find a buyer/processor for their
harvest as crops can only be sold to licensed processors.

e Source seeds or clones. The grower must acquire seeds or transplants. Clones
(rooted cutting of a plant) can be used instead of seeds. The key factor in
selecting seeds or clones is understanding which strains produce flowers with
high CBD concentrations while keeping THC at </=0.3% since CBD and THC are
positively correlated which caps the CBD level. (A crop that exceeds 0.3% THC

COWEN.COM 11

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024827
