4.2.12
WC: 191694

Woody Allen vs. Mia Farrow

In my article on the 10 greatest legal blunders of the 20 Century, I included on my list, the
decision by Woody Allen’s lawyers to sue Mia Farrow for custody of several of her adopted
children as well as the one child they conceived together. I played an unusual role in that lawsuit,
in which both sides were focused heavily on the media: Woody was concerned that negative
coverage, particularly of allegations involving sexual improprieties with a young girl, might ruin
his career; and Mia’s concern that any coverage might hurt her children. Every legal maneuver in
the case was made with an eye (sometimes two) on the media.

I first met Woody Allen when he was filming Manhattan. He was given to me as a birthday
present by a group of friends, one of whom knew Woody from his earlier film “The Front.”
[check dates] He agreed to meet me for lunch. He didn’t know he was my birthday present.
When I told him, he immediately began to speculate as to who he would want as a present:
“Louis Armstrong,” he said would be his first choice.

“He’s dead,” I reminded him.

“Exactly,” he replied.

“Jimmy Hoffa would be my second choice.”

“He’s missing,” I said.

“Exactly,” he repeated.

He then asked me which dead person I would have wanted to represent as a criminal lawyer. I
immediately replied “Jesus.”

“Do you think you could have won?” he asked.
“In front of a Jewish jury, maybe.”

“Those biblical Jews were tough. They didn’t tolerate troublemakers like Jesus. They probably
wouldn’t have liked Jews like us from Brooklyn,” Woody mused.

“Yeah, but imagine how different history would be if a Jewish lawyer saved Jesus. They couldn’t
accuse us of killing their Lord.”

“But he wouldn’t have been their Lord, if you had won. He wouldn’t have been crucified. And
without crucifixion, there’s no Christianity, so if you had won they’d be blaming the Jews for
destroying Christianity.”

Woody reminded me of the riff that got Lenny Bruce into so much trouble. Bruce quipped that if

the Roman’s electrocuted rather than crucified their enemies, millions of Christians would be
walking around wearing tiny electric chairs around their necks.

282

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017369
