How the Best Universities Inadvertently Ruin Our Schools 197

hire folks who can contribute. I was trying to build educational soft-
ware but the principle was the same. I hired programmers, researchers,
assistants to do lower level work, video staff, artists, and, of course,
graduate students.

And, now you know what I did all day. I managed this enterprise.
Eventually my institute had 200 people working in it. I did what any
person in charge of 200 people does. I set the direction and checked
on progress. Also, I wrote books and thought deep thoughts. This is
what any professor does who brings in grant money. I was just doing
it on a larger scale than most.

All of this is about winning the prestige game. Any university
wants pre-eminent professors. Universities want the best faculty so
their name is mentioned a lot, so they get applications from students,
attention from the media, and more grant money. That is what uni-
versities do. Teaching? Well, how exactly does teaching fit in with all
that?

It really doesn’t. Most professors agree that the university is a lot
nicer place when there aren’t all those undergraduates around. From
May to September New Haven was an idyllic place. Smart people, good
weather, interesting conversation. Then in September, thousands of
young people, making a racket and expecting to be taught. But, there-
in lies the problem. Are students really expecting to be taught?

It doesn’t take very long for a professor to learn that those brilliant
Yale students, the ones who killed themselves to get into the place, may
not be there solely to enter into the life of the mind. While everyone
is thinking great thoughts and doing great research over the summer,
professors manage to get themselves believing that the job of a profes-
sor at a great university is to be an intellectual. What they forget easily
enough is who is paying the bills. And, they forget the real agenda of
those who are paying the bills. They are reminded soon enough.

Students want courses to be easy, not bother them too much with
work outside the classroom, and help them get a good job. Of course,
I am oversimplifying here. Many students attend Yale to learn what it
is that you, the professor, really know and want to teach. In 15 years
at Yale I met a number of them. I remember their names because there
weren't that many. We can hope that all professors have met their
share of that type of student.

Most college students are 18-year-olds who are on their own for
the first time. They are more interested in exploring themselves and
their new freedoms than they are in working hard at intellectual

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023937
