58

without anyone else realizing that it had been stolen. It intrigued him enough for him to bring it to
the attention of his superiors, as he later said. Snowden saw that a rogue system administrator like
himself could use his computer privileges to download and steal documents in ways that would go
unnoticed. The emergence of a rogue system administrator was not that farfetched in 2009.
Hacktavists such as Julian Assange had adopted the battle cry: system administrators, or “syst
admins of the world unite.” Instead of asking them to “throw off their chains,” as Marx did, he
asked them to send classified documents about secret government activity to the Wikileaks site.
Snowden recalled in Moscow in 2014: “I actually recommended they [the NSA] move to two-
man control for administrative access back in 2009.” To make his point even clearer, he added:
“A whistleblower could use these things, but so could a spy.” Not without irony, Snowden
himself became that rogue system administrator some three years later at Dell. In fact, he later
used the vulnerability he pointed out to steal NSA documents at Dell (before moving to Booz
Allen.).

In September 2009, Snowden made a ten day trip to India. He later said he was on an official
visit “working at the US embassy.” He was still on the Dell payroll. Hotel records show that he
arrived at the Hyatt Regency hotel in New Delhi on September 2™ from Japan, and at 3:30 pm on
September 3, checked into the Koenig Inn, a facility that was an annex to Koenig Solutions, a
school that gave crash courses on programming and computer hacking. According to Rohit
Aggarwal, the head of the school, Snowden stayed there until September 10 while taking classes
with a private instructor. It cost $2,000 in tuition and fees, which Snowden prepaid from Japan
with his own personal credit card. Even though Snowden later said he only took courses in
“programming,” the school’s records show that during that week he took intensive courses in
sophisticated hacking techniques. Although the course was entitled “ethical hacking” that was
also a euphemism for teaching the techniques of illicit hacking. The course provided tutoring on
hacker’s tools, such as “Spyeye” and “ZeuS,” that are used to circumvent security procedures. It
also demonstrated how these hacking tools could be customized by criminals and spies to break
into files, plant surveillance programs, impersonate system administrators, assume the privileges
of system administrators in a network, and capture the passwords of others. On September 11,
Snowden, according to hotel records, left India for Japan. While the stated purpose of the
hacking training was to allow security consultants to detect intruders, it also prepared Snowden
to be, if he chooses to be, an intruder in the NSA system.

One problem with working as a contractor is that the standard two-year contracts are not
necessarily renewed, making a contractor’s job essentially temporary employment. Nor is there
much possibility for advancement for IT workers. As one contractor told me “It is a dead end job
with great pay.” In the fall of 2010, Snowden’s contract in Japan with Dell SecureWorks came
to anend. Dell then offered Snowden a new position in the United States.

He now was assigned to work at Dell headquarters in Annapolis, Maryland. He rented a modest
suburban house shaded by a Sakura cherry tree in suburb of Annapolis, Maryland. Mills

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020210
