ag

meanwhile was attending a two-week fitness training course at a Yoga camp that qualified her to
be a yoga instructor. She then moved in with Snowden. Even though she had been living on and
off with Snowden during the past two years abroad, including while he worked at the CIA in
Switzerland and the NSA in Japan, they had not shared a home in America up until now. The
now 25-year old Mills posted on Instagram “Finally in our first US place together.” She also put
on line pictures of him in bed with her, who she now affectionately referred to in her posts as a
“computer crusader.”

Dell meanwhile had him to work on problem- solving for its corporate clients. In preparation
for his corporate role, he shaved off this facial hair and, with Lindsay’s help, bought a Ralph
Lauren suit. These corporate clients were assisting the NSA, the CIA, and the Defense
Intelligence Agency (DIA). Consequently, Snowden dealt with a wide range of intelligence
officers, and gave presentations on the vulnerabilities at computer security at the DIA-sponsored
Joint Counter Intelligence seminar.

His dealings with these US intelligence officers in no way mitigated his resentment of the
intelligence establishment. What began at the CIA in 2009 as objections to what he saw as the
incompetence of his superiors grew into well-articulated disapproval of the way that the US
government conducted its intelligence. He found NSA surveillance particularly worrisome, later
telling the Guardian: They [the NSA] are intent on making every conversation and every form of
behavior in the world known to them. He claimed after defecting to Moscow that he had voiced
his concerns about what he considered illicit surveillance to ten NSA officials, “none of whom
took any action to address them.” The NSA can find no record of these complaints but if
Snowden had indeed complained to these officials while working for Dell, his superiors at Dell
either didn’t notice or care that they had a very disgruntled employee on their hand. He also
made no secret of anger at the US government and the corporations that served it on the Internet.
He railed on the Ars Technica site against the complicity of private corporations, such as Dell,
that assisted the NSA. In his on-line posts in 2010, Snowden expressed loathing for the
assistance that corporate America was providing the intelligence community. “It really concerns
me how little this sort of corporate behavior bothers those outside of technology circles,” he
wrote under his True Hoo-ha alias. He said he feared that America was already on “a slippery
slope,” and suggested, perhaps adumbrating his own later actions, that this corporate assistance to
US intelligence “was entirely within our control to stop.” What the “computer crusader,” as Mills
had playfully called him in her Internet postings, expressed in these angry Internet postings was an
almost obsessive concern over individuals freely submitting to government authority. “Society
really seems to have developed an unquestioning obedience towards spooky types,” he wrote on
Ars Technica without mentioning that he himself worked for a corporation, Dell that assisted spy
agencies. He asked rhetorically on this public forum whether the sinister slide towards a
surveillance state “sneaked in undetected because of pervasive government secrecy?”

The outright contempt he expressed towards this “government secrecy” in no way prevented
him from seeking even more secret work at Dell for the intelligence services. In February 2011,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020211
