4.2.12
WC: 191694

Circuit and an adjunct member of our faculty. The first half of the legal ethics class was devoted
to discussing the difficult problem of what a lawyer should do when a client gives him physical
evidence, the possession of which itself might be a crime. Such evidence might include videos of
child pornography, stolen goods and other contraband. We considered a case where a legal aid
lawyer had been told where his client buried the body of a college student he had murdered, but
his murder was not known to her parents or to the police. We also discussed the Joe Paterno case
that was then in the news and that raised questions regarding obligations to report serious
misconduct. The second hour, prosecutor Ocampo made a brief appearance in the classroom, to
discuss ethical problems faced by international prosecutors. The class ended with a discussion
about the scope of confidentiality and what a lawyer should do if his client claims innocence and
would like to testify as to his innocence, but the lawyer firmly believes that he is guilty.

Following that class I sent an hour preparing for my next seminar which is a class of freshman at
Harvard College. The subject is “Where Does Your Morality Come From?”, and we discussed
the moral limits on spying and other forms of subterfuge directed against enemy countries.

Straight from class I went to the Huntington Theater where I had been asked to comment on a
play that was opening there. The play was about the capture of Adolph Eichmann, and I spent
about an hour on the stage speaking and responding to questions from the director and the

audience about the legal issues growing out of the highly publicized capture and trial by Israel.

Thursday was essentially my day of rest. I spent the day writing several short articles and doing
research and writing on several pending projects, including my autobiography. Thursday night
was my only night of the week at home with my wife, and we spent it watching a dumb but
entertaining movie called Crazy Stupid Love.

Friday began with my annual checkup at my doctor’s office followed by lunch with Peter Norton,
director of the Norton Antivirus Software. I met him and his wife Gwen for lunch at the Harvest,
where we discussed, among other things, the use of computer viruses against the Iranian nuclear
threat. After lunch, I received an email from a lawyer representing Saif Ghadafi, who had just
been apprehended by the Lybians. He wanted me to represent Ghadafi in the International
Criminal Court and to negotiate for him to be tried in the Hague rather than in Tripoli. I asked
for more information before making a decision. I spent the rest of the afternoon working on
writing projects, and then went back to the law school at 6:30PM for a Shabbat dinner sponsored
by Chabad and the Jewish Law Students Association. I am faculty advisor to both of those
organizations and I gave a brief talk at the beginning of the dinner. My wife and I then attended a
concert at Sanders Theater.

At 5:30 on Saturday morning, I flew to fly to Washington DC to be a keynote speaker at an event
sponsored by Iranian dissidents. The other speakers included former Secretary of Homeland
Security, Tom Ridge, Former Chairman of the Democratic National Committee Howard Dean,
former Congressman Patrick Kennedy and several other former and current government officials.
I then took the train back to New York, where I was hoping to attend the Metropolitan Opera,
but I was too tired and I went back to my apartment and ended the week by falling asleep at about
10PM. My wife was proud of me for acknowledging my limitations, saying that 5 years earlier, I
never would have been willing to miss anything because of being tired. A friend, who is a

346

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017433
