in the public equity markets could result in substantially lower liquidation values and
substantially longer periods before liquidity is achieved in comparison with historical values,
which would reduce the returns that could be achieved by the Fund. In addition, factors
specific to a portfolio company may have an adverse effect on the Fund’s investment in such
company. The General Partner may rely upon its own or a portfolio company’s projections
concerning the portfolio company’s future performance in making investment decisions. Such
projections are inherently subject to uncertainty and to certain factors beyond the control of the
portfolio company and the General Partner. Prospective investors are particularly cautioned
that the investment sourcing, selection, management and liquidation strategies and procedures
exercised by partners of the General Partner in the past may not be successful, or even
practicable, during the Fund’s term.

Industry Specific Terminology

Prospective investors are cautioned that certain terms and phrases of common usage within the
venture capital industry may be misleading to those unfamiliar with such usage. In particular,
individuals who participate in the management of a fund often are referred to, in a colloquial
sense, as “general partners” even though they are not actually general partners of any
partnership. Prospective investors are reminded that the Fund will be a limited partnership,
that the General Partner will be a limited partnership, that the general partner of the General
Partner will be a limited liability company, and that the individuals directing the management
of the Fund through the General Partner will be members of such limited liability company. It
is not intended that the Fund will have any general partner other than the General Partner or
that any actual general partnership will in any manner be associated with the formation,
operation, dissolution or termination of the Fund. Prospective investors must not presume or
rely upon the existence of any actual legal entities other than the Fund, the General Partner and
the general partner of the General Partner. With respect to all matters involving industry
specific terminology, prospective investors are urged to consult with their own legal and other
advisors.

Fund and General Partner Not Registered

The Fund will not be registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the
“Investment Company Act”) pursuant to an exemption set forth in Sections 3(c)(1) and/or
3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act. There is no assurance that such exemptions will
continue to be available to the Fund. Due to the burdens of compliance with the Investment
Company Act, the performance of the Fund’s investment portfolio could be materially
adversely affected, and risks involved in financing portfolio companies could substantially
increase, if the Fund becomes subject to registration under the Investment Company Act.
Neither the Fund nor its counsel can assure investors that, under certain conditions, changed
circumstances, or changes in the law, the Fund may not become subject to the Investment
Company Act or other burdensome regulation. The General Partner is not registered as a
broker/dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) and
with the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (the “NASD”) and is consequently not
subject to the record keeping and specific business practice provisions of the Exchange Act and
the rules of the NASD.

69 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024080
