/ BARAK / 141

was important to convey to him honestly, face-to-face, where Israel stood on Iran.
Or at least where I stood.

With our joint exercises pushed back until the fall, the logical time for us to
attack was the summer of 2012, when the atmospheric and weather conditions
were optimal. Operationally, everything was ready. Politically, those ministers who
were against military action had not changed their minds. If anything, they seemed
more strongly opposed. Ironically, they now argued that because we’d waited so
long, the Iranians were too close to their “window of immunity.” Even some senior
members of the military and security establishment, though in agreement over the
technical aspects of the attack plan, retained political reservations. But as I'd told
President Obama, now that we had the operational support of the military and
intelligence professionals, the decision in effect rested with Bibi and me. The fact
we were ready to go ahead in those circumstances was not unprecedented. When
Menachem Begin ordered the bombing of Saddam Hussein’s nuclear reactor in
1981, he had acted against the advice of the then-heads of both the Mossad and
military intelligence, the chairman of our nuclear energy commission, and of
Shimon Peres, who was head of the Labor opposition.

But as we neared our final, formal decision, we were forced into another delay.
In the summer of 2012, an unrelated flare-up of tensions in the Gulf caused Iran
and several of its neighbors to place their forces on heightened alert. Though the
peak-alert phase passed quickly, Iran’s military was still not back on a fully normal
footing by the start of September, and when small American advance teams began
arriving for the joint exercises, Iran’s alert level went up again. Technically, we
could still have gone ahead with the attack. In all probability, it would still have
succeeded, setting back the Iranians’ program by at least a year and, depending on
how quickly they could rebuild and resupply clandestinely abroad, perhaps for
significantly longer.

But as more and more American soldiers and sailors arrived, I finally decided
against an Israeli strike — not because I doubted the damage it would do to Iran’s
nuclear efforts, but because of the damage it would surely do to our ties with the

427
HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028275
