Whistleblower
Provisions and
Protections

WHISTLEBLOWER PROVISIONS
AND PROTECTIONS

Assistance and information from a whistleblower who knows of possible secu-

rities law violations can be among the most powerful weapons in the law en-

forcement arsenal. Through their knowledge of the circumstances and individu-

als involved, whistleblowers can helo SEC and DOJ identify potential violations

much earlier than might otherwise have been possible, thus allowing SEC and

DOJ to minimize the harm to investors, better preserve the integrity of the

U.S. capital markets, and more swiftly hold accountable those responsible for

unlawful conduct.

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank
Act of 2010 both contain provisions affecting whistleblow-
ers who report FCPA violations. Sarbanes-Oxley prohibits
issuers from retaliating against whistleblowers and provides
that employees who are retaliated against for reporting pos-
sible securities law violations may file a complaint with the
Department of Labor, for which they would be eligible to
receive reinstatement, back pay, and other compensation.”
Sarbanes-Oxley also prohibits retaliation against employee
whistleblowers under the obstruction of justice statute.*”!

In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act added Section 21F to

the Exchange Act, addressing whistleblower incentives and

protections. Section 21F authorizes SEC to provide mon-
etary awards to eligible individuals who voluntarily come
forward with high quality, original information that leads
to an SEC enforcement action in which over $1,000,000 in
sanctions is ordered. *” The awards range is between 10%
and 30% of the monetary sanctions recovered by the gov-
ernment. The Dodd-Frank Act also prohibits employers
from retaliating against whistleblowers and creates a private
right of action for employees who are retaliated against.*”*
Furthermore, businesses should be aware that retali-
ation against a whistleblower may also violate state, local,

and foreign laws that provide protection of whistleblowers.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022584

