68

Taiwan’s TECRO also supports work at several think tanks. In rare cases—because one
usually excludes the other—US think tanks end up accepting funds from both Taiwan
and mainland China sources.

Visa Access

Most American scholars consider travel to China an important element of their ability
to do their job—attending conferences, participating in delegations, and undertaking
independent research. Given this imperative, the issue of visa access is a central one.
While most analysts receive single-entry professional exchange (F) visas, a few
routinely receive one-year multiple-entry F visas, while some have ten-year tourist (L)
visas. Others receive double-entry visas, if proof of specific invitations are produced.
One US think-tank scholar, a Chinese national, travels to China on a Chinese passport.
While ten-year multiple-entry tourist visas are, of course, optimal—there is also a serious
potential downside: namely, that they are for “tourism,” and, according to Chinese
law, professional activities are not permitted. One senior scholar who holds a ten-year
tourist visa was recently visited and interrogated at his hotel in Beijing after several
days of meetings with Chinese think tanks and universities.

Several think-tank analysts expressed the opinion that Chinese officials are now paying
more attention to the writings of American think-tank analysts—not only books,
articles, and op-eds, but also social media. This is done not only to become familiar
with changing views but to catalog who is supportive and who is critical of China’s
policies. One scholar believes that, as a result of a comment posted on Twitter, this
individual was required to go to the Chinese embassy for an interview before being
granted a visa. This had never happened in his previous decades of China-related travel.
In another instance, Beijing attempted to enforce its sovereignty claims through the
visa process, A visa was initially denied because an American scholar had stated that
“Hong Kong” and “Taiwan” were places he had previously visited, instead of “Hong
Kong SAR,” and “Taiwan, China.” Most of the scholars interviewed believe that the
process of gaining a visa has become much more politicized and difficult in the past
year or two, with much more scrutiny given to an applicant’s political views. Among
those interviewed, only one think-tank scholar reported actually being denied a visa.
(However, there have been reports of other think-tank analysts being rejected who

are reluctant to go public about their denials.) In addition, most of those interviewed
observed that the Chinese embassy now often issues visas the day before or even the
morning of departure, making the visa process laborious and nerve-racking.

Two interviewees reported that companies that specialize in expediting visa
applications have indicated that their respective think tanks are on a blacklist that
makes obtaining visas problematic. In one case, an interviewee related a case in which

Think Tanks

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020527
