office. . decide if investments are a realistic option in the next three years... insurance. operations. airplane ,
etc. . artfoundation , private. max charity contributions. financial reports. still waiting. ? on line
banking, . tax planning, family office deductions ( profit center ). airplane certificate, redone jet aviation
redo. . _— paper gigi ( E )trust to avoid gift tax. .

today is Oct 15

With your full knowledge I paid out 8 mil to my staff before june, . soi guess I can safely assume that after
consideration of all the things I did for the entire past year separate and apart from your unique free after
care concept. , what you thought was ultimately fair was the contribution of 5 million toa foundation
and a total of 2 million dollars to me.

Date: Thu, Feb 4, 2016 at 10:01 PM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella

josh's arrival cut short our needed conversation. I understand we have a difference of opinion. friends
sometimes disagree, I shook on the 20 so you have no further obligation, none, I am willing to have brad
karp hear both sides. as my view , you andi had an agreement. on phaidon /publishing, and then a long
standing what you say is 28 , which is correct AFTer TAX. , 37 pre. . that was our numbers. I was clear what
i thought the transactions were worth. far less than full. alanetc. , had you saidi will pay you only 20. i
would have said ill pass. you never told me that 50-60 the number that i put on the table at the very beginning
was not right. you asked that i lay out my plan step by step. and what i believe would have been the fair thing
to do is say to me, I will pay you only 20if you do asiask, not tell me for the first time only after i laid it
all out. had it not been you, 1 would have required payment in escrow. BEFORE fyithe reason I sent you
an invoice so that if you decided that you wanted me to continue this year . it would be applied to last years
income. I think today was a beginiing for you. Iam glad I will meet wendy the 23, rd, . separate and aprt
from being your sounding board for personal issues, I do not see my involvment moving forward.

Date: Wed, Feb 10, 2016 at 12:56 AM

Subject: Fwd:

To: Melanie Spinella PO

this was sent four months ago, nothing has changed

sent oct 15. before big transaction.

Office, - adagoes. , hire heather a paralegal. Joslin goes or is closely managed by new cfo with tax
experience. .castrucii goes asap.as he merely adds to mess.( too many people , ex 7 people or more to pay a
bill ) eva goes. outsource as much as possible.. bookkeeping systems built from scratch, airplane
restructure, boat . same, new grats. phaidon sale , decide on artspace survivability, regan, . do the kids really
want these? , children accounting ie bens house.etc. re do estate for new facts. redo loans, trading accounts
activity, . gaming -foreign- disclosures. . BRH TRA re thinks . household and construction

architects. . redone. art partnership , choice of paintings. . re do structure of consultants. tax re family
office. . decide if investments are a realistic option in the next three years.. insurance. operations. airplane ,
etc. . artfoundation , private. max charity contributions. financial reports. still waiting. ? on line
banking, . tax planning, family office deductions ( profit center ). airplane certificate, redone jet aviation
redo. . _— paper gigi ( E )trust to avoid gift tax. .

Date: Thu, Mar 3, 2016 at 3:31 AM

Subject: ask alan why he hasnt explained this to you since novmebr

Tenancy in common is a type of shared ownership of property, where each owner owns a share of the
property. Unlike in a joint tenancy, these shares can be of unequal size, and can be freely transfered to other
owners both during life and via a will. Even if owners own unequal shares, however, all owners have the right
to occupy and use all of the property.

Date: Sun, Mar 13, 2016 at 12:55 PM

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023314
