32

Baath (renaissance) party jointly founded by two intellectuals, Michel
Aflag and Salah al-Din Bitar, with an agenda explicitly aimed at
overcoming sectarian divisions.

It would be wrong to suppose that the Alawis deliberately sought to
subvert or take over the Baath or the armed forces. Their primary
impulse was their own security. After independence the Syrian
parliament abolished the separate representation for minorities
instituted by the French, along with certain judicial rights. Nusayri
sheikhs and notables encouraged young men to join the Baath
because they believed its secular outlook would protect them from
Sunni hegemony and persecution. Other minorities, including
Christians, Druzes, and Ismailis, tended to join the Baath (or in some
cases the Communist Party and Syrian Socialist National Party) for
similar reasons. The eventual dominance achieved by the Alawis may
be attributed to their highland military background and the default
logic by which ‘asabiyya tends to assert itself in the absence of other,
more durable structures.

The first three military coups that followed Syrian independence were
engineered by Sunni officers. This was followed by the disastrous
union with Nasser’s Egypt in 1958 when Baath party leaders,
following their pan-Arabist nationalist logic, merged their country’s
identity into that of their more powerful Sunni neighbor. After Syria
formally united with Egypt, Nusayri officers who had joined the
Baath party became increasingly alarmed that Arab nationalism, for
all its secular rhetoric, was really a veil concealing Arab Sunni
supremacy. They formed a clandestine military committee led by
Salah Jadid, an Alawi, which took power in a military coup in 1963.
Hafez al-Assad, trained as a fighter pilot, became air force
commander. Some seven hundred officers were purged, and most of
their positions were filled with Nusayris. A further coup against the
Baathist old guard brought Assad into the cabinet as defense minister

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030091
