45

he had a personal friendship. The former managing director
repeatedly made false representations to his employer about

the transaction and the ownership interests involved.

Conspiracy and Aiding and Abetting Liability

As with the FCPA’s anti-bribery provisions, compa-
nies (including subsidiaries of issuers) and individuals may
face criminal liability for conspiring to commit or for aid-
ing and abetting violations of the accounting provisions.

For example, the subsidiary of a Houston-based
company pleaded guilty both to conspiring to commit and
to aiding and abetting the company’s books and records
and anti-bribery violations.*” The subsidiary paid bribes
of over $4 million and falsely characterized the payments

» «

as “commissions, “fees, or “legal services,’ consequently
causing the company’s books and records to be inaccurate.
Although the subsidiary was not an issuer and therefore
could not be charged directly with an accounting violation,
it was criminally liable for its involvement in the parent
company’s accounting violation.

Similarly, a U.S. subsidiary of a Swiss freight for-
warding company that was not an issuer was charged with
conspiring to commit and with aiding and abetting the
books and records violations of its customers, who were
issuers and therefore subject to the FCPA’s accounting
provisions.’ The USS. subsidiary substantially assisted the
issuer-customers in violating the FCPA’s books and records
provision by masking the true nature of the bribe payments
in the invoices it submitted to the issuer-customers.””! The
subsidiary thus faced criminal liability for its involvement
in the issuer-customers’ FCPA violations even though it

was not itself subject to the FCPA’s accounting provisions.

Auditor Obligations

All public companies in the United States must file
annual financial statements that have been prepared in
conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles (US. GAAP). These accounting principles are
among the most comprehensive in the world. U.S. GAAP
requires an accounting of all assets, liabilities, revenue, and

expenses as well as extensive disclosures concerning the

company’s operations and financial condition. A company’s
financial statements should be complete and fairly repre-
sent the company’s financial condition.”” Thus, under US.
GAAP, any payments to foreign government officials must
be properly accounted for in a company’s books, records,
and financial statements.

US. laws, including SEC Rules, require issuers to
undergo an annual external audit of their financial statements
and to make those audited financial statements available to
the public by filing them with SEC. SEC Rules and the rules
and standards issued by the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (PCAOB) under SEC oversight, require
external auditors to be independent of the companies that
they audit. Independent auditors must comply with the rules
and standards set forth by the PCAOB when they perform
an audit of a public company. These audit standards govern,
for example, the auditor’s responsibility concerning material
errors, irregularities, or illegal acts by a client and its officers,
directors, and employees. Additionally, the auditor has a
responsibility to obtain an understanding of an entity’s inter-
nal controls over financial reporting as part of its audit and
must communicate all significant deficiencies and material
weaknesses identified during the audit to management and
the audit committee.”

Under Section 10A of the Exchange Act, indepen-
dent auditors who discover an illegal act, such as the pay-
ment of bribes to domestic or foreign government officials,
have certain obligations in connection with their audits of
public companies. ’”* Generally, Section 10A requires audi-
tors who become aware of illegal acts to report such acts to
appropriate levels within the company and, if the company

fails to take appropriate action, to notify SEC.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022547

