Important Information

This document is intended only for Professional
Clients and Financial Advisers in Continental Europe
(as defined in the important information); for
Qualified Investors in Switzerland: for Professional
Clients in, Dubai, Jersey, Guernsey, Isle of Man,
Ireland and the UK, for Institutional Investors in the
United States and Australia, for Institutional Investors
and/or Accredited Investors in Singapore, for
Professional Investors only in Hong Kong, for Qualified
Institutional Investors, pension funds and distributing
companies in Japan; for Wholesale Investors (as
defined in the Financial Markets Conduct Act) in

New Zealand, for accredited investors as defined
under National Instrument 45-106 in Canada, for
certain specific Qualified Institutions/Sophisticated
Investors only in Taiwan and for one-on-one use with
Institutional Investors in Bermuda, Chile, Panama
and Peru.

For the distribution of this document, Continental
Europe is defined as Austria, Belgium, France,
Finaland, Greece, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal,
Denmark, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain,
Sweden and Switzerland.

This document is for information purposes only
and is not an offering. It is not intended for and should
not be distributed to, or relied upon by members of
the public. Circulation, disclosure, or dissemination
of all or any part of this material to any unauthorised
persons is prohibited.

All data provided by Invesco as at 31 March 2017,
unless otherwise stated. The opinions expressed
are current as of the date of this publication, are
subject to change without notice and may differ
from other Invesco investment professionals. The
document contains general information only and
does not take into account individual objectives,
taxation position or financial needs. Nor does this
constitute a recommendation of the suitability of any
investment strategy for a particular investor. This
is not an invitation to subscribe for shares in a fund
nor is it to be construed as an offer to buy or sell any
financial instruments. While great care has been taken
to ensure that the information contained herein is
accurate, no responsibility can be accepted for any
errors, mistakes or omissions or for any action taken
in reliance thereon. You may only reproduce, circulate
and use this document (or any part of it) with the
consent of Invesco.

48

Additional information for recipients in:
Australia
This document has been prepared only for those
persons to whom Invesco has provided it. It should
not be relied upon by anyone else. Information
contained in this document may not have been
prepared or tailored for an Australian audience and
does not constitute an offer of a financial product
in Australia. You should note that this information:
- may contain references to amounts which are not
in local currencies;
- may contain financial information which is not
prepared in accordance with Australian law
or practices:
- may not address risks associated with investment
in foreign currency denominated investments;
and does not address Australian tax issues.

Hong Kong

This document is provided to Professional Investors
in Hong Kong only {as defined in the Hong Kong
Securities and Futures Ordinance and the Securities
and Futures (Professional Investor) Rules).

New Zealand

This document is issued only to wholesale investors
in New Zealand to whom disclosure is not required
under Part 3 of the Financial Markets Conduct Act.
This document has been prepared only for those
persons to whom it has been provided by Invesco.

It should not be relied upon by anyone else and must
not be distributed to members of the public in New
Zealand. Information contained in this document may
not have been prepared or tailored for a New Zealand
audience. You may only reproduce, circulate and use
this document (or any part of it) with the consent

of Invesco. This document does not constitute and
should not be construed as an offer of, invitation

or proposal to make an offer for, recommendation

to apply for, an opinion or guidance on Interests to
members of the public in New Zealand. Applications
or any requests for information from persons who
are members of the public in New Zealand will not

be accepted.

Singapore

This document may not be circulated or distributed,
whether directly or indirectly, to persons in Singapore
other than to an institutional investor pursuant

to Section 304 of the Securities and Futures Act,
Chapter 289 of Singapore (the ‘SFA’) or otherwise
pursuant to, and in accordance with the conditions
of, any other applicable provision of the SFA. This
document is for the sole use of the recipient on an
institutional offer basis and/ or accredited investors
and cannot be distributed within Singapore by way
of a public offer, public advertisement or in any
other means of public marketing.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026728
