VIH. SUMMARY OF PARTNERSHIP TERMS

The following information is presented as a summary of the Fund’s principal terms only and 1s qualified
in its entirety by reference to the Fund's Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement (as
amended, restated or otherwise modified from time to time, the “Partnership Agreement”) and the
subscription agreement relating thereto (together with the Partnership Agreement, the “Agreements”),
copies of which will be provided to each prospective investor prior to the acceptance of any subscription.
Prior to making any investment in the Fund, the forms of such Agreements should be reviewed carefully.
If the terms described in this Memorandum are inconsistent with or contrary to the terms of the
Agreements, the Agreements shall control.

The Fund: New Leaf Ventures III, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership
(the “Fund”).
General Partner: New Leaf Venture Associates II, L.P., a Delaware limited

partnership (the “General Partner”), is the sole general partner
of the Fund. The general partner of the General Partner is New
Leaf Venture Management III, L.L.C, a Delaware limited
liability company (the “GPLLC”). The initial managing
members (the “Principals”) of the GPLLC are Philippe
Chambon, Jeani Delagardelle, Ronald Hunt, Vijay Lathi and
Liam Ratcliffe.

Investment Objective: To generate significant returns, principally through long-term
capital appreciation, by making, holding and disposing of
equity and equity-related investments, principally in healthcare,
medical device and life sciences companies.

Size of Offering: The Fund is targeting capital commitments (“Commitments”) of
$375 million with respect to limited partner interests (the
“Limited Partner Interests”). The General Partner may accept a
greater or lesser amount of Commitments from Limited
Partners (as defined below) in its discretion.

Minimum Investment: The minimum capital commitment of a limited partner to the
Fund (collectively, the “Limited Partners” and together with the
General Partner, the “Partners”) will be $5 million, although
individual capital commitments of lesser amounts may be
accepted at the discretion of the General Partner. The General
Partner may, in its discretion, reject any subscription that is
tendered.

Closing(s): The initial closing will occur as soon as practicable. The General
Partner may hold additional closings thereafter; provided that
the final closing will occur no later than 12 months after the
initial closing (the “Final Closing Date”).

Each Limited Partner admitted at a subsequent closing will be

46 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024057
