Jeffrey Katzenberg (born December 21, 1950) is an American

film producer and CEO of DreamWorks Animation. He
is perhaps most known for his period as chairman of The
Walt Disney Studios when Disney produced some of its
biggest hits, including The Little Mermaid, Beauty and the
Beast, Aladdin and The Lion King. As a founder and CEO
of DreamWorks Animation, he has overseen the production
of such animated franchises as Shrek, Madagascar, Kung Fu
Panda, Monsters vs. Aliens and How to Train Your Dragon.
Katzenberg was born in New York City, the son
of Anne, an artist, and Walter, a stockbroker. He attended
the Ethical Culture Fieldston School, graduating in 1969.
Katzenberg began his career as an assistant to
producer David Picker, then in 1974 he became an assistant
to Barry Diller, the Chairman of Paramount Pictures. Diller
moved Katzenberg to the marketing department, followed
by other assignments within the studio, until he was
assigned to revive the Star Trek franchise, which resulted
in the hit film, Star Trek: The Motion Picture (1979). He
continued to work his way up and became President of
Production under Paramount President Michael Eisner.
In 1984, Michael Eisner became Chief Executive
Officer (CEO) at The Walt Disney Company. Eisner brought
Katzenberg with him to take charge of Disney’s motion
picture division. Katzenberg was responsible for reviving
the studio which, at the time, ranked last at the box office
among the major studios. He focused the studio on the
production of adult-oriented comedies under its Touchstone
Pictures banner, including films such as Down and Out in
Beverly Hills (1986), Three Men and a Baby (1987) and Good
Morning, Vietnam (1987). By 1987, Disney had become
the number-one studio at the box office. Katzenberg also
oversaw Touchstone Television, which produced such hit
TV series, The Golden Girls and Home Improvement.
Katzenberg was also charged with turning around
Disney’s ailing Feature Animation unit, creating some
intrastudio controversy when he personally edited three
minutes out of a completed Disney animated feature, The
Black Cauldron (1985), shortly after joining the company.

Under his management, the animation department eventually
began creating some of Disney’s most critically acclaimed and
highest grossing animated features. These films include Who
Framed Roger Rabbit (1988), The Little Mermaid (1989),The
Rescuers Down Under (1990), Beauty and the Beast (1991,
the first animated feature to be nominated for an Academy
Award for Best Picture), Aladdin (1992), and The Lion King
(1994). In addition, Katzenberg also sealed the deal that
created the highly successful partnership between Pixar and
Disney and the deal that brought Miramax Films into Disney.

When Eisner’s second in command, Frank Wells,
died in a helicopter crash in 1994, Eisner refused to promote
Katzenberg to the vacated position of president. This led to
a falling out between the two executives, and Katzenberg
left the company in September 1994. He launched a lawsuit
against Disney to recover money he felt he was owed and
settled out of court for an estimated $250 million.

Later in 1994, Katzenberg co-founded
DreamWorks SKG with Steven Spielberg and David
Geffen, with Katzenberg taking primary responsibility for
animation operations. He was also credited as executive
producer on the DreamWorks animated films The Prince
of Egypt (1998), The Road to El Dorado and Joseph:
King of Dreams (both in 2000) and Shrek in 2001.

After DreamWorks Animation suffered a
$125 million loss on the traditionally-animated Sinbad:
Legend of the Seven Seas, the studio switched to all
computer-generated animation. Since then, DreamWorks’
animated films have been consistently successful.

In 2004, DreamWorks Animation (DWA)
was spun off from DreamWorks as a separate
company headed by Katzenberg in an IPO and has
recorded mostly profitable quarters since then.

The live-action DreamWorks movie studio was
sold to Viacom in December 2006. In 2008, the live-
action DreamWorks studio again became an independent
production company, releasing its films through Disney.

In 2006, Katzenberg made an appearance on the
fifth season of The Apprentice. He awarded the task winners

JEFFREY KATZENBERG

an opportunity to be character voices in Over the Hedge.

Katzenberg has been an industry leader in promoting
digital 3D production of film, calling it “the greatest advance
in the film industry since the arrival of color in the 1930s.”
When Katzenberg appeared on The Colbert Report on April
20, 2010, he confirmed that from now on “every single
movie” that DreamWorks Animation produced would be
in 3D and gave Stephen Colbert a pair of new 3D glasses.

Katzenberg married Marilyn Siegel, a kindergarten
teacher, in 1975, and they have two children.

Together, Marilyn and Jeffrey have been highly
active in charitable causes. They donated the multi-
million-dollar Katzenberg Center to Boston University’s
College of General Studies, citing that the school gave
their two children the “love of education.” They also
donated the Marilyn and Jeffrey Katzenberg Center for
Animation at the University of Southern California.

In addition to serving as Chairman of the Board
for the Motion Picture and Television Fund Foundation,
Katzenberg sits on the boards or serves as a trustee of AIDS
Project Los Angeles, American Museum of the Moving Image,
California Institute of the Arts, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center,
Geffen Playhouse, Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson’s
Research, University of Southern California School of
Cinematic Arts and The Simon Wiesenthal Center. Together
with DreamWorks Animation, Katzenberg founded the
DreamWorks Animation Academy of Inner-City Arts in 2008.

Katzenberg has an estimated worth of $800
million according to Forbes. Katzenberg is reported to
have donated over $3.5 million in political contributions
since 1979: 33% ($1.171+ million) to Democrats, 66%

($2.33+ million) to special interest groups without party
affiliations, and less than 1% ($7,000) to Republicans.

He was awarded an honorary doctorate from
Ringling College of Art and Design on May 2, 2008.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017547
