Subject:

The fire drill documents received should be the final nail in the coffin of Alan and Ada, . It is inexcusable,
, ludricrous and in brads words insane or yours,  unexplainable that the two people that you refer to as
your estate attnys , NEVER EVER took the time to actually read the documents that have the biggest efffect
on your family and estate upon death or disablity, its impossible.!!! IMPOSSIBLE . after telling me that they
were confident that everything had been read , and after years , of you telling me that Im not an attorney, it is
clear that my telling you that you have c quality people was over generous, , I received a first draft of the
summary of documents. you should read them for yourself. . executive committee issues. , unclear
tax. contradictory provisions,your reps having to rely possibly on a fall back to delaware law to protect your
interests, even suggesting that even if they would like to fall back , in some instances - no case law. _ other
crazy- provisions that are personal to you , instead of you and your successor ? two pages of  open to
interpretation .or aha , maybe something is wrong! asie, your rep, after death has no right for information
on BRH? ! if you and another founder are dead , the exec commitee has no decision authority, if josh and mark
want to fuck your heirs, its easy, black family partner docs dont deal with succession! YOU deserve better

fyi, after a month of brad ada and alan ,on the project, still not willing to share with me a final, they are
all embarassed. and full of excuses .

It will take wendy and a new team 6 to 9 months to put your house in order. , new cash flows. new
accounting system, airplane rethought, , you new hires can find deals , they can familiarize themselves with
your current investments , but should not be doing the accounting for them, .
your will is still not amended, ?! the tenants in common not even explained to you. if something happens to
you and debra, no real direction for the foundation. . etc

Date: Mon, Mar 21, 2016 at 4:17 AM

Subject:
To: Melanie Spinella PO

glad to see you are personally on the mend - as well as the fence. -- As you know i dread money
discussions with you-- however -we should address the issue of what you would like to do moving forward. re-
do family office, accounting trusts , estate and apollo agreements . Along with your  payment  last year

we agreed. no further obligations on each side. yes, i continued to moan. I realize that though Ive done
quite a lot this year already , it is not your responsibility. . As you often like to remind me- you've paid a
great deal of money to date. that being said - If you want my involvement moving foward, I suggest

you pay my regular | fee of 40 m. 20 now. 20 on completion or as per the invoice issues at the end of last
year pay 30 all at once. -

To help out .im keenly aware of your current cash position. so Iwill consider an in-kind payment - real
estate ( Miami ), ,art , financing of my new plane (allows you to spread over years or of course the preferred
cash. Get rid of Castrucci,it is over a year since the same story of findign the right guy at the top. you

entire accounting needs to be re done. , office downsized, reporting re done. meetings to recitify, categlorize
, the various docs re appollo , rowen , suydam, alan etc. Brad can direct investment guys, ( hopefully) my
people will be in your office for a few months . reorganizing IF you decide not to pay I fully understand, as I
m sure you will re my no longer spending any serious time on these things.

Of course re any non financial issues , Iam always there for you and will continue to be the best friend I can
be.

Steve jobs said that everyday he woke up , and asked himself , if he knew he was going to die tomorow , would

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023315
