54048

Federal Register/Vol. 76, No. 168/Tuesday, August 30, 2011/Rules and Regulations

TABLE TO § 104.204—Continued

Employer category

Jurisdictional standard

Art museums: cultural centers; liDAVCS! csncccnsasasncenanenmeeamurcetemnnenea NNER VaR ORMNRRRO NANI NNNS

Bandleaders .o.cccccccceecsssssseseeteeers

COMETELICS oo... cccccccccecccscstrteeeesssestireeeesesesstaneeeess

Colleges, universities, other private schools ............0:

Communications (radio, TV, cable, telephone, telegraph)
Credit UNIONS oo. nn nn enn Sennen nase nennedneessnennnaaenees

Day care centers ...
Gaming industry
Health care institutions:

Nursing homes, visiting nurses associations
Hospitals, blood banks, other health care facilities (including doctors’ and dentists’ offices)
Hotels ANd MOtelS oo. nn nen reer nni ese nieeenietineseeesneninisegs
Instrumentalities of interstate COMMEICE oo... ni eine tietiieseretinieegs

Labor organizations (as employers)
Law firms; legal service organizations
Newspapers (with interstate contacts)
Nonprofit charitable institutions

Office buildings; shopping centers
Private! GlUDS) ssseeuvecemecuvmmennence
Public utilities ...

RESTAUIANTS oo nnn ne ene eens tine neeeenenneiees
Social Services OrganiZaliOnS ssc cme ree

Symphony orchestras oe.
Taxicabs oo.

TIANnSIUSYSIOMS eens meee ere

$1 million.

Retail/nonretail (depends on customer).
$500,000.

$1 million.

$100,000.

Either retail or nonretail standard.
$250,000.

$500,000.

$100,000.

$250,000.

$500,000.

$50,000.

Nonretail standard.

$250,000.

$200,000.

Depends on the entity's substantive pur-
pose.

$100,000.

$500,000.

$250,000 or nonretail standard.

$500,000.

$250,000.

$1 million.

$500,000.

$250,000.

(3) If an employer can be classified
under more than one category, the
Board will assert jurisdiction if the
employer meets the jurisdictional
standard of any of those categories.

(4) There are a few employer
categories without specific
jurisdictional standards:

(i) Enterprises whose operations have
a substantial effect on national defense
or that receive large amounts of Federal
funds

(ii) Enterprises in the District of
Columbia

(iii) Financial information
organizations and accounting firms

(iv) Professional sports

(v) Stock brokerage firms

(vi) U. S. Postal Service

(5) A more complete discussion of the
Board’s jurisdictional standards may be
found in An Outline of Law and
Procedure in Representation Cases,
Chapter 1, found on the Board’s Web
site, hitp://www.nlrb.gov.

(e) This part does not apply to the
United States Postal Service.

Appendix to Subpart A—Text of
Employee Notice

“EMPLOYEE RIGHTS UNDER THE
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS ACT

The National Labor Relations Act (NLRA)
guarantees the right of employees to organize
and bargain collectively with their
employers, and to engage in other protected
concerted activity or to refrain from engaging
in any of the above activity. Employees
covered by the NLRA® are protected from
certain types of employer and union

misconduct. This Notice gives you general
information about your rights, and about the
obligations of employers and unions under
the NLRA. Contact the National Labor
Relations Board (NLRB), the Federal agency
that investigates and resolves complaints
under the NLRA, using the contact
information supplied below, if you have any
questions about specific rights that may
apply in your particular workplace.

“Under the NLRA, you have the right to:

e Organize a union to negotiate with your
employer concerning your wages, hours, and
other terms and conditions of employment.

e Form, join or assist a union.

e Bargain collectively through
representatives of employees’ own choosing
for a contract with your employer setting
your wages, benefits, hours, and other
working conditions.

e Discuss your wages and benefits and
other terms and conditions of employment or
union organizing with your co-workers or a
union.

e Take action with one or more co-workers
to improve your working conditions by,
among other means, raising work-related
complaints directly with your employer or
with a government agency, and seeking help
from a union.

e Strike and picket, depending on the
purpose or means of the strike or the
picketing.

e Choose not to do any of these activities,
including joining or remaining a member of
a union.

“Under the NLRA, it is illegal for your
employer to:

e Prohibit you from talking about or
soliciting for a union during non-work time,
such as before or after work or during break
times; or from distributing union literature

during non-work time, in non-work areas,
such as parking lots or break rooms.

e Question you about your union support
or activities in a manner that discourages you
from engaging in that activity.

e Fire, demote, or transfer you, or reduce
your hours or change your shift, or otherwise
take adverse action against you, or threaten
to take any of these actions, because you join
or support a union, or because you engage in
concerted activity for mutual aid and
protection, or because you choose not to
engage in any such activity.

e Threaten to close your workplace if
workers choose a union to represent them.

e Promise or grant promotions, pay raises,
or other benefits to discourage or encourage
union support.

e Prohibit you from wearing union hats,
buttons, t-shirts, and pins in the workplace
except under special circumstances.

e Spy on or videotape peaceful union
activities and gatherings or pretend to do so.

“Under the NLRA, it is illegal for a union
or for the union that represents you in
bargaining with your employer to:

e Threaten or coerce you in order to gain
your support for the union.

e Refuse to process a grievance because
you have criticized union officials or because
you are not a member of the union.

e Use or maintain discriminatory
standards or procedures in making job
referrals from a hiring hall.

e Cause or attempt to cause an employer
to discriminate against you because of your
union-related activity.

e Take adverse action against you because
you have not joined or do not support the
union.

“If you and your co-workers select a union
to act as your collective bargaining
representative, your employer and the union

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022319
