Federal Register/Vol. 76, No. 168/Tuesday, August 30, 2011/Rules and Regulations

54021

misleading and vague. The first
comment, from COLLE, argues that the
provision is misleading because it fails
to acknowledge that an employer does
not have an obligation under the NLRA
to consent to the establishment of a
collective-bargaining agreement, but
instead only has the statutory duty to
“meet at reasonable times and confer in
good faith with respect to wages, hours,
and other terms and conditions of
employment.” 29 U.S.C. 158(d). The
comment also argues that the failure to
reach an agreement is not per se
unlawful, and the finding of an unfair
labor practice depends on whether the
parties engaged in good-faith bargaining.
This comment suggests that the notice
should instead note that the NLRA
requires parties to bargain in good faith
but does not compel agreement or the
making of concessions, and that, in
some instances, a bargaining impasse
will result, permitting the parties to
exercise their economic weapons, such
as strikes or lockouts. The second
comment, made generally by more than
a few organizations and individuals,
suggests that the notice add a statement
indicating that employers and unions
have an obligation to bargain in good
faith.

The Board finds it unnecessary to add
the suggested amplifications. For one
thing, the notice does state that
employers and unions have a duty to
bargain in good faith, “in a genuine
effort to reach a written, binding
agreement setting your terms and
conditions of employment.” In the
Board’s view, the statement that the
parties must make a ‘‘genuine effort” to
reach agreement necessarily implies that
they are not, in the end, required to
reach one. The Board deems the notice
language to be adequate on this point.
Finally, for the reasons already
discussed, the Board rejects the
contention that the notice should
discuss the implications or
consequences of unsuccessful
bargaining.

iii. The Right To Discuss With Co-
Workers or Union

A comment from the National
Immigration Law Center suggests that
the use of the phrase “terms and
conditions of employment” is unclear
especially to employees who are
unaware of their rights under the NLRA.
The comment recommends that, in
order to clarify, the Board add the
phrase “including wages and benefits.”
The suggested language would read,
“you have the right to: discuss your
terms and conditions of employment,
including wages and benefits, or union

organizing with your co-workers ora
union.”

The Board agrees that adding the
suggested language would clarify the
provision. The list of affirmative rights
uses the terms ‘‘wages, hours, and other
terms and conditions of employment” to
describe what unions may negotiate.
The notice then uses the terms “wages,
benefits, hours, and other working
conditions” to describe the right to
bargain collectively for a contract. Those
statements make it clear that “terms and
conditions of employment” includes
wages and benefits. But then
immediately following those two
statements, the notice states that
employees may discuss ‘“‘terms and
conditions of employment,” but does
not include any clarifying language. In
order, to create a more uniform notice
and clarify the extent to which
employees may discuss their terms and
conditions of employment the final
notice will read, “Under the NLRA, you
have a right to: Discuss your wages and
benefits and other terms and conditions
of employment or union organizing with
your co-workers or a union.”

iv. The Right To Strike and Picket

The notice’s reference to the right to
strike and picket received a few
comments from law firms and other
organizations representing employers’
interests. The comments suggest that the
provision is flawed because of the
absence of further limitations,
exceptions, and distinctions.1°¢
Generally, the comments argue that not
all strikes and pickets are protected.
COLLE argues that the notice should
inform employees of the limitations of
strikes encompassed by “depending on
the purpose or means of the strike or
pickets’’—for example, whether the
strike is for recognition or bargaining,
whether the strike has a secondary
purpose, whether picketing involves a
reserved gate, whether the strike is a sit-
down or minority strike, whether the
conduct is a slowdown and not a full
withholding of work, whether the strike
is partial or intermittent, whether the
strike involves violence, and whether
the strike is an unfair labor practice
strike or an economic strike. ALFA
argues that employees should be
informed that if the employer is a
healthcare institution, “employees do
not have the right to participate in a
union-initiated strike or picket unless
the union has provided the employer
and federal and state mediation agencies
with the required 10 days notice.”

106 See comments of ALFA, Carrollton Health and
Rehabilitation Center, and COLLE.

The Board disagrees. By necessity, an
11x17-inch notice cannot contain an
exhaustive list of limitations on and
exceptions to the rights to strike and
picket, as suggested by employers.
However, because exercising the right to
strike can significantly affect the
livelihood of employees, the Board
considers it important to alert
employees that there are some
limitations to exercising this right. The
Board is satisfied that the general
caveat, “depending on the purpose or
means of the strike or the picketing,”
together with the instruction to contact
the NLRB with specific questions about
the application of rights in certain
situations, provides sufficient guidance
to employees about the exercise of their
rights while still staying within the
constraints set by a necessarily brief
employee notice.

v. The Right To Refrain From Union or
Other Protected Concerted Activity

All the comments that discuss the
right to refrain from engaging in union
activity criticize what they contend to
be its lack of prominence. ALFA accuses
the Board of ‘‘burying” the provision by
placing it last, below the other rights to
engage in union and other concerted
activity. The U.S. Chamber of
Commerce suggests that the notice
include “‘or not’”’ after each of the
enumerated rights. For example, ‘‘you
have the right to: form join or assist a
union, or not.” (Emphasis added.) Other
suggested revisions to amplify the
prominence of the provision include
stating that employees have the right to
refrain from protected, concerted
activities and/or union activities; stating
that employees’ right to refrain includes
the right to actively oppose
unionization, to not sign union
authorization cards, to request a secret
ballot election, to not be a member of a
union or pay dues or fees (addressed
further below), or to decertify a union
(also addressed below); and stating that
employees have the right to be fairly
represented even if not a member of the
union. One employer suggests that if the
notice retains its current emphasis
favoring union activity and disfavoring
the freedom to refrain from such
activity, employers will need to post
their own notices that emphasize and
elaborate on the right to refrain.

The Board received at least four
comments that argue that the notice, as
written, may make employees believe
that the employer is encouraging
unionization. Two of those comments
suggest that an employer is protected
from compelled speech by Section 8(c)
of the NLRA. (The Board has already
rejected the latter argument; see section

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022292
