COWEN
COLLABORATIVE INSIGHTS February 25, 2019

- The Science Of CBD (Nadeau)

The Endocannabinoid System

Cannabis’ therapeutic potential is due to this valuable overlap between
phytocannabinoids (i.e. plant-derived cannabinoids) and the endogenous cannabinoid
system in humans, termed a “therapeutic handshake.” However, though THC’s activity in
the body has been fairly well elucidated (it acts through G-protein coupled cannabinoid
receptor 1 and cannabinoid receptor 2), CBD’s pharmacokinetics are less well
understood (no specific receptor for CBD has been identified).

The scientific understanding of CBD’s clinical effects is based mostly on studies in
specific indications, like epilepsy. GW Pharma’s Epidiolex (highly potent, pure
formulation of CBD) was approved by the FDA in 2018 for the treatment of seizures
associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome and Dravet syndrome, and other companies
(Tilray, MMJ Phytotech, Insys) have clinical trials underway in seizure disorders as well.
Additional possible indications for CBD products include autism spectrum disorders,
psychiatric conditions, diabetic neuropathy pain, fibromyalgia, chronic pain, and back
pain; clinical trials in these indications are underway.

Clinical trial results to date demonstrate few adverse effects from oral CBD doses of up
to 1500 mg/day or up to 30mg IV. Specifically, CBD studies have not reported effects on
blood pressure, heart rate, or respiratory rate, and no negative changes in mood or
psychomotor slowing. Some studies (such as GW’s in Epidiolex) have shown side effects
resulting from high doses of CBD (~2g/day) inhibiting hepatic drug metabolism,
prompting increased blood levels of some background medications. Additionally, in vitro
studies have shown CBD to be pro-apoptotic in lymphocytes and to inhibit IL8 and IL10
production, suggesting that it may suppress the immune system. However, though
unknowns remain, the summation of pre-clinical and clinical data suggest that the
compound is safe at typical doses seen in over the counter products (5-10mg).

—

Additionally, other cannabinoids (found in CBD distillate) have been discovered that may
have differentiated pharmacological effects. For example, cannabidivarin (CBDV) may
have differentiated anticonvulsant effects, tetrahydrocannabivarin (THCV) may have
anti-diabetic and appetite suppressant effects, cannabidiol-acid (CBDA) may have anti-
nausea effects, and bannabigerol (CBG) may have anti-cancer effects. Further research
is needed to elucidate the clinical effects of these compounds.

10 COWEN.COM

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024826
