26

The Puzzle of Optimism

While the past few years have seen important advances in the
neuroscience of optimism, one enduring puzzle remained. How 1s it
that people maintain this rosy bias even when information
challenging our upbeat forecasts is so readily available? Only
recently have we been able to decipher this mystery, by scanning the
brains of people as they process both positive and negative
information about the future. The findings are striking: when people
learn, their neurons faithfully encode desirable information that can
enhance optimism but fail at incorporating unexpectedly undesirable
information. When we hear a success story like Mark Zuckerberg's,
our brains take note of the possibility that we too may become
immensely rich one day. But hearing that the odds of divorce are
almost 1 in 2 tends not to make us think that our own marriages may
be destined to fail. Why would our brains be wired in this way? It is
tempting to speculate that optimism was selected by evolution
precisely because, on balance, positive expectations enhance the odds
of survival. Research findings that optimists live longer and are
healthier, plus the fact that most humans display optimistic biases —
and emerging data that optimism is linked to specific genes — all
strongly support this hypothesis. Yet optimism is also irrational and
can lead to unwanted outcomes. The question then is, How can we
remain hopeful — benefiting from the fruits of optimism — while at
the same time guarding ourselves from its pitfalls?

I believe knowledge is key. We are not born with an innate
understanding of our biases. The brain's illusions have to be
identified by careful scientific observation and controlled
experiments and then communicated to the rest of us. Once we are
made aware of our optimistic illusions, we can act to protect
ourselves. The good news is that awareness rarely shatters the
illusion. The glass remains half full. It is possible, then, to strike a

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030293
