53

to an adversary intelligence services on the prowl for a source. If any party was looking for a
disgruntled US employees, Snowden’s Internet chatter about bad choices in gambling could
arouse its interest. That Snowden used his TheTrueHooHa alias for these Internet posting would
not prevent a sophisticated espionage organization, such as the Russian Intelligence service, from
quickly uncovering that his true identity was Edward Snowden. Nor would it be difficult to place
him at the CIA since, it will be recalled, he was listed by his true name on the roster of the US
Mission to the UN. By consulting personnel records it would further emerge that he did not
actually work for the State Department. Since it was no secret, at least to the Russian
Intelligence services, that the US mission in Geneva housed the CIA station for all of Switzerland,
it was probable that this brittle gambler who played the options market worked for the CIA. Even
though it cannot be precluded that Snowden was spotted in Geneva by another intelligence
service, there is no evidence, at least that I know of, to suggest that he was approached by one.
Nor is there reason to believe that if he had been contacted by a foreign service in 2008, he would
have responded positively. Despite his indiscreet posting about his outside activities, he
apparently still respected the boundaries of secrecy that had been clearly defined in the oath he
had taken in the CIA. For example, after the New York Times published an article revealing
secret American intelligence activities in Iran on January 11, 2009, Snowden railed against the
newspaper on the Internet under his True HOOHA alias, He wrote “This shit is classified for a
reason... It’s because this shit won’t work if Iran knows what we are doing.” He clearly
recognized that revealing intelligence sources was extremely damaging. As for the New York
Times, he said “Hopefully they’ll finally go bankrupt this year.” When another Internet user asked
him if it was unethical to release national security secrets, he answered,” YEEEEEEEEEES.”

Nevertheless, he had his career-ending problem at the CIA. As with every CIA officer, he had
to undergo a two year evaluation and take a routine polygraph test. It was then, in December
2008, that his superior at the CIA placed the “derog” in his file. The reason remains somewhat
murky. According to a New York Times story by veteran intelligence reporter Eric Schmitt,
Snowden’s superior had suspected that Snowden “was trying to break into classified computer
files to which he was not authorized to have access.” Schmitt evidently had well-placed sources in
the CIA. He said that he interviewed two senior American officials who were familiar with the
case. According to what they told Schmitt, the CIA superior had decided to “send Snowden
home.” Officially, however, according to a CIA reply to the New York Times report, Snowden
had not been fired or accused of attempting to “break into classified computer files to which he
did not have authorized access.” The discrepancy was explained to me by a former CIA officer
who had also been at the US Mission in Geneva. He said that the spin the CIA put on the story
was “necessary containment.” After the Snowden breach occurred in June 2013, the CIA had a
problem which could, as he put it, “blow up in its face.” If Snowden had been fired but allowed
to keep his secrecy clearance in 2009, the CIA’s incompetency could be partly blamed for the
NSA’s subsequent employment of him. If he had broken into a computer he was not authorized,
he should have been fired, if not arrested. What this spin glossed over, according to this former
CIA officer, is the part of Snowden’s behavior that concerned his superior. Technically,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020205
