“Even though we're testing now, once you actually have the system up, you don’t know what the bugs will be,” said Amy
Fauver, spokeswoman for Cover Oregon, the state agency implementing the law there.

In California, which has the nation’s largest uninsured population, health officials have begun hinting that they may havea
similar problem.

“It's a complex system, and there’s a lot of navigation that needs to happen,” said Oscar Hidalgo, a spokesman for Covered
California. He said the agency will know by early September whether the system will be ready in time.

If not, he said, customers will still be able to log on to the Web site and peruse insurance plans and view prices. When they
get to the final step, however, they will not be able to sign up. They will have to contact a customer service representative to
complete the final enrollment step.

Officials with the District of Columbia’s Health Link decided to put off building a Spanish version of its Web site until later this
year, giving its staff bandwidth to complete other tasks they see more critical to the launch.

Until then, the District will have bilingual call-center workers and in-person helpers who will be able to help Spanish speakers
navigate the site.

The hiccups are troubling to advocates, who worry that there will be mistakes that result in people being erroneously
rejected by Medicaid or denied subsidies to which they are entitled. They are concerned that impediments will discourage
the uninsured from signing up for coverage.

“There will be something up and running, but there will be serious, serious difficulties with it” that could result in delays and
errors initially, said Robert H. Bonthius Jr., a lawyer at the Legal Aid Society of Cleveland. “It’s an extremely ambitious
program, well-intentioned, that is going to be very difficult to accomplish, and it’s going to be months and maybe years
before it really gets sorted out.”

Much of the difficulty stems from the information the federal government needs to determine who qualifies for which health-
law program, including data on citizenship, income, residence and employment. State systems will need to communicate
seamlessly with a federal data hub that pulls in information from the Department of Homeland Security and the Internal
Revenue Service, among others.

President Obama has predicted “bumps” and “glitches” in the initial launch of the exchanges. Health and Human Services
Secretary Kathleen Sebelius has acknowledged a very tight time frame that has required the government to test the hub in
imperfect conditions, but she has said it will still launch on time.

“Ideally what you would do if you were building a data hub that needs this kind of information, you’d put a piece together and
test that. You test it, if you will, sequentially,” she said in an interview. “We have to build and test simultaneously. ... It’s a big
operational issue, but all systems are a go for the first of October.”

Sixteen states decided to build their own health-insurance marketplaces, with the rest leaving all or much of the task to the
federal government. Those states are now in the process of, or have completed, testing to share data back and forth with the
data hub.

“There were times when the hub had to be taken offline. .. . So we couldn't test until they got it back online,” said Jon Hager,
executive director of Nevada’s Silver State Health Insurance Exchange. “But | think the end result, and everything I’ve seen,

says it will be ready.”

Hager has invested significant time preparing contingency plans for his state, including one for a situation in which the
federal data hub does not work, though he said he believes that to be a relatively unlikely scenario.

“If there’s a new rule, that could throw us into a quandary,” Hager said. “You could have, | don’t know, a disaster ora fire. |
think we’ve got backup and contingency plans for everything.”

The federal government handles all testing of these connections for states that did not build a portal and chose instead to

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028635
