the extent of exculpatory evidence. Then, after months of elaborate negotiations, the state prosecutors believed
they had reached a reasoned resolution of the matter that vindicated the public interest -- a resolution entirely
consistent with that of cases involving other similarly-situated defendants.

Then, in came the feds. The United States Attorney's Office tried, to no avail, to fit Mr. Epstein's situation into
its vision of what it viewed as a commercial trafficking ring targeting minors. This was anything but. At long
last, the federal authorities acknowledged that stark reality and grudgingly agreed to defer prosecution to the
state. But there was a huge catch. In the face of our arguments sharply condemning their overreach, the
federal prosecutors insisted on many unorthodox requirements that tugged at fundamental values of due
process. For example, the agreement required Mr. Epstein to pay an undisclosed list of asserted victims
$150,000 each. Even more, the feds insisted that Jeffrey pay for an attorney to represent such unidentified
victims if any chose to filed civil litigation against him. When asked what possible legal authority supported
this extravagant exercise of national power, the feds lamely cited a wildly inapposite case from Alaska
involving cocaine and forced on-the-street prostitution. Apples and oranges.

Under the federally-forced deal, Jeffrey was sentenced to jail. That would not have been the case under the
agreed-upon state disposition of this non-violent, consensual commercial arrangement. Jeffrey complied,
served that sentence, and in the process was treated exactly the same as other state-incarcerated

individuals. His conduct was exemplary, and so characterized by the state custodial authorities. He continued
his work, including his many philanthropic efforts.

Our friend Jeffrey Epstein has paid his debt to society. He has also paid out millions of dollars to the asserted
victims and their highly-creative lawyers. For over ten years, he has lived an exemplary life, including
carrying on his wide-ranging philanthropies. Those of us who represented him in the Florida proceedings -- for
customary professional fees -- now count him as a trusted friend.

Our nation faces vitally important challenges, many involving the treatment of women and basic human
dignity. Voices are rightly being raised speaking truth to power, especially about women in the

workplace. But Jeffrey, an exemplary employer, has long since been called to account by the criminal justice
system for his misdeeds of yesteryear. In the spirit of the bedrock American belief in second chances, that
unhappy chapter in Jeffrey's otherwise-magnificent life should be allowed to close once and for all.

On Thu, Dec 13, 2018 at 4:24 PM J <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote:
ken ,would take a stab at the article for the law journal. ? thx

please note
The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of
JEE
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited
and may be unlawful. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and
destroy this communication and all copies thereof,
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030319
