http://offourchests.com/taking-care-of-each-other/

MANLINESS:
[theory] Questions I Want To Ask Entitled Cis Het Men

I wrote this piece in 2009. It was the culmination of years I'd spent thinking about
masculinity, manliness, and men's gender role. I was relatively new to blogging, and I
hadn't yet established myself. I thought that the most controversial things I would ever
write would be about S&M. I was wrong.

I published this in three parts, and it got a huge response. The major feminist blog Alas!
A Blog asked to repost it, for example, but there was a much bigger reaction among non-
feminist and anti-feminist men. Some wrote responses with titles like Answers for an
Entitled Feminist.” Others actually came over to my blog and engaged me, with varying
results. It kicked off a long, dense discussion in my blog Comments section, which lasted
for over a year and thousands of comments. I wrote a number of followups, including
some that got me labeled brainwashed by the patriarchy by other feminist women.

Some of the guys I was talking to got me interested in the pickup artist subculture or
seduction community -- a group of men who trade tips, tricks, and tactics on how to
seduce women. Eventually, I did an in-depth investigation of that subculture and wrote
the book Confessions of a Pickup Artist Chaser: Long Interviews with Hideous Men,
which contains some of my best work on masculinity, communication, and sexuality. You
can buy that on Smashwords at this link:
https://www.smashwords.com/books/view/14445 1

One thing I've discovered over the last few years, as I learned more about the history of
feminism, is that there are excellent reasons why most feminists are unwilling to talk
about men's problems. There's a ton of politics involved, and a lot of very justified fears
about the political ground we could lose. We still have a long way to go when it comes to
gender equality. But I do believe that those fears are often overblown.

And I've also discovered that there's a subgroup of feminists that's much more likely to be
open to talking about men's experience: it's the sex-positive feminists, especially the
S&M feminists. To be sure, there are exceptions. Plenty of S&M feminists see no reason
to discuss men's experience, and of course, plenty of S&M feminists don't like my writing
in particular. But most feminist essays I've found about masculinity were written by
women who openly admitted that they were into S&M -- Gayle Rubin, author of the
pioneering sexuality essay Thinking Sex, is one good example. Maybe the S&M
feminists are the ones most likely to intuitively understand that power is never a one-
dimensional picture or a one-way street.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018573
