Federal Register/Vol. 76, No. 168/Tuesday, August 30, 2011/Rules and Regulations

54047

employees concerning personnel rules
or policies are customarily posted.
Where 20 percent or more of an
employer’s workforce is not proficient
in English and speaks a language other
than English, the employer must post
the notice in the language employees
speak. If an employer’s workforce
includes two or more groups
constituting at least 20 percent of the
workforce who speak different
languages, the employer must either
physically post the notice in each of
those languages or, at the employer’s
option, post the notice in the language
spoken by the largest group of
employees and provide each employee
in each of the other language groups a
copy of the notice in the appropriate
language. If an employer requests from
the Board a notice in a language in
which it is not available, the requesting
employer will not be liable for non-
compliance with the rule until the
notice becomes available in that
language. An employer must take
reasonable steps to ensure that the
notice is not altered, defaced, covered
by any other material, or otherwise
rendered unreadable.

(e) Obtaining a poster with the
employee notice. A poster with the
required employee notice, including a
poster with the employee notice
translated into languages other than
English, will be printed by the Board,
and may be obtained from the Board’s
office, 1099 14th Street, NW.,
Washington, DC 20570, or from any of
the Board’s regional, subregional, or
resident offices. Addresses and
telephone numbers of those offices may
be found on the Board’s Web site at
http://www.nirb.gov. A copy of the
poster in English and in languages other
than English may also be downloaded
from the Board’s Web site at http://
www.nirb.gov. Employers also may
reproduce and use copies of the Board’s
official poster, provided that the copies
duplicate the official poster in size,
content, format, and size and style of
type. In addition, employers may use
commercial services to provide the
employee notice poster consolidated
onto one poster with other Federally
mandated labor and employment
notices, so long as the consolidation
does not alter the size, content, format,
or size and style of type of the poster
provided by the Board.

(f) Electronic posting of employee
notice. (1) In addition to posting the
required notice physically, an employer
must also post the required notice on an
intranet or internet site if the employer
customarily communicates with its
employees about personnel rules or
policies by such means. An employer
that customarily posts notices to
employees about personnel rules or
policies on an intranet or internet site
will satisfy the electronic posting
requirement by displaying
prominently—i.e., no less prominently
than other notices to employees—on
such a site either an exact copy of the
poster, downloaded from the Board’s
Web site, or a link to the Board’s Web
site that contains the poster. The link to
the Board’s Web site must read,
“Employee Rights under the National
Labor Relations Act.”

(2) Where 20 percent or more of an
employer’s workforce is not proficient
in English and speaks a language other
than English, the employer must
provide notice as required in paragraph
(f)(1) of this section in the language the
employees speak. If an employer's
workforce includes two or more groups
constituting at least 20 percent of the
workforce who speak different
languages, the employer must provide
the notice in each such language. The
Board will provide translations of the
link to the Board’s Web site for any
employer that must or wishes to display
the link on its Web site. If an employer
requests from the Board a notice in a
language in which it is not available, the
requesting employer will not be liable
for non-compliance with the rule until
the notice becomes available in that
language.

§ 104.203 Are Federal contractors covered
under this part?

Yes, Federal contractors are covered.
However, contractors may comply with
the provisions of this part by posting the
notices to employees required under the
Department of Labor’s notice-posting
rule, 29 CFR part 471.

§ 104.204 What entities are not subject to
this part?

(a) The following entities are
excluded from the definition of
“employer” under the National Labor
Relations Act and are not subject to the
requirements of this part:

TABLE TO § 104.204

(1) The United States or any wholly
owned Government corporation;

(2) Any Federal Reserve Bank;

(3) Any State or political subdivision
thereof;

(4) Any person subject to the Railway
Labor Act;

(5) Any labor organization (other than
when acting as an employer); or

(6) Anyone acting in the capacity of
officer or agent of such labor
organization.

(b) In addition, employers employing
exclusively workers who are excluded
from the definition of ‘“‘employee”’
under § 104.201 are not covered by the
requirements of this part.

(c) This part does not apply to entities
over which the Board has been found
not to have jurisdiction, or over which
the Board has chosen through regulation
or adjudication not to assert
jurisdiction.

(d)(1) This part does not apply to
entities whose impact on interstate
commerce, although more than de
minimis, is so slight that they do not
meet the Board’s discretionary
jurisdiction standards. The most
commonly applicable standards are:

(i) The retail standard, which applies
to employers in retail businesses,
including home construction. The Board
will take jurisdiction over any such
employer that has a gross annual
volume of business of $500,000 or more.

(ii) The nonretail standard, which
applies to most other employers. It is
based either on the amount of goods
sold or services provided by the
employer out of state (called ‘“‘outflow’’)
or goods or services purchased by the
employer from out of state (called
“inflow’’). The Board will take
jurisdiction over any employer with an
annual inflow or outflow of at least
$50,000. Outflow can be either direct—
to out-of-state purchasers—or indirect—
to purchasers that meet other
jurisdictional standards. Inflow can also
be direct—purchased directly from out
of state—or indirect—purchased from
sellers within the state that purchased
them from out-of-state sellers.

(2) There are other standards for
miscellaneous categories of employers.
These standards are based on the
employer’s gross annual volume of
business unless stated otherwise. These
standards are listed in the Table to this
section.

Employer category

Jurisdictional standard

Amusement industry
Apartment houses, condominiums, cooperatives
Architects

$500,000.
$500,000.
Nonretail standard.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022318
