(Rome, Milan, Florence), Spain (Madrid, Valencia, Sevilla), and Holland (Amsterdam). In all of these
places, it is possible to live well while spending little. I spend less in Tokyo than in California because I
know it well. Hip, recently gentrified artist areas, not unlike the Brooklyn of 10 years ago, can be found
in almost all cities. The one place I can’t seem to find a decent lunch for less than $20 U.S.? London.

Here are a few exotic places I don’t recommend for vagabonding virgins, though veterans can make
them all work: all countries in Africa, the Middle East, or Central and South America (excepting Costa
Rica and Argentina). Mexico City and Mexican border areas are also a bit too kidnap-happy to make it
onto my favorites list.

4. Prepare for your trip. Here’s the countdown.

=» Three months out— Eliminate

Get used to minimalism before the departure. Here are the questions to ask and act upon, even if you
never plan to leave:

What is the 20% of my belongings that I use 80% of the time? Eliminate the other 80% in clothing,
magazines, books, and all else. Be ruthless— you can always repurchase things you can’t live without.

Which belongings create stress in my life? This could relate to maintenance costs (money and energy),
insurance, monthly expenses, time consumption, or simple distraction. Eliminate, eliminate, eliminate. If
you sell even a few expensive items, it could finance a good portion of your mini-retirement. Don’t rule
out the car and home. It’s always possible to purchase either upon your return, often losing no money in
the process.

Check current health insurance coverage for extended overseas travel. Get the wheels in motion to
rent, swap, or sell your home—renting out is most recommended by serial vagabonds—or end your
apartment lease and move all belongings into storage.

In all cases where doubts crop up, ask yourself, “If I had a gun to my head and had to do it, how
would I do it?” It’s not as hard as you think.

= Two months out— Automate

After eliminating the excess, contact companies (including suppliers) that bill you regularly and set up
autopayment with credit cards that have reward points. Telling them that you will be traveling the world
for a year often persuades them to accept credit cards rather than chase you around the planet like
Carmen Sandiego.

For the credit card companies themselves and others that refuse, arrange automatic debit from your
checking account. Set up online banking and bill payment. Set up all companies that won’t take credit
cards or automatic debit as online payees. Set these scheduled checks for $15—20 more than expected
when dealing with utilities and other variable expenses. This will cover miscellaneous fees, prevent time-
consuming billing problems, and accrue as a credit. Cancel paper bank and credit card statement
delivery. Get bank-issued credit cards for all checking accounts— generally one for business and one for
personal—and set the cash advances to $0 to minimize abuse potential. Leave these cards at home, as
they are just for emergency overdraft protection.

Give a trusted member of your family and/or your accountant power of attorney, which gives that
person authority to sign documents (tax filings and checks, for example) in your name. Nothing screws

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013967
