The Russians Are Coming | 231

was a place to begin. The Internet provided the SVR with just this
opportunity. As you will recall, holes in the security of the com-
puter networks of the U.S. Office of Personnel Management and
USIS and the websites of the companies supplying the NSA with
independent contractors had made the background checks on Ameri-
can intelligence workers available to the Chinese, and presumably
other adversary intelligence service hackers, since 2011. If the SVR
had access to this personnel data, the research for a candidate would
be greatly facilitated. From the 127-page Standard Form 86, which
each applicant for a security clearance submits, the SVR could filter
out intelligence workers employed by the NSA by their educational
background, employment history, affiliations, and foreign contacts.
It could then search this data for candidates with a possible hacktiv-
ist profile.

This data could next be crossed with a list of individuals the SVR
knew were in contact with high-profile activists who were part of the
anti-surveillance movements. This would include core participants
in the Tor Project, WikiLeaks, Noisebridge, CryptoParties, the Free-

© dom of the Press Foundation, and the Electronic Frontier Founda- ©
tion. (Snowden, for example, had been in touch with members of all
these groups in 2012 and 2013.)

The SVR would have little problem monitoring even encrypted
communications with leading figures in the anti-surveillance world.
These activists, despite secrecy rituals such as putting their cell
phones in refrigerators, remain visible to a sophisticated intelligence
service such as the SVR. All the defensive tactics of Laura Poitras,
including PGP encryption, Tor software, and air-gapped computers
(computers that have never been connected to the Internet), did not
keep secrets about her sources entirely to herself. Snowden, at a time
when he was stealing NSA secrets in February 2013, went to great
lengths to impress on Poitras the need for operational security about
his contacts with her, but that injunction did not prevent her from
telling at least five people about her source, including Micah Lee, the
Berkeley-based technology operative for the Freedom of the Press
Foundation; Jacob Appelbaum, the Tor proselytizer; Ben Wizner, the
ACLU lawyer; Barton Gellman; and Glenn Greenwald. “It is not me
that can’t keep a secret,” Abraham Lincoln joked. “It’s the people I

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.indd 231 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019719
