—listen to him!”

— MICHAEL D. KERLIN, McKinsey & Company consultant to Bush-Clinton Katrina Fund and a J.
William Fulbright Scholar

“Part scientist and part adventure hunter, Tim Ferriss has created a road map for an entirely new
world. I devoured this book in one sitting —I have seen nothing like it.”

— CHARLES L. BROCK, chairman and CEO of Brock Capital Group; former CFO, COO, and
general counsel of Scholastic, Inc.; and former president of the Harvard Law School Association

“Outsourcing is no longer just for Fortune 500 companies. Small and mid-sized firms, as well as
busy professionals, can outsource their work to increase their productivity and free time for more
important commitments. It’s time for the world to take advantage of this revolution.”

— VIVEK KULKARNI, CEO of Brickwork India and former IT secretary of Bangalore; credited as
the “techno-bureaucrat” who helped make Bangalore an IT destination in India

“Tim is the master! I should know. I followed his rags to riches path and watched him transform
himself from competitive fighter to entrepreneur. He tears apart conventional assumptions until he
finds a better way.”

—DAN PARTLAND, Emmy Award—winning producer of American High and Welcome to the
Dollhouse

“The 4-Hour Workweek is an absolute necessity for those adventurous souls who want to live life
to its fullest. Buy it and read it before you sacrifice any more!”

— JOHN LUSK, group product manager at Microsoft World Headquarters
“If you want to live your dreams now, and not in 20 or 30 years, buy this book!”

— LAURA RODEN, chairman of the Silicon Valley Association of Startup Entrepreneurs and a
lecturer in Corporate Finance at San Jose State University

“With this kind of time management and focus on the important things in life, people should be
able to get 15 times as much done in a normal workweek.”

—TIM DRAPER, founder of Draper Fisher Jurvetson, financiers to innovators including Hotmail,
Skype, and Overture.com

“Tim has done what most people only dream of doing. I can’t believe he is going to let his secrets
out of the bag. This book is a must read!”

— STEPHEN KEY, top inventor and team designer of Teddy Ruxpin and Lazer Tag and a consultant
to the television show American Inventor

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013797
