96 Teaching Minds

A story-centered curriculum is intended to teach cognitive pro-
cesses, not subjects. Subjects are, of course, covered, but they are not
really the point. Certain things need to be done again and again in
life, but those things can be learned only in context, not as an ab-
straction. Different contexts must be provided in order to motivate
students and to provide real-world skills that will be remembered, not
because they were studied and tested, but because they were practiced
again and again.

What is life like in a story-centered curriculum? The first ones we
built were built as master’s degree programs at Carnegie Mellon’s new
West Coast campus. Here is Max Soderby, a mentor in the first one of
those master’s programs, talking about his experience:

Iam almost jealous in a way because I see that they are gaining
skills more rapidly than I gained them when I was a student in
Pittsburgh at CMU’s campus. They get exposure to things that
we just talked about in a lecture hall, whereas they are actually
doing it: implementing actual software and putting designs
into practice. We mostly did homework and talked about it ina
lecture hall. So I am jealous in that respect. It is also a lot more
work, but that work pays off for the students.

Subject-based education is not really supposed to be training for work.
I once proposed to the president of Yale (Bart Giamatti) that we build
a master’s degree program in an area of computer science that would
help get people jobs after graduation. He said that that was training
and that Yale does not do training. The academic subjects taught at
Yale are meant to produce scholars. But, in a way, he was very wrong.
Yale does do training. Yale and almost all other colleges are divided
into departments, and a major in a department’s subject typically
is seen by the faculty as preparation for an academic career in that
subject.

The students may well have a different point of view, however.
Unfortunately, they come away disappointed. An English major could
be hoping to become a journalist, but the education that he will re-
ceive is more likely to be appropriate for creating an English profes-
sor. A math major may well want to be an actuary, but will not learn
actuarial science at Yale. He will learn to be a potential mathematics
professor. And, worst of all, in my own field of computer science, the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023842
