How to Teach the Twelve Cognitive Processes 177

So, upon reaching school age, a child can do some of the cognitive
processes. Now the question is, How to we teach him to get better at
them?

First let’s see what the cognitive processes fundamentally have in
common. This will give us a way of thinking about how to teach them.

The first and most important thing they have in common is that
they all rely on a case base. We have all engaged in each of these
processes many times and we have a range of experiences we can call
upon to guide us the next time we find ourselves doing them. Each
process relies on a story base as well. We can tell stories about inter-
esting experiences we have had in doing each one of them. Stories
usually revolve around failures, or at least unexpected results, since
without these there are no good Stories to tell. Engaging in any cogni-
tive process includes the possibility of making a mistake during the
process. We expect to get smarter each time as a result of any mistakes
we make. This is what cognitive processes are like. We learn cognitive
processes through experience and we index the failures we have so
that we can find them again and perhaps avoid making the same mis-
take. When we avoid an error that we know we have made previously,
we say that we have learned.

It follows, therefore, that acquiring a case base, learning the sto-
ries of others and learning to tell our own stories, and learning classic
mistakes and being able to analyze behavior to find a mistake are all
aspects of learning the cognitive processes.

Acquiring the case base and consciously analyzing the cases in
that case base, then, is the fundamental issue in teaching the cogni-
tive processes.

HOW TO TEACH PREDICTION

We live in a physical world but we also live in a social world. Children
need to understand that if they drop something heavy on their foot,
it will hurt; they also need to know that if they do something mean
to someone, the person may dislike them for it and may seek revenge.
We use predictions to figure out what will happen as a result of our
actions and then we use that knowledge to guide us in our future

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023857
