12.7 Possible Benefits of Closely Linking AGIs to the Global Brain 231

1. Analogously to language learning, an AGI system may receive ethical training from a wide
variety of humans in parallel, e.g. via controlling characters in wide-access virtual worlds,
and gaining feedback and guidance regarding the ethics of the behaviors demonstrated by
these characters

2. Internet-based information systems may be used to explicitly gather information regarding
human values and goals, which may then be appropriately utilized as input for an AGI
system’s top-level goals

The second point begins to make abstract-sounding notions like Coherent Extrapolated Volition
and Coherent Aggregated Volition, mentioned above, seem more practical and concrete. It’s
interesting to think about gathering information about individuals’ values via brain imaging,
once that technology exists; but at present, one could make a fair stab at such a task via
much more prosaic methods, such as asking people questions, assessing their ethical reactions
to various real-world and hypothetical scenarios, and possibly engaging them in structured
interactions aimed specifically at eliciting collectively acceptable value systems (the subject of
the next item on our list). It seems to us that this sort of approach could realize CAV in an
interesting way, and also encapsulate some of the ideas underlying CAV.

There is an interesting resonance here with recent thinking in the area of open source
governance [Wik11]. Similar software tools (and associated psychocultural patterns) to those
being developed to help with open source development and choice of political policies (see
http://metagovernment.org) may be useful for gathering value data aimed at shaping
AGI goal system content.

12.7.1 The Importance of Fostering Deep, Consensus- Building
Interactions Between People with Divergent Views

Two potentially problematic issues arising with the notion of using Global Brain related tech-
nologies to form a coherent volition from the divergent views of various human beings are:

e the tendency of the Internet to encourage people to interact mainly with others who share
their own narrow views and interests, rather than a more diverse body of people with widely
divergent views. The 300 people in the world who want to communicate using predicate
logic (see http: //lojban.org) can find each other, and obscure musical virtuosos from
around the world can find an audience, and researchers in obscure domains can share papers
without needing to wait years for paper journal publication, etc.

e the tendency of many contemporary Internet technologies to reduce interaction to a very
simplistic level (e.g. 140 character tweets, brief Facebook wall posts), the tendency of in-
formation overload to cause careful reading to be replaced by quick skimming, and other
related trends, which mean that deep sharing of perspectives by individuals with widely
divergent views is not necessarily encouraged. As a somewhat extreme example, many of
the YouTube pages displaying rock music videos are currently littered with comments by
haters asserting that rock music is inferior to classical or jazz or whatever their prefer-
ence is — obviously this is a far cry from deep and productive sharing between people with
different tastes and backgrounds.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013147
