230 12 The Engineering and Development of Ethics

would be afforded the same rights as its previous human incarnation. However, if AGIs were to
be considered second class citizens and deprived of free will, why would it be any better or safer
to do so for a human that has been uploaded? It would not, and indeed, an uploaded human
mind not having evolved in a purely digital environment may be much more prone to erratic
and dangerous behavior than an AGI. An upload without verifiable continuity of consciousness
would be no different than an AGI. It would merely be some sentience in a machine, one that was
“programmed” in an unusual way, but which has no particular claim to any special humanness
— merely an alternate encoding of some subset of human knowledge and independent volitional
behavior, which is exactly what first generation AGIs will have.

The problem of continuity of consciousness in uploading is very similar to the problem of the
Turing test: it assumes specialness on the part of biological humans, and requires acceptability
to their particular theory of mind in order to be considered sentient. Should consciousness (or
at. least the less mystical sounding intelligence, independent volition, and self-awareness) be
achieved in AGIs or uploads in a manner that is not acceptable to human theory of mind,
it may not be considered sapient and worthy of any of the ethical treatment afforded sapient
entities. This can occur not only in “strange consciousness” cases in which we can’t perceive that
there is some intelligence and volition; even if such an entity is able to communicate with us in
a comprehensible manner and carry out actions in the real world, our innately wired theory of
mind may still reject it as not sufficiently like us to be worthy of consideration. Such an attitude
could turn out to be a grave mistake, and should be guarded against as we progress towards
these possibilities.

12.7 Possible Benefits of Closely Linking AGIs to the Global Brain

Some futurist thinkers, such as Francis Heylighen, believe that engineering AGI systems is at
best a peripheral endeavor in the development of novel intelligence on Earth, because the real
story is the developing Global Brain [Iley07, Goe01] — the composite, self-organizing informa-
tion system comprising humans, computers, data stores, the Internet, mobile phones and what
have you. Our own views are less extreme in this regard — we believe that AGI systems will dis-
play capabilities fundamentally different from those achievable via Global Brain style dynamics,
and that ultimately (unless such development is restricted) self-improving AGI systems will de-
velop intelligence vastly greater than any system possessing humans as a significant component.
However, we do respect the power of the Global Brain, and we suspect that the early stages of
development of an AGI system may go quite differently if it is tightly connected to the Global
Brain, via making rich and diverse use of Internet information resources and communication
with diverse humans for diverse purposes.

The potential for Global Brain integration to bring intelligence enhancement to AGIs is
obvious. The ability to invoke Web searches across documents and databases can greatly en-
hance an AGI’s cognitive ability, as well as the capability to consult GIS systems and various
specialized software programs offered as Web services. We have previously reviewed the poten-
tial for embodied language learning achievable via using AGIs to power non-player characters
in widely-accessible virtual worlds or massive multiplayer online games [Goe08]. But there is
also a powerful potential benefit for AGI ethical development, which has not previously been
highlighted.

This potential benefit has two aspects:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013146
