could, the dots in a lattice, one by one, from the computer screen, by clicking on
each point with a mouse. In some experiments, after removal, the dot reappeared in
fifty milliseconds, in the “fast return condition”, or after one-second delay in the
“slow return condition.” Unbeknown to the subject, the path made by the motions of
their mouse on the computer screen over time while removing dots were
reconstructed as a path on a fine to coarse grained box-partitioned behavioral
manifold. Entropic indices of the rate of expansion of the possible, number of new
boxes entered, reflecting H; , and the relative occupancy of the partition of the
possible, reflecting Hy, the distribution of probabilities with respect to the boxes,
could then be computed. For examples, Selz found that the spatial and temporal
patterns of computer mouse motions made in this dot search and destroy task
correlated highly with the subjects’ age, sex and personality types as defined by
profiles from the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory, MMPI, and the
Structured Clinical Interview, SCI, associated with the standard Diagnostic and
Statistical Manual, DSM IV. She found that subjects whose personalities were like

my high self-sensibility girlfriends demonstrated high indices of both Hrand Hy.

The actions of nonintegrable nonlinear differential equations, not solvable by
the usual techniques of integration, can be transformed into graphical images by
plotting their orbits in abstract phase spaces with the three physically measurable
coordinates of location x (or some other temporarily fixed value), velocity y (the rate
of change in the location or measured value) and z acceleration (the rate of change
of the rate of change in location or value) in x, y, z space. Graphical representations
of the system in action in phase space can serve in place of analytic solutions to the
equations. This idea was one of Henri Poincare’s major contributions to
mathematics and physics, and has come to be the centerpiece of the qualitative
theory of differential equations. The often point-to-point unpredictable but globally
and qualitatively characteristic geometric shapes of the orbital patterns in abstract
phase space are the objects of interest. There are visualizable representations such
as cycles as circles and statistical measures made on these objects such as the Hy
and Hy entropies and the in-betweenness (neither maximal nor minimal) of their

difference.

81

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013581
