But whatever the caveats about the bonds, the potential for improving the government’s performance is
obviously huge. That’s true in education, health care, criminal justice and many other areas.

A recent review found that 10 major social programs had been rigorously evaluated over the past two decades,
using the scientific gold standard of random assignment. Only one of the 10 — Early Head Start, for infants,
toddlers pregnant women — was a clear success. Yet all 10 still exist, and largely in their original form.

Jon Baron, the president of the Coalition for Evidence-Based Policy in Washington, points out that the social
problems addressed by antipoverty programs have not gotten much better in years. School test scores have
barely changed. College graduation rates for low-income students have stagnated. The poverty rate is as high as
it was in 1981. Median household income is lower than it was in 1998.

“If we just keep funding social programs the way we have been,” Mr. Baron says, “there’s not a lot of reason to
think we'll have much success.”

The Obama administration’s seven pilot programs would create bonds for, among other areas, job training,
education, juvenile justice and care of children’s disabilities. Nonprofit groups like Social Finance could apply.
So could for-profit companies, said the White House official, who asked not to be named because the president
had not yet released next year’s budget. The $100 million for the bonds would come out of the budgets of other
programs, to stay consistent with Mr. Obama’s announced freeze on non-security spending.

Officials in Massachusetts and New York are looking at similar ideas but have not yet decided whether they
will issue bonds.

Beyond the impact of any single program, the bonds have the potential to nudge all government agencies to pay
more attention to results. Mr. Obama, after all, campaigned as a reformer who wanted to create a sleek, efficient
“iPod government.” He has had some success, like the expansion of a program — backed by years of solid
evidence — in which nurses go to the homes of new at-risk parents to counsel them.

Over all, though, the administration has not done enough to improve government efficiency. Put it this way: If
someone asked you how Mr. Obama had made government work better, would you have an answer?

Making government work better will be all the more important in the years ahead. The free market is not going
to solve many of our biggest problems, be it stagnant pay or spotty medical care. And government — in
Washington and locally — is going to be financially squeezed for a long time.

There never was a good excuse for wasting billions of taxpayer dollars on programs that didn’t work. But now,
especially, there’s no excuse.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030325
