1 1
four boxes of M; are occupied, the Mz; = rf indicates that all four kinds of

transitions are possible. Since we remain in the context of a 0,1, two state system,
the growth rate of the possible equals the logarithm, base two, of the sum of the
entries in the boxes of the left-top-row to right-bottom-row diagonal called the trace
and Hr = log (1 + 1) = log2(2) = 1. Consistent with intuition, since every transition is
possible, the topological entropy of M; as indicated in its M;; is maximal (= 1).
Another expression equal to the sum of the trace (the sum of the upper left to lower
right diagonal) in a square matrix, is its leading eigenva/ue, most often symbolized
with a lambda, 41. The logarithm of the leading eigenvalue of the transition
incidence matrix is equal to its topological entropy. Symbolically, Hz (Mz) = logz (A1 )
= log2 (2) = 1. Standard elementary linear algebra texts describe how to compute
eigenvalues, these relations and related operations as well as their foundational
theorems.

Before computing the entropy of the distribution of probabilities among the

possibles as the metric entropy, Hy, let us notice again that the occupancies in the

1 3
four entry boxes of the transition matrix M; are not uniform, M; = 3 9° This leads

naturally to the intuition that for this series of binary transitions, Hy, in contrast with
Hy, will not be maximal, i.e. not equal to 1 and the nonuniformity of H; and Hy is a
computational expression of what we mean by a state of in-between entropy. These
entropies are identical and their difference = O for transitions reflecting maximal
entropy, as might be realized in a very long series of fair coin flips in which the
entropies = 1. Entropy will be minimal when flipping a two headed coin, here the
entropies = 0. More compactly, the non-uniform probabilistic, metric entropy,
differing from the maximal topological entropy indicates that the system is in a
dynamical state of in-between entropy, written as H7 - Hy + 0.

In the computation of the metric entropy, Hy, the M; is transformed into a
transition probability matrix, M;p, called a Markov matrix named for one of the two
great Russian mathematicians, both students of Pafnuti Lvovich Chebyshev, the

Markov brothers. The entries of each row in the MM; are transformed into transition

108

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013608
