namely the size in words of the article and the number of page views which it obtains. The article word
count is created by directly accessing the article using its URL. The traffic statistics for Wikipedia articles
are obtained from http://stats.grok.se/.
Figure S10a displays the number of records parsed from Wikipedia and retained for the final cohort
analysis. Table S7 displays specific examples from the extraction‟s output, including name, year of birth,
year of death, approximate word count of main article and traffic statistics for March 2010.
1) Create a database of records referring to people born 1800-1980 in Wikipedia.
a. Using the DBPedia framework, find all articles which are members of the categories
„1700_births‟ through „1980_births‟. Only people both in 1800-1980 are used for the
purposes of fame analysis. People born in 1700-1799 are used to identify naming
ambiguities as described in section III.7.A.7 of this Supplementary Material.
b. For all these articles, create a record identified by the article URL, and append the birth
year.
c. For every record, use the URL to navigate to the online Wikipedia page. Within the main
article body text, remove all HTML markup tags and perform a word count. Append this
word count to the record.
d. For every record, use the URL to determine the page‟s traffic statistics for the month of
March 2010. Append the number of views to the record.
III.7.A.2 – Identification of occupation for individuals appearing in Wikipedia.
Two types of structural elements within Wikipedia enable us to identify, for certain individuals, their
occupation. The first, Wikipedia Categories, was previously described and used to recognize articles
about people. Wikipedia Categories also contain information pertaining to occupation. The categories
“Physicists”, “Physicists by Nationality”, “Physicists stubs”, along with their subcategories, pinpoint articles
of relating to the occupation of physicist. The second are Wikipedia Lists, special pages dedicated to
listing Wikipedia articles which fit a precise subject. For physicists, relevant examples are “List of
physicists”, “List of plasma physicists” and “List of theoretical physicists”. Given their redundancy, these
two structural elements, when used in combination provide a strong means of identifying the occupation
of an individual.
Next, we selected the top 50 individuals in each category, and annotated each one manually as a function
of the individual‟s main occupation, as determined by reading the associated Wikipedia article. For
instance, “Che Guevara” was listed in Biologists; so even though he was a medical doctor by training, this
is not his primary historical contribution. The most famous individuals of each category born between
1800 and 1920 are given in Appendix.
In our database of individuals, we append, when available, information about the occupations of people.
This enables the comparison, on the basis of fame, of groups of individuals distinguished by their
occupational decisions.
20
2) Associate Wikipedia records of individuals with occupations using relevant Wikipedia
“Categories” and “Lists” pages. For every occupation to be investigated :
a. Manually create a list of Wikipedia categories and lists associated with this defined
occupation.
b. Using the DBPedia framework, find all the Wikipedia articles which are members of the
chosen Wikipedia categories.
c. Using the online Wikipedia website, find all Wikipedia articles which are listed in the body
of the chosen Wikipedia lists.
d. Intersect the set of all articles belonging to the relevant Lists and Categories with the set
of people both 1800-1980. For people in both sets, append the occupation information.
e. Associate the records of these articles with the occupation.
III.7.A.3 - Extraction of individuals appearing in Encyclopedia Britannica.
Encyclopedia Britannica is a hand-curated, high quality encyclopedic dataset with many detailed
biographical entries. We obtained, in a private communication, structured datasets from Encyclopedia
Britannica Inc. These datasets contain a complete record of all entries relating to individuals in the
Encyclopedia Britannica. Each record contains the birth and death of the person at hand, as well as set of
information snippets summarizing the most critical biographical information available within the
encyclopedia.
For the analysis of fame, we extract, from the dataset provided by Encyclopedia Britannica Inc.,
records of individuals born in between 1800 and 1980. For every person, we retain, as a measure of their
notability, a count of the number of biographical snippets present in the dataset. Figure S10b outlines the
number of records parsed from the Encyclopedia Britannica dataset, as well as the number of these
records ultimately retained for final analysis. Table S8 displays examples of records parsed in this step of
the analysis procedure.
3) Create a database of records referring to people born 1800-1980 in Encyclopedia
Britannica.
a. Using the internal database records provided by Encyclopedia Britannica Inc., find all
entries referring to individuals born 1700-1980. Only people both in 1800-1980 are used
for the purposes of fame analysis. People born in 1700-1799 are used to identify naming
ambiguities as described in section III.7.A.7 of this Supplementary Material.
b. For these entries, create a record identified by a unique integer containing the individual‟s
full name, as listed in the encyclopedia, and the individual‟s birth year.
c. For every record, find the number of encyclopedic informational snippets present in the
Encyclopedia Britannica dataset. Append this count to the record.
III.7.A.4 – Produce spelling variants of the full names of individuals.
We ultimately wish to identify the most relevant name used to commonly refer to an individual. Given the
limits of OCR and the specificities of the method used to create the word frequency database, certain
typographic elements such as accents, hyphens or quotation marks can complicate this process. As
such, for every full name present in our database of people, we append variants of the full names where
these typographic elements have been removed or, when possible, replaced. Table S9 presents
examples of spelling variants for multiple names.
21
4) In both databases, for every record, create a set of raw names variants. To create the set:
a. Include the original raw name.
b. If the name includes apostrophes or quotation marks, include a variant where these
elements are removed.
c. If the first word in the name contains a hyphen, include a name where this hyphen is
replaced with a whitespace.
d. If the last word of the name is a numeral, include a name where this numeral has been
removed.
e. For every element in the set which contains non-Latin characters, include a variant where
this characters have been replaced using the closest Latin equivalent.
III.7.A.5 – Find possible names used to refer to individuals.
The common name of an individual sometimes significantly differs from the complete, formal name
present in Encyclopedia Britannica and Wikipedia. This encyclopedia full name can contain details such
as titles, initials and military or nobility standings, which are not commonly used when referring to
individual in most publications. Even in simpler cases, when the full name contains only first, middle and
last names, there exists no systematic convention on which names to use when talking about an
individual. Henry David Thoreau is most commonly referred to by his full name, not “Henry Thoreau” nor
“David Thoreau”, whereas Oliver Joseph Lodge is mentioned by his first and last name “Oliver Lodge”,
not his full name “Oliver Joseph Lodge”.
Given a full name with complex structure potentially containing details such as titles, initials, nobility rights
and ranks, in addition to multiple first and last names, we must extract a list of simple names, using three
words at most, which can potentially be used to refer to this individual. This set of names is created by
generating combinations of names found in the raw name. Furthermore, whenever they appear we
systematically exclude common words such as titles or ranks from these names. The query name sets of
several individuals are displayed in Table S10.
5) For every record, using the set of raw names, create a set of query names. Query names
are (2,3) grams which will be used in order to measure the fame of the individual. The following
procedure is iterated on every raw name variant associated with the record. Steps for which the
record type is not specified are carried out for both.
a. For Encyclopedia Britannica records, truncate the raw name at the second comma,
reorder so that the part of name preceding the first comma follows that succeeding the
comma.
b. For Wikipedia records, replace the underscores with whitespaces.
c. Truncate the name string at the first (if any) parenthesis or comma.
d. Truncate the name string at the beginning of the words „in‟, ‟In‟, ‟the‟, ‟The‟, ‟of‟ and „Of‟, if
these are present.
e. Create the last name set. Iterating from last to first in the words of the name, add the first
name with the following properties:
i. Begin with a capitalized letter.
ii. Longer than 1 character.
iii. Not ending in a period.
iv. If the words preceding this last name are identified as a prefix ('von', 'de', 'van',
'der', 'de' , „d'‟, 'al-', 'la', 'da', 'the', 'le', 'du', 'bin', 'y', 'ibn' and their capitalized
versions ), the last name is a 2gram containing both the prefix.
f. If the last name contains a capitalized character besides the first one, add a variant of
this word where the only capital letter is the first to the set of last names.
g. Create the set of first names. Iterating on the raw name elements which are not part of
the last name set, candidate first names are words with the following properties :
i. Begin with a capital letter.
ii. Longer than 1 character.
iii. Not ending in a period.
iv. Not a title. („Archduke‟, 'Saint', 'Emperor', 'Empress', 'Mademoiselle', 'Mother',
'Brother', 'Sister', 'Father', 'Mr', 'Mrs', 'Marshall', 'Justice', 'Cardinal', 'Archbishop',
'Senator', 'President', 'Colonel', 'General', 'Admiral', 'Sir', 'Lady', 'Prince',
'Princess', 'King', 'Queen', 'de', 'Baron', 'Baroness', 'Grand', 'Duchess', 'Duke',
'Lord', 'Count', 'Countess', 'Dr')
22
h. Add to the set of query names all pairs of “first names + last names” produced by
combining the sets of first and last names.
i. This procedure is carried for every raw name variant.
III.7.A.6 – Find the word match frequencies of all names.
Given the set of names which may refer to an individual, we wish to find the time resolved words
frequencies of these names. The frequency of the name, which corresponds to a measure of how often
an individual is mentioned, provides a metric for the fame of that person. We append the word
frequencies of all the names which can potentially refer to an individual. This enables us, in a later step,
to identify which name is the relevant.
6) Append the fame signal for each query name of each record. The fame signal is the
timeseries of normalized word matches in the complete English database.
III.7.A.7 – Find ambiguous names which can refer to multiple individuals.
Certain names are particularly popular and are shared by multiple people. This results in ambiguity, as
the same query name may refer to a plurality of individuals. Homonimity conflicts occur between a group
of individuals when they share some part of, or all, their name. When these homonimity conflicts arise,
the word frequency of a specific name may not reflect the number of references to a unique person, but to
that of an entire group. As such, the word frequency does not constitute a clear means of tracking the
fame of the concerned individuals. We identify homonimity conflicts by finding instances of individuals
whose names contain complete or partial matches. These conflicts are, when possible, resolved on the
basis of the importance of the conflicted individuals in the following step. Typical homonimity conflicts are
shown in Table S11.
7) Identify homonimity conflicts. Homonimity conflicts arise when the query names of two or more
individuals contain a substring match. These conflicts are distinguished as such :
a. For every query name of every record, find the set of substrings of query names.
b. For every query name of every record, search for matches in the set of query name
substrings of all other records.
c. Bidirectional homonimity conflicts occur when a query name fully matches another query
name. The name conflicted name could be used to refer to both individuals.
Unidirectional conflicts occur when a query name has a substring match within another
query name. Thus, the conflicted name can refer to one of the individuals, but also be
part of a name referring to another.
III.7.A.8 – Resolve, when possible, the most likely origin of ambiguous names.
The problem of homonymous individuals is limiting because the word frequencies data do not allow us to
resolve the true identity behind a homonymous name. Nonetheless, in some cases, it is possible to
distinguish conflicted individuals on the basis of their importance. For the database of people extracted
from Encyclopedia Britannica, we argue that the quantity of information available about an individual
provides a proxy for their relevance. Likewise, for people obtained from Wikipedia, we can judge their
importance by the size of the article written about the person and the quantity of traffic the article
generates. As such, we approach the problem of ambiguous names by comparing the notability of
individuals, as evaluated by the amount of information available about them in the respective
encyclopedic source. Examples of conflict resolution are shown in Table S12 and S13.
8) Resolve homonimity conflicts.
23
a. Conflict resolution involves the decision of whether a query name, associated with
multiple records, can unambiguously refer to a single one of them.
b. Wikipedia. Conflict resolution for Wikipedia records is carried out on the basis the main
article word count and traffic statistics. A conflict is resolved as such :
i. Find the cumulative word count of words written in the articles in conflict.
ii. Find the cumulative number of views resulting from the traffic to the articles in
conflict.
iii. For every record in the conflict, find the fraction of words and views resulting from
this record by dividing by the cumulative counts.
iv. Does a record have the largest fraction of both words written and page views?
v. Does this record have above 66% of either words written and page views?
vi. If so, the conflicted query name can be considered as being sufficiently specific
to the record with these properties.
c. Encyclopedia Britannica. Conflict resolution for Encyclopedia Britannica records is carried
on the basis of the quantity of information snippets present in the dataset.
i. Find the cumulative number of information snippets related to the records in
conflicts.
ii. For every record in the conflict, find the fraction of informational snippets by
dividing with the cumulative count
iii. If a record has greater than 66% of the cumulative total, the query name in
conflict is considered to refer to this record.
III.7.A.9 Identify the most relevant name used to refer to an individual.
So far, we have obtained, for all individuals in both our databases, a set of names by which they can
plausibly be mentioned. From this set, we wish to identify the best such candidate and use its word
frequency to observe the fame of the person at hand. This optimal name is identified on the basis of the
amplitude of the word frequency, the potential ambiguities which arise from name homonimity and the
quality of the word frequency time series. Examples are shown in Fig S11 and S12.
9) Determine the best query name for every record.
a. Order all the query names associated with a record on the basis of the integral of the
fame signal from the year of birth until the year 2000.
b. Iterating from the strongest fame signal to the lowest, the selected query name is the first
result with the following properties :
i. Unambiguously refers to the record (as determined by conflict resolution, if
needed).
ii. The average fame signal in the window [year of birth ± 10 years] is less than 10 -9
or an order of magnitude less than the average fame signal from the year of birth
to the year 2000.
iii. (Wikipedia Only). The query name, when converted to a Wikipedia URL by
replacing whitespaces with underscores, refers to the record or an inexistent
article. If the name refers to another article or a disambiguation page, the query
name is rejected.
c. If the best query name is a 2-gram name corresponding the last two names in 3-gram
query name, and if the fame integral of the 3-gram name is 80% of the fame integral of
the 2-gram, the best query name is replaced by the 3-gram.
24
III.7.A.10 – Compare the fame of multiple individuals.
Having identified the best name candidate for every individual, we use the word frequency time series of
this name as a metric for the fame of the each individual. We now compare the fame of multiple
individuals on the basis of the properties of their fame signal. For this analysis, we group people
according to specific characteristics, which in the context of this work are the years of birth and the
respective occupations.
10) Assemble cohorts on the basis of a shared record property.
a. Fetch all records which match a specific record property, such as year of birth or
occupation.
b. Create fame cohorts comparing the fame of individuals born in the same year.
i. Use average lifetime fame ranking, done on the basis of the average fame as
computed from the birth of the individual to the year 2000.
c. Create fame cohorts for individuals with the same occupation.
i. Use most famous 20 th year, ranking on the basis of the 20 th best year in the
terms of fame for the individual.
III.7B. Cohorts of fame
For each year, we defined a cohort of the top 50 most famous individuals born that year. Individual fame
was measured in this case by the average frequency over all years after one's birth. We can compute
cohorts on the basis of names from Wikipedia, or Encyclopedia Britannica. In Figure 5, we used cohorts
computed with names from Wikipedia.
At each time point, we defined the frequency of the cohort as the median value of the frequencies of all
individuals in the cohort.
For each cohort, we define:
(1) Age of initial celebrity. This is the first age when the cohort's frequency is greater than 10-9. This
corresponds to the point at which the median individual in the cohort enter the English lexicon as
defined in the first section of the paper.
(2) Age of peak celebrity. This is the first age when the cohort's frequency is greater than 95% of its peak
value. This definition is meant to diminish the noise that exists on the exact position of the peak value of
the cohort's frequency.
(3) Doubling time of fame. We compute the exponential rate at which fame increases between the 'age of
fame' and the 'age of peak fame'. To do so, we fit an exponential to the timeseries with the methods of
least squares. The doubling time is derived from the estimated exponent.
(4) Half-life of fame. We compute the exponential rate at which fame decreases past the year at which it
reaches its peak (which is later than the age of peak celebrity as defined above). To do so, we fit an
exponential to the timeseries with the methods of least squares. The half-life is derived from the
estimated exponent.
We show the way these parameters change with the cohort‟s year of birth in Figure S13.
The dynamics of these quantities is sensibly the same when using cohorts from Wikipedia or from
Encyclopedia Britannica. However, Britannica features fewer individuals in their cohorts, and therefore the
cohorts from the early 19 th century are much noisier. We show in Figure S14 the fame analysis
conducted with cohorts from Britannica, restricting our analysis to the years 1840-1950.
In Figure 5E, we analyze the trade-offs between early celebrity and overall fame as a function of
occupation. For each occupation, we select the top 25 most famous individuals born between 1800 and
1920. For each occupation, we define the contour within which all points are close to at least 2 member of
the cohort (it is the contour of the density map created by the cohort).
25
People leave more behind them than a name. Like her fictional protagonist Victor Frankenstein, Mary
Shelley is survived by her creation: Frankenstein took on a life of his own within our collective imagination
(Figure S15). Such legacies, and all the many other ways in which people achieve cultural immortality,
fall beyond the scope of this initial examination.
III.8. History of Technology
A list of inventions from 1800-1960 was taken from Wikipedia (Ref S10).
The year listed is used in our analysis. Where multiple listings of a particular invention appear, the year
retained in the list is the one reported in the main Wikipedia article for the invention. (e.g. Microwave
Oven is listed in 1945 and 1946; the main article lists 1945 as the year of invention, and this is the year
we use in our analyses).
Each entry's main Wikipedia page was checked for alternate terms for the invention. Where alternate
names were listed in the main article (e.g. thiamine or thiamin or vitamin B 1 ), all the terms were
compared for their presence in the database. Where there was no single dominant term (e.g.MSG or
monosodium glutamate) the invention was eliminated from the list. If a name other than the originally
listed one appears to be dominant, the dominant name was used in the analysis (e.g.
electroencephalograph and EEG - EEG is used).
Inventions were grouped into 40-year intervals (1800-1840, 1840-1880, 1880-1920, and 1920-1960), and
the median percentages of peak frequency was calculated for each bin for each year following invention:
these were plotted in Fig 4B, together with examples of individual inventions in inset.
Our study of the history of technology suffers from a possible sampling bias: it is possible that some older
inventions, which peaked shortly after their invention, are by now forgotten and not listed in the Wikipedia
article at all. This sampling bias would be more extreme for the earlier cohorts, and would therefore tend
to exaggerate the lag between invention date and cultural impact in the older invention cohorts. We have
verified that our inventions are past their peaks, in all three cohorts (Fig S16). Future analyses would
benefit from the use of historical invention lists to control for this effect.
Another possible bias is that observing inventions later after they were invented leaves more room for the
fame of these inventions to rise. To ensure that the effect we observe is not biased in this way, we
reproduce the analysis done in the paper using constant time intervals: a hundred years from time of
invention. Because we have a narrower timespan, we consider only technologies invented in the 19 th
century; and we group them in only two cohorts. The effect is consistent with that observed in the main
text (Fig S16).
III.9. Censorship
III.9A. Comparing the influence of censorship and propaganda on
various groups
To create panel E of Fig 6, we analyzed a series of cohorts; for each cohort, we display the mean of the
normalized probability mass functions of the cohort, as described in section 1B. We multiplied the result
by 100 in order to represent the probability mass functions more intuitively, as a percentage of lifetime
26
fame. People whose names did not appear in the cohorts for the time periods in question (1925-1933,
1933-1945, and 1955-1965) were eliminated from the analysis.
The cohorts we generated were based on four major sources, and their content is given in Appendix.
1) The Hermann lists
The lists of the infamous librarian Wolfgang Hermann were originally published in a librarianship journal
and later in Boersenblatt, a publishing industry magazine in Germany. They are reproduced in Ref S11. A
digital version is available on the German-language version of Wikipedia (Ref S12). We considered
digitizing Ref S10 by hand to ensure accuracy, but felt that both OCR and manual entry would be timeconsuming
and error prone. Consequently, we began with the list available on Wikipedia and hired a
manual annotator to compare this list with the version appearing in Ref S11 to ensure the accuracy of the
resulting list. The annotator did not have access to our data and made these decisions purely on the
basis of the text of Ref S11. The following changes were made:
Literature
1) “Fjodor Panfjorow” was changed to “Fjodor Panferov”.
2) “Nelly Sachs” was deleted.
History
1) “Hegemann W. Ellwald, Fr. v.” was changed to “W. Hegemann” and “Fr. Von Hellwald”
Art
4) “Paul Stefan” was deleted.
Philosophy/Religion
1) “Max Nitsche” was deleted.
The results of this manual correction process were used as our lists for Politics, Literature, Literary
History, History, Art-related Writers, and Philosophy/Religion.
27
2) The Berlin list
The lists of Hermann continued to be expanded by the Nazi regime. We also analyzed a version from
1938 (Ref S13). This version was digitized by the City of Berlin to mark the 75 th year after the book
burnings in 2008 (Ref S14). The list of authors appearing on the website occasionally included multiple
authors on a single line, or errors in which the author field did not actually contain the name of a person
who wrote the text. These were corrected by hand to create an initial list.
We noted that many authors were listed only using a last name and a first initial. Our manual annotator
attempted to determine the full name of any such author. The results were far from comprehensive, but
did lead us to expand the dataset somewhat; names with only first initials were replaced by the full name
wherever possible.
Some authors were listed using a pseudonym, and on several occasions our manual annotator was able
to determine the real name of the author who used a given pseudonym. In this case, the real name was
added to the list.
In addition, we occasionally included multiple spelling variants for a single author. Because of this, and
because an author‟s real name and pseudonym may both be included on the list, the number of author
names on the list very slightly exceeds the number of individuals being examined. The numbers reported
in the figure are the number of names on the list.
It is worth pointing out that Adolf Hitler appears as an author of one of the banned books from 1938. This
is due to a French version of Mein Kampf, together with commentary, which was banned by the Nazi
authorities. Although it is extremely peculiar to find Hitler on a list of banned authors, we did not remove
Hitler‟s name, as we had no basis for doing so from the standpoint of the technical authorship and name
criteria described above: Adolf Hitler is indeed listed as the author of a book that was banned by the Nazi
regime. This is consistent with our stance throughout the paper, which is that we avoided making
judgments ourselves that could bias the outcome of our results. Instead, we relied strictly upon our
secondary sources. Because Adolf Hitler is only one of many names, the list as a whole nevertheless
exhibits strong evidence of suppression, especially because the measure we retained (median usage) is
robust to such outliers.
3) Degenerate artists
The list of degenerate artists was taken directly from the catalog of a recent exhibition at the Los Angeles
County Museum of Art which endeavored to reconstruct the original „Degenerate Art‟ exhibition (Ref S15).
4) People with recorded ties to Nazis
The list of Nazi party members was generated in a manner consistent with the occupation categories in
section 7. We included the following Wikipedia categories: Nazis_from_outside_Germany, Nazi_leaders,
SS_officers, Holocaust_perpetrators, Officials_of_Nazi_Germany, Nazis_convicted_of_war_crimes,
together with all of their subcategories, with the exception of Nazis_from_outside_Germany. In addition,
the three categories German_Nazi_politicians, Nazi_physicians, Nazis were included without their
respective subcategories.
III.9B. De Novo Identification of Censored and Suppressed Individuals
We began with the list of 56,500 people, comprising the 500 most famous individuals born in each year
from 1800 – 1913. This list was derived from the analysis of all biographies in Wikipedia described in
section 7. We removed all individuals whose mean frequency in the German language corpus was less
than 5 x 10 -9 during the period from 1925 – 1933; because their frequency is low, a statistical assessment
of the effect of censorship and suppression on these individuals is more susceptible to noise.
The suppression index is computed for the remaining individuals using an observed/expected measure.
The expected fame for a given year is computed by taking the mean frequency of the individual in the
German language from 1925-1933, and the mean frequency of the individual from 1955-1965. These two
values are assigned to 1929 and 1960, respectively; linear interpolation is then performed in order to
compute an expected fame value in 1939. This expected value is compared to the observed mean
frequency in the German language during the period from 1933-1945. The ratio of these two numbers is
the suppression index s. The complete list of names and suppression indices is included as supplemental
data. The distribution of s was plotted for using a logarithmic binning strategy, with 100 bins between 10 -2
and 10 2 . Three specific individuals who received scores indicating suppression in German are indicated
on the plot by arrows (Walter Gropius, Pablo Picasso, and Hermann Maas).
As a point of comparison, the entire analysis was repeated for English; these results are shown on the
plot.
III.9C. Validation by an expert annotator
We wanted to see whether the findings of this high-throughput, quantitative approach were consistent
with the conclusions of an expert annotator using traditional, qualitative methods. We created a list of 100
individuals at the extremes of our distribution, including the names of the fifty people with the largest s
value and of the fifty people with the smallest s value. We hired a guide at Yad Vashem with advanced
degrees in German and Jewish literature to manually annotate these 100 names based on her
assessment of which people were suppressed by the Nazis (S), which people would have benefited from
the Nazi regime (B), and lastly, which people would not obviously be affected in either direction (N). All
100 names were presented to the annotator in a single, alphabetized list; the annotator did not have
access to any of our methods, data, or conclusions. Thus the annotator‟s assessment is wholly
independent of our own.
28
The annotator assigned 36 names to the S category and 27 names to the B category; the remaining 37
were given the ambiguous N classification. Of the names assigned to the S category by the human
annotator, 29 had been annotated as suppressed by our algorithm, and 7 as elevated, so the
correspondence between the annotator and our algorithm was 81%. Of the names assigned to the B
category, 25 were annotated as elevated by our algorithm, and only 2 as suppressed, so the
correspondence was 93%.
Taken together, the conclusions of a scholarly annotator researching one name at a time closely matched
those of our automated approach. These findings confirm that our computational method provides an
effective strategy for rapidly identifying likely victims of censorship given a large pool of possibilities.
III.10. Epidemics
Disease epidemics have a significant impact on the surrounding culture (Fig. S18 A-C). It was recently
shown that during seasonal influenza epidemics, users of Google are more likely to engage in influenzarelated
searches, and that this signature of influenza epidemics corresponds well with the results of CDC
surveillance (Ref S16). We therefore reasoned that culturomic approaches might be used to track
historical epidemics. These could help complement historical medical records, which are often woefully
incomplete.
We examined timelines for 4 diseases: influenza (main text), cholera, HIV, and poliomyelitis. In the case
of influenza, peaks in cultural interest showed excellent correspondence with known historical epidemics
(the Russian Flu of 1890, leading to 1M deaths, the Spanish Flu of 1918, leading to 20-100M deaths; and
the Asian Flu of 1957, leading to 1.5M deaths). Similar results were observed for cholera and HIV.
However, results for polio were mixed. The US epidemic of 1916 is clearly observed, but the 1951-55
epidemic is harder to pinpoint: the observed peak is much broader, starting in the 30s and ending in the
60s. This is likely due to increased interest in polio following the election of Franklin Delano Roosevelt in
1932, as well as the development and deployment of Salk‟s polio vaccine in 1952 and Sabin‟s oral
version in 1962. These confounding factors highlight the challenge of interpreting timelines of cultural
interest: interest may increase in response to an epidemic, but it may also respond to a stricken celebrity
or a famous cure.
The dates of important historical epidemics were derived from the Cambridge World History of Human
Diseases (1993) 3 rd Edition.
For cholera, we retained the time periods which most affected the Western world, according to this
resource:
- 1830-35 (Second Cholera Epidemic)
- 1848-52, and 1854 (Third Cholera Epidemic)
- 1866-74 (Fourth Cholera Epidemic)
- 1883-1887 (Fifth Cholera Epidemic)
The first, sixth and seventh cholera epidemics appear not to have caused significant casualties in the
Western world.
29
Supplementary References
“Quantitative analysis of culture using millions of digitized books”,
Michel et al.
S1. L. Taycher, “Books of the world stand up and be counted”,
2010. http://booksearch.blogspot.com/2010/08/books-of-world-stand-up-and-becounted.html
S2. Ray Smith, Daria Antonova, and Dar-Shyang Lee, Adapting the Tesseract
open source OCR engine for multilingual OCR, Proceedings of the
International Conference on Multilingual OCR, Barcelona Spain, 2009,
http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/1577802.1577804
S3. Popat, Ashok. A panlingual anomalous text detector. DocEng '09: Proceedings
of the 9th ACM symposium on Document Engineering, 2009, pp. 201-204.
S4. Brants, Thorsten and Franz, Alex. Web 1T 5-gram Version 1. LDC2006T13
http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/Catalog/CatalogEntry.jsp?catalogId=LDC2006T13
S5. Dean, Jeffrey and Ghemawat, Sanjay. MapReduce: Simplified Data Processing
on Large Clusters. OSDI '04 p137--150
S6. Lyman, Peter and Hal R. Varian, How Much Information, 2003.
http://www2.sims.berkeley.edu/research/projects/how-much-info-
2003/print.htm#books
S7. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_treaties.
S8. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geographical_renaming]
S9. Christian Bizer, Jens Lehmann, Georgi Kobilarov, Sören Auer, Christian Becker,
Richard Cyganiak, Sebastian Hellmann.” DBpedia – A Crystallization Point for
the Web of Data.” Journal of Web Semantics: Science, Services and Agents on
the World Wide Web, 2009, pp. 154–165.
S10. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timeline_of_historic_inventions
S11. Gerhard Sauder: Die Bücherverbrennung.10. Mai 1933. Ullstein Verlag, Berlin,
Wien 1985.
S12. http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liste_der_verbrannten_Bücher_1933.
S13. Liste Des Schädlichen Und Unerwünschten Schrifttums: Stand Vom 31. Dez.
1938. Leipzig: Hedrich, 1938. Print.
S14. http://www.berlin.de/rubrik/hauptstadt/verbannte_buecher/az-autor.php
S15. Barron, Stephanie, and Peter W. Guenther. Degenerate Art: the Fate of the
Avant-garde in Nazi Germany. Los Angeles, CA: Los Angeles County Museum
of Art, 1991. Print.
S16. Ginsberg, Jeremy, Matthew H. Mohebbi, Rajan S. Patel, Lynnette Brammer,
Mark S. Smolinski, and Larry Brilliant. Detecting Influenza Epidemics Using
Search Engine Query Data. Nature 457 (2008): 1012-014.
Supplementary Figures
“Quantitative analysis of culture using millions of digitized books”,
Michel et al.
Figure S1
Fig. S1. Schematic of stereo scanning for Google Books.
Figure S2
Fig. S2. Example of a page scanned before (left) and after processing (right).
Figure S3
Fig. S3. Outline of n-gram corpus construction. The numbering corresponds to sections of the text.
Figure S4
Fig. S4. Fraction of English Books with a given OCR quality.
Figure S5
Fig. S5. Known events exhibit sharp peaks at date of occurrence. We select groups of events that occur
at known dates, and produce the corresponding timeseries. We normalize each timeserie relative to its
total frequency, center the timeseries around the relevant event, and plot the mean. (A) A list of 124
treaties. (B) A list of 43 head of state (US presidents, UK monarchs), centered around the year when they
were elected president or became king/queen. (C) A list of 28 country name changes, centered around
the year of name change. Together, these form positive controls about timeseries in the corpus.
Figure S6
Fig. S6. Frequency distribution of words in the dictionary. We compute the frequency in our year 2000
lexicon for all 116,156 words (1-grams) in the AHD (year 2000). We represent the percentage of these
words whose frequency is smaller than the value on the x-axis (logarithmic scale, base 10). 90% of all
words in AHD are more frequent than 1 part per billion (10 -9 ), but only 75% are more frequent than 1
part per 100 million (10 -8 ).
Figure S7
Fig. S7. Lexical trends excluding proper nouns. We compute the number of words that are 1-grams in
the categories “P”, “B” and “R”. The same upward trend starting in 1950 is observed. The size of the
lexicon in the year 2000 is still larger than the OED or W3.
Figure S8
Fig. S8. Example of grammatical change. Irregular verbs are used as a model of grammatical evolution.
For each verb, we plot the usage frequency of its irregular form in red (for instance, ‘found’), and the
usage frequency of its regular past-tense form in blue (for instance, ‘finded’). Virtually all irregular verbs
are found from time to time used in a regular form, but those used more often tend to be used in a
regular way more rarely. This is illustrated in the top two rows with the frequently-used verb “find” and
the less often encountered “dwell”. In the third row, the trajectory of “thrive” is one of many ways by
which regularization occurs. The bottom two panels shows that the regularization of “spill” happened
earlier in the US than in the UK.
Figure S9
Fig. S9. We forget. Events of importance provoke a peak of discussion shortly after they happened, but
interest in them quickly decreases.
Figure S10
Fig. S10. Biographical Records. The number of records parsed from the two encyclopedic sources (blue
curve), and used in our analyses (green curve). See steps 7.A.1 to 7.A.10 above.
Figure S11
Fig. S11. Selection of query name. The chosen query name is in black. (A) Adrien Albert Marie de Mun.
Strongest and optimal query name is Albert de Mun, (B) Oliver Joseph Lodge, strongest and optimal
query name is Oliver Lodge, (C) Henry David Thoreau. Strongest query name is David Thoreau, but is a
substring match of Henry David Thoreau, with fame >80% of David Thoreau. Optimal query name is
Henry David Thoreau. (D) Mary Tyler Moore. Strongest name is Mary Moore, but is rejected because of
noise. Next strongest is Tyler Moor, but this is a substring match of Mary Tyler Moore, with fame >80%
of Tyler Moore. Optimal query name is thus Mary Tyler Moore.
Figure S12
Fig. S12. Filtering out names with trajectories that cannot be resolved. Illustrates the requirement for
query name filtration on the basis of premature fame. Fame a birth is the average fame in a 10 year
window around birth, lifetime fame is the average fame from year of birth to 2000. The dashed line in
(A), (D) indicates the separatrix used to excluded query names with premature fame signals. Points to
the right were rejected from further analysis. In (B), (C), (E), (F) the black line indicates the year of birth
of the individuals whose fame trajectories are plotted.
Figure S13
Fig. S13. Values of the four parameters of fame as a function of time. ‘Age of peak celebrity’ (75 years
old) has been fairly consistent. Celebrities are noticed earlier, and become more famous than ever
before: ‘Age of initial celebrity’ has dropped from 43 to 29 years, and ‘Doubling time’ has dropped from
8.1 to 3.3 years. But they are forgotten sooner as well: the half-life has declined from 120 years to 71.
Figure S14
Fig. S14. Fundamental parameters of fame do not depend on the underlying source of people studied.
We represent the analysis of fame using individuals from Encyclopedia Britannica.
Figure S15
Fig. S15. Many routes to Immortality. People leave more behind them than their name: ‘Mary Shelley’
(blue) created the monstrously famous ‘Frankenstein’ (green).
Figure S16
Fig. S16. Controls. (A) We observe over the same timespan (100 years) two cohorts invented at different
times. Again, the more recent cohort reaches 25% of its peak faster. (B) We verify that inventions have
already reached their peak. We calculate the peak of each invention, and plot the distribution of these
peaks as a function of year, grouping them along the same cohorts as used in the text. In each case, the
distribution falls within the bounds of the period observed (1800-2000).
Figure S17
Fig. S17. Suppression of authors on the Art and Literary History blacklists in German. We plot the
median trajectory (as in the main text) of authors in the Herman lists for Art (green) and Literary History
(red), and for authors found in the 1938 blacklist (blue). The Nazi regime (1933-1945) is highlighted, and
corresponds to strong drops in the trajectories of these authors.
Figure S18
Fig. S18. Tracking historical epidemics using their influence on the surrounding culture. (A) Usage
frequency of various diseases: ‘fever’ (blue), ‘cancer’ (green), ‘asthma’ (red), ‘tuberculosis’ (cyan),
‘diabetes’ (purple), ‘obesity’ (yellow) and ‘heart attack’ (black). (B) Cultural prevalence of AIDS and HIV.
We highlight the year 1983 when the viral agent was discovered. (C) Usage of the term ‘cholera’ peaks
during the cholera epidemics that affected Europe and the US (blue shading). (D) Usage of the term
‘infantile paralysis’ (blue) exhibits one peak during the 1916 polio epidemic (blue shading), and a second
around the time of a series of polio epidemics that took place during the early 1950s. But the second
peak is anomalously broad. Discussion of polio during that time may have been fueled by the election of
‘Franklin Delano Roosevelt’ (green), who had been paralyzed by polio in 1936 (green shading), as well as
by the development of the ‘polio vaccine’ (red) in 1952. The vaccine ultimately eradicated ‘infantile
paralysis’ in the United States.
Figure S19
Fig. S19. Culturomic ‘timelines’ reveal how often a word or phrase appears in books over time. (A) ‘civil
rights’, ‘women’s rights’, ‘children’s rights’ and ‘animals rights’ are shown. (B) ‘genocide’ (blue), ‘the
Holocaust’ (green), and ‘ethnic cleansing’ (red) (C) Ideology: ideas about ‘capitalism’ (blue) and
‘communism’ (green) became extremely important during the 20 th century. The latter peaked during the
1950s and 1960s, but is now decreasing. Sadly, ‘terrorism’ (red) has been on the rise. (D) Climate
change: Awareness of ‘global temperature’, ‘atmospheric CO2’, and ‘sea levels’ is increasing. (E) ‘aspirin’
(blue), ‘penicillin’ (green), ‘antibiotics’ (red), and ‘quinine’ (cyan). (F) ‘germs’ (blue), ‘hygiene’ (green)
and ‘sterilization’ (red). (G) The history of economics: ‘banking’ (blue) is an old concept which was of
central concern during ‘the depression’ (red). Afterwards, a new economic vocabulary arose to
supplement the older ideas. New concepts such as ‘recession’ (cyan), ‘GDP’ (purple), and ‘the economy’
(green) entered everyday discourse. (H) We illustrate geographical name changes: ‘Upper Volta’ (blue)
and ‘Burkina Faso’ (green). (I) ‘radio’ in the US (blue) and in the UK (red) have distinct trajectories. (J)
‘football’ (blue), ‘golf’ (green), ‘baseball’ (red), ‘basketball’ (cyan) and ‘hockey’ (purple) (K) Sportsmen: In
the 1980s, the fame of ‘Michael Jordan’ (cyan) leaped over other that of other great athletes, including
‘Jesse Owens’ (green), ‘Joe Namath’ (red), ‘Mike Tyson’ (purple), and ‘Wayne Gretsky’ (yellow).
Presently, only ‘Babe Ruth’ (blue) can compete. One can only speculate as to whether Jordan’s hang
time will match that of the Bambino. (L) ‘humorless’ is a word that rose to popularity during the first half
of the century. This indicates how these data can serve to identify words that are a marker of a specific
period in time.
