like wendy dolman or her quality is paramount. two accountants two bookeepers and two office 
admins. . alan and zoe will handle trusts and grats. heatehr diana george will be incolved in art partnership. if 
you want brad, analysts etc. and kids to do investments I have little to add in that regard ,except to be able to 
account for things properly. I suggest that the kids must have skin in any deal. 
Alternatively , we can continue to focus on fun and let someone else do the things that you want done. and 
you and I can kibbitz about it all. structures outcomes risk, museums. charity, ( joslins answer by the way 
was I had asked how much charity was leon planining to give this year , ( the 2 m ) he didnt include your 
foundation or the payment to me, or from debra and you??!! 
Date: Mon, Nov 30, 2015 at 11:21 AM 
Subject: agenda 
To: Melanie Spinella - 
1 fees, amount and to what entities when and responsiblitis. 2. gagosian idea to save a minimum of 10 
mill and maybe more. 3. i can walk you through carlyns screw up, 50 % would have made little difference 
and maybe made it worse. 4. we should have an all hands meeting with your family to talk about art 
distribution on death. . 5. phaidon, decantings ( already firmly in progress ) loans. ( alan ) pent. ( with 
follow up ) all part of same elegant transaction, 6 asymetric risk worth at least 50- 60 no matter how you 
calculate. I can explain. 7 lets get the money issue out of the way once and for all. I have my team set to 
start. 
Date: Fri, Feb 20, 2015 at 5:52 AM 
Subject: 
To: Melanie Spinella 
1) pg 1 A unequal shares . pg 23 removal of trustees absolute. dont be confused with abiltiy to set up 
seperate trusts„ 2) I am reachable this afternoon in europe. on cell. 3. on another note. -our financial 
agreement ended months ago . seperate from the art partnership (which i was told yesterday to my 
amazement is still not funded) . i am obligated to complete ? the time i have dedicated since oct/ dec has 
been spent mainly as your friend. tom, brad though i am fully cognizant of my responsiblities. I will try to 
help find people. I am not good at human resources. howevr If I don;t think they are good enough for you. I 
will continue to say so , and you obviously decide. but I will reiterrate even in the face of your nobody is 
good enough argument. keeping foremost in my mind that you and I have only beeen shown a very tiny 
handful of people. 4. I find the friction over fees , counterproductive, in an attempt to avoid it I had 
suggested a multi year deal early on. you rejected it. I then suggested, and urged you to have an option at a 
fixed fee , you also rejected that .you wanted the fee payment only at the end I argued but ,conceded. I 
suggested a structure that tom didn't like, you rejected it. 5 I suggest you make a fair proposal.- that i can 
either accept or reject. some payment up front this time is a requirement. I am willing to modify any outstanding 
obligations. - there are creative ways to assure you of your desired characterization of those payments. 6 you 
should open accts at Deutsh. and goldman. I am told that eilleen has set up over one hundred bank acccts for 
you???!!. few relevant 7 you should immediatly demand a list of all her acct authorites , exec poistions 
. director etc. bank authorizsations. etc. talk later or over the weekend if you like 
Date: Tue, Jan 5, 2016 at 9:32 PM 
Subject: 
To: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com> 
Mark was here this morning , the proposed transactions are extremely complex . and would take a great deal 
of detailed time. I do not know how, and if ,to move forward - our last transaction. a transaction which you 
saved 600 million in tax. even if 20 years away, ( i hope longer) even discounted is a 300 million 
savings . for that you ignored our agreements , verbal written and emailed -and decided that it was only 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023338 
worth 8 million dollars. ( assuming phaidon srichard happens. 24 m savings not including artspace and debt 
benefits certain to come later ) FYI the phaidon transaction cannot happen as currently comtemplated IT 
will not work . NOT 
When we had our meeting in your home in Bedford. You asked me for my help. I told you multiple times 
that i thought it was a very bad idea, in that I preferred to have no financial interactions. I dont have many 
friends and didnt want money in any way to interfere with our unique relationship. Reminder, For five years 
you had the kind but goofy Eileen Alexandersson as the sole manager of your accounting, legal, investments. 
reporting, trusts etc. When I first told you in no uncertain terms that I firmly believed she was incompetent you 
admonished me for speaking out of both sides of my mouth . With regard Brad Wechsler, there has never 
been a  both sides. . I have consistantly maintained since day one that he was highly unsuited for the 
job. When you initially asked me to help convince him to take the role , promising him a position to manage 
mirage investments I sent you a note saying that instead of hiring him you should pay up and get first class 
people. I have reiterated the same message for over a year now. . Brad, not me ,was tasked with hiring new 
people , according to his org chart.(nauseating ) and as you wanted him to take ownership of the staff,he 
conducted many interviews alone. . you may recall that as late as may, you told him in my presence that 
though six months had passed he had not hired anyone. since then I have rectified errors in sales tax, use 
tax, income tax, fbar reporting, 1031 reporting, 8 million of deductions missed errors of millions on the 
returns. ,( april ) Oversight on new grats- first at 22 and then at 19 that were done without my consultation and 
needed to be resolved soley as a result of my last minute intervention. . 600 million in after tax savings was 
just accomplished, though you left the 30 million outstanding that I had said should only be done if that was 
my additional fee. not used for non biz purposes and not art. 
in June and then again Sept, we both agreed to a 50% of phaidon payout first projected at 20 . but less when 
artspace and debt taken out, - then only after weeks, when you delayed any detailed discussion of money 
wanting to give the issue a thoughtful response ( which I fully understand ) . you unilaterally changed our 
agreement. . 5m would be reserved for the future ? . and out of the remaining 15m,? i would receive only a 
third. ( note : I'm confident that both the debt, and the art space investment will also lead to a write- off of 
another 30 m. plus ) In my dining room ,you were surprised when I said that i require most people to pay 
their advisory fee up front so that I am assured that I will be properly compensated for my work when 
strategies are implemented. you may recall that you appeared offended and said  are you suggesting that i 
would go back on my word I said no , of course not! you are my closest of friends ,but my experience is 
that when amounts get large, people tend to get unhappy when it actually comes time for them to pay. 
I include below the email i sent to you on April 15, the day i was examining your returns It laid out my 
understanding of the compensation agreed for a transaction of the magnitude to the penny of the one just 
completed.ie 600m When it appeared that the transcation would and could go foward I was the first to point 
out that our agreement would cost you too much money, therefore 
From day one I proposed to discount our agreement to a 50 - 60 million range. An extremely fair price for 
all the transactions just completed. including Phaidon. - I was never told that this was out of range. in 
fact, alternative methods of payment. ie my plane, or an -in-kind payment were discussed ( 
ie including keeping the 30m portion of the fee outstanding till March ) ,I provided, only because you 
specifically requested a detailed step by step execution plan and reviewed all documents that i was given 
access to. ( Phaidon was never forthcoming ) in order to make my many corrections. ( as i said more needed 
on phaidon ) . I was then told that Alans involvement warranted a discount. Even in the best of light , 
though it is beyond question that not one time in the three years of his retainer has he ever proposed a 
unique idea. (including any way to deal with the use issue on debras death ,or even the most basic review of 
your largest asset by far , the BRH agreement. ) O.K. - lets say he made a contribution to the plan and stretch 
reality beyond the pale and say it was 50 %. though no one could posit such a large amount unless they were 
wearing a clown suit. , the payment and our formula of 37 percent associated with the deal was known . It 
had both sent in writing and spoken about on the phone numerous times, a detailed execution plan was 
provided. then and only then, after the entire transaction was laid out for the group to follow You told 
me that after a number of conversations with brad karp that a total of only 20m would be paid, (and even that 
was more than you originally contemplated ) for both transactions . Leon I feel It was remarkably unfair. Did 
brad even knew of our prior agreements.? ?, I would ask that you I and Brad karp sit together if you think it 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023339 
would be helpful. . I would like to send him this email, with your consent of course. If the transactions were 
never consummated, i would not be owed a dime, however , the expected fee was known up front. , the 
detailed step by step plan was followed and overseen by me, the amount that I had requested before the 
transaction had even begun, had already been heavily discounted, out of friendship, . I believe the decision re 
only paying 20 m has frankly, left me felling quite uneasy. and colors the view about the Athene or 
Rothschild transaction. 
Date: Sun, Mar 20, 2016 at 11:17 PM 
Subject: 
To: Melanie Spinella 
glad to see you are personally on the mend - as well as the fence. -- As you know i dread money 
discussions with you-- however -we should address the issue of what you would like to do moving forward. re-
do family office, accounting trusts , estate and apollo agreements . Along with your  payment  last year 
we agreed. no further obligations on each side. yes, i continued to moan. I realize that though I ve done 
quite a lot this year already , it is not your responsibility. . As you often like to remind me- you've paid a 
great deal of money to date. that being said - If you want my involvement moving foward, I suggest 
you pay my regular 1 fee of 40 m. 20 now. 20 on completion or as per the invoice issues at the end of last 
year pay 30 all at once. - 
To help out . im keenly aware of your current cash position. so I will consider an in-kind payment - real 
estate ( Miami )„art , financing of my new plane (allows you to spread over years or of course the preferred 
cash. Get rid of Castrucci,it is over a year since the same story of findign the right guy at the top. you 
entire accounting needs to be re done. , office downsized, reporting re done. meetings to recitify, categlorize 
, the various docs re appollo, rowen, suydam, alan etc. Brad can direct investment guys, ( hopefully) my 
people will be in your office for a few months . reorganizing IF you decide not to pay I fully understand, as I 
m sure you will re my no longer spending any serious time on these things. 
Of course re any non financial issues, I am always there for you and will continue to be the best friend I can 
be 
Steve jobs said that everyday he woke up , and asked himself, if he knew he was going to die tomorow , would 
he do the same thing that he had planned for the day- he wanted to check that he was doing things that he 
really wanted to. after three days of getting back an answer of no, he would change what he was going to do. . 
he also did not believe in LONG term plans. I dont think either one of us will figure out what we want to do 
long term so my thinking is that we should try to have fun everyday, and welcome serendipity. 
I think another trust and estate lawyer should be brought in to deal with the issues of how not to allow your 
family to get screwed by your partners on death. Alan, for years told me that paul weiss had drawn the 
docs so no issue but when recently pushed by my new fire drill he asked akin to draft.?! PLease ask brad 
about why he keeps talking about flow. I dont know what he means, its so silly. . this is only about money 
control and protection. 
I am leaving monday night now. free to speak in the afternoon 
Date: Tue, Apr 12, 2016 at 11:49 AM 
Subject: 
To: Melanie Spinella 
use tax questions. ? california question state returns? as you know wendy did not play a role here. . her 
involvment moving foward would help alot. . sign your gift tax return today if possible . I will be 
finished tomorw with this year. crazy on april 13th. !! . last minute to say the least. . brad told you the tra 
can be separated with approvals, which should be simple. . alan alwys just says no , . unless he is asked , well 
what if we amend what is there. . moving foward , i ask you to decide if you want me and my team involved 
or not. . I want to be weaned. I agree the past, apart from phaidon and artspace. this year of course is done. 
. for me to allow bad reporting to negaitvely impact you, by keeping joslin, would be irresponsible on my 
part. . letting him do harm, or stopping him and having to listen to his leaving is my fault. is awkward. . I 
will call at 3 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023340 
Date: Tue, Feb 9, 2016 at 7:56 PM 
Subject: Fwd: 
To: Melanie SpineIla 
this was sent four months ago, nothing has changed 
sent oct 15. before big transaction. 
Office, - ada goes. , hire heather a paralegal. Joslin goes or is closely managed by new cfo with tax 
experience. . castrucii goes asap.as he merely adds to mess.( too many people, ex 7 people or more to pay a 
bill ) eva goes. outsource as much as possible. . bookkeeping systems built from scratch, airplane 
restructure, boat. same, new grats. phaidon sale , decide on artspace survivability, regan,. do the kids really 
want these? , children accounting ie bens house.etc. re do estate for new facts. redo loans, trading accounts 
activity, . gaming -foreign- disclosures. . BRH TRA re thinks. household and construction 
architects. . redone. art partnership , choice of paintings. . re do structure of consultants. tax re family 
office. . decide if investments are a realistic option in the next three years.. insurance, operations. airplane, 
etc. . art foundation , private. max charity contributions, financial reports. still waiting. ? on line 
banking, . tax planning, family office deductions ( profit center ) . airplane certificate, redone jet aviation 
redo. . paper gigi ( E )trust to avoid gift tax.. 
Date: Tue, Nov 15, 2016 at 6:13 AM 
Subject: Fwd: 
To: Melanie Spinella 
Leon, Congragulations on biting the bullet. at least 18 months late , but I m encouraged and glad for 
you. When you interviewed Brad two years ago you asked that i not tell him what a disaster lay before 
him. what would you like me to tell Barry? 
There is a HUGE amount of work to be done in the next 9 -12 months. mostly the exact same work that i 
outlined in my email of 2 years ago. now complicated by years of mess on top. ( you can send it again if you 
like ) . Brad wechsler was never up to the task. sorry, I realize I have been saying the very same thing for a 
long time. he was a not a step up from Eileen but a step sideways. in the beginning there was Eileen and 
Tom and Ralph Lerner. all your hand picks. then brad. john, Joe. . joslin was chosen from a pool of 2 
people. each that would be limited by a salary of 250k. ( yes i personally augmented his comp in order to get 
him ) I did say hire both Lisa to do the bookkeeping and joslin tax, He complained for over a year, re his 
direction by eileen and ada, and then brad. His breakdown was not a surprise after months and moths of 
warnings. Though disabled, he ran your office this year. with john and joe. He ran amok, and as i told 
you he rarely failed to remind me in our conversations that you told him that he works for you and not for 
me and that brad needs to pays him . 
. Asking me who to hire , estate attny tax people etc. : 
I have taken heat for years over the fact that i gave you no more than carlyns name, . no follow up 
questions no interactions , not even one single question asked of me re her work. ( that was Eileen ) but 
somehow carlyns fuck up was my doing. . when i told you that i thought Eileen wasn't up to the task, you 
bellowed that i was talking out of both sides of my mouth. . You told me this year , that by trying to protect 
you from crazy joslin, I had in essence fired him and it was my responsibility to do his work. it then turns out 
that he didn't consider himself fired at all he just received less money. and continued to make a really 
dangerous mess. . Joshn castrucci, in your eyes, was also my doing , though email after email said, I take no 
responsibility for him,and iYOU SHOULD NOT HIRE HIM .!!! „ your response was that was my opinion 
was only because i didn't trust him. then to add insult to injury last jan you told me he was gone. however he 
too is still there, and a waste of money and space. 
My time is complicated by Donald's potentially eviscerating any reason for anyone to use the foreign 
funds repatriation plan that i had put together. . however as you are aware I have some decisions to make re 
my time allocation in the next year or two. so at least for a few weeks I am unable to commit much time and 
make any future plans to guide you in the redoing of your procrastination produced mess. 
That being said, the tasks at hand are the following. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023341 
You have a bomb of colored string that your retarded children have formed , It has to be very carefully 
unwound , even the substitution of Barry for your next trustee, needs a careful focus on procedure.s It would 
be much preferable if Wechsler was not his replacement. do you have any person you trust ??! . I am 
concerned re brad taking barrys place re )(XXX. In the beginning Barry will need to find and learn 
ACCURATE . org charts. books , balance sheets. trust valuations, are all a part. Barry will need 2 months 
to just get his arm around what is there, this is before any needed modifications., 
a way overdue re- fresh of your estate plan. . clats , trust. partnerships. grats. Ilcs. bank accounts, filing 
requirements. etc. the long awaited review of the brh tra and shareholders agreement to see how they fit into 
new plan. .  planning. art partnership engagement.. , airplane re-do. , buying another. . ? boat 
sale , Miami sale. . TRADING ACCOUNTS. . three years over due. . an accounting system. fire john 
.. joslin stays for a year. or so. so does tom and. except for heather everyone should be replaced with 
new. . Sell Artspace and shut down regan arts. . rationalize, cash flow reporting. cash mgmt. stock 
sales. sec irs. gaming. foreign reporting. the 8865 mess will take months to review now. . you 
CANNOT file unreviewed audited documents. . CANNOT!!! this will be very detailed work. . a self 
inflicted wound - all avoidable if professionals had been in place to limit. or contain it. . . you will need 
3 new hires .a s there is no one in your office that is truly an A player. I have great hope in Barry as you 
know. He will need to be trained. note 
; One year is my guesstimate After 4 years of telling you , that you could do better than Halperin,: im glad 
that you now are willing to follow barrys advice . I take no offense, in fact I take comfort in the fact that after 
only one conversation with Barry you are now convinced to make that change . will take a year or more. 
I expect as a friend you will understand that 
I will no longer, not even for one day , work on your affairs . without the compensation that is long 
overdue. . your unilateral idea of after care , not imposed on any other professional , except me, not paul 
weiss ,( caesars alone , a direct screw up on their part ) tom, akin„ no one. needs to end. . you and I had 
previously agreed no more of that, and this after you decided not to pay me per our agreement. to be fair I can 
not say im surprised as you have email after email , stating that , if you save a great deal of money, you 
wont want to pay, so limit it to 40m per year. - water under the bridge 
If I can find the time to work, on your project , which is not by any means certain as I have said, I hope 
you understand that it now will have to be under my standard terms and conditions. and well documented so as 
to avoid any more of the he said she said. I never want to have any more uncomfortable money moments with 
you , I find it very distasteful. . so to be clear , my terms are as follows . I will only work for the usual 40 
million per year. It needs to be paid, 25 million upon signing an agreement. 5 million every 2 months 
thereafter for 6 months ie march may june . this can begin if i am able in January. I will immediately stop 
work, if the payment is not received. If you want me to work this year until Jan 15 , it will be 10 
million, paid upfront. after one year you will be left with a new estate plan a running office. staffed with 
professionals overseen by Barry. ( hallelujah ) a tax plan . and an investment that returns more than any 
painting you could possible own. . no agreement - no work. however - I of course will talk to Barry for the 
hour that i promised , and take your guidance as to what I should say. 
her the last two places. ? 
To: Melanie Spinella 
Leon please read the attached proposed response to the IRS , see if you can understand it !!!. lye asked for a 
re-do. and given prelimiary directions to Alan to have it edited over the weekend 
. If you are quarterbacking ,ok with me. just please let everyone know. you must deal with the outrageous 
incompetence in your family office.. Alans words  but I was told that.. , but I was told by the office (sic) 
that ... , BUT i was told by joslin,. , but I was told by.  why is leon blaming me for .. . I ve have always 
given you my best advice, If you reflect on your financial life, you have been kept safe , had remarkable 
results and no disasters. I have repeatedly urged you to get rid of the people in your office. , you 
have repeatedly chosen to ignore my advice , you told me last week that the emotional reason was in order 
to be weaned off my group and not have to pay my high fees. ( though ignoring the benefit of between 1.5 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023342 
and 2b to the better. ) . and no explosions. You have email after email ,where i remind you that I am not 
your bookkeeper or accountant ( in brads corporate speak his finance dept ??!!) that it should be redone .I 
have reviewed a multitude of the silly reports given to you and have pointed out the continued numerous 
inaccuracies . your question so what if the numbers are off, so what if the categories are off whats the big 
deal??. I suggest you de risk you finances and make the tough decisions necessary - pay the right amounts ( 
high) to get the work done properly or , you are, Im afraid, certain to get an unhappy answer.. tom will be 
back from vacation, this week. 
----------Forwarded message---------- 
From: Halperin, Alan S  _ _ 
Date: Thu, Apr 28, 2016 at 5:16 PM 
Subject: Valuation Discount 
To: jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> 
I am attaching a draft response from Empire Valuation as to why it arrived at a valuation discount on the low 
end. Let's discuss the response and next steps. Thanks. Alan 
Js Date: Tue, Feb 24, 2015 at 8:20 AM 
Subject: 
To: Melanie Spinella 
<111111= 
Leon, 
Yesterday, I again spent hours upon hours of my time with your office. ,( speak to brad to get flavor) and 
you and i will discuss the results in gory gruesome detail on Friday. it mirrored many other weeks spent doing 
the things that I don;t have the time to do. 
In order to keep things in perspective, maybe reviewing an analogy I have used before with you, might be 
helpful. You and your family are a 6 billion dollar corp. with an income between 250 -500 million dollars per 
year. It contains a few operating biz's , a large wide array of existing investments, in various categories, 
a desire to enter into others. A panoply of loans, notes. purchases, wide range of all types of taxes. , planes. 
boats homes. . trusts ,grats. a crazy number of bank accts. ( with no oversight ) . law firms, acct firms, 800 
page tax returns, foreign firms. art consultants. construction consultants bill payers, 
home mgmt.,vast multitude ofllc's , including foreign, and with all that you only have a combined overhead 
of less that 3 million dollars. 
I have previously sent you the very same note that i have enclosed again below ,this time with highlights 
. I wrote it to you over a year ago. As my acute disability ( selective memory) seems to have been raised 
as one of your concerns , as a rule I try to memorialize things in writing in an attempt to lay out issues that I 
fear may later turn out to be a problem. ie what i would and wouldn't do , - my responsibilities. etc and those 
things that are not. below you will find details of things that I thought needed to be done, so that you 
wouldn't find yourself in the very place where you currently find yourself however ,you chose to defer 
many of my suggestions- see below -,until only weeks ago. ! you chose to defer the jpm acct. the art 
partnership on and on - into this year. and though the 60- 50 40 timber emails all carried with it a clear warning 
that you needed to do something re personnel if it were to stabilize,- you chose to wait. 
ONE YEAR AGO 
Feb 17 2014 i wrote : 
With regard the more pressing issue I am uncertain of just how to proceed. I am torn, as my very strong 
inclination is not to be involved at all. It is extremely time consuming, delicate, fraught with many pitfall many 
that will make you very upset and a major pain in the ass. I wrote you months ago that the quality of the people 
involved need to be upgraded. ( lucky for me these last issues arose way before the beginning of my 
involvement ) I am also aware however of my overarching friendship obligations of ok, -given all the 
complexities who else can do it? problem. 
Your family office needs a daddy. children with good intentions are running around, sniping , nitpicking with 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023343 
little direction. As a stopgap measure I am suggesting , we put in Larry Delson to take charge Everyone would 
report to him. Eileen included. He would however work for me. this is not, by a long shot my first choice as I 
prefer only being responsible and standing behind my own personal work ( ie the word DONE will no longer 
be transmitted to reflect status stated by others ) 
With no commitment on my part whatsoever, to do it. So far as I have failed in my attempt in trying to 
think through the problem creatively. My organizations handling of the more complex issues I believe you 
might find very costly, very ! ( however many structures available some risk sharing, maybe risk caps ,etc ) but 
would require my teams doing the work , not yours. Ada should be only a trust, grat administrator, not sure 
what role you prefer for Eileen as you hired her initially to oversee investments. whether Rich your controller 
stays or not, is not urgent. having Tom report to a new person,- is. coordination with Suydam Kathy 
Gregory, I would suggest limiting to one person. The increasing public profile needs to be taken into 
consideration. 
TODAY 
With your acquiesence , Eileen did not report to Delson ( he acting as a conduit directly to me) , she 
continued to provide bad info to both you ( cash flows , stock accts, structures. sales Etc) and me. and each 
time with my many annoying calls to you made immediately afterwards that she was g.....y!! No one was 
hired to run YOUR office until two months ago , no one was even interviewed and even now , Brad, a very 
nice man, is not even full time,(crazy ) Hours upon hours of time need to be spent training him. and his new 
staff. Eileen followed your instructions, not mine, in fact she continued to ignore mine saying  but Leon 
said  or its on Leon's desk etc , You would become frustrated when i pointed out each instance, of her 
obfuscation. originally you were given the clear choice, but to save money ,you chose not to hire my team. I 
was hired to do the architecture, you kept your own team. with Eileen at the head. instructions were given by 
me„ detailed but ignored by her. ( except in the instances where I inserted myself and personally had to do the 
weeks of grunt work ),ex. jpm morgan acct still not in use? That being said, If you do the cold calculation 
,starting from where you were, to where you are currently . you have made a hell of a deal. -- negotiating 
down my original amount requested, calling upon our friendship and suggesting that the Carlyn mess was 
partially my fault. ( though in that specific example, I had never been asked to do more than merely provide 
you the name of the most highly recognized atty in the field, not consulted,nor even asked again for my 
guidance along the way. ). I accepted the discount as your friend. ( by the way „suggesting now, that your 
Tom is now that last word on tax characterization, frankly is a bit much,-). however - that is all in the past. 
In order to move forward 
I would ask that you realize that very unlike yours, My business is only comprised of my personal attention 
and my personal time . Time that I was forced to grossly overspend on your various issues last year. . As you 
are my very close friend I will not have you participate in a bidding process that I have decided i will 
have this year for my time. (hopefully a more fair way to allocate ) I would also ask that you keep in mind 
that though our deal expired months ago. (also keeping in mind , that your understanding of the final 
payment terms neither reflected the emails or my memory, we finished it up your way. ) I have answered every 
call Brad , joslin, Ada or you, have made . reviewed docs over and over/ until once again, I was 
forced to insert myself strongly as I thought it dangerous not to. I made serious dollar and time concessions 
last year.very serious I am wiling to continue to accommodate some of your concerns , but I am, under no 
circumstances , none, willing to spend my time for free. its not fair. After cleaning up Carlyn's mess , which 
was a few weeks and 30 million dollars . We were both highly aware of the dire circumstances in which you 
found yourself last year, and in fact due predominately to its seriousness, and those very circumstances I took 
extra care in our negotiations . (you had claimed I had you over a barrel, ( a horrible position to be in with my 
very close friend.), unfortunately I fear that if you are not cautious ,in the near future, another barrel will appear 
of your own design ) 
I heard you when you said you believed i had already been paid for the work that is now required. The art 
partnership has fully answered all your concerns and discharged all my obligations and more so. . ( 
FYI Carlyns art partnership that you referenced is similar in only its title. ) You will also recall that you 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023344 
required that my payments be at the end of my work not at the beginning as everyone else's .( my work was 
never to include hours upon hours of training your staff). I eventually agreed, this of course should 
make clear that the 2014 tax year that will close Oct 2015 is not covered by our past agreement at all. I 
pointed this very fact out to you when I initially proposed a multi year agreement right out of the box. you said 
you preferred not. As you said ,I have produced results to date, far in excess of even my own exalted opinion 
of my projections. I have devoted a monumental amount of my limited amount of time-- way, way in excess of 
our agreement. I will be fair, I am willing to roll in the amount still outstanding from last year if that helps .. 
However, As my best student , and my only one, you are now capable of doing most, if not all, of the 
required work yourself I can put my whiteboard away when you come to eat and just have fun, trade stories,. 
share moments ideas etc. . I am of course always available to guide you as a friend if you choose that route . 
always. It will take a great deal of your time , but you will not have to spend any more money on mine. 
We are scheduled to meet fri at 430 , I leave at 5 am sat morning. 
Date: Tue, Feb 24, 2015 at 8:20 AM 
Subject: 
To: Melanie Spinella 
Leon, 
Yesterday, I again spent hours upon hours of my time with your office. ,( speak to brad to get flavor) and 
you and i will discuss the results in gory gruesome detail on Friday. it mirrored many other weeks spent doing 
the things that I don;t have the time to do. 
In order to keep things in perspective, maybe reviewing an analogy I have used before with you, might be 
helpful. You and your family are a 6 billion dollar corp. with an income between 250 -500 million dollars per 
year. It contains a few operating biz's , a large wide array of existing investments, in various categories, 
a desire to enter into others. A panoply of loans, notes. purchases, wide range of all types of taxes. , planes. 
boats homes. . trusts ,grats. a crazy number of bank accts. ( with no oversight ) . law firms, acct firms, 800 
page tax returns, foreign firms. art consultants. construction consultants bill payers, 
home mgmt.,vast multitude ofllc's , including foreign, and with all that you only have a combined overhead 
of less that 3 million dollars. 
I have previously sent you the very same note that i have enclosed again below ,this time with highlights 
. I wrote it to you over a year ago. As my acute disability ( selective memory) seems to have been raised 
as one of your concerns , as a rule I try to memorialize things in writing in an attempt to lay out issues that I 
fear may later turn out to be a problem. ie what i would and wouldn't do , - my responsibilities. etc and those 
things that are not. below you will find details of things that I thought needed to be done, so that you 
wouldn't find yourself in the very place where you currently find yourself however ,you chose to defer 
many of my suggestions- see below -,until only weeks ago. ! you chose to defer the jpm acct. the art 
partnership on and on - into this year. and though the 60- 50 40 timber emails all carried with it a clear warning 
that you needed to do something re personnel if it were to stabilize,- you chose to wait. 
ONE YEAR AGO 
Feb 17 2014 i wrote : 
With regard the more pressing issue I am uncertain of just how to proceed. I am torn, as my very strong 
inclination is not to be involved at all. It is extremely time consuming, delicate, fraught with many pitfall many 
that will make you very upset and a major pain in the ass. I wrote you months ago that the quality of the people 
involved need to be upgraded. ( lucky for me these last issues arose way before the beginning of my 
involvement ) I am also aware however of my overarching friendship obligations of ok, -given all the 
complexities who else can do it? problem. 
Your family office needs a daddy. children with good intentions are running around, sniping , nitpicking with 
little direction. As a stopgap measure I am suggesting , we put in Larry Delson to take charge Everyone would 
report to him. Eileen included. He would however work for me. this is not, by a long shot my first choice as I 
prefer only being responsible and standing behind my own personal work ( ie the word DONE will no longer 
be transmitted to reflect status stated by others ) 
With no commitment on my part whatsoever, to do it. So far as I have failed in my attempt in trying to 
think through the problem creatively. My organizations handling of the more complex issues I believe you 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023345 
might find very costly, very ! ( however many structures available some risk sharing, maybe risk caps ,etc ) but 
would require my teams doing the work , not yours. Ada should be only a trust, grat administrator, not sure 
what role you prefer for Eileen as you hired her initially to oversee investments. whether Rich your controller 
stays or not, is not urgent. having Tom report to a new person,- is. coordination with Suydam Kathy 
Gregory, I would suggest limiting to one person. The increasing public profile needs to be taken into 
consideration. 
TODAY 
With your acquiesence , Eileen did not report to Delson ( he acting as a conduit directly to me) , she 
continued to provide bad info to both you ( cash flows , stock accts, structures. sales Etc) and me. and each 
time with my many annoying calls to you made immediately afterwards that she was g.....y!! No one was 
hired to run YOUR office until two months ago , no one was even interviewed and even now , Brad, a very 
nice man, is not even full time,(crazy ) Hours upon hours of time need to be spent training him. and his new 
staff. Eileen followed your instructions, not mine, in fact she continued to ignore mine saying  but Leon 
said  or its on Leon's desk etc , You would become frustrated when i pointed out each instance, of her 
obfuscation. originally you were given the clear choice, but to save money ,you chose not to hire my team. I 
was hired to do the architecture, you kept your own team. with Eileen at the head. instructions were given by 
me„ detailed but ignored by her. ( except in the instances where I inserted myself and personally had to do the 
weeks of grunt work ),ex. jpm morgan acct still not in use? That being said, If you do the cold calculation 
,starting from where you were, to where you are currently . you have made a hell of a deal. -- negotiating 
down my original amount requested, calling upon our friendship and suggesting that the Carlyn mess was 
partially my fault. ( though in that specific example, I had never been asked to do more than merely provide 
you the name of the most highly recognized atty in the field, not consulted,nor even asked again for my 
guidance along the way. ). I accepted the discount as your friend. ( by the way „suggesting now, that your 
Tom is now that last word on tax characterization, frankly is a bit much,-). however - that is all in the past. 
In order to move forward 
I would ask that you realize that very unlike yours, My business is only comprised of my personal attention 
and my personal time . Time that I was forced to grossly overspend on your various issues last year. . As you 
are my very close friend I will not have you participate in a bidding process that I have decided i will 
have this year for my time. (hopefully a more fair way to allocate ) I would also ask that you keep in mind 
that though our deal expired months ago. (also keeping in mind , that your understanding of the final 
payment terms neither reflected the emails or my memory, we finished it up your way. ) I have answered every 
call Brad , joslin, Ada or you, have made . reviewed docs over and over/ until once again, I was 
forced to insert myself strongly as I thought it dangerous not to. I made serious dollar and time concessions 
last year.very serious I am wiling to continue to accommodate some of your concerns , but I am, under no 
circumstances , none, willing to spend my time for free. its not fair. After cleaning up Carlyn's mess , which 
was a few weeks and 30 million dollars . We were both highly aware of the dire circumstances in which you 
found yourself last year, and in fact due predominately to its seriousness, and those very circumstances I took 
extra care in our negotiations . (you had claimed I had you over a barrel, ( a horrible position to be in with my 
very close friend.), unfortunately I fear that if you are not cautious ,in the near future, another barrel will appear 
of your own design ) 
I heard you when you said you believed i had already been paid for the work that is now required. The art 
partnership has fully answered all your concerns and discharged all my obligations and more so. . ( 
FYI Carlyns art partnership that you referenced is similar in only its title. ) You will also recall that you 
required that my payments be at the end of my work not at the beginning as everyone else's .( my work was 
never to include hours upon hours of training your staff). I eventually agreed, this of course should 
make clear that the 2014 tax year that will close Oct 2015 is not covered by our past agreement at all. I 
pointed this very fact out to you when I initially proposed a multi year agreement right out of the box. you said 
you preferred not. As you said ,I have produced results to date, far in excess of even my own exalted opinion 
of my projections. I have devoted a monumental amount of my limited amount of time-- way, way in excess of 
our agreement. I will be fair, I am willing to roll in the amount still outstanding from last year if that helps .. 
However, As my best student , and my only one, you are now capable of doing most, if not all, of the 
required work yourself I can put my whiteboard away when you come to eat and just have fun, trade stories,. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023346 
share moments ideas etc. . I am of course always available to guide you as a friend if you choose that route . 
always. It will take a great deal of your time , but you will not have to spend any more money on mine. 
We are scheduled to meet fri at 430 , I leave at 5 am sat morning. 
Date: Mon, Apr 21, 2014 at 11:39 AM 
Subject: trying to bridge the gap. 
To: Melanie Spinella_____________________________ 
you were at 30 30/ me at 60 40. . / proposal 50 /25 and in additon I would be allowed to recommend 15 
from directly from your own foundation. All payments to be made in addtion to currently owed. so $40 on 
april 25 , $30 june 15 ,and the alreadly owed $10 as planned on oct 15. I would direct the 15 charity in the 
next 12 months, and the last 25 to be paid on conclusion. 
leon 
10 am - Arrival at White Plains / Westchester Airport 
FBO and US customs is Jet Systems Aviation 
Adress: 85 Tower Road Hanger E, White Plains, NY, 10604 
Telephone 
Date: Wed, Mar 25, 2015 at 11:52 PM 
Subject: previously sent 
To: Melanie Spinella 
I heard you when you said you believed i had already been paid for the work that is now required. The art 
partnership has fully answered all your concerns and discharged all my obligations and more so. . ( 
FYI Carlyns art partnership that you referenced is similar in only its title. ) You will also recall that you 
required that my payments be at the end of my work not at the beginning as everyone else's .( my work was 
never to include hours upon hours of training your staff). I eventually agreed, this of course should 
make clear that the 2014 tax year that will close Oct 2015 is not covered by our past agreement at all. I 
pointed this very fact out to you when I initially proposed a multi year agreement right out of the box. you said 
you preferred not. As you said ,I have produced results to date, far in excess of even my own exalted opinion 
of my projections. I have devoted a monumental amount of my limited amount of time-- way, way in excess of 
our agreement. I will be fair, I am willing to roll in the amount still outstanding from last year if that helps .. 
However, As my best student , and my only one, you are now capable of doing most, if not all, of the 
required work yourself I can put my whiteboard away when you come to eat and just have fun, trade stories,. 
share moments ideas etc. . I am of course always available to guide you as a friend if you choose that route . 
always. It will take a great deal of your time , but you will not have to spend any more money on mine 
. We are scheduled to meet fri at 430 , I leave at 5 am sat morning.So there are no surprises 50m for the 
year. . or 30m for until 7/ 15. you can roll the balance for last year as a concession. half up front. no more all 
at the end. ive spoken to brad every day. more questions than answers. joslyn cannot be left unsupervised, his 
answers are knee jerk . eillenn told me this , that the other 
Date: Thu, Mar 26, 2015 at 12:07 AM 
Subject: 
To: Melanie Spinella 
H 
you need to build an entire office from scratch. no question that was never my obigation, - systems , personel. 
finance tax, bookeeping„office. complinace. investment, monitoring, banking loans coming due, review. gs 
jpm gs, . . plane boat houses construction, new will,. phaidon sale. you are no further ahead today than my 
nov memo layed out = no real candidates. etc.. Ill redo the art partnership under new restrictions of course at 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023347 
no charge, and review the work done by tom/ joslin. 
joslin you and I should sit. you won't like it. AT ALL> he is afraid of telling you the story, as he belives brad 
is your guy and does not want to get fired. ada still refusing to share income tax opinions based on privilege 
, not under control at all. ? ? joslin said that murphy is not the cfo, as you told me but the coo. and the cfo is 
the same guy that reported to andrew, mistakes after mistakes not picked up by murphy who joslin described 
as a kind buffoon . he suggested a new ceo or coo who can make decisions. someone with some financail 
experience, he asked for a chief decision maker. 50 for year roll in money owed. 30 till july, most up front 
needed 
Date: Tue, Mar 31, 2015 at 3:25 PM 
Subject: 
To: Melanie Spinella 
Nov of 13 : I told you tom Eileen and Ralph were not up to the job, you disagreed very vocally 
and strongly,  Ralph wrote the book, Tom has been doing it for 15 years and Eileen ran the trading desk at 
Morgan Stanley.  Ada who had been working on all your documents for years while at the bank had 
been brought in- house but created more issues that didn't exist. and phaidon was its own animal 
Dec 13. you were again annoyed that i said that they needed to be replaced and said i was talking out of both 
sides of my mouth. first time ( email available) 
Jan 14, you decided that no third year was necessary for my help. and i told you i thought that unwise and 
even suggested giving you an option at 40 m so there would be no tension 
Mar 14, I told you that to do the job right, my team would need to do it. not yours it would not be 
inexpensive, but it would get done properly, you chose not to do itand said lets wait and see 
April 14. We agreed to clean up various past mess.with the end of my work OCT 15th only then would i get 
paid.. urged JPM ( first of 14 reminders) 
GS and db accounts to be set up in order to bring your financial structure into the 21 century 
July 26 , I came to bens party, said new people needed to be hired, keep Eileen till end of year, and Ada till 
march, you suggested getting ada out earlier 
oct structured the art partnership , but you wanted to wait until you fully understood ramifications formed the 
doc in dec to have it in 14, 
nov/ dec 14 I told you I considered my work complete separate from art partnership. gave list of things to do. 
three months of you and your high school friend , trying to build a house with little of the relenavt 
experience, its silly . still no accurate numbers accounting , charts, etc 
jan 15, I told you joslin cannot hire people, has not so for more than 5 years, former job in a public accounting 
firm. 
april 15 . no senior accountant even in the wings. joslin talking about reaching out to hire the only person he 
knew( worked in the past with dagazsitno ) and i interviewed 15 months ago. and rejected. low level. He 
does not want to hire himself out of a job, spoke to brad last night he wants a coo so that he does not feel 
demoted 
your choice!, ( brad maybe does have insight - to your credit, might have been right when he said- jeffrey you 
should realize this is only about leon not wanting to pay more money, ( i ignored his summary, along with his 
comments on the risk of fracturing 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023348 
summary 
I can either do it for you or not. if i do it it means finding hiring organizeing, structuring reviewing re 
negotiating, bring in my team under my control not brads. . stop -gap accounting - my people getting the 
books software and procedure in shape. setting up the various brokerage and bank accounts and rationalizing 
them, organizing Melanie, TPS , house, and all the intra family notes outstanding, overseeing the phaidon 
mess.maybe sale re do some of estate given the new circumstances. etc. I 've responded to every brad question 
, given him first lessons, not a good use of my time or his. he should administrate, follow up, have signing 
authority instead of eileen, ( AFTER rationalized accounts ). holding a position of trust. ONLY 
talk whenever you like, NO STRESS, Mort had a skiing accident and sultan not fully comp es mentes. no 
stress please for either of us . both of our reserves which are not insubstantial , can use a break 
Date: Tue, Apr 7, 2015 at 4:29 PM 
Subject: 
To: Melanie Spinella 
agenda for tomorrow. 
1 building an office from scratch. who does it. ? so far little or no progress in real terms. . brad should 
remain and can administrate, follow up methodically, . has no idea of corrrect questions to ask. or 
understanding of family office issues. procedures checlks and balances. etc .. consultants , diana 
goldner foundtaion woman?. office. focus. 
2. without strong , very stroung direction, joslin will not make it. does not know where to focus. who to 
respond to. and how. unfortunately now getting more and more answers like the powers that be , want it that 
way.?? 
3. the priority list is still virtually the same , since dec. . accounting system. redone from scratch. etc. 
4 . it will take 9 months. at a minimum now. . an outsider brought in when everything is clean, including 
phaidon, notes. eileen. banks, jpm db, bam, etc. 
5 disposition, of Phaidon. art space regan etc.( ressler??) . sale of boat. plane . art, stock, investments, athene? 
etc, tra, brh. 
6 . new IT . complex. household . payroll insurance . recurring bills. 
7 estate modification given new circunstances and altered probablities. ( use etc ) 
8 charity, new trusts,!!d IPI< harvard. fees, 
I spoke to brad and made him aware of all my concerns and propsals to move forward. he is desperate for 
help 
Date: Tue, Apr 14, 2015 at 11:53 PM 
Subject: 
To: Melanie Spinella 
saved you 500k at the last minute, . brad has had the same chart since march 16th, its his job to review NOT 
MINE .appears he is one of those living in the dark leiwe. I found 8 million dollars today, missed 
deductions. . not yet in the numbers,.? 
Date: Tue, Apr 21, 2015 at 1:10 PM 
Subject: 
To: Melanie Spinella 
emblematic of my frustration and ,in the end what I believe is a waste of our time energy money and 
resources. is the very simple question of bidco bank accounts. 4 months ago I asked the question, does it 
have a bank account and if so , who has authority, where is it located and what transacations ran through it. it 
is only one question out of hundreds that need to be answered. hundreds. . you asked that i not behave like 
Zeus and try to explain why I want need certain things. since i said to placate Brad's inquisitive ness and his 
desire to learn I said a filing might be required. instead of merely getting me the answer. he has talked to 
joslin paul weiss , you, you wanted to ask brad karp. ( maybe a filing that reopened things, ) 
none of this as a practical matter has any influence upon the ultimate action taken . I merely needed to 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023349 
know a simple answer. and today after asking at least every week since then do not have an answer. I have 
been trying not to add stress to your day. i try to explain things and take the time to do so gently, ( not my forte 
. this is one question out of hundreds. the fact that a 21 year old was in the office only xeroxing for a 
month, was obvious to everyone in the office. having a 26 year old xeroxing instead doesnt move us 
forward, answers first. copying old files. can wait. 
Date: Wed, Apr 22, 2015 at 1:56 PM 
Subject: another flowery email. 
To: Melanie Spinella 
I am sorry. I realize you are under tremendous stress, In Bedford you asked me for my help I could not have 
been more clear that thought it very unwise as in my words I did not want any financial arrangment between 
us, it risked conflict and tension what neither of us needed more of and did not want to risk torturing our 
friendship into the likes of the kind you have with Mark nor Josh, : now,- I dont have anyone but you yelling 
at me, in my own house. no one. it is highly unpleasant but I am trying my best to be understanding. sorry 
. From the outset and as you told me you recall. i tsuggested that three years should be the period of 
engagment. as planning is not a one year excericse . you declined to commit to a number of alternatives 
presented to you for payment of the third year. I told you in nov that you should decide whether to now sign 
on for that very third year as the vast majority of my work ended on oct 15. you recently told me you thought i 
was kidding. .you hired brad patting him on the back that after months of inquiry he can now, finallly tell you 
which Ilc owns the cars?? 
once he has all the facts what next ??. whether or not you refer to a portion of the third year as after care, or 
whatever term besides 'scoundrel you choose to use, I m not sure why you assume now it should be free.( 
I HATE THIS CONVERSATION < HATE , ) and i heard you when you said you told me what was I work 
still to be done you thought valuable enough to pay for. please tell me. and then we can decide the next steps 
if any. I consider my work rarefied art. I guess the value is in the eye of the beholder. IT reminds me of 
those people looking at a modern art piece and saying  my child could do that . hope you are feeling better. 
Date: Fri, May 1, 2015 at 12:50 AM 
Subject: 
To: Melanie Spinella 
ada and brad are respondlnle for the loan,. docs, at a minimum, leon he hasn't read the financial 
statements SINCE DEC. !!. impossible ,had he done so the silly numbers jump off the page . ( sent in another 
email ). it is a financial office., 190 million sitting unused in CASH , budget and planning person for what , its 
not a publice co. ? townhouse construciton , household operations, boat, plane, taxes, we went through this 
with the cash flow, you and i know approx how much each will cost. its a week job not a full' time 
one- ada has no lien copies. none. ?! impossible not to know, ask, quesiton? two senior accountants CPA 
s. not the 75k girl that they hired, . IT professional backed by a firm. high quality,can we tap apollo 
resources? new lawyer , heather level . new receptionist, and bookeeper. get rid of ava. next could be new 
office ,new furniture „ the whole place reeks of cheap. IT IS MAY< I have not been asked to interview one 
person to date. not one. having cpas in there tomrrow woudl go a long way. i dont understand the time 
line, coo first. ? in by july?? cpas in by sept. tax return due oct 15. ? 
Date: Fri, May 1, 2015 at 2:36 PM 
Subject: 
To: Melanie Spinella________________________________ 
I know that both you and I heard brads'. im out of here if i dont get a coo. . sorry,. i know that neither of us 
have stood in the way of his finding/ gettting one.. JPM account DB account GS account, ??? its MAY 
1. nothing in the first quarter and these are only papers that need signing. 
I suggest your thinking on my role and compensation for my work might benefit, from a mental shift - think 
mark and josh, without the mutual resentment ( HAHA) only in terms of sharing ,thanks, I am and have been 
your financial partner i.. rectifying circumstances that appear in hind sight unexplainable. I wish you woudl 
have asked me earllier to review your things , but i understand. I do know that soley as a result of my actions 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023350 
your personal bottom line has increased dramatically, if you had thought of me as your partner in this 
endeavor , instead of an employee, i think your reaction to sharing t benefits would be different. 
If you recall, you wanted me to be paid , unlike others at the END of my work. we discussed this ad 
nauseum, and agreed OCT 15, last year was the end. You had wanted more comfort initially on the art 
partnership so that date was delayed. It has now been six monhts since then, your concept of aftercare. . for 
free. was already unique, in your words this has to have an end.( weaned ) if the actions of josh and 
mark led to one hundred million dollars , what would be their share. Im not sure why it is different in your 
mind, but i respect the fact that it is, Is it because their work seems harder. it cannot be simply because they 
devote more time to you .or it appears to involve more effort. I am happy to continue to play a partnership 
role. as I have been in many areas of your life.. I am also happy to move on and have no more of these 
emails. I find them as tedious as you do. if you prefer a partnership structure, ok with me, I tried to minimize 
the amount of money i would recieve by making it a flat fee . as i wanted you to feel good and have no second 
thoguths somehow if the payment comes from a partnership structure you seem relaxed as opposed to writing 
a check, I focus on trust and friendship first, and the fact that you don't include josh and mark in that 
category, gives me great pause . I proposed 33 percent of money made for you.. in the past you agreed that 
amount. it will be huge, but ok with me, I can talk today at 945 as you suggested. or if you woudl rather 
over the weekend ok 
Date: Fri, May 1, 2015 at 7:08 PM 
Subject: Fwd: Picasso agreement - question 
To: Melanie Spinella 
silly 
Date: Fri, May 1, 2015 at 12:27 PM 
Subject: Picasso agreement - question 
To: Brad Wechsler L 
<jeevacation@gmail.com> 
_ 
1>, Jeffrey Epstein cjeevacation@gmail.com) 
Brad and Jeffrey, 
Gagosian has one final change to the Picasso agreement. As you know, we have structured this agreement with 
the Buyer as either Narrows Holdings LLC or AP Narrows LP, and given both of those entities the right to 
assign the agreement to any one among Leon, Debra, the kids, or family trusts including AP01 and AP02. 
Gagosian wants us to agree that, if Narrows/AP Narrows assigns the agreement to someone else, Narrows/AP 
Narrows shall not be discharged from its liabilities under this Agreement and shall remain primarily liable to 
Seller. Larry is concerned that we might assign to the Black kids or to a trust that has no assets, and then when 
he has to sue us because we don't make the final payment of the purchase price but have possession of the art, 
the entity/person to which we have assigned the agreement has no money. 
I think this is a valid concern and that we should agree to it. 
However, Ada just reminded me that it is possible that Narrows/AP Narrows (really, Leon's) agreeing to 
effectively guarantee payment by the assignee might be considered a gift to the assignee. In the discussions 
with Alan about rearranging the bank loan once AP Narrows is operational, Alan agreed that there could be 
deemed to be a potential gift from Leon to AP01/AP02 if Leon provides a guarantee to the bank that is for the 
benefit of the trusts as partners in AP Narrows. Alan suggested mitigating this risk by having the trusts sign 
side agreements with Leon which say that if AP Narrows defaults on the loan and the bank goes after Leon on 
his guarantee, the trusts will make him whole. 
This issue only arises if we assign the agreement. The risk is also limited in time because it would run from the 
moment we assigned the agreement until the final payment is made, which even if we assigned immediately 
after signing, would only be 11 1/2 months. 
Shall I agree to Gagosian's request that Narrows/AP Narrows remain liable even if they assign the agreement? 
I'm in the office if you would like to discuss this, but I would love to get back to Gagosian ASAP so we can 
have this agreement signed today. 
Thanks, 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023351 
Heather 
Date: Mon, May 11, 2015 at 3:08 PM 
Subject: 
To: Brad Wechsler 
Richard Joslin 
lets look at funding the art partnership begin with 100 m of unencumbered art. plus 20 inveestment. and the 
same amoiunt of value from trust. leon should choose b trustee and begin to use mechanics. . later we can 
amend and add. 
2 hire an IT person asap 
3.1 would hire jerry the woman. gittis. person 
4 .I will find a subpart k person to handle partnership acct 
5 , accounting software upgrade, onlilne banking needs to be seamless 
6. not sure status of bringing plane boat acct inhouse? 
7 prepare fbar report for june. draft next week 
8 pahidon actuals vs projections. . new valuation 
9. new valuation of tra contract? 
jpm db goldman sachs acct? new Ilc? 
review of dec 31 books for all entities? bfp . etc 
Melanie S inella 
, Ada Clapp 
Date: Wed, May 13, 2015 at 3:04 PM 
Subject: Fwd: jobs ahead 
To: Melanie Spinella 
the list that we discussed.. i spent time with brad again. re the candidates filing due, this week, next 
month,. 
Date: Sun, Dec 28, 2014 at 5:18 AM 
Subject: jobs ahead 
To: Brad Wechsler Melanie Spinella 
, Ada Clapp 
1. review accounting system. Book keeping softaware. staff, ( senior accountant ) methods on line banking, 
brokerage. cash mgmt. airplane reimbursement. boat sale. art purchases sales use and sales tax. tax 
filings FBAR FATCA, gaming commsion, pfics, insurance . uk co law. 
2. review docs for TRA BRH grats, trusts, heritage will, insurance, art lending. medical, springing 
powers. two fire drill books. one needed for injury, other for death 
3 review bills. boats , planes, legal, ( PW, McFarlands all outside. legal and accounting. Toms bills over 
400k. house projects. south ny ben 
4 cashflow projections tax projections , interaction with Apollo accounting tax, Phaidon ,art space ,and 
Regan. legal accounting. audit 
5. children meetings, review to date and allocations 
6 review all role in payables. files scanned, no paper 
7 review invesmtents for tax basis and unrecognized gain 
8 schedule of all hedge funds . redeemables commitments etc. 
9 charities pledges strucutre, staff, 
Date: Mon, May 18, 2015 at 2:17 PM 
Subject: agenda for tomorrrow 
To: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com>, Melanie Spinella 
as a reflection on your voiced spirited concerns in the what have you done for me lately category ? 
in the beginning . there was eileen and tom. ( eve and adam,-- however it appears, she declined to 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023352 
eat the apple from the knowledge tree) 
. that was it. ada was at the bank but reviewing does. carlyn was in the kitchen making mush ( abel and cain) 
books as they were mystersiously called was being kept soley by eileen, with little or no input ,correction or 
advice from tom. herarely if ever asked questions. expenses ie airplane was done in house apollo. (1031 
exchange blown etc) at this time 
as I recall you got quite annoyed, and agressive and initiated the talking out of the both sides of your mouth 
tiddy, when i suggested that the level of their competence left much to be desired. ( ralph lerner's came later 
) .response - eileen ran the desk, tom is a partner, ralph wrote the book etc 
re tax there was almost no oversight of income, estate, gift ,sales and use, transfer excise etc . IRS SEC 
GAMING NYS. real estate, valuations ( many )tax filings- disclosures, etc. re grats trusts defect trusts, Ilcs 
corps , trustees , partnerships. foreign corps. 100 bank accounts. gift taxes„ loans, notes. payables. expenses. 
. , insurance.( life, art, split dollar), cashflows, operating biz„ investments, contingent liabilitiites.( funds, 
miami ) , commitments dividends, BRH TRA, shareholder agreements, bank loan 
agreements. wills, construction„ contracts planning permits etc. .employ rules. checking account 
reconciliations, crediti cards. jewelry, cost basis ,( art stock etc.) foundations regs , brokerage accts, old 
stock certificates. stock options,( environmental solutions still not done !). estate tax calcualtion firedrill, ( 
note ,basis etc ) low basis , step ups , however with no accounting system, no reveiw of boat expenses plane 
expenses etc. . many outside counsel with litle or no coordination. 
Paul Weisss , Mcdermit Will, Macfarlanes. Price Waterhouse , Reich, withers bergman, Empire„ akin gump, 
bbd seidman, Wendy , Apollo in house. 
lumber, knowledge universe, ennvironmental, solutions 12 mu i in stock, . on and on 
the priority list that you asked me to prepare for brad and you in dec , unfortunatlleyso far, little change 
ie no accounting system that ties, no, brokerage accounts though strongly suggested, jpm db, gs, april of 
2014 . IT antiquated 
dagastino hired, no inut from me, julie, temps, paralegals miriam. etc. 
still need new accounting system - on line banking. staff hires. ( seprate from samantha two years out of 
school ). audit system, . ?? john murphy? joslin? dag? eva?. i strongly suggest workers at the highest level of 
competence. two senior accountants. not managers workers who will get into the weeds. partn expertise„ 
replace ava, get heather help. a new person legal , new IT,system and person, way way overdue, new 
receptionist, bill opener, ability to oeversee 
in house, boat plane review household ( 12million ) review, filings- partnerhip accounting,- familitarity with 
grats, trusts etc . audit system put in place. that should be the easy part. then strategy to deal with: As new 
facts on the ground develop , phaidon debra, children meeetings, ? stock sale sale of art„ apt( large gain ), 
1031 trade in , plane depreciation, boat sale. construction, brad will oversee brokerage and investment, ?? pe. 
real es, . publishing, grats, tra, brh ( death). foundation , museum, tax proejctions cash flow projections, 
cooridnation with tax from apollo. etc 
Date: Fri, May 29, 2015 at 2:53 AM 
Subject: ulysses 2.0 _________________________________ 
To: Melanie Spinella___________________________________ 
I realize it is only due to a lack of understanind of the job ahead. and not out of any sense of unwillingess to 
pay 
- as opposed to merely hiring people to set up a family office, someone will have to do the following- separate 
from the art partnership which is my responsiblity. there still needs to be a huge amount of work done for 
2015,16. not to mention that brad at the moment is going to have train the incoming team?? your call 
strategic decisions re estate and other planning, sale of phaidon etc. . in addition setting up for the accounting 
for each strategy ie.: 
income, estate, gift ,sales and use, transfer excise picasso, 1031 calder. . review and detailed oversite of IRS 
SEC GAMING NYS. real estate, entity valuations ( many ) tax filings- disclosures, follow up of grats, 
trusts ,defective trusts, Ilcs corps , trustees , partnerships. foreign corps. 100 bank account need to be 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023353 
rationalized, not only having brad step in to children investments. gift taxes, trust, loans, notes. payables. 
expenses allocations . . , insurance.( life, art, split dollar), cashflows, operating biz„ investments, contingent 
liabilitiites.( funds , miami ) , commitments funds and charities, dividend treatment -important review of 
transcations relating to BRH ( amendments) TRA sale ( nuanced ) , shareholder agreements, bank loan 
agreements new bank relationships. . wills, construction accounting and oversite , contracts planning 
permits etc. .employee rules, regs, . checking account reconciliations, crediti cards. jewelry, cost basis ,( art 
stock etc.) foundations regs , brokerage accts, . stock options,( ie environmental solutions still not done !). 
estate tax calcualtion firedrill, ( note ,basis etc ) review of boat expenses plane expenses, depreciation issues 
refunds etc. . rationalize all outside counsels and accounting firms 
Paul Weisss , Mcdermit Will, Macfarlanes. Price Waterhouse , Reich, withers bergman, Empire„ akin gump, 
bbd seidman„ Apollo in house counsel. 
set up and oversee brokerage accounts at JPM DB GS and thoughfullly trade 
. new IT system from top to bottom full time IT person 
new accounting system - on- line banking cooridnated with reports . fire drills as per caruci ( he sounds good 
) and. audit system,s . review of john murphy? joslin? dag? eva?. 
in house, review household ( 12million ) review, filings- partnerhip accounting,- familitarity with grats, trusts 
etc . audit system put in place. that should be the easy part. then strategy re: 
As new facts on the ground develop, phaidon debra, children meeetings, involvment, 
trustees adjusted, stock sale sale of art„ apt( large gain ), 1031 trade in, plane depreciation, boat sale. 
construction, brad will oversee brokerage and investment, ?? pe?. real estate?, . publishing, grats, tra, brh ( 
death). foundation, museum, tax proejctions cash flow projections, cooridnation with tax from apollo. etc 
you are sitting on over 100 m of cash???!! 
Subject: Re: we're calling the sales tax guy at 6:30 pm - I'll come to your office  
To: Richard Joslin Brad Wechsler 
, Heather Gray 
sorry but this is emblematic of the silliness that appears to continue. ..... 1. How can we ask for a legal opinion 
when it is crystal clear that we don't yet have accurate facts or numbers , f. 2 Invoices have not been 
reviewed! corporate structure is convoluted and unexplored in detail. ( was the boat captain on the 
call?) 3 Paul weiss is the attny, and should be charged with getting us info. . 4. Bringing in yet another 
outside lawyer without full vetting and consideration, a waste of time energy and money. . 5. ex. what is the 
location of charters shown on the invoice? do you know. . ? if th invoices are incorrect, does that give us 
any comfort in trying to defend an audit. . I saw three invoices only, and each had a different owner or 
address . . 
Date: Mon, May 18, 2015 at 8:17 AM 
Subject: agenda for tomorrrow 
To: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com>, Melanie Spinella 
as a reflection on your voiced spirited concerns in the what have you done for me lately category ? 
)):: . in the beginning . there was eileen and tom. ( eve and adam,-- however it appears, she declined to 
eat the apple from the knowledge tree) 
. that was it. ada was at the bank but reviewing docs. carlyn was in the kitchen making mush ( abel and cain) 
books as they were mystersiously called was being kept soley by eileen, with little or no input ,correction or 
advice from tom. herarely if ever asked questions. expenses ie airplane was done in house apollo. (1031 
exchange blown etc) at this time 
as I recall you got quite annoyed, and agressive and initiated the talking out of the both sides of your mouth 
tiddy, when i suggested that the level of their competence left much to be desired. ( ralph lerner's came later 
) .response - eileen ran the desk, tom is a partner, ralph wrote the book etc 
re tax there was almost no oversight of income, estate, gift ,sales and use, transfer excise etc . IRS SEC 
GAMING NYS. real estate, valuations ( many )tax filings- disclosures, etc. re grats trusts defect trusts, Ilcs 
corps , trustees , partnerships. foreign corps. 100 bank accounts. gift taxes„ loans, notes. payables. expenses. 
. , insurance.( life, art, split dollar), cashflows, operating biz„ investments, contingent liabilitiites.( funds, 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023354 
miami ) , commitments dividends, BRH TRA, shareholder agreements, bank loan 
agreements. wills, construction„ contracts planning permits etc. .employ rules. checking account 
reconciliations, crediti cards. jewelry, cost basis ,( art stock etc.) foundations regs , brokerage accts, old 
stock certificates. stock options,( environmental solutions still not done !). estate tax calcualtion firedrill, ( 
note ,basis etc ) low basis , step ups , however with no accounting system, no reveiw of boat expenses plane 
expenses etc. . many outside counsel with litle or no coordination. 
Paul Weisss , Mcdermit Will, Macfarlanes. Price Waterhouse , Reich, withers bergman, Empire„ akin gump, 
bbd seidman, Wendy , Apollo in house. 
lumber, knowledge universe, ennvironmental, solutions 12 mu i in stock, . on and on 
the priority list that you asked me to prepare for brad and you in dec , unfortunatlleyso far, little change 
ie no accounting system that ties, no, brokerage accounts though strongly suggested, jpm db, gs, april of 
2014 . IT antiquated 
dagastino hired, no inut from me, julie, temps, paralegals miriam. etc. 
still need new accounting system - on line banking. staff hires. ( seprate from samantha two years out of 
school ). audit system, . ?? john murphy? joslin? dag? eva?. i strongly suggest workers at the highest level of 
competence. two senior accountants. not managers workers who will get into the weeds. partn expertise„ 
replace ava, get heather help. a new person legal , new IT,system and person, way way overdue, new 
receptionist, bill opener, ability to oeversee 
in house, boat plane review household ( 12million ) review, filings- partnerhip accounting,- familitarity with 
grats, trusts etc . audit system put in place. that should be the easy part. then strategy to deal with: As new 
facts on the ground develop, phaidon debra, children meeetings, ? stock sale sale of art„ apt( large gain ), 
1031 trade in , plane depreciation, boat sale. construction, brad will oversee brokerage and investment, ?? pe. 
real es, . publishing, grats, tra, brh ( death). foundation , museum, tax proejctions cash flow projections, 
cooridnation with tax from apollo. etc 
Date: Tue, Jun 30, 2015 at 12:23 PM 
Subject: 
To: Melanie Spinella __________________________________ 
1.I believe I have heard you , but i wanted to make certain that I have understood 
Though after much discussion ,- much! you were adamant that i receive my fee only at the very END of my 
work, oct 15 , this was a long discussion but you felt very strongly at the time . you now feel that as it was 
a very large sum of money . some of my time this year should be spent on your recent concept of after care 
. - and that after care should be for free. I have continued to pay others as well. 
I have asked and you have previously said you would lay out for me what you thought was encompassed by 
the concept. that was end of january Training brad?? who was your choice . not mine ,by a long shot. only 
brought on in january? ? hundreds of hours spent . eileen debrief? 2. boat. plane 
household ex[penses. personal review? , trying to create accurate ledgers of capital expenses . so to minimize 
future gain.? 3. phaidon - review from head to toe? though we agreed many times in the past this was not 
my responsbility, 4. overseeing the opening of trading accts. proposed and sent over first docs in april of 
14. .5. art partnership.? we agreed though the draft was sent in sept14 . and still not done though little 
different from first draft. . 6 picasso contract? 7 art sale 1031 8 airplane review? 9. IT system 
implementation. ? tra brh sec gaming comm, foerign filing , tax, disclosure. fondation returns. ? planning for 
16? not sure . 10. insurane review with josh? stock sale prep. ? filing ? 
I am available by phone. you mentioned my travel schedule ----last yea,r I canceled three European trips and 
two to seatle , none to my benefit. 
I have been consistant, I dont have any new proposal , do you ? though i am complicated , I have no 
intention of trying to convince you of value, its silly, 
000000000000000000 i think if I have correctly deciphered your sophisticated code - should 
represent -drool 
Date: Tue, Mar 3, 2015 at 5:18 AM 
Subject: Fwd: 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023355 
To: Melanie Spinella 
lets set a time to speak today if possible . 30 minutes or so. my schedule is tight 
From: jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> 
Date: Mon, Sep 21, 2015 at 6:36 PM 
Subject: agenda for today 5 pm?  
To: Melanie Spinella___________________________________>, Brad S Karp 
1. put someone on asap to ascertain if she is still in london. 2. set up conference will uk criminal and uk 
counsel. a give them more facts. 3. choose method of message delivery, my choice. - two highly 
respected former ---- fill in the blank, immigration, scotland yard. sfo. . who may knock on her door and 
present the terms. 4 if not. an alternative method. 5. Is it possible to find out if she has gone to 
authorities? tabloid lawyer. 6. have the same types of individuals availble in new york if she decides to return 
as stated. . i prefer former fbi, or immigration one man one woman. . 7 from opening a DA investigation to 
arrest. how long? 8, can we open a file in either jurisdiction, and maintain confidentiality. 
Date: Mon, Sep 21, 2015 at 6:48 PM 
Subject: Re: agenda for today 5 pm? 
To: Melanie Spinella 
Cc: Brad S Karp 
I think that Melanie should set up a separate email account for this correspondence. she currently is on an 
apollo server. 
There is not even a good solution. all have substantial risks, we are dealing with a wholly unpredictable and 
bad minded person. I and Brad can only make suggestions/actions each less than stellar. - that being 
said we should do our best to have all the facts . options etc. and to distinguish fact from opionion As the 
consequences of any decision is likely to have some very bad parts , Leon needs to be cognizant of as much as 
the downside as we can adequately foresee. 
Date: Wed, Sep 23, 2015 at 12:07 AM 
Subject: Fwd: 
To: Melanie Spinella 
jan 2 of this year 
Date: Fri, Jan 2, 2015 at 2:55 PM 
Subject: 
To: Melanie Spinella_______________________________ 
Leon, I decided last week that there was little or no upside in disturbing your well earned holiday especiaily as 
you seemed so peaceful happy and smiley ,getting yourself in shape and truly enjoying your family time. etc. 
however the situation in your family office is unresolved. I am aware that brad starts monday howver, two last 
days of the year madness. timber.deal not complete no jpm,acct activity no partnership docs, old stock 
sales not complete , no bank doc redo. no phaidon note restructure, ., no boat expense review, airplane same 
,topco midco.etc still not finished ( trustee ) , projections mixed with fiction. , legal exp out of control. no 
care for admin, silly ( audit). tom conversation with joslin. notes. debra, trustee notes. trustees hiring . bens 
audit. interest payable made hoopjumping last day of year. after weeks and months. of lectures , gifts to 
discuss- staff. -houseproject mgmt. . I will continue to try, I had offered ajoint call with eileen before you 
left. as i said before , joslin takes instructions from eileen. he said it was made clear to him that he doesn't 
work for me but works for you. . I tried. 
Date: Tue, Sep 29, 2015 at 8:39 PM 
Subject: 
To: Melanie Spinella 
jeffrey 
Brad Wechsler is asking if you could meet for a half hour with him and Rich Joslin to discuss Use Tax 
Refund. Below are available dates/times...below that is your schedule. OK for me to schedule in?: 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023356 
NO sorry not until i hear from leon 
leon. to be fair, I had sent the first note to you one year ago . stating that my work would come to an end on 
oct 15. that day had meaning as everything would be closed, you asked that i continue to help brad. as of 
nov though he would officially start in jan. I said ok, but.....  you told me to continue as we would work 
something out I told you my fee then was 40. feb you came with ben while kathy ruemmler was here. and 
said next week, debra got bad news. and I quickly prioritzed not adding stress to your situation. I wont 
regurgitate the interim, though millions of dollars were saved since. millions. . it is now one year later and you 
propose 10 mIllion , plus a contingent fee . I have said that i would work with you, and if contingent and a 
percentage of something. I strongly believe that is not in your interest. I continue to put our friendship first 
and dont want you to write a check for over 100million andthe i will have to listen to lewie for the next few 
years. but if you prefer over my objection a percentage deal then it should be of all savings not just 
phaidon. ( a random concept) . The idea that i am somehow even marginally responsible for neither you nor 
heather, ever telling me that there was an unresolved issue, though you said you had been pinged a number of 
times is emblematic . 
I can do a call with you and Karp. anytime you like today, but i can assure you 100 percent that there is no 
light between our positions. ZERO. and he is ready to do his best to try to explain it to you. 
Date: Thu, Oct 1, 2015 at 11:03 PM 
Subject: Fwd: 
To: Melanie Spinella 
to refresh your recollection, as 4 states. 40 a year for three years. as i said today. . the other was in addtion 
as you recall. 
Date: Thu, Apr 11, 2013 at 4:02 PM 
Subject: 
To: Melanie Spinella 
1. 80 percent of contracted job is accomplished, now drafting ,signing and few critical decisions on your part 
still await , will fill in nec blanks, 1, how much of upside to kids. , 2, protections . 3 allocations. 4. 
charitiable, inventory, securities, 
2 .to engage the second phase if you so choose , and considering there is only 8 more to be paid this 
year in oct, for the job now almost completed, total of 23. that was agreed only for history fix. 
3. with the necessary proprietary protections , proposal is for first year only an additional 17 . making it 40 , but 
full year balance on signing, ie 25. takes care of 2013 
4, moving forward, 40 per year ,( approx 1 percent ) for three years, to be credited against an agreed 
formula. Im open to suggestions total approx 120 for new workover 3 years , benefits to you over the next 20. 
5 , can consider interests other than cash as payment. ? 
6. need to speak re , bankers, valuations, mechanics and their continued importance. 
Date: Fri, Oct 16, 2015 at 4:38 AM 
Subject: 
To: Melanie Spinella_________________________________ 
Office, - ada goes. , hire heather a paralegal. Joslin goes or is closely managed by new cfo with tax 
experience. . castrucii goes asap.as he merely adds to mess.( too many people, ex 7 people or more to pay a 
bill ) eva goes. outsource as much as possible. . bookkeeping systems built from scratch, airplane 
restructure, boat. same, new grats. phaidon sale , decide on artspace survivability, regan,. do the kids really 
want these? , children accounting ie bens house.etc. re do estate for new facts. redo loans, trading accounts 
activity, . gaming -foreign- disclosures. . BRH TRA re thinks. household and construction 
architects. . redone. art partnership , choice of paintings. . re do structure of consultants. tax re family 
office. . decide if investments are a realistic option in the next three years.. insurance, operations. airplane, 
etc. . art foundation , private. max charity contributions, financial reports. still waiting. ? on line 
banking, . tax planning, family office deductions ( profit center ) . airplane certificate, redone jet aviation 
redo. . paper gigi ( E )trust to avoid gift tax.. 
today is Oct 15 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023357 
With your full knowledge I paid out 8 mil to my staff before june, . so i guess I can safely assume that after 
consideration of all the things I did for the entire past year separate and apart from your unique free after 
care concept. , what you thought was ultimately fair was the contribution of 5 million to a foundation 
and a total of 2 million dollars to me. 
Date: Fri, Oct 16, 2015 at 1:08 PM 
Subject: 
To: Melanie Spinella . 
I think you should consider the fact that your family office will be the most central component of what you 
leave to your children , wife heirs. it is the core of your assets. your art might be sold. your houses may lie 
empty, the apollo stock could be sold. you will pass on your office, . it will be the primary player in your 
estate tax. probate, transition. Brad has taken it from a D minus to a C minus, If I were you I would set the 
goal of an A. just like your paintings. . Like a house you could attempt to renovate it. it will take more time 
and money. or. in essence as I suggested in dec of 13, start from scratch. A financail head of 
office. - brad could move to being richards replacment as trustee. . barry cohen would be perfect but carries 
the trustee taint now. . take a tax partner from a major firm. to replace joslin, cost 1 + mil . keep heather 
and ssmantha. . bring in full time IT person. ASAP . your lighting contractor in your new townhouse has 
better IT than your multi billlion dollar antique opersation. data breaches are not your concern, precision is. . 
either re do the office layout. or get enterly new space. the proposals to focus on following on a monthly basis 
the values of all your current investments is an example of misplaced prioirties. . Your office is the heart of 
the familys financial life and temp future, it needs a heart operation 
Date: Mon, Oct 19, 2015 at 5:10 PM 
Subject: 
To: Melanie Spinella 
Radical but my preferred idea. . START from total scratch. there is absolutely nothing worth keeping in 
your family office except for heather, nothing at all . I remember when i bought my first house in order to 
renovate and jack robertson said forget it. knock it down start again, I could n't believe it. but he was 
right. Like your tax returns that were done in triplicate. TOM RICH ALAN. . tom and rich were not really 
useful in the end. Alan was the only smart one. you should in my opinion Start a brand new office. hire 
cfo. bring joe over, heather and samantha, run parallel for 6 months and close down the mess of elysium 
forever, leave your kids a functioning operation professionally constructed and managed. NOT BY ME!!! 
LAst nov i laid out priorities IT , being the first nothing as of today. in July I said focus on airplane as a test 
. to examine procedure and proficiency, so far mostly a waste of resources time people etc. Only last week 
told debra owns 49 percent of plane. no IT to speak of. bens house unaccounted for. tax returns very 
very sloppy, . boat still argued as third home. . pilots bonuses? , structure unkown by all. cash sitlling at the 
same time loans outstanding. 
Phaidon, looks like close to breakeven in a few years. others totally unknown. Query, do you really want 
this ? : I m not sure how you both want to have an investment office and have cash flow being eaten by 
publishing and loans amounts outstanding increased by art. --interest rates will be going up.- . your plane will 
cost 10 million to refinance - so will boat if sold next year-. art space and regan , both needs more cash. with 
little return, taxes , art purchases . Part of radical solutition is to sell publishing.altogether. (are the children 
really interested.) . restrucuture plane from scratch. layers unncessary. simplify crazy structure s bank 
accounts trading accounts accounts payble. credit cards. etc. The best way to wean yourself away from me 
is to have someone else do the whole thing from scratch. . move brad to be the replacement for Richard. . he is 
nice but this is not what he does. Him saying it is s0000 fucked up to me , was only an echo of me sayint it to 
you. 
Subj ect: 
To: Melanie Spinella 
as brad can attest, I spent time today with joslin, joe. etc. no question at all, a failed experiment. In the 
words of a banker that made a call on your office. what happened? leon seems to have replaced Eillenn with a 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023358 
team of Shleppers. ? I know you care little for what they may think , but the legacy you leave your kids is just 
that. you only have 60 days of planning left for this year. numbers are all over the place. 
I recieved a nice call from Karp today, . He touted me as a great friend to you. I am happy to be just that. 
. He said it was important for me to tell you what others won't. Keep heather, fire EVERYONE else. 
Date: Mon, Oct 26, 2015 at 1:10 PM 
Subject: CONSTRUCTIVE? 
To: Brad Wechsler Melanie Spinella 
1 cash flow projections for 16. . draft ok. i will be easy. i need rought projection. 
out now with who signs in sale of shares vs enitities. ? ie managing memebrs. . 2 . 
o , dynasty, ( does leon want to put in new restrictions per child ). - publishing interests. . 3 11c, for 
investments 4 names insured? guarnatees? art loans. outstanding. sales or use tax owed? 4, comparison of 
execu jet vs jet aviation. . 5. the bank loan on the jet is going to come due. does leon prefer to extend f they 
would ( he is a guarantor. ? ) or will he need to pay 10 million cash to renew, that wiill determine new 
structure of plane. getting rid of rance, wells fargo, john hannon, lisa gratizaino etc. . 5. boat restructure . 6 
grats - if leon decie to have another. 7 accountning for children, . 
2. phaidon chart laid 
3 new trusts. Apo-
Date: Mon, Oct 26, 2015 at 7:08 PM 
Subject: draft 
To: Melanie Spinella Brad Wechsler 
phaidon and art space. combined basis 96 million, ( reviewed with brad and joe.) 
. add ten for 
restructuring . basis 106. mi. subtract total sale price, for both, lets say approx $8 - 15m . leaving loss 
of between 90 and 98 million long term loss. . AMT rate 28 % obama. tax 3.8%. city and state 
12% total aprox 43 %. tax rate. savings 38.7 - 44 m 
0:51 PM (15 hours ago) 
to me, Richard, Karen 
DAli[Good afternoon 
Removal of headers in Cabana's 1 and 2 started today 
Dock Shelters proposed start date 16 Apr 
LSJ staff cottage and Sams kitchen and bath cabinets are due in this week. 
Have yet to schedule install. 
Will have estimate for GSJ Staff Cottage from EB by the end of the week 
Unable to contact Jimmy again regarding thIs project, Reached our Monday to schedule site meeting, got a - 
No Can Do - 
reply !!! 
Regards Brice 
Date: Mon, Oct 26, 2015 at 8:37 PM 
Subject: 
To: Brad Wechsler , Melanie Spinella 
gain at 20 % not 28. . so total, 35.8%. tax rate. same for boat. and plane each around 10 m so total 7 m 
savings if both sold 
Date: Fri, Jun 3, 2016 at 5:56 PM 
Subject: 
To: Heather Gray _____________________ 
heather leon seems to not recall the issue of finding an alternative to the eschange agents resale cerificate. he 
didnt remeebr you suggesting a gallery instead, you mentioned that he did not want to get another gallery 
involved. ? has any of the transactions been audited using this method , which even i find agressive. 
Date: Fri, Jun 3, 2016 at 3:02 PM 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023359 
Subject: RE: 
To: jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> 
Hi Jeffrey, 
As you will recall, we used this same exchange agent last year on the Calder 1031. At the time, we discussed 
the merits of using a gallery versus a commercial exchange agent and my recommendation to Leon was to use a 
gallery. I felt that there were advantages to using a commercial exchange agent instead of a gallery on the 1031 
side (e.g., less likelihood of a breach of confidentiality, IRS familiarity with CDEC in the event of an audit, 
security of funds), but that a commercial exchange agent gave us less comfort on the sales tax side. Leon did 
not want to use a gallery because he was concerned about confidentiality and he did not want to have to ask a 
gallery that he did not do much business with to act as exchange agent. 
When Leon first discussed the exchange for the Cezannes with me a few weeks ago, I asked him if he wanted 
to use the same exchange agent as last year, or if he wanted to use a gallery. I said that a gallery carried little to 
no risk on the sales tax side, but I reminded him that he had not wanted to use a gallery last year for the Calder 
because of confidentiality reasons. He said to use the same exchange agent as before, which made sense to me 
because he was extremely concerned about confidentiality with the purchase of the Cezannes. 
I will find out about sales tax audits and will let you know. The exchange agent has had a New York resale 
certificate since 2014 and has been engaged in art transactions like this since then, but I do not believe they 
have been audited. I will check, though, and I will also ask the Herrick lawyer if any of his clients who have 
done similar deals have been audited. 
Best, 
Heather 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 023360 
