and Ricardo and Malthus and Mill, until the marginalist revolution shifted focus
from objectives to the mechanics in supply, demand and price. Bioeconomics awoke
a century later, largely it seems in response to the challenge of Hamilton’s rule. Now

I will look at it too.

My term “lineage survival” is unusual. It is meant not to take sides between “kin
selection” and “group selection.” The kin selection idea was another word for
Hamilton’s rule from his doctorial thesis in 1964. It said that genes encoding
investment in close kin encode investment in likeliest sharers of those genes, and
should tend to entrench and perpetuate themselves. His condition for investment

was r)bc.r here meant relatedness: ¥% for offspring or siblings, % for nephews or

nieces or grandoffspring, and so forth. b meant benefit to the donee, and c meant
cost to the investor. The sign > means “greater than”. The cost and benefit were
measured in fitness itself, meaning chances to survive and breed. But that too meant
“inclusive fitness” where investing in kin counted as breeding when adjusted for
relatedness. The idea was that I give up some of my chances if I can increase yours
to my net genic advantage in the long run. Hamilton allowed for exceptions
including meiotic drive, which sometimes forecloses gene competition. His rule
prevailed because it made mostly good predictions. Humans and creatures in
general usually care for their own young first, if they have any, and for closely

related young if not.

Hamilton made it clear that cost c and benefit b in his hurdle rb>c respectively
meant fitness given up by the investor and fitness grained by the investee. He
further made it clear that fitness could be measured as R. A. Fisher’s “reproductive

value” V(x) published in 1930 and 1957. V(x) meant likelihood at age x of
reaching each successive age times expected offspring at that age. V(x), or Bob
Trivers’ “reproductive success” RS, which simplifies V(x) to expected remaining

offspring, is implicitly constant at the population scale unless there is population

growth (Fisher’s “Malthusian parameter”). For creatures other than us, the

Chapter 7 Petty’s Idea 2/3/16 4

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011063
