IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES

The information presented herein is confidential and proprietary, and may not be (i) used by, or on behalf of, you for any purpose other than
evaluating an initial or continued investment in Boothbay Absolute Return Strategies, LP (the “Fund”), or (ii) disclosed by, or on behalf of, you to
any third party, in each case except with the prior written consent of Boothbay Fund Management, LLC (“Boothbay”). This communication is for
information purposes only and is not intended as an offer or solicitation with respect to the purchase or sale of any security.

This letter includes forward-looking statements. Although Boothbay believes that the expectations and views reflected in such statements are
reasonable, such statements are subject to a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results, performance or
achievements to be materially different from future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements. Forward-looking statements, and the expectations and views reflected therein, expressed in this letter may change at any time, without
notice. Prospective investors are cautioned not to invest based on these forward-looking statements.

Performance figures (which include the reinvestment of dividends, capital gains and other earnings) included herein are based on unaudited
information, may be subject to adjustment and are shown net of fees/allocations and expenses. Results for individual investors may vary based on,
among other things, the timing of capital contributions and withdrawals.

An investment in the Fund is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. Past performance is not necessarily indicative of future results. There
can be no assurances that the Fund will continue to have a similar return on invested capital because, among other reasons, there may be
differences in economic and market conditions, regulatory and political climate, portfolio size, investment opportunities, expenses and structure.
Accordingly, when deciding to make an investment, potential investors are urged to review carefully all disclosure documentation, including the
Fund’s confidential private offering memorandum, and consult with their counsel and advisers.

This material is not intended to represent the rendering of accounting, tax, legal or regulatory advice. A change in the facts or circumstances of
any transaction could materially affect the accounting, tax, legal or regulatory treatment for that transaction. Nothing herein should be interpreted
to represent concentration limits, exit strategies or sector allocation guidelines, all of which are subject to change without notice.

References to the S&P500 and any other benchmark(s) referred to herein are for illustrative purposes only. Any such benchmarks are included
merely to show general trends in the markets in the periods indicated and are not intended to imply that the Fund’s portfolio is similar to any such
benchmarks either in composition or risk. Comparisons to benchmarks have limitations because natural characteristics of such benchmarks, such
as volatility, among other things, are likely to differ from those of the Fund. Boothbay does not attempt to track a benchmark and there is no
guarantee that the Fund will meet or exceed any such benchmark.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026671
