106 Teaching Minds

do exactly this: They supply generalizations when a student needs one
and cannot come up with one by himself after a prediction that he
made has failed.)

The generalization that Colby supplied was, more or less: Be enter-
taining if you want to attract followers and be listened to.

Was he right? Is this a good generalization?

The next step in thinking is: Explain your generalization. What
this means here is that I needed to understand why this might be
true. If possible, one wants to test out the new hypothesis. Fortunately
for me, I had many opportunities to speak in public over the next 40
years. I tried many different methods of teaching and lecturing. Enter-
taining always works. Colby was right.

But I said that one needs to explain why it works. This is my expla-
nation: People have trouble paying attention to someone who talks for
an hour. Human beings are not built for this. Our ancestors certainly
didn’t listen to lectures. People communicate best by asking questions
and interrupting. Since this isn’t possible in a lecture, any questions
they might ask, they ask themselves and try to answer. While they are
thinking about what a speaker says, the speaker keeps on talking. No
one can really hear a lecture, in my opinion. So, a good speaker, recog-
nizing this, does not try to make the audience do that. He makes them
laugh, he paints interesting pictures for them to ponder, he amazes
them perhaps, but he does not try to get them to, nor does he expect
them to, remember all that he has said. The less content, the more
likely they will remember. Colby knew all this. I learned it over time.
He jump-started my thinking.

By now, this new generalization of mine, together with my expla-
nation, is part of my core beliefs. But any belief can be challenged by
reality. And, any new belief generates new predictions. So I predicted
that if I was funnier when I spoke, people would appreciate what I
said more. I also predicted that if I didn’t speak much in a graduate
seminar and let students argue with one another, they would get more
out of it. After 40 years I still believe these things. But, and this is the
important part, there are nuances upon nuances about all these is-
sues in my memory. I need to explain it simply when I write or speak
about it, but when I think about it, I recall all kinds of exceptions and
caveats. I know, or at least I think I know, a great deal about speak-
ing and have lots of memories about specific successes and failures.
Thinking and learning require one to recall one’s experiences, analyze
those experiences, come up with new hypotheses about failures, make

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023852
