Federal Register/Vol. 76, No. 168/Tuesday, August 30, 2011/Rules and Regulations

54049

are required to bargain in good faith ina
genuine effort to reach a written, binding
agreement setting your terms and conditions
of employment. The union is required to
fairly represent you in bargaining and
enforcing the agreement.

“Tegal conduct will not be permitted. If
you believe your rights or the rights of others
have been violated, you should contact the
NLRB promptly to protect your rights,
generally within six months of the unlawful
activity. You may inquire about possible
violations without your employer or anyone
else being informed of the inquiry. Charges
may be filed by any person and need not be
filed by the employee directly affected by the
violation. The NLRB may order an employer
to rehire a worker fired in violation of the
law and to pay lost wages and benefits, and
may order an employer or union to cease
violating the law. Employees should seek
assistance from the nearest regional NLRB
office, which can be found on the Agency’s
Web site: http://www.nirb.gov.

You can also contact the NLRB by calling
toll-free: 1-866-667—NLRB (6572) or (TTY)
1—866-315—NLRB (1-866-315-6572) for
hearing impaired.

If you do not speak or understand English
well, you may obtain a translation of this
notice from the NLRB’s Web site or by calling
the toll-free numbers listed above.

“*The National Labor Relations Act covers
most private-sector employers. Excluded
from coverage under the NLRA are public-
sector employees, agricultural and domestic
workers, independent contractors, workers
employed by a parent or spouse, employees
of air and rail carriers covered by the Railway
Labor Act, and supervisors (although
supervisors that have been discriminated
against for refusing to violate the NLRA may
be covered).

“This is an official Government Notice and
must not be defaced by anyone.”

Subpart B—General Enforcement and
Complaint Procedures

§ 104.210 How will the Board determine
whether an employer is in compliance with
this part?

The Board has determined that
employees must be aware of their NLRA
rights in order to exercise those rights
effectively. Employers subject to this
rule are required to post the employee
notice to inform employees of their
rights. Failure to post the employee
notice may be found to interfere with,
restrain, or coerce employees in the
exercise of the rights guaranteed by
NLRA Section 7, 29 U.S.C. 157, in
violation of NLRA Section 8(a)(1), 29
U.S.C. 158(a)(1).

Normally, the Board will determine
whether an employer is in compliance
when a person files an unfair labor
practice charge alleging that the
employer has failed to post the
employee notice required under this
part. Filing a charge sets in motion the
Board’s procedures for investigating and
adjudicating alleged unfair labor

practices, and for remedying conduct
that the Board finds to be unlawful. See
NLRA Sections 10-11, 29 U.S.C. 160—
61, and 29 CFR part 102, subpart B.

§ 104.211 What are the procedures for
filing a charge?

(a) Filing charges. Any person (other
than Board personnel) may file a charge
with the Board alleging that an
employer has failed to post the
employee notice as required by this
part. A charge should be filed with the
Regional Director of the Region in
which the alleged failure to post the
required notice is occurring.

(b) Contents of charges. The charge
must be in writing and signed, and must
be sworn to before a Board agent, notary
public, or other person authorized to
administer oaths or take
acknowledgements, or contain a
declaration by the person signing it,
under penalty of perjury, that its
contents are true and correct. The
charge must include:

(1) The charging party’s full name and
address;

(2) If the charge is filed by a union,
the full name and address of any
national or international union of which
it is an affiliate or constituent unit;

(3) The full name and address of the
employer alleged to have violated this
part; and

(4) A clear and concise statement of
the facts constituting the alleged unfair
labor practice.

§ 104.212 What are the procedures to be
followed when a charge is filed alleging that
an employer has failed to post the required
employee notice?

(a) When a charge is filed with the
Board under this section, the Regional
Director will investigate the allegations
of the charge. If it appears that the
allegations are true, the Regional
Director will make reasonable efforts to
persuade the respondent employer to
post the required employee notice
expeditiously. If the employer does so,
the Board expects that there will rarely
be a need for further administrative
proceedings.

(b) If an alleged violation cannot be
resolved informally, the Regional
Director may issue a formal complaint
against the respondent employer,
alleging a violation of the notice-posting
requirement and scheduling a hearing
before an administrative law judge.
After a complaint issues, the matter will
be adjudicated in keeping with the
Board’s customary procedures. See
NLRA Sections 10 and 11, 29 U.S.C.
160, 161; 29 CFR part 102, subpart B.

§ 104.213 What remedies are available to
cure a failure to post the employee notice?

(a) If the Board finds that the
respondent employer has failed to post
the required employee notices as
alleged, the respondent will be ordered
to cease and desist from the unlawful
conduct and post the required employee
notice, as well as a remedial notice. In
some instances additional remedies may
be appropriately invoked in keeping
with the Board’s remedial authority.

(b) Any employer that threatens or
retaliates against an employee for filing
charges or testifying at a hearing
concerning alleged violations of the
notice-posting requirement may be
found to have committed an unfair labor
practice. See NLRA Section 8(a)(1) and
8(a)(4), 29 U.S.C. 158(a)(1), (4).

§ 104.214 How might other Board
proceedings be affected by failure to post
the employee notice?

(a) Tolling of statute of limitations.
When an employee files an unfair labor
practice charge, the Board may find it
appropriate to excuse the employee
from the requirement that charges be
filed within six months after the
occurrence of the allegedly unlawful
conduct if the employer has failed to
post the required employee notice
unless the employee has received actual
or constructive notice that the conduct
complained of is unlawful. See NLRA
Section 10(b), 29 U.S.C. 160(b).

(b) Noncompliance as evidence of
unlawful motive. The Board may
consider a knowing and willful refusal
to comply with the requirement to post
the employee notice as evidence of
unlawful motive in a case in which
motive is an issue.

Subpart C—Ancillary Matters

§ 104.220 What other provisions apply to
this part?

(a) The regulations in this part do not
modify or affect the interpretation of
any other NLRB regulations or policy.

(b)(1) This subpart does not impair or
otherwise affect:

(i) Authority granted by law toa
department, agency, or the head thereof;
or

(ii) Functions of the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget
relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.

(2) This subpart must be implemented
consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of
appropriations.

c) This part creates no right or
benefit, substantive or procedural,
enforceable at law or in equity by any
party against the United States, its
departments, agencies, or entities, its

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022320
