The Keys to the Kingdom Are Missing | 181

The Post-Hong Kong Documents

The NSA concern about who had access to its missing files deepened
further when NSA documents continued to surface in the press after
Snowden went to Moscow. If U.S. intelligence needed any further
evidence that someone had access to the documents, these additional
revelations provided it.

The most sensational of them was a purported document attrib-
uted to Snowden concerning the NSA hacking of the cell phone of
the German chancellor, Angela Merkel. The story was published
on October 23 on the Der Spiegel website. Appelbaum was the co-
author of the story. Even though Snowden had by now been in Rus-
sia for four months, he was cited in the story, along with unnamed
“others,” as the source for the NSA document. Snowden did not
deny it. Indeed, he took a measure of credit for the revelation, say-
ing on German TV, “What I can say is we know Angela Merkel was
monitored by the National Security Agency.” If Snowden had been
involved in the release of this document, it would be consistent with

© Kucherena’s assertion that he had access to the archive. ®

Adding to the intrigue, Poitras was apparently caught by surprise
when the Merkel story broke in Der Spiegel. She urgently texted
Snowden on what she called “background” (which ordinarily means
that a journalist will not attribute information to a source), She asked
him in the text to explain the NSA’s actions. Snowden explained to
her that Merkel was listed by her true name (and not by a code name)
in the NSA document because the German chancellor was an NSA
“target not an asset.” Presumably, Poitras would have already known
that distinction if she had the document referred to in Der Spiegel.
If the Merkel document was not among the data given to Poitras in
Hong Kong, how did it get to the authors of the Der Spiegel article?

Appelbaum, of course, had been in contact with Snowden before he
went public. He had served as Poitras’s co-interrogator of Snowden
while he was still working at the NSA in May 2013. Appelbaum
was also one of the leading supporters of WikiLeaks. Because he
was famously an advocate of revealing government secrets, it seems
unlikely that he would have delayed releasing such a bombshell
about Merkel’s phone if Snowden had given him this document

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 181 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019669
