Case 9:08-cv-80736-KAM Document 306 Entered on FLSD Docket 02/02/2015 Page 10 of 19

detail about her fictional meeting with former President Clinton, providing an elaborate
description about how Mr. Clinton and his secret service detail somehow allowed Ghislaine
Maxwell, then a novice helicopter pilot, to fly all of them to Jeffrey’s Epstein’s private island on
Epstein’s black helicopter, as well as details about the specific place at the dinner table at which
she and Mr. Clinton were seated’. Jd. Jane Doe #3 also gave this British newspaper an account
of yet another fictional meeting on the same island, but this time with former vice president Gore
and his then wife, Tipper, providing specific details purportedly to enhance the value of her
fictional story: “The Gores seemed like a beautiful couple when I met them... Jeffrey [Epstein]
didn’t ask me to give him a massage... I was planning on voting for him when I turned 18. I

thought he was awesome.” On information and belief, Prof. Dershowitz represents to the Court

therein. A copy of the publication, or a link to the article, will be provided to the Court at the
Court’s request.

> The article states, in relevant part: “On one occasion,[Jane Doe #3] adds, Epstein did invite two
young brunettes to a dinner which he gave on his Caribbean island for Mr. Clinton shortly after
he left office. But, as far as she knows, the ex-President did not take the bait. “‘I’d have been
about 17 at the time,’ [Jane Doe #3] says. ‘I flew to the Caribbean with Jeffrey and then
Ghislaine Maxwell went to pick up Bill [Clinton] in a huge black helicopter that Jeffrey had
bought her. She’d always wanted to fly and Jeffrey paid for her to take lessons, and I remember
she was very excited because she got her licence around the first year we met. I used to get
frightened flying with her but Bill had the Secret Service with him and I remember him talking
about what a good job she did. I only ever met Bill twice but Jeffrey had told me that they were
good friends. I asked, ‘How come?’ and he laughed and said, ‘He owes me some favours.’
Maybe he was just joking but it constantly surprised me that people with as much to lose as Bill
and [Prince] Andrew weren’t more careful. Bill must have known about Jeffrey’s girls... We all
dined together that night. Jeffrey was at the head of the table. Bill was at his left. I sat across
from him. [], Ghislaine’s bonde British assistant, sat at my right. Ghislaine was at Bill’s left and
at the left of Ghislaine there were two olive-skinned brunettes who’d flown with us from New
York. I’d never met them before. I’d say they were no older than 17, very innocent-looking...
Maybe Jeffrey thought they would entertain Bill, but I saw no evidence that he was interested in
them. He and Jeffrey and Ghislaine seemed to have a very good relationship. Bill was very
funny. He made me laugh a few times. And he and Jeffrey Ghislaine told blokey jokes and the
brunettes listed politely and giggled. After dinner I gave Jeffrey an erotic massage. I don’t
remember seeing Bill again on the trip but I assume Ghislaine flew him back.’”

10

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010744
