24

are good and bad popularly elected leaders, there are good and bad
autocrats. THE SIGNAL fact of the Arab world at the beginning of
this year of democratic revolution was that, for the most part, it
encompassed few of these subtleties and apparent contradictions.
Middle Eastern societies had long since moved beyond basic needs of
food and security to the point where individual freedom could easily
be contemplated. After all, over the past half century, Arabs from the
Maghreb to the Persian Gulf experienced epochal social, economic,
technological and demographic transformation: it was only the
politics that lagged behind. And while good autocrats there were, the
reigning model was sterile and decadent national-security regimes,
deeply corrupt and with sultanic tendencies. These leaders sought to
perpetuate their rule through offspring: sons who had not risen
through the military or other bureaucracies, and thus had no
legitimacy. Marcus Aurelius was one thing; Tunisia’s Zine el-
Abidine Ben Ali, Egypt’s Hosni Mubarak and Syria’s Bashar al-
Assad, quite another. Certainly, the Arab Spring has proved much:
that there is no otherness to Arab civilization, that Arabs yearn for
universal values just as members of other societies do. But as to
difficult questions regarding the evolution of political order and
democracy, it has in actuality proved very little. To wit, no good
autocrats were overthrown. The regimes that have fallen so far had
few saving graces in any larger moral or philosophical sense, and the
wonder is how they lasted as long as they did, even as their
tumultuous demise was sudden and unexpected. Yet, the issues
about which Mill and Berlin cared so passionately must still be
addressed. For in some places in the Arab world, and particularly in
Asia, there have been autocrats who can, in fact, be spoken of in the
same breath as Marcus Aurelius. So at what point is it right or
practical to oust these rulers? It is quite possible to force through
political change, which leads, contrary to aims, into a more deeply

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_032194
