TT

Promote Transparency

¢ Think tanks should—in partnership with universities—jointly and regularly
produce summaries of difficulties in China-related research (access to regions,
agencies, persons, visas, etc.) and make these available to each other and to
US officials. The latter, in turn, should be mindful of the reciprocal nature of
think-tank work and how the inability of American scholars to secure meetings
with Chinese officials and scholars when Chinese scholars are afforded such
privileges is harmful to the stability of the overall relationship.

e Think tanks should publicly disclose the source of funding for events, publications,
and other activities. If think-tank leaders elect to solicit funds from Hong Kong
or mainland Chinese sources, they should be transparent about from where the
money came and how it is being used, to ensure that there is no opportunity for
the Chinese funder to harmfully affect the research agenda or outcome.

Promote Integrity

e¢ A Code of Conduct should be worked out among US think tanks—perhaps in
conjunction with American university China studies centers—to establish “do’s and
don'ts” in their exchanges with Chinese institutions. Once this is worked out among
American institutions, then counterparts in other democratic countries should also
be approached with an eye toward establishing multilateral Codes of Conduct.

Promote Reciprocity

e US think-tank representatives—the presidents and senior China scholars—should
arrange a meeting with the Chinese ambassador to express their collective
perspectives on these issues and call for changes. Such a meeting could be
usefully coupled with a jointly signed letter of concern by directors of all major
US think tanks.

e Ifany member of any think-tank delegation is denied a visa, the delegation
should cancel the trip. It sends a profoundly wrong signal to proceed, if China
is able to control the composition of a delegation. The think tank should also
consider a moratorium on Chinese officials visiting or speaking at the think tank
until the visa issues are resolved. The same principle may be applied to Chinese
think tanks that refuse to receive American scholars for visits. In such cases,
US think tanks should seriously consider not hosting residential stays for Chinese
visiting scholars from institutions that do not offer parallel opportunities for
American scholars in China. (At present, only the Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences and the Shanghai Institute of International Studies permit foreign
scholars in residence.)

Section5

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020536
