did not extinguish innovation as efficiently as it was extinguished among our forebears in
prehistory for thousands of centuries.”®

That is why I say that prehistoric people, at least, were barely people. Both before
and after becoming perfectly human both physiologically and in their mental potential,
they were monstrously inhuman in the actual content of their thoughts. I’m not referring
to their crimes or even their cruelty as such: Those are all too human. Nor could mere
cruelty have reduced progress that effectively. Things like “the thumbscrew and the
stake / For the glory of the Lord” ?° were for reining in the few deviants who had
somehow escaped mental standardization, which would normally have taken effect long
before they were in danger of inventing heresies. From the earliest days of thinking
onward, children must have been cornucopias of creative ideas and paragons of critical
thought— otherwise, as I said, they could not have learned language or other complex
culture. Yet, as Jacob Bronowski stressed in The Ascent of Man:

For most of history, civilisations have crudely ignored that enormous
potential... . [C]hildren have been asked simply to conform to the image
of the adult... . The girls are little mothers in the making. The boys are
little herdsmen. They even carry themselves like their parents.

But of course, they weren’t just “asked” to ignore their enormous potential and
conform faithfully to the image fixed by tradition: They were somehow trained to be
psychologically unable to deviate from it. By now, it is hard for us even to conceive of
the kind of relentless, finely tuned oppression required to reliably extinguish, in
everyone, the aspiration to progress and replace it with dread and revulsion at any novel
behavior. In such a culture, there can have been no morality other than conformity and
obedience, no other identity than one’s status in a hierarchy, no mechanisms of
cooperation other than punishment and reward. So everyone had the same aspiration in
life: to avoid the punishments and get the rewards. In a typical generation, no one
invented anything, because no one aspired to anything new, because everyone had
already despaired of improvement being possible. Not only was there no technological
innovation or theoretical discovery, there were no new worldviews, styles of art, or
interests that could have inspired those. By the time individuals grew up, they had in
effect been reduced to Als, programmed with the exquisite skills needed to enact that
static culture and to inflict on the next generation their inability even to consider doing
otherwise.

A present-day AI is not a mentally disabled AGI, so it would not be harmed by
having its mental processes directed still more narrowly to meeting some predetermined
criterion. “Oppressing” Siri with humiliating tasks may be weird, but it is not immoral
nor does it harm Siri. On the contrary, all the effort that has ever increased the
capabilities of Als has gone into narrowing their range of potential “thoughts.” For
example, take chess engines. Their basic task has not changed from the outset: Any
chess position has a finite tree of possible continuations; the task is to find one that leads
to a predefined goal (a checkmate, or failing that, a draw). But the tree is far too big to

8 Matt Ridley, in The Rational Optimist, rightly stresses the positive effect of population on the rate of
progress. But that has never yet been the biggest factor: Consider, say, ancient Athens versus the rest of the
world at the time.

*° Alfred, Lord Tennyson, Zhe Revenge (1878).

87

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016890
