The Russians Are Coming | 221

of the Russian Federation in 2000, he made no secret that his goal
was to prevent the United States from obtaining what he termed
“global hegemony.” His logic was clear. He judged the breakup of
the Soviet Union in 1991 to be, as he put it, “a geopolitical disaster.”
He argued that the breakup had provided the United States with the
means to become the singular dominant power in the world.

He sought to prevent that outcome by moving aggressively to
redress this loss of Russian power. He upgraded Russia’s nuclear
force, modernized Russia’s elite military units, and greatly strength-
ened Russia’s relations with China. The last measure was essential
because China was Russia’s principal ally in opposing the extension
of American dominance. Yet there was still an immense gap between
them and the United States in communications intelligence.

Since the breakup of the Soviet Union, the NSA had continued to
build up its technological capabilities, while Russia teetered on the
edge of collapse in the early 1990s. But as previously mentioned,
the NSA’‘s legal mandate had been limited by Congress to foreign
interceptions (at least prior to 9/11). As a result, it was required to

© separate out domestic from foreign surveillance, a massive process ©
that not only was time-consuming but could generate dissidence
within the ranks of American intelligence. It also could not legally
use its surveillance machinery to monitor the telephones and Inter-
net activities of the tens of thousands of civilian contractors who ran
its computer networks—at least not unless the FBI began an inves-
tigation into them.

Here the Russian intelligence services had a clear advantage. They
had a lawful mandate to intercept any and all domestic communica-
tions. In fact, a compulsory surveillance system called by its Russian
acronym SORM had been incorporated into Russian law in 1995.
It requires the FSB and seven other Russian security agencies to
monitor all forms of domestic communications including telephones
(SORM-1), e-mails and other Internet activity (SORM-z2), and com-
puter data storage of billing information (SORM-3). Not only did
Russia run a nationwide system of Internet filtering in 2013, but it
required its telecommunication companies to furnish it with world-
wide data.

The NSA also had to deal with many peripheral issues other than

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.indd 221 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019709
