Esa Origins 7 February 24 — 26, 2017
PROJECT An Origins Project Scientific Workshop
Challenges of Artificial Intelligence:

Envisioning and Addressing Adverse Outcomes

ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY

In early prototypes, information was provided visually to the healthcare provider. However, it was
quickly discovered that if audible feedback was provided — as if the Al device was a consultant working
with the healthcare provider and the patient — the consultations were more efficient; patient
satisfaction levels were higher; and outcomes were more positive.

A large segment of health insurance sector sees early wins in supporting the technology, through the
ability to decrease insurance claims through efficient and preventative interventions, while maintaining
high premiums. As such, they push for early and widespread adoption of the technology. This is further
supported by the Department of Health and Human Services as it hits a number of goals, including
increasing health and well-being while reducing healthcare costs.

With the success of early implementations, new Al-based technologies are rapidly implemented into
subsequent generations of Al-consult. However, the commercial sector developing and using Al-
consult has shifted dramatically from the technology’s initial beginnings.

As the technology began to mature and lead to substantial savings in healthcare costs traditional
healthcare providers and health insurance companies begin to suffer. They resist the use of Al-consult
through a combination of lobbying for new policies and regulations limiting use, to marketing
campaigns persuading people of the critical importance of human interaction in healthcare. They forge
links with a number of advocacy groups opposed to widespread automation in society, and promote
the idea of Al-consult undermining human dignity and jobs creation. However, the health benefits and
cost savings of Al-consult are so compelling that these campaigns gain little traction. As a result,
companies that can not adapt, loose market share, and in some cases collapse.

In contrast, a number of healthcare companies, and a growing number of tech companies, take
advantage of the rapidly changing healthcare environment to promote preventative care using Al-
consult, and to take advantage of cost-effective healthcare approaches that lead to demonstrably
better outcomes than non Al-consult based approaches. As a result, by 2030, the healthcare provider
and insurance sector has undergone a disruptive transformation. What is especially notable is the
number of technology companies expanding into the healthcare business, and either partnering with
well-established healthcare providers, or forcing them out of the market. This shift in key players leads
to a marked change in approaches and attitudes toward healthcare provision.

By 2030 Al-consult systems have the ability to monitor their environment visually as well as audibly,
accurately picking up on and interpreting body language and micro-expressions. They have access to
rapidly growing databases of genetic profiles; proteome, microbiome and other ohmic profiles;
purchasing, eating and lifestyle habits; medical, insurance, financial and legal histories; social media;
and location, movement, and other dynamic activity/physiology histories (through the growing use of
cloud-based quantified self services). Despite privacy, legal and social justice concerns over Al access to

18

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014714
