Table of Contents

board of Cleveland Clinic Florida, a non-profit, multispecialty academic hospital; and as a member of the board of the Cleveland Clinic. Mr. Maroone
previously served on the Cleveland Clinic Board of Trustees and was co-chairman of the Florida Leadership Board of the Cleveland Clinic. He holds a B.S.
degree in small business management from the University of Colorado Boulder. Mr. Maroone was selected to serve on our Board because of his advisory
experience and his extensive experience in the automotive retail industry

INDEPENDENCE STATUS

The listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange require that, subject to specified exceptions, each member of a listed company’s audit
committee, and compensation committee, and nominating committee be independent and that audit committee members also satisfy independence criteria
set forth in Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act.

Our Board has determined that each of our non-employee directors, including our director nominees Dan Quayle and Gregory Sullivan, meets
the requirements to be an independent director. In making this determination, our Board considered the relationships that each non-employee director has
with Carvana and all other facts and circumstances that our Board deemed relevant in determining their independence, including beneficial ownership of
our Class A common stock.

CONTROLLED COMPANY STATUS

For purposes of the corporate governance rules of the NYSE, we are a “controlled company.” Controlled companies under those rules are
companies of which more than 50% of the voting power for the election of directors is held by an individual, a group, or another company. The Garcia
Parties beneficially own more than 50% of the combined voting power of Carvana Co. Accordingly, we expect to be eligible for, but do not currently intend
to take advantage of, certain exemptions from the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. Specifically, as a “controlled company,” we would not
be required to have:

* amajority of independent directors,

* anominating and corporate governance committee composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the
committee’s purpose and responsibilities,

* acompensation committee composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and
responsibilities, or

* an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and governance and compensation committees.

-10-

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024318
