sexually assaulted these girls, he had committed several serious torts against them and would be
liable to them for appropriate damages. See Preceding Undisputed Facts. Because of the
outrageousness of Epstein’s sexual abuse of minor girls, Edwards reasonably expected that
Epstein would also be liable for punitive damages to the girls. Because Edwards could show that
Epstein had molested children for years and designed a complex premeditated scheme to procure
different minors everyday to satisfy his addiction to sex with minors, the punitive damages
would have to be sufficient to deter him from this illegal conduct that he had engaged in daily for
years. Epstein was and is a billionaire. See Complaint, §49 (referring to “Palm Beach
Billionaire”); see also Epstein Deposition, February 17, 2010, at 172-176 (Deposition
Attachment #7) (taking the Fifth when asked whether he is a billionaire). Accordingly, Edwards
reasonably believed the punitive damages that would have to be awarded against Epstein would
have been substantial enough to punish him severely enough for his past conduct as well as deter
him from repeating his offenses in the future. See Edwards Affidavit, Exhibit “N” at 719.

85. On July 6, 2010, rather than face trial for the civil suits that had been filed against
him by L.M., E.W., and Jane Doe, defendant Epstein settled the cases against him. The terms of
the settlement are confidential. The settlement amounts are highly probative in the instant action
as Epstein bases his claims that Edwards was involved in the Ponzi scheme on Epstein's inability
to ‘atte the L.M., E.W., and Jane Doe cases for minimal value. His continued inability to
settle the claims for “minimal value” after the Ponzi scheme was uncovered would be highly
probative in discrediting any causal relationship between the Ponzi scheme and Edwards’s
settlement negotiations. See Edwards Affidavit, Exhibit “N” at 21.

Edwards Non-Involvement in Fraud by Scott Rothstein
36

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013354
