decisions change if you could never retire?” are no longer hypothetical. Millions of people have seen
their savings portfolios fall 40% or more in value and are now looking for options C and D. Can they
redistribute retirement throughout life to make it more affordable? Can they relocate a few months per
year to a place like Costa Rica or Thailand to multiply the lifestyle output of their decreased savings?
Sell their services to companies in the UK to earn in a stronger currency? The answer to all of them is,
more than ever, yes.

The concept of lifestyle design as a replacement for multi-staged career planning is sound. It’s more
flexible and allows you to test different lifestyles without committing to a 10- or 20-year retirement plan
that can fail due to market fluctuations outside of your control. People are open to exploring alternatives
(and more forgiving of others who do the same), as many of the other options—the once “safe” options
—have failed.

When everything and everyone is failing, what is the cost of a little experimentation outside of the
norm? Most often, nothing. Flash forward to 2011; is a job interviewer asking about that unusual gap
year?

“Everyone was getting laid off and I had a once-in-a-lifetime chance to travel around the world. It
was incredible.”

If anything, they’ll ask you how to do the same. The scripts in this book still work.

Facebook and LinkedIn launched in the post-2000 dot-com “depression.” Other recession-born babies
include Monopoly, Apple, Cliff Bar, Scrabble, KFC, Domino’s Pizza, FedEx, and Microsoft. This is no
coincidence, as economic downturns produce discounted infrastructure, outstanding freelancers at
bargain prices, and rock-bottom advertising deals—all impossible when everyone is optimistic.

Whether a yearlong sabbatical, a new business idea, reengineering your life within the corporate beast,
or dreams you’ve postponed for “some day,’ there has never been a better time for testing the
uncommon.

What’s the worst that could happen?

I encourage you to remember this often-neglected question as you begin to see the infinite possibilities
outside of your current comfort zone. This period of collective panic is your big chance to dabble.

It’s been an honor to share the last two years with incredible readers around the world, and I hope you
enjoy this new edition as much as I enjoyed putting it together.

I am, and will continue to be, a humble student of you all.

Un abrazo fuerte ,

TIM FERRISS

San Franciso, California
April 21, 2009

First and Foremost

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013803
