Film director Roman Polanski is not the only convicted pedophile to walk free this month and return to a
life of privilege. On Wednesday, hedge fund manager Jeffrey Epstein completes his one-year house
arrest in Palm Beach, which has been even less arduous than Polanski’s time at a Swiss ski chalet.

Watch Jeffrey Epstein Storm Out of a Deposition When Asked About His Penis

During Epstein’s term of “house arrest,” he made several trips each month to his New York home and
his private Caribbean island. In the earlier stage of his sentence for soliciting prostitution with a
minor—13 months in the Palm Beach Stockade—he was allowed out to his office each day. Meanwhile,
Epstein has settled more than a dozen lawsuits brought by the underage girls who were recruited to
perform “massages” at his Palm Beach mansion. Seven victims reached a last-minute deal last week,
days before a scheduled trial; each received well over $1 million—an amount that will hardly dent
Epstein’s $2 billion net worth.

* Conchita Sarnoff: Epstein Faces Sex Traffic Probe

* The Billionaire Pedphile's Sex Den

With that, the known victims of Epstein’s sexual compulsion have been officially silenced, and the case
against him is closed unless new ones come forward. According to banking sources, he has been moving
assets out of the U.S. and may well follow Polanski into a luxurious exile.

But the question remains: Did Epstein’s wealth and social connections—former President Bill Clinton;
Prince Andrew; former Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak; New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson; and
former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers were just a few of the prominent passengers on his private
jets—allow him to receive only a slap on the wrist for crimes that carry a mandatory 20-year sentence?
Was he able, with his limitless assets and heavy-hitting lawyers—Alan Dershowitz, Gerald Lefcourt,
Roy Black, Kenneth Starr, Guy Lewis, and Martin Weinberger among them—to escape equal justice?

Epstein Faces Sex-Traffic Probe
http://www.thedailyb...obref=obnetwork

The Justice Department is investigating Jeffrey Epstein for child trafficking, The Daily Beast has
learned—and has widened the scope of its probe to include a famous modeling agency.

Hedge-fund manager Jeffrey Epstein completed his sentence for soliciting prostitution with a minor last
week. But it appears his problems may not be over. Now The Daily Beast has learned that:

* Federal investigators continue to investigate Epstein’s activities, to see whether there is evidence of
child trafficking—a far more serious charge than the two in his non-prosecution agreement, the
arrangement between Epstein and the Department of Justice allowing him to plead guilty to lower-level
state crimes. Trafficking can carry a 20-year sentence.

¢ The FBI is also investigating Epstein’s friend Jean Luc Brunel, whose MC2 modeling agency appears
to have been a source of girls from overseas who ended up on Epstein’s private jets.

Because Epstein’s predatory habits stretch back many years and involved dozens of young-looking girls,
there may well be more evidence to uncover.

Under the concept of double jeopardy, Epstein can no longer be prosecuted for any of the charges

covered by his non-prosecution agreement, in which he agreed to serve a short term of incarceration,
fund the civil suits of named victims, and register as a sex offender. The victims who accepted cash

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022255
