I am not spending more money to get pennies on the dollar—these costs are inevitable, so I
capitalize on them. This alone gets me a free round-trip international ticket each three months.

2. Purchase tickets far in advance (three months or more) or last minute, and aim for both departure
and return between Tues day and Thursday.

Long-term travel planning turns me off and can be expensive if plans change, so I opt for
purchasing all tickets in the last four or five days prior to target departure. The value of empty
seats is $0 as soon as the flight takes off, so true last-minute seats are cheap.

Use Orbitz (www.orbitz.com) and www.kayak.com first. Fix the departure and return dates
between Tuesday and Thursday. Then look at prices for alternative departure dates each of three
days into the past and each of three days into the future. Using the cheapest departure date, do the
same with the return dates to find the cheapest combination. Check this price against the fares on
the website of the airline itself. Then begin bidding on www.priceline.com at 50% of the better of
the two, working up in $50 increments until you get a better price or realize it’s not possible.

3. Consider buying one ticket to an international hub and then an ongoing ticket with a cheap local
airline.

If going to Europe on a tight budget, you could get three tickets. One free Southwest ticket (from
transferring AMEX points) from CA to JFK, the cheapest ticket to Heathrow in London, and then
an iibercheap ticket on either Ryanair or EasyJet to a final destination. I have paid as little as $10
to go from London to Berlin or London to Spain. That is not a typo. Local airlines will often offer
seats on flights for just the cost of taxes and gasoline. To Central or South American destinations,
Pll often look at local flights from Panama or international flights from Miami.

When More Is Less: Cutting the Clutter

Human beings have the capacity to learn to want almost any conceivable material object.
Given, then, the emergence of a modern industrial culture capable of producing almost
anything, the time is ripe for opening the storehouse of infinite need! ... It is the modern
Pandora’s box, and its plagues are loose upon the world.

—JULES HENRY

To be free, to be happy and fruitful, can only be attained through sacrifice of many common
but overestimated things

— ROBERT HENRI

I know the son of one deca-millionaire, a personal friend of Bill Gates, who now manages private

investments and ranches. He has accumulated an assortment of beautiful homes over the last decade,
each with full-time cooks, servants, cleaners, and support staff. How does he feel about having a home
in each time zone? It’s a pain in the ass! He feels like he’s working for his staff, who spend more time in
his homes than he does.

Extended travel is the perfect excuse to reverse the damage of years of consuming as much as you can
afford. It’s time to get rid of clutter disguised as necessities before you drag a five-piece Samsonite set
around the world. That is hell on earth.

I’m not going to tell you to walk around in a robe and sandals scowling at people who have
televisions. I hate that kashi-crunching holier-than-thou stuff. Turning you into a possession-less scribe

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013963
