proponents and detractors of any given power technology to make their cases — few of them take externalities (costs to the
environment or to public health, for example) into account. And nuclear power’s externalities could exceed those for any
other form of power generation except coal.

That’s why we’re reducing coal usage — if we had a strong climate policy it would be gone in a couple of deades, and
nuclear should be right behind it. It’s likely that no new nuclear plants will be built before true renewables are able to take the
place of scary, highly damaging energy sources.

Which brings us full circle: the new proponents of nuclear power say that since nuclear power is arguably preferable to coal,
maybe we should subsidize the building of new plants.

If those were the only options, maybe that argument would be a sound one. But they’re not. Energy efficiency (remember
that?), natural gas (imperfect, yes, but improvable) and wind are all cheaper. Even solar is already less expensive than
nuclear power in good locations.

Some studies show that renewables can generate 80 percent of our electricity in 2050, using current technologies, while
reducing carbon emissions from the electric sector by 80 percent. Climate change fears should be driving not old and
disproven technologies but renewable ones, which are more practical. These technologies remain relatively small — non-
hydro renewables were around 5 percent of the total last year — but they’re growing so fast (wind and solar use have
quadrupled in the last five years) that just this week the chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission predicted
that solar power could soon begin to double every two years.

Utilities are afraid that solar power will be to the electrical grid what PCs were to mainframes, or e-mail to the Postal Service:

a technology that will simply kill its predecessors. Coal and nuclear power are both doomed, and the profit-making power
grid with it. That’s all to our benefit.

Back to top

Pipeline-Capacity Squeeze Reroutes Crude Oil
Russell Gold — Wall Street Journal

More crude oil is moving around the U.S. on trucks, barges and trains than at any point since the government began keeping
records in 1981, as the energy industry devises ways to get around a pipeline-capacity shortage to take petroleum from new
wells to refineries.

The improvised approach is creating opportunities for transportation companies even as it strains roads and regulators. And
itis a precursor to what may be a larger change: the construction of more than $40 billion in oil pipelines now under way or

planned for the next few years, according to energy adviser Wood Mackenzie.

We are in effect re-plumbing the country, says Curt Anastasio, chief executive of NuStar Energy LP, NS +0.58% a pipeline
company in San Antonio. Oil is flowing in different directions and from new places.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028625
