Mr. Lefcourt said the police were wrong to have released the report so soon, especially
without correcting information that later proved wrong. He cited his assertion that one
accuser had lied about her age, adding that she had also been arrested on drug charges
and had been fired by her employer for stealing.

“What I’m trying to focus on,” Mr. Lefcourt said, “is, What’s motivating the selective
and misleading release of information to the public?”

Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company

New York Times — 06/30/08

Financier Starts Sentence in Prostitution Case -NYTimes.com Page 1| of 4 ge 1 of 4
July 1, 2008

Financier Starts Sentence in Prostitution Case

By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

The bad news arrived by phone last week on Little St. James Island, the palm-fringed
Xanadu in the Caribbean where Jeffrey E. Epstein, adviser to billionaires, lives in
secluded splendor.

Report to the Palm Beach County jail, the caller, Mr. Epstein’s lawyer, said.

So over the weekend Mr. Epstein quit his pleasure dome, with its staff of 70 and its
flamingo-stocked lagoon, and flew to Florida. On Monday morning, he turned himself in
and began serving 18 months for soliciting prostitution.

“T respect the legal process,” Mr. Epstein, 55, said by phone as he prepared to leave his
<p al

BS Df DIS 2S DIS Ig OIC BIS DIS 2S ik DIS IC 24C BIS DIS 54S 2k DIS ig DIC BIS DIS DIC 2k DIC Ig 24S BIC DIS 3S DC DIC Ok DIC BIS DIC SIC 2g DIC 2g 24C IS OIC 51S Df DIC 2k 24K IS 2IK 2S 2fe DIC 2k OIC Ik 2k 2k

The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of

Jeffrey Epstein

Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited
and may be unlawful. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and
destroy this communication and all copies thereof,
including all attachments.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021774
