consider whether the case involves a possibly widespread
industry practice that should be addressed, whether the
case involves a recidivist, and whether the matter gives SEC
an opportunity to be visible in a community that might not
otherwise be familiar with SEC or the protections afforded
by the securities laws.

For more information about the Enforcement
Division’s procedures concerning investigations, enforce-
ment actions, and cooperation with other regulators, see
the Enforcement Manual at http://www.sec.gov/divisions/

enforce.shtml.

Self-Reporting, Cooperation, and
Remedial Efforts

While the conduct underlying any FCPA investiga-
tion is obviously a fundamental and threshold consider-
ation in deciding what, if any, action to take, both DOJ
and SEC place a high premium on self-reporting, along
with cooperation and remedial efforts, in determining the

appropriate resolution of FCPA matters.

Criminal Cases

Under DOJ’s Principles of Federal Prosecution of
Business Organizations, federal prosecutors consider a
company’s cooperation in determining how to resolve a
corporate criminal case. Specifically, prosecutors consider
whether the company made a voluntary and timely dis-
closure as well as the company’s willingness to provide rel-
evant information and evidence and identify relevant actors
inside and outside the company, including senior execu-
tives. In addition, prosecutors may consider a company’s
remedial actions, including efforts to improve an existing
compliance program or appropriate disciplining of wrong-
doers.*? A company’s remedial measures should be mean-
ingful and illustrate its recognition of the seriousness of the
misconduct, for example, by taking steps to implement the
personnel, operational, and organizational changes neces-
sary to establish an awareness among employees that crimi-
nal conduct will not be tolerated.?*

The Principles of Federal Prosecution similarly provide

that prosecutors may consider an individual’s willingness

Guiding Principles
of Enforcement

to cooperate in deciding whether a prosecution should
be undertaken and how it should be resolved. Although a
willingness to cooperate will not, by itself, generally relieve
a person of criminal liability, it may be given “serious con-
sideration” in evaluating whether to enter into a plea agree-
ment with a defendant, depending on the nature and value
of the cooperation offered”

The US. Sentencing Guidelines similarly take into
account an individual defendant’s cooperation and volun-
tary disclosure. Under § 5K1.1, a defendant’s cooperation,
if sufficiently substantial, may justify the government filing
a motion for a reduced sentence. And under § 5K2.16, a
defendant’s voluntary disclosure of an offense prior to its
discovery—if the offense was unlikely to have been discov-
ered otherwise—may warrant a downward departure in
certain circumstances.

Chapter 8 of the Sentencing Guidelines, which gov-
erns the sentencing of organizations, takes into account an
organization’s remediation as part of an “effective compli-
ance and ethics program.” One of the seven elements of
such a program provides that after the detection of crimi-
nal conduct, “the organization shall take reasonable steps
to respond appropriately to the criminal conduct and to
prevent further similar criminal conduct, including mak-
ing any necessary modifications to the organization’s
compliance and ethics program.” Having an effective
compliance and ethics program may lead to a three-point
reduction in an organization’s culpability score under
§ 8C2.5, which affects the fine calculation under the
Guidelines. Similarly, an organization’s self-reporting,
cooperation, and acceptance of responsibility may lead to
fine reductions under § 8C2.5(g) by decreasing the culpa-
bility score. Conversely, an organization will not qualify
for the compliance program reduction when it unreason-

ably delayed reporting the offense.” Similar to § 5K1.1

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022556

