suggests a single species, although the axiom only said population. The ants and the
picnickers can compete for the lunch, but they cannot bargain for it. The bar in Star
Wars is a great gag because it thumbs its nose at this home truth. We converge in

taste for the hilarious.

I will add the biological imperative as a separate axiom later, although much of that
at least may be implicit in the first one of natural causality. We hate unnecessary
axioms, from good Occamite principle, but we hate unsupported inference or

question-begging worse.

I spell out the axiom of mortality and reproduction because I know I’m heading
towards Petty’s insight and next generation theory. Of course we design foundations
to support what we want on top. It seems to me that my axioms mention nothing
about rationality, whatever that might mean, except in the sense of assumed
convergence of predictions to outcomes. And that assumption itself might not be
critical. What seems critical that is the predictions should converge to a known
function of outcomes. If they converge to something predictably overoptimistic or
overpessimistic, we're still in business. Lacking even that, economic science is

stillborn. We can’t predict chaos.

That’s an example of the principle that axioms need not be strictly true. They must
be true enough. We're still in business if God intervenes a little here and there. Much
more than that, and the convergent prediction axiom runs into the problem of

predicting the mind of God.

The two convergence axioms, of tastes and predictions, are implicit in all
microeconomics. “Micro”, as economists call it, is about supply meeting demand at
price equilibrium. This insight was the main theme of the marginalist revolution. It’s
exactly what can’t happen without convergent tastes and predictions. It’s exactly
why the bar in Star Wars is a hoot. Ants find price equilibria in ant markets, and

people in people markets. Ants and people find no meeting of the minds. Then if

Chapter 3: Foundations 1/11/16 6

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010977
