Win, Place and Show: The only country | can

The problem of Spain find that's In worse
shape than Spain Is:

Number of dwellings to population Greece
Non-financial corporate debt to GDP Ireland
Corporate sector debt to cash flaw Portugal
Construction sector debt/assets None
Banking sector branches per 1,000 people Nene
Reliance on foreign capital (Net Int. Inv. Pos.) Ireland, Portugal
Real estate as %s of household assets None
Housing overhang (as per CEPS) Ireland
Commercial RE exposure % of bank assets Nene
Encumbered banking system assets, % Greece
Word Bank laber rigidity, Europe Nene
Intra-European real effective exchange rate Italy
Shadow economy, % of GDP, OECD Italy, Greece
Unemployment rate None
Production time per unit Italy
Reliance on ECE to finance sovereign debt None
Bank lending te HH/NFC, last 12 months None

AANFC = households and non-financial corporations

Sources: (MF, OECD, EU, World Bank, CEPS

Michael Cembalest
Chief Investment Officer

[a] Example: here’s a link to a 2007 article by Austan Goolsbee, former Chairman of the Council of Economic advisors and a member
of the Obama Cabinet. Goolsbee praises the benefits of subprime lending and related affordable housing policies, mocks Congress for
holding hearings on the subject and cites Federal Reserve papers in saying that the “mortgage market has become more perfect, not
more irresponsible”. Some things are only clear in hindsight. http://www.nytimes.com/2007/03/29/business/29scene.html? r=2

Sources

“States of Bankruptcy, Part I: The Coming State Pensions Crisis”, Joint Economic Committee Republicans, Representative Kevin
Brady and Senator Jim DeMint, December 8, 2011

“The Trillion Dollar Gap, Underfunded State Retirement Systems and the Roads to Reform”, Pew Center, February 2010

“Fiscal Policy in a Depressed Economy”, DeLong (Berkeley) and Summers (Harvard), March 20, 2012

Moody’s US Municipal Bond Defaults and Recoveries, 1970-2011

IMF Country Report 11/216. “Spain: Selected Issues”, July 2011

The material contained herein is intended as a general market commentary. Opinions expressed herein are those of Michael Cembalest and may differ from those of
other J.P. Morgan employees and affiliates. This information in no way constitutes J.P. Morgan research and should not be treated as such. Further, the views
expressed herein may differ from that contained in J.P. Morgan research reports. The above summary/prices/quotes/statistics have been obtained from sources deemed
to be reliable, but we do not guarantee their accuracy or completeness, any yield referenced is indicative and subject to change. Past performance is not a guarantee of
future results. References to the performance or character of our portfolios generally refer to our Balanced Model Portfolios constructed by J.P. Morgan. It is a proxy
for client performance and may not represent actual transactions or investments in client accounts. The model portfolio can be implemented across brokerage or
managed accounts depending on the unique objectives of each client and is serviced through distinct legal entities licensed for specific activities. Bank, trust and
investment management services are provided by JP Morgan Chase Bank, NA, and its affiliates. Securities are offered through J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (JPMS),
Member NYSE, FINRA and SIPC, and its affiliates globally as local legislation permits. Securities products purchased or sold through JPMS are not insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC); are not deposits or other obligations of its bank or thrift affiliates and are not guaranteed by its bank or thrift
offiliates; and are subject to investment risks, including possible loss of the principal invested. Not all investment ideas referenced are suitable for all investors. Speak
with your J.P. Morgan Representative concerning your personal situation. This material is not intended as an offer or solicitation for the purchase or sale of any
financial instrument. Private Investments may engage in leveraging and other speculative practices that may increase the risk of investment loss, can be highly illiquid,
are not required to provide periodic pricing or valuations to investors and may involve complex tax structures and delays in distributing important tax information.
Typically such investment ideas can only be offered to suitable investors through a confidential offering memorandum which fully describes all terms, conditions, and
risks.

IRS Circular 230 Disclosure: JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its affiliates do not provide tax advice. Accordingly, any discussion of U.S. tax matters contained herein
(including any attachments) is not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, in connection with the promotion, marketing or recommendation by anyone
unaffiliated with JPMorgan Chase & Co. of any of the matters addressed herein or for the purpose of avoiding U.S. tax-related penalties. Note that J.P. Morgan is not
a licensed insurance provider.

© 2012 JPMorgan Chase & Co; All rights reserved

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025240
