It’s an old, old story, with many well-known chapters in evolutionary history.
Most mammals can synthesize their own vitamin C, but primates, having opted for a diet
composed largely of fruit, lost the innate ability. We are now obligate ingesters of
vitamin C, but not obligate frugivores like our primate cousins, since we have opted for
technology that allows us to make, and take, vitamins as needed. The self-perpetuating
patterns that we call human beings are now dependent on clothes, cooked food, vitamins,
vaccinations, .. . credit cards, smartphones, and the Internet. And—tomorrow if not
already today—AI.

Wiener foresaw the problems that Turing and the other optimists have largely
overlooked. The real danger, he said, is

that such machines, though helpless by themselves, may be used by a human being or a
block of human beings to increase their control over the rest of the race or that political
leaders may attempt to control their populations by means not of machines themselves
but through political techniques as narrow and indifferent to human possibility as if they
had, in fact, been conceived mechanically. (p. 181)

The power, he recognized, lay primarily in the algorithms, not the hardware they run on,
although the hardware of today makes practically possible algorithms that would have
seemed preposterously cumbersome in Wiener’s day. What can we say about these
“techniques” that are “narrow and indifferent to human possibility”? They have been
introduced again and again, some obviously benign, some obviously dangerous, and
many in the omnipresent middle ground of controversy.

Consider a few of the skirmishes. My late friend Joe Weizenbaum, Wiener’s
successor as MIT’s Jeremiah of hi-tech, loved to observe that credit cards, whatever their
virtues, also provided an inexpensive and almost foolproof way for the government, or
corporations, to track the travels and habits and desires of individuals. The anonymity of
cash has been largely underappreciated, except by drug dealers and other criminals, and
now it may be going extinct. This may make money laundering a more difficult technical
challenge in the future, but the AI pattern finders arrayed against it have the side effect of
making us all more transparent to any “block of human beings” that may “attempt to
control” us.

Looking to the arts, the innovation of digital audio and video recording lets us pay
a small price (in the eyes of all but the most ardent audiophiles and film lovers) when we
abandon analog formats, and in return provides easy—all too easy?—reproduction of
artworks with almost perfect fidelity. But there is a huge hidden cost. Orwell’s Ministry
of Truth is now a practical possibility. AI techniques for creating all-but-undetectable
forgeries of “recordings” of encounters are now becoming available which will render
obsolete the tools of investigation we have come to take for granted in the last hundred
and fifty years. Will we simply abandon the brief Age of Photographic Evidence and
return to the earlier world in which human memory and trust provided the gold standard,
or will we develop new techniques of defense and offense in the arms race of truth? (We
can imagine a return to analog film-exposed-to-light, kept in “tamper-proof” systems
until shown to juries, etc., but how long would it be before somebody figured out a way
to infect such systems with doubt? One of the disturbing lessons of recent experience 1s
that the task of destroying a reputation for credibility is much less expensive than the task
of protecting such a reputation.) Wiener saw the phenomenon at its most general: “...1n

43

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016846
