Real estate is perceived as attractive based
on supply of investment opportunities
In last year’s report, we monitored sovereign
investment in real estate, with its perceived superior
supply-side dynamics relative to other real asset and
alternative categories. While asset allocation shifts
have slowed this year, the trend towards real estate
has accelerated, driven by capacity for sovereign
investment. For example, it is noted that while
relatively few countries offer private investors access
to a wide range of investment-grade infrastructure
investments, there is broad access to commercial and
office sectors across major developed and emerging
markets, causing sovereigns to cite real estate as
the asset class with the fewest execution challenges
(figure 14).

Furthermore, investment sovereigns with large
internal teams noted that real estate was unique
in its scope for greenfield investment. Sovereigns
continue to develop internal asset management
capability in real estate (figure 15 highlights the
high levels on internal management within real
estate), enabling them to generate investment
opportunities themselves, rather than source and
compete for real estate deals with other investors.
In an environment where challenges executing
against target real asset and alternative allocations
drag on investment returns, supply depth is a key
differentiator for real estate.

24

Target illiquid
alternative
allocations have
increased, despite
deployment
challenges.

mM 2016
M2017

Fig 14. Underweight asset classes due to
execution challenges (% citations)

Infrastructure Real estate

Private equity

Sample is based on sovereign investors and excludes central banks.
Sample: 2016=20, 2017=41.

i Real estate
i Private equity
WS Infrastructure

Fig 15. Internal management of international
illiquid alternatives (% AUM)

Sample is based on sovereign investors and excludes central banks. Data is not weighted by AUM.
Sample: Real estate=31, Private equity=26 Infrastructure=24.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026704
