discussion of thermodynamic energy and its conservation in Lectures in Physics
begins with the premise that it is a numerical quantity that does not change when
one or many alterations in the system occurs. His heurism for energy and its
conservation involves the premise that Dennis the Menace has 28 indivisible blocks,
a number which his parents find constant at the end of every day of play. If one day
a count yielded 27, an investigation would reveal that a block could be found
elsewhere, say under the rug. If at the end of the day, the count was 29, the extra
one had to come from somewhere else, perhaps Dennis’s playmate Bruce. If
Dennis locked some of his blocks in the toy box and threw some into a bathtub of
dirty water and (1) A block weighed three ounces; (2) The box alone weighed 16
ounces; and (3) Each block raised the water level of 6 inches by one fourth of an
inch, then this metaphoric energy relation can be expressed:

\4 (weight of box)-16 ounces (height of water)-six inches

(blocks seen = constant (28)

3 ounces 1/4 inch
Feynman notes that this representation of an energy relation, computed as a
number of blocks, will always remain the same. If there were no blocks in sight, and
one used this energy conservation relation with blocks as units of energy, we find
no blocks as such in the expression at all.

The abstract and formal idea of energy in physics first arose in
mechanics and was generalized to electrostatics and electrodynamics. If one
idealizes these systems, eliminating real world factors such as friction, temperature
gradients, temperature dependence of the properties of materials, viscosity,
hysteresis and other nonlinear behavior, then the energy conservation law says that
in an isolated and interacting set of systems, the sum of the energies of the several
systems remains constant. If, on the other hand, a system interacts with its
surroundings, not isolated and interacting, then the increase in the energy of the
index system is equal to the work done on the system by its surrounds. Like pre-
Enron bookkeeping of corporate cash flow and balancing ones personal checking
account, energy, like money, does not disappear; it is only changed in expression.
As in the context of currency equivalent value, energy can represent a very general

quantity applicable to a wide array of specific objects and activities. The results of

46

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013546
