DANNY HILLIS

William Daniel “Danny” Hillis (born September 25, 1956,

in Baltimore, Maryland) is an American inventor, scientist,
engineer, entrepreneur, and author. He co-founded Thinking
Machines Corporation, a company that developed the
Connection Machine, a parallel supercomputer designed

by Hillis at MIT. He is also co-founder of the Long Now
Foundation, Applied Minds, Metaweb Technologies,

Applied Proteomics, and author of The Pattern on the

Stone: The Simple Ideas That Make Computers Work.

Danny Hillis was born in Baltimore, Maryland
in 1956. His father, William Hillis, was a US Air Force
epidemiologist studying hepatitis in Africa and relocated with
his family through Rwanda, Burundi, Republic of the Congo,
and Kenya. He spent a brief part of his childhood in Calcutta,
India when his father was a visiting faculty at ISI, Calcutta.
During these years the young Hillis was home schooled by his
mother Aryge Briggs Hillis, a biostatistician, and developed an
early appreciation for mathematics and biology. His younger
brother is David Hillis, a professor of evolutionary biology
at the University of Texas at Austin, and his sister is Argye E.
Hillis, a professor of neurology at Johns Hopkins University.

In 1978 Hillis graduated from MIT with a BS degree
in mathematics, followed in 1981 with an MS
degree in Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science (EECS), specializing in robotics.

During this time Hillis worked at the MIT Logo
Laboratory developing computer hardware and software for
children. He designed computer-oriented toys and games
for the Milton Bradley Company, and co-founded Terrapin
Software—a producer of computer software for elementary
schools. He also built a digital computer composed of

Tinkertoys that is on display at the Museum of Science, Boston.

Hillis’ major research, however, was into parallel
computing. Hillis designed the Connection Machine, a
parallel supercomputer; in 1983 Hillis co-founded Thinking
Machines Corporation to produce and market supercomputers
based on this design. In 1988, continuing this research, Hillis
received a PhD in EECS from MIT under doctoral advisers
Gerald Jay Sussman, Marvin Minsky and Claude Shannon.

Hillis co-founded Thinking Machines Corporation in
1983 while doing his doctoral work at MIT. The company was
to develop Hillis’ Connection Machine design into commercial
parallel supercomputers, and to explore computational
pathways to building artificial intelligence. Hillis’ ambitions
are represented by the company’s motto: “We’re building
a machine that will be proud of us,” and Hillis’ parallel
architecture was to be the main component for this task:

Clearly, the organizing principle of the brain is
parallelism. It’s using massive parallelism. The information
is in the connection between a lot of very simple parallel
units working together. So if we built a computer that was
more along that system of organization, it would likely
be able to do the same kinds of things the brain does.

At Thinking Machines Corporation, Hillis

built a technical team with many people that would

later become leaders in science and industry including
Brewster Kahle, Guy Steele, Sydney Brenner, David
Waltz, Jack Schwartz, and Eric Lander. He even recruited
Richard Feynman to spend his summers there. For many
years, Thinking Machines Corporation connection
machines were the fastest computers in the world.

During 1994, however, Thinking Machines filed for
bankruptcy. In 1996, after a short stint as a professor at the MIT
Media Lab, Hillis joined The Walt Disney Company full time
in the newly created role of Disney Fellow and Vice President,
Research and Development, Walt Disney Imagineering,
which Hillis claimed was an early ambition of his:

I’ve wanted to work at Disney ever since I was a
child... remember listening to Walt Disney on television
describing the ‘Imagineers’ who designed Disneyland.

I decided then that someday I would be an Imagineer.
Later, I became interested in a different kind of magic—
the magic of computers. Now I finally have the perfect
job—bringing computer magic into Disney.

At Disney, Hillis developed new technologies as well
as business strategies for Disney’s theme parks, television,
motion pictures, Internet and consumer products businesses.
He also designed new theme park rides, a full sized walking
robot dinosaur and various micro mechanical devices.

Hillis left Disney in 2000, taking with him Bran
Ferren, President of the Walt Disney Imagineering, R&D
Creative Technologies division. Together, Ferren and Hillis
founded Applied Minds, a company aimed at providing
technology and consulting services to firms in an array of
industries, including aerospace, electronics, and toys. In
July 2005, Hillis and others from Applied Minds initiated
Metaweb Technologies, Inc. to develop a semantic data storage
infrastructure for the Internet, and Freebase, an “open,
shared database of the world’s knowledge”. When Metaweb
was acquired by Google, the technology became the basis
of Google’s Knowledge Graph. Hillis, together with
Dr. David B. Agus, cofounded a spinoff of Applied Minds
called Applied Proteomics Inc which designed and
prototyped a machine that measures the level of proteins
in the blood for medical diagnosis.

Hillis’ work with Agus on cancer led to the
founding of the University of Southern California
Physical Sciences-Oncology Center (USC PS-OC),
funded by the National Cancer Institute (NCI). Hillis
is the principle investigator of this program.

In 1993, with Thinking Machines facing its demise,
Hillis wrote about long-term thinking and suggested a
project to build a clock designed to function for millennia:

When I was a child, people used to talk about
what would happen by the year 2000. Now, thirty years
later, they still talk about what will happen by the year

2000. The future has been shrinking by one year per year

for my entire life. I think it is time for us to start a long-
term project that gets people thinking past the mental
barrier of the Millennium. I would like to propose a large
(think Stonehenge) mechanical clock, powered by seasonal
temperature changes. It ticks once a year, bongs once a
century, and the cuckoo comes out every millennium.

This clock became the Clock of the Long
Now, a name invented by the songwriter and composer,
Brian Eno. Hillis wrote an article for Wired magazine
suggesting a clock that would last over 10,000 years.

The project led directly to the founding of the Long Now
Foundation in 1996 by Hillis and others, including Stewart
Brand, Brian Eno, Esther Dyson, and Mitch Kapor.

Hillis asserts that parallelism itself is approximately
the main ingredient of intelligence; that there is not
anything else required to make a mind result from a
distributed network of processors. Hillis believes that

.. ntelligence is just a whole lot of little
things, thousands of them. And what will happen is
we Il learn about each one at a time, and as we doit,
machines will be more and more like people. It will
be a gradual process, and that’s been happening.

This is not so different from Marvin Minsky’s Society
of Mind theory, which holds that mind is a collection of agents,
each one taking care of a particular aspect of intelligence,
and communicating with one another, exchanging
information as required.

Some artificial intelligence theorists have other
opinions—that it’s not the underlying computational
mode that’s crucial, but rather particular algorithms
(of reasoning, memory, perception, etc.). Others
argue that the right combination of “little things” is
needed to give rise to the overall emergent patterns of
coordinated activity that constitute real intelligence.

Hillis is one of a small number of people
who have made a serious attempt to create such a
“thinking machine” and his ambitions are clear:

“T’d like to find a way for consciousness to
transcend human flesh. Building a thinking machine is
really a search for a kind of Earthly immortality. Something
much more intelligent than we can exist. Making a
thinking machine is my way to reach out to that.”

Hillis’ 1998 popular science book The Pattern on the
Stone attempts to explain concepts from computer science for
laymen using simple language, metaphor and analogy. It moves
from Boolean algebra through topics such as information
theory, parallel computing, cryptography, algorithms,
heuristics, Turing machines, and promising technologies
such as quantum computing and emergent systems.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017542
