this perspective, people believe in God
because it is so easy to believe in
invisible supernatural presence, and the
great religions are elaborations around
this basic core. !

Belief in the Invisible

Yet it is also true that in many
ways it is hard for people to believe in
the invisible, intentional being of God, at
least in some ways and at some times. It
is one thing to believe in the abstract that
there is a good and loving God; it is
another thing to believe that this God
loves you in particular this very
afternoon when your car has broken
down in the rain. Many Christians
struggle at some point with whether God
exists or with whether they understand
God’s nature. A young man may come
to university as a devout Christian, take
a course on religion, and begin to
wonder whether Christ as well as
Krishna are cultural constructions. A
depressed woman may understand
herself as devout, but find that when she
sits down to pray she feels that no one is
listening to her prayers. And always
there are times when terrible things
happen to good and faithful people who
often continued to believe in God in the
abstract, but who find that they can not
longer pray at all. The struggle between
espoused religion (the religion one
asserts; the Nicene creed) and lived
religion (the way in which one
experiences God from moment to
moment) is central to the life of the
Christian, and perhaps to the lives of
most believers.

The problem for believers is that
to experience the Christian God as
present, one must override three basic
features of human psychology, features
that are also part of our evolutionary
inheritance. A person must override the

112

Page

expectation that our minds are private,
an expectation so substantial that
researchers have shown that it develops
around the world at a more or less
similar age and can be found even in
non-human primates. A person must
override the expectation that persons are
visible. And finally, a person must
override the expectation that love is
conditional, as it is for all social beings
beyond a certain age, when right
behavior is expected as a condition of
human interaction. At least, some
versions of Christianity expect
unconditional love.

The deep puzzle of faith is not
why but how. How is it possible that
people are able to violate such
fundamental expectations of presence?
The answer, in part, is that they do not.
For most Christians, it will be a lifelong
process to believe in all times and in all
ways that their God is real for them in
the way that their church tells them that
God is real. As the psalmist laments:
“how long wilt thou forget me, Oh Lord?
For ever? How long wilt thou hide thy
face from me?” (Psalm 13: 1). What they
do to make God plausible for them
depends upon their understanding of
God and on what the social world of a
faith teaches about how to experience
their minds and bodies to find evidence
for God’s presence.

Learning to Sense the Presence of God

In 2004 I set out to study
ethnographically the way God becomes
real for people in a church that would
exacerbate the cognitive burden of
belief. I chose an example of the new
Protestant church that grew up after the
1960s. * Those churches set out as an
invitation to experience God as
concretely and as vividly as God had
been experienced by the earliest

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021358
