staircase I prepared myself for some major sucking up before I left, he
would be expecting it for his recent generosity, or so I had thought.
Opening those familiar heavy doors the first thing { saw was an
unfamiliar face standing over Jeffrey’s shoulder.

She was a tall girl with blonde hair twisted up in a professional looking
knot. Her big smile was flashing at him with hints of her cheekiness to
come and she was dressed to kill with a short tight grey skirt and a
matching suit jacket over her white buttoned down blouse, revealing her
voluptuous ample cleavage. She looked like the old college professor’s
wet dream. When she introduced herself to me, a thick Czech accent
presented itself. Her name was Nadia Marcinkova and Jeffrey looked just
about as smitten as a victim of a love struck arrow from no one but the
cupids themselves. Jeffrey further introduced her as his new assistant and
masseuse while | would be away, barely taking his eyes off her for one
second. It was a bit of a blow to take, being so easily replaced but also a
part of me already knew this was expected off someone like him. Good
for him I thought to myself, why should I have bitterness over someone [
never had intimate feelings for and knew had never really cared for me in
the first place. Kissing her on the cheeks and telling her my name, [ was
doing my best to grin and bear it. We hugged for a brief show of
uniformity but it was just that, a show for Jeffrey to see. When he was
away for the moment or she wasn’t busy hanging off his every word, the
way we all started out, she would snub me off to only head off in another
direction. A real bitch if anyone was to ask me but no one would anyways
it wasn’t my job to like her.

Over the next course of days it was my task to show her some of my
techniques in massaging Jeffrey and the erotic side of finishing it off.
Nadia despised me even more when Jeffrey told her to follow my lead
during the massage as she tried to take over and do her own thing a few
times. To me it was quite funny her competitive side, | had nothing more
to prove so watching her put on an act of seduction and scream out her
every body function during a faked orgasm was nothing but entertaining
in my eyes. After a few sessions together it was my time to be off on
another adventure far, far away from here or from the chains that I wore
for way too long. Jeffrey had someone else to fit the chains that kept me
so close to him. Even though she wasn’t the nicest of girls I still couldn’t
help but feel sorry for her. No girl should belong to someone out of
servitude, but unfortunately it is the way our civilization has been for
many centuries before us and I don’t see changing any time soon or as
long as perverts like Jeffrey are allowed to walk around freely and
procure our daughters off the streets all because he’s got a lot of money to
pay many, many, many people off,

119

Throw out your confetti because here [ come Chang-Mai!! My
celebrations started the second I landed, it didn’t take me long to make
myself aquatinted with a few fellow travelers and find the hot spots of the
hustling city. It was like nowhere I had ever been before. The streets were
lined with stalls offering an assortment of souvenirs, clothing, and knick-
knacks. Everyone lived so freely and was in such great spirits. The parties
raged on until the wee hours of the morning and people became best
friends over night. From the second I got there I knew Thailand was
going to be a lot of fun and | was right! Popping bottles of champagne,
dancing ali night to the beat of every club’s rhythm’s along my way and
carrying on like it was my birthday...every night was a repetition | could
definitely get used too. During the day 1 was a real good girl, the teachers
pet even. Showing the credibility of my experience in massage from over
the last few years and already ahead of the class the teacher was using me
to help instruct the others with demonstrations. Mostly in a class full of
males it wasn’t a surprise that | made friends with quite a few of them,
some of them with ulterior motives, but for the most part the sleazebags
were none of my concern, | had already dealt with a lifetime of them to
be able to spot one out and steer clear of his approaches. Out of the entire
class ! had made friends with only one girl from Wisconsin. She was a
plain looking girl with big brown puppy dog eyes and a long drawn out
accent. Her first time leaving the States or Wisconsin itself for that matter
so it was easy to acknowledge that she was a little taken aback by all of
the bustling city life so becoming her friend felt like I was doing a good
deed showing her around the hot spots of the Chaing-Mai nightlife.
Eventually | even ended up inviting her to stay with me at my hotel. She
was running out of money to party every night then pay for school on top
of her accommodation, it was all becoming too much out of her small
budget. So I thought about it and offered her a bed in my room, | had two
of them anyways. Plus she was a really nice girl and if | could help make
her first time out of the country an unforgettable experience then | was
also gaining something from it as well.

The first month in quickly passed me by. Having such an incredible
time on my own and putting my heart into leaming Thai Massage it
seemed to just fly past. Routinely I had to call in and check in with
Jeffrey and Ghislane letting them know my whereabouts and progression
in class. Counting down the time left until my course finished Jeffrey was
anticipating my departure back to New York. “I can’t wait to get my first
Thai massage from you. I’ve got you booked to come straight back to
New York for my first one as soon as your course finishes next month.”
His eagerness put a twisted familiar knot in my stomach. Reminding me
of the dream I have to awake from soon and the reality of the certain
homecoming I would be arriving to. “ It’s such a great course, thank you

120

U1 Copyright Protected Material OD Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004252 CONFIDENTIAL GIUYFRE004253

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021204
