stopped at a fifties looking diner and got a cheeseburger and vanilla
milkshake, the first and only time I saw Jeffrey eat what I considered to
be real food. Seven lanes to drive in and the freeway was still lined
bumper to bumper in the heavy rain. The sound of downpour on the
rooftop of the taxi and the rhythm of the windshield wipers was making
me sleepy. I was looking forward to sleeping through the long flight
back. Thank goodness we had a private jet to catch back, the trip would
be comfortable and not rushed to get there on time through the daily peak
hour traffic. Jeffrey asked me what I thought of Nadia, more of a kiss and
tell kind of thing for him, so proud to admit some of his tenacious acts of
pedophilia to me that I knew most people would be embarrassed to even
think aloud but I said what he wanted to hear when he asked me what I
had thought of her on the way back. I replied, “She is attractive, funny,
and seems to know what she is doing with you.” Laughing at my
statement, he then started to tell me the history behind where he got her.
Five years ago when she was merely a teenager just turned thirteen. Her
father had recently passed away, leaving Nadia’s mother in a tremendous
amount of debt and living in a third world country, she didn’t have the
means necessary to raise her own daughter. When Ghislane approached
Nadia for the first time at a music school, she seemed like a maternal,
caring stepmother. Telling Nadia’s mother if she let Nadia go with her,
she would se to it personally that Nadia receive the best education and
chances in life to make it. In her customs it wasn’t odd for a young girl to
be married off to bring the family good fortune, so she kissed her baby
girl good-bye and sent her off to commence her life of servitude. I sat
there speechless listening to Jeffrey brag about his endeavor to get her
over here, shocked that he could stoop as low to use a barely teen to
oblige his sexual desires. He was laughing and giddy as he replayed the
memories of her arrival over in his head, painting me a horrific picture I
had no choice but to imitate a smile to face him with.

No pretty girl is safe from the allurement of these villains procuring the
youth off of every street in the world. I knew that day more than ever
before those morals did not exist for people like this. Jeffrey once told me
that every girl he has had sexual relations with has benefited in their
career, finances, or an achievement in marriage with a successful
colleague of his. Mine was the massage career, ever so often still giving
me a lesson from a professional, which kept me quiet for a while longer.
I thought I was already knee deep in this world, if I gave up after putting
myself through all of this hell it would’ve all been be for nothing. So I
treaded lightly, constantly at a risk of being replaced by another willing
participant and playing the eager student he wanted me to be.

39

[i Copyright Protected Material
CONTIDENTIAL

GIUFFREO04 188

Chapter 9

We met Ghislane and Emmy in N.Y.C, and it wasn’t.a blissful reunion
as I hoped for, wanting a break from all of this I was just looking forward
to getting back to Palm Beach, not leaving for a further four more days. I
got home late in the evening as Jeffrey invited me out to the movies after
we had relaxed at his house for a while after landing.

I put my keys through the door to my apartment and walked in to a
quiet house. Not thinking anyone was at home | set my suitcase on the
floor and put my cell phone on charge as | always did to be accessible for
whenever Jeffrey or Ghislane could call. | went to get a drink out of the
fridge when I heard some noises coming from the back of my apartment
where my bedroom was. | started back there and slowly turned my
doorknob to reveal T.J on top of another girl. When they noticed they
weren’t alone anymore, T.J got off her with promptness. | recognized the
girl from seeing her around at parties, and she was the town lowie,
scattering her trail of guys along with her presumable diseases, and I
wasn’t shy to verbalize that when she tried to open her mouth and calm
the heated situation between T.J and I. She didn’t like her cards on the
table in front of the guy she was screwing around with and got up in a fit
of rage to attack me. Still nude with only my new white sheets to cover
her body, I threw her out of my house along with T.J. “I have been
paying your way for months, only finding out your sleeping with the
biggest slut in Royal Palm Beach, at least have some dignity and higher
your standards.” I didn’t really have a leg to stand on since I had started
this relationship giving him the knowledge I had a sugar daddy to answer
to above him. “You’re gone all the time and with that old man, what did
you expect me to do”? He was right, I wanted what I couldn’t have, but I
needed some time to cool down and accept my situation. | loved having
T.J around to come home too, and he used to be my best friend in my
school days. I convinced myself of the lies I continued to accept.

Days later I was still not speaking with TJ, mentally adjusting to my
circumstances, I thought I’d have the day off to relax since I hadn’t been
called all day. Until about five pm when Ghislane called and said Jeffrey
would like a massage in an hour. Grudgingly I got up from relaxing on
the couch, got dressed and put my make-up on, meeting Juan downstairs
a half an hour later. Jeffrey was already lying on the massage table when
I walked in. I started the massage being very quiet from my somber
mood, when Jeffrey picked up on it and said “you know it’s not good to
massage people when you’re angry, you could pass on negative energy”.
I wasn’t sure if he was serious or just trying to be nice so I could speak
about what was bothering me. Ending up not being able to contain my

56

(1 Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL

GIUTTREOOS 189°

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021172
