Edwards, Bradley vs. Dershowitz

Case No.: CACE 15-000072

Edwards and Cassells Response to Dershowitz's Motion to Determine Confidentiality of Court Records
Page 14 of 20

Dershowitz description of what was said is not true.” Statement of Ms. McCawley on Behalf of
David Boies (Oct. 15, 2015).

More broadly, the Court can readily see from this passage how Dershowitz is willing to
inject into the record a part of Ms. Giuffre’s affidavit whenever it serves his purpose — and,
indeed, to characterize the part of the affidavit as “preposterous.” But then he asks this Court to
place the underlying affidavit under seal, so that the Edwards and Cassell stand accused having
filed a “preposterous” affidavit without anyone being able to assess the validity of Dershowitz’s
attack.

Dershowitz has referred to the court records that he now wishes to have the Court declare
confidential not only in his deposition, but also in his widely-broadcast media attacks on
Edwards and Cassell. For example, Dershowitz appeared on the British Broadcasting
Corporation (the BBC) and was asked about the allegations:

Well, first of all they were made in court papers that they don’t even ask for a hearing
to try to prove them. They put them in court papers in order to immunize themselves
from any consequences from a defamation suit. The story is totally made

up, completely out of whole cloth.

I don’t know this woman. I was not at the places at the times. It is part of a pattern of
made up stories against prominent people and world leaders. And the lawyers in
recent statement challenged me to deny the allegations under oath. I am doing that. I
am denying them under oath, thus subjecting me to a perjury prosecution were I not
telling the truth. J am now challenging them to have their client put these charges
under oath and for them to put them under oath. I am also challenging them to repeat
them outside of the context of court papers so that I can sue them for defamation. .. .
And I will prove beyond any doubt not only that the story is totally false, but it was
knowingly false: that the lawyers and the client conspired together to create a false
story. That is why I am moving for their disbarment in challenges to be provided to
the disciplinary committee.

BBC Radio 4 - Sarah Montague (Jan. 3, 2015) (http:/Awww.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p02g7qbc).

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015634
