79

an extensive internal investigation to determine
whether any of the company’s subsidiaries in the
same region had engaged in misconduct.

e Thecompany self-reported the misconduct and the
results of its internal investigation to DOJ and SEC.

e The company cooperated fully with investigations
by DOJ and SEC.

e In addition to the immediate training at the relevant
subsidiary, the company provided comprehensive
FCPA training to all of its employees and conducted
an extensive review of its anti-corruption compliance
program.

e The company enhanced its internal controls and
record-keeping policies and procedures, includ-
ing requiring periodic internal audits of customs
payments.

e As part ofits remediation, the company directed that
local lawyers rather than customs agents be used to
handle its permits, with instructions that “no matter
what, we don’t pay bribes’—a policy that resulted in

a longer and costlier permit procedure.

Example 5: Public Company Declination

DOJ and SEC declined to take enforcement action
against a U.S. publicly held consumer products company
in connection with its acquisition of a foreign company.
Factors taken into consideration included:

e The company identified the potential improper
payments to local government officials as part of its
pre-acquisition due diligence.

e The company promptly developed a comprehen-
sive plan to investigate, correct, and remediate any
FCPA issues after acquisition.

e Thecompany promptly self-reported the issues prior
to acquisition and provided the results of its investi-
gation to the government on a real-time basis.

e The acquiring company’s existing internal controls
and compliance program were robust.

e After the acquisition closed, the company imple-
mented a comprehensive remedial plan, ensured

that all improper payments stopped, provided

extensive FCPA training to employees of the new
subsidiary, and promptly incorporated the new
subsidiary into the company’s existing internal

controls and compliance environment.

Example 6: Private Company Declination

In 2011, DOJ declined to take prosecutorial action

against a privately held U.S. company and its foreign subsid-

iary. Factors taken into consideration included:

The company voluntarily disclosed bribes paid to
social security officials in a foreign country.

The total amount of the bribes was small.

When discovered, the corrupt practices were imme-
diately terminated.

The conduct was thoroughly investigated, and the
results of the investigation were promptly provided
to DOJ.

All individuals involved were either terminated

or disciplined. The company also terminated its
relationship with its foreign law firm.

The company instituted improved training and
compliance programs commensurate with its size

and risk exposure.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022581
