I confess that this book casts me as that little boy crashing the economic party, and
maybe the evolutionary biology one too, in trust that outsiders might have better
chances to spot the obvious unseen. What else was the pay rule? I derived it easily
from doctrines already accepted, I think, and anyhow hard to refute. Those were the
total return turism and Ben-Porath’s equation for human growth. The maximand
rule or deadweight loss rule would prove it as well. How could Becker have missed
that what holds for investment in job training by employers holds for any
investment by anyone in anything? How could students of the age-wage problem
have missed the obvious solution? Investment implies expected recovery with
interest, by the investor or a chosen donee, and recovery means recovery of
depreciation. I belabor this point because tradition dies hard, and naturally tends to
circle wagons under attack. I doubt that my surprise attack will meet the resistance
Darwin’s found. Darwin’s met resistance founded on faith. I took pains to show that
my version requires only selection for lineage survival, and that a benign Artificer

might ordain the same.

Evolutionary Biology and Hamilton's Rule

Economics, meaning any quantitative rationale of choice, normally describes
humans and human choice. That goes for this book too. But some treatments of
economics including this one are meant to fit other creatures as well. My axioms
have kept that in mind. The mortal and reproducing population need not be human.
Much of the animal kingdom, | think, shows convergent tastes and predictions or
acts as if it did. The biological imperative is meant to apply to all. All, as I see it, own
capital of both factors. Even protozoans own (“monopolize”) the nutrients they
assimilate and the space they occupy. Humans are exceptional in their cultural
accumulations of learning and technology shown in our secular (lasting) growth.

But I did not make those features axioms.

| argued that economics tended to reason explicitly or implicitly from the biological

imperative, meaning what | call “ends” in lineage survival, from Petty through Smith

Chapter 7 Petty’s Idea 2/3/16 3

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011062
