62

CHAPTER SIX
Thief

“We begin by coveting what we see every day”

—Hannibal Lecter, The Silence of the Lambs

In Hawaii in 2012, Snowden was living a very comfortable life. He was earning from Dell
just over $120,000 a year. His housing allowance from Dell paid the rent on his 1,559 square-
foot house. He had also leased a sporty car. Looking back at this period of life from Moscow,
he said he had been “living in paradise.”

He went to work five times a week, a 15 minute trip drive through a lush landscape with sugar
plantations. After passing through security, he parked his car in a sprawling parking lot, and
entered the underground part of the NSA base known as “the tunnel.” He said in describing the
atmosphere, “You’re in a vaulted space. Everybody has sort of similar clearances, everybody
knows everybody. It’s a small world.” He said that to relieve the tediousness of the work, every
two months or so his fellow workers would pass around a naked picture that showed up on their
screens. He explained: “You've got young enlisted guys, 18 to 22 years old [who] suddenly been
thrust into a position of extraordinary responsibility where they now have access to all of your
private records. In the course of their daily work they stumble across ... an intimate nude photo
of someone in a sexually compromising position.” Snowden, as will be recalled, was no stranger
to posting lewd photographs. Before he joined the CIA, he had posted pictures of himself
mooning on the Internet. He also knew that copying any files, including photographs, was a
violation of NSA rules. But he did not report this illicit activity at the NSA even though he later
claimed that it occurred regularly. He joked in his Moscow interview with the Guardian that
some of the nudes were “extremely attractive” and that viewing them was, as he put it, “a sort of
the fringe benefits of surveillance positions.”

Snowden also had an interest in American politics. He identified with the Libertarian Party, and
at the NSA he made no effort to conceal his political support of its causes. He became an active
partisan of Congressman Ron Paul, the leading figure in the Libertarian Party in 2012. “He's so
dreamy,” Snowden posted on the Ars Technica site in March 2009 (just after he registered to
vote in North Carolina.) Since Paul was running as a Presidential candidate in the 2012
Republican primaries, Snowden sent the Paul election committee a contribution of $500.
Snowden’s attraction to the Libertarian ideology of Ron Paul was not that surprising. At the core
of Paul’s libertarianism was a deep hostility to the intrusion of the government into private lives.
Snowden shared this same hostility towards government authority, as was clear from his Internet
postings. Like other libertarians, Snowden believed that citizens should not be shackled by

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020214
