my opinion, is clearly unconstitutional. Id. at 1357. The President stated that, [i]n order that I may be
on record as indicating my opinion that the foregoing provision of the so-called Lend-Lease Act is
unconstitutional, and in order that my approval of the bill, due to the existing exigencies of the world
situation, may not be construed as a tacit acquiescence in any contrary view, I am requesting you to
place this memorandum in the official files of the Department of Justice. I am desirous of having this
done for the further reason that I should not wish my action in approving the bill which includes this
invalid clause, to be used as a precedent for any future legislation comprising provisions of a similar
nature. Id. at 1358.

2) Message to the Congress on Legislative Vetoes, Pub. Papers of Jimmy Carter 1146 (Jun. 21, 1978 ):

In this memorandum President Carter expressed his strong opposition to legislative vetoes and stated
that [t]he inclusion of [a legislative veto] in a bill will be an important factor in my decision to sign or
to veto it. Id. at 1148. He further stated that, [a]s for legislative vetoes over the execution of programs
already prescribed in legislation and in bills I must sign for other reasons, the Executive Branch will
generally treat them as 'report-and-wait' provisions. In such a case, if Congress subsequently adopts a
resolution to veto an Executive action, we will give it serious consideration, but we will not, under our
reading of the Constitution, consider it legally binding. Id. at 1149.

Historical Materials

1) Statement of James Wilson on December 1, 1787 on the Adoption of the Federal Constitution,
reprinted in 2 Jonathan Elliot, Debates on the Federal Constitution 418 (1836): Wilson argued that the
Constitution imposed significant -- and sufficient -- restraints on the power of the legislature, and that
the President would not be dependent upon the legislature. In this context, he stated that the power of
the Constitution was paramount to the power of the legislature acting under that Constitution; for it is
possible that the legislature . . . may transgress the bounds assigned to it, and an act may pass, in the
usual mode, notwithstanding that transgression; but when it comes to be discussed before the judges,--
when they consider its principles, and find it to be incompatible with the superior power of the
Constitution,-- it is their duty to pronounce it void . . . . In the same manner, the President of the United
States could shield himself, and refuse to carry into effect an act that violates the Constitution. Id. at
445-46.

2) Letter from Chief Justice Chase to Gerrit Smith (Apr. 19, 1868), quoted in J. Schuckers, The Life
and Public Services of Salmon Portland Chase 577 (1874): Chase stated that President Johnson took

the proper action in removing Secretary of War Stanton without Senate approval, in light of Johnson's
belief that the statutory restriction on his removal authority was unconstitutional. In this regard, Chase
commented that the President had a perfect right, and indeed was under the highest obligation, to
remove Mr. Stanton, if he made the removal not in wanton disregard of a constitutional law, but with a
sincere belief that the Tenure-of-Office Act was unconstitutional and for the purpose of bringing the
question before the Supreme Court. Id. at 578.

Congressional Materials

1) The President's Suspension of the Competition in Contracting Act is Unconstitutional, H.R. Rep.

No. 138, 99th Cong., Ist Sess. (1985): The House Committee on Government Operations concluded
thatthe President lacked the authority to refuse to implement any provision of the Competition in
Contracting Act. The Committee stated that, [t]o adopt the view that one's oath to support and defend
the Constitution is a license to exercise any available power in furtherance of one's own constitutional
interpretation would quickly destroy the entire constitutional scheme. Such a view, whereby the
President pledges allegiance to the Constitution but then determines what the Constitution means,
inexorably leads to the usurpation by the Executive of the others' roles. Id. at 11. The Committee also
stated that [t]he Executive's suspension of the law circumvents the constitutionally specified means
for expressing Executive objections to law and is a constitutionally impermissible absolute veto

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012392
