MEGAN SMITH

Megan recently joined Google’s advanced products team,

Google [x], where she is working on range of projects including
co-creating /hosting SolveForX, a forum to encourage and
amplify technology-based moonshot thinking and teamwork
(http://www.wesolveforx.com/). For nine years before that she
oversaw Google’s New Business Development team managing
early-stage partnerships, pilot explorations, and technology
licensing working closely with Google’s engineering and
product teams globally across all product areas. She led many
of the company’s early acquisitions, including Keyhole (Google
Earth), Where2Tech (Google Maps) and Picasa. Megan also
led the Google.org team transition to expand and innovate
engineering based projects including Google Crisis Response,
Google for Nonprofits, and Earth Outreach/Earth Engine,
Googler 1%-time (now called “GoogleServezo”) in addition to
operationalizing Google’s more traditional corporate giving.
Prior to joining Google in 2003, Megan was the CEO
and, earlier, COO of PlanetOut, the leading gay, lesbian,
bisexual and transgender online community, where the
team broke through many barriers and partnered closely
with all of the early major web players. She also held roles
at General Magic and Apple Japan. Over the years, Megan
has contributed to a wide range of engineering projects,
including an award-winning bicycle lock, space station
construction program, solar cookstoves and was a member
of the MIT student team who designed, built and raced a
solar car 2000 miles across the Australian outback. She holds
a bachelor’s degree and a master’s degree in mechanical
engineering from MIT, where she now serves on the board. She
completed her master’s thesis work at the MIT Media Lab.

BENEDIKT TASCHEN

Benedikt Taschen, 1961, Cologne, Germany, is a German
publisher. His professional life started at age 18 ina
250-square-foot (23 m*) store in Cologne, Germany, named
TASCHEN COMICS. In 1984, he bought 40,000 remainder
copies of a Magritte monograph published in English with
money borrowed from his family. The books sold through at
double the price in two months and he was soon publishing
his own books. By the end of the 1980s TASCHEN titles
were available in over a dozen languages at prices that made
art books affordable to students and collectors alike.

By the late 1990s, he had become a household
name in publishing. When Vanity Fair’s Matt Tyrnauer
deemed him, “one of the few people in business who has the
courage to do exactly what he wants whenever he wants to”,
Benedikt Taschen tested the theory with Helmut Newton’s
SUMO, the largest bound book of the zoth century. “I have
done a lot of books, and I can tell you—without mentioning
names—that publishers are not all like him. There are very
few like him. Or there are none like him. He is also, I might
add, amadman”, says Helmut Newton to Vanity Fair.

SUMO is also the company’s most successful title
of the last ten years and the precursor to Benedikt Taschen’s
most ambitious personal project: GOAT—Greatest of All Time, a
tribute to Muhammad Ali, shipping in Spring 2004. Four years
in the making, GOAT weighs 75 Ibs and is 20 x20 in size, with
nearly 800 pages of archival and original photographs, graphic
artwork and articles and essays—including those of Ali himself:

Another of his books is the Icons series of art
books, some of the most accessible in the world.

Today, TASCHEN has offices in Cologne, Hong
Kong, London, Los Angeles, Madrid, Paris and Tokyo and
stores in Amsterdam, Berlin, Beverly Hills, Brussels, Cologne,
Copenhagen, Hamburg, Hollywood, London, Miami, New
York, and Paris. TASCHEN employs 200 staff members
worldwide and many longtime freelance editors. As Billy
Wilder put it in Vanity Fair 2000: “Benedikt reminds me
of an old-time Hollywood figure—a studio head, someone
who is in firm command and has his hand in everything”.

He is married and lives in the Chemosphere, designed
by John Lautner in 1960. He bought the home for $1 million
in 1997, restored the building, and published a book on
Lautner. He lives and works in Cologne and Los Angeles.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017557
