parent from within the field of variously
operative forces or influences on one’s
life, and for that reason the Christian
need neither fear God’s loss nor rue
God’s absence as one would such a
parent’s. Unlike relations with human
others, which are situation-sensitive and
thereby susceptible to change of
character, rupture, and decline, God,
Christians believe, is with one, whatever
happens, in exactly the same capacity--
as the creator and sustainer of whatever
it is that remains good about one’s life,
be that only at a minimum the bare fact
that one continues to live. The Christian
who believes God is his or her creator is
therefore confident that God continues to
work for his or her ultimate good, that
God is engaged in the effort to increase
it, whatever the impediments in human
life suggesting the contrary, absent, that
is, almost any confirming evidence.

The Problem of Inattention

Although invisibility and
apparent absence do not pose the same
problem here as they do when God is
one’s friend, this rather more impersonal
understanding of God’s influence as
creator and sustainer has its own
problem maintaining a strong sense of
connection to God. The diffuseness of
influence that lies behind God’s constant
invisible presence can prompt simple
Christian inattention to God. The very
monotony of the always pertinent
Christian affirmation that everything is
to be attributed to God can make that
affirmation recede from focal awareness,
make it fail to come focally to mind.
Belief in God’s uniform presence would
thereby become functionally
indistinguishable from the sense of
God’s absence. The invisibility of God
that follows from a belief in the
comprehensiveness of God’s influence
simply means in that case that God drops

124

Page

out of sight and mind, drops out of
Christian consideration for most intents
and purposes, most of the time. Such a
God has little to offer as a “para-social”
entity, as a factor fomenting or
supplementing a sense of social
connection.

In the back of their minds
Christians may believe that God is the
source of everything, but they may not
feel compelled to consider that fact
actively in the course of their everyday
lives. God hides behind, so to speak, all
the creaturely influences that God is
working through, which become matters
of primary Christian preoccupation. At
the center of attention are all the
ordinary influences and connections with
one’s natural and human environments;
preoccupation with them pushes out of
focal awareness the fact of God as the
ultimate source of them all. Apart from
specifically religious obligations—say,
the demand to give God thanks and
praise at times of worship—Christians
who believe God is their creator would
have no particular reason to dwell on
that fact.

Christian theologians commonly
tie this sort of practical worry--about
what from a Christian point of view
amounts to sinful neglect of one’s
connection to God--to the understanding
of double agency in the account of
creation I sketched above.“ According
to that account, it is true, God’s
influence on human life does not have to
go by way of the human and natural
causal powers and influences on human
life that God creates; God can influence
human life without producing sufficient
created causes for what God wants to
happen in human life. (The Christian
claim that Jesus was resurrected from the
dead—an event without natural causes--
is a case in point, one that Christians are

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021370
