ALLEN GUTHRIE MCHUGH & THOMAS, PLLC

Mr. John Roth
June 19, 2008
Page 2

Act. Later, while at the Department of Justice, I co-authored the Department’s Federal Child
Support Prosecution Handbook. ,

My work at CEOS permitted me to continue my efforts on behalf of vulnerable victims of
crime. While there, for example, I was part of the prosecution team in United States v. Dwight York,
428 F.3d 1325 (1 1 Cir. 2005), cert denied, 548 U.S. 908 (2006). York was the leader of a pseudo
religious organization, and systematically molested countless children, some as young as six years
old. The case went to trial and York was sentenced to 135 years in prison. As part of that trial team,
I was awarded the Attorney General’s Award for Distinguished Service. Additionally, at CEOS I
was one of the architects of the Innocence Lost Initiative, a nationwide initiative designed to combat
child prostitution. For this, I was awarded an Assistant Attorney General’s Award for Outstanding
Victim/Witness Service. Likewise, I was awarded a subsequent Assistant Attorney General’s Award
for Special Initiative in connection with a nationwide sex tourism prosecution initiative I helped to
develop.

I say all this not for any boastful purpose, but, rather, to make clear that I am fully cognizant
of victim issues, and that I‘am no pushover in terms of prosecution standards. I am also very well
aware of the good work of CEOS, and the outstanding credentials of those who toil in that office.

With all due respect to CEOS, however (and recognizing that their review of this case was
quite limited), given the facts and circumstances of this investigation, a federal prosecution of Mr.
Epstein simply should not be countenanced. In my view, such prosecution would be counter to the
important mandate of the Department of Justice as emblazoned on its seal, “Qui Pro Domina Justitia
Sequitur,” referring to the Attorney General “who prosecutes on behalf of justice.”

As you well know, it is fundamental to that mandate that, as the representative of the people
of the United States, the duty of a federal prosecutor is not simply to seek conviction as at any cost,
but, rather, to seek justice. Berger v. United States, 295 U.S. 78, 88 (1935). (“The United States
Attorney is the representative not of an ordinary party to a controversy, but of a sovereignty whose
obligation to govern impartially is as compelling as its obligation to govern at all.”) While it is true
that Berger was decided at the post-trial, as opposed to the pre-indictment, stage of the case, the
bedrock principle contained in the above quote should transcend the entire investigation and
prosecution process. Indeed, it is arguably most imperative at the investigation stage, at which point
law enforcement is dealing with a presumptively innocent citizen.

In summary, we understand the allegations against Mr. Epstein to be that Mr. Epstein paid
individuals to find friends and acquaintances, certain of whom were under the age of 18, to provide
topless massages to him at his Palm Beach home in exchange for money. Mr. Epstein’s assistants
allegedly scheduled these massages for him over the telephone at the direction of Mr. Epstein,
allegedly including some scheduling calls to underage women. However, the evidence contradicts
these allegations. First, Mr. Epstein did not ask that the masseuses be under the age of 18. To the
contrary, he specifically asked that they be 18 or older. As one witness commented, said tell

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012184
