one, for many reasons. Clarisse mentioned that some people don't use safewords. From
the context, she's talking not about people for whom no means no in scene, but people for
whom there is no definitive way for the bottom to stop the scene. And perhaps readers
can tell from Clarisse's tone that that's... the advanced class. You'll find the safety police
in any BDSM space or community that finger-wag about it, and the swaggering more-
kinky-than-thous that brag about it. But what does it mean?

I can only tell you what it means for me. There are times I give up my safeword: only to
my spouse. We've been playing together for about a decade and a half. If I give up my
safeword, and that's something we do rarely, it doesn't mean I don't have limits. I have
limits! Yes I do! There are things I can't handle, mentally or physically, and things I
never want to handle! There are hard limits, things I've said I'm just not willing to do.
And there are soft limits, things I don't think I'm ready for but I'm willing to bump up
against them and see what happens. If I give up my safeword, it means I have limits, but
instead of telling her when I've reached them, I'm going to trust her to listen to me and
watch me and make that decision. I may say, I can't, I can't, I can't, and she may decide
I really can't. Or she may decide I've got more in me than I believe I do. There's a lot of
risk associated with that. But there's a trust in those moments and a closeness that does
not go away when the scene is over. Or ever, really. Risk and reward: we set our own
tolerances.

Some folks may have come across the term consensual nonconsent. It's one of those
terms with multiple meanings. Some people use it to describe any situation where the
bottom is saying no, don't but has not yet safeworded -- a usage I find less than useful.
Others use it to describe roleplays of nonconsensual situations. The last common usage,
though, is that which I like to describe using Hunter S. Thompson's phrase, buy the
ticket, take the ride.” It means that the bottom consents to be in a situation I've just
described, where the top decides if the bottom needs to stop, often but not always around
specific activities, and usually (wisely) heavily negotiated.

Clarisse Thorn:
When I give advice about setting safewords, I usually offer the following:

A) Some people like to say that it's good to use a safeword that's jolting, and is likely to
make your partner feel totally unsexy. Isn't there a Family Guy episode in which Lois &
Peter's safeword is banana or something?

Thomas MacAulay Millar:

Not a fan. The more obscure a safeword, the harder it is for a bottom who is spacey or
flying on endorphins to access it. It's easy to remember banana in the calm before the
storm. At the moment when it's most needed, that can easily become a muddle of
yellow? was it a fruit? Shit, what do I do? That's not a place bottoms want to find
themselves and a top never, never, never wants to have a bottom who is at a limit but
can't communicate about it.

Clarisse Thorn:

B) In my experience, the generally accepted safewords in the S&M community are

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018467
