the events that she had with these men so that he could potentially blackmail] them,” the court
filing said.

“One such powerful individual that Epstein forced then-minor Jane Doe #3 to have sexual
relations with was former Harvard Law Professor Alan Dershowitz, a close friend of Epstein’s
and well-known criminal defense attorney. Epstein required Jane Doe #3 to have sexual relations
with Dershowitz on numerous occasions while she was a minor, not only in Florida but also on
private planes, in New York, New Mexico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands,” the legal pleading
added.

Dershowitz called the allegations “totally made up and totally fabricated from beginning to end.”
He said he was not in the places described in the filing at the relevant times, with one exception:
he did visit Epstein’s private island in the Caribbean on one occasion.

“I was there with my family,” the renowned law professor said.

Dershowitz said in a follow-up interview after this post first appeared Wednesday that he's
planning to file bar complaints against Edwards and Cassell for inadequately vetting their client's
story.

I'm planning to file disbarment charges against the two lawyers who signed this petition without
even checking the manifests of airplanes or travel itineraries, et cetera, he said. I'm also
challenging the young woman and the lawyers to level those charges against me outside of the
courtroom, so that ] can sue them for defamation.....Finally, I’m challenging the woman to file
criminal charges against me because the filing of false criminal charges is a crime.

The motion accuses Prince Andrew of similar actions, asserting that “Jane Doe #3 was forced to
have sexual relations with this Prince when she was a minor in three separate geographical
locations: in London (at Ghislaine Maxwell’s apartment), in New York, and on Epstein’s private
island in the U.S. Virgin Islands (in an orgy with numerous other under-aged girls).”

Previous press accounts have reported on Prince Andrew’s friendship with Epstein, who was
known as a philanthropist and supporter of scientific research before the criminal investigations
began nearly a decade ago. However, the earlier accounts stopped short of accusing the prince of
sexual involvement with girls Epstein procured. In a 2011 Vanity Fair story, Prince Andrew
denied any such contact.

While a Buckingham Palace spokesman did not respond to POLITICO's query about the matter
on Wednesday, the palace issued a denial to several British news outlets Friday. This relates to
long-standing and ongoing civil proceedings in the United States, to which The Duke of York is
not a party. As such we would not comment on the detail, However, for the avoidance of doubt,
any suggestion of impropriety with underage minors is categorically untrue, the statement said.

Prosecutors said in a 2007 draft letter they'd identified 40 young women who could be

considered victims of Epstein’s illegal acts. Many of them filed lawsuits or claims against
Epstein and reached out-of-court settlements for amounts that were not disclosed.

EXHIBIT R

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012033
