frustrating and (so far) inconclusive nature of the Libyan
intervention.

However, the Syrian conflict also needs to be seen in the context of a
generation-long experiment with liberal interventionism. That era
began in 1991, when the collapse of the Soviet Union left the US as
the world’s sole superpower and a swift victory in the first Gulf war
restored confidence in the power and effectiveness of American
military might. Since then, the debate about how and when to use
military power has waxed and waned. Western governments chastised
themselves over the failure to protect the Kurds and the Shia in Iraq
in 1991, over the Rwandan genocide of 1994 and over the many
years of dithering as lives were lost in the Balkans. But a series of
apparently successful interventions — Bosnia, Kosovo, East Timor,
Sierra Leone — gradually strengthened the belief that western military
power could be used to end conflicts and save civilians.

The bitter experiences of the Afghan and Iraq wars, however, shifted
the debate on military intervention once more. Both Barack Obama in
the US and David Cameron in Britain promised to be leaders who
would adopt a much more cautious attitude to foreign military
adventures. Then along came the Arab spring and western leaders
once again found themselves committing to military action, this time
in Libya — Mr Obama with evident reluctance, Mr Cameron and
President Nicolas Sarkozy of France with apparent enthusiasm.

The Libyan war illustrates how unfolding events can force a political
leader’s hand. That could still happen in Syria. But it seems much
more likely that, this time, the west will stand aside.

In part, this is because of deadlock at the UN, where Russia and
China — angry about the Libyan war — are blocking efforts to pass a
resolution that even condemns events in Syria, let alone prepares the
ground for intervention. However the broader context is the west’s
diminishing ability and willingness to intervene at all.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031884
