European riots of 1848 were another such example. Or the ideological and military
surging of 1939. Our very own age. There is a feeling of this sort of inevitable
punctuation in what is underway around us now, the insertion of a single period at
the end of one era and the first, italicized letters of a new one. Impulses and
connections we don’t fully understand and can’t yet control are at play. Our
imagination is beggared too now. Often. These forces are, we have to confess, wiping
away one system. But they are also producing another.

What I mean by the Seventh Sense is the ability to see both these old and the new
worlds around us, to feel too the real and the virtual - and to know power as it flows
through and between each. Rattling one apart. Enlivening another. I don’t mean here
blinding technological optimism; nor do | mean absurd conservative historicism.
The Seventh Sense is the ability to contemplate politics, economics, warfare,
innovation, genomics now - really every hot-connected discipline and sense in one
glance the new and the old power, and of course the fault lines running between
them. Connected and yet-to-be-linked. Colliding. Melding. Repelling. Our future will
be less an isolated technological paradise than an intermingling of real and virtual. It
will not be an age of blacked-out virtual reality goggles like Oculus Rift or the
blinding and submersive feeling of novels like Ready Player One but, | think, a bit
more like a semi-transparent screen, on which real and virtual worlds mash
together. Hololens or Magic Leap glasses that project virtual images on the real
world, for instance. Or the feeling of Snowcrash, Neal Stephenson’s masterpiece
novel whose charaters move effortlessly between net and city. Maybe even
(probably most accurately) the game Ingress, in which the reality of streets and
buildings and homes was augmented into a giant chessboard and populated by
hundreds of thousands of us in the last few years. These cultural landmarks matter,
they are worth learning about and exploring. They stand out as trailguides to a fresh
sensibility in the same way Nijinsky’s 20 century dances or Goethe’s 19 century
poetry once did.

We flip back and forth between real and virtual in our every day lives now, popping
our head from screen to street. Our art, our music, our finances - they make the
same passage. To see both fields at once, to see the way they blend and pull on each
other, does demand a new sensibility, of course. And though, eventually, this new
instinct will be commonplace, for now at least it must be defined, refined, and
learned by each of us. Like Napoleon looking at a battlfield and discovering how to
spot the violent potential of industrial war. Or, Einstein reaching the deeper,
invisible truths of physics as he left Newton behind: “There is no logical path to
these laws,” he wrote later of the leaps that had carried him to relativity, “only
intuition.”® This is what Nan was trying to point to; the need to train an instinct for
the epochal changes ahead. Whether the future that emerges from our simultaneous
confrontation with real and network phenomenae will produce a speed-blasted
information paradise or a terrifying dystopia is hard to say now. That will be
decided largely by choices made in the next couple of decades. It will be decided by

8 Or, Einstein: Einstein, Albert, Essays in Science (New York: Philosophical Library,
1934), 4

16

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018248
