“! hope that the case will ultimately set an important precedent that federal prosecutors can't keep
victims in the dark about the plea deals that they reach. Cassell said.

Epstein served 13 months of an 18-month sentence on the prostitution charge. sold his Palm
Beach home in 2011 and now divides his time between a New York City home. a Caribbean
island and an apartment in Paris, according to court documents. He also has a large New Mexico
ranch,

He donates huge sums each year, particularly toward projects involving new medical treatments
and artificial intelligence, His foundation established a Harvard University program that uses
mathematics to study evolutionary biology. viruses and disease.

According to lawsuits filed by some of his accusers. Epstein relied on assistants to recruit
underage girls to give him massages and perform sex acts. They were usually paid about $200.

Some girls were notified about the investigation beginning in 2006, But they weren't told about
the negotiations with federal prosecutors for at least nine months, despite a requirement in the
Crime Victims' Rights Act that they be kept informed. The two women — who were 13 and 14
when the alleged assaults occurred — sued for the files and won.

Although plea negotiations are vital to the functioning of the criminal justice system. a
prosecutor and target of a criminal prosecution do not enjoy a relationship of confidence and
trust when they negotiate.” the appeals court said.

Federal prosecutors have begun turning over the documents,

Epstein's atlomey. Roy Black, the celebrity lawyer who is also representing Justin Bieber in his
DU] and resisting-arrest case in Miami Beach, declined to comment but has asked that the
documents be kept from public view, and so far they have been.

Ina May 23 court filing, Black said that there was no conspiracy between prosecutors and
Epstein’s team to violate the victims’ rights law and that the non-prosecution agreement
contained many provisions Epstein strongly opposed. such as registering as a sex offender and
agreeing not to contest certain lawsuits.

This was no sweetheart deal by any stretch of the imagination. Black said in court papers.

Even if a judge invalidates the plea deal, it will still be up to federal prosecutors to decide what
to do.

The court can't force the prosecutors to bring charges. said Matt Alexrod, a former federal
prosecutor now in private practice in Washington.

26

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011937
