4, Edwards is Entitled to Summary Judgment to the Extent His Claim is Based
On Pursuit of Discovery Concerning Epstein’s Friends Because All Such
Efforts Were Reasonably Calculated to Lead to Relevant and Admissible
Testimony About Epstein’s Abuse of Minor Girls.

Epstein has also alleged that Edwards improperly pursued discovery from some his close
friends. Such discovery, Epstein claims, was improper because Edwards knew that these
ined iets lacked any discoverable information about the sexual assault cases against Epstein.

| Here again, Edwards is entitled to summary judgment, as each of the friends of Epstein
were reasonably believed to possess discoverable information. The undisputed facts show the
following with regard to each of the persons raised in Epstein’s complaint:

| e With regard to Donald Trump, Edwards had sound legal basis for believing Mr.

Trump had relevant and discoverable information. See Statement of Undisputed
Facts.

e With regard to Alan Dershowitz (Harvard Law Professor), Edwards had sound
legal basis for believing Mr. Dershowitz had relevant and discoverable
information. See Statement of Undisputed Facts.

e With regard to former President Bill Clinton, Edwards had sound legal basis for
believing former President Clinton had relevant and discoverable information.
See Statement of Undisputed Facts.

e With regard to former Sony Record executive Tommy Mottola, Edwards was not

the attorney that noticed Mr. Mottola’s deposition. See Statement of Undisputed
Facts,

e With regard to illusionist David Copperfield, Edwards had sound legal basis for
believing Mr. Copperfield had relevant and discoverable information. See
Statement of Undisputed Facts.

e With regard to former New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson, Edwards had
sound legal basis for naming Former New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson on
his witness list. See Statement of Undisputed Facts.

It is worth noting that the standard for discovery is a very liberal one. To notice someone

for a deposition, of course, it is not required that the person deposed actually end up producing

14

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013383
