l11.7.A.10 — Compare the fame of multiple individuals.

Having identified the best name candidate for every individual, we use the word frequency time series of
this name as a metric for the fame of the each individual. We now compare the fame of multiple
individuals on the basis of the properties of their fame signal. For this analysis, we group people
according to specific characteristics, which in the context of this work are the years of birth and the
respective occupations.

10) Assemble cohorts on the basis of a shared record property.
a. Fetch all records which match a specific record property, such as year of birth or
occupation.
b. Create fame cohorts comparing the fame of individuals born in the same year.
i. Use average lifetime fame ranking, done on the basis of the average fame as
computed from the birth of the individual to the year 2000.
c. Create fame cohorts for individuals with the same occupation.
i. Use most famous 20 year, ranking on the basis of the 20 best year in the
terms of fame for the individual.

III.7B. Cohorts of fame

For each year, we defined a cohort of the top 50 most famous individuals born that year. Individual fame
was measured in this case by the average frequency over all years after one's birth. We can compute
cohorts on the basis of names from Wikipedia, or Encyclopedia Britannica. In Figure 5, we used cohorts
computed with names from Wikipedia.

At each time point, we defined the frequency of the cohort as the median value of the frequencies of all
individuals in the cohort.

For each cohort, we define:

(1) Age of initial celebrity. This is the first age when the cohort's frequency is greater than 10-9. This
corresponds to the point at which the median individual in the cohort enter the English lexicon as
defined in the first section of the paper.

(2) Age of peak celebrity. This is the first age when the cohort's frequency is greater than 95% of its peak
value. This definition is meant to diminish the noise that exists on the exact position of the peak value of
the cohort's frequency.

(3) Doubling time of fame. We compute the exponential rate at which fame increases between the ‘age of
fame' and the 'age of peak fame’. To do so, we fit an exponential to the timeseries with the methods of
least squares. The doubling time is derived from the estimated exponent.

(4) Half-life of fame. We compute the exponential rate at which fame decreases past the year at which it
reaches its peak (which is later than the age of peak celebrity as defined above). To do so, we fit an
exponential to the timeseries with the methods of least squares. The half-life is derived from the
estimated exponent.

We show the way these parameters change with the cohort’s year of birth in Figure $13.

The dynamics of these quantities is sensibly the same when using cohorts from Wikipedia or from
Encyclopedia Britannica. However, Britannica features fewer individuals in their cohorts, and therefore the
cohorts from the early 49 century are much noisier. We show in Figure $14 the fame analysis
conducted with cohorts from Britannica, restricting our analysis to the years 1840-1950.

In Figure 5E, we analyze the trade-offs between early celebrity and overall fame as a function of
occupation. For each occupation, we select the top 25 most famous individuals born between 1800 and
1920. For each occupation, we define the contour within which all points are close to at least 2 member of
the cohort (it is the contour of the density map created by the cohort).

25

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017033
