nightmare. Olivia wanted to pay them, but it's not the easiest proposition. Then there was
the question of paying off her debts. Some were simple enough, but then there were loans
co-signed by her parents, and there was no way she could make any headway on those
loans without talking to her parents... so Olivia had to maintain the fiction that she
couldn't pay.

That was nothing compared to the complexities of feelings and communication, though.
I've already shown you how hard it was, sometimes, for Olivia to talk about money with
her clients. There are other, subtler problems that are hard to handle with empathy: for
example, creating the Girlfriend Experience persona.

I've talked to sex workers who enjoy creating a sexy dreamgirl shell on behalf of their
clients. One of them said to me: I create that persona for my boyfriends anyway. It's nice
to be paid for it. But as a feminist sex writer who's spent years working to understand
my own sexual authenticity, this freaks me out a bit. I think it would feel terribly toxic
and inauthentic for me.

It often felt inauthentic to Olivia, for sure, and that got harder and harder. These men are
very invested in believing that I'm super into this, she told me once. I have to keep up
the front, and make them feel like I'm interested all the time. It's literally my job to do
that. When they tell me how happy I am, or when they inform me that I'm enjoying
myself, I can't really contradict them, even if it's not true. Some of them use words like
‘magical’ to describe me, but the person they're describing is not really me. Sometimes I
think these guys pay me because in a non-professional relationship, a woman might push
back when he says those things. She might contradict his idea of her too much.

In fairness, Olivia naturally fits one glam stereotype of the middle-class sex worker: the
sexually adventurous young student. It's such a widely-promoted stereotype that
experienced sex worker activists speak derisively about it, and some escorts lie and say
that they fit the profile when they don't. Presumably, clients enjoy believing that a girl is
a sexually adventurous college student because it capitalizes on images of sexy coeds” --
and convinces the client that she's not being emotionally harmed by the work. (I've often
thought that it's way past time for fair trade prostitution, where sex trade ethics are
made into a competitive advantage. I've also thought that the most feminist thing I could
ever do would be to open a brothel where all the sex workers are treated well. Too bad it's
illegal.)

Of course, SeekingArrangement.com actively encourages the idea that a real
relationship can emerge from these arrangements. (In our previous interview, Olivia
pointed out the SeekingArrangement blog post Sugar Baby & Sugar Daddy: The
Modern Day Princess & Prince? Another interesting one is called Sugar Babies Do Fall
In Love.) While some guys on the site really do just want to pay for straight-up sex,
some become emotionally invested in the women whose company they buy. And we can
tell from Olivia's experiences negotiating payment that a lot of guys don't like thinking
about how they're paying for it.

Bottom line: more than one of Olivia's clients were into her for real, and she felt more
and more uncomfortable about it as time passed. One man took a surreptitious photo of
her and hung it on the center of his otherwise-bare refrigerator. Another client made faux-

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018615
