14

role for the world’s 1.2 billion Muslims — more than | billion of
whom are Sunni — as the birthplace of Islam and home of the two
holiest cities. Politically, its leaders enjoy broad domestic support,
and a growing nationalism has knitted the historically tribal country
more closely together. This is largely why widespread protests, much
anticipated by Western media in March, never materialized. As the
world’s sole energy superpower and the de facto central banker of the
global energy markets, Riyadh is the economic powerhouse of the
Middle East, representing 25 percent of the combined gross domestic
product of the Arab world. The kingdom has amassed more than
$550 billion in foreign reserves and is spending more than $150
billion to improve infrastructure, public education, social services
and health care. To counter the threats posed by Iran and
transnational terrorist networks, the Saudi leadership is authorizing
more than $100 billion of additional military spending to modernize
ground forces, upgrade naval capabilities and more. The kingdom 1s
doubling its number of high-quality combat aircraft and adding
60,000 security personnel to the Interior Ministry forces. Plans are
underway to create a “Special Forces Command,” based on the U.S.
model, to unify the kingdom’s various special forces if needed for
rapid deployment abroad. Saudi Arabia has the will and the means to
meet its expanded global responsibilities. In some issues, such as
counterterrorism and efforts to fight money laundering, the Saudis
will continue to be a strong U.S. partner. In areas in which Saudi
national security or strategic interests are at stake, the kingdom will
pursue its own agenda. With Iran working tirelessly to dominate the
region, the Muslim Brotherhood rising in Egypt and unrest on nearly
every border, there is simply too much at stake for the kingdom to
rely on a security policy written in Washington, which has backfired
more often than not and spread instability. The special relationship

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031847
