ht and 4(+) have been analogized to what is called algorithmic complexity,

which quantifies a computer algorithm’s minimal representation of a symbol
sequence as it grows longer (Chaitin, 1974; Bennett, C.H., 1982; Nicolis, 1986;
Rissanen, 1982; Crutchfield and Young, 1989b). Examples of applications of a
pseudocomputational compression scheme have quantified differences among
protein sequences (Ebling and Jimenez-Montano, 1980), discriminated therapist-
directed “transference” manifestations in verbally encoded processes in
psychotherapy (Rapp et al, 1991), characterized neural spike train patterns in a
penicillin kindled spike focus (Rapp et al, 1994), differentiated among spike
sequence patterns of biogenic amine families of brain stem neurons (Mandell and
Selz, 1994) and as a sample length-dependent rate, in content-free, mouse driven
computer tasks differentiated borderline from obsessive-compulsive personality
patterns (Selz and Mandell, 1997).

Computation of lexical complexity is a good example of this approach. This
procedure recursively surveys the sequence of symbols for the longest word, where
“words” are subsequences that appear at least three times if they contain two letters
or at least twice if they contain more than two letters. Upon finding a longest
repeated word, the compression algorithm replaces all occurances of this word with
a single distinct (new) symbol and looks again for the longest repeated word in the
modified sequence. When the sequence cannot be further recursively compressed,
there may remain identical adjacent symbols in the sequence. These are coded as
the symbol raised to the power of the number of its adjacent occurances. This
exponent cannot exceed five because six adjacent identical symbols would be two
occurances of a three letter word. The numerical value of the lexical complexity is
simply the sum of the number of distinct symbols and the (sum of the) logarithm of

the exponents of the symbol sequences (Ebling and Jimenez-Montano, 1980).

A clear account of algorithmic and lexical complexity in relationship to other
measures of “complexity” in the context of brain relevant research data can be
found in Rapp and Schmah (1996). The relationship between thermodynamic and

ergodic, measure theories in relationship to forced-dissipative dynamics and the

244

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013744
