KR L
PI L

AC EL
CA TA

Cannabis Investment Report | December 2017

the U.S. market will exceed $100 billion annually, with more than 50 million consumers. Globally, we
estimate that the legal cannabis market has the potential to reach $500 billion annually, approaching
one billion consumers.

The Global Legal Cannabis Market

Cannabis legalization is gaining momentum around the world. This momentum is driven primarily by
the increasing recognition that cannabis may have a range of legitimate medicinal benefits and thera-
peutic applications. At least 20 countries now have medical laws that facilitate patient access to can-
nabis or cannabis concentrates for treating specified medical conditions. Notable countries with such
medical laws include Australia, Canada, Colombia and Germany; countries without such laws include
China, Japan, Russia and the United States. (Contrary to U.S. federal law, 29 states, encompassing
62% of the U.S. population, permit the production and possession of cannabis or concentrates for use
in treating a broad range of qualifying medical conditions.) While the merits of medical cannabis are
currently driving legalization, we believe that—like Uruguay and numerous U.S. states—other coun-
tries will ultimately enact legislation permitting the production, sale and use of recreational cannabis.
(Canada is widely expected to do so in mid-2018.)

The following world map illustrates select countries that (i) have enacted medical laws that facilitate
patient access to cannabis or concentrates for treating specified medical conditions, (ii) have enacted
recreational laws that permit the commercial production and sale of cannabis to adults for recreational
and other uses, or (iii) include a state or province that has a cannabis law or policy in conflict with
federal law.

Select Countries with Legalized Cannabis Access (January 2018)

&

GE Recreational Law* <
ES Medical Law

( State/Province Conflict
with Federal Law

*Canada currently has a medical law. Assumes Canada enacts a proposed recreational law in mid-2018.

2 © 2017 Ackrell Capital, LLC | Member FINRA/SIPC

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024638
