16. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

Certain key terms of the following related party transactions of the Company, which are subject to and
qualified in their entirety by reference to their respective underlying documentation as applicable, are
outlined below. Copies of such documentation have been provided or are available upon request, and
the summaries below are qualified in their entirety by reference to such documentation.

16.1. Real Estate Support Management Agreement of Knowledge Learning Corporation

KLC entered into a Real Estate Support Management Agreement with Greenstreet Real Estate Partners
(formerly Greenstreet Realty Partners, L.P.}, an entity controlled by the Principals, on January 4, 2006,
pursuant to which KLC obtains certain real property support services from Greenstreet Real Estate
Partners. The Agreement is non-exclusive and the Company may consider and solicit proposals from
other entities. Payment obligations are to be provided for in separate agreernents, none of which have
been entered into as of the date of this Memorandum. The initial term of the Agreement expires on
December 31, 2016 (with automatic one-year extensions unless notice is given to the other party). The
Agreement can be terminated by either party for convenience on December 31 in any year or for breach
with prior written notice.

16.2. Fixed Overhead Payment Agreement

As reimbursement of expenses incurred by KULG, an affiliate of the Company controlled by the
Principals, on behalf of KUE and its subsidiaries (including salaries and bonuses of KULG employees
providing services to KUE and its subsidiaries, fees and expenses relating to financing transactions and
acquisitions, professional fees and other administrative expenses), KUE has an obligation to pay $20
million annually to KULG in quarterly installments beginning July 1, 2006 pursuant to the Fixed Overhead
Payment Agreement. Of this amount, $2.5 million will be paid to KUE by KLC pursuant to the existing
Management Services Agreement described below.

16.3. Note Payable to KULG by KU Education, Inc.

On January 6, 2005, KUE Inc. executed a promissory note in favor cf KULG, an entity controlled by the
Principals, in the amount of $200.0 million, the proceeds of which were used in connection with the
acquisition of KinderCare by KLC. This note has a seven year maturity and accrues interest at the
reference rate set by Bank of America plus 1.25% per annum. The note may be prepaid, in whole or in
part, without any premium or penalty. KUE Inc. currently owes approximately $183.9 million under the
note.

16.4. Asset Management Agreements with Greenstreet Real Estate Partners (formerly
Greenstreet Realty Partners, L.P.)

Greenstreet Real Estate Partners (formerly Greenstreet Realty Partners, L.P.), an entity controlled by the
Principals, entered into asset management agreements dated as of November 9, 2005 with each of KC
PropCo Holding | LLC (“PropCo Holding”), KC PropCo, LLC (“PropCo”) and Mini-Skools Limited (“MSL”),
each an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of KLC, pursuant to which Greenstreet Real Estate Partners
provides asset management and consulting services to PropCo Holding, PropCo and MSL with respect fo
the reai property each company respectively owns, in return for a total annuai fee of $8,250,000 payable
in 12 equal monthly installments starting December 1, 2005. The initial term expires on December 31,
2016 (with automatic one-year extensions unless notice is given to the other party}, and the Agreement
can be terminated for breach with prior written notice.

133

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024566
