32

After the last bomb falls there will be a new reality in the region and
beyond.

In the short term, there would be consequences in the military,
diplomatic, economic and social domains. The intensity and locus of
these consequences would depend on the outcome of the attack and
conflict, but there would be “battle damage” in all domains. Short-
term consequences would likely include a tense and unstable military
situation (unless the conflict ended cleanly) that would require the
commitment of forces for monitoring and reacting to emergent
threats; and also a potential political crisis in the region propelled by
instability and uncertainty about the future, including residual Iranian
capabilities to retaliate directly or indirectly.16 The oil market would
remain in shock for some time after an attack. Naval mines, wartime
damage to facilities and irregular attacks on facilities or tankers
would see to that. Social turmoil would be likely as various
population groups react to the attack and subsequent conflict. In
short, there would be no bright line ending the war in the economic,
diplomatic and social realms.

To turn to the long-term consequences, Iran would almost certainly
remain a major player in its region. Its adjustment to the war and its
outcome would have a major role in shaping regional realities. A
beaten, humiliated but still defiant Iran with essentially the same
political system and approach to the region and the world would be a
long-term, growing danger similar to Iraq after the First Gulf War (or
Germany after World War I). This would extend beyond the military
to include dangers in the other domains.

The first conclusion we should draw from this exercise is that the
U.S. government should be prepared for a long and difficult conflict
if it ultimately decides it must attack Iran. An attack might end
quickly with few complications if Iran acts “rationally.”” We may not
like what that means, however: One “rational” ending for the Iranians

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018116
