Internal Controls Provision

The payment of bribes often occurs in companies that
have weak internal control environments. Internal controls
over financial reporting are the processes used by compa-
nies to provide reasonable assurances regarding the reliabil-
ity of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements. They include various components, such as: a
control environment that covers the tone set by the organi-
zation regarding integrity and ethics; risk assessments; con-
trol activities that cover policies and procedures designed
to ensure that management directives are carried out (c.g.,
approvals, authorizations, reconciliations, and segregation
of duties); information and communication; and monitor-
ing. Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act (15 US.C.
§ 78m(b)(2)(B)), commonly called the “internal controls”

provision, requires issuers to:

devise and maintain a system of internal accounting
controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances
that—

(i) transactions are executed in accordance with man-
agement’s general or specific authorization;

(ii) transactions are recorded as necessary (I) to per-
mit preparation of financial statements in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles or any
other criteria applicable to such statements, and (II)
to maintain accountability for assets;

(iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance
with management’s general or specific authorization;
and

(iv) the recorded accountability for assets is com-
pared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals
and appropriate action is taken with respect to any

differences ....?73

Like the “reasonable detail” requirement in the
books and records provision, the Act defines “reasonable
assurances” as “such level of detail and degree of assurance
as would satisfy prudent officials in the conduct of their
own affairs.”?*

The Act does not specify a particular set of controls
that companies are required to implement. Rather, the
internal controls provision gives companies the flexibility
to develop and maintain a system of controls that is appro-

priate to their particular needs and circumstances.

The FCPA:

Accounting Provisions

An effective compliance program is a critical com-
ponent of an issuer’s internal controls. Fundamentally,
the design of a company’s internal controls must take into
account the operational realities and risks attendant to the
company’s business, such as: the nature of its products or
services; how the products or services get to market; the
nature of its work force; the degree of regulation; the extent
of its government interaction; and the degree to which it
has operations in countries with a high risk of corruption. A
company’s compliance program should be tailored to these
differences. Businesses whose operations expose them to a
high risk of corruption will necessarily devise and employ
different internal controls than businesses that have a lesser
exposure to corruption, just as a financial services company
would be expected to devise and employ different internal
controls than a manufacturer.

A 2008 case against a German manufacturer of indus-
trial and consumer products illustrates a systemic internal
controls problem involving bribery that was unprecedented
in scale and geographic reach. From 2001 to 2007, the com-

pany created elaborate payment schemes—including slush

Companies with ineffective internal
controls often face risks of embezzlement
and self-dealing by employees, commercial
bribery, export control problems, and

violations of other U.S. and local laws.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022542

