Equity styles

UBS view Prefer mid caps in US, large caps in Europe

° We believe that medium-sized companies (mid caps) will outperform large caps in the US. US economic
data is forecast to stabilize and then show moderate economic growth in the second half of 2012 and into
2013. The greater domestic sales exposure of US mid caps reduces the earnings risk coming from Europe.

e In Europe, we prefer companies with a large market capitalization (large caps) over ones with a small one
(small caps) in the current very challenging economic environment. Small caps generate more sales in
Continental Europe than large caps. Thus, they are more negatively affected by weak domestic demand.
Small caps also have a more cyclical earnings exposure than large caps.

¢ Globally, high-quality dividend paying stocks promise to provide a real and stable income stream to
investors in the current low-yield environment. Furthermore, they give exposure to the long-term potential
of equity markets while tending to suffer less in declining markets.

A Positive scenario Prefer value, low quality and small caps

e Leading indicators continue to move higher, and risks related to the Eurozone debt crisis subside. In this
case, add deep cyclical value (cheap price/book, price/earnings) regardless of the sector, with high beta and
high leverage. In such an environment, small and mid-cap stocks should also perform well. A dividend
strategy would be too defensive to outperform the market.

& Negative scenario Prefer quality and large caps

¢ The global economic picture deteriorates markedly. In this case, buy high-quality growth companies and
large caps. Do not look for value opportunities, but be as defensive as possible with your equity exposure.
Look to high-quality, dividend-paying stocks for yield.

Note: Scenarios refer to global economic scenarios (see slide 7).

What we're watching Why it matters

Earnings revisions — see
chart
(3-month moving

average upgrades vs.
downgrades)

Watch for signs of improvement in earnings revisions (aggregated from stock
level). An improved earnings outlook would cause investors to add more risk -
influencing our preferences among equity styles.

US and Eurozone PMls PMls are important for earnings generation and preferences for value, growth

and size. Key dates: Nov 2, PMI manufacturing Eurozone (final); Nov 1,
US ISM manufacturing

2 UBS

For further information please contact ClO's asset class specialist Christopher Wright, christopher-zb.wright@ubs.com

Regional differentiation

e In the US, we prefer mid caps to large
caps. Moderate economic growth should
support their earnings generation.

e In the US, there are opportunities in value
names that also show strong growth.

e Within Europe, we avoid small caps and
instead rotate into large caps.

Strategic (1 to 2 years)

e We expect value strategies to outperform
the European market over a multi-year
time horizon.

e Mid-cap stocks provide attractive
opportunities over the longer term.

Avoid small caps and favor large caps
in Europe
DJ STOXX small over large and business

confidence
1.3 10
{ )
1.2 0
14 (5)
(10)
1.0 (15)
Large caps (20)
09 ' outperforming (95)
os (30)
(35)
o7 (40)

2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012

=—— Small cap over large cap Eurozone business sentiment (rhs)

Source: Thomson Reuters, UBS, as of September 29, 2012

Note: Past performance is no indication for future returns.

21

Please see important disclaimer and disclosures at the end of the document.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025268
