BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH TOOLS & INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT STRATEGY

NLV-III’s investment strategy in Biological Research Tools and Infrastructure will focus on
identifying companies that are at or near the commercial stage with novel products targeting
established, high growth markets -- such as DNA sequencing and personalized medicine. The
products of interest will be those based on differentiated technologies that offer higher quality
biological results at significant cost savings to customers than current products. The investment
theses for these companies will be based on rapidly building high-gross margins businesses that
reach break-even on manageable timelines and limited capital budgets. An example of a tools
company in the New Leaf portfolio is Advanced Cellular Diagnostics (NLV-II, commercial
stage).

Research tools and infrastructure technology companies are benefiting from several positive
healthcare industry tailwinds. Technology advancements over the past decade, such as genomic
sequencing and personalized diagnostics, have generated the need for additional reagents and
instruments to efficiently interrogate vast amounts of biological samples and process massive
quantities of resulting data. Unlike biopharmaceutical or medical device product development,
these new reagents are not subject to the risks of costly clinical trials, regulatory approvals and
payer reimbursement. Thus, timelines are more manageable and predictable, and budgets are
much more capital efficient. In fact, in this sector, the Fund Managers expect to identify
opportunities for investment in technologies that have been largely de-risked, are commercial-
ready, and can be funded to profitability on VC dollars. While substantial commercial adoption
will likely be required for most companies in this sector to be acquired, given the high margins,
rapid sales adoption, and relatively low sales and marketing costs, funding the launch of a new
tool or technology in this sector can represent an attractive risk-reward investment.

This dynamic sector is growing rapidly and small companies have been a prolific source of
innovative new products for the large, established companies that dominate the commercial
distribution channels. The Fund will approach this sector opportunistically and will invest in a
small number of companies with novel and clearly differentiated products targeting sectors of
rapid growth that are at or near the commercial stage.

The Fund Managers expect investments in this sector and the medical device sector to comprise
up to 15% of the Fund.

42 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024053
