The Russians Are Coming | 233

it targets Tor software. It even offered a cash prize to anyone in the
hacking community who could break Tor. Prior to 2013, according
to cyber-security experts, it spent over a decade building cyber tools
aimed at unraveling the Tor networks used by hacktivists, criminal
enterprises, political dissidents, and rival intelligence operatives. To
this end, it reportedly attempted to map out computers that served
as major Tor exit nodes (such as the one Snowden operated in 2012
near an NSA regional base in Hawaii). It also reportedly attached
the equivalent of “electronic ink” to messages, which would allow
it to trace the path of messages that passed through them. Through
this technology, it could tag and follow Tor users as their commu-
nications traveled across the Internet. It could even borrow their
Internet identities. To be sure, the NSA also had such a capability.
The Silk Road founder, Ross Ulbricht, discovered to his distress that
his Tor software did not make his computer server in Iceland invis-
ible. According to a former top official in the Justice Department, the
NSA was able to locate it by cracking the Tor software (Ulbricht is
currently serving a life sentence for his activities). Unlike adversary

© services, however, the NSA needs a warrant to investigate U.S. citi- ®
zens who use Tor.

The NSA is hardly immune from an attack on its own computers.
As the former CIA deputy director Morell wrote in his 2015 book,
The Great War of Our Time, many financial institutions have “better
cyber security than the NSA.” The Internet certainly helped make
the activities of U.S. intelligence workers visible to the SVR.

But to achieve its goals, the SVR still had to find at least one dis-
gruntled civilian contractor inside the NSA who had access to the
sealed-off computer networks. Did it find its man? If so, was it before
or after Snowden arrived in Hong Kong with the Level 3 NSA files?

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.indd 233 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019721
