Fittuy Ricw
ATTERSON

ssage. But I had to take off my | “Would you agree with me that Prince Andrew and Jeffrey

me. It hurt. I started to bleed, and | Epstein used to share underaged girls for sexual relations?” Kel-

wie? len is asked.

_ “We're going to arrest this man. 4 “On the instructions of my lawyer,” Kellen replies, “I must
u can testify.” . invoke my Fifth Amendment privilege.”

seal ° q : “Have you ever been made to perform sexually on Prince

Andrew?” lawyers ask Marcinkova.
“Fifth” is Nadia’s simple, succinct reply.

embarrassments, many of which | That same week, the government downgrades Prince Andrew’s
nds. The wedding of Prince Wil- 4 q role as Great Britain’s royal trade envoy. But the British press is
yproaching, and the ongoing trou- “® tenacious, and in the Telegraph, the Guardian, and elsewhere,
: Prince Andrew keep threatening stories appear on a daily basis:

{arch 6, a spokesperson for Sarah
in paid off part of the seventy-eight
tchess borrowed from a man who

e The Duke, His Paedophile Guest, and the Most Unusual
Use of an RAF Base

e Andrew’s Secret Love Life Revealed

¢ Royal Connections: Prince Andrew and the Paedophile Are
Suddenly the Talk of New York

* Time to Show This Right Royal Clown the Door

° An Odd Trio: The Royal Trade Envoy, the Teenage Mas-
seuse and the Fixer

“ g
appear in the Telegraph and other

“APPEALED TO JEFFREY EPSTEIN TO HELP a

f myself, deeply — that Jeffrey
ny way with me,” Prince Andrews ©
ibhor paedophilia and any sexual | ° No. 10 Struggles to Contain Row Over Prince
that this was a gigantic error of ___ ° From Royal Asset to National Liability

E: | * Royal Blush
* Duke Could Be Called to Two Epstein Trials
* It’s the Company You Keep... The Duke’s Dangerous Liaisons
* Nothing Grand About This Old Duke of York
he ongoing civil lawsuits 484 * The Royal Family Has Feared a Blow-Up Over Duke’s
Nadia Marcinkova are both aské : Choice of Friends For Years
ons with Epstein. q | * Our Less-Than-Grand Old Duke of York

cannot say. Whenever I can I will
we nothing ever to do with Jetfrey

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022136
