180 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

out his knowledge, just as he had copied them without the NSA’s
knowledge. As former U.S. intelligence officers pointed out to me,
adversary services could not be expected to shirk from employing
their full capabilities once they learned that an American “agent of
special services,” as Putin called him, had brought stolen NSA docu-
ments to Hong Kong.

The Times reported from Hong Kong that two sources, both of
whom worked for major government intelligence agencies, “said
they believed that the Chinese government had managed to drain
the contents” of the laptop that Snowden brought to Hong Kong.
That China had the capability to obtain Snowden’s data was also
the view of the former CIA deputy director Morell. He said, “Both
the Chinese and the Russians would have used everything in their
tool kit—from human approaches to technical attacks—to get at
Snowden’s stolen data.”

Snowden would not have been a particularly difficult target for
them, especially after he started disclosing secrets to journalists at
the Mira hotel. Not only could the Chinese service approach the

® security staff at the Mira, but they could track him after he left the ©
hotel and moved, along with his computers, in and out of several
residences arranged by his carer. Snowden, after all, had put himself
in the hands of people whom he had never met before, including
three Hong Kong lawyers, a carer, and three Guardian journalists.
It is likely that the efforts of these adversary intelligence services to
find him, and the NSA data, would further intensify after Snowden
revealed to the South China Morning Post on June 12 that he had
access to NSA lists of computers in China and elsewhere that the
NSA had penetrated.

It wouldn’t be only the Chinese service on his trail. The Rus-
sian intelligence service would also likely be tasked to acquire these
NSA documents after Snowden’s meeting with Russian officials in
Hong Kong. And while he could get away with giving coy and elu-
sive answers to journalists who asked him about the whereabouts of
the NSA data, the Russian and Chinese officials in Hong Kong who
could offer him an escape route from prison would likely demand
more specific answers about the whereabouts of data they had not
already obtained by technical means.

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 180 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019668
