media outlet in exchange for your statements (whether on the record or off the record)
regarding Jeffrey Epstein, Alan M. Dershowitz, Prince Andrew, Duke of York, and/or being a sex
slave.” Whether Jane Doe No. 3 has interacted with the media has nothing to do with the Florida
Defamation Action. As explained above, a non-party’s personal financial information and other
confidential information is subject to protection by this Court. See Woodward v. Berkery, 714 So.
2d 1027, 1034-38 (Fla. 4th DCA 1998). Accordingly, the requests relating to financial
information from this non-party should be quashed’,

d. Category 4 — Plainly Privileged Communications

Defendant’s subpoena requests seek documents that are plainly privileged. Florida courts
are unequivocal in stating that an opposing party can never obtain attorney-client privileged
materials. See Quarles & Brady LLP v. Birdsall, 802 So. 2d 1205, 1206 (Fla. 2d DCA 2002)
(quashing discovery order and noting “undue hardship is not an exception (to disclosure of
privileged material), nor is disclosure permitted because the opposing party claims that the
privileged information is necessary to prove their case.”’) (internal citations omitted). Non-party,
Jane Doe No. 3, objects to all of Defendant’s subpoena requests to the extent that they seek
documents protected by the attorney client privilege, work product doctrine, joint defense and
common interest privileges and any other relevant privilege. Indeed, Jane Doe No. 3 should be
protected from responding to Request no. 25 in its entirety because on its face it seeks solely
privileged and confidential information relating to her retention of BSF.* See Westco Inc. v. Scott
Lewis’ Gardening & Trimming, Inc., 26 So. 3d 620, 622 (Fla. 4™ DCA 2010) (court explaining
that “[w]hen confidential information is sought from a non-party, the trial court must determine

whether the requesting party establishes a need for the information that outweighs the privacy

> These Requests include nos. 9, 17, 18, 20 and 23.

* Specifically, Request no. 25 seeks: “All documents concerning your retention of the law firm Boies,
Schiller & Flexner LLP, including but not limited to: signed letter of retainer, retention agreement,
explanation of fees, and/or any documents describing the scope of retention.”

10

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015608
