Freedom House

of journalistic neutrality are fraudulent and
self-serving. There is, he contends, no difference
between his role and the role of a chief editor of
Reuters or the Associated Press. In one inter-
view, Kiselyov equated those two news services
with Rossiya Segodnya: “Both are propaganda
agencies—they shape the dominant narrative
and tell their audiences what and how to think.”
He continued: “In today’s world, information—
how it is gathered, analyzed, interpreted and
processed ... pushes a value system, certain
views on good and evil, and shapes attitudes to
different events.”

7. Theirrelevance of truth: “For the Soviets, the
idea of truth was important—even when they
were lying,” Peter Pomerantsev has written. “So-
viet propaganda went to great lengths to ‘prove’
that the Kremlin's theories or bits of information
were fact.” By contrast, in today’s Russia the idea
of truth is seen as irrelevant and “the borders
between fact and fiction have become utterly
blurred.” Pomerantsev quotes Russia's deputy
minister of communications as admonishing
journalism students at Moscow State Univer-
sity to forget about high ideals. “We should
give students a clear understanding: They are
going to work for The Man, and The Man will tell
them what to write, what not to write, and how
this or that thing should be written.”® Russian
propaganda outlets, especially RT, derive their
influence from a clever blend of act and faction,
mixing reports on genuine events with exagger-
ations, biased coverage, and outright lies. And
this mixture of fact and fiction is presented with
modern production techniques that mimic cred-
ible outlets like the BBC.

Propaganda works

The idea that governments can influence events
through propaganda once seemed far-fetched in the
internet age. Developments in Ukraine, however, have
spurred a reassessment of propaganda’s role in setting
the stage for intervention abroad and repression at
home.

According to numerous accounts in the international
media, many Russians believe that the Ukrainian gov-
ernment is responsible for massive war crimes, includ-
ing the crucifixion of small children and the downing
of the Malaysian Airlines passenger jet. Many of the
wildest assertions have been reinforced by altered or
repurposed images that allegedly depict Ukrainian

atrocities but actually show events in Mexico, Syria,
lraq, or other zones of civil conflict. Ordinary Russians
and many Ukrainian consumers of Russian media
have told foreign journalists of fears that “fascism” has
come to power in Ukraine.*®

In George Orwell's dystopian novel 1984, the Ministry
of Truth advanced what today would be called a re-
gime narrative, with accounts of never-ending conflict
abroad and treasonous enemies within. In similar
fashion, though with considerably more finesse and
sophistication than was described in Orwell's master-
piece, Russian media tocay preach a strident message
of external encirclement by Russophobes in Ukraine,
the Baltics, Georgia, and elsewhere, and internal
fifth-columnists among bloggers, civil society organi-
zations, and advocates of gay rights.

The media in democracies, especially in Europe,
proved unprepared for the deluge of Russian propa-
ganda during and after the seizure of Crimea. Putin
was thus able to drum home the portrayal of Ukraine
as a “divided state’ or an “artificial state,” labels that
could be attached to many sovereign nations, Russia
included.' Few were ready to mount a challenge

to the Russian proposition that Ukraine's status

was unique, and was a legitimate cause for Russia's
concern and even a justification for war. The Russian
propaganda machine also zeroed in on Ukraine's sup-
posed lack of respect for minority rights, a problem
that Moscow had not raised during the administra-
tions of Viktor Yanukovych or Leonid Kuchma. Neither
Ukrainians nor informed observers in the outside
world believed that Ukraine was faced with a civil war.
This was entirely a creation of Moscow's propaganda
and active intervention.

Russia's government is not alone in its use of propa-
ganda to further its interests. But it is uniquely aggres-
sive in pressing the dominant theme of the moment
and the most effective in mimicking the idioms of
modern commercial media while doing so. Further-
more, as the country faces serious decay in economic
and other material terms, the Kremlin sees success

in the war of information as critical to Russia's identity
as a great power. Other authoritarian regimes will take
note of Russia's successes, and act accordingly.

In past eras, dictators’ instrument of choice was cen-
sorship. However, people understood that they were
being cheated when the authorities banned books
and prosecuted those who possessed “unauthorized
literature.” Under a modern propaganda regime,

www.freedomhouse.org

17

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019251
