say explicitly why he had urged the prosecutor to step aside.

Mike Edmondson, a spokesman for Mr. Krischer, said the state attorney’s office
sometimes sent noncapital cases to grand juries when there were questions about witness
credibility. Mr. Krischer does not recommend a particular charge in such cases, Mr.
Edmondson said, but gives the grand jury a list of possible charges.

Bruce J. Winick, a law professor at the University of Miami, said that while prosecutors
in Florida rarely referred noncapital cases to grand juries, they sometimes did so with
sensitive cases to be extra-cautious.

Mr. Lefcourt said the police were wrong to have released the report so soon, especially
without correcting information that later proved wrong. He cited his assertion that one
accuser had lied about her age, adding that she had also been arrested on drug charges
and had been fired by her employer for stealing.

“What I’m trying to focus on,” Mr. Lefcourt said, “is, What’s motivating the selective
and misleading release of information to the public?”

Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company

New York Times — 06/30/08

Financier Starts Sentence in Prostitution Case -NYTimes.com Page 1| of 4 ge 1 of 4
July 1, 2008

Financier Starts Sentence in Prostitution Case

By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

The bad news arrived by phone last week on Little St. James Island, the palm-fringed
Xanadu in the Caribbean where Jeffrey E. Epstein, adviser to billionaires, lives in
secluded splendor.

Report to the Palm Beach County jail, the caller, Mr. Epstein’s lawyer, said.

So over the weekend Mr. Epstein quit his pleasure dome, with its staff of 70 and its
flamingo-stocked lagoon, and flew to Florida. On Monday morning, he turned himself in
and began serving 18 months for soliciting prostitution.

“T respect the legal process,” Mr. Epstein, 55, said by phone as he prepared to leave his
<p al

BS DR 3S Ik DIS IC OIC BIS DIS 54S IC DIS IC 34S BIS DIS 34S 2k DIS ig OIC BIS DIS 3S Dik DIS ik 34S BIS DIC 2S 2k DIC ik 24S IS DIC SIS Die DIC ig 24S IC OIC SIC 2 OIC 2g OIC iS 2IC 2c 2k OIC 2k 2IC ik 2k ic

The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of

Jeffrey Epstein

Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited
and may be unlawful. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and
destroy this communication and all copies thereof,
including all attachments.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030309
