Belief and Connection

We tend to think of beliefs as
wisps of the mind that have no power in
the material world. However, as Gary
Berntson and Louise Hawkley have
discussed, beliefs can affect our health
even to the extent of determining life
and death. As Tanya Luhrmann
discusses, in some forms of Christianity,
there is a real belief in the presence of
God. This is not simply a belief of God
in the world, but a belief of a God who is
by one’s side. The idea of God as a
friend and companion clearly motivates
the desire to make such a presence
manifest in tangible ways. For some, it is
the sense of God with which they
commune, for others it is what they
believe to be a sensory experience of
God that they seek. Luhrmann outlines
how this belief, coupled with a
supportive social structure, can lead to
powerful personal experiences, such as
hearing the voice of God, reflecting the
operation of our social brains.

Our sense of social connection is
not dependent on a single set of religious
beliefs, however. In human social
connections, we can form individual
relationships with a spouse or friends
but, as John Cacioppo outlined, there are
other kinds of connections that our social
brain seeks, as well. We seek
connections with emergent structures
such as groups, clubs, teams,
congregations, and beyond. Kathryn
Tanner argues that the belief that God
created the world and bears causal
responsibility for it serves to connect
believers to life in a broader way than is
provided through individual
relationships. This broader connection to
life does not depend on the manifestation
of a presence to whom we can talk
because the evidence of social

Page |119

connection is apparent in the very fabric
of daily existence. Thus, whereas
Luhrmann discusses God as a palpable
friend that one can learn to attend to and
experience as an active presence in one’s
life, Tanner discusses God as the
initiator of life and the very fabric of
existence, a presence so ubiquitous that
there is no specific point on which one
can focus to attend to or experience God.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021365
