14

interesting opportunities. We built the Gaza Zoo, Aenizan boasted.
IT received $20,000 once for smuggling a tiger. We had to drug it.
For the Bedouins, the profits that they reap from smuggling are only
compensation for generations of neglect and outright hostility from
Egypt's central government. Only 10 percent of my people benefit
from the tourism industry, Aenizan said. The rest is pocketed by
Egyptian tycoons. It is not unusual for Bedouins to refer to non-
Bedouins as Egyptians -- a sign of their detachment from Egyptian
society. Running water is still scarce in many areas of Sinai, another
sign of the government's negligence. Although most Bedouins hold
Egyptian citizenship, they are not allowed into the high ranks of the
military, according to Aenizan and Menaei.

Aenizan, who is wanted on an 80-year sentence for allegedly
smuggling goods, described how interactions with the corrupt judicial
system often sour Bedouins on the state. They jailed our women to
force us to turn ourselves in, he said, attempting to justify his
contempt toward the government. I didn't even enter a court or have
a lawyer. They ask you to be an informer. If you refuse, they frame
you. The Bedouins' long-simmering frustration with the Egyptian
state boiled over during the mass protests that led to Mubarak's fall
from power. Three police officers were kidnapped by armed men in el-
Arish during the height of the revolution, and their whereabouts still
remain unknown. Tourists fled the city as lawlessness grew more
pronounced. But while Sinai's disorder has mainly been exploited by
people looking to make a quick buck, a disturbing ideological
element has also tried to fill the political space. On July 29, during a
protest calling for an Islamic state after Friday prayers in el-Arish,
close to 100 armed militants mounted on motorcycles and pickup
trucks stormed through the city waving black flags, terrorizing
residents, and attacking the police station. Gun battles with security
forces lasted for hours, leaving seven people dead, including two

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024605
