4.2.12

WC: 191694

KC: But you are using a Jewish lawyer when it’s convenient and serves your purpose?
MH: Well certainly its serving his purposes too and the ends justify the means.

AD: My purposes are the purposes of the First Amendment. Mr. Hale, you will rue the
day that you ever thought that I would give you publicity because I will not stop
condemning your organization and you know that the only condition that I will accept
your case is because you have given me the freedom to argue with you, to condemn you
and to defeat you in the marketplace of ideas.

MH: That’s fine.

AD: The only publicity you will get from me is the most negative kind of publicity
because I say, your ideas belong in a nutshell because they are nutty ideas, they are
reprehensible ideas...

MH: So are those of the Jews.

AD: And I have faith in the American people that they will reject your ideas in the
marketplace of ideas and you should not have the benefit of censorship so that you can
stand up and proclaim your views. You know, if the character committee hadn’t kept him
out, nobody would have heard of this despicable person. It is the character committee
who has given him publicity just like the march in Skokie...you know the Nazis would
have been able to march through Skokie, it would have been a one-day story, but for the
censorship. Censorship creates publicity. What we are doing is hoping to give you the
worst and most negative kind of publicity so people will reject your ideas.

KC: So do you still want Mr. Dershowitz to represent you?
MH: The fact of the matter is that we are confident that if people would consider our

views, they will agree with them.

AD: Nobody is afraid of your views. As long as you don’t violate the law your views will
be defeated in the marketplace of ideas

Ultimately, I did not represent Hale because he refused to allow me to donate his legal fee to the
ADL, NAACP and other organizations that seek to combat his racist views in the marketplace of
ideas. He lost his case and is now in prison for trying to arrange a “hit” on the judge who ruled
against him.

Following Hale’s imprisonment, I received a call from the FBI advising me that Hale may have
put out a hit on me as well. For several weeks, FBI agents monitored and protected me. So
much for Matthew Hale merely believing in freedom of speech! This was neither the first nor the

143

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017230
