Health care

Diana believes that it is critical that all Americans have access to the health care they need.
Diana has led the way for health care reform in Congress and played a central role in
expanding coverage for low-income children and families.

Diana is a leading voice on health care reform in Congress. Her efforts were critical to the
passage of a health reform bill earlier this year that will expand access to health care to
millions of Americans and lower costs for those that previously enjoyed coverage. In
particular, she was the leader of a broad coalition of representatives that were successful in
resisting efforts to limit a woman’s right to choose under the new legislation. Diana’s top
health care reform initiatives include access to high quality, affordable care for all children,
prevention and wellness, strengthening the health care workforce, and expanding primary
care and community health center services.

Diana has led efforts to expand the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP),
which provides health insurance to low-income children up to age 18. In the 111th
Congress, Diana was a leader in the expansion of SCHIP that was signed into law by
President Obama in February of 2009.

Stem Cell Research

U.S. Rep. DeGette was the chief architect of legislation to expand stem cell research, which
was passed twice with broad, bipartisan support in Congress. The measure was vetoed
twice by President George W. Bush - including his very first presidential veto. In March of
2009, President Barack Obama signed an executive order reversing former President
Bush’s restrictions on embryonic stem cell research. Standing next to the President as he
signed the order, U.S. Rep. DeGette is working with the Obama Administration on codifying
the order into law. In March 2010, Diana introduced bipartisan stem cell research
legislation that would do just that. The Stem Cell Research Advancement Act would ensure
a lasting ethical framework overseeing stem cell research at the National Institutes of
Health (NIH) and will provide stability to the scientists and individuals who are on the
quest for live-saving cures.

Reproductive rights

As the co-chair of the Congressional Pro-Choice Caucus, Diana has fought for common-
sense family planning and reproductive rights. She is a lead sponsor of the Prevention First
agenda, which is a comprehensive, bi-partisan approach to reducing unintended
pregnancies and the need for abortion. Most recently, Diana led the fight against the Stupak-
Pitts Amendment - a dangerous restriction on women’s reproductive rights.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029922
