Freedom House

Several other examples of consultants in the pay of
authoritarians are worth mention:

¢ Until rather recently, Azerbaijan was represented
by a battalion of lawyers, political operatives,
and public relations specialists in Washington,
London, and Brussels. While some worked for
the national energy company, others were hired
directly by the government to explain away the
regime's miserable human rights record to the ad-
ministration, members of Congress, think tanks,
and other opinion makers in the United States.

¢ Bahrain spent over $32 million between 2011,
when political protests broke out, and 2015 on
political consultants in the United States and
Britain. During that period, the country experi-
enced an explosion in the number of political
prisoners as the Sunni Muslim monarchy carried
out an often violent persecution of the Shiite
majority.*®

¢ Despite their efforts to hollow out Venezuela's
democratic infrastructure and their virulent
anti-Americanism, the late Hugo Chavez and his
successor, Nicolas Maduro, had no difficulty in
finding American consultants who would repre-
sent the interests of their government and the
national oil company.”

¢ Richard Burt, a former U.S. diplomat in Re-
publican administrations, earned hundreds of
thousands of dollars promoting a critical Rus-
sian energy project while also helping to shape
candidate Trump's foreign policy positions.
According to Politico, Burt received $365,000
in the first half of 2016 for lobbying on behalf of
Nord Stream ||, a Russian-backed pipeline plan
that would deliver more natural gas directly to
Western and Central Europe via the Baltic Sea,
bypassing Ukraine and Belarus. At the same
time, Burt was helping to write a major Trump
foreign policy address. That speech, among
other things, called for greater cooperation with
Russia.?®

¢ In early 2017, an Egyptian intelligence agency
hired two Washington public relations firms

to lobby on the country’s behalf and boost its
image. Filings with the Department of Justice
showed the General Intelligence Service hired
Weber Shandwick and Cassidy and Associates
in a deal worth $1.8 million annually.

e Michael Flynn, who served briefly as President
Trump's national security adviser, did lucra-
tive consulting work for a firm with ties to the
government of Turkish president Recep Tayyip
Erdogan before and immediately after the 2016
election. Among other things, Flynn wrote an
op-ed that urged the American government to
expel Fethullah Gillen, a controversial cleric
who was accused by the Turkish government of
masterminding the 2016 coup attempt. Flynn's
consulting firm was paid $535,000 for work
between September 9 and November 14.”

Balance sheet

Even as they declare their disdain for liberal values,
modern authoritarians take maximum advantage

of the freedoms that are embedded in democratic
systems. Russia, China, Venezuela, Iran, and others
have established television networks that broadcast
beyond their borders to countries around the globe.
Viewers in the United States or Europe can watch
Russia's RT or China Central Television on their local
cable systems. Pro-Beijing tycoons have gained a
strong foothold in the Hong Kong press landscape,
and Chinese businesses are making substantial
investments in Hollywood studios and production
companies.

Russia would not tolerate a foreign power providing
funding for an opposition political party. Yet it helps

to finance France's National Front and quite possi-

bly Hungary's Jobbik. In 2013, Greenpeace activists
attempted to scale a Russian offshore drilling platform
as part of a protest against Arctic oil exploration; the
authorities arrested the protesters, charged them
with piracy, and held them for two months before their
release.”' Yet at the same time, the Kremlin was al-
legedly fostering anti-fracking demonstrations in parts
of Central and Eastern Europe.”? Russia organizes
bogus election-monitoring missions that give a stamp
of approval to polling in Crimea and other authoritar-
ian settings, while effectively preventing legitimate
election observation teams from functioning on its
own soil.

Authoritarian states also rent the services of former gov-
ernment officials and members of Congress, powerful
lawyers, and experienced political image-makers to per-
suade skeptical audiences that they share the interests
of democracies. These lobbyists work to advance the
economic goals of their clients’ energy companies and
other businesses, but they also burnish the reputa-

www.freedomhouse.org

45

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019279
