became technically possible. They have since become essential, as crucial to our
network world as the first maps were to explorers centuries ago. Fundamental
papers, by now-legendary researchers like the mathematicians Steven Storgratz and
Albert-Lazlo Barabasi or the biologist Simon Levin, identified simple laws running in
single networks. The Internet, financial markets, jungle ecosystems and even our
own brain connections were found to exhibit similar, often surprisingly common
habits.

Unfortunately, most of our leading figures still think in terms of disconnected
dangers, of risks that can be reduced to nouns: Atomic bombs, fundamentalists,
hacks. To be sure plenty of these sorts of dangerous nouns confront us now. But the
sharpest edges of our problems come from the fact that these nouns are part of
networks, which spring them into connected, surprising action. Computers,
airplanes, derivatives - they snap and break systems when connected into
cascading, fast threats. When Master Nan spoke of spiritual illness, I think this is
particularly what he meant. Total confusion about our world, followed by all the
emotions of the lost: anger, denial, irrationality. “A commander in chief,” von
Clausewitz wrote of an older age of land warfare, “must aim at acquiring an overall
knowledge of the configuration of a province, of an entire country. He must hold in
his mind a vivid picture of the road-network, the river-lines, and the mountain
ranges without ever losing a sense of his immediate surroundings.”2® This sort of
command mastery is still relevant in an age of networks. It is as important for the
design and operation of our economy, our politics, our data and our security as it is
in considering problems of war and peace. But who of our current leaders holds in
his or her mind such a vivid map of the ethereal and essential networks running
around us now? Who owns that subtle overall knowledge and then acts with the
confident sensibility such wisdom would produce?

At this early moment in a new revolution, our leaders are blind. It’s not simple
technical fluency that eludes them - though this is among the most embarrassing of
their deficits. It’s that avoiding cyber accidents, controlling the spread of nuclear
weapons, handling global warming, stemming fast financial crises, restoring
equitable economic growth - all of these puzzles yearn to be tackled with a new
sensibility. Not least because often they are produced by a fresh set of links and
instincts. These problems linger not as independent fractures on a solid base, but
rather as markers of spiderwebbing, connected cracks pressing out on knotted up
networks. It is only by tackling them with network ideas that we can hope to make
progress. That the rise of ISIS and the forces of global income inequality are driven
by the same laws can only be understood with a knowledge, or better an experience,
of connected power. Our leaders are preparing us to fight expensive new wars we
need not fight, to confront enemies who might best be regarded as partners - even
as they flail at the to corrosive problems of a new, emerging order simply because
they can’t see or feel the essential links of power that are, even now, making the
familiar dangerous and the dangerous familiar. “We got to know the nature of
calculating by learning to calculate,” the Austrian philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein

28 “A commander in chief’: Von Clausewitz, p 110

28

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018260
