This self proved scumbag was impeached as President but got off and he will this time too. The left has so
utterly turned us into a valueless and degenerate society and is determined to destroy what little of decency is
left that he will NEVER be held either responsible or accountable for his sins. We have a criminally complicit
Congress which has allowed the rule of law to cease to matter and when the time comes when they NEED it for
their OWN SELF PRESERVATION, it will not be available even to them. As they have sown, so shall they
reap! Between them, The Clintons are the perfect example of what is wrong with the Country at large and one
of the major reasons we are now stuck with one worse and a set of political parasites who enable HIM to barter
our freedoms, sovereignty and resources to our enemies. We have a word for those. You all know what it is but
few in this country call them what they are, not only violators of their sworn oaths of Office but: TRAITORS.
This one also happens to be apparently, according to this reference, a pedophile. will wonders never Cease or
for that matter, CEASE TO DISGUST?

[o)

msueh
March 30, 2014 at 3:23 pm — Log in to Reply

“T...] he will NEVER be held either responsible or accountable for his sins.”
Perhaps in this life, but not when he has to grovel before his Maker.

See

[o)

Jim

April 22, 2014 at 7:59 pm — Log in to Reply

21.
savannarose55

March 27, 2014 at 2:00 pm — Log in to Reply

do we really want this disgusting drama in the whitehouse again. i heard both the clintons lost their lawyers
license, then bill gets impeached but he’s like an enigma and you cant rid of him, then hillary as sec of state
allows our embassy or annex (the stories never the same) to be attacked and we lose four americans and lies to
the public thinking we’re all idiots and we would just go along with the ridiculous story that this happened
because of a muslim allah bashing tape, and why do we think she would be good for us as president.... people
that dont agree with these two wind up dead, theyre toxic.......... lets say we at least learned something from
the clinton dynasty.........

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022634
