Yemen and what are your interests? How do we communicate with him ?! his logic is that the Mahdi will
come and he must fertile the environment for the arrival of the Mahdi and they must control the Muslim
world. They deprive their people for more than thirty years of development and put him in the stage of
hunger and poor infrastructure to achieve this goal, they will not change their mind on the day and
night. Otherwise, their legislation will end within Iran. What are the points of convergence that can be
discussed with this system! They are almost nonexistent. This system has been tested at more than one
stage, in the time of Rafsanjani and it turned out to be just plays. After the Khomeini revolution, the
strategy of expansion came to anger the world and then the leader of the peace who was Rafsanjani
until he gained the confidence of the world, including us, he gained our confidence. After reaching
another stage and a good environment, an extremist leader is sent to continue the process of expansion,
such as what we saw with Ahmadinejad in Iraq, Syria and other locations. Then another leader comes to
preserve the gains to satisfy the world. And then an extremist commander comes in order to continue
the deployment of expansion, this will not happen, this is over. The believer is not bitten twice from a
hole. We have been bitten once, and we will not be bitten again. And we know that we are the main
goal of the Iranian regime, to access to the Muslim Qibla is the major goal of the Iranian regime. We will
never wait until the battle occurs in Saudi Arabia, but we will work to have the battle in Iran rather than
in Saudi Arabia.

* What do you think of the solution in Syria, how do you see?

- Syria is undoubtedly a very complex situation, no doubt that former US President Barack Obama
missed a lot of important opportunities that could have made a big change in Syria. Today, Syria has
become an international issue. Russia is present there and it is a superpower and a big country. The
United States of America exists and all five major countries are there. Any friction that may occurs
between these big powers could cause a crisis which is much bigger than the Middle East crisis, the
situation is very complex. Today we are trying to make the most gains for the interests of Saudi Arabia,
the interests of the Syrian people and the countries of the region.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023660
