Lb 2 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

nections. Making the task even more risky, according to my Booz
Allen source, there were closed-circuit cameras. The only way he
could mitigate the risk of detection was by having someone help
him build this network.

Even if Snowden had managed to obtain all the necessary pass-
words from colleagues, he would have had to transfer the files to an
external storage device. This was not a matter of simply attaching
a thumb drive or other external device to a port, because, unlike in
movies such as Mission: Impossible, the ports on the computers at
the NSA were ordinarily sealed shut. This measure was taken spe-
cifically to prevent any unauthorized downloading by NSA workers.
The only people at the center who had the authorization, and the
means, to open these ports and transfer data were system admin-
istrators, according to the former Booz Allen executive. System
administrators needed to have this privilege to deal with glitches
in the computers. Snowden was no longer a system administrator
and had no such privileges. So again, he would have needed help.
He would have needed to either borrow a system administrator’s

® credential or forge his own. ®

The credential he would need is called a public key infrastructure,
or PKI, card with its authentication code embedded in a magnetic
strip. When I asked the former Booz Allen executive if Snowden
possessed the skill set to forge such a card, he said that he strongly
doubted any NSA employee would be capable of such a forgery
without special equipment. Just asking such a favor could “set off
alarms,” my source said.

The unwitting accomplice scenario had another stumbling block:
time. We know from Poitras that Snowden told her in early April
2013 that he planned to deliver documents to her in six to eight
weeks (which he in fact did). But he had not yet started working for
Booz Allen at the center until that same month. It does not seem
plausible that in making such a commitment he was merely count-
ing on his ingenuity in the face of strangers to fulfill it. The only way
he could have known for certain that he would be able to borrow a
PKI card and obtain the passwords, whether by trickery, by observa-
tion, or by a key router, before he had begun working at the center
was that he already knew someone there who would help him.

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 152 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019640
