KIRKLAND & ELLIS

Honorable Alice S. Fisher
November 28, 2007
Page 3

even the identity of the complainant(s) and because of the involvement of the federal criminal
justice system in civil séttlements between private individuals.

Fourth. The USAO has improperly insisted that the chosen attorney
representative should be able to litigate the claims of individuals, which violates the terms of the
Agreement and deeply infringes upon the spirit and nature of the Agreement. Initially, for the
sake-of expediting a settlement in this matter, we suggested that Mr. Epstein establish a
restitution fund specifically for the settlement of the identified individuals’ civil claims and that
an impartial, independent representative be. appointed to administer that fund. Notably, such a
restitution fund was created in a federal case, U.S. v. Boehm, Case No. 3:04CR00003 (D. Alaska
2004). The federal prosecutors here rejected this idea, and they insisted that an attorney
representative, paid for by Mr, Epstein, be appointed. Yet, there was ho suggestion at the time
that the attomey representative’s duties included litigating claims on behalf of the identified
individuals. However, after the parties agreed to the appointment of an attorney representative,
the prosecutors announced that the criteria for choosing an appropriate attorney representative
now includéd that the individual be “a plaintiffs lawyer capable of handlirig multiple lawsuits
against high profile attorneys.” This interpretation of the scope of the attorney representative’s
ole is far outside the common understanding that existed when we negotiated Mr. Epstein’s
settlement with the USAO. Furthermore, we firmly believe that ethics rules preclude the
representative from litigating claims on behalf of the identified individuals.

In sum, we believe that the actions undertaken in this matter by the USAO with
respect to the 18 U.S.C. § 2255 provisions of the Agreement are highly unusual. We respectfully

request a meeting with you at your earliest convenience to discuss the important issues raised by
the USAO’s conduct in this deeply policy-laden matter.

Sincerely,

MD WS.

Kenneth W. Starr

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012658
