http://www. huffingtonpost.com/2014/06/03jeftrey-epstein_n_5439407.html

MIAMI (AP) — Nearly a decade ago, a wealthy financial guru came under FBI investigation,
suspected of sexually abusing dozens of underage girls at his Palm Beach mansion. Then,
abruptly. the investigation was dropped and Jeffrey Epstein pleaded guilty to a single state
charge of soliciting prostitution. He served just over a year in jail.

Now, two women who say they were among his victims have won a precedent-setting appeals
court ruling entitling them to see all the documents from the plea bargain discussions between
Epstein's high-powered lawyers and federal prosecutors.

Their goal: use those files to undo the agreement, reopen the investigation and subject Epstein to
more charges.

The women's lawyers contend Epstein got special treatment because of his wealth and
connections. His attorneys deny that.

Epstein, 61. made hundreds of millions of dollars managing funds for rich clients, Shortly after
his 2008 guilty plea. it came to light that his lawyers had secretly reached a non-prosecution
agreement months earlier with the U.S. Justice Department that spared him a potentially heavier
punishment.

“Our complaint alleges that. prodded by Epstein. the federal prosecutors deliberately concealed
the sweetheart plea deal they made with him to avoid public criticism.” said Paul Cassell. a
University of Utah law professor who is representing the two women.

The U.S. attorney's office in Miami would not comment. But the U.S. attorney at the time. R.
Alexander Acosta, said in a 2011 letter defending his office that more evidence came to light
after Epstein made his deal.

Many victims have spoken out. filing detailed statements in civil cases seeking damages.
Physical evidence has been discovered, Acosta wrote. Had these additional statements and
evidence been known, the outcome may have been different.”

Epstein has settled lawsuits for undisclosed amounts with many of the women who say they were
underage when they were paid for sex.

The case represents the first time a federal appeals court has ruled that the Crime Victims’ Rights
Act of 2004 guarantees victims the right to be informed about the details of how a plea bargain

was reached, according to legal experts and lawyers involved in the case. The law marked the
culmination of efforts begun in the 1960s to give crime victims more of a say,

25

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011936
