Disclosures
Important Disclosures

BofA Merrill Lynch Research Personnel (including the analyst(s) responsible for this report) receive compensation based upon, among other factors, the overall profitability of Bank of America
Corporation, including profits derived from investment banking. The analyst(s) responsible for this report may also receive compensation based upon, among other factors, the overall
profitability of the Bank’s sales and trading businesses relating to the class of securities or financial instruments for which such analyst is responsible.

BofA Merrill Lynch Global Credit Research analysts regularly interact with sales and trading desk personnel in connection with their research, including to ascertain pricing and liquidity in the

fixed income markets.

Other Important Disclosures

Prices are indicative and for information purposes only. Except as otherwise stated in the report, for the purpose of any recommendation in relation to: (i) an equity security, the price

referenced is the publicly traded price of the security as of close of business on the day prior to the date of the report or, if the report is
indicative of the traded price as of the date and time of the report; or (ii) a debt security (including equity preferred and CDS), prices are

from various sources including Bank of America Merrill Lynch trading desks.

ce)

Ww

INVESTMENT.

6)

The date and time of completion of the production of any recommendation in this report shall be the date and time of dissemination o

This report may refer to fixed income securities that may not be offered or sold in one or more states or jurisdictions. Readers of this re
her mention of such securities is not a solicitation or offer to transact in such securities. Investors should contact their BofA Merrill Lynch
Wealth Management financial advisor for information relating to fixed income securities
Rule 144A securities may be offered or sold only to persons in the US. who are Qualified Institutional Buyers within the meaning of Rul
ECURITIES DISCUSSED HEREIN MAY BE RATED BELOW INVESTMENT GRADE AND SHOULD THEREFORE ONLY BE CONSIDERED FOR |

published during intraday trading, the price referenced is
indicative as of the date and time of the report and are

this report as recorded in the report timestamp.

port are advised that any discussion, recommendation or

representative or Merrill Lynch Financial Global

le 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
CLUSION IN ACCOUNTS QUALIFIED FOR SPECULATIVE

Recipients who are not institutional investors or market professionals should seek the advice of their independent financial advisor before considering information in this report in connection
with any investment decision, or for anecessary explanation of its contents.
The securities discussed in this report may be traded over-the-counter. Retail sales and/or distribution of this report may be made only ins
registration or have been qualified for sale.
fficers of MLPF&S or one or more of its affiliates (other than research analysts} may have a financial interest in securities of the issuer(s) or in related investments.
This report, and the securities discussed herein, may not be eligible for distribution or sale in all countries or to certain categories of investors.

ates where these securities are exempt from

BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research policies relating to conflicts of interest are described at http://go.bofa.com/coi.

BofA Merrill Lynch’ includes Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (MLPF&S’) and its affiliates. Investors should contact their BofA Merrill Lynch representative or
Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management financial advisor if they have questions concerning this report. BofA Merrill Lynch” and Merrill Lynch” are each global brands for BofA
Merrill Lynch Global Research.
Information relating to Non-US affiliates of BofA Merrill Lynch and Distribution of Affiliate Research Reports:

South Africa (
PRA}; Merrill Lynch (Aus
Pacific) Limited, regulate
Singapore (MAS); Merrill
CV, Casa de Bolsa, regula
japan): Merri
Financial Supervisory Service;
regulated by
srael Limited,
DIFC): Merrill Lynch In
Comisi6n Nacional del
errill Lynch Kingdom o
This research report: has
FCA and the PRA} by MLI
retail clients (as defin
imited regulation by
Lynch (Japan), a regis
by HKSFC (research repor
inte
Indi
Ban
regulated by MAS. Bank o
Lice!
any

regulated

ea
t

ne

of its affiliates involved in

This research report has been

responsibility for research reports
security discussed in the report should do so through M
respect of any matters relating to
report should contact Merrill Lyne

research report.
General Investment Related

Taiwan Readers: Neither the information nor any opinion expressed herein constitutes an offer or aso

LPF&S distributes, or may in
Pty) Ltd., regulated by The Financial Service Bo
ralia):
d by th
Lynch
ed by

he Securities and
by Israel Securities Authori
ernationa
ercado De
Saudi Ara
been ap
Uk} and Bank of America
din the ru
FCA and
ered securi
5 containing any in
nded for issuance or distribu
ia}; and is issued and distri
Limited (Merchant Bank}
America N.A, Aust!
nse 235132 (MLEA) distribute this repor'

Authority. No approval is required
DIFQ is authorized and regula
rules. Bank of America Merrill Lynch Internati

he future distribute, researc

e Hong Kong Securities and

errill Lynch (Taiwan): Merrill
Exchange Board of India; PT
y; Merri
(DIFC Branch), regulated b
Va

proved for publication and

es of the FCA and
PRA - detai
ies dealer u

forma

jon
ed in Singa
LIBLMB} an

bu pore to ins

(

ralian Brandl
in Australia
preparing this research rep
for publication or distri
by the DFSA. Research
onal Limited
prepared and issued by ML
of its non-US affiliates

ited

Disclosures:

ores; Merrill Lynch (Brazil}: Bank 0
bia Company, regulated by the Capital Market Au

errill Lynch Interna

ria y de Valores; Merrill Lynch
he Financial Services Agency

errill Lynch (Indonesia): PT
| Lynch (Russia): O00 Merrill
y the Dubai

errill
hori
ed K

America M

is distributed in the Uni

nang

h reports of the following non-US a
ard; MLI (UK}: Merrill Lynch Internati

Lynch Securities (Taiwan) Ltd., regu

Financial Services Authority (DI

he FCA and

iliates

I Lyne
ment
(Argentina):
> Merri
ated b

errill Lynch
Lynch Securi

Lynch Banco

onal, regulated by the Financial Conduct Au
errill Lynch Equities (Australia) Limited, regulated by the Australian Securities and Investments Commissio
Futures Commission (HKSFQ; Merri
Canada): Merrill Lynch Canada Inc, regulated by the Inves
he Comisi6n Nacional Banca
Lynch Japan Securities Co, Ltd, regulated by

ndustry Regu

Lynch (Seou

in the US (short name: legal name, regulator): Merrill Lynch (South Africa): Merrill Lynch
hority (FCA) and the Prudential Regulation Authority
n; Merrill Lynch (Hong Kong): Merrill Lynch (Asia
Lynch (Singapore) Pte Ltd, regulated by the Monetary Authority of
atory Organization of Canada; Merrill Lynch (Mexico): Merrill Lynch Mexico, SA de
Lynch Argentina SA, regulated by Comisién Nacional de Valores; Merrill Lynch
}: Merrill Lynch International Incorporated (Seoul Branch) regulated by the
Futures Bureau; DSP Merrill Lynch (India): DSP Merrill Lynch Limited,
ndonesia, regulated by Otoritas Jasa Keuangan (OJK); Merrill Lynch (Israel): Merrill Lynch
ies, Moscow, regulated by the Central Bank of the Russian Federation; Merrill Lynch
FSA); Merrill Lynch (Spain): Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Espana, S.AS.V., regulated by
ultiplo S.A, regulated by Comissdo de Valores Mobiliarios; Merrill Lynch KSA Company,

h (Singapore): Merril
erril

y the Securities and

y.
)

ingdom (UK

ional Limited, which are authorized
the PRA) by Merrill Lynch International Bank Limited, London
s about the extent of our regulation by
nder the Financial Instruments and Excl
ion in relation to, or advice on, fu
0, or use by, any person in Hong Kong); is issued and distrib
itutional investors and/or accredited investors (each as d
id Merrill Lynch (Singapore) (Company Registra
h (ARBN 064 874 531), AFS
only to ‘Wholesale’ clients as defin
ort is an Authorised Deposit- Taking Institution un
bution of this report in Brazil and i
reports prepared and issued by Merrill Lynch
, Frankfurt Branch (BAMLI Frankfurt
PF&S and/or one or more of its no
distributed to MLPF&S clients int
PF&S and not such foreign affiliates. Hong Kong recipients of this research report should contact Merrill
dealing in securities (and not futures contracts) or provision of speci
h International Bank Limited (Merchant Bank} and/or Merrill Lynch (S

e Act in Japan

ures contracts are not intended for issuance or distribu

uted

ion

5 local dis

} distribu
n-US affilia
he US. Any

PRA are availa

os F 06872E an
License 412901 (BANA Aus
ed by s./61G0

0 professional clients and eligible counterparties (as each is defined in the rules of the
by the PRA and regulated by the FCA and the PRA, and Is distributed in the UK to
Branch, which is authorized by the Central Bank of Ireland and subject to
e from us on request; has been considered and distributed in Japan by
and distributed in Hong Kong by Merrill Lynch (Hong Kong) which is regu
jon in Hong Kong and are not directed to, or
Lynch (Taiwan); is issued and distributed in India by DSP Merrill
Advisers Regulations) by Merrill Lynch Interna
dd 198602883D respectively). MLIBLMB and Merrill Lynch (Singapore) are
ralia) and Merrill Lynch Equities (Australia) Limited (ABN 65 006 276 795), AFS
the Corporations Act 2001. With the exception of BANA Australia, neither MLEA nor
der the Banking Act 1959 nor regulated by the Australian Prudential Regulation
ribution is by Merrill Lynch (Brazil) in accordance with applicable regulations. Merrill Lynch
(DIFC) are done so in accordance with the requirements of the DFSA conduct of business

es this report in Germany and is regulated by BaFin.
tes. MLPF&S is the distributor of this research report in th
US person recelving this research report and wishing to e

errill
ated

sis issued

in Taiwan by Merrill

efined under the Financia

Lynch
jonal

e US and accepts fu
fect any transaction in any
Lynch (Asia Pacific} Limited in
not futures contracts). Singapore recipients of this research
of any matters arising from, or in connection with, this

ic advice on securities (and
ingapore) Pte Ltd in respec

icitation of an offer to transact in any securities or other financial instrument. No part of

this report may be used or reproduced or quoted in any manner whatsoever in Taiwan by the press or any other person without the express written consent of BofA Merrill Lynch.

Bankof America
Merrill Lynch

Cause and Effect | 13 February 2017 9

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014729
