Precious metals

Preference: neutral

Gold (24 Oct): USD 1,7020z (last month: USD 1,764/oz)
UBS View (gold) Gold 6-month target: USD 1,875/oz
¢ So far we saw inflows into gold of around 4 million ounces via physically backed ETFs since Bernanke's
speech at Jackson Hole. We expect this trend to continue and to lead to an undersupplied market, with
financial demand also finding its way into gold futures and physical gold bars and coins.
e Additional demand support comes from central banks, which are likely to further increase their foreign
reserve allocation to the yellow metal. At the same time the drag from India's jewelry demand is set to fade
with an already lower base in 2H11 and a stabilizing Indian rupee.
¢ Securing sufficient investment demand to push prices sharply higher is different from securing the
needed demand over a long period of time, and along these lines we see less support for the price over a 6-
month perspective. Secondly, from a portfolio perspective we currently prefer to take some risk off the
table instead of on, and we thus maintain our neutral stance on gold.

A Positive scenario 6-month target: USD 2,250/oz
¢ Unorthodox monetary policy measures by the Fed start to weaken the USD persistently. Moreover, the
risk of a Eurozone breakup intensifies, which triggers a tidal wave of investment demand for gold.

& Negative scenario 6-month target: USD 1,450/oz
e A hard landing of China and India or the Fed backing off from the recent monetary policy
announcements would be a key drag on the yellow metal. The latter would have the strongest impact.

What we're watching
Physical demand/supply

Why it matters

In the months ahead, with the festive season in India starting and monsoon
activity having improved considerably, supporting rural incomes, Indian
physical demand is likely to pick up. Key dates: World Gold Council mid-
November release.

Mining activity in South Africa is unlikely to return to normal in the coming
months. Hence, we are closely tracking mining news from South Africa,
including the aggregated PGM IP numbers to assess the overall situation.

In order to see the gold price reaching our target, investment inflows into
physically backed ETFs need to continue. To gauge investor interest in gold
(sector) a build-up in futures positions is likely to materialize as well.

Key dates: 2 Nov US payrolls; 8 Nov ECB meeting, 12 Dec Fed meeting

Investment flow

Monetary policy

2 UBS

Recommendations
Tactical (up to 6 months)

Although it is possible for gold to test its
all-time high in the next three months, we
are aware that the metal has already
appreciated firmly ahead of the QE3
announcement, which requires an ever
growing amount of investment demand
to hold the current upward trajectory.

Strategic (1 to 2 years)

To protect investors’ portfolios from
unorthodox monetary policy measures,
holding gold exposure is a viable and
attractive strategy. Alternatively, we
recommend palladium as well as
platinum. Structural supply issues with
regard to platinum and a reduction in
Russian stock sales of palladium speak in
favor of PGM exposure, despite higher
volatility.

Money created per hour
(in mn USD)

60

Value of new gold mined (Valued at USD
1,7 70loz,

USD created (via QE3 only)

Per hour.

Source: WGC, Bloomberg, UBS, as of Oct. 2012
Note: Past performance is not an indication of future returns.

For further information please contact ClO's asset class specialists Dominic Schnider, dominic.schnider@ubs.com or Giovanni Staunovo, giovanni.staunovo@ubs.com

Please see important disclaimer and disclosures at the end of the document.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025282
