[9

government’s ability to control its roughly one hundred nuclear
weapons is a vital American national interest; the loss of a single
warhead to extremists, whether through a government collapse or
through a disaffected anti-American faction in Pakistan’s military or
intelligence services, could be devastating.

Strikingly, U.S. policy has given relatively little weight to this
concern: the Bush administration subordinated a coherent U.S.
strategy in the region to the optional invasion of Iraq; both the Bush
and particularly the Obama administrations have emphasized the war
against al-Qaeda to such an extent that the U.S.-Pakistan alliance is in
tatters. Now Islamabad’s very stability has come into question.

It is good to hear from Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta and other
senior officials that al-Qaeda and the Taliban have suffered major
setbacks. It was even better to hear that U.S. troops had finally killed
Osama bin Laden. Nevertheless, these triumphs have come at
demonstrable cost. There was perhaps no reliable way to kill bin
Laden without grievously offending Pakistan’s government and
people, though a senior administration official has admitted that the
United States “underestimated the humiliation factor” of the raid.
Still, American officials could have structured U.S.-Pakistan relations
in a way that would have made this necessary infringement on
Pakistan’s sovereignty the exception rather than the rule in
Washington’s approach to its admittedly frustrating and unreliable
ally. Instead, the administration expanded drone attacks on less-than-
essential targets (the average frequency of drone strikes under
President Obama is one every four days, compared to one every forty
days during the Bush administration); harshly criticized Pakistan’s
government and military before the Abbottabad operation;
embarrassed both by killing bin Laden inside the country; and then
followed the action with further public criticism and cuts in
assistance to the Pakistani military.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024610
