36

actually happened. To him, Snowden’s timeline, as established by the government’s
investigators, did not match up to Snowden’s story line. “Something is not right,” Alexander said
in an interview.

What was wrong with Snowden's account proceeded from unresolved inconsistencies in both
the timing and nature of the theft. For one thing, Snowden had made the claim to journalists,
four months after he was in Russia, that he had turned over all the documents he took from the
NSA’s compartments to journalists Laura Poitras and Glenn Greenwald in Hong Kong.
However, on August 18, 2013, the investigators had the opportunity to examine the files that
Snowden had actually given Poitras and Greenwald in Hong Kong. This discovery came when
David Miranda, Greenwald’s romantic partner, was detained at Heathrow Airport by British
Authorities under Schedule Seven of Britain’s Terrorism Act. At the time, as British intelligence
presumably knew, Miranda was acting as a courier for Greenwald and Poitras. According to
Greenwald’s account, Snowden had given both him and Poitras identical copies of the NSA
documents in Hong Kong. When Greenwald returned home to Rio de Janeiro, he found his copy
was corrupted. But Poitras still had her digital copy of whatever stolen documents that Snowden
had distributed to them. So Greenwald dispatched Miranda from Rio to Berlin to get a copy of
Poitras’ thumb dive. On the return trip, Miranda’s plane stopped at Heathrow and British
authorities temporarily detained him and temporarily took the thumb drive from him. Poitras had
written out the password for Greenwald, and Miranda kept it with the thumb drive. The British
quietly copied the contents and shared them with the NSA. As a result, the NSA discovered that
Snowden had only given Poitras and Snowden some 58,000 documents. By any measure, it was
only a tiny fraction of Snowden’s total haul. The damage assessment team under Ledgett
determined that some of these documents had been edited out of much larger documents that the
NSA logs showed that he had copied. Snowden had evidently selected for the journalist’s only
parts of the lengthy documents. For example, only scattered fragments of the 36,000 page “road
map” file were among the material on the thumb drive. By the count of both the NSA team and
the Defense Department team almost one million documents were unaccounted for. If Snowden
had not given these missing files to Poitras and Greenwald, the issue of what had happened to
them became a critical missing piece in the puzzle.

Adding another layer to the mystery of the missing documents, the NSA investigation found
that the chronology of the theft of documents did not support Snowden’s claim to journalists that
he had only been seeking whistle-blowing documents. Most of the documents he first took did
not concern the domestic activities of the NSA. It was only towards the end of the theft that he
copied documents that would qualify as whistle-blowing. In fact, the now-famous FISA court
order to Verizon that was the basis of the initial Guardian expose was only issued by the FISA
court on April 27, 2013. The other main whistle-blowing document he revealed, the PowerPoint
presentation about PRISM, a joint NSA-FBI-CIA Internet surveillance program, that was the
basis of the Washington Post expose, was also only issued in April 2013. Yet Snowden had been

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020188
