side of the fence where the grass wasn’t so green. Fortunately for me and
in some ways not, | was mostly expected to attend to only Jeffrey’s
insurmountable of sexual desires. Whereas the other girls who came one
day and went the next were promised a multitude of open doors just for
there meager participation in sexual acts with random men, only to be
disappointed when they realized they were nothing more than a single
night out for these geriatric senior citizens who most likely due
Alzheimer’s would sooner forget the entire experience let alone their first
name.

Surrounded by those in our world who many looked up too but not
seeing them from where | was standing, | didn’t have the highest of
standards in humanity. Then I met Al Gore and his lovely wife during
one of those many weekends away in the Caribbean. I was blown away
by the amount of attention Al doted on his wife, it was so sweet to watch.
They sat next to each other at the dinner table gazing into one another’s
eyes having an intimate conversation between them. Among the many
guests visiting that night and many of them young beautiful women, not
once did Al’s eye’s stray elsewhere, to them they were the only ones
there. He was up for a presidential election that year and he definitely had
my vote. Anyone that could show that much devotion and passion
towards his loved ones could have the same devotion towards running a
country, or at least I thought so. He only left his wife’s side to have a
walk down to the beach with the host of the weekend, Jeffrey. The
weather was still warm in the evening when I decided to break away from
the idle chat around the table and take a stroll too.

Not wanting to interrupt the conversation between Jeffrey and Al, I
walked in the opposite direction plucking the washed up sea shells
imbedded in the sand along the way. I enjoyed the serenity in the solitude
of the island. So many nooks and crannies to get lost in, I could imagine
that I actually disappeared from the entire world for a moment. By the
time I came back to the main house majority of the small crowd had been
long gone retired to their cabanas. Even Jeffrey had gone off to bed but
trust party animal Ghislane to still be up entertaining the remaining guests
left at the table, regaling her wild stories of people and places she has
embarked on. Trying not to make eye contact as I walked past them on
my way back to my cabana carrying my seashells inside my curled up
blouse, I wasn’t up for anymore pointless talking tonight. Emptying out
my seashells into a plastic bag, I went over my new treasures one by one.
I loved collecting odd things, shells being one of my favorites.

Ghislane and I shared that interest together. We would enjoy walk
abouts around the island searching for lost pieces of the remnants that
pirate’s had left behind centuries ago. It was mostly broken plates or
smashed glass from bottles of ale, and even occasionally getting lucky

109

enough to find some old coins here and there. It wasn’t easy though, both
loving a challenge it was perfect for us. Enduring many scratches from
the bushes we would be searching through and then the soar arms from
digging all day, but it was worth it in the end. After nearly two years of
collecting items and saving them, we made Jeffrey a mosaic table out of
the remaining pieces left from the era of the pirate’s day. Upon
completing it we were both astounded in our creation, it was such an item
of rarity and an interesting piece of work. When we presented it to Jeffrey
he was even impressed not only in our amazing finds but what we did
with them. The table became an important work of art that Jeffrey
showed off inside the main house’s lounge room, sparking a much
intrigue and table conversation by many of the visiting guests to his
island.

The next moming was good-bye for most of the visitors, leaving just
the usual behind. Soaking in the sun and living it up in the lap of luxury is
how the next few weeks were spent before having to get back to the
dredge of the city. Sometimes we'd have to go to St. Johns island for
Jeffrey to do some work in the office. It was so boring for me to sit in
their listening to him on the phone or coming down on some poor
employee for something stupid like not answering the phone correctly. If
I knew he was going to be awhile I would excuse myself for a bit of
shopping. Not that the Caribbean had much to offer in the world of
fashion but there was never an amount of bikinis one girl could own and I
loved all the little knick knacks one could find there. Flying back on a
private jet was the best part because I could transport just about anything
I wanted back to my apartment, which was already filled with an
assortment from my shopping ventures and collection of seashells from
the Caribbean.

The next big dinner party on the island had another significant guest
appearance being, the one and only, Bill Clinton. He is the only president
in the world to be dismissed from his role as a world leader because he
was caught with his trousers around his ankles and had the stain to prove
it. Publicly humiliating his wife and himself he retired from his title but
not from his lifestyle. This wasn’t a big party as such, only a few of us
eating at the diner table. There was Jeffrey at the head of it all, as always.
On the left side was Emmy, Ghislane and I. Sitting across the table from
us was Bill with two lovely girls who were visiting from New York.
Bill’s wife, Hillary’s absence from the night made it easy for his apparent
provocative cheeky side to come out. Teasing the girls on either side of
him with playful pokes and brassy comments, there was no modesty
between any of them. We all finished our meals and scattered in our own
different directions.

110

(1 Copyright Protected Material (0 Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004242 CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004243

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021199
