known . It had both sent in writing and spoken about on the phone numerous times ,_a detailed
execution plan was provided . then and only then after all was laid out for the group I was told that after a
number of conversations with brad karp that only 20m would be paid , (and even that was more than
originally contemplated ) for both transactions . I feel It was remarkably unfair. Did brad even know of
our prior agreement.? I called him and he said he was never told.?, I would ask that you I and Brad karp
sit together if you think it would be helpful. . I would like to send him this email, with your consent of
course. Ifthe transactions were never consummated , 1 would not be owed a dime, however , the price
was known up front. , the detailed step by step plan was followed and overseen by me, the price that had
been requested before the transaction was begun, and had Iready heavily discounted, out of friendship,
from our agreement . I believe the decision re paying only 20 m has frankly left me felling quite uneasy.

since you asked since last nov. ifound 11 million dollars in dormant accounts. 4 million dollars in
eileens drawer. . went through cash flows for phaidon shwoing that john murphy is not an accountant.
redid your gagosian contract ,. organized structure in case of divorce. set up gift trust. stopped ada from
including multiple times things not in your interest. dealt with bad sales tax use tax income tax . created
8 millino in deductions ,500k in mistakes , found bank of scotland fbar problems, . . reorg bad art
purchases , funds taken, , charibale decustions , helped with fincnacil sttment gamoing commions fling. .
boat deductions, rescued stock from grats.. may 1 after months of brad not finding anyone i sent an
email saying you would have to pay more. . on april 15. I sent an email detailing payments owed if i could
figure out the basis issue, please see attached, .

questions you might ask your team ask them to provide a balance sheet or p&1 for REgan arts.

doesnt exist

ask . either wechsler or haperin to tell you what brh is, or how the tra works. .. ? as bronstein to tell you
why the proposed phaidon transaction DOES not work. . as them to give you a plan for the plane. ? ask
them to show you the cash mgmt for over 100 million dollars. . ask them to show you the IT system
progress after one year. . the approval process for payables. . the cash flow projections? assumptions? ask
for a comparative review of investments. ask haperin to describle to you in any detail BRH , the major
asset of his two biggest clients. tax basis, disposiotion in the estate. . etc. ask brad to show you the
liquidation of the inteveing art space cos? .

Last year you asked , for my help I told you I preferred not as we would be better off having no financial
intereactions. the risk was not worth it. You told me that as my friend i had to do it I agreed., here
we are in what I find to be an awkward situation. the transactions that i decvised were used _, our
agreement was ignored. and im not sure how to respond.

Date: Tue, Oct 27, 2015 at 6:35 AM
Subject: Detailed constructive list.
To: Melanie Spinella >
Cc: Brad Wechsler FP tii

Deciisions needed asap 1 phaidon. topco etc. .( cash needs) many wires needed !! 2 new trustee or
not. - new decantings 3 art in art partnership.??! overdue ?!4 grats? window - 5 artspace. .6
regan arts. .7 plane simplify re strucuture re finance. re purpose . 8 .boat restrucutre , sister, 9 re
fresh estate plan. to consider modifications Alex Victoria equal does not mean same. 10. tra review ,

sale. , 11 brh, doc review, 12. sale of stock or art ? tax, rent sale 13. gifts of art. 14. charity current
and future pledges , gifts, 15 cash flow. . 16 . new IT and new personnel. 17. operational re-do ( bill pay

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023258
