50 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

The Unconventional View

Roger Penrose, Professor of Mathematics at Oxford University, holds a
completely different view. He thinks brains operate in a non-algorithmic
manner and provides a sketch of the possible mechanism in two books -
The Emperors New Mind and Shadows of the Mind. He suggests tubulin
molecules, which form the skeleton of our neurons, exploit quantum-
gravitational effects to calculate non-computable functions. The
scientific community was initially highly skeptical that quantum effects
could survive the warm, wet environment of biological systems, but in
January of 2014, Edward O'Reilly and others at UCL discovered plants
use quantum effects to improve the efficiency of photosynthesis. No
prize has yet been awarded for this discovery but it must be a contender
for a Nobel Prize at some point. Recently Travis Craddock, now of the
Nova Institute in Florida, has submitted a paper showing a very similar
geometry of proteins exists within tubulin microtubules in the brain. He
believes this is evidence quantum effects may exist there as well.

A simple quantum effect in the brain could merely reduce the
resistance of the wiring in the brain to help conserve power and avoid
overheating. We recognize this is a major problem in building small,
powerful conventional computers. Roger Penrose suggests an altogether
more radical idea. He proposes our brains are quantum gravity computers
capable of calculating non-computable functions. We don’t yet have a
theory for quantum gravity so his idea is at the cutting edge of physics
— read highly controversial. He raises a deep mathematical question. If
the Universe is deterministic and effectively equivalent to a computation,
how does ‘creative’ knowledge emerge within it? Lots of knowledge can
be manufactured by simply mechanically rearranging data. That’s what
happens when I watch a DVD or play a computer game, but, at some
point in the past, a director or a programmer had to put in the creative
effort to make the movie or write the computer program. How did that
happen? Was it baked into the fabric of the Universe at the moment of
the Big Bang? Is what we take for a Universe really nothing more complex
than putting a DVD in the slot and hitting play?

One last piece of trivia links Hofstadter with Penrose: Roger
Penrose and his father invented the Penrose Steps, inspiring the never-
ending staircase in the Escher prints featured in Hofstadter’s book. For
movie buffs, the Penrose steps appear in the film Inception, starring
Leonardo DiCaprio. The fact we get pleasure from these trivial links tells
me something is going on in our brains that is not so mechanical.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015740
