connected to Russian intelligence, Steele assembled a damaging report—now dubbed the
“dossier’—suggesting that Donald Trump was being blackmailed by the Putin
government. In September, Steele briefed reporters from the New York Times, the
Washington Post, Yahoo! News, the New Yorker, and CNN. All declined to use this
unverified information, with its unclear provenance, especially given that it was about an
unlikely election winner.

But the day before the scheduled press conference, CNN broke details of the Steele
dossier. Almost immediately thereafter, Buzzfeed published the entire report—an itemized
bacchanal of beyond-the-pale behavior.

On the verge of Trump’s ascendancy to the presidency, the media, with its singular
voice on Trump matters, was propounding a conspiracy of vast proportions. The theory,
suddenly presented as just this side of a likelihood, was that the Russians had suborned
Donald Trump during a trip to Moscow with a crude blackmail scheme involving
prostitutes and videotaped sexual acts pushing new boundaries of deviance (including
“golden showers”) with prostitutes and videotaped sex acts. The implicit conclusion: a
compromised Trump had conspired with the Russians to steal the election and to install
him in the White House as Putin’s dupe.

If this was true, then the nation stood at one of the most extraordinary moments in the
history of democracy, international relations, and journalism.

If it was not true—and it was hard to fathom a middle ground—then it would seem to
support the Trump view (and the Bannon view) that the media, in also quite a dramatic
development in the history of democracy, was so blinded by an abhorrence and revulsion,
both ideological and personal, for the democratically elected leader that it would pursue
any avenue to take him down. Mark Hemingway, in the conservative, but anti-Trump,
Weekly Standard, argued the novel paradox of two unreliable narrators dominating
American public life: the president-elect spoke with little information and frequently no
factual basis, while “the frame the media has chosen to embrace 1s that everything the man
does is, by default, unconstitutional or an abuse of power.”

On the afternoon of January 11, these two opposing perceptions faced off in the lobby
of Trump Tower: the political antichrist, a figure of dark but buffoonish scandal, in the
pocket of America’s epochal adversary, versus the would-be revolutionary-mob media,
drunk on virtue, certainty, and conspiracy theories. Each represented, for the other side, a
wholly discredited “fake” version of reality.

If these character notes seemed comic-book in style, that was exactly how the press
conference unfolded.

First Trump’s encomiums to himself:

“I will be the greatest jobs producer that God ever created... .”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019912
