be expressed in ways which do not take these appearances into account...and can
be specialized at will... DNA sequences are, as MIT molecular biologist, Eric
Lander observed, nothing more than an elementary “...list of parts...” In fact, since
about 1% of the nucleotides are relevant to functional genes, one might say that the
important members of this list of parts are distributed very thinly among many more
apparently unimportant ones. The next frontier will certainly involve § an
understanding of the dynamics of the interactions among elemental parts and in
more abstract laws about molecular biological relations; a focus on the dynamics,

not the structural parts, that regulate and control their expression.

* * *

| made a pilgrimage to spend eighteen months within Rene’ Thom’s
penumbra, living among mathematicians in his “ashram” in Bures sur Y’vette,
France. Thom was one of the founders of the /nstitute des Hautes D’Etudes, IHES,
Institute for Advanced Scientific Studies, created to stanch the flow of high-level
scientific talent away from France after the Second World War. It is in Bures sur
Y’vette, deep in a green forested valley, 50 or so miles South of Paris, in a building
packed with small, thin walled, big windows-on-the-woods offices. Each office
contained a single hard chair, an old office desk, two walls of blackboards and a box
of white only chalk. The use of colored chalk was felt to be without mathematical
rigor because its use substitutes colors as dimensional descriptors for more
demanding abstract and formal representations. Color was cheating. Meditation in
this ashram was practiced by staring, pacing, scribbling, and humming, mumbling,
belching and farting through the Institute’s thin office walls. The building, though
almost completely occupied, was otherwise silent. The Institute was populated by
such world-class mathematicians and theoretical physicists that once inside that
building, | felt so intimidated that | almost never spoke above a whisper. Listening to
excellent William Thurston’s casual use of a tiled bathroom floor to motivate a
unique partition of a topological space, | was attacked by the awe of an early
morning visit to an almost empty Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris or standing in front

of Michelangelo’s radiant marble statue of Mary and Jesus the Infant in the Vatican.

52

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013552
