MOSHE SAFDIE

Moshe Safdie is an architect, urban planner, educator,
theorist, and author. Embracing a comprehensive and
humane design philosophy, Safdie is committed to
architecture that supports and enhances a project’s
program; that is informed by the geographic, social, and
cultural elements that define a place; and that responds to
human needs and aspirations. Safdie has completed a wide
range of projects, such as cultural, educational, and civic
institutions; neighborhoods and public parks; mixed-use
urban centers and airports; and master plans for existing
communities and entirely new cities around the world.

Major projects by Safdie Architects currently under
construction or recently completed include Mamilla Alrov
Center, a dynamic urban center near the Old City in Jerusalem;
Marina Bay Sands, a mixed-use integrated resort in Singapore;
Khalsa Heritage Memorial Complex, the national museum
of the Sikh people in the Punjab, India; the United States
Institute of Peace Headquarters on the Mall in Washington,
D.C.; the National Campus for the Archeology of Israel in

Jerusalem; Golden Dream Bay, a high-density residential
project in Qinhuangdao, China; the Kauffman Center for the
Performing Arts in Kansas City, Missouri; and the Crystal
Bridges Museum of American Artin Bentonville, Arkansas.

Born in Haifa, Israel, in 1938, Safdie moved to
Canada with his family at a young age. He graduated from
McGill University in 1961 with a degree in architecture.
After apprenticing with Louis I. Kahn in Philadelphia, Safdie
returned to Montreal to oversee the master plan for the
1967 World Exhibition. In 1964 he established his own firm
to realize Habitat ’67, an adaptation of his thesis at McGill,
which was the central feature of the World’s Fair and a
groundbreaking design in the history of architecture.

In 1970, Safdie established a Jerusalem branch office,
commencing an intense involvement with the rebuilding of
Jerusalem. He was responsible for major segments of the
restoration of the Old City and the reconstruction of the new
center, linking the Old and New Cities. Over the years, his
involvement expanded and included the new city of Modi’in,

the new Yad Vashem Holocaust Museum, and the Rabin
Memorial Center. During this period, Safdie also became

involved in the developing world, working in Senegal, Iran,
Singapore, and in the northern Canadian arctic. In 1978,
after teaching at Yale, McGill, and Ben Gurion Universities,
Safdie relocated his residence and principal office to Boston.
He served as Director of the Urban Design Program at
Harvard University Graduate School of Design from 1978 to
1984, and Ian Woodner Professor of Architecture and Urban
Design from 1984 to 1989. In the following decade, he was
responsible for the design of six of Canada’s principal public
institutions, including the Quebec Museum of Civilization, the
National Gallery of Canada, and Vancouver Library Square.
Safdie has worked with a wide range of clients,
including municipal entities and government agencies,
colleges and universities, private developers, and non-
profit organizations and civic institutions. Many of his
firm’s buildings have become beloved regional and
national landmarks, including Exploration Place Science
Center, Wichita, Kansas; Salt Lake City Public Library,
Salt Lake City, Utah; Peabody Essex Museum, Salem,
Massachusetts; Springfield Federal Courthouse, Springfield,
Massachusetts; Skirball Cultural Center, Los Angeles,
California; Lester B. Pearson International Airport,
Toronto, Canada; the National Gallery of Canada; and
Yad Vashem Holocaust Museum, Jerusalem, Israel.
In addition to numerous articles on the theory
and practice of architecture, Safdie has written several
books, most notably, Beyond Habitat (1970), For Everyone a
Garden (1974), Form and Purpose (1982), and Jerusalem: The
Future of the Past (1989). The City After the Automobile (1997)
details Safdie’s ideas about urbanism and city planning. A
comprehensive monograph of his work, Moshe Safdie I, was
published in 1996. Moshe Safdie II, a second monograph
featuring work from 1996-2008, was published in 2009.
Safdie has been featured in several films, including
Moshe Safdie, The Power of Architecture, which is a portrait
film (directed by Donald Winkler, 2004), My Architect: A
Son’s Journey about Nathaniel Kahn and his father Louis
I. Khan (directed by Nathaniel Kahn, 2003), and The
Sound of the Carceri, about Bach and Piranesi, with Yo-
Yo Ma (directed by Francois Girard, 1997). In the fall of
2010, The National Gallery of Canada presented Global
Citizen: The Architecture of Moshe Safdie, an exhibition that
explores the architect’s buildings and design philosophy.
The exhibition is co-sponsored by Crystal Bridges Museum
of American Art and the Skirball Cultural Center.
Past exhibitions of Safdie’s designs include Building
a New Museum (Peabody Essex Museum, 2003-2004); Moshe
Safdie, Museum Architecture 1971-1998 (Tel Aviv University,
1998); Moshe Safdie, Projects: 1979-1989 (Harvard University
Graduate School of Design, 1989); and For Everyone a Garden
(Baltimore Museum of Art, National Gallery of Canada,
and San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, 1973-1974).
Safdie has been the recipient of numerous
awards, honorary degrees, and civil honors, including
the Companion of the Order of Canada and the Gold
Medal of the Royal Architectural Institute of Canada.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017556
