New Curricula for a New Way of Teaching 107

new predictions, and be prepared for these predictions to fail. This is
what thinking looks like no matter which cognitive process is being
thought about and practiced.

DIAGNOSIS

Now let’s talk about diagnosis. Again I will start with a story. This is
one I have been telling for a long time because it informs us about
how the mind works.

I was discussing with my colleague (Bob Abelson) how it could
be that my wife could not seem to make steak rare (as I like it—she is
no longer my wife, but not because of this). Bob responded that he
couldn't get his hair cut as short as he wanted in England 20 years
earlier.

This seems on the surface to be a rather odd response, but when
we look deeper we can see that I was saying something like, She could
do this right if she wanted to, and he was thinking, Maybe she thinks
the request is too extreme, as happened to me with a barber in Eng-
land many years ago.

Matching odd situations to other odd situations and seeing the
similarity is what creative thinking is all about. Bob was trying to di-
agnose a problem that had been on his mind for a long time, and my
new story provided him with new evidence to think again about what
the proper diagnosis might be. This is what thinking looks like. It is
also what reminding looks like. People get reminded precisely because
they are trying to match a new situation to one they already know
about and thereby determine what to do next. To put this another
way, diagnosis depends on prior diagnosis. We constantly are trying
to improve our diagnostic capability because we always strive to make
better decisions no matter what arena these decisions are in. The fact
that the improvement of diagnostic capability is not explicitly part of
each and every curriculum in school is scandalous.

When we design new curricula, we need to ground them in some
realistic framework that will enable students to practice things that
they might end up doing in the real world. But that does not mean
that the real issue in designing these curricula is anything other than
teaching thinking, that is, enabling practice in the 12 cognitive pro-
cesses. However, teaching thinking in the absence of a context that
truly interests students is absurd.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023853
