trusts ,defective trusts, Ilcs corps , trustees , partnerships. foreign corps. 100 bank account need to be
rationalized, not only having brad step in to children investments . gift taxes, trust , loans, notes. payables.
expenses allocations . . , insurance.( life , art, split dollar), cashflows, operating biz, , investments, contingent
liabilitiites.( funds , miami ) , commitments funds and charities , dividend treatment -important review of
transcations relating to BRH (amendments) TRA sale ( nuanced ) , shareholder agreements, bank loan
agreements new bank relationships. . wills, construction accounting and oversite , contracts planning
permits etc..employee rules, regs, .. checking account reconciliations, crediti cards. jewelry , cost basis ,( art
stock etc.) foundations regs , brokerage accts,. stock options,( ie environmental solutions still not done !).
estate tax calcualtion firedrill, ( note ,basis etc ) review of boat expenses plane expenses, depreciation issues
refunds etc. . rationalize all outside counsels and accounting firms

Paul Weisss , Mcdermit Will, Macfarlanes. Price Waterhouse , Reich, withers bergman, Empire, , akin gump,
bbd seidman, , Apollo in house counsel.

set up and oversee brokerage accounts at JPM DBGS and thoughfullly trade

.new IT system from top to bottom full time IT person

new accounting system - on- line banking cooridnated with reports . fire drills as per caruci ( he sounds good
and. audit system,s . review of john murphy? joslin? dag? eva? .

in house, review household ( 12million ) review, filings- partnerhip accounting,- familitarity with grats, trusts
etc . audit system put in place. that should be the easy part. then strategy re:

As new facts on the ground develop , phaidon debra, children meeetings, involvment ,

trustees adjusted, stock sale sale of art, , apt( large gain ), 1031 trade in , plane depreciation, boat sale.
construction , brad will oversee brokerage and investment, ?? pe?. real estate?, . publishing, grats, tra, brh (
death). foundation , museum, tax proejctions cash flow projections, cooridnation with tax from apollo. etc
you are sitting on over 100 m of cash???!!

Date: Fri, Jan 2, 2015 at 2:55 PM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella PO

Leon, I decided last week that there was little or no upside in disturbing your well earned holiday especiaily as
you seemed so peaceful happy and smiley ,getting yourself in shape and truly enjoying your family time. etc.
however the situation in your family office is unresolved. I am aware that brad starts monday howver, two last
days of the year madness. timber.deal not complete no jpm,acct activity no partnership docs, old stock
sales not complete , no bank doc redo. no phaidon note restructure, ., no boat expense review. airplane same
,topco midco.ete still not finished ( trustee ), projections mixed with fiction. , legal exp out of control. no
care for admin, silly ( audit). tom conversation with joslin. notes. debra, trustee notes. trustees hiring . bens
audit. interest payable made hoopjumping last day of year. after weeks and months. of lectures , gifts to
discuss- staff. -houseproject mgmt. . I will continue to try , I had offered ajoint call with eileen before you
left. asisaid before , joslin takes instructions from eileen. he said it was made clear to him that he doesn't
work for me but works for you. . I tried.

Date: Tue, Dec 29, 2015 at 7:26 AM

Subject: Fwd: leon DO NOT SEND, hand deliver.

To: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com>
Transaction complete !

. this - in spite of your collection of Elysium misfits. !!!

With Brad out of the office and unable to run his usual interference , the level of his utter incompetence was
brought front and center, he may be a step up from Eileen, but ifhe is, then it is not certainly not by much, .
Though you and I have spent many many hours discussing the importance of details and mechanics. I was not
shown one document re phaidon,- not one.. Brad wanted to keep it private between he and his so called
advisors  however as he was out of the office during the most important transaction of the year, I did get
to spend time with joslin Joe and john, - the situation in your office is wholly ludicrous - to summarize - the
list I provided to Brad last December - things I thought were a priority to get done after consulting with your
office still remains virtually undone.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023304
