having such an open conversation about things Jeffrey had never
experienced before and he seemed okay with everything I was telling him
as we were having a good laugh together, so I thought I could push it a bit
further and tell him the truth about T_J, since it was bound to come out
sooner than later I’d rather not the latter, when it would look even worse
that I kept the truth from him for so long.

“Well why were opening up about things together”, 1 continued by
saying “I had met someone from my past and we have been hanging out a
lot lately. When I haven’t been travelling with you I have been with him
and I was wondering if you minded if | started to see this guy.” He started
to laugh out loud, “Are you serious? Of course not, no one in this world is
monogamous, why would I expect you to be?” 1 was smitten with relief,
but a little bit dis-heartened when I heard him speak that way and I
wondered to myself if he’d had his own personal encounter with
heartache.

Of course the evening concluded in the same way it always had, the only
reason I was really even there in the first place. Upon his request I
straddled him on top of the table and let him explode with pleasure inside
of me. Thinking the entire time about T.J, I felt so terrible but I quickly
had to wipe the thoughts of guilt from my mind not to give Jeffrey the
wrong impression. So I had myself busy with two men in my life, but
that’s not what I really wanted for myself. | wanted an occupation that
would eventually set me free from depending on a man as my source of
survival.

lasked Jeffrey before I left for the evening, when my real training was
going to begin and he liked my assertiveness. I thought it meant to him
that I was taking my job with him seriously, but it was all part of his
master plan to keep me by his side. Within a couple of weeks of my
persistence, Jeffrey introduced me to a couple of real working massage
therapists, not only with credentials but with their own clientele too. I
was in awe of their teachings, it all made so much sense about the body
and what they were saying. I felt like I had picked myself up out of the
lurches and had a direction again.

I was in the middle of another training session, with Jeffrey the
recipient as usual, being it was rare for Ghislane to ask for a massage
unless of course it was for Jeffrey’s own pleasure to watch the punch line
of the session, when I was shocked to hear Jeffrey ask one of the
therapists to now remove her shirt. He had no shame I thought. Even
though she was above his usual age criteria, she was still a pretty woman
in her early 30’s with curly blonde hair and had an athletic body for a
mother of two children. She didn’t hesitate in his request. It looked like
something out of a role-playing porn scene with the therapist removing

43

1d Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004176

her white uniform to reveal her beautiful nude body and a much darker
side to her personality.

I couldn’t believe it at first it was such a state of shock and I began to
question t myself if this was normal in the massage profession to expect
this kind of clientele to request such degrading tasks even though they
were professionals. At the end of the session she was paid $300 dollars an
additional hundred for helping to train me as well, and 1 was paid my
usual! $200 dollars then we were both invited by Jeffrey to join him out
by the pool for a cool dip. With Jeffrey making a few phone calls while
her and | undressed again for a swim, | wanted to ask her a few personal
questions about what she’s come to learn about the Massage Therapy
game, but I never got the chance as we were joined by Ghislane moments
later. She was asking how my training was going and booked the
therapist in for herself in the following moming. Where she was invited
back to do another training session with me. It didn’t take me long to
figure out why.

I was at my apartment when I received a phone call from Jeffrey, |
thought it was the usual call to come over to his house, but he surprised
me. Instead I would be going to the exclusive hotel in Palm Beach
tonight, The Breaker’s, where I would be meeting my first ever clients.
Only told their first names I was given some instructions and the address
where to meet Glen and Eva. They were a married couple with one on the
way. I was quite concerned when I heard she was pregnant, being I really
didn’t know the body that well and didn’t want to inflict any wrong doing
on the unborn baby but Jeffrey insisted I take this job. Just massage her
gently where she wants to be rubbed and to save all of my energy for
Glen’s massage, since it was going to be a four-hour job. In an
emphasized tone of voice I was being coached by Jeffrey to treat Glen
with exactly whatever he wanted, just like I do for Jeffrey himself. It was
my last bit of preparation before he sent me out to his friends and my first
taste of responsibility in upholding his reputation.

At around seven pm I took a taxi to the address I was given and found
them on the residential side of the giant hotel’s extensive property. When
I arrived in their apartment it was a far cry from the lavish place I was
expecting, still really nice but had a cozier family feel to it. It was just
beginning to get dark when Eva and I went into the Master Bedroom and
she undressed to reveal the first naked pregnant body I had ever seen. It
was fascinating to see her in the later stages of maternity, and strangely
enough it was a miraculous and wondrous sight. She was a former model
and one of Jeffrey’s many entourages from his past that had gotten to old
for his taste and was married off to a wealthy colleague of his.

Lying down on the bed I adjusted the pillows to try and make her more
comfortable and | began to massage her as Jeffrey had instructed me to,

44

(] Copyright Protected Material

GIULTREO04 177

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021166
