The Question of When | 167

in a position to know Snowden’s contribution. “Let’s be frank,” he
said in a taped interview with NPR (in Russian), “Snowden did share
intelligence. This is what security services do. If there’s a possibility
to get information, they will get it.”

Even without Klintsevich’s comments, top American intelligence
officers had little doubt that the Russian security services would do
their job. Michael Hayden, for example, who in succession headed
three American intelligence services, was certainly in a position to
appreciate the capabilities of the Russian and Chinese intelligence
services. He told me in 2014 that he saw no other possibility than
that Snowden would be induced to cooperate in this situation, say-
ing, “I would lose all respect for the Russian and Chinese security
services if they haven’t fully exploited everything Snowden had to
give.” They certainly had that opportunity when Snowden spent
almost six weeks at Sheremetyevo International Airport. The FSB
controlled his access to food, lodgings, the Internet, and whatever
else he needed to survive there. If he did not cooperate, the FSB
could also return him to the United States, where in the eyes of the

© Department of Justice he had betrayed the United States by stealing ®
secrets and taking them abroad. What recourse did Snowden have?
In a word, the FSB held all the cards but one—Snowden’s help with
the stolen documents. Even if Snowden disliked the tactics of the
Russian security services, he now had a powerful inducement not to
decline the requests of the Russian authorities.

Two weeks after his arrival, the Russian authorities provided him
with a convenient path to full cooperation with Russia. He was put
in contact with Anatoly Grigorievich Kucherena, a silver-haired,
fifty-two-year-old lawyer who is known to be a personal friend of
Putin’s. Kucherena did tasks for Putin’s party in the Russian parlia-
ment, or Duma. He had excellent connections in the Russian secu-
rity apparatus because he served on the oversight committee of the
FSB. Kucherena offered to serve as Snowden’s pro bono lawyer. On
July 12, Snowden officially retained him as his legal representative in
Moscow. In explaining the relationship, Kucherena said, “Officially,
he is my client, but at the same time, I provide a number of other
services to him.” According to Kucherena, Snowden turned down

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 167 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019655
