48

from a fully accredited technical school or university. Snowden did not meet these standards.
Lacking these qualifications, the CIA can make an exception only if a candidate had at least two
years civilian or military work experience in the telecommunications and/or automated
information systems field that are comparable to one of the requisite degree fields. , Even here,
Snowden in no way qualified. He did not have the education qualifications or two-year work
experience anywhere. In fact, his only paid work was as a security guard at a language school at
the University of Maryland, and that job lasted less than one year.

Under extraordinary circumstances, even the minimum requirements might be waived if the
applicant had a distinguished military career and an honorable discharge. Snowden, however, did
not complete his military training at Fort Benning, Georgia and received only an administrative
discharge.

The CIA, to be sure, had needed computer savvy recruits to service its expanding array of
computer systems since 1990. By 2006, however, there was no shortage of fully-qualified
applicants for IT jobs who met the CIA’s minimum standards. Most of them had university
course records, work experience at IT companies, computer science training certificates from
technical schools, and other such credentials they could provide the personnel office. The CIA,
like the NSA, also obtained technicians with special skills for IT jobs from outside contractors. So
it had no need for employing a 22-year old drop-out who did not meet its requisites. According
to the former CIA station chief, the only plausible way that Snowden, with no qualifications, was
allowed to jump the queue was that “he had some pull.”

In 2006, Snowden was not without family connections. His grandfather, it will be recalled was
Rear Admiral Barrett, who certainly was well-connected in the intelligence world. After 20 years
service in the Coast Guard, Admiral Barrett joined an interagency task force in 1998, which
included top executives from the CIA, FBI, and DEA. It had been set up to monitor any gaps in
the US embargo on Cuba and, as one of its leaders, Barrett was in constant liaison with the CIA.
Following the attack on the World Trade Center in NY in 2001, he joined the FBI as the section
head of its aviation and special operations. In this capacity, he supervised the joint CIA/FBI
interrogation of the prisoners in the Guantanamo base in Cuba which involved him in the rendition
program for terrorist. As atop FBI executive in a liaison role with the CIA, he certainly had
could have played a role in furthering his only grandson’s employment. The CIA, however, has
not disclosed any information about whom, if anyone, recommended Snowden. All that is known
is that in 2006 the CIA waived its minimum requirements for Snowden.

However Snowden got his job at the CIA, it meant, as he pointed out from Moscow, that in
2006 his entire family was employed by the Federal government. His father Lon in 2006 was
serving in the Coastguard; his mother Wendy was the administrative clerk for the Federal Court in
Maryland; his sister Jessica was a research director at the Federal Judicial Center; and his
namesake grandfather, Admiral Barrett, was still a top executive at the FBI. In a sense, Snowden
had now entered the family business.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020200
