arrive—and soon he does, tanned, relaxed, with wide open smile,
accompanied by three young women.

It would be unlikely, outside of a men’s magazine fantasy of the luxe
life, that you could locate this in reality. Epstein’s attentions, taking time
with each of his passengers, seemed impossible to account for. The quiet of
the plane, engineered into acoustic perfection, seemed spooky. Epstein’s
three companions were witty, poised, helpful as well as powerfully
alluring—as though stewardesses of bygone times.

(One more thing about this trip: Google founders, Larry Page and
Sergey Brin, with their company still in its infancy, came out to see the
plane and, with a few other Googlers, literally ran whopping from one end of
the plan to the other. Then they described for Epstein, in what I can not now
remember as a put on or entrepreneurial brainstorm, a brand extension in
which they would market a line of Google bras with the Os as convenient
cups. In fact, the name Google, they said, was invented out of the belief that
men would focus on a word with two Os in it.)

Not long after this trip, Epstein’s assistant called to invite me for tea at
his house in New York, where Epstein, with what seemed to me little
understanding of the subject, began to ask me about media—the upside,
downside, and nature of media coverage. New York magazine was then
soliciting him for a profile, as was Vanity Fair, who had assigned the British
tabloid reporter, Vicki Ward, to the job.

Both profiles, New York’s by Landon Thomas, pivot on the Clinton
connection and detail the same quandary, how a man without clear
institutional bona fides nevertheless achieves wealth and influence. Ward—
who would more recently assert in the Daily Beast, that she was barred by
Vanity Fair from writing about under-age sex evidence (a fact that could be
read the other way: Vanity Fair, even looking to take down Epstein, did not
find the evidence credible)—follows a rabbit hole of questionable contacts
who might or might not have been the source or sources for Epstein’s
wealth, but gets no closer to an answer, beyond confirming her own sense of
dubiousness.

Epstein, sensing that he might be exposing himself, tried to stop the
process (Ward, well known for offering an operatic view about her reporting
exploits, says he threatened her), called Carter and said he was having
second thoughts about being a public figure.

“Then you should live in a two bedroom apartment in Queens,”
responded Carter.

And then the troubles began.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022740
