wow Om A Oh Pw DY BK

NN NNN NY EY BP eH BP Pe RP PP Pp RP
WO PWN HF Ow OYA MU BR WN BO

wo Ow A MN FP WN

NNNNN NFP RP RP RP Be ep Rp pp
“Opwnh PP Ob OYA UM BwWN PHO

217

demonstrably false, but you could have easily
discovered that the implication you were drawing was
demonstrably false by simply taking one second and
Googling her name as my wife did.

BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. And so at 25 years old, she wasn't a young
woman?

A. She was not the kind of woman that I was
describing as underage. She was a mature, serious,

I think I said in my public statements a model. 1
wasn't aware at the time that see was working for
Victoria's Secrets, but Google demonstrates that.
And I described her exactly, in exactly the right
terms, a serious person.

I always saw her dressed when I saw her -~-
I saw her maybe on two or three occasions, dressed
appropriately. She was a serious adult worker and I
think you insult and demean her when you suggest
that anything other than that she was a serious
adult when she flew on that airplane.

Q. You were asked on the occasion of that
same Don Lemon CNN interview what possible motive
the attorneys, Brad Edwards and Paul Cassell, could
have had to have identified you in the pleading that
was filed in the Crime Victim's Rights Act case.

_

warn nw be wn Bb

NNN NNN PRP BP Pe RP op BP Pp
OB WN HF OU MAA KH FWN RO

she has a history of lying, knowing that she is

easily suggestible, and they basically pressured

her, according to my sources, into including me when
she didn't want to include me, because by including
me, they could make a claim, false as it was, could
make a false claim that a person who negotiated the
NPA was also criminally involved with her.

They also lied -- lied unethically and
unprofessionally by saying that I negotiated that
provision of the NPA, which gave me, myself, any
kind of immunity from prosecution had I had improper
sex with Virginia Roberts, which, of course, I did
not. And that was one of the bases on which I was
certain that they had engaged in unprofessional,
disbarrable and unethical conduct by including that
provision, as well as including a provision that
Prince Andrew was included because he, Prince
Andrew, pressured a United States attorney to try to
get a good deal for Jeffrey Epstein.

That is so laughable. How any lawyer
could put that in a pleading, it doesn’t pass even
the minimal giggle test. And I'm embarrassed for
Professor Cassell that he would have signed his narne
to a pleading that alleges that Prince Andrew would
pressure the United States attorney for the Southern

Do you remember that?

A. That's right, yes.

Q. And your response was, quote —-

MR. SCOTT: Here's your transcript if you
need to refer to it.
BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. - They want to be able to challenge the
plea agreement and I was one of the lawyers who
organized the plea agreement. I got the very good
deal for Jeffrey Epstein.

Did you make that response?

A. Yes.

Q. So, you recognized as of January 5, 2015,
that the reason why the statements were filed in the
Crime Victim's Rights Act case was because the Crime
Victim's Rights Act case had, as an objective,
setting aside the plea agreement that you had
negotiated for Jeffrey Epstein, correct?

MR. SCOTT: Objection, form. Go ahead if
you can answer it.

A. There were multiple motives. One of the
motives was crassly financial. They were trying to
line their pockets with money. But as I also said,
and I said this over and over again, they profiled
me. They sat down with their client, knowing that

wow Oy A MW BP WD BP

NNN NPP eH BP RP Pp pp PP
WONHF OU ON DM BW ND BO

N
wn

District of Florida into giving Jeffrey Epstein a
good deal.

MR. SCAROLA: Move to strike the
unresponsive portions of the answer. And
obviously the break didn't do any good.

MR. SCOTT: Let's proceed.

MR. SCAROLA: We're going to.

BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. You stated, quote: If they, referring
to Bradley Edwards and Paul Cassell, could find a
lawyer who helped draft the agreement -—-

A. Right.

Q. -- who also was a criminal having sex,
wow, that could help them blow up the agreement.

Did you make that statement on --

A. Yes. |} just repeated it now, yes, under
oath, yes.

Q. Did you state the following in that same
interview: So they, referring to Bradley Edwards,
Paul Cassell and Virginia Roberts, sat down
together, the three of them, these two sleazy,
unprofessional disbarrable lawyers --

A. Uh-huh, uh-huh.

Q. -- they said --

MR. SCOTT: Let him ask the question.

11 (Pages 217 to 220)

www. phippsreporting.com
(888) 811-3408

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010793
