It seems that these infusions from savings or gift cannot be interpreted as invested
consumption to be recovered with interest later, but are rather pure consumption
recovered now in the satisfaction of survival. Then human cash flow, or pay less
invested consumption, remains positive to the end if we recognize imputed pay.
Economists should, | think, because it figures into predicting behavior as much as

literal pay. So does psychic pay.

It follows that human capital, meaning present value of all pay in the absence of
invested consumption to deduct, continues after retirement. That shows that my
parable of the boss and her secretary is oversimplified. Parables tend to be. The
secretary may happen to have better skills as a full-time caregiver, which both she
and the boss will figure to be in retirement, and so may reverse the disparity in

human capital then. All models, I guess, assume ceteris paribus (other things equal).

My retirement theory leaves much unexplained. It tries to throw a little light here
and there. | believe it achieves some surprise, and even originality until we know
better, in my argument that human capital continues after retirement. Yet this
follows directly from Ben-Porath. Invested consumption must end when time for
recovery runs out, whether or not I am right in ending it with job entry decades
before, and human capital must last as long as literal or imputed pay does. The
endurance of human capital through to mortality is not logical certitude, but need

not be doubted either.

Retouching the Ben-Porath Model

Ben-Porath’s life cycle model seems right enough in all features but one. Equations
in his 1967 paper imply that pay measures realized work alone. This should be
adjusted to show the pay rule. I would also model invested consumption as ending
at independence, or a few months later to allow for initial job training. That does not
contradict Ben-Porath, who leaves such a possibility open. I would further apply
depreciation theory to model human depreciation as growing from a negligible

share of pay at first employment to substantially all of pay at the end.

Chapter 2: Fast Forward 1/06/16 23

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010963
