Public Investment Fund to gain prominence

The restructuring of the Public Investment Fund (PIF) is likely to allow greater focus on
achieving a diversified foreign asset base which could support in turn the build-up of
non-oil revenues. According to Deputy Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman,
government ownership of Saudi Aramco would be transferred to the PIF, which will be
transformed into a SWF that will look to increase its overseas assets (from 5% of total
to 50% of total by 2020) following its recapitalization and the proceeds of Aramco IPO.
The PIF would hold on-paper a vast amount of wealth post-IPO (USS2trn, according to
the Deputy Crown Prince, the bulk of which would be Saudi Aramco) as ownership of
Saudi Aramco is transferred to the PIF, but it would only be able to deploy the cash
proceeds of the monetized Aramco stake in the near-term, in our view. We think the
PIF’s transformation is still at a relatively early stage for now.

Room to grow PIF stature and budget contribution

The restructuring of the PIF is likely to allow further diversification of foreign assets,
which will in turn increase the share of investment income in the budget over time. We
estimate that in 2015 investment income transferred to the budget stood at USS9.9bn
(1.5% of GDP), which entails transfers of US$4bn from the PIF and USS5bn from SAMA.
These transfers pale in comparison to the estimated budgetary contributions among
main GCC peers. We estimate that the rate of return (investment income) on foreign
assets of SAMA, government entities and the private sector averaged c2% over the past
8 years, which already suggests some exposure to riskier asset classes, in our view. As
the PIF gains importance, it will become more prominent in the examination of the
breakdown of the Saudi Net International Investment Position .

Transitioning to an Abu Dhabi model

It will be interesting to see how the restructuring of the PIF into an SWF works out in
practice. We hypothesise that it may be that, on top of the monetization of Aramco's
stake sale, PIF could get a portion of the assets of SAMA. In this scenario, we would
effectively transition to the Abu Dhabi and Kuwait model where the central bank holds
little reserves and non-transparent SWFs are what matters both in terms of flow and
stock. Foreign assets purchases of the PIF would also have to be managed within the
overall Balance of Payments (BoP) framework as they could lead to drains on SAMA
reserves in the near term. Over time, Saudi Arabia could decide to emulate the Norway
model, which would entail a more prudent use and conduct of fiscal policy, in our view.

Chart 1: PIF budget contributions small versus GCC SWF contributions Chart 2: High rate of return suggests foreign assets well diversified
40 40 <= |mplied rate of return with respect to IIP assets (%) 30
mUS$bn m@%ofGDP m% of total revenues Implied rate of return with respect to SAMA reserve assets (%)| ~”
35 === Net income balance (% of GDP, rhs) 25
30 2.0
25 1.5
20 1.0
15 a
10 0.0
5 -0.5
-1.0
0 jaa] N tse] st lo co ~ Cc fo?) f=] —_ N oO t+ wo
. . 7 : : oS SoS o oo So So oS So Oo x x x x —- x
Qatar Abu Dhabi Kuwait SaudiArabia Dubai RRS RRRKRKRKCKKRRKRKKAA
Source: Haver, IMF, Saudi Ministry of Finance, BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research. 2015 data, Source: Haver, BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research. Implied rate of return on SAMA reserve assets
Investment income and transfer of profits of public entities for Kuwait. Investment income from simplistically assumes all investment income is earned by SAMA (instead of being earned by SAMA,
public enterprises (incudes Qatar Petroleum’s net income) for Qatar. government entities and the private sector).
OS erartll Lynch GEMs Paper #26 | 30 June 2016 7

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016117
