All U.S. resident custodians and end-investors with holdings of foreign portfolio securities above the
reporting thresholds must report. In addition, all U.S.-resident custodians and end-investors that are
notified by the FRBNY are required to file a report.

The reporting threshold for Schedule 2 is $200 million in total fair value of all foreign securities owned
by the SHC Reporter and not held with a U.S.-resident custodian. The reporting threshold for Schedule
3 is $200 million in total fair value of foreign securities held with any one unaffiliated U.S.-resident
custodian that is not a central securities depository.

Custodians are all organizations that hold securities in safekeeping for other organizations. Most U.S.-
resident custodians also invest in foreign securities for their own account. U.S.-resident custodians
should report both the foreign portfolio securities held in safekeeping for other U.S. residents and their
own foreign portfolio securities.

End-investors are U.S.-resident organizations that invest in foreign securities for their own portfolios or
invest on behalf of others, such as investment managers/fund sponsors. This includes securities that are
held-for-trading, available-for-sale, or held-to-maturity. U.S.-resident end-investors include, but are not
limited to:

° Financial and non-financial organizations
° Managers of private and public pension funds
° Managers/sponsors of funds, country funds, unit-investment funds, exchange-traded funds,

collective-investment trusts, hedge funds or any other similarly pooled, commingled funds. Also
managers/sponsors of private equity companies, venture capital companies, hedge funds and other
private investment vehicles

° Insurance companies

° Foundations

° Institutions of higher learning

° Trusts and estates

e Funds and similar entities that own shares or units of, or other portfolio equity interests in,

a foreign related or non-related entity

Form SHC is comprised of three schedules:

Schedule 1 - Must be filed by all entities that 1) receive a copy of the SHC forms and instructions
from the FRBNY, or 2) are notified by the FRBNY that they are required to file the SHC report.
Schedule 1 requests information that identifies the reporter. It also provides contact
information, indicates the reporting status, and summarizes the data, if any, reported on
Schedule 2 and/or Schedule 3.

Schedule 2 - Used to report detailed information on foreign securities owned by U.S.-resident
investors (1) that the reporter safe-keeps for itself or for its U.S.-resident clients or (2) for which
the reporter directly employs foreign-resident sub-custodians or U.S.-resident or foreign-
resident central securities depositories (CSDs) to manage the safekeeping of those securities
(Foreign securities in safekeeping with U.S.-resident CSDs are reportable on Schedule 2.) or (3)
that are instruments of the type that there is no U.S. custodian to manage the safekeeping of
those securities.

Schedule 3 - Used to report summary amounts for all foreign securities entrusted to the
safekeeping of a U.S.-resident custodian, excluding those entrusted to a U.S. - resident CSD.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026665
