James PATTERSON

making.* And it’s not like she’s running off to do something

crazy. After all, Wendy's assured her already that there's nothing

to worry about.

Mary’s father is Cuban—an immigrant—a self-made man who

runs a contracting business. He’s wise to the ways of the world

and highly protective of his two daughters. They're good girls, he
knows. Almost angels. As far as he knows, they don’t drink.
They've never tried drugs. They love clothes and, especially,
music—Britney Spears, Nelly Furtado, Maroon 5, the boy band

with that dreamy lead singer. Mary loves California, which she’s

never seen but daydreams about. She just knows she'll live there
someday—a plan that’s okay with her father as long as Mary
keeps up with her homework and chores.

What he worries about, in the meantime, is the crowd that
Mary runs with.

Joe is a fine boy. More responsible than most American boys
his age. But Joe’s cousin, Wendy, is another story. Mary’s father
doesn’t like Wendy at all and would have liked her even less had
he known about Wendy’s intentions.

In just one hour, Wendy’s told Mary, she can make more

money than her father makes in a day: “This guy in Palm Beach.

He’s rich. Very rich. He has an airplane. He owns an island, you
know?”

Like a lot of kids who live inland, away from the Florida
coast, Mary’s dreams reach way beyond the dull, scrubby flat-

* Wendy Dobbs’s name, some identifying details, and dialogue have been

changed.

10

ites

Sateen

lands and strip malls s.
that she wants to do anc
miles away, might as we
“Yes,” she had said, v
Then there was Joe t
“Who is this guy?” Jc
know a thing about him
“Hundreds of dollar:
quite look at Joe, but she
Joe seemed to think
conversation—some bac
hadn't even crossed Mar
would become a regular
“To rub his feet? Are:
it, why haven't you told °
“It's your cousin, Joe!
“The guy’s feet must |
“Shut up!”
“Tell your father.”
“You know how LC
everything.”
“Tm not going to som
“That's right. J am.”
“And if I told your fatl
“You'd never see me aj
Mary felt bad as she sz
She knew that it woul
Wendy had told her tk

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019126
