What do you enjoy sharing or experiencing with other people?

5. Based on the outcomes of steps 1—4, consider testing new part- or full-time vocations.
Full-time work isn’t bad if it’s what you’d rather be doing. This is where we distinguish “work” from a
“vocation.”

If you have created a muse or cut your hours down to next to nothing, consider testing a part-time or
full-time vocation: a true calling or dream occupation. This is what I did with this book. I can now tell
people [’m a writer rather than giving them the two-hour drug dealer explanation. What did you dream of
being when you were a kid? Perhaps it’s time to sign up for Space Camp or intern as an assistant to a
marine biologist.

Recapturing the excitement of childhood isn’t impossible. In fact, it’s required. There are no more
chains —or excuses—to hold you back.

81. Abraham Maslow, the American psychologist famous for proposing “Mas-low’s Hierarchy of
Needs,” would term this goal a “peak experience.”

82. There is a place for koans and rhetorical meditative questions, but these tools are optional and
outside the scope of this book. Most questions without answers are just poorly worded.

83. Ellen Bialystok and Kenji Hakuta, In Other Words: The Science and Psychology of Second-
Language Acquisition (Basic Books, 1995).

16)

The Top 13 New Rich Mistakes

If you don’t make mistakes, you’re not working on hard enough problems. And that’s a big
mistake.

—FRANK WILCZEK, 2004 Nobel Prize winner in physics

Ho imparato che niente e impossibile, e anche che quasi niente e facile ... (I’ve learned that
nothing is impossible, and that almost nothing is easy ...)

—ARTICOLO 31 (Italian rap group), “Un Urlo”

Msstane are the name of the game in lifestyle design. It requires fighting impulse after impulse

from the old world of retirement-based life deferral. Here are the slipups you will make. Don’t get
frustrated. It’s all part of the process.

1. Losing sight of dreams and falling into work for work’s sake (W4W) Please reread the
introduction and next chapter of this book whenever you feel yourself falling into this trap. Everyone
does it, but many get stuck and never get out.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013988
