We see also:

About BL: Bin Laden established camps inside Khyber Pakhtunkhwa in Pakistan and trained
volunteers from across the Muslim world to fight against the Soviet-backed regime, the Democratic
Republic of Afghanistan” (Wikipedia)

About EP: In his autobiography, he states that during the Yugoslav Wars in the early 1990s, he
realized the need for private training facilities for special operations... Prince moved to Virginia
Beach and personally financed the formation of Blackwater Worldwide in 1997. He bought 6,000
acres (24 km2) of the Great Dismal Swamp of North Carolina and set up a school for special
operations” (Wikipedia)

Erik Prince is (becoming) no less an Amer. intelligence success story than bin Laden (in support of
Terrorism as Geostrategy & a New World Order - see below). In short: (we note the repeating 9/11s,
every 11 years): Toward a NWO speech by Bush #41 - Sept. 11 (90); The WTC - Sept. 11 (01);
Benghazi - Sept. 11 (12). (There is rhy. & reason also 2 the rise of ISIS.)

KKK

About training camps:

| watched so to speak the creating of little torture pockets around the world as justified by Obama's
desire to close Gitmo. The White House reports (2/23/16): We'll continue to securely and
responsibly transfer to other countries the 35 detainees already approved for transfer. This process
involves extensive and careful coordination across our federal government to ensure that our
national security interests are met when an individual is transferred to another country. We insist, for
example, that foreign countries institute strong security measures.” But are these not just the seeds
of new training camps (growing concentrated and lauded violent temperaments) & was that not
someone's exact intent?

In real-time (and as perpetrated on captured children):

3/19/14, sent to the now defunct FB page of D. Cheney:
Dick Cheney,

| wonder if it's possible that there is coordination with other countries concerning enhanced
interrogation techniques, in the form of training perhaps?

Specifically, here in the United States, my sense is that there may be the use of vulnerable

populations, with the intension to gain favor with and/or intimidate others, especially members of the
international community.

*

And:

On Saturday, June 21, 2014 6:37 AM, EE wrote:
1 ae

Deputy Lyddy,

Her energy is very weak. She is physically exhausted, VERY sleep deprived, and HUNGRY.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015026
