aimed at me from anyone if I can help it. Apparently even saying is a lier has hazard! I have never
been in a suit criminal or civil and want it to stay that way.

The US lawyers for the Jane Does are filling additional discovery motions and if I speak I open my self to being
part of discovery apparently. I am trying to stay out of litigation and not have to employ lawyers for years as I
get lost in US legal nightmare. I stand no legal risk currently on these old charges and civil suits against Jeffrey
We need to consult with US lawyers on any statement I make and the complaints too

Perhaps we make a statement of the legal risk of saying anything for potential defamation or something that
prevents a full and frank detailed rebuttal + the press not being the place for that? Regardless, Philip plse call
jeffrey lawyer and see what you can understand from him and pehaps craft something in conjunction with him?
Either way I think you need to speak to him to understand my risk so you can help me understand it - too may
cooks in the kitchen and I can't make good decisions. Plse reach out to him today

+ | have already suffered such a terrible and painful loss over the last few days that I can't even see what life
after press he'll even looks like - statements that don't address all just lead to more questions..what is my
relationship to clinton ? Andrew on and on.

Let's rest till monday. I need head space

THE TERRAMAR PROJECT
FACEBOOK

TWITTER

Gt

PINTEREST

INSTAGRAM

PLEDGE

THE DAILY CATCH

This email is intended for the addressee named within only. It may contain legally privileged or confidential
information. If you are not the named individual you should not read this email and if you do so, you must not
under any circumstances make use of the information therein. If you have read this email and it is not addressed
to you, please notify IT@devonshires.co.uk<mailto:[T@devonshires.co.uk> and confirm that it has been
deleted from your system and no copies made.

This Firm is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority under the name of Devonshires
Solicitors and registration number 0049857. This Firm does not accept service by electronic mail or facsimile.
A list of partners, together with further legal statements, is available upon request or at
www.devonshires.co.uk/terms-and-conditions/legal-notices.html<http://www.devonshires.co.uk/terms-and-

conditions/legal-notices.html>

Devonshires Solicitors, 30 Finsbury Circus, London EC2M 7DT tel Pe fix ii
Le

Where instructions have been given by Devonshires Solicitors to a barrister to work on a client’s matter, we
notify you, on behalf of that barrister, that you have the right to make a complaint about the service provided by
that barrister or about the conduct of their Chambers. A copy of the barrister and / or their Chambers’
complaints procedure may be obtained by contacting the Senior Clerk of that Chambers, whose contact details
can be found online, or from us. Complaints may be made direct to the barrister / their Chambers. Please note

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030297
