In healthy people, an awareness of self is not lost during this time of invasion
by and fusion with what feels like an independent agency. At full force, the mystical
experience is transfixing, tending to paralyze movement and speech, and at the
same time bringing with it the capacity for clear sensory and sensory-integrative
lucidity. This new seeing brings previously unnoticed things to attention and makes
old things new. Perhaps most striking is the passive (unsought) experience of the
unification of erstwhile disparate, apparently unrelated thoughts and feelings. The
yield can be the sudden emergence of deep relationships between apparently very
different constructs, beliefs and formalisms leading to unanticipated and unsought
integrative connections. In mathematics, this experience can lead to entirely new
kinds of theorems and proofs; in the physical and biological sciences, a previously
unseen organization of the data generating new global relationships and potential
scientific laws. In our spiritual life, the ineffable richness of the direct experience of
God.

Mysticism-negative interpretations of these experiences have always been
attendant. To the extent that the mystic’s inward turn is seen as a detachment and
implicit derogation of the external, consensually real world, it is often seen as
alienating from established institutions of religion and government. Psychoanalytic
practitioners may label it a regression to primary narcissism. Most churches tend to
discourage its practice as counter to the dominant social hierarchy and _ its
governance. Governments pass laws against its practice and manifestations, a
current example being modern Chinese governmental reactions to the Tibetan
Buddhism of the Dalai Lama and the yogic practices of the Falon Gong. Agencies of
established society such as the institutions of licensed medical practice make the
dominance of the inner world of mysticism subject to diagnoses ranging from the
narcissistic character disorders to interpretations of the reported extraordinary
experiences as manifestations of schizophrenia, manic-depressive disorder or
temporal lobe epilepsy. Rejection and fear of the transcendent states lead to
uninformed and politicized anti-narcotic laws, grouping heroine and cocaine with the
entheogenic (recall: engendering connection with the sacred within) agents such as

the Huichol Indian’s peyote and the Amazonian Indian’s yage, obstruct and socially

118

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013618
