Table of Contents
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Below is a list of the names, ages, positions, and a brief account of the business experience of the individuals who serve as executive officers of
Carvana Co. as of April 23, 2019:

NAME AGE POSITION

Ernest Garcia III 36 President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman
Mark Jenkins 40 Chief Financial Officer

Benjamin Huston 36 Chief Operating Officer

Ryan Keeton 41 Chief Brand Officer

Daniel Gill 36 Chief Product Officer

Paul Breaux 35 Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

Ernest Garcia III is the president and chief executive officer of Carvana and the chairman of our Board. His biography can be found above
under “Board of Directors and Corporate Governance — Continuing Directors.”

Mark Jenkins has served as our chief financial officer since July 2014. Prior to joining Carvana, Mr. Jenkins was a professor in the finance
department at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania from 2009 to 2014, where his teaching and research focused on consumer and
corporate credit markets. While at Wharton, Mr. Jenkins was responsible for teaching courses in the undergraduate, MBA, and executive education
programs on corporate restructuring, corporate credit, and leveraged finance. Prior to his time at Wharton, Mr. Jenkins worked at the Brattle Group from
2001 to 2004, an economic consulting firm, where he focused on corporate valuation and demand forecasting in technology markets. Mr. Jenkins received a
Ph.D. in economics from Stanford University and a B.S.E. from Duke University in mathematics and civil engineering.

Benjamin Huston co-founded Carvana and has served as our chief operating officer since our inception in 2012. In 2011, prior to joining
Carvana, Mr. Huston co-founded Looterang, a card-linking platform that enabled personalized deals to be automatically administered through consumer
credit or debit cards. Mr. Huston was chief executive officer of Looterang from 2011-2012. From 2008 to 2011, Mr. Huston served as an associate at
Latham and Watkins, a full-service global law firm, where he focused on regulatory affairs. Mr. Huston holds a J.D. from Harvard Law School and a B.A.
in American studies from Stanford University.

Ryan Keeton co-founded Carvana and has served as our chief brand officer since our inception in 2012. Prior to joining Carvana, Mr. Keeton
was a principal at the Montero Group, a strategic consultancy firm, from 2010 to 2012, where he advised global public and private companies on strategic
and business initiatives. From 2008 to 2010, Mr. Keeton served as director of strategic marketing for George P. Johnson, a global marketing agency.

Mr. Keeton holds a B.A. in English and American literature and language from Harvard University.

- [7 -

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024325
