Gorillas can crawl after 2 months, and build their own nests after 2.5 years. They leave their mothers at 3-4
years. Human children are pretty much useless during the first 10-12 years, but during each phase, their
brains have the opportunity to encounter many times as much training data as a gorilla brain. Humans are
literally smarter on every level, and because the abilities of the higher levels depend on those of the lower
levels, they can perform abstractions that mature gorillas will never learn, no matter how much we try to
train them.

The second set of mechanisms is in the motivational system. Motivation tells the brain what to pay attention
to, by giving reward and punishment. If a brain does not get much reward for solving puzzles, the individual
will find mathematics very boring and won't learn much of it. Ifa brain gets lots of rewards for discovering
other people's intentions, it will learn a lot of social cognition.

Language might be the result of three things that are different in humans:

- extended training periods per layer (after the respective layer is done, it is difficult to learn a new set of
phonemes or the first language)

- more layers

- different internal rewards. Perhaps the reward for learning grammatical structure is the same that makes us
like music. Our brains may enjoy learning compositional regular structure, and they enjoy making
themselves understood, and everything else is something the universal cortical learning figures out on its
own.

This is a hypothesis that is shared by a growing number of people these days. In humans, it is reflected for
instance by the fact that races with faster motor development have lower IQ. (In individuals of the same
group, slower development often indicates defects, of course.)

Another support comes from machine learning: we find that the same learning functions can learn visual
and auditory pattern recognition, and even end-to-end-learning. Google has built automatic image
recognition into their current photo app:
http://blogs.wsj.com/digits/2015/07/01/google-mistakenly-tags-black-people-as-gorillas-showing-limits-of-

algorithms/

The state of the art in research can do better than that: it can begin to Imagine things. I.e. when the
experimenter asks the system to dream what a certain object looks like, the system can produce a
somewhat compelling image, which indicates that it is indeed learning visual structure. This stuff is
something nobody could do a few months ago:
http://www.creativeai.net/posts/Mv4WG6rdzAerZF7ch/synthesizing-preferred-inputs-via-deep-generator-
networks

A machine learning program that can learn how to play an Atari game without any human supervision or
hand-crafted engineering (the feat that gave DeepMind 500M from Google) now just takes about 130 lines
of Python code.

These models do not have interesting motivational systems, and a relatively simple architecture. They
currently seem to mimic some of the stuff that goes on in the first few layers of the cortex. They learn object
features, visual styles, lighting and rotation in 3d, and simple action policies. Almost everything else is
missing. But there is a lot of enthusiasm that the field might be on the right track, and that we can learn
motor simulations and intuitive physics soon. (The majority of the people in AI do not work on this,
however. They try to improve the performance for the current benchmarks.)

Noam's criticism of machine translation mostly applies to the Latent Semantic Analysis models that Google

and others have been using for many years. These models map linguistic symbols to concepts, and relate
concepts to each other, but they do not relate the concepts to proper mental representations of what

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026417
