softly and slowly. So at ease with her nude body she even asked me to
massage her swelling breasts, in a non- sexual way. Not knowing any
other way but that way, I was trying to oblige in her request doing the
very best I could to relieve her but couldn’t help but giggle to myself at
the very sight of this. She said she was very happy at the end of the
massage and rolled over to go to sleep, asking me to turn out the light at
the end of it. I closed the door gently as if not to disturb her, and went to
find my other client.

The apartment’s lights had been turned out for the sleeping children and
I found Glen awaiting for me in the lounge room where I had to call out
“Excuse me?” as | couldn’t see him in the dark. There was a throw rug on
the ground that he had already placed out as he began to strip down in
preparation of the massage. Lying frontwards facing me with his exposed
and ever growing manhood, I asked him to roll over to begin the
massage. He complied with a cheeky smile and from his eagerness to
show he was not shy indeed, I already knew where this was going to end
up.
I found it much more strenuous to massage on the floor but I wouldn’t
let that hold me back I wanted to have a career and this being my first
ever clients, I didn’t want them to disapprove. Nearly four hours after I
had gotten there I was still hard at work. Mentally preparing for the end
of the session he let me know when he was ready to begin the other side
to my job and just like Jeffrey did the first time, he requested me to take
off my clothes starting with my shirt. When 1] complied, the requests kept
coming in and before | could change my mind and run away, I was
having intercourse with this man that was so comfortable doing all of this
while his pregnant wife and children slept in the room beside us. When
he had climaxed, we both got up and dressed and he paid mea large tip
even though Jeffrey would be the one to actually pay me for my time
spent there. Just like it had all started, it had also ended so quickly and
now that was that. I had to accept what my duties were and now | could
go back to Jeffrey who would be further pleased in my demonstrations to
keep him happy.

I was called the next morning to come over to Jeffrey’s mansion that
afternoon for lunch, a swim and of course a massage session. Knowing
all too well they’d be expecting the gory details of last nights events with
my new clientele. I came there at lpm as requested and sat down for a
light lunch and a swim. Jeffrey was mostly conducting business from his
offside pool office, but he came to ask me if everything went well the
night before. I told him I did everything asked of me and am quite
confident both my client’s were more than pleased with me. He gave me
a quick grin, before he headed back to the office, throwing a purple grape
down his throat as he walked away.

45

Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFREO04 178

Lying out on one of the pool decks blue and white striped lounge beds
I was waiting for Jeffrey to finish his business so I could give him his
massage. He never took too long with his work, unless there was
something wrong and then we would all have to wear his mood but today
he seemed fine though, when we went up the stairs he told me we would
be leaving for his ranch in Santa Fe’, New Mexico in the morning and I’d
need to be packed and ready tonight. They loved leaving in the spur of
the moment, Jeffrey once said he checks with his pilot Larry on the best
weather before he heads to a different destination. I enjoyed spending
time at his ranch being it was my favorite of all of his residences. He had
a lavish Mediterranean looking castle on top of a hill that over looked his
extensive 7,500 acres of property. It has an indoor pool, gym, and all the
trimmings of extravagance I could only imagine. I had a great time on the
quad bikes, Sarah and I often got scolded for tipping one over going to
fast or trying to go up a steep hill, but we knew those weren’t the things
he cared about, so it wouldn’t matter. My favorite of it all was his little
town with it’s own fire station and truck, stables full of horses, and little
cottages where the housekeepers and ranch hands lived.

On my own time I would take one of the quad bikes down to the
stables and saddle up on one of his beautiful horses and go for a ride in
the open terrain. It was coming up to the end of a very cold winter and it
still had the snow covered mountaintops and brisk air that 1 loved to take
in during my many trail rides. [ have been an experienced horse rider
since my childhood, and could honestly pinpoint some of the best
memories of my life being on the back of a horse. | acclaimed with thrill
in my voice “Great, I’ll get packed as soon as [ get back to my apartment”
he threw in “Pack for a few weeks, as we will also be making a pit stop
to L.A for some business afterwards and then to N.Y.C.” I was used to
these round trips with him, it was great as I was saving loads of cash and
about to buy myself my first car.

Jeffrey, Ghislane, Emmy and J all left the following morning, as
planned. Arriving in only a few hours at his awe-inspiring Santa Fe
Palace was always a delight. Still frisk in the air, my petite frame looked
even smaller in these gigantic overcoats. Nonetheless I was looking
forward to spending time out in the fresh clean air and open land. After a
few days of leisurely spending our time on the ranch, we went to the
Indian markets in Albuquerque for a bit of shopping and sight seeing.
Jeffrey wasn’t the most off road kind of guy, so when we went sight
seeing it was more like museums, boutique shopping, and local art
galleries. Still a splendid trip though. With me picking up a few nifty
collectables to bring back for my family and knowing how much my
mom loves Indian apparel, I thought it would put me back in her good
books for awhile, | hoped at least. There was some lengthy time to put a

46

2 Copyright Protected Material

GIUIV REGO 179.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021167
