recommended for widest reception (pole to pole), with GlobalStar in second place (three continents).
Rent or purchase.

= Pocket-size Solar Panels ( www.solio.com )

Satellite phones and other small electronics are of little use (skipping stones, perhaps’) if their batteries
die. Solio is about the size of two packs of cards and fans out into small solar panels. I was surprised to
find that it charged my cell phone in less than 15 minutes—more than twice as fast as a wall outlet.
Adapters are available for almost anything.

What to Do Once You Get There— Career Experiments and More

» Verge Magazine (see Restricted Reading appendix)

> Meet Up ( www.meetup.com )
Search by city and activity to find people who share similar interests all over the world.

=» Become a Travel Writer ( www.writtenroad.com )

Get paid to travel the world and record your thoughts? This is a dream job for millions. Get the inside
scoop on the travel publishing world from veteran Jen Leo, author of Sand in My Bra and Other
Misadventures: Funny Women Write from the Road. This blog was a Frommer’s Budget Travel Top
Choice and also features great practical articles about low-tech travel and going gadgetless.

» Teach Engrish ( www.eslcafe.com )

Dave’s ESL Café is one of the oldest and most useful resources for teachers, would-be teachers, and
learners of English. Features discussion boards and “teachers wanted” job postings worldwide.

> Turn Your Brain into Play-Doh ( www.jiwire.com )

Travel the world so you can instant message (IM) with your friends in the U.S. This site lists more than
150,000 hotspots where you can feed your information OCD. Be ashamed if this becomes your default
activity. If you’re bored, just remember—it’s your fault. ’ve been there, so I’m not preaching. It happens
to the best of us from time to time, but get more creative.

» Test a New Career Part- or Full-Time: Working Overseas ( www.workingoverseas.com )

This encyclopedia is an exhaustive menu of options for the globally minded, compiled and updated by

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013977
