KLC OpCo has leveraged its scale and operational expertise to roll out a proprietary curriculum and to
provide enhanced corporate level services

—- Curriculum has been developed, rolled out and refined over many years and provides a significant
competitive advantage in an industry where smail independent players do not have the resources
to develop comparable programs.

— Operational leverage allows for enhanced marketing, back-office, legal and compliance functions,
keeping KLC OpCo at the forefront of education standards.

Controls that meet or exceed requirements established by licensing authorities, state and federal
government and accrediting bodies

— Controls include rigorous and stringent hiring procedures and uniform rules for conduct.

-~» 43% of KLC OpCo's centers, over four times the indusiry average of 10%, are accredited by the
National Association for the Education of Young Children (referred fo herein as NAEYC), the
nation's leading accreditation body. Management believes that ali the Company’s centers’
operations and policies meet or are substantially compliant with NAEYC accreditation
requirements.

B# A compelling business model at 412

As the state of education across the U.S. is generating increasing concerns, k12 provides a compelling
value proposition

-- Children continue to perform poorly on assessment tests geared to measure reading, writing and
math skills. The passing of legislation such as the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 which,
among other things, provides for increased funding for education and implementation of
achievement level standards, demonstrates the commitment of government to address the issue.

Technology and content platform easily leverageable to provide results-driven curriculum and service

—-- With $70 million invested in the development of the platform for kindergarten to 9th grade classes,
extension of the offering into new states and schools is expected te be achieved at relatively low
costs.

— k12 benefits from stable demand for its curriculum and services which is reflected by current
reenrollment rates of 65% to 70%.

-. Many of the direct costs are semi-fixed in nature (e.g., school administration) creating strong
economies of scale as this business continues to grow.

H Valuable reai estate portfolio of centers providing solid asset base

845 owned centers recently appraised at approximately $1.25 billion”

~~ New organization separating management of real estate assets allows KLC OpCo education teams
to focus on the core education business.

~- Long term partnership with Greenstreet Real Estate Partners ensuring state-of-the-art
management of the real estate assets by a leader in this field.

* Actual appraisal was for 713 out of 845 centers and the appraised value was $1.1 billion. The $1.25 billion is achieved by taking the independent
appraisal valuation methodology and extrapolaiing it fo the remaining 132 centers.

24

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024457
