intent on surrounding himself in the White House with his family. The Trumps, all of them
—except for his wife, who, mystifyingly, was staying in New York—were moving in, all
of them set to assume responsibilities similar to their status in the Trump Organization,
without anyone apparently counseling against it.

Finally, it was the right-wing diva and Trump supporter Ann Coulter who took the
president-elect aside and said, “Nobody is apparently telling you this. But you can’t. You
just can’t hire your children.”

Trump continued to insist that he had every right to his family’s help, while at the same
time asking for understanding. This is family, he said—“It’s a /eettle, leettle tricky.” His
staffers understood not only the inherent conflicts and difficult legal issues in having
Trump’s son-in-law run the White House, but that it would become, even more than it
already was, family first for Trump. After a great deal of pressure, he at least agreed not to
make his son-in-law the chief of staff—not officially, anyway.

OOK Ok

If not Barrack or Kushner, then, Trump thought the job should probably go to New Jersey
governor Chris Christie, who, with Rudy Giuliani, comprised the sum total of his circle of
friends with actual political experience.

Christie, like most Trump allies, fell in and out of favor. In the final weeks of the
campaign, Trump contemptuously measured Christie’s increasing distance from his losing
enterprise, and then, with victory, his eagerness to get back in.

Trump and Christie went back to Trump’s days trying—and failing—to become an
Atlantic City gaming mogul. 7he Atlantic City gaming mogul. (Trump had long been
competitive with and in awe of the Las Vegas gaming mogul Steve Wynn, whom Trump
would name finance chairman of the RNC.) Trump had backed Christie as he rose through
New Jersey politics. He admired Christie’s straight-talk style, and for a while, as Christie
anticipated his own presidential run in 2012 and 2013—and as Trump was looking for a
next chapter for himself with the fading of The Apprentice, his reality TV franchise—
Trump even wondered whether he might be a vice presidential possibility for Christie.

Early in the campaign, Trump said he wouldn’t have run against Christie but for the
Bridgegate scandal (which erupted when Christie’s associates closed traffic lanes on the
George Washington Bridge to undermine the mayor of a nearby town who was a Christie
opponent, and which Trump privately justified as “just New Jersey hardball”). When
Christie dropped out of the race in February 2016 and signed on with the Trump
campaign, he endured a torrent of ridicule for supporting his friend, whom he believed had
promised him a clear track to the VP slot.

It had personally pained Trump not to be able to give it to him. But if the Republican
establishment had not wanted Trump, they had not wanted Christie almost as much. So
Christie got the job of leading the transition and the implicit promise of a central job—

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019906
