e The company discovered that its employees had
received competitor bid information from a third
party with connections to the foreign government.

e The company began an internal investigation,
withdrew its contract bid, terminated the employees
involved, severed ties to the third-party agent, and
voluntarily disclosed the conduct to DOJ’s Antitrust
Division, which also declined prosecution.

e During the internal investigation, the company
uncovered various FCPA red flags, including prior
concerns about the third-party agent, all of which
the company voluntarily disclosed to DOJ and SEC.

e Thecompany immediately took substantial steps to

improve its compliance program.

Example 2: Public Company Declination

DOJ and SEC declined to take enforcement action
against a public U.S. company. Factors taken into consider-
ation included:

e With knowledge of employees of the company’s
subsidiary, a retained construction company
paid relatively small bribes, which were wrongly
approved by the company’s local law firm, to for-
eign building code inspectors.

e When the company’s compliance department
learned of the bribes, it immediately ended the
conduct, terminated its relationship with the con-
struction company and law firm, and terminated or
disciplined the employees involved.

e The company completed a thorough internal inves-
tigation and voluntarily disclosed to DOJ and SEC.

e The company reorganized its compliance depart-
ment, appointed a new compliance officer dedi-
cated to anti-corruption, improved the training
and compliance program, and undertook a
review of all of the company’s international third-

party relationships.

Example 3: Public Company Declination
DOJ and SEC declined to take enforcement action

against a USS. publicly held industrial services company for

Resolutions

bribes paid by a small foreign subsidiary. Factors taken into
consideration included:

e The company self-reported the conduct to DOJ
and SEC.

e The total amount of the improper payments was
relatively small, and the activity appeared to be
an isolated incident by a single employee at the
subsidiary.

e The profits potentially obtained from the improper
payments were very small.

e The payments were detected by the company’s
existing internal controls. The company’s audit
committee conducted a thorough independent
internal investigation. The results of the investiga-
tion were provided to the government.

e The company cooperated fully with investigations
by DOJ and SEC.

e The company implemented significant remedial

actions and enhanced its internal control structure.

Example 4: Public Company Declination

DOJ and SEC declined to take enforcement action
against a U.S. publicly held oil-and-gas services company
for small bribes paid by a foreign subsidiary’s customs agent.
Factors taken into consideration included:

e The company’s internal controls timely detected a
potential bribe before a payment was made.

e When company management learned of the
potential bribe, management immediately reported
the issue to the company’s General Counsel and
Audit Committee and prevented the payment from
occurring.

e Within weeks of learning of the attempted bribe,
the company provided in-person FCPA training

to employees of the subsidiary and undertook

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022580
