OOK Ok

Murdoch was hardly the only billionaire who had been dismissive of Trump. In the years
before the election, Carl Icahn, whose friendship Trump often cited, and who Trump had
suggested he’d appoint to high office, openly ridiculed his fellow billionaire (whom he
said was not remotely a billionaire).

Few people who knew Trump had illusions about him. That was almost his appeal: he
was what he was. Twinkle in his eye, larceny in his soul.

But now he was the president-elect. And that, in a reality jujitsu, changed everything.
So say whatever you want about him, he had done this. Pulled the sword from the stone.
That meant something. Everything.

The billionaires had to rethink. So did everyone in the Trump orbit. The campaign
staff, now suddenly in a position to snag West Wing jobs—career- and history-making
jobs—had to see this odd, difficult, even ridiculous, and, on the face of it, ill-equipped
person in a new light. He had been elected president. So he was, as Kellyanne Conway
liked to point out, by definition, presidential.

Still, nobody had yet seen him be presidential—that is, make a public bow to political
ritual and propriety. Or even to exercise some modest self-control.

Others were now recruited and, despite their obvious impressions of the man, agreed to
sign on. Jim Mattis, a retired four-star general, one of the most respected commanders in
the U.S. armed forces; Rex Tillerson, CEO of ExxonMobil; Scott Pruitt and Betsy De Vos,
Jeb Bush loyalists—all of them were now focused on the singular fact that while he might
be a peculiar figure, even an absurd-seeming one, he had been elected president.

We can make this work, is what everybody in the Trump orbit was suddenly saying. Or,
at the very least, this could possibly work.

In fact, up close, Trump was not the bombastic and pugilistic man who had stirred
rabid crowds on the campaign trail. He was neither angry nor combative. He may have
been the most threatening and frightening and menacing presidential candidate in modern
history, but in person he could seem almost soothing. His extreme self-satisfaction rubbed
off. Life was sunny. Trump was an optimist—at least about himself. He was charming and
full of flattery; he focused on you. He was funny—self-deprecating even. And incredibly
energetic—Let’s do it whatever it is, Jets do it. He wasn’t a tough guy. He was “a big
warm-hearted monkey,” said Bannon, with rather faint praise.

PayPal cofounder and Facebook board member Peter Thiel—really the only significant
Silicon Valley voice to support Trump—was warned by another billionaire and longtime
Trump friend that Trump would, in an explosion of flattery, offer Thiel his undying
friendship. Everybody says you’re great, you and I are going to have an amazing working
relationship, anything you want, call me and we'll get it done! Thiel was advised not to

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019899
