4.2.12
WC: 191694

Chapter 8: Expressions that incite violence and disrupt speakers

Pornography consumed in private does not require a balancing of rights—as explained in Chapter
6—because no one should have the right to tell an adult what to read, view or hear in his home or
in an enclosed area, like a theater, where no one is forced to go. Disclosure by the media of
national security secrets requires an exquisite, if not impossible, balancing of rights and interests,
as explained in Chapter 7. Expressions that incite violence or disrupt speakers—the subject of
this chapter—also require a difficult balance between the rights of the speaker, and the rights of
the potential victims of the incited violence and those of the disrupted speaker.

There are two basic types of expression that incite. The first is reacttve—that is, the speaker so
deeply upsets or offends the person (or persons) to whom he is speaking that he reacts to the
speech by attacking the speaker. This comes under the legal rubric of “fighting words”—words
that cause the listener to fight back. The second is pro-active—that is, the speaker urges his
listener (or listeners) to commit violence and the listener complies by committing violence against
a third person (or persons or institutions). This comes under the legal rubric of “clear and present
danger.”

Early in my career I was involved in both of those types of cases.

In the famous neo-Nazi march through Skokie, Illinois, the Nazi thugs deliberately decided to
march—with anti-Semitic chants, signs and uniforms—through a Jewish community with a large
number of Holocaust survivors. Their goal was to provoke a negative reaction from those they
were trying to offend. The city banned the march on the ground that it would provoke a violent
reaction from some survivors and others. The Nazis sued. To the surprise of many, and to the
dismay of my mother, I urged the ACLU, on whose board I sat, to defend the right of the Nazis
to march through Skokie and I urged the Jews to ignore them, in order not to give the Nazis the
publicity they craved. I don’t believe in the “fighting words” exception to the First Amendment.
I believe that the answer to deeply offensive speech is not violence, and that the law should not
legitimate or justify violence by recognizing this exception. Experience demonstrates that when
victims respond to such offensive provocations by violence or censorship, the provocateurs win in
the court of public opinion. That’s what happened in Skokie.

A small rag-tag band of Nazi thugs became the focus of worldwide attention as a result of being
censored by Skokie. They were interviewed by the media, their numbers and influence grew and
they received a degree of legitimacy they had never previously had.

I fully understood why the Holocaust survivors would be deeply offended, even possibly
traumatized, by being forced to re-experience the spectacle of brown shirted Nazi wearing
Swastikas invading their neighborhood, but I worried about the implications of a judicial decision
authorizing censorship. It could be used to justify the censorship of a march by the likes of
Martin Luther King through a segregated community in the south; whose residents would be
deeply offended by an integrated group marching through their community. It’s no answer to
point out that King was good or right and the Nazis are bad and wrong, because the First
Amendment must always be content-neutral and not prefer good and right speech over bad and
wrong speech. That’s for the public to decide only after being presented with both sides without

[32

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017219
