The post about safewords caught the attention of Thomas MacAulay Millar, a feminist
blogger and S&Mer who is older and more established in the blogosphere than I.
Thomas asked if he could annotate the article, then post it on the blog where he usually
writes -- the blog for the excellent sex-positive anti-rape anthology Yes Means Yes. Of
course I agreed. The final product looks something like a conversation between me and
Thomas, although I wrote the post before he added his input.

KOK ok

The Annotated Safeword
Thomas MacAulay Millar:

Clarisse Thorn's post about safewords is so good I'm just going to repost the whole thing
and annotate it.

Clarisse Thorn:

Everyone knows about BDSM safewords... or at least, everyone thinks they know about
safewords. But one of the initial moments that really impressed me about my current
boyfriend was when I asked him, many moons ago, if he knew what a safeword is. He
paused, then answered, I think I'm familiar with the idea, but I probably don't know
much more than a stereotype, so I'd like to hear you define it. Humility and open-minded
curiosity are so incredibly hot!

Righto. Hot boyfriend aside, I'm here to explain safewords and check-ins, and how those
concepts can exemplify excellent sexual communication for everyone -- not just S&Mers
-- ina world that doesn't do a good job teaching anyone how to communicate sexually.

When two (or more) people have a BDSM encounter together, generally they set a
safeword -- a word that anyone can say at any time to stop the action. (Sometimes people
don't use safewords. This is their choice and I totally respect it. I would not recommend
going without safewords for anyone who doesn't know their partner extremely well, and
I would be seriously sketched out by anyone who pressured a partner to go without
safewords.)

Thomas MacAulay Millar:

A word on origin: safewords are only strictly necessary in one circumstance -- where the
participants want words like no and stop not to have their ordinary meaning. One can
do BDSM for a lifetime without a safeword, if words have their ordinary meanings. As
former porn star and kinkster Ona Zee once put it (I'm quoting an interview from memory
here), our safeword is 'that hurts. Folks can even do heavy play depending on how they
react to things, without a safeword, simply saying stop or too much” or fuck, I can't
handle any more of that! when the play gets too intense. Any BDSMer who would tell
you URDOINITRONG if you use ordinary words to communicate in scene is not
someone you need to listen to.

Safewords are essential for roleplay where no, please don't, I'll do anything! should not
stop the action. It's also essential for any bottom who will involuntarily shout No! Stop!
while actually wanting more. Other than that, it's an optional tool -- a very, very useful

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018466
