Page 1

@ LexisNexis’

9 of 13 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2009 Sun-Sentinel Company
All Rights Reserved
Sun-Sentinel (Fort Lauderdale, Florida)

June 15, 2009 Monday
Palm Beach Edition

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: HEARING SET TO CONSIDER SECRECY OF PLEA BARGAIN
BYLINE: Susan Spencer-Wendell The Palm Beach Post

BODY:

A Palm Beach Circuit Court judge will not immediately unseal a deal that wealthy Palm Beach money manager
Jeffrey Epstein made with federal prosecutors to avoid charges.

Circuit Judge Jeff Colbath acknowledged, though, at a hearing last week that Epstein's deal was not sealed in ac-
cordance with state and local court rules.

T don't see where any of the procedures were ever followed to begin with, Colbath said.
Colbath also set a full hearing on the matter for June 25.

Attorneys for young women now suing Epstein, together with The Palm Beach Post, are asking Colbath to unseal
the deal that Epstein made with federal prosecutors.

It's a secret agreement, a secret sweetheart agreement, said former Circuit Judge Bill Berger, who represents
some of the women. Everybody was in on this deal except the victims and the public. The public should be outraged it
has gone as far as it has.

Brad Edwards, a second attorney representing the women, has seen the sealed deal after a federal judge allowed
him and his clients to view it, but would not discuss its contents.

Edwards would say only that the women were outraged that it had been negotiated behind their backs.
A reporter asked Edwards whether he thought Epstein received special treatment by federal prosecutors.
Are you kidding? It's transparent. Certainly, no one else gets treated like that, Edwards said.

Epstein, 56, a reported money manager of billionaires, is serving an 18-month sentence in the Palm Beach County
Stockade after pleading guilty almost a year ago in state court to felony solicitation of prostitution and procuring teen-
agers for prostitution. Epstein is allowed out, though, each day from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m., a Sheriff's Office spokesman
said.

Displeased with the way the State Attorney's Office handled the case, Palm Beach police forwarded information to
the FBI.

INFORMATIONAL BOX:

Young women have sued.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013426
