predictable. You could give two patients the same disease and they had completely different
outcomes. So at least in human beings, we didn’t respond predictably. As does always occur,
the bell-shaped curve, which there is to everything now. So, I started getting interested in
mind-body medicine, and I would say I probably coined the phrase. In 1985 I wrote a book
which nobody would accept, no publisher would accept, so I published it on my own,

called Creating Health: Exploring the Mind-Body Connection. The book then was picked up
by Houghton Mifflin and became at national bestseller. And I wrote another book

called Quantum Healingwhich was vilified by the medical establishment because I was
basically proposing, long before anybody was talking about entanglement, I was talking
about the entanglement of mind, body, neuropeptides, molecules of emotion, etc., etc., from
my own experience. But the books did very well with the lay public. The New England
Journaldid a good review of Quantum Healing in 1988, but basically I’m still ridiculed for
it by the regular medical establishment.

Matt: Were you talking about quantum entanglement—

Deepak: I wasn’t using the word quantum entanglement. I was talking about the fact that
thoughts and molecules are inseparable, basically, and that between a thought and a
molecule there’s a gap, and that gap is consciousness. It’s now 30 years since the book, and
Rudy was my co-author. He’s a neuroscientist at Harvard and the head of neuroscience at
Mass General. He wrote the foreword to the reissue of Quantum Healing, which I'll send
you, but it’s almost now quaint with all that we know of now. But I used that word which
annoyed a lot of people, including Richard Dawkins, who ridiculed me, and I said, Listen,
I’m using it as a metaphor.

All science, I was saying, was a metaphor anyway, but it was then that I also got very
interested in meditation. And then I went to India, and I spend about 10 years in India
talking to these teachers, basically, of consciousness, where consciousness is fundamental
reality, it is beyond thought or experience, and the word they use is pure consciousness. So I
went through an experience with a teacher of meditation who basically asked me questions
like I can ask you right now. What is this? [Matt: It’s a glass.] And what’s this? [Matt:
Flower.] And what’s this? [Matt: “A candle.”] What’s this?” [Matt: “A Sharpie.”’] “What’s
this?” [Matt: “A hand. Did I get them all right?”’] So far. I said the same thing. But I was
having a conversation with somebody, and he said to me, Those are human

constructs. And I was trying to tell this person, who was a meditation teacher, I was telling
him about the molecules of emotion. Serotonin. He said they’re not real.

So that got me thinking, okay, and I seriously went into wanting to experience pure
consciousness, which they all talk about, as transcendence, beyond subject-object split. So,
this person that I had this conversation with, he said, If you were a baby and you had no
language, not exposed to any language, this would not be a hand. This would be a shape, a
form, a color, maybe a smell, a texture, a sensation, as an activity of consciousness. But then

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029513
