2D

oppressive, militarized or, perhaps worse, anarchic environment.
Indeed, as Berlin intimates, what follows dictatorial rule will not
inevitably further the cause of individual liberty and well-being.
Absent relentless, large-scale human-rights violations, soft landings
for nondemocratic regimes are always preferable to hard ones, even if
the process takes some time. A moral argument can be made that
monsters like Muammar el-Qaddafi in Libya and Kim Jong-il in
North Korea should be overthrown any way they can, as fast as we
can, regardless of the risk of short-term chaos. But that reasoning
quickly loses its appeal when one is dealing with dictators who are
less noxious. And even when they are not less noxious, as in the case
of Iraq’s Saddam Hussein, the moral argument for their removal is
still fraught with difficulty since the worse the autocrat, the worse the
chaos left in his wake. That is because a bad dictator eviscerates
intermediary institutions between the regime at the top and the
extended family or tribe at the bottom—professional associations,
community organizations, political groups and so on—the very stuff
of civil society. The good dictator, by fostering economic growth,
among other things, makes society more complex, leading to more
civic groupings and to political divisions based on economic interest
that are by definition more benign than tribal, ethnic or sectarian
divides. A good dictator can be defined as one who makes his own
removal less rife with risk. While the logical conclusion of Mill’s
essay 1s to deny the moral right of dictatorship, his admission of the
need for obedience to an Akbar or a Charlemagne at primitive levels
of social development leaves one facing the larger question: Is
transition from autocracy to democracy always virtuous? For there is
a vast difference between the rule of even a wise and enlightened
individual like the late-sixteenth-century Mogul Akbar the Great and
a society so free that coercion of the individual by the state only ever
occurs to prevent the harm of others. It is such a great disparity that

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_032195
