Every businessman knows this; that is why the loss leader” or the giveaway is such a
powerful marketing tool. Obama's America is one in which free stuff is given away: the adults
among the 47,000,000 on food stamps clearly recognized for whom they should vote, and so
they did, by the tens of millions; those who - courtesy of Obama - receive two full years of
unemployment benefits (which, of course, both disincentivizes looking for work and also
motivates people to work ot the books while collecting their windfall) surely know for whom
to vote. The lure of free stuff is irresistik

The defining moment of the whole campaign was the revelation of the secretly-recorded video
in which Romney acknowledged the difficulty of winning an election in which 47% of the
people start off against him because they pay no taxes and just receive money - free stuff -
from the government.

half of the population has n¢ ie game - they
don't care about high t taxes, promoting b business, or creating
jobs, nor do they care that the money for their free stuff is
being borrowed from their children and from the Chinese.

They just want the free stuff that comes their way at someone
else's expense. In the end, that 47% leaves very little margin
for error for any Republican, and does not bode well for the
future.

odds. - People do vote their pocketbooks. Ine essence, the ne people vote on Congress who will
not raise their taxes, and for a President who will give them free stuff, never mind who has to
pay for it.

That en genders the second reason why Romney lost: the inescapable conclusion that the
electorate is ignorant and uninformed. Indeed, it does not pay to be an informed voter,
because most other voters - the clear majority — are unintelligent and easily swayed by
emotion and raw populism. That is the indelicate way of saying that too many people vote
with their hearts and not their heads. That is why Obama did not have to produce a second
term agenda, or even defend his first-term record. He needed only to portray Mitt Romney as
a rapacious capitalist who throws elderly women over a cliff, when he is not just snatching
away their cancer medication, while starving the poor and cutting taxes for the rich.

During his 1956 presidential campaign, a woman called out to Adlai Stevenson: Senator, you
have the vote of every thinking person! Stevenson called back: That's not enough, madam,
we need a majority!

Truer words were never spoken.

Obama could get away with saying that Romney wants the rich to play by a different set of
rules - without ever defining what those different rules were; with saying that the rich

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031701
