138 Teaching Minds
In this way:

“T personally believe, that U.S. Americans, are unable to do so,
because uh, some, people out there, in our nation don’t have
maps, and uh... I believe that our education like such as in
South Africa, and the Iraq, everywhere like such as... and, I
believe they should uh, our education over here, in the U.S.
should help the U.S. or should help South Africa, and should
help the Iraq and Asian countries so we will be able to build up
our future, for us.”

Millions of Americans upon hearing this interview, which was re-
played on every television outlet, thought this response was both very
funny and an indication of how stupid Miss South Carolina was. Most
adults feel that they know what intelligence looks like and that they
know what stupidity looks like. Everyone agreed about the absurdity
of this response. It was, after all, incoherent, and this was obvious to
anybody.

Miss South Carolina was given another chance to answer the
question on the Today Show on NBC, some days later. Here is a
description of what happened from the MSNBC website:

She explained Tuesday that she was so overwhelmed by the
moment she barely heard any of the question.

“Everything did come at me at once,” she said. “And I made
a mistake—everybody makes a mistake—I’m human. Right when
the question was asked of me, I was in shock... I would love to
re-answer that question.”

Curty [of the Today show] obliged, reading the entire
question as it had been asked during the pageant. This time,
Upton [Miss South Carolina] was ready.

“Personally, my friends and I, we know exactly where the
United States is on a map,” she said. “I don’t know anyone else
who doesn’t. If the statistics are correct, I believe there should
be more emphasis on geography in our education so people will
learn how to read maps better.”

She came back later in the show to deliver a flawless
explanation of lunar eclipses.

Held up on the Internet as the quintessential dumb blonde,
Upton was an honor student in high school.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023884
