Contractor | 35

the Ars Technica site against the complicity of private corporations,
such as Dell, that assisted the NSA. In his online posts in 2010,
Snowden expressed loathing for the assistance that corporate Amer-
ica was providing the intelligence community. “It really concerns
me how little this sort of corporate behavior bothers those outside of
technology circles,” he wrote under his TrueHooHa alias. He said he
feared that America was already on “a slippery slope,” and he sug-
gested, perhaps adumbrating his own later actions, that this corpo-
rate assistance to U.S. intelligence “was entirely within our control
to stop.”

What the “computer crusader” expressed in these angry Internet
postings was an almost obsessive concern over individuals’ freely
submitting to government authority. “Society really seems to have
developed an unquestioning obedience towards spooky types,” he
wrote on Ars Technica without mentioning that he himself worked
for a corporation that assisted spy agencies. He asked rhetorically
on this public forum whether the sinister slide toward a surveil-
lance state “sneaked in undetected because of pervasive government

© secrecy.” ®

The outright contempt he expressed toward this “government
secrecy” did not prevent him from seeking even more secret work
at Dell for the intelligence services. In February 2011, after his CIA
security clearance ran out, he applied to renew it. The new clearance
now required a new background check and filling out the govern-
ment’s 127-page Standard Form 86.

Since 1996, background investigations for the NSA, like much of
the computer work at the NSA, had been outsourced to a private
company. It had proceeded from the effort of the Clinton adminis-
tration to cut the size of government by privatizing tasks that could
be more efficiently done by for-profit companies. U.S. Investiga-
tions Services, or USIS, as it is now called, which won the contract
for background checks, was initially owned by the private equity
fund Carlyle Group, which later sold it to another financial group,
Providence Equity Partners. For the private equity and hedge funds,
profits were the measure of success. To increase its profits from the
contract with the NSA, USIS had to move more quickly in conclud-
ing background checks because it did not get paid more for extensive

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 35 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019523
