Federal Register/Vol. 76, No. 168/Tuesday, August 30, 2011/Rules and Regulations

54037

Board rejects both contentions because,
as explained in the NPRM, the Board
does not have the authority to impose
fines. 75 FR 80414, citing Republic Steel
Corp. v. NLRB, 311 U.S. 7, 10-12 (1940).
Another comment argues that the Board
should not provide remedies for failing
to post the notice because such
remedies are not provided under other
statutes. In fact, both remedies and
sanctions are imposed under some
statutes; see, e.g., 29 CFR 1601.30 (fine
of $110 per offense for failing to post
notice under Title VII); 29 CFR
825.300(a)(1) (same sanction for failing
to post notice under FMLA); cases cited
above for tolling of limitation periods
for failing to post notices under several
statutes.

One comment contends that the
proposed remedies were proposed
solely as means of deterring failures to
post the notices, and are therefore
inappropriate; several other comments
assert that the proposed remedies are
punitive.169 Although the Board
disagrees, there is language in the
NPRM that may have inadvertently
suggested that the enforcement
mechanisms were proposed solely for
deterrent purposes. The Board wishes to
correct any such misimpression. As
stated above, in explaining why it was
proposing those mechanisms, the Board
stated in its NPRM that it was “mindful
of the need to identify effective
incentives for compliance.” 75 FR
80413. Later, referring to tolling the
10(b) period and considering a willful
failure to post the notice as evidence of
unlawful motive, the Board said that it
“proposes the following options
intended to induce compliance with the
notice-posting requirement.” Id. at
80414. However, the Board made those
statements while explaining why it had
determined not to rely entirely on
employers’ voluntary compliance with
the rule. (The Board had had little
success in persuading employers to
voluntarily post notices of employee
rights during the critical period leading
up to a representation election.) Id. By
noting that the proposed enforcement
scheme would have some deterrent
effect in that context, the Board did not
mean to imply that it was proposing
those measures solely for deterrence
purposes. For the reasons discussed at
length above, the Board has found that
finding a failure to post the notices to
violate Section 8(a)(1) and, in
appropriate circumstances, to warrant
tolling the 10(b) period and/or inferring
unlawful motive in an unfair labor
practice case are legitimate remedial

169 See, e.g., comments of FMI, ALFA, AHCA.

measures supported by extensive Board
and court precedent.

In addition, in a number of places the
NPRM used the term “sanctions” in a
very loose sense to refer to aspects of the
proposed enforcement scheme,
inadvertently suggesting that this
scheme was punitive. The term
“sanctions” was an inapt choice of
descriptor for the enforcement scheme:
the classic 8(a)(1) remedial order has
long been upheld as nonpunitive;
equitable tolling is concerned with
fairness to employees, not punishment
of misconduct, and is fully consistent
with current Board doctrine; and the
animus provision is little more than the
common-sense extension of well-
established evidentiary principles that
apply to many other NLRA violations,
and is also not designed to punish
employers. That they may also furnish
incentives for employers to comply with
the notice-posting rule does not detract
from their legitimacy; if it were
otherwise, the Board could never
impose any remedy for violations of the
NLRA if the remedy had a deterrent
effect. In any event, the Board hereby
disavows any suggestion from
statements in the NPRM that the
remedial measures were proposed solely
as penalties.

Contrary to the tenor of numerous
comments opposing this rule,17° the
Board is not issuing the rule in order to
entrap unwary employers and make
operations more difficult for them
because of inadvertent or technical
violations. It is doing so in order that
employees may come to understand
their NLRA rights through exposure to
notices posted in their workplaces
explaining those rights. Accordingly,
the important thing is that the notices be
posted. As explained above, an
employer that fails to post the notice
because it is unaware of the rule, but
promptly posts the notice when the rule
is brought to its attention, will nearly
always avoid any further proceedings.
Similarly, an employer that posts the
notice but fails initially to comply with
one of the technical posting
requirements will almost always avoid
further problems by correcting the error
when it is called to the employer's
attention. And if an employer is unsure
of what the rule requires in a particular
setting, it can seek and receive guidance
from the Board.

The Service Employees International
Union and the United Food and
Commercial Workers propose that, in

170 For example, “This seems to be yet another
trap for the employers. Another avenue to subject
them to law suits and interrogations, and
uneconomic activities and ungodly expenditures.”

addition to the proposed enforcement
scheme, the rule state that an
employer’s knowing failure to post the
notice of employee rights during the
critical period before a representation
election shall be grounds for setting the
election aside on the filing of proper
objections. The Board finds that this is
unnecessary, because the Board’s notice
of election, which must be posted by an
employer three working days before an
election takes place, contains a
summary of employee NLRA rights and
a list of several kinds of unfair labor
practices, and failure to post that notice
already constitutes grounds for setting
an election aside.171 In any event,
during a union organizing campaign, the
union can instruct members of its in-
plant organizing committee to verify
whether the notice required under this
tule has been posted; if it has not, the
union can so inform the employer and,
if need be, the Board’s regional office.

Subpart C—Ancillary Matters

Several technical issues unrelated to
those discussed in the two previous
subparts are set out in this subpart.

IV. Dissenting View of Member Brian E.
Hayes

“Agencies may play the sorcerer’s
apprentice but not the sorcerer
himself.” 172

Today, my colleagues conjure up a
new unfair labor practice based on a
new statutory obligation. They impose
on as many as six million private
employers the obligation to post a notice
of employee rights and selected
illustrative unfair labor practices. The
obligation to post is deemed enforceable
through Section 8(a)(1)’s proscription of
interference with employees’ Section 7
rights, and the failure to post is further
penalized by equitable tolling of Section
10(b)’s limitations period and the
possible inference of discriminatory
motivation for adverse employment
actions taken in the absence of posting.
While the need for a more informed
constituency might be a desirable goal,
it is attainable only with Congressional
imprimatur. The Board’s rulemaking
authority, broad as it is, does not
encompass the authority to promulgate
a rule of this kind. Even if it did, the
action taken here is arbitrary and
capricious, and therefore invalid,
because it is not based on substantial
evidence and it lacks a reasoned
analysis.

171 See Section 103.20 of the Board’s Rules and
Regulations.

172 Alexander v. Sandoval, 532 U.S. 275, 291
(2001).

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022308
