THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA

PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)

QUINTESSENTIALLY™

http://www.quintessentially.com/insider/tag/london-art-galler

Posts Tagged ‘london art gallery’

The Inferno in the Frieze
Thursday, October 14th, 2010

As Frieze mania draws to a close, the capital is playing host to a number of enthralling and original surrounding
exhibitions and events this weekend.

The labyrinth of tunnels beneath Waterloo Station have been taken over by the Lazarides Gallery, who have
installed a mind blowing exhibition called ‘Hell’s Half Acre’. The space has been transformed into a large-scale
evocation of Dante’s literary masterpiece /nferno in which a group of young, cutting-edge artists have produced a
multi-sensory interpretation of hell, a strange consort of voodoo dolls, taxidermy, suspended bodies and barking
staffies. For something a little lighter, seek out Conor Harrington’s fleet of suspended model ships and their
shadows, as well a Jonathan Yeo nude in 3D. Until 17th October.

Catch the ‘Anticipation Show’ in Selfridges’ Ultra-lounge. It has fast become a celebrated, annual showcase of the
hottest artists of the moment, and is curated by Kay Saatchi and Catriona Warren. Photographers Noemie Goudal
and Robin Friend make stunning contributions with their antithetical takes on the natural landscape. And painter
Robert Dowling is no doubt a star in the making material with his clean, monochromatic wall pieces. With
arresting video installations and jaw dropping sculptural work from Blue Curry on show too, get yourself down
there for a glimpse of the future. Until 10th November.

\ oy
ior 9

ys 4!

For a star studded affair with big names and big pieces, check out ‘The House of the Nobleman’. A special
exhibition curated by ‘All Visual Arts’ Wolfe von Lenkiewicz and Victoria Golembiovskaya, you'll see heralded
gems from the likes of Edouard Manet and Picasso jostle alongside iconic Yves Klein and Ron Arad design pieces.
The makers and shakers of Modern and Contemporary art await your perusal. Rarely will see you such a
heavyweight list of artists all showing under one roof. Until 20th October at Boswall House, 2 Cornwall Terrace,
Regent’s Park, NW1. By appointment only.

www.cornwallterrace.co.uk/boswallhouse.

24

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028304
