4.2.12
WC: 191694

court’s most liberal member at the time, and a man who had grown up in Washington State,
wanted to decide the issue. He wrote a dissenting opinion that represented the conventional
liberal view with which I, and many in my generation, had been brought up. He argued that the
equal protection clause does not:

prohibit law schools from evaluating an applicant's prior achievements in light of the
barriers that he had to overcome. A black applicant who pulled himself out of the ghetto
into a junior college may thereby demonstrate a level of motivation, perseverance, and
ability that would lead a fairminded admissions committee to conclude that he shows more
promise for law study than the son of a rich alumnus who achieved better grades at
Harvard. That applicant would be offered admission not because he is black, but because
as an individual he has shown he has the potential, while the Harvard man may have taken
less advantage of the vastly superior opportunities offered him. Because of the weight of
the prior handicaps, that black applicant may not realize his full potential in the first year
of law school, or even in the full three years, but in the long pull of a legal career his
achievements may far outstrip those of his classmates whose earlier records appeared
superior by conventional criteria.

Such a policy would not be limited to blacks, or Chicanos or Filipinos, or American
Indians, although undoubtedly groups such as these may in practice be the principal
beneficiaries of it. But a poor Appalachian white, or a second generation Chinese in San
Francisco, or some other American whose lineage is so diverse as to defy ethnic labels,
may demonstrate similar potential and thus be accorded favorable consideration by the
Committee.

Justice Douglas was, in fact, describing his own background in Washington State. His
autobiography was informing his constitutional ideology, as is often the case. He then went on to
distinguish the approach he described from the one employed by the University of Washington
law school:

The difference between such a policy and the one presented by this case is that the
Committee would be making decisions on the basis of individual attributes, rather than
according a preference solely on the basis of race.

He concluded therefore that since the “clear and central purpose” of the equal protection clause
was to “eliminate all official sources of racial discrimination in the states,” it follows that each
applicant must be evaluated in “a racially neutral way:”
There is no superior person by constitutional standards. A DeFunis who is white is entitled
to no advantage by reason of that fact; nor is he subject to any disability, no matter what
his race or color. Whatever his race, he had a constitutional right to have his application

considered on its individual merits in a racially neutral manner.

Douglas thus rejected the schools efforts to achieve “representation” of minorities:

292

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017379
