Looking out at the tapestry of age-limited situations reveals a rather eclectic pastiche. In many of
these cases, the cut-off age seems both arbitrary and inappropriate given the statistics. Consider the legal
driving age. Is it the case that 16 year olds are responsible drivers? 16 years olds have higher crash rates
than any other age group in the United States, are more likely to die in a car crash than the average of all
other age groups, and car crashes are the leading cause of death among 16 year olds. North Dakotans
believe that 14 year olds can drive a car. They may have fewer drivers on the road, but that doesn’t mean
that a 14 year old won’t hit them or drive off the road after irresponsibly drinking. Why not keep all
youths off the road until 21 when the statistics on fatal car crashes drop? Or why not follow the lead of
car rental agencies and wait for the 25 birthday?

There are at least two common answers to the driving age problem, both utilitarian: in farming
communities, and other environments where children work with their parents, it is essential to have
children driving as soon as possible; and throughout the country, many parents look forward to the day
when their children can drive, thereby alleviating the need for their private chauffeur service. There is no
question that these are benefits. But if the cost is death to the child and others, the economics just don’t
work out. One option would be to lower the legal driving age for those communities or situations in
which parents demonstrate the significance of young children driving for their financial security and well
being. Those without this justification must wait until they are 21, frontal lobes matured and the novelty
of intoxication lowered.

The most interesting and relevant age-related issue is when someone is treated as an adult as
opposed to a juvenile criminal. Within the United States, most states set the bar at 18 years, but some as
young as 16. Where a state sets its bar determines whether or not the individual is eligible for the death
penalty or a life sentence, as well as a host of social services. Many states with the bar currently set
below 18, including my own state of Massachusetts, are presently debating whether the age limit should
be raised. For some, the issue is simply one of parity: this is not an issue where states should differ, and
thus everyone should be with the majority at 18 years. Others add to this discussion by arguing that it
should be 18 because of brain maturation. Although it is absolutely the case that a more mature brain
brings with it better self-control and less sensation-seeking or risk-taking, there is no evidence of a
reliable difference between 16, 17 and 18 year olds. Some 16 year olds are remarkably patient and risk-
averse whereas some 18 years olds are remarkably impulsive and risk-prone. If this is to be a meaningful
discussion about future risks, plasticity, and the opportunity for rehabilitation, it will have to grapple with
the scientific evidence that is presently on offer.

When we use age to distinguish between legally permissible and forbidden actions, we have
acknowledged that our biology and upbringing represent mitigating factors. We believe that juvenile
crimes are forgivable and their actions correctable. In fact, their crimes are forgivable because their
actions are correctable. Once we admit nature and nurture into the legal calculus concerning our youths,
we must also allow such factors to guide our decisions about adults with developmental disorders, brain
damage, and different genetic make-up. Yet, the law seems to have a double standard: youths lack free
will, whereas adults have it, even if it is somewhat diminished. But if we believe that juveniles lack a
sufficiently mature capacity for self-control, planning and thinking about alternative options, then we
must recognize that fully mature adults can lose these capacities as they naturally age, and can lose them
at any age if they suffer from brain damage. We must also wrestle with the fact that some people are born
with a genetic constitution that makes them more vulnerable to addictions, sensation-seeking, violence,
and a lack of compassion. Perhaps they too should be banned from driving, voting, drinking, marrying
and military combat. When do we look at the excessive harms caused by individuals or groups and hold
them responsible? When do we punish them to pay for their crimes and fend off future atrocities?

The law often invokes the notion of future dangerousness as a means of evaluating risk. So too
does the public and media. The general presumption is that for certain kinds of offences, there is a
predictably high level of recidivism, of doing the same thing over and over again. But the implication of
this judgment is that those who are deemed guilty are, in some way, not responsible for their future. Their
future is determined for them. In fact, it is so determined that the law is willing to make a confident
wager and send these criminals to prison or to their death. On this view, someone who has already

Hauser Epilogue. Evilightenment 148

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012894
