6 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

no known appointments there. Even so, Snowden carried to Hong
Kong digital copies he had made of the top secret NSA documents.
As General Michael Hayden, who served as the head of both the
NSA and the CIA, told me, “It’s very mysterious why Snowden
chose Hong Kong.” We can assume he had a compelling enough rea-
son for him to take the risk that he would be arrested there by Hong
Kong police after U.S. authorities invoked the detention provision
of its extradition treaty. It was of course possible that Snowden had
traveled there to see someone he believed could protect him.

I arrived in Hong Kong on May 20, 2014—exactly one year after
Snowden had arrived there aboard a Japan Airlines flight. I checked
in to the Mira hotel in the Tsim Sha Tsui shopping district of Kow-
loon, a ten-minute ferry ride away from Hong Kong Island, where
most of the foreign consulates are located.

I chose the Mira because it was the five-star hotel in which
Snowden had stayed and where he had made the celebrated video

© admitting his role in taking the NSA documents. I asked at the front ©
desk for room 1014, the same one that Snowden had occupied in
2013, because I wanted easy access to the hotel’s service and secu-
rity personnel responsible for the room who might have had contact
with Snowden a year earlier, Unfortunately, that room was occupied,
but I was given a nearby room that served my purpose.

Snowden had told Glenn Greenwald and Laura Poitras, the
Guardian reporters he met in Hong Kong, that he had hidden out
at the Mira hotel since his arrival in Hong Kong because he feared
that the CIA might capture him. My first surprise was that Snowden
had not arrived at the Mira until eleven days after he arrived in
Hong Kong. As I learned from the hotel staff, Snowden had regis-
tered there under his real name and used his own passport and credit
card to secure the room, an odd choice if he was hiding out. He had
checked in to the hotel not on May 20, as he had told the reporters,
but on June 1, 2013. He checked out on June 10.

Wherever Snowden stayed from May 20 to June 1, he apparently
considered it a safe enough place from which to send Greenwald a
“welcome package,” as he called it, of twenty top secret NSA docu-

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_rt.zindd 6 ® 929N6 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019494
