Epstein, in man-who-can-have-everything fashion, has, for many
years, ordered up a daily massage following his workout sessions.

“Often these were massage massages,” says Epstein matter of factly,
“but sometimes these were happy ending massages, especially in Palm
Beach, where there are many massage parlors—‘Jack Shacks,’ they’re
called—that do outcalls. There was no sex. An often there was no happy
ending. Often I would be on the phone for the entire massage. There were
however a lot of massages and a lot of girls, with one girl recommending
others.”

It is after Epstein’s round of publicity and widely touted association
with Clinton, that the mother of one of the massage parlor girls who went to
Epstein’s house (most of the girls return to Epstein’s house many times)
calls the police. The police interview the girl, Saige Gonzales, who then
supplies names of other girls. Some of whom are found to be younger than
18.

In the end, the police track down 18 girls—nine who are under 18; the
others in their 20s and 30s; one woman is in her 60s—a number of whom
give statements describing scenarios not terribly different from Epstein’s
description above, except each is laid out in clinical, lurid, and near-identical
detail. A cold and forceful Epstein demands that unwitting juveniles (though
they have come here for this very purpose) perform repulsive (or at least
repulsively described) acts on him. (Although the nature of the allegations
will dramatically grow, nobody at this point alleges that he did anything to
them.)

Epstein, tipped to the investigation, vastly raises the stakes, calling
Dershowitz, who flies into Palm Beach to put the local authorities in their
place—alienating Palm Beach officialdom—and, doubling down on the
profile of the case. Dershowitz brings in Roy Black the famous criminal
attorney who defended William Kennedy Smith in his rape trial in Palm
Beach.

Here’s the narrative: the shadowy rich man, friend of the louche and
disgraced President, at all times surrounded by a retinue of gorgeous
retainers doing his bidding, is now found to have gathered a network of
wrong-side-of-the-tracks Palm Beach girls to provide him with weird sexual
services. (It somehow reads weirder that he doesn’t have sex with them.) To
boot, his former girl friend, Ghislaine Maxwell—the daughter of the
disgraced Robert Maxwell—encouraged at least one of the girls to come to
Epstein’s home (and forever more has become a fixture of further weird
possibilities in this tale).

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022741
