Date: 7/13/06 PALM BEACH POLICE DEPARTMENT Page: 32
Time: 9:27:55 Incident Report Program: CMS301L

Case No. . . . : 1-05-000368 | (Continued)
On March 31, 2005, Sgt. Daniel Szarszewski requested that I set up a
surveillance vehicle on El Brillo Way and conduct video surveillance
of the front exterior of Epstein's residence. At 3:00 p.m., I set up
a surveillance vehicle equipped with a video monitoring device. The
surveillance vehicle was parked on El Brillo Way approximately fifty
feet east of Epstein's driveway. The purpose of the video
surveillance was to gather investigative intelligence by monitoring
and recording all vehicle and pedestrian traffic entering and leaving
Epstein's property.

The video surveillance tapes were changed daily with a new Maxell
T-160 VHS tape. Video surveillance was established for Epstein s from
March 31, 2005 through April 05, 2005. On April 05, 2005, video
surveillance was concluded. I reviewed the video tapes and advised
Detective Pagan the surveillance videos yielded no evidentiary value.

On April 01, 2005 at 9:30 a.m., I responded to the area of 358 El
Brillo Way to meet with Town of Palm Beach sanitation employee, Jessie
Jones. While parked in the area of 358 El Brillo Way waiting to
collect Epstein s trash, I observed a white female, who I recognized
as Ty «= er Florida driver's license photograph. I
made no contact os While parked in the area, I also
observed Epstein s GMC Yukon truck leave the property as well as other
vehicles arrive and park across the street from the property. The
occupants of these vehicles appeared to be housekeepers, maintenance
men, and gardeners. .

At 9:38 a.m., I met with Town of Palm Beach sanitation employee,
Jessie Jones. I observed Jones enter the driveway of 358 El Brillo
Way and collect the trash from Epstein s property. I followed Jessie
to a predetermined area at which time I collected the trash bags from
the sanitation truck. I transported the trash bags to the sanitation
department, where I sifted through its contents. I collected mail

correspondences addressed to Jeffrey a a and bé
personal documents for Janusz Banasiak and as well as —
Jeffrey Epstein notepaper with the names and appointment times for
| No last names or other personal information was
written on the notepaper.

While sifting through Epstein s trash, I also collected a three-inch
purple finger size object, which had a broken end. The object

appeared to be a broke piece from a sexual toy similar to a (Cyclone
Vibrator) possibly used for rectal gratification. The sexual object

was photographed for Detective Pagan, packaged in a biohazard evidence
bag (possible body fluids) and secured as investigative evidence. All

items collected from Epstein s trash were turned over to Detective
Pagan for evidentiary purposes.

on April 05, 2005 at 9:18 a.m., I met with Town of Palm Beach
sanitation employee, Jessie Jones. I observed Jones enter the
driveway of 358 El Brillo Way and collect the trash from Epstein s
property. I followed Jessie to a predetermined area at which time I

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018985
