54038

Federal Register/Vol. 76, No. 168/Tuesday, August 30, 2011/Rules and Regulations

No Statutory Authority for the Proposed
Rule

The majority concedes that the
“National Labor Relations Act does not
directly address an employer’s
obligation to post a notice of its
employees’ rights arising under the Act
or the consequences an employer may
face for failing to do so.”’ In fact, the
NLRA 173 makes no mention of any such
putative obligation. The majority further
acknowledges that the NLRA “is almost
unique among major Federal labor laws
in not including an express statutory
provision requiring employers routinely
to post notices at their workplaces
informing employees of their statutory
rights.’’ Despite the obvious import of
these admissions, the majority
concludes that the Board’s plenary
authority under Section 6 of the Act to
make rules “necessary to carry out the
provisions of the Act” permits
promulgation of the rule they advocate.
I disagree.

Congress did not give specific
statutory authority to the Board to
require the posting of a general rights
notice when it passed the Wagner Act
in 1935. Just one year earlier, however,
Congress amended the Railway Labor
Act (“RLA’’) to include an express
notice-posting requirement. 45 U.S.C.
152 Eighth; Pub. L. No. 73-442, 48 Stat.
1185, 1188 (1934). As the Supreme
Court noted, the RLA served as the
model for the National Labor Relations
Act. NLRBB v. Pennsylvania Greyhound
Lines, 303 U.S. 261 (1938). See also
NLEB v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp.,
301 U.S. 1, 44 (1937); H. J. Heinz Co. v.
NLRB, 311 U.S. 514, 524-525(1941).

That Congress did not include an
express notice-posting requirement
when passing the Wagner Act the
following year strongly implies, if not
compels, the conclusion that Congress
did not intend for the Board to have
regulatory authority to require such a
notice. Nothing in the legislative history
hints of any concern by Congress about
the need for employers to notify
employees generally of their rights
under the new enacting statute. Since
1935, despite extensive revisions in the
Taft-Hartley Act amendments of 1947
and the Landrum-Griffin Act
amendments of 1959, Congress has
never added such authority.

On the other hand, when Congress
has subsequently desired to include a
general rights notice-posting
requirement, it has done so expressly in
other federal labor and employment

173 Throughout this dissent, I will refer generally
to the statute we administer as the NLRA, unless
the discussion focuses on a specific historical
version, such as the Wagner Act.

laws. See Title VII of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964 (Title VID), 42 U.S.C.
2000e—10, the Age Discrimination in
Employment Act (ADEA), 29 U.S.C. 627,
The Occupational Safety and Health
Act, 29 U.S.C. 657(c), the Americans
with Disabilities Act (ADA), 42 U.S.C.
12115, the Family and Medical Leave
Act (FMLA), 29 U.S.C. 2619(a), and the
Uniformed Service Employment and
Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA),
38 U.S.C. 4334(a).

The majority points out that the
Department of Labor (DOL) promulgated
a notice-posting rule under the Fair
Labor Standards Act (FLSA), although
that statute does not contain a specific
statutory provision on workplace
postings. However, the FLSA, unlike the
NLRA, imposes a data-collection and
recordkeeping requirement on
employers. 29 U.S.C. 211{c). DOL’s
Wage and Hour Administrator
promulgated the notice-posting
regulation in 1949 in reliance on this
requirement. It appears that the
propriety of the FLSA rule has never
been challenged, perhaps because,
unlike the rule promulgated herein,
there are no citations or penalties
assessed for the failure to post. This is
a significant point of distinction that
warrants further discussion.

It must be constantly borne in mind
that the rule promulgated today makes
the failure to post the required notice a
violation of the Act. The majority
misleadingly seeks to decouple
obligation from violation in its analysis
by discussing the latter in the context of
enforcement of the assertedly lawful
notice-posting rule. That is nonsense.
Making noncompliance an unfair labor
practice is integral to the rule and,
consequently, integral to an analysis of
whether the notice-posting requirement
is a permissible exercise of the Board’s
rulemaking authority. Of the
aforementioned agencies that have
notice-posting requirements, none of
them makes the failure to post unlawful,
absent additional specific statutory
authorization. Only the RLA, Title VII,
FMLA, and the Occupational Safety Act
(OSHA) have such authorizing language.
ADA, the ADEA, the FLSA, and the
USERRA do not. Consequently, an
employer’s failure to post a notice under
those statutes is not subject to sanction
as unlawful.

Thus, both before and after the
Wagner Act, Congress has consistently
manifested by express statutory
language its intent to impose a general
notice-posting duty on employers with
respect to the rights of employees under
various federal labor laws. Only one
administrative agency promulgated a
notice-posting requirement in the

absence of such language in its enabling
statute. No agency has made the failure
to comply with a notice-posting
requirement unlawful absent express
statutory authorization, until today.

The explicit inclusion of notice-
posting provisions and permissible
sanctions by Congress in other labor
legislation undercuts the majority’s
claim that this notice-posting rule is not
a “major policy decision properly made
by Congress alone.” Strangely, the
majority does not merely contend that
this pattern in comparable labor
legislation fails to prove that Congress
did not intend that the Board should
have the rulemaking authority under
Section 6 to mandate the notice posting
at issue here. They conversely contend
that it proves Congress must have
intended to confer such authority on the
Board! 174

Perhaps cognizant of the weakness of
this position, the majority attempts to
downplay the import of Congressional
silence on the Board’s authority to
mandate notice posting and to enforce
that mandate through unfair labor
practice sanctions. They cite Cheney
R.R. Co. v. ICC, 902 F. 2d 66, 68-69
(D.C. Cir. 1990), for the proposition that
the maxim “‘expressio unius est exclusio
alterius,” which holds that the special
mention of one thing indicates an intent
for another thing not be included
elsewhere, may not always be a useful
tool for interpreting the intent of
Congress. Obviously, the usefulness of
this tool depends on the context of a
particular statute. Independent Ins.
Agents of Am., Inc. v. Hawke, 211 F.3d
638 (D.C. Cir. 2000) (applying the
maxim). In my view, the absence of an
express notice provision in the NLRA,
and the failure to amend the Act to
include one when Congress expressly
included notice posting provisions in
other labor statutes, shows that it did
not intend to authorize the Board to
promulgate this rule.175

Arguing to the contrary, the majority
asserts that the notice-posting rule is

174 Of course, this reasoning would seem to
dictate that the failure of the Board to inform its
own employees of their general rights under the
Federal Labor Relations Act is an unfair labor
practice, even though that statute imposes no such
express requirement. To date, I am not aware that
this agency, or any other, views itself as subject to
such an enforceable obligation.

175 The majority contends that the fact that the
rule comes 76 years after the NLRA was enacted is
not a “condition of validity.” Mayo Foundation for
Medical Education and Research v. United States,
131 S.Ct. 704, 713-14 (2011) (quoting Smiley v.
Citibank (S.D.), N.A., 517 U.S. 735, 740 (1996)
(“neither antiquity nor contemporaneity with the
statute is a condition of validity.”). I have no
problem with that proposition, but if the Board
lacks statutory authority to promulgate a rule, it is
of no matter that it attempts to do so in year 1 or
year 76 of its existence.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022309
