Prologue | 7

ments on May 25. He had now not only downloaded documents but
also violated the oath he had signed when he took his job by provid-
ing them to an unauthorized party. During this period, Snowden
also contacted Barton Gellman, on behalf of The Washington Post,
via e-mail. Indeed, while he was staying someplace other than the
place he claimed to be staying, he made almost all the arrangements
for his journalistic coming-out. He was in contact with at least one
foreign mission during this period, according to what he wrote to
Gellman on May 24. In that e-mail, concerning when and how his
story was to be published by The Washington Post, Snowden asked
Gellman to include some text that would help Snowden with his
dealings with this mission. But which country was he approaching?
In an effort to establish Snowden’s whereabouts during these “miss-
ing” eleven days, which, among other things, could shed light on
why he first came to Hong Kong, I called Keith Bradsher, a prizewin-
ning journalist who had been the New York Times bureau chief in
Hong Kong in 2013. He had written a well-researched report about
Snowden’s arrival there. He proposed we meet at the Foreign Cor-
© respondents’ Club. ®

Bradsher told me that he had known Albert Ho, who had been
retained as Snowden’s lawyer, for more than a decade. He had inter-
viewed him many times, because he was a leader of a political move-
ment in Hong Kong. Bradsher said that a few days after Snowden
had revealed himself on June 9, he met with Ho and questioned him
about Snowden’s unknown whereabouts.

Ho told Bradsher that all of Snowden’s logistics had been arranged
for him by an intermediary, whom Ho called a “carer.” Ho said that
Snowden had been in contact with the “carer” prior to his arrival in
Hong Kong on May 20. According to Ho, it was this person who had
arranged accommodations for Snowden on his arrival and afterward.
If so, it seemed to me that this person might be able to shed light
on whom, if anyone, Snowden saw in his first eleven days in Hong
Kong. Even if this person might have been unaware of the reasons
for Snowden’s trip to Hong Kong when he made the arrangements
for him, he was still the best lead I had to learning why Snowden
had come to Hong Kong. Bradsher told me that he pressed Ho for
details about this mystery person over the course of several meet-

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_rt.zindd 7 ® 929N6 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019495
