
ALSO BY MICHAEL WOLFF
Television Is the New Television:
The Unexpected Triumph of Old Media in the Digital Age
The Man Who Owns the News:
Inside the Secret World of Rupert Murdoch
Autumn of the Moguls:
My Misadventures with the Titans, Poseurs, and Money Guys Who Mastered and Messed
Up Big Media
Burn Rate:
How I Survived the Gold Rush Years on the Internet
Where We Stand
White Kids

LITTLE, BROWN
First published in the United States in 2018 by Henry Holt and Company
First published in Great Britain in 2018 by Little, Brown
Copyright © 2018 by Michael Wolff
The moral right of the author has been asserted.
Designed by Meryl Sussman Levavi
All rights reserved.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means,
without the prior permission in writing of the publisher, nor be otherwise circulated in any form of binding or cover
other than that in which it is published and without a similar condition including this condition being imposed on the
subsequent purchaser.
A CIP catalogue record for this book
is available from the British Library.
ISBN 978-1-4087-1138-5
Little, Brown
An imprint of
Little, Brown Book Group
Carmelite House
50 Victoria Embankment
London EC4Y 0DZ
An Hachette UK Company
www.hachette.co.uk
www.littlebrown.co.uk
For Victoria and Louise, mother and daughter
CONTENTS
AUTHOR’S NOTE
PROLOGUE: AILES AND BANNON
1. ELECTION DAY
2. TRUMP TOWER
3. DAY ONE
4. BANNON
5. JARVANKA
6. AT HOME
7. RUSSIA
8. ORG CHART
9. CPAC
10. GOLDMAN
11. WIRETAP
12. REPEAL AND REPLACE
13. BANNON AGONISTES
14. SITUATION ROOM
15. MEDIA
16. COMEY
17. ABROAD AND AT HOME
18. BANNON REDUX
19. MIKA WHO?
20. MCMASTER AND SCARAMUCCI
21. BANNON AND SCARAMUCCI
22. GENERAL KELLY
EPILOGUE: BANNON AND TRUMP
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
INDEX
AUTHOR’S NOTE
The reason to write this book could not be more obvious. With the inauguration of Donald
Trump on January 20, 2017, the United States entered the eye of the most extraordinary
political storm since at least Watergate. As the day approached, I set out to tell this story in
as contemporaneous a fashion as possible, and to try to see life in the Trump White House
through the eyes of the people closest to it.
This was originally conceived as an account of the Trump administration’s first
hundred days, that most traditional marker of a presidency. But events barreled on without
natural pause for more than two hundred days, the curtain coming down on the first act of
Trump’s presidency only with the appointment of retired general John Kelly as the chief of
staff in late July and the exit of chief strategist Stephen K. Bannon three weeks later.
The events I’ve described in these pages are based on conversations that took place
over a period of eighteen months with the president, with most members of his senior staff
—some of whom talked to me dozens of times—and with many people who they in turn
spoke to. The first interview occurred well before I could have imagined a Trump White
House, much less a book about it, in late May 2016 at Trump’s home in Beverly Hills—
the then candidate polishing off a pint of Häagen-Dazs vanilla as he happily and idly
opined about a range of topics while his aides, Hope Hicks, Corey Lewandowski, and
Jared Kushner, went in and out of the room. Conversations with members of the
campaign’s team continued through the Republican Convention in Cleveland, when it was
still hardly possible to conceive of Trump’s election. They moved on to Trump Tower with
a voluble Steve Bannon—before the election, when he still seemed like an entertaining
oddity, and later, after the election, when he seemed like a miracle worker.
Shortly after January 20, I took up something like a semipermanent seat on a couch in
the West Wing. Since then I have conducted more than two hundred interviews.
While the Trump administration has made hostility to the press a virtual policy, it has
also been more open to the media than any White House in recent memory. In the
beginning, I sought a level of formal access to this White House, something of a fly-onthe-wall
status. The president himself encouraged this idea. But, given the many fiefdoms
in the Trump White House that came into open conflict from the first days of the
administration, there seemed no one person able to make this happen. Equally, there was
no one to say “Go away.” Hence I became more a constant interloper than an invited guest
—something quite close to an actual fly on the wall—having accepted no rules nor having
made any promises about what I might or might not write.
Many of the accounts of what has happened in the Trump White House are in conflict
with one another; many, in Trumpian fashion, are baldly untrue. Those conflicts, and that
looseness with the truth, if not with reality itself, are an elemental thread of the book.
Sometimes I have let the players offer their versions, in turn allowing the reader to judge
them. In other instances I have, through a consistency in accounts and through sources I
have come to trust, settled on a version of events I believe to be true.
Some of my sources spoke to me on so-called deep background, a convention of
contemporary political books that allows for a disembodied description of events provided
by an unnamed witness to them. I have also relied on off-the-record interviews, allowing a
source to provide a direct quote with the understanding that it was not for attribution.
Other sources spoke to me with the understanding that the material in the interviews
would not become public until the book came out. Finally, some sources spoke
forthrightly on the record.
At the same time, it is worth noting some of the journalistic conundrums that I faced
when dealing with the Trump administration, many of them the result of the White
House’s absence of official procedures and the lack of experience of its principals. These
challenges have included dealing with off-the-record or deep-background material that
was later casually put on the record; sources who provided accounts in confidence and
subsequently shared them widely, as though liberated by their first utterances; a frequent
inattention to setting any parameters on the use of a conversation; a source’s views being
so well known and widely shared that it would be risible not to credit them; and the almost
samizdat sharing, or gobsmacked retelling, of otherwise private and deep-background
conversations. And everywhere in this story is the president’s own constant, tireless, and
uncontrolled voice, public and private, shared by others on a daily basis, sometimes
virtually as he utters it.
For whatever reason, almost everyone I contacted—senior members of the White
House staff as well as dedicated observers of it—shared large amounts of time with me
and went to great effort to help shed light on the unique nature of life inside the Trump
White House. In the end, what I witnessed, and what this book is about, is a group of
people who have struggled, each in their own way, to come to terms with the meaning of
working for Donald Trump.
I owe them an enormous debt.
PROLOGUE:
AILES AND BANNON
T
he evening began at six-thirty, but Steve Bannon, suddenly among the world’s most
powerful men and now less and less mindful of time constraints, was late.
Bannon had promised to come to this small dinner arranged by mutual friends in a
Greenwich Village town house to see Roger Ailes, the former head of Fox News and the
most significant figure in right-wing media and Bannon’s sometime mentor. The next day,
January 4, 2017—little more than two weeks before the inauguration of his friend Donald
Trump as the forty-fifth president—Ailes would be heading to Palm Beach, into a forced,
but he hoped temporary, retirement.
Snow was threatening, and for a while the dinner appeared doubtful. The seventy-sixyear-old
Ailes, with a long history of leg and hip problems, was barely walking, and,
coming in to Manhattan with his wife Beth from their upstate home on the Hudson, was
wary of slippery streets. But Ailes was eager to see Bannon. Bannon’s aide, Alexandra
Preate, kept texting steady updates on Bannon’s progress extracting himself from Trump
Tower.
As the small group waited for Bannon, it was Ailes’s evening. Quite as dumbfounded
by his old friend Donald Trump’s victory as most everyone else, Ailes provided the
gathering with something of a mini-seminar on the randomness and absurdities of politics.
Before launching Fox News in 1996, Ailes had been, for thirty years, among the leading
political operatives in the Republican Party. As surprised as he was by this election, he
could yet make a case for a straight line from Nixon to Trump. He just wasn’t sure, he
said, that Trump himself, at various times a Republican, Independent, and Democrat,
could make the case. Still, he thought he knew Trump as well as anyone did and was eager
to offer his help. He was also eager to get back into the right-wing media game, and he
energetically described some of the possibilities for coming up with the billion or so
dollars he thought he would need for a new cable network.
Both men, Ailes and Bannon, fancied themselves particular students of history, both
autodidacts partial to universal field theories. They saw this in a charismatic sense—they
had a personal relationship with history, as well as with Donald Trump.
Now, however reluctantly, Ailes understood that, at least for the moment, he was
passing the right-wing torch to Bannon. It was a torch that burned bright with ironies.
Ailes’s Fox News, with its $1.5 billion in annual profits, had dominated Republican
politics for two decades. Now Bannon’s Breitbart News, with its mere $1.5 million in
annual profits, was claiming that role. For thirty years, Ailes—until recently the single
most powerful person in conservative politics—had humored and tolerated Donald Trump,
but in the end Bannon and Breitbart had elected him.
Six months before, when a Trump victory still seemed out of the realm of the possible,
Ailes, accused of sexual harassment, was cashiered from Fox News in a move engineered
by the liberal sons of conservative eighty-five-year-old Rupert Murdoch, the controlling
shareholder of Fox News and the most powerful media owner of the age. Ailes’s downfall
was cause for much liberal celebration: the greatest conservative bugbear in modern
politics had been felled by the new social norm. Then Trump, hardly three months later,
accused of vastly more louche and abusive behavior, was elected president.
* * *
Ailes enjoyed many things about Trump: his salesmanship, his showmanship, his gossip.
He admired Trump’s sixth sense for the public marketplace—or at least the relentlessness
and indefatigability of his ceaseless attempts to win it over. He liked Trump’s game. He
liked Trump’s impact and his shamelessness. “He just keeps going,” Ailes had marveled to
a friend after the first debate with Hillary Clinton. “You hit Donald along the head, and he
keeps going. He doesn’t even know he’s been hit.”
But Ailes was convinced that Trump had no political beliefs or backbone. The fact that
Trump had become the ultimate avatar of Fox’s angry common man was another sign that
we were living in an upside-down world. The joke was on somebody—and Ailes thought
it might be on him.
Still, Ailes had been observing politicians for decades, and in his long career he had
witnessed just about every type and style and oddity and confection and cravenness and
mania. Operatives like himself—and now, like Bannon—worked with all kinds. It was the
ultimate symbiotic and codependent relationship. Politicians were front men in a complex
organizational effort. Operatives knew the game, and so did most candidates and
officeholders. But Ailes was pretty sure Trump did not. Trump was undisciplined—he had
no capacity for any game plan. He could not be a part of any organization, nor was he
likely to subscribe to any program or principle. In Ailes’s view, he was “a rebel without a
cause.” He was simply “Donald”—as though nothing more need be said.
In early August, less than a month after Ailes had been ousted from Fox News, Trump
asked his old friend to take over the management of his calamitous campaign. Ailes,
knowing Trump’s disinclination to take advice, or even listen to it, turned him down. This
was the job Bannon took a week later.
After Trump’s victory, Ailes seemed to balance regret that he had not seized the chance
to run his friend’s campaign with incredulity that Trump’s offer had turned out to be the
ultimate opportunity. Trump’s rise to power, Ailes understood, was the improbable
triumph of many things that Ailes and Fox News represented. After all, Ailes was perhaps
the person most responsible for unleashing the angry-man currents of Trump’s victory: he
had invented the right-wing media that delighted in the Trump character.
Ailes, who was a member of the close circle of friends and advisers Trump frequently
called, found himself hoping he would get more time with the new president once he and
Beth moved to Palm Beach; he knew Trump planned to make regular trips to Mar-a-Lago,
down the road from Ailes’s new home. Still, though Ailes was well aware that in politics,
winning changes everything—the winner is the winner—he couldn’t quite get his head
around the improbable and bizarre fact that his friend Donald Trump was now president of
the United States.
* * *
At nine-thirty, three hours late, a good part of the dinner already eaten, Bannon finally
arrived. Wearing a disheveled blazer, his signature pairing of two shirts, and military
fatigues, the unshaven, overweight sixty-three-year-old joined the other guests at the table
and immediately took control of the conversation. Pushing a proffered glass of wine away
—“I don’t drink”—he dived into a live commentary, an urgent download of information
about the world he was about to take over.
“We’re going to flood the zone so we have every cabinet member for the next seven
days through their confirmation hearings,” he said of the business-and-military 1950s-type
cabinet choices. “Tillerson is two days, Session is two days, Mattis is two days… .”
Bannon veered from “Mad Dog” Mattis—the retired four-star general whom Trump
had nominated as secretary of defense—to a long riff on torture, the surprising liberalism
of generals, and the stupidity of the civilian-military bureaucracy. Then it was on to the
looming appointment of Michael Flynn—a favorite Trump general who’d been the
opening act at many Trump rallies—as the National Security Advisor.
“He’s fine. He’s not Jim Mattis and he’s not John Kelly … but he’s fine. He just needs
the right staff around him.” Still, Bannon averred: “When you take out all the never-
Trump guys who signed all those letters and all the neocons who got us in all these wars
… it’s not a deep bench.”
Bannon said he’d tried to push John Bolton, the famously hawkish diplomat, for the
job as National Security Advisor. Bolton was an Ailes favorite, too.
“He’s a bomb thrower,” said Ailes. “And a strange little fucker. But you need him.
Who else is good on Israel? Flynn is a little nutty on Iran. Tillerson”—the secretary of
state designate—“just knows oil.”
“Bolton’s mustache is a problem,” snorted Bannon. “Trump doesn’t think he looks the
part. You know Bolton is an acquired taste.”
“Well, rumors were that he got in trouble because he got in a fight in a hotel one night
and chased some woman.”
“If I told Trump that, he might have the job.”
* * *
Bannon was curiously able to embrace Trump while at the same time suggesting he did
not take him entirely seriously. He had first met Trump, the on-again off-again presidential
candidate, in 2010; at a meeting in Trump Tower, Bannon had proposed to Trump that he
spend half a million dollars backing Tea Party-style candidates as a way to further his
presidential ambitions. Bannon left the meeting figuring that Trump would never cough up
that kind of dough. He just wasn’t a serious player. Between that first encounter and mid-
August 2016, when he took over the Trump campaign, Bannon, beyond a few interviews
he had done with Trump for his Breitbart radio show, was pretty sure he hadn’t spent more
than ten minutes in one-on-one conversation with Trump.
But now Bannon’s Zeitgeist moment had arrived. Everywhere there was a sudden
sense of global self-doubt. Brexit in the UK, waves of immigrants arriving on Europe’s
angry shores, the disenfranchisement of the workingman, the specter of more financial
meltdown, Bernie Sanders and his liberal revanchism—everywhere was backlash. Even
the most dedicated exponents of globalism were hesitating. Bannon believed that great
numbers of people were suddenly receptive to a new message: the world needs borders—
or the world should return to a time when it had borders. When America was great. Trump
had become the platform for that message.
By that January evening, Bannon had been immersed in Donald Trump’s world for
almost five months. And though he had accumulated a sizable catalogue of Trump’s
peculiarities, and cause enough for possible alarm about the unpredictability of his boss
and his views, that did not detract from Trump’s extraordinary, charismatic appeal to the
right-wing, Tea Party, Internet meme base, and now, in victory, from the opportunity he
was giving Steve Bannon.
* * *
“Does he get it?” asked Ailes suddenly, pausing and looking intently at Bannon.
He meant did Trump get it. This seemed to be a question about the right-wing agenda:
Did the playboy billionaire really get the workingman populist cause? But it was possibly
a point-blank question about the nature of power itself. Did Trump get where history had
put him?
Bannon took a sip of water. “He gets it,” said Bannon, after hesitating for perhaps a
beat too long. “Or he gets what he gets.”
With a sideways look, Ailes continued to stare him down, as though waiting for
Bannon to show more of his cards.
“Really,” Bannon said. “He’s on the program. It’s his program.” Pivoting from Trump
himself, Bannon plunged on with the Trump agenda. “Day one we’re moving the U.S.
embassy to Jerusalem. Netanyahu’s all in. Sheldon”—Sheldon Adelson, the casino
billionaire, far-right Israel defender, and Trump supporter—“is all in. We know where
we’re heading on this.”
“Does Donald know?” asked a skeptical Ailes.
Bannon smiled—as though almost with a wink—and continued:
“Let Jordan take the West Bank, let Egypt take Gaza. Let them deal with it. Or sink
trying. The Saudis are on the brink, Egyptians are on the brink, all scared to death of
Persia … Yemen, Sinai, Libya … this thing is bad… . That’s why Russia is so key… . Is
Russia that bad? They’re bad guys. But the world is full of bad guys.”
Bannon offered all this with something like ebullience—a man remaking the world.
“But it’s good to know the bad guys are the bad guys,” said Ailes, pushing Bannon.
“Donald may not know.”
The real enemy, said an on-point Bannon, careful not to defend Trump too much or to
dis him at all, was China. China was the first front in a new cold war. And it had all been
misunderstood in the Obama years—what we thought we understood we didn’t understand
at all. That was the failure of American intelligence. “I think Comey is a third-rate guy. I
think Brennan is a second-rate guy,” Bannon said, dismissing the FBI director and the CIA
director.
“The White House right now is like Johnson’s White House in 1968. Susan Rice”—
Obama’s National Security Advisor—“is running the campaign against ISIS as a National
Security Advisor. They’re picking the targets, she’s picking the drone strikes. I mean,
they’re running the war with just as much effectiveness as Johnson in sixty-eight. The
Pentagon is totally disengaged from the whole thing. Intel services are disengaged from
the whole thing. The media has let Obama off the hook. Take the ideology away from it,
this is complete amateur hour. I don’t know what Obama does. Nobody on Capitol Hill
knows him, no business guys know him—what has he accomplished, what does he do?”
“Where’s Donald on this?” asked Ailes, now with the clear implication that Bannon
was far out ahead of his benefactor.
“He’s totally on board.”
“Focused?”
“He buys it.”
“I wouldn’t give Donald too much to think about,” said an amused Ailes.
Bannon snorted. “Too much, too little—doesn’t necessarily change things.”
* * *
“What has he gotten himself into with the Russians?” pressed Ailes.
“Mostly,” said Bannon, “he went to Russia and he thought he was going to meet Putin.
But Putin couldn’t give a shit about him. So he’s kept trying.”
“He’s Donald,” said Ailes.
“It’s a magnificent thing,” said Bannon, who had taken to regarding Trump as
something like a natural wonder, beyond explanation.
Again, as though setting the issue of Trump aside—merely a large and peculiar
presence to both be thankful for and to have to abide—Bannon, in the role he had
conceived for himself, the auteur of the Trump presidency, charged forward:
“China’s everything. Nothing else matters. We don’t get China right, we don’t get
anything right. This whole thing is very simple. China is where Nazi Germany was in
1929 to 1930. The Chinese, like the Germans, are the most rational people in the world,
until they’re not. And they’re gonna flip like Germany in the thirties. You’re going to have
a hypernationalist state, and once that happens you can’t put the genie back in the bottle.”
“Donald might not be Nixon in China,” said Ailes, deadpan, suggesting that for Trump
to seize the mantle of global transformation might strain credulity.
Bannon smiled. “Bannon in China,” he said, with both remarkable grandiosity and wry
self-deprecation.
“How’s the kid?” asked Ailes, referring to Trump’s son-in-law and paramount political
adviser, thirty-six-year-old Jared Kushner.
“He’s my partner,” said Bannon, his tone suggesting that if he felt otherwise, he was
nevertheless determined to stay on message.
“Really?” said a dubious Ailes.
“He’s on the team.”
“He’s had lot of lunches with Rupert.”
“In fact,” said Bannon, “I could use your help here.” Bannon then spent several
minutes trying to recruit Ailes to help kneecap Murdoch. Ailes, since his ouster from Fox,
had become only more bitter towards Murdoch. Now Murdoch was frequently jawboning
the president-elect and encouraging him toward establishment moderation—all a strange
inversion in the ever-stranger currents of American conservatism. Bannon wanted Ailes to
suggest to Trump, a man whose many neuroses included a horror of forgetfulness or
senility, that Murdoch might be losing it.
“I’ll call him,” said Ailes. “But Trump would jump through hoops for Rupert. Like for
Putin. Sucks up and shits down. I just worry about who’s jerking whose chain.”
The older right-wing media wizard and the younger (though not by all that much)
continued on to the other guests’ satisfaction until twelve-thirty, the older trying to see
through to the new national enigma that was Trump—although Ailes would say that in
fact Trump’s behavior was ever predictable—and the younger seemingly determined not
to spoil his own moment of destiny.
“Donald Trump has got it. He’s Trump, but he’s got it. Trump is Trump,” affirmed
Bannon.
“Yeah, he’s Trump,” said Ailes, with something like incredulity.
1
ELECTION DAY
O
n the afternoon of November 8, 2016, Kellyanne Conway—Donald Trump’s
campaign manager and a central, indeed starring, personality of Trumpworld—
settled into her glass office at Trump Tower. Right up until the last weeks of the race, the
Trump campaign headquarters had remained a listless place. All that seemed to distinguish
it from a corporate back office were a few posters with right-wing slogans.
Conway now was in a remarkably buoyant mood considering she was about to
experience a resounding if not cataclysmic defeat. Donald Trump would lose the election
—of this she was sure—but he would quite possibly hold the defeat to under 6 points.
That was a substantial victory. As for the looming defeat itself, she shrugged it off: it was
Reince Priebus’s fault, not hers.
She had spent a good part of the day calling friends and allies in the political world and
blaming Priebus. Now she briefed some of the television producers and anchors with
whom she’d built strong relationships—and with whom, actively interviewing in the last
few weeks, she was hoping to land a permanent on-air job after the election. She’d
carefully courted many of them since joining the Trump campaign in mid-August and
becoming the campaign’s reliably combative voice and, with her spasmodic smiles and
strange combination of woundedness and imperturbability, peculiarly telegenic face.
Beyond all of the other horrible blunders of the campaign, the real problem, she said,
was the devil they couldn’t control: the Republican National Committee, which was run
by Priebus, his sidekick, thirty-two-year-old Katie Walsh, and their flack, Sean Spicer.
Instead of being all in, the RNC, ultimately the tool of the Republican establishment, had
been hedging its bets ever since Trump won the nomination in early summer. When
Trump needed the push, the push just wasn’t there.
That was the first part of Conway’s spin. The other part was that despite everything,
the campaign had really clawed its way back from the abyss. A severely underresourced
team with, practically speaking, the worst candidate in modern political history—Conway
offered either an eye-rolling pantomime whenever Trump’s name was mentioned, or a
dead stare—had actually done extraordinarily well. Conway, who had never been involved
in a national campaign, and who, before Trump, ran a small-time, down-ballot polling
firm, understood full well that, post-campaign, she would now be one of the leading
conservative voices on cable news.
In fact, one of the Trump campaign pollsters, John McLaughlin, had begun to suggest
within the past week or so that some key state numbers, heretofore dismal, might actually
be changing to Trump’s advantage. But neither Conway nor Trump himself nor his son-inlaw
Jared Kushner—the effective head of the campaign, or the designated family monitor
of it—wavered in their certainty: their unexpected adventure would soon be over.
Only Steve Bannon, in his odd-man view, insisted the numbers would break in their
favor. But this being Bannon’s view—crazy Steve—it was quite the opposite of being a
reassuring one.
Almost everybody in the campaign, still an extremely small outfit, thought of
themselves as a clear-eyed team, as realistic about their prospects as perhaps any in
politics. The unspoken agreement among them: not only would Donald Trump not be
president, he should probably not be. Conveniently, the former conviction meant nobody
had to deal with the latter issue.
As the campaign came to an end, Trump himself was sanguine. He had survived the
release of the Billy Bush tape when, in the uproar that followed, the RNC had had the gall
to pressure him to quit the race. FBI director James Comey, having bizarrely hung Hillary
out to dry by saying he was reopening the investigation into her emails eleven days before
the election, had helped avert a total Clinton landslide.
“I can be the most famous man in the world,” Trump told his on-again, off-again aide
Sam Nunberg at the outset of the campaign.
“But do you want to be president?” Nunberg asked (a qualitatively different question
than the usual existential candidate test: “Why do you want to be president?”). Nunberg
did not get an answer.
The point was, there didn’t need to be an answer because he wasn’t going to be
president.
Trump’s longtime friend Roger Ailes liked to say that if you wanted a career in
television, first run for president. Now Trump, encouraged by Ailes, was floating rumors
about a Trump network. It was a great future.
He would come out of this campaign, Trump assured Ailes, with a far more powerful
brand and untold opportunities. “This is bigger than I ever dreamed of,” he told Ailes in a
conversation a week before the election. “I don’t think about losing because it isn’t losing.
We’ve totally won.” What’s more, he was already laying down his public response to
losing the election: It was stolen!
Donald Trump and his tiny band of campaign warriors were ready to lose with fire and
fury. They were not ready to win.
* * *
In politics somebody has to lose, but invariably everybody thinks they can win. And you
probably can’t win unless you believe that you will win—except in the Trump campaign.
The leitmotif for Trump about his own campaign was how crappy it was and how
everybody involved in it was a loser. He was equally convinced that the Clinton people
were brilliant winners—“They’ve got the best and we’ve got the worst,” he frequently
said. Time spent with Trump on the campaign plane was often an epic dissing experience:
everybody around him was an idiot.
Corey Lewandowski, who served as Trump’s first more or less official campaign
manager, was often berated by the candidate. For months Trump called him “the worst,”
and in June 2016 he was finally fired. Ever after, Trump proclaimed his campaign doomed
without Lewandowski. “We’re all losers,” he would say. “All our guys are terrible, nobody
knows what they’re doing… . Wish Corey was back.” Trump quickly soured on his
second campaign manager, Paul Manafort, as well.
By August, trailing Clinton by 12 to 17 points and facing a daily firestorm of
eviscerating press, Trump couldn’t conjure even a far-fetched scenario for achieving an
electoral victory. At this dire moment, Trump in some essential sense sold his losing
campaign. The right-wing billionaire Bob Mercer, a Ted Cruz backer, had shifted his
support to Trump with a $5 million infusion. Believing the campaign was cratering,
Mercer and his daughter Rebekah took a helicopter from their Long Island estate out to a
scheduled fundraiser—with other potential donors bailing by the second—at New York
Jets owner and Johnson & Johnson heir Woody Johnson’s summer house in the Hamptons.
Trump had no real relationship with either father or daughter. He’d had only a few
conversations with Bob Mercer, who mostly talked in monosyllables; Rebekah Mercer’s
entire history with Trump consisted of a selfie taken with him at Trump Tower. But when
the Mercers presented their plan to take over the campaign and install their lieutenants,
Steve Bannon and Kellyanne Conway, Trump didn’t resist. He only expressed vast
incomprehension about why anyone would want to do that. “This thing,” he told the
Mercers, “is so fucked up.”
By every meaningful indicator, something greater than even a sense of doom shadowed
what Steve Bannon called “the broke-dick campaign”—a sense of structural impossibility.
The candidate who billed himself as a billionaire—ten times over—refused even to
invest his own money in it. Bannon told Jared Kushner—who, when Bannon signed on to
the campaign, had been off with his wife on a holiday in Croatia with Trump enemy David
Geffen—that, after the first debate in September, they would need an additional $50
million to cover them until election day.
“No way we’ll get fifty million unless we can guarantee him victory,” said a clear-eyed
Kushner.
“Twenty-five million?” prodded Bannon.
“If we can say victory is more than likely.”
In the end, the best Trump would do is loan the campaign $10 million, provided he got
it back as soon as they could raise other money. (Steve Mnuchin, then the campaign’s
finance chairman, came to collect the loan with the wire instructions ready to go, so
Trump couldn’t conveniently forget to send the money.)
There was in fact no real campaign because there was no real organization, or at best
only a uniquely dysfunctional one. Roger Stone, the early de facto campaign manager, quit
or was fired by Trump—with each man publicly claiming he had slapped down the other.
Sam Nunberg, a Trump aide who had worked for Stone, was noisily ousted by
Lewandowski, and then Trump exponentially increased the public dirty-clothes-washing
by suing Nunberg. Lewandowski and Hope Hicks, the PR aide put on the campaign by
Ivanka Trump, had an affair that ended in a public fight on the street—an incident cited by
Nunberg in his response to Trump’s suit. The campaign, on its face, was not designed to
win anything.
Even as Trump eliminated the sixteen other Republican candidates, however farfetched
that might have seemed, it did not make the ultimate goal of winning the
presidency any less preposterous.
And if, during the fall, winning seemed slightly more plausible, that evaporated with
the Billy Bush affair. “I’m automatically attracted to beautiful—I just start kissing them,”
Trump told the NBC host Billy Bush on an open mic, amid the ongoing national debate
about sexual harassment. “It’s like a magnet. Just kiss. I don’t even wait. And when you’re
a star they let you do it. You can do anything… . Grab them by the pussy. You can do
anything.”
It was an operatic unraveling. So mortifying was this development that when Reince
Priebus, the RNC head, was called to New York from Washington for an emergency
meeting at Trump Tower, he couldn’t bring himself to leave Penn Station. It took two
hours for the Trump team to coax him across town.
“Bro,” said a desperate Bannon, cajoling Priebus on the phone, “I may never see you
again after today, but you gotta come to this building and you gotta walk through the front
door.”
* * *
The silver lining of the ignominy Melania Trump had to endure after the Billy Bush tape
was that now there was no way her husband could become president.
Donald Trump’s marriage was perplexing to almost everybody around him—or it was,
anyway, for those without private jets and many homes. He and Melania spent relatively
little time together. They could go days at a time without contact, even when they were
both in Trump Tower. Often she did not know where he was, or take much notice of that
fact. Her husband moved between residences as he would move between rooms. Along
with knowing little about his whereabouts, she knew little about his business, and took at
best modest interest in it. An absentee father for his first four children, Trump was even
more absent for his fifth, Barron, his son with Melania. Now on his third marriage, he told
friends he thought he had finally perfected the art: live and let live—“Do your own thing.”
He was a notorious womanizer, and during the campaign became possibly the world’s
most famous masher. While nobody would ever say Trump was sensitive when it came to
women, he had many views about how to get along with them, including a theory he
discussed with friends about how the more years between an older man and a younger
woman, the less the younger woman took an older man’s cheating personally.
Still, the notion that this was a marriage in name only was far from true. He spoke of
Melania frequently when she wasn’t there. He admired her looks—often, awkwardly for
her, in the presence of others. She was, he told people proudly and without irony, a
“trophy wife.” And while he may not have quite shared his life with her, he gladly shared
the spoils of it. “A happy wife is a happy life,” he said, echoing a popular rich-man truism.
He also sought Melania’s approval. (He sought the approval of all the women around
him, who were wise to give it.) In 2014, when he first seriously began to consider running
for president, Melania was one of the few who thought it was possible he could win. It
was a punch line for his daughter, Ivanka, who had carefully distanced herself from the
campaign. With a never-too-hidden distaste for her stepmother, Ivanka would say to
friends: All you have to know about Melania is that she thinks if he runs he’ll certainly
win.
But the prospect of her husband’s actually becoming president was, for Melania, a
horrifying one. She believed it would destroy her carefully sheltered life—one sheltered,
not inconsiderably, from the extended Trump family—which was almost entirely focused
on her young son.
Don’t put the cart before the horse, her amused husband said, even as he spent every
day on the campaign trail, dominating the news. But her terror and torment mounted.
There was a whisper campaign about her, cruel and comical in its insinuations, going
on in Manhattan, which friends told her about. Her modeling career was under close
scrutiny. In Slovenia, where she grew up, a celebrity magazine, Suzy, put the rumors about
her into print after Trump got the nomination. Then, with a sickening taste of what might
be ahead, the Daily Mail blew the story across the world.
The New York Post got its hands on outtakes from a nude photo shoot that Melania had
done early in her modeling career—a leak that everybody other than Melania assumed
could be traced back to Trump himself.
Inconsolable, she confronted her husband. Is this the future? She told him she wouldn’t
be able to take it.
Trump responded in his fashion—We’ll sue!—and set her up with lawyers who
successfully did just that. But he was unaccustomedly contrite, too. Just a little longer, he
told her. It would all be over in November. He offered his wife a solemn guarantee: there
was simply no way he would win. And even for a chronically—he would say helplessly—
unfaithful husband, this was one promise to his wife that he seemed sure to keep.
* * *
The Trump campaign had, perhaps less than inadvertently, replicated the scheme from Mel
Brooks’s The Producers. In that classic, Brooks’s larcenous and dopey heroes, Max
Bialystock and Leo Bloom, set out to sell more than 100 percent of the ownership stakes
in the Broadway show they are producing. Since they will be found out only if the show is
a hit, everything about the show is premised on its being a flop. Accordingly, they create a
show so outlandish that it actually succeeds, thus dooming our heroes.
Winning presidential candidates—driven by hubris or narcissism or a preternatural
sense of destiny—have, more than likely, spent a substantial part of their careers, if not
their lives from adolescence, preparing for the role. They rise up the ladder of elected
offices. They perfect a public face. They manically network, since success in politics is
largely about who your allies are. They cram. (Even in the case of an uninterested George
W. Bush, he relied on his father’s cronies to cram for him.) And they clean up after
themselves—or, at least, take great care to cover up. They prepare themselves to win and
to govern.
The Trump calculation, quite a conscious one, was different. The candidate and his top
lieutenants believed they could get all the benefits of almost becoming president without
having to change their behavior or their fundamental worldview one whit: we don’t have
to be anything but who and what we are, because of course we won’t win.
Many candidates for president have made a virtue of being Washington outsiders; in
practice, this strategy merely favors governors over senators. Every serious candidate, no
matter how much he or she disses Washington, relies on Beltway insiders for counsel and
support. But with Trump, hardly a person in his innermost circle had ever worked in
politics at the national level—his closest advisers had not worked in politics at all.
Throughout his life, Trump had few close friends of any kind, but when he began his
campaign for president he had almost no friends in politics. The only two actual
politicians with whom Trump was close were Rudy Giuliani and Chris Christie, and both
men were in their own way peculiar and isolated. And to say that he knew nothing—
nothing at all—about the basic intellectual foundations of the job was a comic
understatement. Early in the campaign, in a Producers-worthy scene, Sam Nunberg was
sent to explain the Constitution to the candidate: “I got as far as the Fourth Amendment
before his finger is pulling down on his lip and his eyes are rolling back in his head.”
Almost everybody on the Trump team came with the kind of messy conflicts bound to
bite a president or his staff. Mike Flynn, Trump’s future National Security Advisor, who
became Trump’s opening act at campaign rallies and whom Trump loved to hear complain
about the CIA and the haplessness of American spies, had been told by his friends that it
had not been a good idea to take $45,000 from the Russians for a speech. “Well, it would
only be a problem if we won,” he assured them, knowing that it would therefore not be a
problem.
Paul Manafort, the international lobbyist and political operative who Trump retained to
run his campaign after Lewandowski was fired—and who agreed not to take a fee, amping
up questions of quid pro quo—had spent thirty years representing dictators and corrupt
despots, amassing millions of dollars in a money trail that had long caught the eye of U.S.
investigators. What’s more, when he joined the campaign, he was being pursued, his every
financial step documented, by the billionaire Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska, who
claimed he stole $17 million from him in a crooked real estate scam.
For quite obvious reasons, no president before Trump and few politicians ever have
come out of the real estate business: a lightly regulated market, based on substantial debt
with exposure to frequent market fluctuations, it often depends on government favor, and
is a preferred exchange currency for problem cash—money laundering. Trump’s son-inlaw
Jared Kushner, Jared’s father Charlie, Trump’s sons Don Jr. and Eric, and his daughter
Ivanka, as well as Trump himself, all supported their business enterprises to a greater or
lesser extent working in the dubious limbo of international free cash flow and gray money.
Charlie Kushner, to whose real estate business interests Trump’s son-in-law and most
important aide was wholly tied, had already spent time in a federal prison for tax evasion,
witness tampering, and making illegal campaign donations.
Modern politicians and their staffs perform their most consequential piece of
opposition research on themselves. If the Trump team had vetted their candidate, they
would have reasonably concluded that heightened ethical scrutiny could easily put them in
jeopardy. But Trump pointedly performed no such effort. Roger Stone, Trump’s longtime
political adviser, explained to Steve Bannon that Trump’s psychic makeup made it
impossible for him to take such a close look at himself. Nor could he tolerate knowing that
somebody else would then know a lot about him—and therefore have something over him.
And anyway, why take such a close and potentially threatening look, because what were
the chances of winning?
Not only did Trump disregard the potential conflicts of his business deals and real
estate holdings, he audaciously refused to release his tax returns. Why should he if he
wasn’t going to win?
What’s more, Trump refused to spend any time considering, however hypothetically,
transition matters, saying it was “bad luck”—but really meaning it was a waste of time.
Nor would he even remotely contemplate the issue of his holdings and conflicts.
He wasn’t going to win! Or losing was winning.
Trump would be the most famous man in the world—a martyr to crooked Hillary
Clinton.
His daughter Ivanka and son-in-law Jared would have transformed themselves from
relatively obscure rich kids into international celebrities and brand ambassadors.
Steve Bannon would become the de facto head of the Tea Party movement.
Kellyanne Conway would be a cable news star.
Reince Priebus and Katie Walsh would get their Republican Party back.
Melania Trump could return to inconspicuously lunching.
That was the trouble-free outcome they awaited on November 8, 2016. Losing would
work out for everybody.
Shortly after eight o’clock that evening, when the unexpected trend—Trump might
actually win—seemed confirmed, Don Jr. told a friend that his father, or DJT, as he called
him, looked as if he had seen a ghost. Melania, to whom Donald Trump had made his
solemn guarantee, was in tears—and not of joy.
There was, in the space of little more than an hour, in Steve Bannon’s not unamused
observation, a befuddled Trump morphing into a disbelieving Trump and then into a quite
horrified Trump. But still to come was the final transformation: suddenly, Donald Trump
became a man who believed that he deserved to be and was wholly capable of being the
president of the United States.
2
TRUMP TOWER
O
n the Saturday after the election, Donald Trump received a small group of wellwishers
in his triplex apartment in Trump Tower. Even his close friends were still
shocked and bewildered, and there was a dazed quality to the gathering. But Trump
himself was mostly looking at the clock.
Rupert Murdoch, heretofore doubtlessly certain Trump was a charlatan and a fool, said
he and his new wife, Jerry Hall, would pay a call on the president-elect. But Murdoch was
late—quite late. Trump kept assuring his guests that Rupert was on his way, coming soon.
When some of the guests made a move to leave, Trump cajoled them to stay a little longer.
You’ll want to stay to see Rupert. (Or, one of the guests interpreted, you’ll want to stay to
see Trump with Rupert.)
Murdoch, who, with his then wife, Wendi, had often socialized with Jared and Ivanka,
in the past made little effort to hide his lack of interest in Trump. Murdoch’s fondness for
Kushner created a curious piece of the power dynamic between Trump and his son-in-law,
one that Kushner, with reasonable subtly, played to his advantage, often dropping
Murdoch’s name into conversations with his father-in-law. When, in 2015, Ivanka Trump
told Murdoch that her father really, truly was going to run for president, Murdoch
dismissed the possibility out of hand.
But now, the new president-elect—after the most astonishing upset in American history
—was on tenterhooks waiting for Murdoch. “He’s one of the greats,” he told his guests,
becoming more agitated as he waited. “Really, he’s one of the greats, the last of the greats.
You have to stay to see him.”
It was a matched set of odd reversals—an ironic symmetry. Trump, perhaps not yet
appreciating the difference between becoming president and elevating his social standing,
was trying mightily to curry favor with the previously disdainful media mogul. And
Murdoch, finally arriving at the party he was in more than one way sorely late to, was as
subdued and thrown as everyone else, and struggling to adjust his view of a man who, for
more than a generation, had been at best a clown prince among the rich and famous.
* * *
Murdoch was hardly the only billionaire who had been dismissive of Trump. In the years
before the election, Carl Icahn, whose friendship Trump often cited, and who Trump had
suggested he’d appoint to high office, openly ridiculed his fellow billionaire (whom he
said was not remotely a billionaire).
Few people who knew Trump had illusions about him. That was almost his appeal: he
was what he was. Twinkle in his eye, larceny in his soul.
But now he was the president-elect. And that, in a reality jujitsu, changed everything.
So say whatever you want about him, he had done this. Pulled the sword from the stone.
That meant something. Everything.
The billionaires had to rethink. So did everyone in the Trump orbit. The campaign
staff, now suddenly in a position to snag West Wing jobs—career- and history-making
jobs—had to see this odd, difficult, even ridiculous, and, on the face of it, ill-equipped
person in a new light. He had been elected president. So he was, as Kellyanne Conway
liked to point out, by definition, presidential.
Still, nobody had yet seen him be presidential—that is, make a public bow to political
ritual and propriety. Or even to exercise some modest self-control.
Others were now recruited and, despite their obvious impressions of the man, agreed to
sign on. Jim Mattis, a retired four-star general, one of the most respected commanders in
the U.S. armed forces; Rex Tillerson, CEO of ExxonMobil; Scott Pruitt and Betsy DeVos,
Jeb Bush loyalists—all of them were now focused on the singular fact that while he might
be a peculiar figure, even an absurd-seeming one, he had been elected president.
We can make this work, is what everybody in the Trump orbit was suddenly saying. Or,
at the very least, this could possibly work.
In fact, up close, Trump was not the bombastic and pugilistic man who had stirred
rabid crowds on the campaign trail. He was neither angry nor combative. He may have
been the most threatening and frightening and menacing presidential candidate in modern
history, but in person he could seem almost soothing. His extreme self-satisfaction rubbed
off. Life was sunny. Trump was an optimist—at least about himself. He was charming and
full of flattery; he focused on you. He was funny—self-deprecating even. And incredibly
energetic—Let’s do it whatever it is, let’s do it. He wasn’t a tough guy. He was “a big
warm-hearted monkey,” said Bannon, with rather faint praise.
PayPal cofounder and Facebook board member Peter Thiel—really the only significant
Silicon Valley voice to support Trump—was warned by another billionaire and longtime
Trump friend that Trump would, in an explosion of flattery, offer Thiel his undying
friendship. Everybody says you’re great, you and I are going to have an amazing working
relationship, anything you want, call me and we’ll get it done! Thiel was advised not to
take Trump’s offer too seriously. But Thiel, who gave a speech supporting Trump at the
Republican Convention in Cleveland, reported back that, even having been forewarned, he
absolutely was certain of Trump’s sincerity when he said they’d be friends for life—only
never to basically hear from him again or have his calls returned. Still, power provides its
own excuses for social lapses. Other aspects of the Trump character were more
problematic.
Almost all the professionals who were now set to join him were coming face to face
with the fact that it appeared he knew nothing. There was simply no subject, other than
perhaps building construction, that he had substantially mastered. Everything with him
was off the cuff. Whatever he knew he seemed to have learned an hour before—and that
was mostly half-baked. But each member of the new Trump team was convincing him- or
herself otherwise—because what did they know, the man had been elected president. He
offered something, obviously. Indeed, while everybody in his rich-guy social circle knew
about his wide-ranging ignorance—Trump, the businessman, could not even read a
balance sheet, and Trump, who had campaigned on his deal-making skills, was, with his
inattention to details, a terrible negotiator—they yet found him somehow instinctive. That
was the word. He was a force of personality. He could make you believe.
“Is Trump a good person, an intelligent person, a capable person?” asked Sam
Nunberg, Trump’s longtime political aide. “I don’t even know. But I know he’s a star.”
Trying to explain Trump’s virtues and his attraction, Piers Morgan—the British
newspaper man and ill-fated CNN anchor who had appeared on Celebrity Apprentice and
stayed a loyal Trump friend—said it was all in Trump’s book The Art of the Deal.
Everything that made him Trump and that defined his savvy, energy, and charisma was
there. If you wanted to know Trump, just read the book. But Trump had not written The
Art of the Deal. His co-writer, Tony Schwartz, insisted that he had hardly contributed to it
and might not even have read all of it. And that was perhaps the point. Trump was not a
writer, he was a character—a protagonist and hero.
A pro wrestling fan who became a World Wrestling Entertainment supporter and
personality (inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame), Trump lived, like Hulk Hogan, as a
real-life fictional character. To the amusement of his friends, and unease of many of the
people now preparing to work for him at the highest levels of the federal government,
Trump often spoke of himself in the third person. Trump did this. The Trumpster did that.
So powerful was this persona, or role, that he seemed reluctant, or unable, to give it up in
favor of being president—or presidential.
However difficult he was, many of those now around him tried to justify his behavior
—tried to find an explanation for his success in it, to understand it as an advantage, not a
limitation. For Steve Bannon, Trump’s unique political virtue was as an alpha male,
maybe the last of the alpha males. A 1950s man, a Rat Pack type, a character out of Mad
Men.
Trump’s understanding of his own essential nature was even more precise. Once,
coming back on his plane with a billionaire friend who had brought along a foreign model,
Trump, trying to move in on his friend’s date, urged a stop in Atlantic City. He would
provide a tour of his casino. His friend assured the model that there was nothing to
recommend Atlantic City. It was a place overrun by white trash.
“What is this ‘white trash’?” asked the model.
“They’re people just like me,” said Trump, “only they’re poor.”
He looked for a license not to conform, not to be respectable. It was something of an
outlaw prescription for winning—and winning, however you won, was what it was all
about.
Or, as his friends would observe, mindful themselves not to be taken in, he simply had
no scruples. He was a rebel, a disruptor, and, living outside the rules, contemptuous of
them. A close Trump friend who was also a good Bill Clinton friend found them eerily
similar—except that Clinton had a respectable front and Trump did not.
One manifestation of this outlaw personality, for both Trump and Clinton, was their
brand of womanizing—and indeed, harassing. Even among world-class womanizers and
harassers, they seemed exceptionally free of doubt or hesitation.
Trump liked to say that one of the things that made life worth living was getting your
friends’ wives into bed. In pursuing a friend’s wife, he would try to persuade the wife that
her husband was perhaps not what she thought. Then he’d have his secretary ask the friend
into his office; once the friend arrived, Trump would engage in what was, for him, more or
less constant sexual banter. Do you still like having sex with your wife? How often? You
must have had a better fuck than your wife? Tell me about it. I have girls coming in from
Los Angeles at three o’clock. We can go upstairs and have a great time. I promise … And
all the while, Trump would have his friend’s wife on the speakerphone, listening in.
Previous presidents, and not just Clinton, have of course lacked scruples. What was, to
many of the people who knew Trump well, much more confounding was that he had
managed to win this election, and arrive at this ultimate accomplishment, wholly lacking
what in some obvious sense must be the main requirement of the job, what neuroscientists
would call executive function. He had somehow won the race for president, but his brain
seemed incapable of performing what would be essential tasks in his new job. He had no
ability to plan and organize and pay attention and switch focus; he had never been able to
tailor his behavior to what the goals at hand reasonably required. On the most basic level,
he simply could not link cause and effect.
The charge that Trump colluded with the Russians to win the election, which he
scoffed at, was, in the estimation of some of his friends, a perfect example of his inability
to connect the dots. Even if he hadn’t personally conspired with the Russians to fix the
election, his efforts to curry favor with, of all people, Vladimir Putin had no doubt left a
trail of alarming words and deeds likely to have enormous political costs.
Shortly after the election, his friend Ailes told him, with some urgency, “You’ve got to
get right on Russia.” Even exiled from Fox News, Ailes still maintained a fabled
intelligence network. He warned Trump of potentially damaging material coming his way.
“You need to take this seriously, Donald.”
“Jared has this,” said a happy Trump. “It’s all worked out.”
* * *
Trump Tower, next door to Tiffany and now headquarters of a populist revolution,
suddenly seemed like an alien spaceship—the Death Star—on Fifth Avenue. As the great
and good and ambitious, as well as angry protesters and the curious hoi polloi, began
beating a path to the next president’s door, mazelike barricades were hurriedly thrown up
to shield him.
The Pre-Election Presidential Transition Act of 2010 established funding for
presidential nominees to start the process of vetting thousands of candidates for jobs in a
new administration, codifying policies that would determine the early actions of a new
White House, and preparing for the handoff of bureaucratic responsibilities on January 20.
During the campaign, New Jersey governor Chris Christie, the nominal head of the Trump
transition office, had to forcefully tell the candidate that he couldn’t redirect these funds,
that the law required him to spend the money and plan for a transition—even one he did
not expect to need. A frustrated Trump said he didn’t want to hear any more about it.
The day after the election, Trump’s close advisers—suddenly eager to be part of a
process that almost everybody had ignored—immediately began blaming Christie for a
lack of transition preparations. Hurriedly, the bare-bones transition team moved from
downtown Washington to Trump Tower.
This was certainly some of the most expensive real estate ever occupied by a transition
team (and, for that matter, a presidential campaign). And that was part of the point. It sent
a Trump-style message: we’re not only outsiders, but we’re more powerful than you
insiders. Richer. More famous. With better real estate.
And, of course, it was personalized: his name, fabulously, was on the door. Upstairs
was his triplex apartment, vastly larger than the White House living quarters. Here was his
private office, which he’d occupied since the 1980s. And here were the campaign and now
transition floors—firmly in his orbit and not that of Washington and the “swamp.”
Trump’s instinct in the face of his unlikely, if not preposterous, success was the
opposite of humility. It was, in some sense, to rub everybody’s face in it. Washington
insiders, or would-be insiders, would have to come to him. Trump Tower immediately
upstaged the White House. Everybody who came to see the president-elect was
acknowledging, or accepting, an outsider government. Trump forced them to endure what
was gleefully called by insiders the “perp walk” in front of press and assorted gawkers. An
act of obeisance, if not humiliation.
The otherworldly sense of Trump Tower helped obscure the fact that few in the thin
ranks of Trump’s inner circle, with their overnight responsibility for assembling a
government, had almost any relevant experience. Nobody had a political background.
Nobody had a policy background. Nobody had a legislative background.
Politics is a network business, a who-you-know business. But unlike other presidentselect—all
of whom invariably suffered from their own management defects—Trump did
not have a career’s worth of political and government contacts to call on. He hardly even
had his own political organization. For most of the last eighteen months on the road, it had
been, at its core, a three-person enterprise: his campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski
(until he was forced out a month before the Republican National Convention); his
spokesperson-bodyperson-intern, the campaign’s first hire, twenty-six-year-old Hope
Hicks; and Trump himself. Lean and mean and gut instincts—the more people you had to
deal with, Trump found, the harder it was to turn the plane around and get home to bed at
night.
The professional team—although in truth there was hardly a political professional
among them—that had joined the campaign in August was a last-ditch bid to avoid
hopeless humiliation. But these were people he’d worked with for just a few months.
Reince Priebus, getting ready to shift over from the RNC to the White House, noted,
with alarm, how often Trump offered people jobs on the spot, many of whom he had never
met before, for positions whose importance Trump did not particularly understand.
Ailes, a veteran of the Nixon, Reagan, and Bush 41 White Houses, was growing
worried by the president-elect’s lack of immediate focus on a White House structure that
could serve and protect him. He tried to impress on Trump the ferocity of the opposition
that would greet him.
“You need a son of a bitch as your chief of staff. And you need a son of a bitch who
knows Washington,” Ailes told Trump not long after the election. “You’ll want to be your
own son of a bitch, but you don’t know Washington.” Ailes had a suggestion: “Speaker
Boehner.” (John Boehner had been the Speaker of the House until he was forced out in a
Tea Party putsch in 2011.)
“Who’s that?” asked Trump.
Everybody in Trump’s billionaire circle, concerned about his contempt for other
people’s expertise, tried to impress upon him the importance of the people, the many
people, he would need with him in the White House, people who understood Washington.
Your people are more important than your policies. Your people are your policies.
“Frank Sinatra was wrong,” said David Bossie, one of Trump’s longtime political
advisers. “If you can make it in New York, you can’t necessarily make it in Washington.”
* * *
The nature of the role of the modern chief of staff is a focus of much White House
scholarship. As much as the president himself, the chief of staff determines how the White
House and executive branch—which employs 4 million people, including 1.3 million
people in the armed services—will run.
The job has been construed as deputy president, or chief operating officer, or even
prime minister. Larger-than-life chiefs have included Richard Nixon’s H. R. Haldeman
and Alexander Haig; Gerald Ford’s Donald Rumsfeld and Dick Cheney; Jimmy Carter’s
Hamilton Jordan; Ronald Reagan’s James Baker; George H. W. Bush’s return of James
Baker; Bill Clinton’s Leon Panetta, Erskine Bowles, and John Podesta; George W. Bush’s
Andrew Card; and Barack Obama’s Rahm Emanuel and Bill Daley. Anyone studying the
position would conclude that a stronger chief of staff is better than a weaker one, and a
chief of staff with a history in Washington and the federal government is better than an
outsider.
Donald Trump had little, if any, awareness of the history of or the thinking about this
role. Instead, he substituted his own management style and experience. For decades, he
had relied on longtime retainers, cronies, and family. Even though Trump liked to portray
his business as an empire, it was actually a discrete holding company and boutique
enterprise, catering more to his peculiarities as proprietor and brand representative than to
any bottom line or other performance measures.
His sons, Don Jr. and Eric—jokingly behind their backs known to Trump insiders as
Uday and Qusay, after the sons of Saddam Hussein—wondered if there couldn’t somehow
be two parallel White House structures, one dedicated to their father’s big-picture views,
personal appearances, and salesmanship and the other concerned with day-to-day
management issues. In this construct, they saw themselves tending to the day-to-day
operations.
One of Trump’s early ideas was to recruit his friend Tom Barrack—part of his kitchen
cabinet of real estate tycoons including Steven Roth and Richard Lefrak—and make him
chief of staff.
Barrack, the grandson of Lebanese immigrants, is a starstruck real estate investor of
legendary acumen who owns Michael Jackson’s former oddball paradise, Neverland
Ranch. With Jeffrey Epstein—the New York financier who would become a tabloid
regular after a guilty plea to one count of soliciting prostitution that sent him to jail in
2008 in Palm Beach for thirteen months—Trump and Barrack were a 1980s and ’90s set
of nightlife Musketeers.
The founder and CEO of the private equity firm Colony Capital, Barrack became a
billionaire making investments in distress debt investments in real estate around the world,
including helping to bail out his friend Donald Trump. More recently, he had helped bail
out his friend’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner.
He watched with amusement Trump’s eccentric presidential campaign and brokered the
deal to have Paul Manafort replace Corey Lewandowski after Lewandowski fell out of
favor with Kushner. Then, as confounded as everyone else by the campaign’s continuing
successes, Barrack introduced the future president in warm and personal terms at the
Republican National Convention in July (at odds with its otherwise dark and belligerent
tone).
It was Trump’s perfect fantasy that his friend Tom—an organizational whiz fully aware
of his friend’s lack of interest in day-to-day management—would sign on to run the White
House. This was Trump’s instant and convenient solution to the unforeseen circumstance
of suddenly being president: to do it with his business mentor, confidant, investor, and
friend, someone whom acquaintances of the two men describe as “being one of the best
Donald handlers.” In the Trump circle this was called the “two amigos” plan. (Epstein,
who remained close to Barrack, had been whitewashed out of the Trump biography.)
Barrack, among the few people whose abilities Trump, a reflexive naysayer, didn’t
question, could, in Trump’s hopeful view, really get things running smoothly and let
Trump be Trump. It was, on Trump’s part, an uncharacteristic piece of self-awareness:
Donald Trump might not know what he didn’t know, but he knew Tom Barrack knew. He
would run the business and Trump would sell the product—making American great again.
#MAGA.
For Barrack, as for everybody around Trump, the election result was a kind of beyondbelief
lottery-winning circumstance—your implausible friend becoming president. But
Barrack, even after countless pleading and cajoling phone calls from Trump, finally had to
disappoint his friend, telling him “I’m just too rich.” He would never be able to untangle
his holdings and interests—including big investments in the Middle East—in a way that
would satisfy ethics watchdogs. Trump was unconcerned or in denial about his own
business conflicts, but Barrack saw nothing but hassle and cost for himself. Also, Barrack,
on his fourth marriage, had no appetite for having his colorful personal life—often, over
the years, conducted with Trump—become a public focus.
* * *
Trump’s fallback was his son-in-law. On the campaign, after months of turmoil and
outlandishness (if not to Trump, to most others, including his family), Kushner had
stepped in and become his effective body man, hovering nearby, speaking only when
spoken to, but then always offering a calming and flattering view. Corey Lewandowski
called Jared the butler. Trump had come to believe that his son-in-law, in part because he
seemed to understand how to stay out of his way, was uniquely sagacious.
In defiance of law and tone, and everybody’s disbelieving looks, the president seemed
intent on surrounding himself in the White House with his family. The Trumps, all of them
—except for his wife, who, mystifyingly, was staying in New York—were moving in, all
of them set to assume responsibilities similar to their status in the Trump Organization,
without anyone apparently counseling against it.
Finally, it was the right-wing diva and Trump supporter Ann Coulter who took the
president-elect aside and said, “Nobody is apparently telling you this. But you can’t. You
just can’t hire your children.”
Trump continued to insist that he had every right to his family’s help, while at the same
time asking for understanding. This is family, he said—“It’s a leettle, leettle tricky.” His
staffers understood not only the inherent conflicts and difficult legal issues in having
Trump’s son-in-law run the White House, but that it would become, even more than it
already was, family first for Trump. After a great deal of pressure, he at least agreed not to
make his son-in-law the chief of staff—not officially, anyway.
* * *
If not Barrack or Kushner, then, Trump thought the job should probably go to New Jersey
governor Chris Christie, who, with Rudy Giuliani, comprised the sum total of his circle of
friends with actual political experience.
Christie, like most Trump allies, fell in and out of favor. In the final weeks of the
campaign, Trump contemptuously measured Christie’s increasing distance from his losing
enterprise, and then, with victory, his eagerness to get back in.
Trump and Christie went back to Trump’s days trying—and failing—to become an
Atlantic City gaming mogul. The Atlantic City gaming mogul. (Trump had long been
competitive with and in awe of the Las Vegas gaming mogul Steve Wynn, whom Trump
would name finance chairman of the RNC.) Trump had backed Christie as he rose through
New Jersey politics. He admired Christie’s straight-talk style, and for a while, as Christie
anticipated his own presidential run in 2012 and 2013—and as Trump was looking for a
next chapter for himself with the fading of The Apprentice, his reality TV franchise—
Trump even wondered whether he might be a vice presidential possibility for Christie.
Early in the campaign, Trump said he wouldn’t have run against Christie but for the
Bridgegate scandal (which erupted when Christie’s associates closed traffic lanes on the
George Washington Bridge to undermine the mayor of a nearby town who was a Christie
opponent, and which Trump privately justified as “just New Jersey hardball”). When
Christie dropped out of the race in February 2016 and signed on with the Trump
campaign, he endured a torrent of ridicule for supporting his friend, whom he believed had
promised him a clear track to the VP slot.
It had personally pained Trump not to be able to give it to him. But if the Republican
establishment had not wanted Trump, they had not wanted Christie almost as much. So
Christie got the job of leading the transition and the implicit promise of a central job—
attorney general or chief of staff.
But when he was the federal prosecutor in New Jersey, Christie had sent Jared’s father,
Charles Kushner, to jail in 2005. Charlie Kushner, pursued by the feds for an income tax
cheat, set up a scheme with a prostitute to blackmail his brother-in-law, who was planning
to testify against him.
Various accounts, mostly offered by Christie himself, make Jared the vengeful hatchet
man in Christie’s aborted Trump administration career. It was a kind of perfect sweetrevenge
story: the son of the wronged man (or, in this case—there’s little dispute—the
guilty-as-charged man) uses his power over the man who wronged his family. But other
accounts offer a subtler and in a way darker picture. Jared Kushner, like sons-in-law
everywhere, tiptoes around his father-in-law, carefully displacing as little air as possible:
the massive and domineering older man, the reedy and pliant younger one. In the revised
death-of-Chris-Christie story, it is not the deferential Jared who strikes back, but—in some
sense even more satisfying for the revenge fantasy—Charlie Kushner himself who harshly
demands his due. It was his daughter-in-law who held the real influence in the Trump
circle, who delivered the blow. Ivanka told her father that Christie’s appointment as chief
of staff or to any other high position would be extremely difficult for her and her family,
and it would be best that Christie be removed from the Trump orbit altogether.
* * *
Bannon was the heavy of the organization. Trump, who seemed awestruck by Bannon’s
conversation—a mix of insults, historical riffs, media insights, right-wing bons mots, and
motivational truisms—now began suggesting Bannon to his circle of billionaires as chief
of staff, only to have this notion soundly ridiculed and denounced. But Trump pronounced
many people in favor of it anyway.
In the weeks leading up to the election, Trump had labeled Bannon a flatterer for his
certainty that Trump would win. But now he had come to credit Bannon with something
like mystical powers. And in fact Bannon, with no prior political experience, was the only
Trump insider able to offer a coherent vision of Trump’s populism—aka Trumpism.
The anti-Bannon forces—which included almost every non-Tea Party Republican—
were quick to react. Murdoch, a growing Bannon nemesis, told Trump that Bannon would
be a dangerous choice. Joe Scarborough, the former congressman and cohost of MSNBC’s
Morning Joe, a favorite Trump show, privately told Trump “Washington will go up in
flames” if Bannon became chief of staff, and, beginning a running theme, publicly
denigrated Bannon on the show.
In fact, Bannon presented even bigger problems than his politics: he was profoundly
disorganized, seemingly on the spectrum given what captured his single-minded focus to
the disregard of everything else. Might he be the worst manager who ever lived? He
might. He seemed incapable of returning a phone call. He answered emails in one word—
partly a paranoia about email, but even more a controlling crypticness. He kept assistants
and minders at constant bay. You couldn’t really make an appointment with Bannon, you
just had to show up. And somehow, his own key lieutenant, Alexandra Preate, a
conservative fundraiser and PR woman, was as disorganized as he was. After three
marriages, Bannon lived his bachelor’s life on Capitol Hill in a row house known as the
Breitbart Embassy that doubled as the Breitbart office—the life of a messy party. No sane
person would hire Steven Bannon for a job that included making the trains run on time.
Hence, Reince Priebus.
* * *
For the Hill, he was the only reasonable chief among the contenders, and he quickly
became the subject of intense lobbying by House Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate Majority
Leader Mitch McConnell. If they were going to have to deal with an alien like Donald
Trump, then best they do it with the help of a member of their own kind.
Priebus, forty-five, was neither politician nor policy wonk nor strategist. He was
political machine worker, one of the oldest professions. A fundraiser.
A working-class kid originally from New Jersey and then Wisconsin, at thirty-two he
made his first and last run for elective office: a failed bid for Wisconsin state senate. He
became the chairman of the state party and then the general counsel of the Republican
National Committee. In 2011 he stepped up to chairmanship of the RNC. Priebus’s
political cred came from appeasing the Tea Party in Wisconsin, and his association with
Wisconsin governor Scott Walker, a rising Republican star (and, briefly—very briefly—
the 2016 front-runner).
With significant parts of the Republican Party inalterably opposed to Trump, and with
an almost universal belief within the party that Trump would go down to ignominious
defeat, taking the party with him, Priebus was under great pressure after Trump captured
the nomination to shift resources down the ticket and even to abandon the Trump
campaign entirely.
Convinced himself that Trump was hopeless, Priebus nevertheless hedged his bets. The
fact that he did not abandon Trump entirely became a possible margin of victory and made
Priebus something of a hero (equally, in the Kellyanne Conway version, if they had lost,
he would have been a reasonable target). He became the default choice for chief.
And yet his entry into the Trump inner circle caused Priebus his share of uncertainty
and bewilderment. He came out of his first long meeting with Trump thinking it had been
a disconcertingly weird experience. Trump talked nonstop and constantly repeated
himself.
“Here’s the deal,” a close Trump associate told Priebus. “In an hour meeting with him
you’re going to hear fifty-four minutes of stories and they’re going to be the same stories
over and over again. So you have to have one point to make and you have to pepper it in
whenever you can.”
The Priebus appointment as chief of staff, announced in mid-November, also put
Bannon on a coequal level. Trump was falling back on his own natural inclinations to let
nobody have real power. Priebus, even with the top job, would be a weaker sort of figure,
in the traditional mold of most Trump lieutenants over the years. The choice also worked
well for the other would-be chiefs. Tom Barrack could easily circumvent Priebus and
continue to speak directly to Trump. Jared Kushner’s position as son-in-law and soon top
aide would not be impeded. And Steve Bannon, reporting directly to Trump, remained the
undisputed voice of Trumpism in the White House.
There would be, in other words, one chief of staff in name—the unimportant one—and
various others, more important, in practice, ensuring both chaos and Trump’s own
undisputed independence.
Jim Baker, chief of staff for both Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush and almost
everybody’s model for managing the West Wing, advised Priebus not to take the job.
* * *
The transmogrification of Trump from joke candidate, to whisperer for a disaffected
demographic, to risible nominee, to rent-in-the-fabric-of-time president-elect, did not
inspire in him any larger sense of sober reflection. After the shock of it, he immediately
seemed to rewrite himself as the inevitable president.
One instance of his revisionism, and of the new stature he now seemed to assume as
president, involved the lowest point of the campaign—the Billy Bush tape.
His explanation, in an off-the-record conversation with a friendly cable anchor, was
that it “really wasn’t me.”
The anchor acknowledged how unfair it was to be characterized by a single event.
“No,” said Trump, “it wasn’t me. I’ve been told by people who understand this stuff
about how easy it is to alter these things and put in voices and completely different
people.”
He was the winner and now expected to be the object of awe, fascination, and favor.
He expected this to be binary: a hostile media would turn into a fannish one.
And yet here he was, the winner who was treated with horror and depredations by a
media that in the past, as a matter of course and protocol, could be depended on to shower
lavish deference on an incoming president no matter who he was. (Trump’s shortfall of
three million votes continued to rankle and was a subject best avoided.) It was nearly
incomprehensible to him that the same people—that is, the media—who had violently
criticized him for saying he might dispute the election result were now calling him
illegitimate.
Trump was not a politician who could parse factions of support and opprobrium; he
was a salesman who needed to make a sale. “I won. I am the winner. I am not the loser,”
he repeated, incredulously, like a mantra.
Bannon described Trump as a simple machine. The On switch was full of flattery, the
Off switch full of calumny. The flattery was dripping, slavish, cast in ultimate
superlatives, and entirely disconnected from reality: so-and-so was the best, the most
incredible, the ne plus ultra, the eternal. The calumny was angry, bitter, resentful, ever a
casting out and closing of the iron door.
This was the nature of Trump’s particular salesmanship. His strategic belief was that
there was no reason not to heap excessive puffery on a prospect. But if the prospect was
ruled out as a buyer, there was no reason not to heap scorn and lawsuits on him or her.
After all, if they don’t respond to sucking up, they might respond to piling on. Bannon felt
—perhaps with overconfidence—that Trump could be easily switched on and off.
Against the background of a mortal war of wills—with the media, the Democrats, and
the swamp—that Bannon was encouraging him to wage, Trump could also be courted. In
some sense, he wanted nothing so much as to be courted.
Amazon’s Jeff Bezos, the owner of the Washington Post, which had become one of the
many Trump media bêtes noires in the media world, nevertheless took pains to reach out
not only to the presidentelect but to his daughter Ivanka. During the campaign, Trump said
Amazon was getting “away with murder taxwise” and that if he won, “Oh, do they have
problems.” Now Trump was suddenly praising Bezos as “a top-level genius.” Elon Musk,
in Trump Tower, pitched Trump on the new administration’s joining him in his race to
Mars, which Trump jumped at. Stephen Schwarzman, the head of the Blackstone Group—
and a Kushner friend—offered to organize a business council for Trump, which Trump
embraced. Anna Wintour, the Vogue editor and fashion industry queen, had hoped to be
named America’s ambassador to the UK under Obama and, when that didn’t happen,
closely aligned herself with Hillary Clinton. Now Wintour arrived at Trump Tower (but
refused to do the perp walk) and suggested that she become Trump’s ambassador to the
Court of St. James’s. And Trump was inclined to entertain the idea. (“Fortunately,” said
Bannon, “there was no chemistry.”)
On December 14, a high-level delegation from Silicon Valley came to Trump Tower to
meet the president-elect, though Trump had repeatedly criticized the tech industry
throughout the campaign. Later that afternoon, Trump called Rupert Murdoch, who asked
him how the meeting had gone.
“Oh, great, just great,” said Trump. “Really, really good. These guys really need my
help. Obama was not very favorable to them, too much regulation. This is really an
opportunity for me to help them.”
“Donald,” said Murdoch, “for eight years these guys had Obama in their pocket. They
practically ran the administration. They don’t need your help.”
“Take this H-1B visa issue. They really need these H-1B visas.”
Murdoch suggested that taking a liberal approach to H-1B visas might be hard to
square with his immigration promises. But Trump seemed unconcerned, assuring
Murdoch, “We’ll figure it out.”
“What a fucking idiot,” said Murdoch, shrugging, as he got off the phone.
* * *
Ten days before Donald Trump’s inauguration as the forty-fifth president, a group of
young Trump staffers—the men in regulation Trump suits and ties, the women in the
Trump-favored look of high boots, short skirts, and shoulder-length hair—were watching
President Barack Obama give his farewell speech as it streamed on a laptop in the
transition offices.
“Mr. Trump said he’s never once listened to a whole Obama speech,” said one of the
young people authoritatively.
“They’re so boring,” said another.
While Obama bade his farewell, preparations for Trump’s first press conference since
the election, to be held the next day, were under way down the hall. The plan was to make
a substantial effort to show that the president-elect’s business conflicts would be addressed
in a formal and considered way.
Up until now, Trump’s view was that he’d been elected because of those conflicts—his
business savvy, connections, experience, and brand—not in spite of them, and that it was
ludicrous for anyone to think he could untangle himself even if he wanted to. Indeed, to
reporters and anyone else who would listen, Kellyanne Conway offered on Trump’s behalf
a self-pitying defense about how great his sacrifice had already been.
After fanning the flames of his intention to disregard rules regarding conflicts of
interest, now, in a bit of theater, he would take a generous new tack. Standing in the lobby
of Trump Towner next to a table stacked high with document folders and legal papers, he
would describe the vast efforts that had been made to do the impossible and how,
henceforth, he would be exclusively focused on the nation’s business.
But suddenly this turned out to be quite beside the point.
Fusion GPS, an opposition research company (founded by former journalists, it
provided information to private clients), had been retained by Democratic Party interests.
Fusion had hired Christopher Steele, a former British spy, in June 2016, to help investigate
Trump’s repeated brags about his relationship with Vladimir Putin and the nature of
Trump’s relationship with the Kremlin. With reports from Russian sources, many
connected to Russian intelligence, Steele assembled a damaging report—now dubbed the
“dossier”—suggesting that Donald Trump was being blackmailed by the Putin
government. In September, Steele briefed reporters from the New York Times, the
Washington Post, Yahoo! News, the New Yorker, and CNN. All declined to use this
unverified information, with its unclear provenance, especially given that it was about an
unlikely election winner.
But the day before the scheduled press conference, CNN broke details of the Steele
dossier. Almost immediately thereafter, Buzzfeed published the entire report—an itemized
bacchanal of beyond-the-pale behavior.
On the verge of Trump’s ascendancy to the presidency, the media, with its singular
voice on Trump matters, was propounding a conspiracy of vast proportions. The theory,
suddenly presented as just this side of a likelihood, was that the Russians had suborned
Donald Trump during a trip to Moscow with a crude blackmail scheme involving
prostitutes and videotaped sexual acts pushing new boundaries of deviance (including
“golden showers”) with prostitutes and videotaped sex acts. The implicit conclusion: a
compromised Trump had conspired with the Russians to steal the election and to install
him in the White House as Putin’s dupe.
If this was true, then the nation stood at one of the most extraordinary moments in the
history of democracy, international relations, and journalism.
If it was not true—and it was hard to fathom a middle ground—then it would seem to
support the Trump view (and the Bannon view) that the media, in also quite a dramatic
development in the history of democracy, was so blinded by an abhorrence and revulsion,
both ideological and personal, for the democratically elected leader that it would pursue
any avenue to take him down. Mark Hemingway, in the conservative, but anti-Trump,
Weekly Standard, argued the novel paradox of two unreliable narrators dominating
American public life: the president-elect spoke with little information and frequently no
factual basis, while “the frame the media has chosen to embrace is that everything the man
does is, by default, unconstitutional or an abuse of power.”
On the afternoon of January 11, these two opposing perceptions faced off in the lobby
of Trump Tower: the political antichrist, a figure of dark but buffoonish scandal, in the
pocket of America’s epochal adversary, versus the would-be revolutionary-mob media,
drunk on virtue, certainty, and conspiracy theories. Each represented, for the other side, a
wholly discredited “fake” version of reality.
If these character notes seemed comic-book in style, that was exactly how the press
conference unfolded.
First Trump’s encomiums to himself:
“I will be the greatest jobs producer that God ever created… .”
A smattering of the issues before him:
“Veterans with a little cancer can’t see a doctor until they are terminal… .”
Then the incredulity:
“I was in Russia years ago with the Ms. Universe contest—did very very well—I tell
everyone be careful, because you don’t want to see yourself on television—cameras all
over the place. And again, not just Russia, all over. So would anyone really believe that
story? I’m also very much of a germaphobe, by the way. Believe me.”
Then the denial:
“I have no deals in Russia, I have no deal that could happen in Russia because we’ve
stayed away, and I have no loans with Russia. I have to say one thing … Over the
weekend I was offered two billion dollars to do a deal in Dubai and I turned it down. I
didn’t have to turn it down, because as you know I have a no-conflict situation as
president. I didn’t know about that until three months ago but it’s a nice thing to have. But
I didn’t want to take advantage of something. I have a no-conflict-of-interest provision as
president. I could actually run my business, run my business and run government at the
same time. I don’t like the way that looks but I would be able to do that if I wanted to. I
could run the Trump organization, a great, great company, and I could run the country, but
I don’t want to do that.”
Then the direct attack on CNN, his nemesis:
“Your organization is terrible. Your organization is terrible… . Quiet … quiet … don’t
be rude … Don’t be… . No, I’m not going to give you a question … I’m not going to give
you a question… . You are fake news… .”
And in summation:
“That report first of all should never have been printed because it’s not worth the paper
it’s printed on. I will tell you that should never ever happen. Twenty-two million accounts
were hacked by China. That’s because we have no defense, because we’re run by people
who don’t know what they’re doing. Russia will have far greater respect for our country
when I’m leading it. And not just Russia, China, which has taken total advantage of us.
Russia, China, Japan, Mexico, all countries will respect us far more, far more than they do
under past administrations… .”
Not only did the president-elect wear his deep and bitter grievances on his sleeve, but it
was now clear that the fact of having been elected president would not change his
unfiltered, apparently uncontrollable, utterly shoot-from-the-hip display of wounds,
resentments, and ire.
“I think he did a fantastic job,” said Kellyanne Conway after the news conference. “But
the media won’t say that. They never will.”
3
DAY ONE
J
ared Kushner at thirty-six prided himself on his ability to get along with older men. By
the time of Donald Trump’s inauguration he had become the designated intermediary
between his father-in-law and the establishment, such as it was—more moderate
Republicans, corporate interests, the New York rich. Having a line to Kushner seemed to
offer an alarmed elite a handle on a volatile situation.
Several of his father-in-law’s circle of confidants also confided in Kushner—often
confiding their worries about their friend, the presidentelect.
“I give him good advice about what he needs to do and for three hours the next day he
does it, and then goes hopelessly off script,” complained one of them to Trump’s son-inlaw.
Kushner, whose pose was to take things in and not give much back, said he
understood the frustration.
These powerful figures tried to convey a sense of real-world politics, which they all
claimed to comprehend at some significantly higher threshold than the soon-to-be
president. They were all concerned that Trump did not understand what he was up against.
That there was simply not enough method to his madness.
Each of these interlocutors provided Kushner with something of a tutorial on the
limitations of presidential power—that Washington was as much designed to frustrate and
undermine presidential power as to accommodate it.
“Don’t let him piss off the press, don’t let him piss off the Republican Party, don’t
threaten congressmen because they will fuck you if you do, and most of all don’t let him
piss off the intel community,” said one national Republican figure to Kushner. “If you fuck
with the intel community they will figure out a way to get back at you and you’ll have two
or three years of a Russian investigation, and every day something else will leak out.”
A vivid picture was painted for the preternaturally composed Kushner of spies and
their power, of how secrets were passed out of the intelligence community to former
members of the community or to other allies in Congress or even to persons in the
executive branch and then to the press.
One of Kushner’s now-frequent wise-men callers was Henry Kissinger. Kissinger, who
had been a front-row witness when the bureaucracy and intelligence community revolted
against Richard Nixon, outlined the kinds of mischief, and worse, that the new
administration could face.
“Deep state,” the left-wing and right-wing notion of an intelligence-network
permanent-government conspiracy, part of the Breitbart lexicon, became the Trump team
term of art: he’s poked the deep state bear.
Names were put to this: John Brennan, the CIA director; James Clapper, the director of
national intelligence; Susan Rice, the outgoing National Security Advisor; and Ben
Rhodes, Rice’s deputy and an Obama favorite.
Movie scenarios were painted: a cabal of intelligence community myrmidons, privy to
all sorts of damning evidence of Trump’s recklessness and dubious dealings, would, with a
strategic schedule of wounding, embarrassing, and distracting leaks, make it impossible
for the Trump White House to govern.
What Kushner was told, again and again, is that the president had to make amends. He
had to reach out. He had to mollify. These were forces not to be trifled with was said with
utmost gravity.
Throughout the campaign and even more forcefully after the election, Trump had
targeted the American intelligence community—the CIA, FBI, NSC, and, altogether,
seventeen separate intelligence agencies—as incompetent and mendacious. (His message
was “on auto pilot,” said one aide.) Among the various and plentiful Trump mixed
messages at odds with conservative orthodoxy, this was a particularly juicy one. His case
against American intelligence included its faulty information about weapons of mass
destruction that preceded the Iraq war, a litany of Obama Afghanistan-Iraq-Syria-Libya
and other war-related intelligence failures, and, more recently, but by no means least of all,
intelligence leaks regarding his purported Russian relationships and subterfuges.
Trump’s criticism seemed to align him with the left in its half century of making a
bogeyman of American intelligence agencies. But, in quite some reversal, the liberals and
the intelligence community were now aligned in their horror of Donald Trump. Much of
the left—which had resoundingly and scathingly rejected the intelligence community’s
unambiguous assessment of Edward Snowden as a betrayer of national secrets rather than
a well-intentioned whistle-blower—now suddenly embraced the intelligence community’s
authority in its suggestion of Trump’s nefarious relationships with the Russians.
Trump was dangerously out in the cold.
Hence, Kushner thought it was sensible to make a reach-out to the CIA among the first
orders of the new administration’s business.
* * *
Trump did not enjoy his own inauguration. He had hoped for a big blowout. Tom Barrack,
the would-be showman—in addition to Michael Jackson’s Neverland Ranch, he had
bought Miramax Pictures from Disney with the actor Rob Lowe—may have declined the
chief of staff job, but, as part of his shadow involvement with his friend’s White House, he
stepped up to raise the money for the inaugural and to create an event that—seemingly
quite at odds with the new president’s character, and with Steve Bannon’s wish for a nofrills
populist inauguration—he promised would have a “soft sensuality” and “poetic
cadence.” But Trump, imploring friends to use their influence to nail some of the A-level
stars who were snubbing the event, started to get angry and hurt that stars were determined
to embarrass him. Bannon, a soothing voice as well as a professional agitator, tried to
argue the dialectical nature of what they had achieved (without using the word
“dialectical”). Because Trump’s success was beyond measure, or certainly beyond all
expectations, the media and the liberals had to justify their own failure, he explained to the
new president.
In the hours before the inauguration, the whole of Washington seemed to be holding its
breath. On the evening before Trump was sworn in, Bob Corker, the Republican senator
from Tennessee and the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, opened his
remarks as the featured speaker at a gathering at the Jefferson Hotel with the existential
question, “Where are things going?” He paused for a moment and then answered, as
though from some deep well of bewilderment, “I have no idea.”
Later that evening, a concert at the Lincoln Memorial, part of an always awkward
effort to import pop culture to Washington, ended up, absent any star power, with Trump
himself taking the stage as the featured act, angrily insisting to aides that he could outdraw
any star.
Dissuaded by his staff from staying at the Trump International Hotel in Washington
and regretting his decision, the president-elect woke up on inaugural morning complaining
about the accommodations at Blair House, the official guest residence across the street
from the White House. Too hot, bad water pressure, bad bed.
His temper did not improve. Throughout the morning, he was visibly fighting with his
wife, who seemed on the verge of tears and would return to New York the next day;
almost every word he addressed to her was sharp and peremptory. Kellyanne Conway had
taken up Melania Trump as a personal PR mission, promoting the new First Lady as a
vital pillar of support for the president and a helpful voice in her own right, and was trying
to convince Trump that she could have an important role in the White House. But, in
general, the Trumps’ relationship was one of those things nobody asked too many
questions about—another mysterious variable in the presidential mood.
At the ceremonial meeting of the soon-to-be-new president and the soon-to-be-old
president at the White House, which took place just before they set off for the swearing-in
ceremony, Trump believed the Obamas acted disdainfully—“very arrogant”—toward him
and Melania. Instead of wearing a game face, going into the inaugural events, the
president-elect wore what some around him had taken to calling his golf face: angry and
pissed off, shoulders hunched, arms swinging, brow furled, lips pursed. This had become
the public Trump—truculent Trump.
An inauguration is supposed to be a love-in. The media gets a new and upbeat story.
For the party faithful, happy times are here again. For the permanent government—the
swamp—it’s a chance to curry favor and seek new advantage. For the country, it’s a
coronation. But Bannon had three messages or themes he kept trying to reinforce with his
boss: his presidency was going to be different—as different as any since Andrew
Jackson’s (he was supplying the less-than-well-read president-elect with Jackson-related
books and quotes); they knew who their enemies were and shouldn’t fall into the trap of
trying to make them their friends, because they wouldn’t be; and so, from day one, they
should consider themselves on a war footing. While this spoke to Trump’s combative
“counterpuncher” side, it was hard on his eager-to-be-liked side. Bannon saw himself as
managing these two impulses, emphasizing the former and explaining to his boss why
having enemies here created friends somewhere else.
In fact, Trump’s aggrieved mood became a perfect match for the Bannon-written
aggrieved inaugural address. Much of the sixteen-minute speech was part of Bannon’s
daily joie de guerre patter—his take-back-the-country America-first, carnage-everywhere
vision for the country. But it actually became darker and more forceful when filtered
through Trump’s disappointment and delivered with his golf face. The administration
purposely began on a tone of menace—a Bannon-driven message to the other side that the
country was about to undergo profound change. Trump’s wounded feelings—his sense of
being shunned and unloved on the very day he became president—helped send that
message. When he came off the podium after delivering his address, he kept repeating,
“Nobody will forget this speech.”
George W. Bush, on the dais, supplied what seemed likely to become the historic
footnote to the Trump address: “That’s some weird shit.”
* * *
Trump, despite his disappointment at Washington’s failure to properly greet and celebrate
him, was, like a good salesman, an optimist. Salesmen, whose primary characteristic and
main asset is their ability to keep selling, constantly recast the world in positive terms.
Discouragement for everyone else is merely the need to improve reality for them.
By the next morning, Trump was soliciting affirmation of his view that the
inauguration had been a great success. “That crowd went all the way back. That were
