of their affiliates, are available on the Morgan Stanley Wealth Management disclosure website at www.morganstanley.com/online/researchdisclosures. For Morgan Stanley specific disclosures,
you may refer to www.morganstanley.com/researchdisclosures.
Each Morgan Stanley Equity Research report is reviewed and approved on behalf of Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC. This review and approval is conducted by the same person who reviews
the Equity Research report on behalf of Morgan Stanley. This could create a conflict of interest.
Other Important Disclosures
Morgan Stanley & Co. International PLC and its affiliates have a significant financial interest in the debt securities of BlackRock Inc., Charles Schwab Corp, E*Trade Financial Corp, Franklin
Resources Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc, Legg Mason Inc., OM Asset Management Plc, Virtus Investment Partners.
As of January 29, 2018, BlackRock Inc., T. Rowe Price Group, Inc. beneficially owned 5% or more of a class of common equity securities of Morgan Stanley.
Morgan Stanley Research policy is to update research reports as and when the Research Analyst and Research Management deem appropriate, based on developments with the issuer, the
sector, or the market that may have a material impact on the research views or opinions stated therein. In addition, certain Research publications are intended to be updated on a regular periodic
basis (weekly/monthly/quarterly/annual) and will ordinarily be updated with that frequency, unless the Research Analyst and Research Management determine that a different publication
schedule is appropriate based on current conditions.
Morgan Stanley is not acting as a municipal advisor and the opinions or views contained herein are not intended to be, and do not constitute, advice within the meaning of Section 975 of the
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
Morgan Stanley produces an equity research product called a Tactical Idea. Views contained in a Tactical Idea on a particular stock may be contrary to the recommendations or views expressed
in research on the same stock. This may be the result of differing time horizons, methodologies, market events, or other factors. For all research available on a particular stock, please contact
your sales representative or go to Matrix at http://www.morganstanley.com/matrix.
Morgan Stanley Research is provided to our clients through our proprietary research portal on Matrix and also distributed electronically by Morgan Stanley to clients. Certain, but not all, Morgan
Stanley Research products are also made available to clients through third-party vendors or redistributed to clients through alternate electronic means as a convenience. For access to all
available Morgan Stanley Research, please contact your sales representative or go to Matrix at http://www.morganstanley.com/matrix.
Any access and/or use of Morgan Stanley Research is subject to Morgan Stanley's Terms of Use (http://www.morganstanley.com/terms.html). By accessing and/or using Morgan Stanley
Research, you are indicating that you have read and agree to be bound by our Terms of Use (http://www.morganstanley.com/terms.html). In addition you consent to Morgan Stanley processing
your personal data and using cookies in accordance with our Privacy Policy and our Global Cookies Policy (http://www.morganstanley.com/privacy_pledge.html), including for the purposes of
setting your preferences and to collect readership data so that we can deliver better and more personalized service and products to you. To find out more information about how Morgan Stanley
processes personal data, how we use cookies and how to reject cookies see our Privacy Policy and our Global Cookies Policy (http://www.morganstanley.com/privacy_pledge.html).
If you do not agree to our Terms of Use and/or if you do not wish to provide your consent to Morgan Stanley processing your personal data or using cookies please do not access our research.
Morgan Stanley Research does not provide individually tailored investment advice. Morgan Stanley Research has been prepared without regard to the circumstances and objectives of those
who receive it. Morgan Stanley recommends that investors independently evaluate particular investments and strategies, and encourages investors to seek the advice of a financial adviser.
The appropriateness of an investment or strategy will depend on an investor's circumstances and objectives. The securities, instruments, or strategies discussed in Morgan Stanley Research
may not be suitable for all investors, and certain investors may not be eligible to purchase or participate in some or all of them. Morgan Stanley Research is not an offer to buy or sell or the
solicitation of an offer to buy or sell any security/instrument or to participate in any particular trading strategy. The value of and income from your investments may vary because of changes
in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, default rates, prepayment rates, securities/instruments prices, market indexes, operational or financial conditions of companies or other factors. There
may be time limitations on the exercise of options or other rights in securities/instruments transactions. Past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance. Estimates of future
performance are based on assumptions that may not be realized. If provided, and unless otherwise stated, the closing price on the cover page is that of the primary exchange for the subject
company's securities/instruments.
The fixed income research analysts, strategists or economists principally responsible for the preparation of Morgan Stanley Research have received compensation based upon various factors,
including quality, accuracy and value of research, firm profitability or revenues (which include fixed income trading and capital markets profitability or revenues), client feedback and competitive
factors. Fixed Income Research analysts', strategists' or economists' compensation is not linked to investment banking or capital markets transactions performed by Morgan Stanley or the
profitability or revenues of particular trading desks.
The Important US Regulatory Disclosures on Subject Companies section in Morgan Stanley Research lists all companies mentioned where Morgan Stanley owns 1% or more of a class of
common equity securities of the companies. For all other companies mentioned in Morgan Stanley Research, Morgan Stanley may have an investment of less than 1% in securities/instruments
or derivatives of securities/instruments of companies and may trade them in ways different from those discussed in Morgan Stanley Research. Employees of Morgan Stanley not involved in
the preparation of Morgan Stanley Research may have investments in securities/instruments or derivatives of securities/instruments of companies mentioned and may trade them in ways
different from those discussed in Morgan Stanley Research. Derivatives may be issued by Morgan Stanley or associated persons.
With the exception of information regarding Morgan Stanley, Morgan Stanley Research is based on public information. Morgan Stanley makes every effort to use reliable, comprehensive
information, but we make no representation that it is accurate or complete. We have no obligation to tell you when opinions or information in Morgan Stanley Research change apart from
when we intend to discontinue equity research coverage of a subject company. Facts and views presented in Morgan Stanley Research have not been reviewed by, and may not reflect information
MORGAN STANLEY RESEARCH 35
M
M
known to, professionals in other Morgan Stanley business areas, including investment banking personnel.
Morgan Stanley Research personnel may participate in company events such as site visits and are generally prohibited from accepting payment by the company of associated expenses unless
pre-approved by authorized members of Research management.
Morgan Stanley may make investment decisions that are inconsistent with the recommendations or views in this report.
To our readers based in Taiwan or trading in Taiwan securities/instruments: Information on securities/instruments that trade in Taiwan is distributed by Morgan Stanley Taiwan Limited (MSTL).
Such information is for your reference only. The reader should independently evaluate the investment risks and is solely responsible for their investment decisions. Morgan Stanley Research
may not be distributed to the public media or quoted or used by the public media without the express written consent of Morgan Stanley. Any non-customer reader within the scope of Article
7-1 of the Taiwan Stock Exchange Recommendation Regulations accessing and/or receiving Morgan Stanley Research is not permitted to provide Morgan Stanley Research to any third party
(including but not limited to related parties, affiliated companies and any other third parties) or engage in any activities regarding Morgan Stanley Research which may create or give the
appearance of creating a conflict of interest. Information on securities/instruments that do not trade in Taiwan is for informational purposes only and is not to be construed as a recommendation
or a solicitation to trade in such securities/instruments. MSTL may not execute transactions for clients in these securities/instruments.
Morgan Stanley is not incorporated under PRC law and the research in relation to this report is conducted outside the PRC. Morgan Stanley Research does not constitute an offer to sell or
the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities in the PRC. PRC investors shall have the relevant qualifications to invest in such securities and shall be responsible for obtaining all relevant
approvals, licenses, verifications and/or registrations from the relevant governmental authorities themselves. Neither this report nor any part of it is intended as, or shall constitute, provision
of any consultancy or advisory service of securities investment as defined under PRC law. Such information is provided for your reference only.
Morgan Stanley Research is disseminated in Brazil by Morgan Stanley C.T.V.M. S.A.; in Mexico by Morgan Stanley México, Casa de Bolsa, S.A. de C.V which is regulated by Comision Nacional
Bancaria y de Valores. Paseo de los Tamarindos 90, Torre 1, Col. Bosques de las Lomas Floor 29, 05120 Mexico City; in Japan by Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co., Ltd. and, for Commodities
related research reports only, Morgan Stanley Capital Group Japan Co., Ltd; in Hong Kong by Morgan Stanley Asia Limited (which accepts responsibility for its contents) and by Morgan Stanley
Asia International Limited, Hong Kong Branch; in Singapore by Morgan Stanley Asia (Singapore) Pte. (Registration number 199206298Z) and/or Morgan Stanley Asia (Singapore) Securities Pte
Ltd (Registration number 200008434H), regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore (which accepts legal responsibility for its contents and should be contacted with respect to any
matters arising from, or in connection with, Morgan Stanley Research) and by Morgan Stanley Asia International Limited, Singapore Branch (Registration number T11FC0207F); in Australia to
wholesale clients within the meaning of the Australian Corporations Act by Morgan Stanley Australia Limited A.B.N. 67 003 734 576, holder of Australian financial services license No. 233742,
which accepts responsibility for its contents; in Australia to wholesale clients and retail clients within the meaning of the Australian Corporations Act by Morgan Stanley Wealth Management
Australia Pty Ltd (A.B.N. 19 009 145 555, holder of Australian financial services license No. 240813, which accepts responsibility for its contents; in Korea by Morgan Stanley & Co International
plc, Seoul Branch; in India by Morgan Stanley India Company Private Limited; in Indonesia by PT. Morgan Stanley Sekuritas Indonesia; in Canada by Morgan Stanley Canada Limited, which has
approved of and takes responsibility for its contents in Canada; in Germany by Morgan Stanley Bank AG, Frankfurt am Main and Morgan Stanley Private Wealth Management Limited, Niederlassung
Deutschland, regulated by Bundesanstalt fuer Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (BaFin); in Spain by Morgan Stanley, S.V., S.A., a Morgan Stanley group company, which is supervised by the
Spanish Securities Markets Commission (CNMV) and states that Morgan Stanley Research has been written and distributed in accordance with the rules of conduct applicable to financial
research as established under Spanish regulations; in the US by Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, which accepts responsibility for its contents. Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc, authorized by
the Prudential Regulatory Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulatory Authority, disseminates in the UK research that it has prepared, and approves
solely for the purposes of section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, research which has been prepared by any of its affiliates. RMB Morgan Stanley Proprietary Limited is a
member of the JSE Limited and regulated by the Financial Services Board in South Africa. RMB Morgan Stanley Proprietary Limited is a joint venture owned equally by Morgan Stanley International
Holdings Inc. and RMB Investment Advisory (Proprietary) Limited, which is wholly owned by FirstRand Limited. The information in Morgan Stanley Research is being disseminated by
Morgan Stanley Saudi Arabia, regulated by the Capital Market Authority in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia , and is directed at Sophisticated investors only.
The information in Morgan Stanley Research is being communicated by Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc (DIFC Branch), regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority (the DFSA),
and is directed at Professional Clients only, as defined by the DFSA. The financial products or financial services to which this research relates will only be made available to a customer who
we are satisfied meets the regulatory criteria to be a Professional Client.
The information in Morgan Stanley Research is being communicated by Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc (QFC Branch), regulated by the Qatar Financial Centre Regulatory Authority
(the QFCRA), and is directed at business customers and market counterparties only and is not intended for Retail Customers as defined by the QFCRA.
As required by the Capital Markets Board of Turkey, investment information, comments and recommendations stated here, are not within the scope of investment advisory activity. Investment
advisory service is provided exclusively to persons based on their risk and income preferences by the authorized firms. Comments and recommendations stated here are general in nature. These
opinions may not fit to your financial status, risk and return preferences. For this reason, to make an investment decision by relying solely to this information stated here may not bring about
outcomes that fit your expectations.
The trademarks and service marks contained in Morgan Stanley Research are the property of their respective owners. Third-party data providers make no warranties or representations relating
to the accuracy, completeness, or timeliness of the data they provide and shall not have liability for any damages relating to such data. The Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS) was
developed by and is the exclusive property of MSCI and S&P.
Morgan Stanley Research, or any portion thereof may not be reprinted, sold or redistributed without the written consent of Morgan Stanley.
36
M
M
INDUSTRY COVERAGE: Brokers & Asset Managers
COMPANY (TICKER) RATING (AS OF) PRICE* (01/29/2018)
Michael J. Cyprys, CFA, CPA
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO.N) O (01/03/2018) $35.60
Ares Management, L.P. (ARES.N) E (12/15/2014) $24.50
BlackRock Inc. (BLK.N) O (09/18/2015) $574.42
Charles Schwab Corp (SCHW.N) O (09/26/2016) $54.05
E*Trade Financial Corp (ETFC.O) O (01/03/2018) $52.62
Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN.N) U (03/16/2017) $45.12
Hamilton Lane Incorporated (HLNE.O) E (10/05/2017) $38.31
Invesco (IVZ.N) E (01/03/2018) $37.48
KKR & CO. L.P. (KKR.N) E (02/17/2016) $24.25
Legg Mason Inc. (LM.N) U (10/05/2017) $44.27
LPL Financial Holdings Inc. (LPLA.O) E (01/03/2018) $60.11
Oaktree Capital Group, LLC (OAK.N) O (12/15/2014) $45.30
OM Asset Management Plc (OMAM.N) E (01/26/2016) $18.19
T. Rowe Price Group, Inc. (TROW.O) E (10/05/2017) $117.55
TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD.O) E (09/26/2016) $55.59
The Blackstone Group L.P. (BX.N) O (12/15/2014) $36.56
The Carlyle Group L.P. (CG.O) O (02/17/2016) $25.50
Virtus Investment Partners (VRTS.O) E (06/01/2017) $129.80
Waddell & Reed Financial Inc (WDR.N) U (09/18/2015) $23.18
WisdomTree Investments, Inc. (WETF.O) E (09/18/2015) $12.13
Stock Ratings are subject to change. Please see latest
research for each company.
* Historical prices are not split adjusted.
MORGAN STANLEY RESEARCH 37
© Morgan Stanley 2018
The Americas
Europe
Japan
Asia/Pacific
1585 Broadway
20 Bank Street, Canary Wharf
1-9-7 Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku
1 Austin Road West
New York, NY 10036-8293
London E14 4AD
Tokyo 100-8104
Kowloon
United States
United Kingdom
Japan
Hong Kong
Tel: +1 (1) 212 761 4000
Tel: +44 (0) 20 7 425 8000
Tel: +81 (0) 3 6836 5000
Tel: +852 2848 5200
