2014] CRIME VICTIMS’ RIGHTS 85

More importantly, extending the nght in this fashion will not be
unduly burdensome for federal prosecutors. After the OLC memorandum
was made public, the Department amended the Attorney General
Guidelines for Victim and Witness Assistance to require prosecutors to
make reasonable efforts toward a goal of providing victims with a
meaningful opportunity to offer their views before plea agreements are
formally reached.'** “In circumstances where plea negotiations occur
before a case has been brought, Department policy is that this should
include reasonable consultation prior to the filing of a charging instrument
with the court.”'*° Thus, Department policy already extends pre-charging
rights to victims. The CVRA should be understood as having the same
scope.

OLC also notes that the CVRA right “to be treated with fairness and
with respect for the victim’s dignity and privacy” is a right that could apply
before charges are filed.'!°° Indeed, OLC is forced to concede (as district
courts have recognized) that the “right to be treated with fairness and with
respect for the victim’s dignity and privacy may apply with great force
during an investigation, before any charging instrument has been filed.”'*!

OLC nonetheless maintains that the right to fairness only applies after
charges have been filed. OLC relies on the canon of statutory construction
noscitur a sociis, meaning that words are known by their companions,'? for
its interpretation of the CVRA. OLC argues that because the other seven
enumerated nights are limited to post-charging situations, the eighth nght
should be as well. Of course, this argument assumes that OLC’s
construction of the other seven rights is correct—a point very much in
dispute.’ If, for example, the right to confer applies before charges are
filed, then presumably noscitur a sociis would cut the other way—the right
to fairness should likewise be construed as applying before charges are
filed.

Moreover, OLC omits from its discussion of the fairness provision any
assessment of the CVRA’s purposes. In construing a statute, a court must
consider the “purpose and context” of the statute.°* In describing the
fairness provision, Senator Kyl emphasized that it conferred a “broad”

48 ATTORNEY GENERAL GUIDELINES, supra note 52, at 41-42.

Td. at 41.

5° OLC CVRA Rights Memo, supra note 2, at 10 (quoting 18 U.S.C. § 3771(a)(8)).

>! Td. (quoting United States v. BP Products North America Inc., No. H-07-434, 2008
WL 501321, at *11 (S.D. Tex. Feb. 21, 2008) (internal quotation marks omitted)).

% Id. at 11.

3 See supra Part IIL.A.

4 Kasten v. Saint-Gobain Performance Plastics Corp., 131 S. Ct. 1325, 1331 (2011).

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014064
