&2 Teaching Minds

pharmaceutical company engaged in a hostile takeover of a smaller,
but highly successful, competitor. Students experience the tough ne-
gotiations, the elimination of dedicated and talented individuals, and
the painful shuffling of roles and responsibilities that accompany ma-
jor change in a modern corporation. Students also confront the com-
plicated (and sometimes conflicting) relationship between social re-
sponsibility, legal responsibility, and profit motive, as they witness the
company’s attempt to establish a new research facility in a blighted
town as a consequence of the merger. As students consider each epi-
sode, they critique the actions and reactions of the central characters,
advise them on next steps, and glean lessons related to negotiation,
change management, legal and ethical issues in corporate governance,
and working with other cultures,

STORY 7: SELLING AND IMPLEMENTING SOLUTIONS

Students begin their work as new project managers at a premier event-
planning company, World Class Events. They begin by qualifying
and prioritizing opportunities to propose work to prospective clients,
pitching to senior management which of the proposals should receive
the greatest budget, based on potential profitability, likelihood of win-
ning, and other relevant considerations. They create a project scope
document for the sales effort, first planning and attending a simulated
meeting with event-planning experts to determine a vision for the
event, including risks and open questions for the client. They then en-
gage in a role-play call with the client, introducing World Class Events
and clarifying the project vision.

Of course, the intent of this curriculum is to prepare students to go
out into the business world. So, there is a natural subject orientation.
The subject is business. But after we acknowledge that, everything else
is different. The curriculum was designed with the 12 cognitive pro-
cesses in mind. Let’s see how that was accomplished.

The real issue in learning in any arena of knowledge is getting
better at the cognitive processes that underlie that knowledge. The
processes involved in learning have been with us as long as there have
been humans. School, and subject-based education, is a more recent
invention. To understand how human learning works, we need to
think more deeply about how we can teach these processes.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023808
