gold was going to Viola or Meryl.

This year there seemed to be more parties
than ever. Vanity Fair publisher Edward
Menicheschi staged a staggering six
nights of “CAMPAIGN HOLLYWOOD?
Ermenegildo Zenga and Colin and
Livia Firth hosted an intimate dinner at
the Chateau Marmont to benefit Oxfam
America, Colin’s pet charity. Editor
Graydon Carter and Edward greeted
Cameron Diaz, Kristin Davis, Gary and
Alexandra Oldman and Mia Wasikowska.
In addition, Livia spoke about her ‘Green
Carpet Challenge’ which uses eco-friendly
fabrics for “wear it once” gowns at awards
shows. Get it? Go green on red.

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23

Thursday night boasted 15 events
causing party panic. Here is a brief
rundown of seven.

At The Hollywood Reporters Nominee
Night, editor Janice Min and publisher
Lynne Segall greeted the power brokers.
With ballots in, competing studios
cordially mingled in the Mayor's
backyard. Owen Wilson slipped in the
back doorand hung with MichaelSheen ‘\§
and producer Letty Aronson. Producers
Kathy Kennedy and Frank Marshall
chatted with DreamWorks’ partner Stacey
Snyder, producer Graham King and Emily
Mortimer. Fox’s Tom Rothman and Jim
Gianopulos compared notes with Focus’
James Shamus. Young directors Drake
Doremus (Like Crazy), Sean Durkin (Martha
Marcy May Marlene) and Oscar nominee
and Spirit Award winner J.C. Chandor
(Margin Call) drank at the bar. Breakout
directors Nick Jarecki (Arbitrage), Zal
Batmanglij (Sound of My Voice and
The East) and Jay Duplass (Jeff Who
Lives at Home) dreamed about their
future nominations. Aaron Sorkin,
Piers Morgan and Lawrence O’Donnell
handicapped Romney vs. Obama as
Brooklyn Decker sashayed by.

Urs Fisher’s exhibition Beds & Problem
Paintings featured two bed sculptures at
Larry Gagosian’s Gallery followed by his
private dinner at Mr. Chow’s. Art lovers Vera
Wang, Russell Simmons, Steve Martin, Jean
Pigozzi and John Waters attended.

The US-Ireland Alliance honored
nominees Hugo screenwriter John Logan,
Bridesmaids star Melissa McCarthy and
Michelle Williams at Bad Robot. Logan also ;
wrote Rango, Coriolanus, 007's Skyfall and i/ i Terry Richardson _ Graydon Carter and Anna Scott
Jersey Boys for the big screen. °

APRIL 2012 * AVENUE MAGAZINE | 61

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013455
