Prince Andrew and girl, 17, who sex offender friend flew to Britain to meet him | Daily Mail Online

‘We'd do family things, like watch Sex And The
City and eat popcorn. ‘A lot of it was very
glamorous. | met famous friends of his such as
Al Gore and Heidi Klum and Naomi Campbell.
He introduced me as his “travelling masseuse.”

Some people mistook me for his daughter.
‘When we were in New York or Palm Beach,
Ghislaine and | would shop all day.

Jeffrey bought me jewellery — diamonds were
his favourite — and wonderful furniture. He was
paying me very well because I'd give him sex
whenever he wanted it.’

She was, she says, delighted when Epstein
invited her to accompany him on a six-week trip
in 2001.

‘He said we’d be going to Europe and North
Africa to meet architects and interior decorators
because he wanted to redo his New Mexico
house.

| threw my arms around him and gave him a
peck on the cheek.’ They flew to Paris, then
Spain, then Tangier.

Finally, they went to London. ‘After we landed,
we drove straight to Ghislaine’s house,’ says

=

b 'He was so excited’: (’
Star Wars' Adam Driver 4
gushes about ‘surreal’
experience of working
with ‘generous’ Harrison
Ford on Force Awakens
Co-starred with a legend

» Alicia Vikander wows
in strapless embellished
gown as she hits the red
carpet for The Danish
Girl premiere in London
The 27-year-old actress
ignored chilly weather

» Eddie Redmayne is
feeling festive in another
plaid suit as wife
Hannah Bagshaw stuns
in sheer dress at
London premiere of The
Danish Girl

> On their way home!
Kim Kardashian and
Kanye West ‘have left
the hospital with baby
son Saint' three days

Virginia. ‘| was given a small upstairs bedroom. after welcoming him into 7

The following morning, Ghislaine came in. Counselling: Virginia:at her: mother:s:homeat Palm the world
Beach in 1998

She was chirpy and jumped on the bed saying, ; ; a
“Get up, sleepyhead. You've got a big day. ‘I can't deal with it!

We've got to go shopping. You need a dress as you're going to dance with a Prince tonight.” eee edie

‘She said | needed to be “smiley” and bubbly because he was the Queen’s son. girls start talking to
4 . boys in sneak peek for
Ghislaine and | went to Burberry, where she bought me a £5,000 bag, and to a few other designer upcoming season of
stores where we bought a couple of dresses, a pair of embroidered jeans and a pink singlet, reality show
perfume and make-up.
We got back to Ghislaine’s house at around 4pm and | ran straight upstairs to shower and dress. Vea ae ro eed
When | went downstairs, Ghislaine and Jeffrey were in the lounge. There was a knock at the door. Weiland's ex-wife pens
Ghislaine led Andrew in and we kissed each other on the cheek. ‘Ghislaine served tea from a letter on behalf of his
porcelain pot and biscuits. She knew Sarah Ferguson and they talked fondly about Andrew's two children asking
daughters. people not to glorify the
tragedy
Then Ghislaine asked Andrew how old he thought | was and he guessed 17 and they all laughed.
Ghislaine made a joke that | was getting too old for Jeffrey. > Welcome to the
She said, “He’ll soon have to trade her in.” It was widely known that he liked young girls.’ The four of ac betea hallcitame!
E : ndy Garcia's daughter
them went out to dinner and on to Tramp nightclub where, she says, Andrew danced with her. Alessandra lands plus-
‘After about an hour-and-a-half, we drove back to Ghislaine’s. size modelling career
and stars in sultry
All of us went upstairs and | asked Jeffrey to snap a picture of me with the Prince. | wanted lingerie shoot

something to show my Mom. Ghislaine and Jeffrey left us after that, and later Andrew left.

‘In the morning, Ghislaine said, “You did well. He had fun”. We flew straight back to the States.’ The Libre ently
Mail on Sunday has confirmed that the tycoon’s jet flew to Paris on March 6, 2001, continuing to er eoreced eee

f : Burt R Ids wades i
Granada, Tangier and London, before returning to New York. a afgalie ne n

On the last leg of the trip, Virginia was paid about $15,000 (£9,400) by Epstein. ‘It was amazing tumultuous relationship

money, more than I’d ever made on a trip with him before. rey ace ete ae
He didn’t say there was any special reason, but | felt like I’d done everything he wanted. He was very

pleased.’ b Arnold

There is no suggestion that there was any sexual | took eight pills a day to Cue een

contact between Virginia and Andrew, or that inetclimate ch
Andrew knew that Epstein paid her to have sex help me forget what | had to fonlacs Sane. i. re

with his friends. ‘d 't gi damn’
do. It made me calm. aboid wted ecopee BIInk
However, the Prince must have been aware of

Epstein’s conviction when he stayed with him in New York in December.
} Ka-ching! Katy Perry

Virginia says she met Andrew for a second time around Easter 2001 at Epstein’s Manhattan conquers rival Taylor
mansion. Swift as the top-earning
. . . = . musician of 2015

‘When | got to the mansion, | was told, “Get ready. You are meeting someone in the office” — which Forbes examined the pre- ©

is what they called the library. Andrew was sitting there in a big leather armchair. tax income, including
endorsements

Ghislaine had just given him a present, a big toy that was his Spitting Image puppet. ‘He was smiling

ear-to-ear. He looked like a kid whose parents were taking him to Disney World. > ‘Loyalty sometimes

A beautiful girl called Johanna Sjoberg who worked for Jeffrey was sitting on Andrew's knee. See vermin er Sry

ee 4 . : ; adid gets frank about

Ghislaine guided me over to Andrew and | think he recognised me, though | don’t know if he exes, BFF Kendall

remembered my name. Jenner and being a
protective big sister to
Bella

» Leggy Gigi Hadid is a
color co-ordinated
dream in all-nude outfit
as she showcases
supermodel stems in
slashed jumpsuit
Stepped out in New York

Kendall Jenner reads

http:/Awww.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-1361039/Prince-Andrew-girl- 17-sex-offender-friend-flew-Britain-meet-him.htm| 5/29

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015647
