APPENDIX 1

Chinese Influence Operations
Bureaucracy

While recent months have brought increased attention to the United Front Work
Department, or “United Front activities,” it is important to emphasize that this is
but one of many institutions within the Chinese party-state involved in influence
operations. As the accompanying graphic illustrates, the bureaucracy involved in
extending China’s global influence is large, complex, and specialized in function.
Generally speaking, there are three types of bureaucratic organizations included in
the chart: (1) policy coordination; (2) policy formulation and implementation; and

(3) organizations with specialized functions.

As a Leninist party-state, CCP organizations have higher political status than
government institutions. This has become even more pronounced under the Party’s
general secretary Xi Jinping and following the bureaucratic reorganization announced
after the March 2018 meeting of the National People’s Congress. Generally speaking,
Party organs make policies, which are then implemented by state bureaucracies. There
is no single organization overseeing the entirety of the country’s influence operations
abroad. The most important CCP organizations in the diagram are the Foreign Affairs
Commission, the External Propaganda Leading Group/State Council Information
Office, the CCP Propaganda Department, the CCP United Front Work Department,
the CCP International Liaison Department, and United Front departments inside the
People’s Liberation Army. Critical policies related to foreign affairs are formulated

in these bodies. The same organizations are also involved in coordinating the

implementation of these policies.

The Policy-Making Process in the Chinese Party-State

The process is driven both by top leadership and functional bureaucracies. Policy
formulation, which involves the generation of ideas and proposals, typically

takes place in functional bureaucracies and specialized departments within these
bureaucracies. In the process of policy formulation, one bureaucracy specializing

in the functional or issue area (for example, propaganda) may take charge, but it

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020592
