10.

iL.

In the Spring of 2009 (approximately April), I joined the law firm of Rothstein,
Rosenfeldt and Adler, P.A. (“RRA”). I brought my existing clients with me when I
joined RRA, including MMB, and Jane Doe. When I joined the firm, I was not
aware that Scott Rothstein was running a Ponzi scheme at RRA. Had I known such a
Ponzi scheme was in place, I would never have joined RRA.

I am now aware that it has been alleged that Scott Rothstein made fraudulent
presentations to investors about the lawsuits that I had filed on behalf of my clients
against Epstein and that it has been alleged that these lawsuits were used to fraudulently
lure investors into Rothstein’s Ponzi scheme. I never met a single investor, had no part
in any such presentations and had no knowledge any such fraud was occurring. If these
allegations are true, I had no knowledge that any such fraudulent presentations were
occurring and no knowledge of any such improper use of the case files.

Epstein’s Complaint against me alleges that Rothstein made false statements about
cases filed against Epstein, i.e., that RRA had 50 anonymous females who had filed suit
against Epstein; that Rothstein sold an interest in personal injury lawsuits, reached
agreements to share attorneys fees with non-lawyers, paid clients “up front” money; and
that he used the judicial process to further his Ponzi scheme. If Rothstein did any of
these things, I had no knowledge of his actions. Because I maintained close contact
with my clients, Hj HMM and Jane Doe, and Scott Rothstein never met any of them, I
know for certain that none of my clients were paid “up front” money by anyone.

Epstein alleges that I attempted to take the depositions of his “high profile friends and
acquaintances” for no legitimate litigation purpose. This is untrue, as all of my actions
in representing H., MM, and Jane Doe were aimed at providing them effective
representation in their civil suits. With regard to Epstein’s friends, through documents
and information obtained in discovery and other means of investigation, I learned that
Epstein was sexually molesting minor girls on a daily basis and had been for many
years. I also learned the unsurprising fact that he was molesting the girls in the privacy
of his mansion in West Palm Beach, meaning that locating witnesses to corroborate
their testimony would be difficult to find. I also learned, from the course of the
litigation, that Epstein and his lawyers were constantly attacking the credibility of the
girls, that Epstein’s employees were all represented by lawyers who apparently were
paid for (directly or indirectly) by Epstein, that co-conspirators whose representation
was also apparently paid for by Epstein were all taking the Fifth (like Epstein) rather
than provide information in discovery. For example, I was given reason to believe that

Larry Visoski, Larry Harrison, David Rogers, Louella Rabuyo,
ME, Ghislaine Maxwell, Mark Epstein, and Janusz Banasiak all had lawyers
paid for by Epstein. Because Epstein and the co-conspirators in his child molestation
criminal enterprise blocked normal discovery avenues, I needed to search for other
ordinary approaches to strengthen the cases of my clients. Consistent with my training
and experience, these other ordinary approaches included finding other witnesses who
could corroborate allegations of sexual abuse of my clients or other girls. Some of these
witnesses were friends of Epstein. Given his social status, it also turned out that some
of his friends were high-profile individuals.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013469
