Please feel free to reach out to us if you require any further information. We look forward to hearing from
you soon.

THC

TIIC Group backed by Edmond de Rothschild, is a pan-European infrastructure firm advising on mid-market
infrastructure projects across Europe in both the transportation and social sectors. It was established in 2008
by the 3 founding partners of TIIC Group, Jaime d’Almeida, Manuel Cary and Francisco Mendes, with strategic
support from the Edmond de Rothschild Group and Brisa.

The aim of TIIC Group is to bring an operational approach to infrastructure investments in Europe, drawing
upon the extensive management and financial skills of its team members. These skills have been developed
over many years at some of Europe’s leading infrastructure operators and project financing firms which,
when combined with the very specific infrastructure expertise of both the Edmond de Rothschild Group and
Brisa, makes for a powerful and differentiated investment platform.

TIIC Group operates from two offices in Lisbon and Paris, providing its team with access to relevant
investment opportunities across key target markets in Europe as well as to leading industrial contractors,
operators, advisors and financiers in the infrastructure industry.

TIIC Group successfully raised a First Fund with €140m of commitments targeting transportation investments
across Europe. The portfolio of the First Fund comprises 6 assets located in Portugal, Spain, France and
Poland. They represent a carefully balanced mix of greenfield and early stage brownfield projects in roads
and car parks. TIIC Group has played an active role in the sourcing and development of all investments and
has made a significant contribution to value creation. TIIC Group believes that this is a high quality,
operationally secure, cash yielding portfolio of assets which will be of strong interest to potential investors
over the coming few years.

TIIC has launched a successor fund, TIIC 2, which will build upon TIIC Group’ differentiated approach to
infrastructure in Europe. TIIC 2 will is targeting aggregate commitments from investors of €300m (€350m
hard cap) to invest into both transportation and social infrastructure projects in Europe. TIIC 2 will also seek
to invest, ona very selective basis, into greenfield social infrastructure projects in New Frontier Markets,
within close proximity to the European Union. Given its powerful network of relationships across Europe and
the operational skills of its team, TIIC Group will continue to target superior investment returns for TIIC 2’s
portfolio of assets. These returns should be in line with the anticipated returns from the First Fund portfolio
which is forecast to deliver a gross IRR of up to 14% and a multiple of approximately 2x on invested capital.

TIIC announced the first close of TIIC 2 on December 30 2016, with aggregate commitments of €135m from
a group of high quality and well-diversified limited partners. First close investors in TIIC 2 include the
European Investment Bank and Edmond de Rothschild, both with significant commitments, as well as the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026060
