TED2017: The future you

4/20/17, 12:07 PM

Comedian, science fan

The co-host of Star Talk Radio, Chuck Nice is a radio and TV veteran with a passion for science communication and comedy.

Chuck Nice is an 18-year veteran of stand-up comedy with a rich history in television and radio. Currently, he co-hosts Star7alk with Dr.
Neil deGrasse Tyson on Nat Geo, and is the host of Playing with Science, a podcast he created under the StarTalk Radio umbrella. In
addition, Chuck is the writer and producer of Like A Damn Adult for Newsy. He has also hosted his own shows, Buy It Like a Mega
Millionaire and Home Strange Home, on HGTV, and co-hosted ABC’s The View. His other familiar works include TRU TV’s World’s
Dumbest, VH-1’s Best Week Ever, and Guys Tell All on NBC’s Today. Most weekends, he can be found on stage at one of New York’s
comedy clubs.

chucknicecomic.com @chucknicecomic

Guy Winch
Psychologist, author

Guy Winch asks us to take our emotional health as seriously as we take our physical health -- and explores how to heal from common
heartaches.

Guy Winch is a licensed psychologist who works with individuals, couples and families. As an advocate for psychological health, he has
spent the last two decades adapting the findings of scientific studies into tools his patients, readers and audience members can use to
enhance and maintain their mental health. As an identical twin with a keen eye for any signs of favoritism, he believes we need to practice
emotional hygiene with the same diligence with which we practice personal and dental hygiene.

His recent book, Emotional First Aid: Healing Rejection, Guilt, Failure, and Other Everyday Hurts, has been translated in 21 languages.
He writes the popular Squeaky Wheel Blog” on PsychologyToday.com, and he is the author of The Squeaky Wheel: Complaining the
Right Way to Get Results, Improve Your Relationships and Enhance Self-Esteem. His new book, How to Fix a Broken Heart, will be
published by TED Books/Simon & Schuster in 2017. He has also dabbled in stand-up comedy.

guywinch.com

Anne Lamott
Novelist, essayist

With disarming familiarity, Anne Lamott tackles what most don’t like to consider. Her honest writing helps us make sense of life’s chaos.

Anne Lamott hooks into our common experience and guides us to an understanding infused with openness. A Christian, an activist and a
former alcoholic, Lamott uses humor to weave through loss, parenthood, faith and the cancer diagnosis given to her best friend, in beloved
books like Bird by Bird and Help, Thanks, Wow: The Three Essential Prayers . She says, Hope begins in the dark ... if you just show up
and try to do the right thing, the dawn will come. You wait and watch and work: you don't give up.”

Her next book, Hallelujah Anyway; Rediscovering Mercy, is set to release in April 2017.

@annelamott facebook.com/AnneLamott

Thursday, April 27, 5:00PM - 7:00PM PDT

Session 10: Tales of Tomorrow
Hosted by Chris Anderson and Juliet Blake.

https://ted2017.ted.com/program

Cynthia Erivo
Actor, performer

Best known for her role in the Broadway revival of The Color Purple,” Cynthia Erivo is a Tony- and Grammy-winning performer.
Cynthia Erivo made her Broadway debut as Celie in Zhe Color Purple — a role that earned her Tony and Grammy Awards. Erivo has
performed for the annual Kennedy Center Honors and been featured on stage in Sister Act as well as A Midsummer Night’s Dream. Most
recently, Erivo teamed up with John Legend at the 2017 Grammy Awards to perform the Beach Boys’ song, “God Only Knows.”

The actress stars with Viola Davis in the upcoming Steve McQueen film Widows, and as Harriet Tubman in the biopic Harriet.

facebook.com/cynthiaerivo @CynthiaEriVo

Manoush Zomorodi
Tech podcaster

Every week on her podcast Note to Self, Manoush Zomorodi searches for answers to life’s digital quandaries.

Manoush Zomorodi is the host and managing editor of Note to Seif, “the tech show about being human,” from WNYC Studios. Through
experiments and conversations with listeners and experts, she examines the new questions tech has brought into our lives. Topics include
information overload, digital clutter, sexting “scandals” and the eavesdropping capabilities of our gadgets.

Page 18 of 21

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014968
