JaMES PATTERSON

“| had people in the community in Palm Beach who either made
comments directly to me or to others who relayed them to me that I
didn't need to take the tack in the investigation that we did, which is
[to] completely investigate it and then refer it tothe FBI after the
state case was resolved,” Reiter said in the deposition. “I had one
individual who came to see me a couple of times about this.”

According to the chief, the individual in question was a
prominent Palm Beach politician.

“He said this wasn’t necessary; this was a case that was really
very minor,” Reiter recalled. “The victims had lifestyles that
don’t make them—shouldn’t make them believable to the police
department.”

“I told him that those kinds of suggestions to me were
improper and he should stop,” said Reiter. “That he had taken a
couple of steps down the road toward something that could
eventually constitute a crime. We talked several times. Early on
it didn't end favorably. You know, this is an individual [whom] I
had to interact with in my official capacity and in his official
capacity as well.”

The Palm Beach politician wasn't the only one to pressure
the police chief. “I received comments from a variety of different
viewpoints. . .in some cases I had people tell me, hey, he's a Palm
Beacher, why are you investigating a Palm Beacher?” Reiter
would say when deposed. “I had people that said it was an unfa-

vorable career move for me to ask the state attorney to remove ~
himself from the case and to refer it to the FBI....1 had plenty of 7

people that told me that that was a mistake.”

Reiter didn't back off. To have done so would have been 4 a

betrayal—not only of the victims but also of his vocation and

the community he had sworn he would serve.

184

2
ar

Fit:

“My responsibility was to
Beach and preserve their con:
department for all,” Reiter sai
particularly under the crimin
the nature of our system, be t

But along with handing t
attorney, Reiter took another
letters—on Palm Beach PD |
victims in the case.

He delivered the letters by

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010525
