11. THE OPERATING COMPANY (“KLC OPCO”)

KLC’s mission is to provide a quality education to children from birth to college. KLC was formed from the
combination of KLC and AER which occurred in May 2003 and the subsequent acquisition of KinderCare
in January of 2005. Based in Portland, Oregon, KLC consists of (i) KLC OpCo, a collection of operating
companies and (ii) KLC PropCo, a collection of special purpose subsidiaries owning substantially all of
KLC’s real estate.

11.1. KLC OpCo

KLC OpCo is the largest for-profit provider of ECE and care services in the U.S., the second largest
provider of employer-sponsored ECE to the corporate segment in the U.S. and the largest for-profit
provider of before and after school programs in the U.S. Through one of its subsidiaries, KLC OpCo also
operates accredited high school distance learning programs that have served over 200,000 students
since 1975. On a pro forma basis for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, KLC OpCo generated
revenue and Adjusted EBITDA of $1,477.7 million and $149.9 million, respectively.

KLC OpCo Business Units

KLC OpCo

Early Childhood Education (“ECE”) School Partnerships Distance Learning
(Community (Employer (Before and after school care) (Online Education)
Centers) Sponsored Centers)
1,812 centers 122 centers 573 sites
90% of ProForma 6% of Pro Forma 3% of Pro Forma Revenue 1% of Pro Forma Revenue
Revenue Revenue

11.2. Early Childhood Education Unit (96% of Pro Forma FYE December 31, 2005
Revenue)

As of FYE December 31, 2005, KLC OpCo provided ECE services through its 1,812 company-operated
community centers (90% of pro forma revenue) and 122 employer-sponsored centers (6% of pro forma
revenue). In total the ECE Unit operated 1,934 centers in 39 states and Washington D.C., offering ECE
programs primarily for children aged six weeks to five years. The programs are marketed primarily under
the KinderCare, Children’s World, Children’s Discovery Centers, Knowledge Beginnings and Mulberry
Child Care & Preschool brand names.

KLC OpCo’s centers typically contain classrooms, recreational areas, kitchens and bathroom facilities.
The centers usually accommodate the grouping of children according to age. The centers have outdoor
playgrounds, often with separate areas designed for infants and toddlers, with the exception of some
downtown urban centers that may utilize nearby parks. Each center is equipped with a variety of audio
and visual aids, educational supplies, games, toys and indoor and outdoor play equipment. In addition,
most of the centers are equipped with personal computers with programs specifically designed for both
pre-school and school-age children. The typical center can serve between 120-140 students, although
actual enrollments can be higher as some children are enrolled on a part-time basis. Children are usually
enrolled on a weekly basis for either full-day or half-day sessions. Most centers provide enrolled children
with meals and two snacks.

82

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024515
