court. The president called home to tell his friends how natural and easy this was, and
how, inexplicably and suspiciously, Obama had messed it all up. There “has been a little
strain, but there won’t be strain with this administration,” the president assured Hamad bin
Isa Al Khalifa, the king of Bahrain.

Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, the Egyptian strongman, ably stroked the president and said, “You
are a unique personality that is capable of doing the impossible.” (To Sisi, Trump replied,
“Love your shoes. Boy, those shoes. Man... .”)

It was, in dramatic ways, a shift in foreign policy attitude and strategy—and its effects
were almost immediate. The president, ignoring if not defying foreign policy advice, gave
a nod to the Saudis’ plan to bully Qatar. Trump’s view was that Qatar was providing
financial support to terror groups—pay no attention to a similar Saudi history. (Only some
members of the Saudi royal family had provided such support, went the new reasoning.)
Within weeks of the trip, MBS, detaining MBN quite in the dead of night, would force
him to relinquish the Crown Prince title, which MBS would then assume for himself.
Trump would tell friends that he and Jared had engineered this: “We’ve put our man on
top!”

From Riyadh, the presidential party went on to Jerusalem, where the president met
with Netanyahu and, in Bethlehem, with Abbas, expressing ever greater certainty that, in
his third-person guise, “Trump will make peace.” Then to Rome to meet the pope. Then to
Brussels, where, in character, he meaningfully drew the line between Western-alliance-
based foreign policy, which had been firmly in place since World War II, and the new
America First ethos.

In Trump’s view, all this should have been presidency-shaping stuff. He couldn’t
believe his dramatic accomplishments weren’t getting bigger play. He was simply in
denial, Bannon, Priebus, and others noted, about the continuing and competing Comey
and Mueller headlines.

One of Trump’s deficiencies—a constant in the campaign and, so far, in the presidency
—was his uncertain grasp of cause and effect. Until now, whatever problems he might
have caused in the past had reliably been supplanted by new events, giving him the
confidence that one bad story can always be replaced by a better, more dramatic story. He
could always change the conversation. The Saudi trip and his bold campaign to upend the
old foreign policy world order should have accomplished exactly that. But the president
continued to find himself trapped, incredulously on his part, by Comey and Mueller.
Nothing seemed to move on from those two events.

After the Saudi leg of the trip, Bannon and Priebus, both exhausted by the trip’s intense
proximity to the president and his family, peeled off and headed back to Washington. It
was now their job to deal with what had become, in the White House staff’s absence, the
actual, even ultimate, presidency-shaping crisis.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020058
