Afpak — a mess

Obama has made no big mistakes in a revolutionary environment, but no victories
either. No big bets other than surge in Afghan — which we lost; and killing Osama
which we won. Obama’s approach is to take no risk, increment into a situation and
hedge the position. No big bets. Maybe that’s right for these times but look at
Truman with Marshall Plan; in *73 ME war Nixon used it to push Soviets out of
ME which gave us 30 years of dominance in ME. Bush (I) pushed to integrate
Germany and Poland into NATO — huge bet and we won. Big bets come from the
top down. Not interagency BS. Before Malta summit, Reagan WH had given him
18 initiatives to raise with Gorbachev. 2 days before summit, Reagan decided to
pass them by cabinet. Held cabinet meeting and every time an idea was surfaced,
the relevant cabinet member tried to kill it until it had been vetted by his
bureaucracy. After three went this way, Reagan ended the meeting. Presidents
make big bets, administrations don’t. Here are some ideas:

1. Iran — next president will be forced to make a big bet.

2. Egypt — Importnace is clear. Our response has been pitiful. Small and
irrelevant. Obama is letting his team over analize and organizational
dynamics are pushing safe and no risk options. Only a president can
overcome organizational dynamics. Not all big bets are worth taking.

3. Syria — Pattern has been to hesitate and equivocate. Some of our allies are
joking that we will implement a no fly zone ... 10 feet at a time. We should
break the Syria - Iran link with the full force of the US. Slow and cautious
will be damaging to our interests in Syria and Iran.

4. KSA we should consider guarantying their integrity.

5. Iraq — NAM bring it towards a break up. Bet on Alawi

6. ME peace process — we need a big bet.

Incrementalism won’t work. Activities threaten our vital interests. No big bets can
succeed if the US has a policy of leading from behind.

Strobe Talbott

Big bets should be hedged and designed to change when circumstances change on
the ground. Obama doctrine is not concise and that’s deliberate and smart in a very
dynamic regions. Obama is an anti-doctrine doctrine.

Scowcroft

We need a central strategy. Currently we are all tactics and no strategy. Pivot to
Asia, responses to EU financial crisis etc are all tactics. The Westphalian structure
is under attack. Industrialization led to Westphalian state. Globalization is creating

14

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025810
