29

Practical Tips to Reduce FCPA Risk in Mergers and Acquisitions

Companies pursuing mergers or acquisitions can take certain steps to identify and potentially reduce FCPA risks:

M&A Opinion Procedure Release Requests: One option is to seek an opinion from DOJ in anticipation of a
potential acquisition, such as occurred with Opinion Release 08-02. That case involved special circumstances,
namely, severely limited pre-acquisition due diligence available to the potential acquiring company, and, because
it was an opinion release (i.e., providing certain assurances by DOJ concerning prospective conduct), it necessarily
imposed demanding standards and prescriptive timeframes in return for specific assurances from DOJ, which
SEC, as a matter of discretion, also honors. Thus, obtaining an opinion from DOJ can be a good way to address
specific due diligence challenges, but, because of the nature of such an opinion, it will likely contain more stringent
requirements than may be necessary in all circumstances.

M&A Risk-Based FCPA Due Diligence and Disclosure: As a practical matter, most acquisitions will typically not
require the type of prospective assurances contained in an opinion from DOJ. DOJ and SEC encourage companies
engaging in mergers and acquisitions to: (1) conduct thorough risk-based FCPA and anti-corruption due diligence
on potential new business acquisitions; (2) ensure that the acquiring company’s code of conduct and compliance
policies and procedures regarding the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws apply as quickly as is practicable to
newly acquired businesses or merged entities; (3) train the directors, officers, and employees of newly acquired
businesses or merged entities, and when appropriate, train agents and business partners, on the FCPA and other
relevant anti-corruption laws and the company’s code of conduct and compliance policies and procedures; (4)
conduct an FCPA-specific audit of all newly acquired or merged businesses as quickly as practicable; and (5) disclose
any corrupt payments discovered as part of its due diligence of newly acquired entities or merged entities. DOJ
and SEC will give meaningful credit to companies who undertake these actions, and, in appropriate circumstances,
DOJ and SEC may consequently decline to bring enforcement actions.

bribery—both the new entity and the foreign subsidiaries
were liable under the FCPA. The new parent entered into
a non-prosecution agreement with DOJ and settled a civil
action with SEC, while the company’s subsidiaries, which
also merged, pleaded guilty.'*

More often, DOJ and SEC have pursued enforce-
ment actions against the predecessor company (rather
than the acquiring company), particularly when the
acquiring company uncovered and timely remedied the
violations or when the government’s investigation of
the predecessor company preceded the acquisition. In
one such case, an Ohio-based health care company’s due
diligence of an acquisition target uncovered FCPA vio-
lations by the target’s subsidiary, and, before the merger
was completed, the subsidiary’s violations were disclosed
to DOJ and SEC. The subsidiary pleaded guilty and
139

paid a $2 million criminal fine,

settled with SEC and paid a $500,000 civil penalty,’”

the acquisition target

and no successor liability was sought against the acquir-
ing entity. In another case, a Pennsylvania-based issuer
that supplied heating and air conditioning products and
services was subject to an ongoing investigation by DOJ
and SEC at the time that it was acquired; DOJ and SEC
resolved enforcement actions only against the predecessor
company, which had by that time become a wholly owned
subsidiary of the successor company..”!

DOJand SEC have also brought actions only against a
predecessor company where its FCPA violations are discov-
ered after acquisition. For example, when a Florida-based
US. company discovered in post-acquisition due diligence
that the telecommunications company (a domestic con-
cern) it had acquired had engaged in foreign bribery, the
successor company disclosed the FCPA violations to DOJ.
It then conducted an internal investigation, cooperated
fully with DOJ, and took appropriate remedial action—

including terminating senior management at the acquired

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022531

