Visible / Invisible

The artist Paul Klee often talked about art as “making the invisible visible.” In computer
technology, most algorithms work invisibly, in the background; they remain inaccessible
in the systems we use daily. But lately there has been an interesting comeback of
visuality in machine learning. The ways that the deep-learning algorithms of AI are
processing data have been made visible through applications like Google’s DeepDream,
in which the process of computerized pattern-recognition is visualized in real time. The
application shows how the algorithm tries to match animal forms with any given input.
There are many other AI visualization programs that, in their way, also “make the
invisible visible.” The difficulty in the general public perception of such images is, in
Steyerl’s view, that these visual patterns are viewed uncritically as realistic and objective
representations of the machine process. She says of the aesthetics of such visualizations:

For me, this proves that science has become a subgenre of art history. ... We
now have lots of abstract computer patterns that might look like a Paul Klee
painting, or a Mark Rothko, or all sorts of other abstractions that we know from
art history. The only difference, I think, is that in current scientific thought
they’re perceived as representations of reality, almost like documentary images,
whereas in art history there’s a very nuanced understanding of different kinds of
abstraction.

What she seeks is a more profound understanding of computer-generated images
and the different aesthetic forms they use. They are obviously not generated with the
explicit goal of following a certain aesthetic tradition. The computer engineer Mike
Tyka, in a conversation with Steyerl, explained the functions of these images:

Deep-learning systems, especially the visual ones, are really inspired by the need
to know what’s going on in the black box. Their goal is to project these
processes back into the real world.

Nevertheless, these images have aesthetic implications and values which have to
be taken into account. One could say that while the programmers use these images to
help us better understand the programs’ algorithms, we need the knowledge of artists to
better understand the aesthetic forms of AI. As Steyerl has pointed out, such
visualizations are generally understood as “true” representations of processes, but we
should pay attention to their respective aesthetics, and their implications, which have to
be viewed in a critical and analytical way.

In 2017, the artist Trevor Paglen created a project to make these invisible AI
algorithms visible. In Sight Machine, he filmed a live performance of the Kronos Quartet
and processed the resulting images with various computer software programs used for
face detection, object identification, and even for missile guidance. He projected the
outcome of these algorithms, in real time, back to screens above the stage. By
demonstrating how the various different programs interpreted the musicians’
performance, Paglen showed that AI algorithms are always determined by sets of values
and interests which they then manifest and reiterate, and thus must be critically
questioned. The significant contrast between algorithms and music also raises the issue
of relationships between technical and human perception.

146

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016366
