stock index, and there was $1.1 trillion bet on Russell U.S.
indexes overall, according to the company.

The bigger universe of investors would likely boost the
trading multiples of the firms’ stocks. It’s unclear how big the
economic benefit of increased ownership would be, so the
question is whether it would make up for the higher taxes.
“There’s no way to say how much multiple expansion you
could get by converting,” said Gerald O’ Hara, who follows
private equity firms for Jefferies Group. “That’s the question
here that I think these firms are wrestling with.”

Tax Complexity

One of the main reasons the funds have stayed away from
private equity managers is tax complexity. Investors in typical
stocks receive a Form 1099, a straightforward document that
shows interest and dividends on investments at the end of each
year. Owners of publicly traded private equity firms’ stock get
the Schedule K-1 instead. The K-1 shows their share of the
partnership’s interest, which determines how much the income is
taxed. It’s a headache, O’Hara said. Plus, firms can be
inconsistent on the time of year they send out the forms, and
the process of plugging in the numbers on a Schedule K-1 isn’t
as simple as it is for other kinds of income.

So asset managers, which offer options for many 401(k)
investors, avoid buying shares of private equity firms.

On the campaign trail last year, President Donald Trump

said he wasn’t a fan of Wall Street “paper pushers” like hedge
fund managers. He pledged to raise the tax rate on carried
interest. The new tax law keeps it unchanged for investments
held at least three years.

Hamilton Lane

Proponents of conversion to corporations point to Hamilton

Lane Inc., an alternative-investment manager and pension-fund
consultant that’s a corporation and not a publicly traded
partnership. The $1.9 billion company, which went public earlier
this year, is now included in dozens of S&P, Russell and
WisdomTree Investments Inc. indexes. Hamilton Lane shares have
about doubled since the initial public offering.

Ares Management LP, created by former Apollo executives, is

the most likely of its peers to make the jump, according to

analysts at Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc. Much of its revenue
comes from management fees, so becoming a corporation would hurt
its after-tax earnings relatively little.

Bill Mendel of Mendel Communications, a spokesman for Ares,
said the firm is studying the situation. Apollo spokesman

Charles Zehren of Rubenstein Associates declined to comment.
When Black spoke to the Goldman Sachs conference, he said

he was certain of one thing: None of the big publicly traded
partnerships wanted to be first to undergo conversion.

“If somebody does go first and their stock doesn’t move up,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023565
