Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 751-10 Filed 03/17/17 Page 2 of 4
Prince Andrew denies sex abuse claims - CNN.com

oa edition.cnn.com

Story highlights

e Prince Andrew addresses crowd at Davos, backs palace statement
e Court documents show attorneys sent a letter asking to interview him under oath
e Buckingham Palace has strenuously denied claim that he had sex with Virginia Roberts
Firstly, | think | must, want, for the record to refer to the events that have taken place in the last three weeks. And |

just wish to reiterate and to reaffirm the statements which have already been made on my behalf by Buckingham
Palace,” he said Thursday at the World Economic Forum.

Earlier this month, Buckingham Palace issued a statement which said, It is emphatically denied that the Duke of
York [Andrew] had any form of sexual contact or relationship with the woman. Any claim to the contrary is false and
without foundation.

Andrew is a son of Queen Elizabeth II and a brother of Prince Charles, the next in line for the British throne.

The prince is accused of having sex with the woman when she was 17, details of which are is a sworn affidavit in
Florida court dated January 19. The woman said that she and the Prince had sex three times, including one orgy.

The court documents showed that her lawyers had sent a letter to Buckingham Palace asking to interview the prince
under oath.

In her sworn affidavit, the woman described Buckingham Palace's denial that sexual contact ever took place
between the pair as false and hurtful to me.

Interview request

The woman, identified by Buckingham Palace as Virginia Roberts, first named the prince in a civil motion filed
December 30 in the U.S. District Court in southern Florida in which she claims she was forced to have sex with
several men. She is referred to as Jane Doe No. 3 in the legal filings.

In the letter the woman's lawyers sent to Buckingham Palace, attorneys Paul Cassell and Bradley Edwards asked to
interview Prince Andrew under oath regarding interactions that you had with Jane Doe No. 3 beginning in
approximately early 2001. Jane Doe No. 3 was then 17 years old.

The letter includes a picture of the woman and Andrew which was taken around that time, they say. The lawyers also
want to discuss subsequent interactions with their client in New York City later that year, the letter says.

The interview could be conducted at a time and place of your choosing, and with your cooperation, | believe the
interview could be completed in two hours or less, it says.

New court pleadings involving the relationship between Jane Doe No. 3 and the prince are being prepared, the letter
adds, but their filing will be delayed if Andrew accepts the interview request by January 19.

The attorney for her legal team confirmed to CNN that Buckingham Palace had refused to accept the letter to Prince
Andrew and that it was returned to them.

Buckingham Palace didn't respond Thursday when asked by CNN about the letter.
1/3

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014824
