158 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

therefore generate energy. There was a concern that if the right catalyst
was accidentally introduced into the oceans they would solidify into
polywater thus dooming the human race, or at the very least making
water sports impossible!

Feynman was consulted and stated, “If there were such a substance
as polywater then there would have evolved an animal that eats water
and excretes polywater, using the liberated energy as its power source.
Since there is no such animal, polywater does not exist?

Feynman's proof is an elegant indirect proof coupled with a
syllogism. Polywater exists. Polywater is a lower energy form of the high-
energy substance called water. Food is a high-energy substance that can
be converted to a low energy substance by a process we shall call ‘being
good to eat? All things on earth that are good to eat have something that
eats them. Polywater is a food and therefore good to eat. Therefore an
animal must exist that eats polywater. No such animal exists, so either
something in our chain of logic is wrong, or the premise is unsound.
Since the chain is sound, the original premise must be wrong: Polywater
cannot exist.

In short, Feynman’s proof says: if a thing is so, then the inevitable
consequence is the evolution of something else, and since that something
else does not exist, the original thing cannot be so. QED: disproof by
nonexistent consequence.

The polywater disproof neatly demonstrates the important elements
of Feynman's Evolutionary proof. First, life must be continuously exposed
to the thing in question, in this case water. This is clearly so as most life
on planet Earth lives in the oceans or is intimately entwined with water.
Evolution takes time, so enough time must be allowed for life to evolve.
It must be a nearly linear problem so that a solution proceeds in steps
where each step is an improvement and no step requires too high a level
of mutation or adaption. We can illustrate the boundary between a linear
problem and one requiring a step change by describing how triple drug
therapy works in the treatment of AIDS.

Until triple drug therapy entered the picture progress against AIDS
had been a depressing story of drug discovery followed by the almost
immediate evolution of the virus to evade the drug. The AIDS virus
is a retrovirus with a shell composed of sugar molecules. It is almost
trivial for an AIDS virus to mutate these outer markings to look different,
even from one day to the next. This is the way the virus continually
and nimbly evades our immune system. However, the AIDS virus does
have some components that it can’t easily mutate because they are not
merely aesthetic, they have a functional purpose. Why not target them?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015848
