2014] CRIME VICTIMS’ RIGHTS 91

it has extended many rights to victims before the formal filing of criminal
charges as a matter of internal policy.'** This approach appears to be
workable, as a number of states extend rights to victims during the
investigative process.!**

A. A TEST FOR DETERMINING WHEN RIGHTS ATTACH

As explained in the earlier Parts of this Article, the CVRA clearly
envisions that crime victims would have nghts in the criminal justice
process before the return of indictments or the filing of criminal complaints.
The question then as to how much earlier in the process crime victims have
rights naturally arises. Does the CVRA apply one second after a federal
crime has been committed? Or does it apply at some later point during an
investigation?

This issue was nicely framed by the U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of New York in a securities fraud case. In the first indictment
underlying the case, the charged crime did not include various victims. A
later superseding indictment broadened the charges to include those missing
individuals. When they brought a suit under the CVRA, the court noted
that “[q]uite understandably, movants perceive their victimization as having
begun long before the government got around to filing the superseding
indictment.”!** The court, however, explained that there must be “logical
limits” to crime victims’ rights before the filing of charges.'* The court
noted:

For example, the realm of cases in which the CVRA might apply despite no
prosecution being ‘underway,’ cannot be read to include the victims of uncharged
crimes that the government has not even contemplated. It is impossible to expect the
government, much less a court, to notify crime victims of their rights if the
government has not verified to at least an elementary degree that a crime has actually
taken lac, given that a corresponding investigation is at a nascent or theoretical
stage.

The logical limits that the CVRA envisions could come from how the
Justice Department interacts with criminals during the investigation of a
crime. Crime victims’ rights advocates are fond of saying that victims
“only want to be treated like criminals”—that is, they simply want to have
the same kinds of rights as criminals receive, such as the right to be notified

182 See, e.g., ATTORNEY GENERAL GUIDELINES, supra note 52, at 41-42 (discussing the
right to confer regarding plea bargains).

183 See infra Part ILD.

184 United States v. Rubin, 558 F. Supp. 2d 411, 419 (E.D.N.Y. 2008).

185 7g.

186 Td.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014070
