Across the globe, most people in these small scale societies offered some amount of the initial
pot. Across the globe, most people rejected really low offers. This shows the universal signature of
fairness: an expectation of sharing resources and a no-tolerance view of greed. Cultures differed with
respect to how much they shared and whether they rejected. Some societies offered, on average, close to
40%, while others offered as little as 15%. Some societies accepted virtually all offers, whereas others
rejected both low and even high offers. Even in more egalitarian societies, therefore, there 1s sensitivity to
unequal distributions. Even in egalitarian societies, there is a willingness to punish those who act
unfairly, greedily taking more than their fair share.

The work I have discussed on fairness is only a fraction of the growing body of scientific
evidence. What this research reveals is that a sense of fairness is part of human nature, appearing early in
development, but guided by experience toward a particular cultural form. When our desire for fairness or
equity combines with our competitive drive, envy often follows. Studies of the brain show how envy is
generated from this combination.

When healthy subjects sit in a brain scanner and learn about other individuals who have what they
desire, there is considerable activity in the anterior cingulate, and more activity in those who feel more
envious. This is not the envy center of the brain. There is no such area. But the recruitment of the anterior
cingulate in other social situations helps us understand what is going on more generally in the case of
envy. The anterior cingulate activates when we experience pain from social exclusion, but not when we
witness such pain in others. It is one of the areas that was activated in Chiao’s work on the differences in
pain empathy for those supporting either an egalitarian or hierarchical society. The anterior cingulate is
also involved when our minds are pulled in two different directions, a situation that arises when we are
forced to choose between two conflicting moral options — for example, a duty to save the lives of many
versus the prohibition of killing one person to save the lives of many. There is a common thread here that
unites these different experiences. Like our experience of social exclusion, envy is also a form of social
pain and to some, deeply painful, as it reveals a sense of deficiency in acquiring resources. Envy also
represents a situation in which our positive sense of self conflicts with the negative sense of self
engendered by social comparison. Our brain — and the anterior cingulate in particular — informs us that
we are less accomplished when compared with others. Envy is socially imposed pain generated by
comparison shopping.

Envy highlights what we don’t have, which fuels the system of desire, which seeks satisfaction.
Unsatisfied, envy runs wild. Unsatisfied, wanting keeps hunting for pleasure. Schadenfreude delivers

some prey.

Hauser Chapter 2. Runaway desire 72

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012818
