80 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

maintenance work. Even though Snowden was no longer a system
administrator, he could still perhaps befriend a system administrator
or even steal or borrow a service computer.

Whatever the NSA’s and Booz Allen’s security measures, Snowden
succeeded in getting the files. In a matter of a few weeks, he man-
aged to download hundreds of thousands of Level 3 documents to an
unsealed computer. He also took some less sensitive documents from
the administrative file (which contained mainly Level 1 documents)
at the end of April. These later acquisitions included an order from
the FISA court issued on April 25, 2013.

He had completed the operation by May 17, the last day he would
ever enter the NSA facility. He transferred the data he had amassed
on the service computer, including the lists of the computers in Rus-
sia and China that the NSA had succeeded in penetrating, onto stor-
age devices, which he later said were thumb drives. Then he coolly
walked past the security guards at the exit, who only seldom per-
formed random checks on NSA employees.

He carried out the entire operation with such brilliant stealth that

© he left few if any clues behind as to how he obtained his colleagues’ ®
passwords to multiple compartments, moved the data from many
different supposedly sealed computers to an opened service machine,
or downloaded these documents to multiple thumb drives without
arousing suspicion. The NSA would not discover the theft for fifteen
days.

His departure from Hawaii was also well prepared. Lindsay Mills
had departed that morning for a planned two-week visit to the outer
islands. This trip allowed him to pack his belongings without saying
anything to her that might be difficult for her to later explain. He
simply left a note that she could show to authorities saying that he
was away ona “business trip.” He informed Bay that he would have
to go in for epilepsy tests on the following Monday and Tuesday. If
the results weren’t good, he might have to be out even longer.

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 80 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019568
