James PATTERSON

and would have shown how he could provide potential protec-
tion from Epstein. That never happened.

39. Getting a call from this supposed FBI agent made me
scared all over again. I had left the old life of sexual slavery
behind me and started a new life in a new country in hopes
that the powerful people whose illegal activities I knew all
about would never find me.

40. Shortly after this purported FBI call, I was contacted
by telephone by someone who appeared clearly to be working
for Epstein. The caller told me about an investigation into.
Epstein and said that some of the girls being questioned were
saying that Epstein had had sexual contact with them. After
they made these allegations, the man said they were being
discredited as drug addicts and prostitutes, but in my case, if
I were to keep quiet, I would “be looked after.” The fact that
this call was made shortly after the supposed FBI call rein-
for[cled my concern that the man I had talked to earlier was
not really working for the FBI but for Epstein. I didn’t think
that the FBI and Epstein would both be working together and
would both get my phone number at almost exactly the same
time. I played along and told this person that I had gotten a
call from the “FBI” but that I didn’t tell him anything. The
person on the phone was pleased to hear [that].

41. A short time later, one of Epstein’s lawyers (not Alan
Dershowitz) called me, and then got Epstein on the line at
the same time. Epstein and his lawyer basically asked again
if I was going to say anything. The clear implication was that
I should not. The way they were talking to me, I was afraid of
what would happen if I didn’t keep quiet. My thought was

248

that if I didn’t say what
I might get hurt.

42. I promised Epste
quiet. They seemed hap
to [be the] way to keer
what Epstein and his lay

This declaration, strick
victims’ lawsuit against t
events that led to Dershoy
involved in spectacular lav
Dershowitz that these alle
him, and a complaint by E

against him were false and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022145
