Commodities overview

Commodities -— Key points

36 UBS

Broadly diversified commodity indices, which declined by about 10% in May, found some support in
June. The sideways move was visible across all commodity sectors, with gold (precious metals)
delivering a temporary price uptick after the May US nonfarm payroll release.

Despite signs of price stabilization, diversified commodity indices are likely to decline in the
coming weeks. Sluggish economic activity should put upward pressure on most commodity
inventories. To mitigate inventory buildups, lower prices are required, in our view. Production cuts for
cyclical commodities need to be incentivized, while demand needs a push.

The starting point for gold (precious metals) remains challenging, with supply likely to outpace
demand this year. However, the chance of further monetary easing (QE3) by the Fed - which is not our
base case - is an upside risk to the gold price. Given the weak fundamental situation combined with
the substantial QE3 risk we maintain our neutral position.

Easing geopolitical tensions related to Iran and further inventory builds in crude oil shifted the
market's attention to sluggish demand growth. With muted incremental crude oil consumption, crude
oil prices are likely to remain under pressure. But as production cuts are likely to kick in, downward
price momentum should slow meaningfully. OPEC production cuts of up to 0.5 mbpd are needed in
the coming months, and should allow the Brent price to stabilize in the USD 80.5 - 90/bbl range (WTI
with a USD 12/bbl discount). But a sideways move in crude oil is not good enough to be long the
commodity. The Brent forward curve has joined WTI and moved into contango as well. Hence, we
keep our underweight position.

With regards to base metals, prices have room to soften in the very short run (4-6 weeks). Copper
prices are likely to decline to USD 6,600/mt in order to weigh on scrap supply and compensate for
deteriorating Chinese import volumes. But the price decline in copper and other base metals should be
short lived. Fiscal and monetary easing in China provide the basis for an acceleration in base metal
demand and should keep prices largely flat on a 6-month horizon. Moreover, metals like aluminum
and nickel are already trading deeply into the production cost curve, which we regard as
unsustainable over the long run. We keep a neutral position on base metals until we see further
confirmation of a pickup in Chinese economic activity.

The outlook for ample supply in agricultural commodities, especially for corn, should still weigh on
the grain complex towards the end of the year. Some short-term price support from dry US Midwest
weather conditions in recent weeks is not altering our negative stance. Soft commodities are also
battling with higher inventories, which will not bode well for prices in 3Q 2012.

For further information please contact CIO's asset class specialists Dominic Schnider, dominic.schnider@ubs.com or Giovanni Staunovo, giovanni.staunovo@ubs.com

Preferences (6 months)

underweight neutral overweight

Commodities Tid

total

Precious

Metals

energy |

Base Metals

Agricultural

Bnew old

Source: UBS CIO, as of 22 June 2012

Note: Past performance is not an indication of future returns.

34

Please see important disclaimer and disclosures at the end of the document.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024169
