Fugitive | 109

resulted in an international incident but did not change the fact that
Snowden was still in the custody of Russian authorities.

Snowden came to realize that those assisting him, including
Assange and Harrison, were taking serious risks. “Anyone ina three-
mile radius [of me] is going to get hammered,” he later said in 2015
to a reporter from Vogue. (After finally leaving Snowden in Moscow
on November 3, 2013, Harrison moved to Berlin, where she set up
an organization to provide, as she termed it, “an underground rail-
road” for other fugitives who had made available documents expos-
ing government secrets.)

Snowden was sequestered in the transit zone of the Moscow air-
port for thirty-seven days. A Russian intermediary provided him
with a Russian classic to read while awaiting asylum. It was Fyodor
Dostoyevsky’s Crime and Punishment, whose protagonist, Rodion
Romanovich Raskolnikov, is a dissenter who believes breaking the
law is morally justified by the unfair abuses of the political system.

Snowden received official sanctuary in Russia on August 1, 2013.
His public statements in Hong Kong that he was willing to go to

© prison so that others could live freely in a democratic society were, ©
as it turned out, mere rhetoric. Instead of risking prison, he had suc-
cessfully escaped to a country in which he would be treated as a hero
for defying the U.S. government. He had not sacrificed himself; he
had transformed himself. He had risen from being a lowly techni-
cian in Hawaii whose talents went largely unrecognized to the status
of an international media star in Moscow. In his new role, he could
make Internet appearances via Skype to prestigious gatherings, such
as the TED conference, where he would be roundly applauded as an
Internet hero, as well as be paid a $20,000 fee for just his electronic
participation. He would be beamed into dozens of ACLU meetings
where he was celebrated as a defender of American liberty. He would
describe to sympathetic audiences in Germany, Norway, and France
the unfairness of the American legal system, asserting that it was
denying him a “fair trial.” He would now make front-page news
by granting interviews to The New York Times, The Washington
Post, The Nation, and other publications. He would join Poitras and
Greenwald on the board of directors of the Freedom of the Press
Foundation. He would be the subject of an Oscar-winning documen-

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 109 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019597
