In a competitive world with limited resources, our desire system never rests. This is a good thing
as it motivates us to take care of our self-interests and strive for bigger and better. But a desire system
that never sleeps is a system that 1s motivated to accrue ever larger coffers or power. To satisfy this
inflationary need is often not possible without harming others, either directly or indirectly. To offset the
costs of harming another, desire recruits denial. This is a recipe for evil and the creation of excessive
harms. It is a recipe that takes two, often benign and highly adaptive ingredients that are essential for
motivating action and promoting survival, and combines them into an explosive outcome. Seen in this
way, our capacity for evil is as great as our capacity for love and compassion. Evil is part of human
nature, a capacity that can’t be denied. What I will show is both how this capacity works, and how some
of us, due to biological inheritance and environmental influence, are more likely to end up as evildoers.

Historical material on the lives of Franz Stangl and Adolf Eichmann, leaders in the Nazi
annihilation of Jews, illustrates how desire and denial combine within individual minds to create
excessive harms. Although this is a historical example, focused on the lives of only two men, stories like
theirs have been recounted hundreds of times, all over the globe and across time. This pattern points to
common mechanisms, identified in detail by the sciences of human nature.

Stangl was a politically motivated man with a burning desire to climb to the top of the Nazi
hierarchy. A clear path opened when he was appointed commander of the Polish prison Treblinka.
Unbeknownst to Stangl, Treblinka was one of the Nazi’s concentration death camps. To fulfill his desire
for power therefore required harming thousands of others, or more accurately, commanding Nazi soldiers
to harm others on his behalf. But since Stangl had no burning desire to harm the Jews, he dehumanized
them, transforming living, breathing, feeling, and thinking people into lifeless “cargo” — his own
expression. Stang] was dry-eyed as officers under his command killed close to one million Jews, one
third of them children. The reward? Power and status within the Nazi hierarchy. The death of innocent
Jews was a foreseen consequence of Stangl’s desire for power, not his direct goal.

Eichmann, Lieutenant Colonel in the Nazi regime, was considered one of the central architects of
the Final Solution, the master plan for the extermination of Jews. Eichmann denied Jews their humanity
by championing the pamphlets and posters that portrayed them as vermin and parasites. This
dehumanizing transformation empowered Eichmann’s belief that cleansing was the only solution to
German integrity and power. Eichmann’s reward? Elimination of the Jews. Unlike Stangl, killing Jews
was rewarding. As the historian Yaacov Lozowick stated “Eichmann and his ilk did not come to murder
Jews by accident or in a fit of absent-mindedness, nor by blindly obeying orders or by being small cogs in
a big machine. They worked hard, thought hard, took the lead over many years. They were the alpinists of

evil.”

Hauser Prologue. Evilution 16

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012762
