COWEN
COLLABORATIVE INSIGHTS

76

February 25, 2019

supplements, regardless of whether the substances are hemp-derived. This is because
both CBD and THC are active ingredients in FDA-approved drugs and were the subject
of substantial clinical investigations before they were marketed as foods or dietary
supplements. Under the FD&C Act, it’s illegal to introduce drug ingredients like these
into the food supply, or to market them as dietary supplements. This is a requirement
that we apply across the board to food products that contain substances that are active
ingredients in any drug.

In response to Gottlieb’s statement, Sens. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) and Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.)
sent a letter to the FDA on Jan. 15 urging the agency to update federal regulations
governing the use and interstate sale of certain hemp-derived ingredients in food,
beverages or dietary supplements. The two senators, who authored the 2018 Farm Bill’s
Hemp Farming Act provision, indicated that it was “Congress’ intent to ensure that both
U.S. producers and consumers have access to a full range of hemp-derived products,
including hemp-derived cannabinoids.” They requested feedback from FDA within 30
days on the agency’s specific plans regarding implementation of the 2018 Farm Bill.

Sample Of FDA Warning Letters On CBD Products:
https://www.fda.gov/ICECI/EnforcementActions/WarningLetters/ucm616278.htm

https://www.fda.gov/ICEC|/EnforcementActions/WarningLetters/2017/ucm583192 ht
m

https://www.fda.gov/ICEC|/EnforcementActions/WarningLetters/2017/ucm583197.ht
m

Notable State-Level Events
California

California has historically been more aligned with the FDA's stance that industrial hemp-
derived CBD cannot be used in food or dietary supplements. However, that state does
permit the sale of food products with cannabis-derived CBD in licensed dispensaries.
The Food and Drug Branch of California Department of Public Health (CDPH) issued an
updated FAQ on CBD in food products in July 2018 indicating that its definition of “food”
does not include cannabis products like edibles, which are legal in California. CDPH also
technically bans the sale of CBD oil outside of licensed cannabis retailers, though it isn’t
always enforced.

Separately, California Governor Jerry Brown signed a law in late September 2018
(Assembly Bill 2914) that bans the addition of CBD or THC to any cocktail at a public
establishment. The new law “prohibit[s] an alcoholic beverage licensee from, at its
licensed premises, selling, offering, or providing cannabis or cannabis products, including
an alcoholic beverage that contains cannabis or cannabis products, and would provide
that no alcoholic beverage shall be manufactured, sold, or offered for sale if it contains
tetrahydrocannabinol or cannabinoids, regardless of source.”

COWEN.COM

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024892
