I recently had dinner with a former partner. At one point we found ourselves having a
very explicit conversation, and I mentioned that I've figured out how to come. He looked
sad and apologized: I'm sorry I was never able to get you there. I had no idea what to
say.

te OK ok

VI. S&M, Redux

I finally came into my BDSM identity around age 20. At first, when I was faced with the
fact that I wanted to be hurt until I cried and begged for mercy, I freaked out. I had no
idea what to do about BDSM, no idea how to feel about it. The only thing I knew for sure
was that I'd found something I really needed. But what did that mean for me, when I was
also trying hard to be an independent, rational feminist with self-esteem and integrity?

It took me years to parse out my thoughts on feminism and BDSM, to feel comfortable
with BDSM, and to talk openly and comfortably about it. During that process, I got better
and better at finding partners who were interested in my sexual desires and willing to
experiment. I also got to the point of reading sexuality advice books on my own,
including books specifically on BDSM. (For recommendations, please check the notes at
the beginning of this book.)

And I gritted my teeth, forced down my anxiety, and looked into books about the female
orgasm.

One book that came highly recommended from Amazon.com was Lonnie Barbach's For
Yourself. By the time I was halfway through the first chapter, I was crying because what
she wrote felt so true. At the end of the first chapter, I put it down and was never able to
pick it up again. Barbach wrote compassionately about experiences very similar to mine
-- for instance: /Are you afraid to talk to your partner about your problem] because
you're embarrassed to ask for what you want at a particular time; afraid your partner
will refuse, get angry, or feel emasculated?

But she also ended the first chapter this way: You have to assume responsibility and be
somewhat assertive. Our culture has taught us that a woman should depend on a man to
take care of her, which means she can blame him for any mistakes. It's nice to be driven
around in a car, but it's also nice to be able to drive yourself so you can go where you
want to, when you want to. But to do that, you'd have to assume some responsibility.

It was the same let go and keep trying” advice I'd been coming across for years, except
that now it was wrapped up in a nice package of assumptions about me: implications that
I wasn't assuming responsibility or being assertive. I felt like she was telling me that I
chose to depend on a man to take care of me.

Maybe it would have been okay if the rest of the chapter hadn't been so miserably true,
but the combination of reading a bunch of truth about how I was feeling -- then being told
that I wasn't trying hard enough, that I was choosing to avoid responsibility.... It was
toxic.

I also had the bright idea of asking my gynecologist. The doctor rolled her eyes as I
spoke, then told me that the problem was obviously my partners. When I insisted that I

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018504
