4.4 Hybrid Cognitive Architectures 77

Monolithic:symbolic component sits on top of neural component and
World < > Neural | a, = | Symbolic
Hybrid:neural and symbolic components confront the world side by side
a > Neural
A
World
¥
« » | Symbolic |

Tightly interactive hybrid:neural and symbolic components interact
frequently, on the same time scale as their internal learning operations

Fig. 4.8: Broad categories of neural-symbolic architecture

Within the scope of hybrid neural-symbolic systems, there is another axis which Bader and
Hitzler do not focus on, because the main interest of their review is in monolithic systems. We
call this axis interactivity’, and what we are referring to is the frequency of high-information-
content, high-influence interaction between the neural and symbolic components in the hybrid
system. In a low-interaction hybrid system, the neural and symbolic components don’t exchange
large amounts of mutually influential information all that frequently, and basically act like
independent system components that do their learning/reasoning /thinking periodically sending
each other their conclusions. In some cases, interaction may be asymmetric: one component may
frequently send a lot of influential information to the other, but not vice versa. However, our
hypothesis is that the most capable neural-symbolic systems are going to be the symmetrically
highly interactive ones.

In a symmetric high-interaction hybrid neural-symbolic system, the neural and symbolic
components exchange influential information sufficiently frequently that each one plays a major
role in the other one’s learning /reasoning/thinking processes. Thus, the learning processes of
each component must be considered as part of the overall dynamic of the hybrid system. The
two components aren’t just feeding their outputs to each other as inputs, they’re mutually
guiding each others’ internal processing.

One can make a speculative argument for the relevance of this kind of architecture to neuro-
science. It seems plausible that this kind of neural-symbolic system roughly emulates the kind
of interaction that exists between the brain’s neural subsystems implementing localist symbolic
processing, and the brain’s neural subsystems implementing globalist, classically “connection-
ist” processing. It seems most likely that, in the brain, symbolic functionality emerges from
an underlying layer of neural dynamics. However, it is also reasonable to conjecture that this
symbolic functionality is confined to a functionally distinct subsystem of the brain, which then

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012993
