TIIC team. TIIC 2 is also supported by a number of existing investors, together with several European
insurance companies, pension funds and family offices. A second close is planned in the coming months and
the final close will occur before the end of 2017. We have received significant interest from a number of
European institutional investors, many of which are in the process of completing detailed due diligence on
TIIC 2. We are firmly on track to achieve a final close of TIIC 2 before the end of the year.

Furthermore, TIIC has announced the first exit from Fund 1, with outstanding returns. Three other
investments are in sales processes and should close during the next few months.

BRIDGE

BRIDGE is an infrastructure debt platform initiated by Edmond de Rothschild Asset Management (EdRAM) to
enable institutional investors to access infrastructure assets with secured and stable revenue streams. BRIDGE
is a London based second generation debt fund sourcing and structuring transactions directly from sponsors
when feasible and one of the few independent debt teams only investing on behalf of clients. The BRIDGE team
has the ability to execute and deliver transactions as efficiently as traditional lenders as well as negotiate terms
and conditions bringing optimised yield and security to investors.

The BRIDGE platform was set up as a new leg of EDR’s Infrastructure, Real Assets & Structured Finance Team
striving to take advantage of the expertise of the infrastructure sector acquired when the team became a global
leader in PPP & Transport infrastructure financial advisory in 2011 and 2012.

The BRIDGE platform raised € 400m of new monies in 2016 and has successfully reached the €1bn mark of
Assets under Management at the end of 2016. The platform comprises three investment vehicles (French FCT
and Lux SIF) and is currently fundraising for additional pockets of liquidity:

o BRIDGE I reached final closing in December 2014 with approximately €600m of aggregate commitments from a club

of institutional investors.

o BRIDGE | Dedicated Compartmentis a vehicle created by a large European institution and anchor investor of the first
fund with a €250m target amount available for deployment.

o BRIDGE II reached first close in December 2016 with €150m of commitments in order to invest in three transactions.
Fundraising for BRIDGE II is still ongoing, targeting a group of institutional investors in Europe and elsewhere, with final
target size of €600m.

The BRIDGE platform has a long-term European investment strategy and a mandate to cover all sectors of
infrastructure, notably energy, renewables, utilities, transportation, telecommunications and_ social

infrastructure and can execute project financing, refinancing and acquisition finance transactions.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026061
