Telecom: supporting a move to higher
connectivity

Hootan Yazhari, CFA >>
Merrill Lynch (DIFC)
hootan.yazhari@baml.com

Table 15: Key NTP objectives for the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology

2020 Regional Int'l

No. Strategic objective Key Performance Indicator (KPI) Unit Baseline target ervante trwarte

Provide critical resources, especially frequency Percentage of frequency spectrum available for
1 spectrum for Information telecommunications —_ telecommunication services out of the total allocated % 42 80 NA >90
and Technology services telecommunication services
Percentage of FTTH coverage in densely
populated urban areas
Percentage of FTTH coverage in urban areas % 12 55 >90 >80
Percentage of wireless broadband networks’ coverage (more % 42 70 NA 74
than 10 Mbps) in remote areas
Maturity level of the government services transformation to
Develop and activate smart government e-services
transactions based on a common infrastructure KSA’s rank in the United Nations index for the development % 36 25 48 1
of e-government
4 Bridge the digital gap in the skills of ICT users Percentage of internet users in KSA % 63.7 85 90.4 87.9

Source: National Transformation Plan

Provide broadband services to all KSA regions
by stimulating investment in infrastructure and
developing tools, technical and regulatory
frameworks

% 44 80 >95 >90

% 44 85 NA NA

NTP helps increase penetration of higher margin offerings
We believe the National Transformation Plan will herald significant change for the Saudi
telecom sector over the next five years. In particular, its focus on increasing access to
high speed internet (via wireless and fibre) should underpin a material uplift in data
usage and broadband penetration levels. Given these offerings represent the highest
margin services provided by the telecom service providers, we believe the move towards
a more data intensive society should be supportive for industry margins. Furthermore,
with the NTP’s plans relying heavily on private sector investment (including STC), we
believe it could accelerate the spin out of tower portfolios from the three telecom
players in the Kingdom (as a way of raising financing).

Government investment set to exceed US$2bn

As part of the National transformation plan, the government is seeking to invest more
than US$2bn in the expansion of wireless (3G & 4G) and fibre infrastructure (FTTH)
across the kingdom. Whilst the finer details on how this expenditure will be deployed
(e.g. via grants or via direct investments?) have yet to be disclosed, details of the NTP
suggest it will be used to expand connectivity in the remote areas of Saudi Arabia (given
the telecom companies have largely avoided such expenditure in the past given low
returns), as well as increasing network density in developed and urban areas.

Spectrum increases an indication of ambitious growth

The government is also looking to significantly enhance the availability of spectrum to
the telecom industry (from 42% to 80% of total spectrum allocated), highlighting the
expected surge in data usage in the Kingdom to 2020 and beyond. Whilst data usage in
the Kingdom has been rapidly growing in recent years on the back of high speed rollouts
(3G & LTE), demand still lags global and regional averages (as indicated by data as a
percentage of total mobile revenues). Ultimately, we believe this will have a number of
effects including: (1) Saudi Arabia will further increase its focus on high speed offerings,
(LTE/LTEA and eventually 5G); (2) capex cycles will likely lengthen as telecom companies
intensify their rollout of coverage; and, (3) tower density will likely have to increase
across the key demand centres.

48 GEMs Paper #26 | 30 June 2016 3S Merrill Lynch

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016158
