Evolution of social connection by
communication

The human social brain
constructs connection and understanding
by anthropomorphic projection as
discussed by Nick Epley in his chapter.
When we observe the behavior of
nonhuman entities, anthropomorphic
projection may form a feeling of social
connection. Social connection depends
in part on empathic responses to
observed action. It has been argued that
this same foundation is the basis for the
evolution of language as well--observed
action may be the foundation for
language.”

A mirror neuron theory of the
evolution of language starts with the
assumption that we understand others by
observing their actions. Communication
depends on the regularization of typical
actions that can be pantomimed. In
principle this could lead to a kind of
manual gestural system of
communication akin to sign language.
Hand and arm movements can depict a
wide range of actions both by first-
person depiction of an action such as
screwing the top onto a jar and by third-
person depictions such as using the
fingers to portray a person walking.
Hand and arm postures can depict
objects such as a cupped hand
representing a bowl. Combining
sequences of such object and action
depictions can communicate relatively
complex messages even without a
formal language. This is a far cry from
sign languages in which the mapping
between hand shapes and movements is
not visually transparent in this way. But
as the pressure to communicate a
broader range of messages increases, a
manual gestural language would have to
be modified to reflect more abstract

Page |71

symbols ultimately leading in the
direction of a sign language.

However, this kind of manual
language has one major drawback.
Communication depends on visual
contact. In order to understand a
gestural message it is necessary to see
the hand movements. This limits the
distances over which communication can
take place. Moreover, a communication
system that is effective for a group
should not depend on face-to-face
dyadic interaction, but allow for more
broadcast communications. There is a
great survival advantage in being able to
maintain social connection and convey
information over distances that go well
beyond face-to-face communication.

Many species of fish,
amphibians, reptiles, birds, and
mammals commonly exchange
information at a distance through
vocalizations. The learned songs (and
some calls) of songbirds are particularly
rich sources of information conveying,
to the receiver, individual identity and a
host of other characteristics of the
sender. Some mammals exchange
information at great distances through
calling behavior. Humpback whale
vocalizations are perceived over
extremely long distances and may be
used to maintain social groups at
distances as great as 5 km. African
elephants can recognize friends and
relatives from their calls at a distance of
2.5 km. Human sheepherders keep each
other company from the top of one
mountain to another in the Canary
Islands using a whistled language called
Silbo Gomero. Whether for purposes of
mating, threat, warning, or social
organization, conveying information
regarding location, identity and
motivation, and directed at one
individual or towards far-flung groups,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021317
