GREGKADELSTUDIOS
Wt treed Bd fc new yooh Spt E713 z¥0 W274
Lied EARLS STA.

RE: 0-2 Nan-inepigrant Vie Petition on behalf of Jean Loc Bruel
Dear iz or Maden:

‘This better ix written to support the vin application of Juan Las Brumel eo that be may be accorded 0-1
extraordinary sizility thew stant to contizuc to expand opos hes already ouletanding muzneds in the
worldwide frshion industry. Tem the Production Manager af Geag Kade] Studice, and have warked
with such cliente as Vogue Italia, Numéro, dateevinw, Vogue Garinatty, InStyle) ancl Allure

ran Loe Brone) hee boone increasingly well coon in our field as someone whe wil’ tofliihly
neanage and direct fesdion thodels for cients, photographers, ete. Mr. Jenn Loc Eero} has a intined
eye to eelont the most appropeivic models to be used in on advertising campaign, and subsequently has
the ability tn manage all stages of the eneiplar process of producing tbe tight prodel foe a
besuriful models. As a
aqd ot}er cruatre

job. Therefore, the quailty of bis work ts (ncrlble as he (sable to find the
result, he ia fest becoming one of the professionals of choice for the fashion §
inciuertries.

7a Tay opinion, Jean Lae Bronal, is ceayly ap imtividual of extraordinary abili in the fiebd of art, und
the position be will aveurne ba the United States cearky requites an individual zy obdlity tn
this Geld. Mir. Brunel fun feet internationally knew and recognized for bis umiqne taloat amd
ewpertive, tha modals he finds regularly appearing tn the meet prestigious fushlon pubis around
the world guch a9 Fle Maganinr, Cosmopolitun, Macy's, Nurcstrom. Me. 6 eee
major cdSents lave secured bim « poeiticn as ene of the leading dinectors ind talest coordingtors
worklng taday. [tis aleo toy opinion that the sesponmbitities and dutics of an international art director,
who colishorates with the mat distinguished maguanes and advestising clients, require an tnctidual
of extraordinary abétity and accompiishovenis such as Mr. Jeub Luc Brueel,

gente an 0-1 vento work in the United fates, Jean Le Boel nl anne tein bin phere
talent to the Arearionn muriet.

Please do cot heslieis to comart ne with any quesrane.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011993
