Tax

The surprising results of yesterday’s election have teed
up comprehensive tax reform asa clear priority for the
new Republican President and the Republican Congress.
A unified Republican government makes the process of
achieving significant tax reform much more manageable
next year, in particular because Speaker Ryan during the
campaign pledged to move such a plan in the form of so-
called budget reconciliation legislation, which would mean
that only a simple majority of senators would be
necessary to pass the plan, rather than the usual 60-vote
majority. Alot of the groundwork has been laid through
proposals and negotiationsover the last three or four
years on various key aspects of businesstax reform, but
Congressional Republican leaders and the new President
will have to decide whether to push forward with
legislation that embodies the House Republican Tax
Reform Blueprint, or the outlines of atax reform plan that
President-elect Trump championed during the campaign.
One significant difference is that the Blueprint, according
to its authors, is largely revenue neutral using dynamic
scoring, while the Trump plan was scored by various non-
governmental groups as losing trillions of dollars.

House Speaker Ryan has said on multiple occasions that
tax reform is his top priority. The Blueprint, the sixth and
final plank of Ryan’s “Better Way” campaign to provide
policy alternatives, proposed a 20%statutory corporate
tax rate, a 25%businesstax rate for pass-through
entities, a move toward a cash-flow consumption tax
through immediate expensing for all businesses and
elimination of deductibility of net interest expense, a
territorial international tax system, a border tax
adjustment mechanism, and elimination of most business
preferences except the R&D tax credit and LIFO.
Interestingly, all of these pieces of businesstax reform
may be fair game in discussions with Democrats, but the
two parties differ greatly over whether to reduce
individual tax rates —a key component of both the
Blueprint and the Trump campaign agenda —and over
important revenue issues, including whether reform
should be revenue neutral on a static basis, and whether
timing and one-timerevenue raisers should be used to
pay for permanent tax rate reduction. The use of budget
reconciliation, however, could make many of these
differencesirrelevant as Senate Democrats could have
little power to change or block the legislation on the
Senate floor.

Along with the 20%statutory corporate tax rate, the
Blueprint includes a 25 %business tax rate for pass-
through entities; and individual rates set at 12% 25% and
33%

Ways and Means Republican tax staff is in the process of
receiving feedback and building out the tax reform
Blueprint by drafting detailed statutory language. The
publicly expressed goal isto have that effort completed
by the end of 2016. In October 14 remarks at University
of Wisconsin-Madison, House Speaker Ryan said, “| really
want to get tax reform running as quickly as possible..:

Asked September 29 whether there is opportunity for
progress on big-ticket itemsin 2017, Senate Majority
Leader McConnell said, “We need to do tax-reform —
comprehensive tax-reform —not piecemeal.”

Trump's tax plan differs from the Blueprint in that the
corporate tax rate would be lower —15%-—with the same
rate imposed on pass through entities. The latest
statement from the Trump campaign suggests that small
business owners do not retain earnings may face double
taxation.

Individual income tax rates would be 12% 25% and 33%
the same as the House Republican tax reform Blueprint.

Trump and his staff have supported a 10%tax rate on the
deemed repatriation of previously untaxed foreign
earnings of US companies, but the campaign never made
clear whether they still support repeal of deferral ina new
international tax system going forward.

Trump has pledged to work with House Republicans on
tax issues and, in addition to adopting their proposed
individual rates, brought his plan closer to theirs by
announcing support for immediate expensing of new
business investments for manufacturers. The House plan
proposed expensing in conjunction with eliminating the
deductibility of net interest expense. In the follow-up toa
September 15 speech to the Economic Club of New York,
Trump clarified that he believes expensing should be
limited to manufacturers and those who elect expensing
will lose the deductibility of corporate interest expense.

The Trump campaign also clarified in September that they
favored repeal of most corporate tax expenditures,
except for the R&D Credit. While continuing to call for
repeal of the estate tax, Trump proposed disallowing a
step-up in basis for estates over $10 million: “The Trump
plan will repeal the death tax, but capital gains held until
death will be subject to tax, with the first $10 million tax-
free as under current law to exempt small businesses and
family farms. To prevent abuse, contributions of
appreciated assets into a private charity established by
the decedent or the decedent’s relatives will be
disallowed.”

EY 13

| Election 2016

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022385
