52 Teaching Minds

form a judgment, and later they may get to see whether their judg-
ment is correct. When asked, they can tell you clear reasons (typically
post hoc justifications) as to why they decided the way they did. The
wine expert can say reasons as well, but the evidence for taste is not
really all that objective. (Of course, the evidence may be found after
the judgment is made. People are not always entirely rational.)

To learn to make objective judgments, one needs constant feed-
back either from a teacher or from a colleague or from reality. One
needs to think about what was decided and why. People who are good
at this are good at it because they have analyzed their successes and
failures and they can articulate their reasoning. Learning requires re-
peated practice.

SOCIAL PROCESSES

1. Influence: Understanding how others respond to your requests
and recognizing consciously and unconsciously how to improve
the process

Human interaction is one of the most important skills of all. We
regularly interact with family, friends, colleagues, bosses, romantic in-
terests, professors, service personnel, and strangers. Communicating
effectively is very important to any success we might want to have in
any area of life. But, we do not know why we say what we say, nor do
we really understand how we are being perceived by others. We just
talk and listen and go on our way. Some people are loved by everyone
and others are despised. It is wrong to assume that we know what
image we project or that we are easily capable of altering the way we
behave so that we will be perceived differently.

How do we learn to become conscious of inherently unconscious
behavior? One can learn to behave differently if one becomes con-
sciously aware of the mistakes one is making. Watching others, watch-
ing oneself, thinking about how to improve—all this helps one make
subconscious behavior into conscious behavior.

We unintentionally return to standard ways of acting in various
situations. A wallflower at a party doesn’t decide to be a wallflower—it
is simply behavior she is comfortable with. If no one is harmed by

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023798
