Mind over Computer 43

British readers — and you roll it once around the wheel of your car. The
small sweet will turn many times. Now put a pencil through the hole
in the sweet, jack up your car so the wheel is off the ground, hold the
sweet next to the wheel of your car and press the accelerator. The sweet
will spin round very fast and probably disintegrate in a shower of minty
sugar. This is the principle of gearing. A small circle has to do a lot of
work to keep up with a big circle. It’s very predictable. The sweet will turn
a set number of times for each rotation of the car wheel, equal to the ratio
of the circumferences of the two circles.

Gears usually have teeth to lock the wheels together, but this is really
just to make sure they can’t slip against one another when they transfer
huge forces, such as in racing cars. Some passenger cars have been built
with smooth gears; a friend of mine had one at university. If he put his
foot down too hard, the gears would slip, heat up and you would get a
terrific smell of burning rubber. If you were lucky you could leave the car
for a few hours and all would be well. But, if not, you had to replace the
rubber belt, which was very expensive. Toothed gears generally win out.

Toothed gears also have the enormous benefit of being digital. This
is quite important if you want to keep things accurate. Gears can’t move
a fraction of a tooth so if a toothed gear has ‘slipped’ forward a small
amount, it will be kicked back into position when it meshes with another
gear.

In a modern mechanical clock, a balance wheel swings back and
forth on a spring and moves the main gear one notch forward each time
it passes its central position. Gears divide this down to move the hour and
minute hands. If I put the hands of a clock at midday and let the clock
tick 86,400 times, the clock hands will come back to the same place. Once
you understand how a clock works you can play a trick. If you tell me the
number of ticks the clock has tocked, I can tell you the exact position the
hands will be in. To a small child this might be dressed up as a magicians
trick — but, of course, it is simply a matter of dividing the number of ticks
by 60 and then 60 again to calculate the amount of time elapsed. This
type of precisely predictable behavior is called deterministic behavior.
Something is deterministic if you can set it up in a particular way and
know the exact state later or, conversely, examine something and trace it
back into the past.

Modern computers scale up clockwork and make it much more
efficient; gears are translated into electronic logic gates and a quartz
crystal vibrates at 1000 million ticks per second to give us the clock tick.
On each tick, the computer can do a mathematical operation, store and
retrieve information, or branch down an avenue in its program. Using

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015733
