James PATTERSON

good life. Parties in Vegas; weekends in the Hamptons; affairs with
beautiful women that end up getting splashed all over the tabloids.

It makes sense that, once upon a time, he and Epstein would
have gotten along.

“As for the girls,” Meister says, “that was just business. He'd
seat them strategically at client dinners. When he went to the
movies, he'd take three or four girls with him. They'd take turns
massaging his back, arms, and legs.”

According to Meister, Epstein used to boast that he “liked to
go into insane asylums because he liked to fuck crazy women.”

“Who knows if it’s true?” Meister adds. “But Tm telling you,

he used to say it.”

From time to time, Epstein’s friends and acquaintances would

see sides of Epstein that he’d grown much less shy about sharing.

Epstein encouraged Alan Dershowitz to invest with a prominent
hedge-fund managet named Orin Kramer. Dershowitz did, and he
made a lot of money at first. But in 2008, the fund Dershowitz had
invested in lost a substantial amount. Afterward, according to a for-
mer associate of Epstein’s, Epstein appeared in Kramer's midtown
Manhattan office. There, sources say, he told Kramer: “It’s very much
in your interest to make Alan Dershowitz whole.”

Epstein’s intervention worked, and Dershowitz recovered his

money.

To people who'd known Epstein back in the 1980s, this kind of q
behavior was out of character. But the thing about Epstein was 4
that you never could figure him out. One minute he was charming. ;

154

Fittr

The most charming man you'd
threat, and bluster. Somethin,
numbers: this many parties, t
connection to Victoria’s Secret,
Throw in the modeling ag

you plug in the parties. The sce
But the thing is, Eyes Wide Shi
Epstein, getting on that plan
moment in Caddyshack —the «
out from his hole in the golf

Epstein was like the mole in a;
a matter of time before he'd be

to ask yourself was, are peopl

als? Or are their morals like
shed (along with all the other
everyday working people have.
Eyes Wide Shut world?

Todd Meister, who was marri:
heiress Samantha Boardman
editorial director James Trumz
loud:
“How does a yutz like Epste
At Harry Cipriani, the ques

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010497
