Glossary of Specialized Terms 341

not be considered as “sensory” (on the other hand, speech audio data would be considered
as sensory”).

Short Term Importance: A value associated with each Atom, indicating roughly the
expected utility to the system of keeping that Atom in RAM rather than saving it to disk
or deleting it. It’s possible to have multple LTI values pertaining to different time scales,
but so far practical implementation and most theory has centered on the option of a single
LTI value.

Similarity: a link type indicating the probabilistic similarity between two different Atoms.
Generically this is a combination of Intensional Similarity (similarity of properties) and
Extensional Similarity (similarity of members).

Simple Truth Value: a TruthValue involving a pair (s,d) indicating strength (e.g. proba-
bility or fuzzy set membership) and confidence d. d may be replaced by other options such
as a count n or a weight of evidence w.

e Simulation World: See Internal Simulation World

e SMEPH (Self-Modifying Evolving Probabilistic Hypergraphs): a style of modeling
systems, in which each system is associated with a derived hypergraph

SMEPH Edge: A link ina SMEPH derived hypergraph, indicating an empirically observed
relationship (e.g. inheritance or similarity) between two

SMEPH Vertex: A node in a SMEPH derived hypergraph representing a system, indicat-
ing a collection of system states empirically observed to arise in conjunction with the same
external stimuli

Spatial Inference: PLN reasoning including Atoms that explicitly reference spatial rela-
tionships

Spatiotemporal Inference: PLN reasoning including Atoms that explicitly reference spa-
tial and temporal relationships

e STI: Shorthand for Short Term Importance

e Strength: The main component of a TruthValue object, lying in the interval [0,1], refer-
ring either to a probability (in cases like InheritanceLink, SimilarityLink, EquivalenceLink,
ImplicationLink, etc.) or a fuzzy value (as in MemberLink, EvaluationLink).

Strong Self-Modification: This is generally used as synonymous with Self-Modification,
in a CogPrime context.

Subsymbolic: Involving processing of data using elements that have no correspondence to
natural language terms, nor abstract concepts; and that are not naturally interpreted as
symbolically “standing for’ other things. Often used to refer to processes such as perception
processing or motor control, which are concerned with entities like pixels or commands like
“rotate servomotor 15 by 10 degrees theta and 55 degrees phi.” The distinction between
“symbolic” and subsymbolic” is conventional in the history of AI, but seems difficult to
formalize rigorously. Logic-based AI systems are typically considered “symbolic”, yet
Supercompilation: A technique for program optimization, which globally rewrites a pro-
gram into a usually very different looking program that does the same thing. A prototype
supercompiler was applied to Combo programs with successful results.

Surface Realization: The process of taking a collection of Atoms and transforming them
into a series of words in a (usually natural) language. A stage in the overall process of
language generation.

Symbol Grounding: The mapping of a symbolic term into perceptual or motoric entities
that help define the meaning of the symbolic term. For instance, the concept Cat” may be

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013257
