In April, he resigned from his RNC position in the wake of a report that he had paid a former
Playboy model $1.6 million in exchange for her silence about a sexual affair. Trump’s
personal attorney, Michael Cohen — another RNC fundraiser — helped arrange the
settlement, Broidy acknowledged.

[RNC deputy finance chair steps down after admitting Trump’s lawyer negotiated settlement
between him and pregnant Playboy model]

Cohen is under investigation by federal prosecutors in Manhattan who are examining
whether he fraudulently obtained millions of dollars in loans and whether his efforts to
squash negative stories about Trump during the campaign violated election law.

Broidy’s business dealings captured the attention of investigators for special counsel Robert
S. Mueller III, who asked at least one witness about Broidy’s activities, according to a
person familiar with the matter.

Broidy’s attempts to solve high-level headaches for the Chinese and Malaysian governments
were first reported this spring by the Wall Street Journal and the New York Times, which
cited in part a cache of hacked emails.

Broidy has said the documents were stolen by enemies seeking to ruin his reputation.

“This whole narrative is a fabrication driven by hackers who want to undermine me,” Broidy
said in a statement to the Times. Earlier this year, he filed a lawsuit against the country of
Qatar, alleging that it hacked his email accounts in retaliation for his allegations that Qatar
supports terrorists. A spokesman for the Qatari government has called the suit “without fact
or merit.”

The Journal reported in March that, according to a draft contract, Broidy and his wife, Robin
Rosenzweig, were seeking $75 million from Malaysian businessman Jho Low if federal
prosecutors dropped their investigation into a Malaysian state investment fund.

The Justice Department has filed civil suits claiming $4.5 billion in public money was
misappropriated from the fund, 1 Malaysia Development Berhad, seeking to claim a portion
of those assets. Last month, Malaysian authorities charged f ormer prime minister Najib
Razak with embezzling billions in public money from the fund.

Clark, the Broidy attorney, told The Journal that Rosenzweig’s firm had been hired to
provide strategic advice to Low, adding that “at no time did Mr. Broidy or Ms. Rosenzweig,
or anyone acting on their behalf, discuss Mr. Low’s case with President Trump, any member
of his staff, or anyone at the U.S. Department of Justice.”

The Times reported in April that Broidy had explored ways to force Chinese exile Guo
Wengui to leave the United States. The billionaire businessman had fled China in 2014 as he
was facing arrest for a range of charges, including corruption. Guo has said the allegations
were fabricated by a government that wants to silence him.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031766
