Case 9:08-cv-80736-KAM Document 306 Entered on FLSD Docket 02/02/2015 Page 3 of 19

At bottom, Jane Doe #3’s Response is nothing but a paper-thin pastiche of conspiracy
theory and outright misrepresentation that crumbles upon examination. Invocations of the Fifth
Amendment by nonparty witnesses in response to innocuous questions about Prof. Dershowitz
are said to take on a “sinister cast”; yet these same witnesses invoked their right against self-
incrimination to almost every question asked of them, including their parents’ names. Prof.
Dershowitz, as Epstein’s former legal counsel, is one of hundreds of people listed in an address
book purloined by Jeffrey Epstein’s criminal butler; yet because Prof. Dershowitz’s name is
circled in the address book by an unknown person for unknown reasons, the argument is made
that Prof. Dershowitz must have sexually abused a minor. The record shows that while Prof.
Dershowitz and Jane Doe #3 are both separately mentioned in the flight logs of Mr. Epstein’s
private plane, they are never listed on the same flight. Plaintiffs, in turn, falsely claim that
somehow Prof. Dershowitz single-handedly orchestrated the destruction of logs without any
evidence of ability or possibility to do so. The increasingly unfounded accusations and insults
are both sad and irresponsible.

It is precisely this toxic mix of irrelevancy, malicious falsehood, and empty accusation
that justifies Prof. Dershowitz’s intervention to, at least, strike the allegations against him. Jane
Doe #3 never had any need to drag Prof. Dershowitz into this action besides to wrongfully use
his good name and international stature to stir up media interest in her filing. This is
impertinence, plain and simple, and it has no place in this Court. Prof. Dershowitz therefore
urges the Court to either allow him to intervene to strike Jane Doe #3’s defamatory allegations or
deny Jane Doe #3’s Joinder Motion so she is no longer afforded the ability to use the docket of
this Court to defame others without being held accountable and strike these allegations from the

record.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010737
