There are a lot of things about pickup artistry that I really do not like. There were points
during my PUA adventures when I learned about incidents and strategies that blatantly
sound like rape. This is a huge can of worms, and I discussed it at great length in my
book. For now I will only note that there is an entire PUA area of inquiry called Last
Minute Resistance (or LMR): that is, what happens when a woman resists having sex.
Last Minute Resistance tactics (LMR tactics) are designed to convince a woman who
has expressed hesitance, distaste or discomfort to have sex anyway.

The first two 'no's don't mean much, and should be expected,” advises one PUA while
outlining LMR tactics. This is exactly the kind of thing that gives the community a bad
name. In fairness, some PUAs talk about trying to understand why a girl is
uncomfortable, and then addressing the root cause of her discomfort. For example, a PUA
might advise asking whether she is menstruating, and then reassuring her that he won't be
grossed out by having sex if she is. Some PUAs try to claim that most LMR tactics are
harmless and communicative, but this is a difficult claim to defend. I have always been
more impressed by the few PUAs who simply advocate respecting Last Minute
Resistance, such as David Shade:

Do not push against last minute resistance. You will be like all the other guys who
objectify women and do not respect her as a real person. And it will reek of desperation.

... In fact, move things along just slightly slower than she'd like it. Make her wait. It
builds that sexual tension, and it makes her think. When she is away from you, she is
going to think about it a lot.

Of course, while Shade is advising his clients to respect boundaries, he's advising them to
respect boundaries as a tactic for seducing the woman eventually. Another example of
this approach comes from Mark Manson, who appears more interested in respecting
women for the sake of respecting women, but whose main thrust is still seduction advice:

In [an LMR situation], there's always a fork in the road: you can do the typical freeze-
out/high-pressure PUA bullshit to try to manipulate her or annoy her into giving up the
resistance. Or you can be honest about the situation and resign yourself to accepting the
fact that you may not have sex tonight.

Guys, listen. Always, always, always go with the second option. It may sound counter-
intuitive, but you have to go with the second option. Not only because it's the right thing
to do. Not only because it's what any respectful human being should do. But because if
you make it clear that there is absolutely no pressure for her to sleep with you, if you
Show her that you can be trusted and that you're OK with whatever she decides (and by
the way, you do need to be OK with whatever she decides), then she's going to become
ten times more comfortable with you, and therefore is actually more likely to WANT to
have sex with you.

PUA frameworks and tactics are often consent-friendly. Many LMR tactics encourage
pushiness or even outright non-consensual behavior, such as ignoring the woman when
she says, No. Yet things I discussed in previous sections of this article — such as negs,”
and body-language kino tactics -- are clearly neutral: their usage is shaped mostly by
the goals of individual PUAs and the social context in which they occur. Discussions of

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018672
