Edwards adv. Epstein
Telephone interview with Virginia Roberts
Page 14 of 23

I’d start with his feet, go up to his calves, up his legs, buttocks, back, his neck, his head,
his arms, yada yada, and then it would be time to flip over, and some of the men would
want me to continue on massaging the front side of them and they would instigate me to
begin having sex with them or foreplay, whatever you want to call it.

JS: So routinely, these massages involved sexual activity. Is that accurate?

V: That is accurate.

JS: Ok. Let’s talk about the travel that you were involved in when you were on Jeffrey’s
private plane. Generally speaking, who were the passengers on the plane when you
traveled.

V: Well, Larry was the pilot, and then there was a short, small solid guy, I don’t know his
name, but he was a co-pilot, and then he changed and there was another guy brought in
later on. Generally speaking, there was always Jeffrey, sometimes Ghislaine, sometimes
Emmy, sometimes a whole bunch of other girls, sometimes famous people, sometimes
some politicians or yeah, just about anybody could fly on his plane. There was never no
any set routine who would come and who would go. It was an influx of people on
Jeffrey’s airplane.

JS: I want to deal with these things separately in order to respect some of the reservations
that you have, so I’m going to ask you who the people were that you remember flying
with Jeffrey on his plane when you were personally present without regard to whether
there was any sexual activity that occurred on the plane or not. So I’m not asking you to
implicate any of these famous people in improper conduct, but just tell me what the
names of the people are that you remember that you consider to be famous people.

V: Ok, there was Naomi Campbell, Heidi Klum, there was Bill Clinton. There was Al (?)
Gore, there was a whole bunch of models, I wouldn’t really honestly be able to give their
names. There was Matt Groning the producer of the simpons cartoon, Jack CCousteau’s
granddaughter a lot of interior designers, architects, politicians. I am just trying to think
of as many names as possible for you. Off the top of my head, that’s as good as I can get
for now.

JS: Ok, alright, that’s fine. And again, I am not implying by my questions, nor do I want
your answers to be interpreted as your suggesting that any of those people that you have
just identified were engaged in any improper activities on any particular flight, but I want
to talk to you now about what went on on occasion on the airplane. Ok?

V: Ok. It was a lot of the same thing that went down on the ground. A lot of times, it would
be just be me and Jeffrey, or me and Jeffrey and Ghislaine, or me and Jeffrey and some
other girl, sometimes Emmy, Sarah, and Nadia Bjournik. There would be sexual conduct,
there would be foreplay, there was a bed in there, so we could basically reenact exactly

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012120
