As a reminder, since 2001, rising oil prices have coincided with a gradual exhaustion of conventional oil to meet marginal
demand, sharp increases in operating and commodity input costs for oil companies, deeper exploratory and developmental
wells, reliance on a shrinking number of deepwater fields, rising E&P spending by US oil majors to meet rising EM
demand, etc. A simplified version of this dynamic appears below: as oil production rises to meet global demand, the
sources for the marginal barrel become more expensive and more complicated. Without getting into the whole Peak Oil
thing, I do think there is evidence that the marginal cost of oil will be a speed bump on growth in the years ahead,
if oil production has to rise over 90 million barrels per day to support demand and the building of strategic
reserves.

Output from the Congressional Centrifuge
In the midst of all the above, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi issued the following press release:

“Independent reports confirm that speculators are driving up the cost of oil, hurting consumers and potentially
damaging the economic recovery. Wall Street profiteering, not oil shortages, is the cause of the price spike. In fact,
U.S. oil production is at its highest level since 2003, and millions of acres have been cleared for additional
development. We need to take strong action to protect consumers from this speculation. Unfortunately,
Republicans have chosen to protect the interests of Wall Street speculators and oil companies instead of the
interests of working Americans by obstructing the agencies with the responsibility of enforcing consumer
protection laws. They have also repeatedly opposed our efforts to end billions of dollars in outdated taxpayer
subsidies for oil companies enjoying record profits.

We support efforts by the Obama Administration to expand domestic energy resources, including natural gas and
renewable sources like wind and solar that create jobs in America and will end our dangerous dependence on
foreign energy supplies. This can be achieved because today, the United States currently has more oil and gas rigs at
work than the rest of the world combined, and imports of foreign oil have decreased.

We call on the Republican leadership to act on behalf of American consumers and join our efforts to crack down on
speculators who care more about their profits than the price at the pump even if these spikes harm the American
consumer and our economy.”

I am of course not going to comment directly on this, for many reasons, including not wanting to spend my days at
California’s solar-powered detention facility in Chuckawalla Valley. However, for anyone interested in the specific
points raised in this press release, I have included some charts on the unfortunately binding constraints of science
and energy economics. Enjoy.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031148
