COWEN
COLLABORATIVE INSIGHTS February 25, 2019

Adidas and Nau. Nike offered a hemp-based SB Dunk Low sneaker in 2004, re-issuing
the shoe in 2016 around Earth Day. Patagonia, a $1B global brand that encompasses a
focus on the environment and social responsibility in its mission statement, views hemp
as a “natural fiber that’s cultivated with low impact on the environment.” The brand’s
assortment includes some hemp-based products made with 100% hemp, which it
imports from China, or blended with other fibers like recycled polyester, organic cotton,
and spandex.

2

Figure 116 Patagonia lron Forge Hemp Figure 117 prAna Sharla Sweater (55% Hemp} Figure 118 Men’s (Hemp upper)
Canvas Ranch Jacket (55% Hemp)

Source: www.patagonia.com Source: www.prana.com Source: www.sanku.com

There is also a growing market for apparel and footwear that provide recovery
attributes. For example, Under Armour has its Recovery line of apparel that includes
Celliant which is designed to “capture body heat and convert it to infrared light that is
returned to your body, boosting localized blood flow and upping the amount of oxygen
reaching your muscles.” Celliant is described as “utilizing a proprietary mineral matrix
that can be embedded into the core of a yarn or applied to a wide variety of fabrics.”
This demonstrates the ability to weave outside attributes into existing textiles to add
beneficial components beyond just providing an item of clothing. With CBD being
reported as having health and wellness properties, such as to combat inflammation,
there could be potential for CBD to be infused into textiles. Canada’s Fashion magazine
recently highlighted Devan Chemicals in its 1/4/19 article, “CBD Is Everywhere. Will
CBC-Infused Clothing Be Next?” Devan Chemicals is a Belgium-based company that has
“added CBD to their textile solutions portfolio.” The company’s “R Vital’ fabric reflects a
weave of microcapsules of CBD that release when a person wears the clothing as
demonstrated in their website’s flow chart below. While still early stage, perhaps there
will be demand for widescale CBD infused textiles, although, as the article points out, it
is unclear how the “potency” holds up over time and after washing.

COWEN.COM 71

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024887
