campaign w our allies? We should be standing with Syrian people in a more public
way.

General Hoss Cartwright . We need to inventory the tools we have and then define
our actions. Stop supplies to Assad; provide command and control assets (radios) to
rebels; provide intelligence; develop knowledge and planning for securing WMD.
We need to answer the above questions as part of defining our policy. Intel and
arms are happening. We also need armed observers to know what’s going on; need
safe harbors that have a protective flank in order to provide good logistics and
supply. Syria is far more difficult in this regard than was Libya. We need strategy
and structures to prevent mass atrocities. Will we put boots on the ground.

Steve Hadley (ex Bush): Need to assure ourselves and the Syrians that we are
aligning with the Syrian people. Forget the UN. This will send a critical message to
China and Russia that they don’t have a veto on US policy. Gain legitimacy by
aligning with Turkey and others. Send a strong and clear message to business and
military community in Syria that we are going to see this through and they should
ditch Assad now.

Bill Perry: I support near term intervention, but not boots on the ground. Support
enforcing no fly — no drive zones. Bring Turkey into operations. US must
participate with its unique capabilities (e.g. AWACs) and let others participate with
less unique assets (supplying arms etc.). There is no prospect of UN cooperation.
But a coalition of the willing (UK, Arab League) will give us the legitimancy we
need. Very good prospect of military success. Reasonable prospect of success on
humanitariean side. We should act, but in a fashion that has most of the action on
the backs of the rebles.

Madeleine A: Must intervene. How do we structure intervention. Didn’t use UN
in Kosovo and shouldn’t use it now.

Jim Steinberg (ex Obama). Must be certainty in everyone’s mind as to outcome
(ie.that Assad is out). Take nothing off the table.

Dennis Ross (ex Obama): Costs and consequences of intervention have been
discussed, but most of these consequences and costs will come to fruition whether
we go in or don’t go in, therefore we should go in and impact the outcome. Reach
out to KSA and Alawites. Don’t dither over analysis.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025804
