76 4 Brief Survey of Cognitive Architectures

4.4.1.1 Neural-Symbolic Integration

The distinction between neural and symbolic systems has gotten fuzzier and fuzzier in recent
years, with developments such as

e Logic-based systems being used to control embodied agents (hence using logical terms to
deal with data that is apparently perception or actuation-oriented in nature, rather than
being symbolic in the semiotic sense), see [SSO3a] and [GMIT08].

e Hybrid systems combining neural net and logical parts, or using logical or neural net com-
ponents interchangeably in the same role [L Aon].

e Neural net systems being used for strongly symbolic tasks such as automated grammar
learning ([Elm91], [Elm91], plus more recent work.)

Figure 4.7 presents a schematic diagram of a generic neural-symbolic system, generalizing
from [BI05], a paper that gives an elegant categorization of neural-symbolic AI systems. Figure
4.8 depicts several broad categories of neural-symbolic architecture.

: “
F “

Interaction Interaction
F Representation |
; Symbolic > Neural -
Learning (Localist) (Globalist) ) Learning
~ System ‘ System Zz

Fig. 4.7: Generic neural-symbolic architecture

Bader and Hitzler categorize neural-symbolic systems according to three orthogonal axes:
interrelation, language and usage. “Language” refers to the type of language used in the symbolic
component, which may be logical, automata-based, formal grammar-based, etc. “Usage” refers
to the purpose to which the neural-symbolic interrelation is put. We tend to use “learning” as
an encompassing term for all forms of ongoing knowledge-creation, whereas Bader and Hitzler
distinguish learning from reasoning.

Of Bader and Hitzler’s three axes the one that interests us most here is “interrelation”, which
refers to the way the neural and symbolic components of the architecture intersect with each
other. They distinguish “hybrid” architectures which contain separate but equal, interacting
neural and symbolic components; versus “integrative” architectures in which the symbolic com-
ponent essentially rides piggyback on the neural component, extracting information from it and
helping it carry out its learning, but playing a clearly derived and secondary role. We prefer
Sun’s (2001) term “monolithic” to Bader and Hitzler’s “integrative” to describe this type of
system, as the latter term seems best preserved in its broader meaning.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012992
