([TERSON

illegations that have no basis
wsuit was merely a desperate
‘o prevent being held account-
using minor females. Epstein's
prosecuting this lawsuit are
\avior is another clear demon-
bove the law and that because
¢ the system and pay for law-
n to the extent of having them
other members of the Florida
st Edwards and LM is nothing
fairy-tale with absolutely no
rt his preposterous claims. It
escape the public disclosure
the nature, extent, and sordid
al child molester. Edwards's
nt should be granted without

1 for malicious prosecution. “He
ip, falsified facts, Edwards says.

to extort me into abandoning
suing against him on behalf of
RA suit. He ultimately had to

n the morning our Summary
hen sued him. We were set for
tunitive damages in my claim.
n Florida, one of the appellate

Fittuy Ricu

courts basically abolished the tort of malicious prosecution
in Florida. My case was dismissed. I then appealed that. And
our district ruled that my malicious prosecution claim can
stand and the tort is not abolished in Florida. They sent it
back to the trial court and Jeffrey Epstein appealed that to
the State Supreme Court, and that’s where that stands.

Sarah Kellen

“She said her name was Clara something on the rental applica-
tion,” says a real estate agent in Palm Beach. “It wasn’t until
much later that I realized she was associated with Epstein.”

In April of 2009, that agent rented Clara a bungalow in Palm
Beach. For Clara, that little home was a step down from Jeffrey
Epstein’s big house on FE] Brillo Way and from the life she’d known
as Sarah Kellen. But not such a step down. “She signed a lease to
pay four thousand dollars a month from April 18 through July 18,
2009,” says a Palm Beach resident familiar with the local housing
market. “But she stayed a lot longer. And by the way, she went ona
round-the-world trip for at least a month while she had the lease.”

Kellen had been a prime suspect in Chief Reiter's investigation.
Prosecutors had considered charging her, Wendy Dobbs, and Nadia
Marcinkova as potential coconspirators. They'd avoided those
charges as part of the plea deal that Epstein had struck—a deal in
the course of which it was suggested that if Epstein had to have
pleaded to something, he could have pleaded to striking Kellen—or
slapping her, once, on his jet. Assault, they'd have called it.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022178
