somewhere between Daddy Warbucks and Eyes Wide Shut.

The domesticity of the house, and the background of Epstein’s problems,
centers around a group of young women who act as his support staff and
companions. Some have worked for him for many years, marrying, having
children, and continuing as part of his business and household infrastructure. One
woman, on an afternoon when I was there, recently married, had just returned from
an around the world honeymoon that Epstein had arranged for her. Some are his
romantic interests. His present girl friend is in dental school. One former girlfriend,
Eva Andersson Dubin, a Swedish model and Miss Universe finalist, became a
doctor and married hedge funder Glen Dubin and together they finance the Dubin
Breast Center at Mount Sinai Hospital. Most at one time will travel with him to his
other floating residences—the ranch in New Mexico, a vast apartment in Paris, the
Island in the Caribbean, the house in Palm Beach.

This is so outside of conventional living or staffing or romantic relationships
that it is hard to describe 1n a straightforward or straight-faced way. It sometimes
seems part of Epstein’s implicit challenge: not just look at me, but can you even
believe what you see? Or it seems he is just oblivious to what others are thinking.
A willful and perhaps fatal tone deafness.

But Hefnerian prurience can also be quite businesslike: poised young
women in a mansion on the Upper East Side with various office responsibilities are
really not that different from any of the art galleries in the surrounding
neighborhood.

Epstein’s young women mingle freely with his powerful guests, not so much
as hostess or, in tabloid language, harem-like (or as “sex slaves”), but often as
attentive students (that, of course, might be regarded as having its own fetish-like
attraction).

Not long ago, Epstein invited me to sit in on a day of presentations to him in
his dining room by various “quants.” Quant theory involves making investments
based solely on mathematical and statistical models. This method can often have
uncanny predictive powers. But the problem is it doesn’t scale very well—the
market, having discerned a pattern of successful investing, quickly copies and
discounts the advantages of the strategy, . Epstein’s effort was to identify, dissect
and choose a dozen or so promising algorithms (each quant is effectively
hawking his secret sauce algorithm) and invest up to $5 million with each. I knew
paltry little about this and so rather found myself identifying with the young
women to whom Epstein was explaining the basic math and mechanics—out of my
league, but grateful for the lesson.

The Epstein house/office is, by careful design, exclusive and club like, part
hang out, part secret society. Along with the difficulty in explaining why, even
after his jail term, the rich and powerful continued to beat a path to his door, it’s

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022848
