796

argue the Court’s adjudication of Plaintiffs’
claims would interfere with the executive
branch’s discretion to designate state
sponsors of terror. See 28 U.S.C.
§ 1605(a)(7)(A) (isting statutes that give
Secretary of State authority to designate
countries as sponsors of terrorism). Fi-
nally, Defendants submit the purpose
of(a)(5) was “to eliminate a foreign state’s
immunity for traffic accidents and other
torts committed in the United States, for
which liability is imposed under domestic
tort law.” Amerada Hess, 488 U.S. at
439-40, 109 S.Ct. 6838; Burnett IT, 292
F.Supp.2d at 19 (stating “the legislative
history [of the FSIA] counsels that the
exception should be narrowly construed so
as not to encompass the farthest reaches
of common law’).

Plaintiffs respond that if Congress in-
tended (a)(5) and (a)(7) to be mutually
exclusive or intended that (a)(5) never ap-
ply in the terrorism context, Congress
would have said so. Indeed, Congress did
so very explicitly with respect to (a)(5) and
(a)(2) and between (a)(7) and (a)(2). See
§ 1605(a)(5) (explaining exception can only
be used in situations “not otherwise en-
compassed in paragraph (2)”);
§ 1605(a)@) Game). To further buttress
their argument, Plaintiffs note the two ex-
ceptions have been interpreted to encom-
pass different situations. Subsection (a)(7)
covers acts of terrorism committed abroad
by a state sponsor of terrorism, while sub-
section (a)(5) governs tortious acts, includ-
ing terrorism, performed in the United
States. See Flatow v. Islamic Republic of
Tran, 999 F.Supp. 1, 15 (D.D.C.1998) (find-
ing (a)(7) applied to conduct outside the
United States and stating “28 U.S.C.
§ 1605(a)(5) already provides jurisdiction
over state-sponsored terrorist acts in the
United States, ... the state sponsored ter-
rorism exception would be redundant if it
were held to apply only within the United
States”). Again, Plaintiffs argue that De-

349 FEDERAL SUPPLEMENT, 2d SERIES

fendants’ argument of exclusivity would
lead to absurd results, such that if a for-
eign sovereign not designated a state spon-
sor of terror was involved in a car accident
stemming from negligence it would not be
immune; but if it undertook a deliberate
act of violence it would enjoy immunity
from suit.

The Court understands Plaintiffs’ desire
to find a legal remedy for the horrible
wrongs committed on September 11, 2001.
If appropriate, however, these Defendants
are entitled to immunity from litigating
these gravely serious claims in this forum.
Congress made a policy decision that the
Executive branch, and not the courts, have
the authority to label a foreign nation a
terrorist. See 28 U.S.C. § 1605(a)(7)(A).
But when it drafted the state sponsor of
terror exception it did not include mutually
exclusive language that would preclude the
application of the torts exception here. It
did include such language with respect to
the commercial activities exception. See
28 USC. § 1605(a)(7) “A foreign state
shall not be immune from jurisdiction of
courts of the United States or of the States
in any case—not otherwise covered by
paragraph (2) above.”); see also 28 U.S.C.
§ 1605(a)(5) “A foreign state shall not be
immune from jurisdiction of courts of the
United States or of the States in any
case—not otherwise encompassed in para-
graph (2) above.”). Particularly in a case
such as this where interests of sovereignty,
comity, international relations, and separa-
tion of powers are implicated, the Court
must be vigilant to exercise discipline to
apply the law only as it is written. While
there are certainly obstacles to (a)(5)’s ap-
plication—and the Court is not convinced
the Plaintiffs have or can overcome
them—the Court will not rule as a matter
of law that subsections (a)(7) and (a)(5) are
mutually exclusive. Accordingly, the
Court will consider Plaintiffs’ evidence

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017861
