From Selfish Genes to Social Brains

The Chicago Social Brain
Network was established to examine
how science might inform us about our
fundamental human nature, including the
apparently irrepressible quest for
connection with a higher understanding
and organization. Science can describe
what religion does in rigorous ways that
benefit religion, and religion can serve a
meaning-making function that science
itself disclaims. This is not to say that
science can address the existence of
God. Our Network instead focuses on
the consequences of believing in such a
mind and of seeing into that mind.

In the next chapter, John
Cacioppo, a social neuroscientist, draws
on work on evolutionary theory,
sociobiology, and evolutionary
psychology to examine the implications
of the selfish gene hypothesis for Homo
sapiens. He shows how the notion of the
selfish gene has been joined with
political theory, consumerism, and
economics to produce a dominant
modern image of humans summarized
by the phrase “what is best for me is best
for the society.” Without rejecting the
selfish gene view, Cacioppo shows how
it evolves in humans into what he calls
the “social brain’— a large cerebral
cortex and an interconnected limbic
lobule that together are sensitive to the
complexities of physical and social
environments. Central to this
complexity is the long period of
dependency of the human infant and the
interdependencies of adult humans for
survival especially in hostile
environments (e.g., warfare). For the
selfish gene to contribute its DNA to the
ongoing gene pool, the individual must
not only reproduce but also cooperate
with others to assure that his or her

Page |17

offspring also grow to maturity and
reproduce. This leads to natural
selection choosing those genes and
capacities that contribute to cooperation,
reciprocity, attachments, and generosity.
Over the millennia of human evolution,
this process has created the social brain
and made humans a unique social
animal.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021263
