Global Asset Allocation
The J.P. Morgan View
28 March 2013

Jan Loeys
(1-212) 834-5874
jan.loeys@jpmorgan.com

Local issues must be monitored and understood, though, to decide how to
allocate capital and risk. Just to review a few, Japanese policy makers
continue to present a concerted plan to reflate their economy through
monetary, fiscal and structural measures. The strong control of the
government and its high approval rating are steadily raising the chance of
success. We stay overweight Japanese equities and grow wary of the short yen
trade, as capital inflows and rising growth expectations (chart of right) are
ultimately bullish for the currency. Watch next week’s BoJ meeting, led by
newly appointed Governor Kuroda, for new reflationary measures.

The Euro area economy remains in recession, while policy makers are
making little effort to reverse the contraction. We monitor signs of any large
deposit flight post Cyprus over coming weeks and months to judge whether
the bailout may actually be worsening conditions in the Euro. Economic
forecast momentum remains negative (chart of right). These are good reasons
to underweight the Euro area, if not all of Europe, across asset classes, against
the rest of the world.

The US, in contrast, is seeing better spending from both corporates and
consumers than we could have expected post Fiscal Cliff and sequestration.
But given the huge amount of fiscal drag, which is a fact, we want to see
another 1-2 months of data before extrapolating the good news. It did support
US equities in recent weeks, which continue to benefit from US corporates
issuing debt to buy their own shares and others', through M&A. This corporate
rotation from debt to equities is almost exclusively a US flow, which helps
explain US equity outperformance.

Across risk assets, we are similarly seeing huge delinking, with equities
rallying greatly and commodities and credit seeing no gains (chart p. 1), very
much unlike last year. Commodities are delinking as there are no growth
upgrades in EM, and inflation concerns are concentrated on two countries, UK
and Japan. Credit is delinking as most investors are massively overweight
credit versus equities, as evidenced by the disparity in buying flows in 2011-
12. Relevering by US corporate and the Fed debating the end of QE are
signaling that the 3-decade long rally in bonds is likely over. Investors are
starting to dollar-average away from bonds to equities.

Fixed Income

Bonds rallied again, except for Euro area peripherals, the source of this
week’s market concerns. The imposition of capital controls on Cypriot
deposits is to be sure a watershed moment, but for now not one we expect to
spark significant deposit withdrawals elsewhere. Meanwhile, the most likely
outcome to the Italian impasse appears to be new elections in the autumn.
With seemingly little prospect of a material rise in yields on the safest assets,
we think the search for carry evident across the full gamut of asset markets
will see peripheral spreads narrow over time.

Ten-year JGB yields have rallied to within a few bps of their all-time low,
ahead of next week’s inaugural meeting for the new BoJ leadership. We do
indeed expect aggressive easing, with JGB purchases out to 30 years, but
think this will be trumped by profit taking in JGBs after the fiscal year end.

Our latest Inflation Expectations Survey (F. Diamond, K. Gupta) was out
yesterday. One interesting result is that almost 90% of respondents believe the
BoJ has less than a 50/50 shot of hitting its 2% inflation target in two years, a
reflection of the formidable challenge of sparking inflation expectations after
two decades of falling prices.

J.P Morgan

2013 Japan GDP growth forecasts: JPMorgan and

Consensus
2.0
1.8
1.6
1.4
1.2
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.0

Jan-12 9 Apr-12— Jul-12) = Oct-12. Jan-13

Source: J.P. Morgan, Consensus Economics. Consensus Economics
forecasts are for regions and countries that we averaged using the
same 5-year rolling USD GDP weights that we use for our own global
growth forecast.

Consensus

JPM

2013 Euro area GDP growth forecasts: JPMorgan
and Consensus

1.0

Consensus
0.5

0.0

Jar-12 Jul-12 Oct-12

Apr-12

-0.5

-1.0

Source: J.P. Morgan, Consensus Economics. Consensus Economics
forecasts are for regions and countries that we averaged using the
same 5-year rolling USD GDP weights that we use for our own global
growth forecast.

More details in ...

Global Data Watch, Bruce Kasman and David Hensley
Global Markets Outlook and Strategy, Jan Loeys et al.
US Fixed Income Markets, Pavan Wadhwa, Matthew
Jozoff, and Srini Ramaswamy

Global Fixed Income Markets, Fabio Bassi

Emerging Markets Outlook and Strategy, Joyce Chang
Key trades and risk: Emerging Market Equity Strategy,
Adrian Mowat et al.

Flows and Liquidity, Nikos Panigirtzoglou et al.
Description of YTD Chart on p. 1: Returns in USD. “Local
currency. ““Hedged into USD. Euro Fixed Income is
iBoxx Overall Index. US HG, HY, EMBIG and EM $ Corp
are JPM indices. EM FX is ELMI-+ in $.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030849
