For example, a pharmaceutical company used chari-
table donations to a small local castle restoration charity
headed by a foreign government official to induce the offi-
cial to direct business to the company. Although the charity
was a bona fide charitable organization, internal documents

at the pharmaceutical company’s subsidiary established that

the payments were not viewed as charitable contributions
but rather as “dues” the subsidiary was required to pay for
assistance from the government official. The payments con-
stituted a significant portion of the subsidiary’s total pro-
motional donations budget and were structured to allow

the subsidiary to exceed its authorized limits. The payments

Hypothetical: Gifts, Travel, and Entertainment

Company A is a large U.S. engineering company with global operations in more than 50 countries, including a
number that have a high risk of corruption, such as Foreign Country. Company A's stock is listed on a national U.S. stock
exchange. In conducting its business internationally, Company A's officers and employees come into regular contact with
foreign officials, including officials in various ministries and state-owned entities. At a trade show, Company A has a booth
at which it offers free pens, hats, t-shirts, and other similar promotional items with Company A's logo. Company A also
serves free coffee, other beverages, and snacks at the booth. Some of the visitors to the booth are foreign officials.

ls Company A in violation of the FCPA?

No. These are legitimate, bona fide expenditures made in connection with the promotion, demonstration, or
explanation of Company A's products or services. There is nothing to suggest corrupt intent here. The FCPA does not
prevent companies from promoting their businesses in this way or providing legitimate hospitality, including to foreign
officials. Providing promotional items with company logos or free snacks as set forth above is an appropriate means of
providing hospitality and promoting business. Such conduct has never formed the basis for an FCPA enforcement action.

At the trade show, Company A invites a dozen current and prospective customers out for drinks, and pays
the moderate bar tab. Some of the current and prospective customers are foreign officials under the FCPA. Is
Company A in violation of the FCPA?

No. Again, the FCPA was not designed to prohibit all forms of hospitality to foreign officials. While the cost here may
be more substantial than the beverages, snacks, and promotional items provided at the booth, and the invitees specifically
selected, there is still nothing to suggest corrupt intent.

Two years ago, Company A won a long-term contract to supply goods and services to the state-owned Electricity
Commission in Foreign Country. The Electricity Commission is 100% owned, controlled, and operated by the
government of Foreign Country, and employees of the Electricity Commission are subject to Foreign Country's
domestic bribery laws. Some Company A executives are in Foreign Country for meetings with officials of the
Electricity Commission. The General Manager of the Electricity Commission was recently married, and during the
trip Company A executives present a moderately priced crystal vase to the General Manager as a wedding gift
and token of esteem. Ils Company A in violation of the FCPA?

No. It is appropriate to provide reasonable gifts to foreign officials as tokens of esteem or gratitude. It is important that
such gifts be made openly and transparently, properly recorded in a company’s books and records, and given only where

appropriate under local law, customary where given, and reasonable for the occasion.

During the course of the contract described above, Company A periodically provides training to Electricity
Commission employees at its facilities in Michigan. The training is paid for by the Electricity Commission as part of
the contract. Senior officials of the Electricity Commission inform Company A that they want to inspect the facilities
and ensure that the training is working well. Company A pays for the airfare, hotel, and transportation for the

(cont'd)

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022519
