with obstruction of justice and sentenced to federal prison. He dies in 2015. The
contents of the black book become public as part of several civil lawsuits.

2010

April: Flight logs obtained as part of civil lawsuits against Epstein show an
assortment of politicians, academics, celebrities, heads of state and world leaders
flying on Epstein’s jets in the early 2000s. Among them: former President Bill
Clinton, former national security adviser Sandy Berger, former Colombian President
Andrés Pastrana and lawyer Alan Dershowitz.

2011

March: Two of Epstein’s victims file a motion in federal court accusing the
government of violating their rights by failing to notify them about the plea deal and
keeping it secret. Among other things, they want the plea deal invalidated in the
hopes of sending Epstein to prison. They accuse federal prosecutors of deceiving
them with “false notification letters.”

September: U.S. District Judge Kenneth Marra rejects the U.S. Attorney’s Office
argument that it was under no obligation to notify victims prior to striking a non-
prosecution agreement with Epstein because there were no federal charges filed
against him. The decision marks a victory for Epstein’s victims, but the case will
drag on for seven more years.

November: Epstein must register in New York as the highest and most dangerous
level of sex offender, despite efforts by him and the New York District Attorney’s
office to lower the classification. A Level 3 status means “high risk of repeat offense
and a threat to public safety exists,” according to the state’s guidelines.

2012

March-December: Calling himself a “celebrated philanthropist” and a “renowned
educational investor,” Epstein undertakes a public relations campaign to counter
bad press about his sexual exploits. His foundation donates millions to scientific
research and sponsors global conferences on ways to achieve world peace and save
the planet. He funds cancer and educational research projects around the country.

2015

Virginia Roberts was working at Mar-a-Lago when she was recruited to be a
masseuse to Palm Beach hedge fund manager Jeffrey Epstein. She was lured into a
life of depravity and sexual abuse.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023011
