published today in Nature Physics, is that spatial networks are necessarily dependent on any number of critical nodes
whose failure can lead to abrupt — and unpredictable — collapse1.

The electric grid, which operates as a series of networks that are defined by geography, is a prime example, says Havlin.
“Whenever you have such dependencies in the system, failure in one place leads to failure in another place, which
cascades into collapse.”

The warning comes ten years after a blackout that crippled parts of the midwest and northeastern United States and parts of
Canada. In that case, a series of errors resulted in the loss of three transmission lines in Ohio over the course of about an
hour. Once the third line went down, the outage cascaded towards the coast, cutting power to some 50 million people.
Havlin says that this outage is an example of the inherent instability his study describes, but others question whether the
team’s conclusions can really be extrapolated to the real world.

“| suppose | should be open-minded to new research, but I'm not convinced,” says Jeff Dagle, an electrical engineer at the
Pacific Northwest National Laboratory in Richland, Washington, who served on the government task force that investigated
the 2003 outage. “The problem is that this doesn’t reflect the physics of how the power grid operates.”

Critical order

Havlin and his colleagues focused on idealized scenarios. They found that randomly structured networks — such as social
networks — degrade slowly as nodes are removed, which in the real world might mean there is time to diagnose and
address a problem before a system collapses. By contrast, the connections of orderly lattice structures have more critical
nodes, which increase the instability. The problem is that such orderly networks are always operating near an indefinable
edge, Havlin says. To reduce that risk, he recommends adding a small number of longer transmission lines that provide
short cuts to different parts of the grid.

Benjamin Carreras, a physicist at Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee who has conducted similar work2, says that
network theory can be useful for providing insight into electric grids but must be complemented with more complex models
that attempt to represent both the physical realities and the responsiveness of the modern electric grid. Although in some
cases adding long lines can benefit the overall stability of an electric system, Carreras’ work suggests that in certain
circumstances such an approach allows problems to propagate even farther.

“More connections may stabilize some processes, by, for instance, increasing the number of paths to generators, but also
may destabilize others,” Carreras says. “One cannot make generic statements on this topic.”

Although local outages caused by falling trees knocking down distribution lines are common, large-scale failures within the
core ne transmission lines rarely occur ona modern electric grid. Before 2003, the last major blackout in the United States
had been on the west coast in 1996, and more recently an outage has struck in the San Diego area.

Dagle says that the 2003 blackout stemmed from a combination of bad vegetation management — the first three lines
tripped after sagging into trees but were all within their load rating — and a series of monitoring and communications
breakdowns. Vegetation requirements have since been standardized, and a new generation of sensors is providing grid
operators with more information about what is happening across the grid at any given moment.

“Many more utilities have much more data,” Dagle says. “The next phase of our voyage is to make better use of that data.”
Back to top
Technology — Full text articles

Ballmer Departure From Microsoft Was More Sudden Than Portrayed by the Company
Kara Swisher — All Things D

According to sources close to the situation, the departure of CEO Steve Ballmer from Microsoft last week was more sudden
than was depicted by the company in its announcement that he would be retiring within the next year in a planned smooth
transition.

It was neither planned nor as smooth as portrayed.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019419
