{mobile apps, premium nanny, date night payment services etc.) may not see much
traction, 4) lower conversion rates on mobile, 5) mobile conversions with 30% fee to
Apple and Google Play marketplaces could negatively impact margins, and 6)
international expansion may not be successful given different demographics.

Upside risks to our PO are 1} lower marketing spend resulting in higher margins and
better leverage in 2016, 2) revenue upside from cross-selling and word of mouth, 3}
increase length of stay for paid subscribers, reducing churn, and 4) traction from new
care offerings, Care at Work, and international expansion.

eBay (EBAY)

Our $38 price objective is based on 17x our 2018E EPS. Our 17x P/E multiple is slightly
ahead of the retail comp group average of about 16x, reflecting eBay's potential for a
Marketplace growth acceleration in 2017.

Risks to our price objective are: 1) competition from Amazon and other new
Marketplaces in the U.S., competition from Amazon, Alibaba and local incumbents in
International markets, and competition from multi-channel retailers that are
aggressively investing in the online channel, 2) vulnerability to future Google algorithm
changes, 3) decelerating user growth, resulting in eCommerce market share losses, and
4) currency risk including FX volatility impact on cross border trade. The stock has been
subject to heavy volatility in the past based on GMV growth and market share trends
and this volatility could increase due to economic uncertainty.

Expedia (EXPE)

Our $146 price objective is based on our sum of the parts (SOP) that assumes 9x 2018E
EBITDA for the core OTA business (a discount to Priceline at approx. 15x due to slower
organic growth and higher taxes on earnings), 8x 2018E EBITDA for Egencia (we expect
single digit growth), 60% ownership of Trivago (using our PO), and HomeAway at 15x
2018 EV/EBITDA.

Downside risks to our PO are: 1) economic downturn leading to fewer travel bookings, 2)
competition for European traffic lowering the company's growth or margin opportunity,
3) hotels favoring lower-cost alternative distribution channels and limiting Expedia's
access to inventory, 4) Google and/or TripAdvisor disintermediation, and 5) the negative
impact of terrorism and disease on global travel trends.

Facebook (FB)

Our $165 price objective is based on 24x our non-GAAP 2018E EPS and 27x GAAP EPS,
multiples equal to about 1x 2018E revenue growth, mostly in-line with its social and
online media peers.

Risks are: 1) high valuation that discounts strong growth, 2) changes in user
engagement impacts optimism on revenue opportunities and compresses the stock
multiple, 3) privacy issues or pushback on Facebook's policy changes impact revenue
generation, 4) risks to executing Messenger & WhatsApp monetization, 5) potential for
higher investment to negatively impact margins, and 6) a macroeconomic impact on
advertising pricing.

Fitbit (FIT)

Our $6.50 price objective is based on 0.5x EV/S multiple which is below the device
manufacturer peer group at 1.8x, but justified in our view given declining revenue and
profitability, FCF burn, market saturation, and limited visibility into the next product cycle.

Upside risks are: 1) international product launches and expansion, 2) higher-than-
expected ASPs, 3) new product launches domestically, 4) slower-than-expected OpEx
ramp, 5) software monetization and 6) corporate wellness program growth.

54 Internet/e-Commerce | 06 April 2017 Bankof America <2
Merrill Lynch

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014940
