We do not believe this tightening cycle will lead to a US recession in 2017.

could derail the last innings of this recovery and
bull market. The first three are low-probability
risks in our view, the next three risks have a

high probability of occurring but their impact is
uncertain and the last two are high-probability and
high-impact risks beginning as early as 2017.

Low-Probability but High-Impact Risks:

¢ The pace of Federal Reserve tightening
is disruptive and financial markets
react negatively.
The economy slips into recession.
Populist parties in the Eurozone
gain greater influence.

High-Probability but Uncertain-Impact Risks:
¢ Geopolitical hot spots get hotter.
¢ Terrorism escalates.
¢ Cyberattacks continue.

High-Probability and High-Impact Risks:
¢ China submerges under its debt burden and
capital outflows.
* US-China relations deteriorate under the Trump
administration.

Pace of Federal Reserve Tightening

Unlike the December 2015 interest rate hike that
prompted a vocal response from naysayers but had
limited impact on the bond market, the December
2016 hike has elicited a muted response from
market commentators but has had a larger impact
on the bond market. The underlying strength of the
labor market and the steady improvement in the
economy have led to a change of sentiment toward
more interest rate hikes, which are clearly in the

offing. Interest rates have increased from
a low of 1.3% for the 10-year Treasury
in July 2016 to 2.4% by year-end. While
this increase in interest rates would
ordinarily tighten financial conditions,

it has been partially offset by stronger
equity markets and tighter corporate
bond spreads. In fact, financial conditions
were looser at the end of the year than
they were at the beginning of 2016
despite expectations of a slow but steady
increase in the federal funds rate.

We share the market view that the
pace of monetary policy tightening will
accelerate but remain benign. As shown
in Exhibit 23, the difference between
the Federal Reserve dots, the view implied by the
bond market, the forecast by our colleagues in
GIR and our view is negligible. The bond market
has priced two hikes, the Federal Reserve and GIR
expect three hikes, and we think two or three hikes
are equally likely in 2017. We assume that the
Federal Reserve will slow down the pace of interest

There is no shortage of concerns as markets climb a wall of worry.

26 | Goldman Sachs | JANUARY 2017

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014559
