Asian equities (ex-Japan)

MSCI Asia ex-Japan (27 June): 469 (last month: 466)
UBS View MSCI Asia ex-Japan (6-month target): 515
¢ The region continued to show high volatility last month, with its P/BV temporarily close to 2008 lows.
¢ Hong Kong and Singapore markets’ domestic fundamentals remain solid. Hong Kong should benefit
from China's gradual recovery in 2H 2012, while Singapore's economy is rebounding and corporate
balance sheets and earnings remain solid. After the rate cut early June, we expect China to have more
policies to support growth in 2H 2012. China is our most preferred market, while Indonesia is least
preferred in the region. We are more concerned about Indonesia's fiscal deficit, since the fuel price hike
did not happen. Domestic problems for Indonesia include current account deficits, potential capital
outflows, bottomed-out inflation and hiccups in economic and market reforms, in our view.
¢ We expect 10% earnings-per-share growth over 12 months for the MSCI Asia ex-Japan, which trades on
11.6x 12-month trailing earnings. We expect this multiple to expand slightly in the next six months, as the
current earnings downgrade cycle is approaching its end. Nevertheless, MSCI Asia ex-Japan is likely to see
further volatility in the near term due to global macro risk factors.

@ Positive scenario MSCI Asia ex-Japan (6-month target): 610

¢ More supportive monetary and fiscal policy, stable inflation, sustained domestic demand growth, and an
improved global growth outlook should lead to a better earnings outlook. We would expect earnings
growth of 15% and a P/E based on realized earnings of 14x.

4 Negative scenario MSCI APAC ex-Japan (6-month target): 380
e Ahard landing in China with a global recession leads to negative earnings revisions for 2012. In this

scenario, earnings could fall 20% over 12 months and the P/E could fall to about 10.5x.
Note: Scenarios refer to global economic scenarios (see slide 7)

What we're watching Why it matters

Growth Both HK and Singapore's GDP growth disappointed, raising concerns about the
growth momentum in the region. Investors should focus on whether growth
will re-accelerate in the near term. Key dates: 3 July, HK retail sales; 13

July, SG retail sales; 17 July, SG exports

Policy responses Some other countries in the region have structural issues due to fuel subsidies
(e.g. Indonesia) and fiscal deficits (e.g. India). Policy responses often come on an

ad hoc base.

36 UBS

For further information please contact CIO asset class specialist Patrick Ho, patrick-ww.ho@ubs.com

Preference: overweight

Recommendations

Tactical (6 months)

e We prefer Hong Kong banks, Singapore
high-dividend stocks and Chinese
insurance and consumer plays.

e We are concerned about India's inflation
pressure, but we see opportunities in the
power and banking sectors.

Strategic (1 to 2 years)

e Rising consumption is the long-term trend
in Asia ex-Japan that we expect will
continue to play out.

e In China, sectors that contribute to
improved labor productivity or deliver
goods and services for the elderly should
benefit from demographic changes
(ageing population and decelerating
population growth).

Asia ex-Japan country preferences
Current most Current least
preferred markets preferred markets
China Indonesia

We currently have a neutral view on the
remaining emerging equity markets in the
MSCI Asia ex-Japan index.

20

Please see important disclaimer and disclosures at the end of the document.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024155
