The charges included “IV therapy,” billed at $787 for the adult and $393 for the child, which suggests that the difference in
the amount of saline infused, typically less than a liter, could alone account for several hundred dollars.

Tricia O’Malley, a spokeswoman for the hospital, would not disclose the price it pays per IV bag or break down the therapy
charge, which she called the hospital’s “private pay rate,” or the sticker price charged to people without insurance. She said

she could not explain why patients covered by Medicaid were billed at all.

Eventually the head of the family, an electrician’s helper who speaks little English, complained to HealthFirst, the Medicaid
H.M.O. It paid $119 to settle the grandmother’s $2, 168 bill, without specifying how much of the payment was for the IV. It
paid $66.50 to the doctor, who had billed $606.

At White Plains Hospital, a patient with private insurance from Aetna was charged $91 for one unit of Hospira IV that cost the
hospital 86 cents, according to a hospital sookeswoman, Eliza O'Neill.

Ms. O’Neill defended the markup as “consistent with industry standards.” She said it reflected “not only the cost of the
solution but a variety of related services and processes,” like procurement, biomedical handling and storage, apparently not
included in a charge of $127 for administering the IV and $893 for emergency-room services.

The patient, a financial services professional in her 50s, ended up paying $100 for her visit. “Honestly, | don’t understand the
system at all,” said the woman, who shared the information on the condition that she not be named.

Dr. Frost, the anesthesiologist, spent three days in the same hospital and owed only $8, thanks to insurance coverage by
United HealthCare. Still, she was baffled by the charges: $6,844, including $546 for six liters of saline that cost the hospital
$5.16.

“It’s just absolutely absurd.” she said. “That’s saltwater.”

Last fall, | appealed to the New York State Department of Health for help in mapping the charges for rehydrating patients in
the food poisoning episode. Deploying software normally used to detect Medicaid fraud, a team compiled a chart of what

Medicaid and Medicare were billed in six of the cases.

But the department has yet to release the chart. It is under indefinite review, Bill Schwarz, a department spokesman, said,
“to ensure confidential information is not compromised.”

Back to top

States scramble to get health-care law’s insurance marketplaces up and running
Sarah Kliff and Sandhya Somashekhar - Washington Post

With a key deadline approaching, state officials across the country are scrambling to get the Affordable Care Act’s complex
computer systems up and running, reviewing contingency plans and, in some places, preparing for delays.

Oct. 1 is the scheduled launch date for the health-care law’s insurance marketplaces — online sites where uninsured people
will be able to shop for coverage, sometimes using a government subsidy to purchase a plan. An estimated 7 million people
are expected to use these portals to purchase health coverage in 2014.

The task is unprecedented in its complexity, requiring state and federal data systems to transmit reams of information
between one another. Some officials in charge of setting up the systems say that the tight deadlines have forced them to
take shortcuts when it comes to testing and that some of the bells and whistles will not be ready.

“There’s a certain level of panic about how much needs to be accomplished but a general sense that the bare minimum to
get the system functional will be done,” said Matt Salo, executive director of the National Association of Medicaid Directors.

“It will by no means be as smooth and as seamless as people expected.”

Oregon announced this month that it will delay consumers’ direct access to its marketplace, opening the Web site only to
brokers and consumer-assistance agents in order to shield consumers from opening-day glitches.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019425
