JaMEs PATTERSON

* * *

10:18 a.m.

Q:

Which of my clients are you swearing under oath encour-
aged Virginia Roberts to include allegations of an encounter

with you at the New Mexico ranch?

: Both of them—both of your clients, both Judge Cassell

and Mr. Edwards—were both involved in encouraging
[their] client to file a perjurious affidavit that they knew or
should have known was perjurious recently when they
sought to file another defamatory allegation in the federal

proceeding.

: Was the arrangement such that what you are charging Brad-

ley Edwards and Professor Paul Cassell with doing was sub-

orning perjury?

: Absolutely. If you ask me the question, I am directly charging

Judge Cassell and Bradley Edwards with suborning perjury. |
have been advised that Virginia Roberts did not want to
mention me, told her friends that she did not want to men-
tion me. And was, quote, pressured by her lawyers into
including these totally false allegations against me. Yes, your

clients are guilty of suborning perjury.

: Who told you that Bradley Edwards pressured Virginia Rob- — :

erts into falsely identifying you?

A friend of Virginia Roberts who called me out of the blue ~
and told me that she was horrified by what was happening to 7
me and that she recently had meetings with Virginia Roberts ©
and Virginia Roberts had told her that she never mentioned §

me previously. That the lawyers pressured her into mention

254

ing me. And mentioni
me, yes.

10:20 a.m.

Q: What was the name of
A: Her name is—her first
Q: ‘Yes.
A: I don't know the last na
Q: Did you attempt to find
A: Ihave her last name wr
Q: Where?
A: It’s in my—in my notes
Q: When did you write Ret
A: When she—when she f
since you've asked me tk
At first her husband ;
would not give me their n
had a series of phone cc
please, to tell me their na
they told me the story in g
her name. She asked me
her identity without her E
her. Called her as recently
I want to recall—I dc
I called her twice last ni
reveal her complete name
and I will be happy to giv:
top of my head.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022151
