released from the US straitjacket and is free to resume its position as a
regional power.

There are plenty of reasons, however, to dismiss the visit as just show. Mr
Ahmadinejad is a lame duck, banned by the constitution from running for
a third term in the June elections. As Iran moves into a period of war
economy under the pressure of sanctions designed to curb its nuclear
programme, Mr Ahmadinejad is engaged in a furious struggle to ensure
that his rival, the parliamentary speaker, Ali Larijani, does not succeed
him. The corruption allegations levelled by Mr Ahmadinejad against the
Larijani family are deeply damaging to the Iranian regime.

Mr Morsi, meanwhile, has little to show Egyptians that he has improved
their lot. Cairo is the scene of near-constant street battles and the economy
is tanking. Egypt's currency reserves have just sunk to $13.6 billion (Dh50
billion), below the critical level needed to cover three months of imports.
The country is staring bankruptcy in the face, but cannot access
emergency funds from the International Monetary Fund without
implementing unpopular reforms that would further raise social tensions.

Both leaders need to show that they have friends abroad. The reality is a
little different. Egypt and Iran appear to be divided by the Syria conflict,
which is symptomatic of the wider split between the Sunni Muslim
powers, led by Saudi Arabia, and Iran's faltering axis of resistance that,
with Syria in play and Hamas having defected, now looks increasingly like
a Shia Muslim axis.

If we look more closely, then the story of Egypt resuming its role as a
regional power looks premature. At this stage, Egypt is trying to find some
space to manoeuvre between Saudi Arabia and Iran. Given that Saudi
Arabia has the money that Egypt needs, and Washington has a lock on the
actions of the IMF, that space is limited.

But what does Washington think? Not very much at the moment. With
President Barack Obama's second term team still being assembled, it is not
surprising that there is something of a vacuum in Middle East policy. But
the issue 1s deeper than that. The Obama administration has declared it

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_027109
