the air that a terrorist breathed.” This was the precise line Schwartz would hand out to
reporters in the coming days in a further effort to establish Bannon’s right-wing virtue.

Alexandra Preate, Bannon’s lieutenant, arrived at Joe’s out of breath. Seconds later,
Jason Miller, another PR man in the Bannon fold, arrived. During the transition, Miller
had been slated to be the communications director, but then it had come out that Miller
had had a relationship with another staff member who announced in a tweet she was
pregnant by Miller—as was also, at this point, Miller’s wife. Miller, who had lost his
promised White House job but continued serving as an outside Trump and Bannon voice,
was now, with the recent birth of the child—with the recent birth of both of his children by
different women—facing another wave of difficult press. Still, even he was obsessively
focused on what Bannon’s interview might mean.

By now the table was buzzing with speculation.
How would the president react?

How would Kelly react?

Was this curtains?

For a group of people in touch with Bannon on an almost moment-by-moment basis, it
was remarkable that nobody seemed to understand that, forcibly or otherwise, he would
surely be moving out of the White House. On the contrary, the damaging interview was,
by consensus, converted into a brilliant strategic move. Bannon was not going anywhere
—not least because there was no Trump without Bannon.

It was an excited dinner, a revved-up occasion involving a passionate group of people
all attached to the man who they believed was the most compelling figure in Washington.
They saw him as some sort of irreducible element: Bannon was Bannon was Bannon.

As the evening went on, Matt Boyle got in a furious text-message fight with Jonathan
Swan, a White House reporter who had written a story about Bannon being on the losing
side in the Bannon-McMaster showdown. Soon almost every well-connected reporter in
the city was checking in with somebody at the table. When a text came in, the recipient
would hold up his or her phone if it showed a notable reporter’s name. At one point,
Bannon texted Schwartz some talking points. Could it be that this was just one more day
in the endless Trump drama?

Schwartz, who seemed to regard Trump’s stupidity as a political given, offered a
vigorous analysis of why Trump could not do without Bannon. Then, seeking more proof
of his theory, Schwartz said he was texting Sam Nunberg, generally regarded as the man
who understood Trump’s whims and impulses best, and who had sagely predicted
Bannon’s survival at each doubtful moment in the past months.

“Nunberg always knows,” said Schwartz.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020110
