Sherwood notices that the shirts are often hard to find on the competitive sites, all of which feature
dozens of products, and the shirts are either made in the U.S. (inauthentic) or shipped from France
(customers must wait two to four weeks). Johanna cannot find a “yoga for rock climbing” DVD, so she
is starting from a blank slate.

2. Sherwood and Johanna now need to create a one-page (300-600 words) testimonial-rich
advertisement that emphasizes their differentiators and product benefits using text and either personal
photos or stock photos from stock photo websites. Both have spent two weeks collecting advertisements
that have prompted them to make purchases or that have caught their attention in print or online —these

will serve as models. Johanna asks her clients for testimonials and Sherwood lets his friends try on the
shirts to get several for his page. Sherwood also asks the manufacturer for photos and advertising
samples.

See www.pxmethod.com for a good example of how I have created a test page using testimonials
from seminar attendees. Please note that it’s just a template for readers and not a live sales page. Free
how-to seminars as recommended in the Expert Builder are ideal for identifying popular selling points
and securing testimonials.

Testing the Advertisement

Sherwood and Johanna now need to test actual customer response to their advertisements. Sherwood first
tests his concept with a 72-hour eBay auction that includes his advertising text. He sets the “reserve” (the
lowest price he’ll accept) for one shirt at $50 and cancels the auction last minute to avoid legal issues
since he doesn’t have product to ship. He has received bids up to $75 and decides to move to the next
phase of testing. Johanna doesn’t feel comfortable with the apparent deception and skips this preliminary
testing.

Sherwood’s cost: <$5.

Both register domain names for their soon-to-be one-page sites using the cheap domain registrar
www.domainsinseconds.com. Sherwood chooses www.shirtsfromfrance.com and Johanna chooses
www.yogaclimber.com. For additional domain names, Johanna uses www.domainsinseconds.com.

Cost to both: <$20.

Sherwood uses www.weebly.com to create his one-page site advertisement and then creates two
additional pages using the form builder www.wufoo.com. If someone clicks on the “purchase” button at

the bottom of the first page, it takes them to a second page with pricing, shipping and handling “* and
basic contact fields to fill out (including e-mail and phone). If the visitor presses “continue with order,” it
takes them to a page that states, “Unfortunately, we are currently on back order but will contact you as
soon as we have product in stock. Thank you for your patience.” This structure allows him to test the
first-page ad and his pricing separately. If someone gets to the last page, it is considered an order.

Johanna is not comfortable with “dry testing,” as Sherwood’s approach is known, even though it is
legal if the billing data isn’t captured. She instead uses the same two services to create a single webpage
with the content of her one-page ad and an e-mail sign-up for a free “top 10 tips” list for using yoga for
rock climbing. She will consider 60% of the sign-ups as hypothetical orders.

Cost to both: <$0.

Both set up simple Google Adwords campaigns with 50-100 search terms to simultaneously test
headlines while driving traffic to their pages. Their daily budget limits are set at $50 per day. (At this
segue into PPC testing, I recommend you first visit www.adwords/google.com/onlinebusiness and then
follow along by creating your own account, which should take about 10 minutes. It would be a waste of
rain forests to use ten pages to explain terms that can be understood at a glance online.)

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013910
