Global Utility White Paper CONFIDENTIAL

of the earnings impact for the relevant companies, and assess what might be priced in by thoroughly
reviewing the Street’s numbers and commentary. It should also be noted that the same structural event
often affects not one but several companies, and the implementation of these structural changes are
typically not one-day events. As such, depending on the situation, we may have the opportunity to
capitalize on the same structural change event several times as it develops.

Our research process is our primary idea generator. We travel extensively and, collectively, the 5
investment professionals will have between 600 and close to 1,000 meetings a year as we speak with
companies, regulators, consultants, sell-side analysts and governments.

o = ©Why We Take a Global Approach - The “Greatest Gift”

Electron takes a global approach (historically, 40-60% of gross allocated outside the US) to the
utility sector: i) to spot structural change and resultant inefficiencies early, ii) to provide a wider
canvas to allocate capital around the globe to the most attractive (from a risk/reward point of view)
alpha opportunities and, most importantly, iii) to enable the Electron Global Funds to take advantage
of the global sector’s very low inter-regional correlation (i.e., correlation of regions within the global
sector; lowest of all MSCI global sectors — see below).

Global Sector Inter-regional Correlations

0.80
One of the least

0.70 + correlated sectors
0.60 -
0.50 - j
0.30 +
0.20 5
0.10 -
Ee

Ise

Materials
Industrials
Energy
Financials
Cons D
Cons staples
Telecom
Health Care
Utilities

Source: MSCI, 7 years’ weekly trailing correlation

We call this very low regional correlation the global utility sector’s greatest gift to long/short
investors as it provides a greater return per unit of risk if one has the ability to dynamically allocate
capital to and generate alpha in all regions. There are few long/short global utility funds today given
the global utility experience required to capture the greatest gift, as different countries have different
utility market designs and structures.

The Electron process starts with a focus on structural change and we embrace the myriad of utility
markets’ differences around the globe because this approach leads to the most attractive alpha
opportunities and the benefits of the “greatest gift”. We allocate capital dynamically to the most
attractive alpha opportunities in the global utility industry. As a result, the Electron Global Funds is
only one fund, yet the “greatest gift” provides the diversification benefit of 4 relatively uncorrelated
regions and concentration in the globe’s most attractive alpha opportunities.

21 Electron Capital Partners, LLC

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024222
