JAMES PATTERSON

Atty Alan Dershowitz. The offer is I count of Agg Assault
with intent to commit a felony, five years probation, with
adjudication withheld. Epstein would have to submit to psy-
chiatric/sexual evaluation and no unsupervised visits with
minors. When asked about all the other victims, ASA
Belohlavek stated that was the only offer made as to one vic-
tim, [Mary]. ASA Belohlavek|’s] cell phone rang and went to
voice mail. She checked her voice mail and played the mes-
sage on speaker. The caller identified himself as Atty Guy
Fronstin and acknowledged the deal made between them.
Fronstin stated in the message, he spoke with his client, Jef-
frey Epstein, and would agree to this deal. Fronstin asked to
call off the grand jury as they would accept this deal.
Belohlavek stated a probable cause would be needed to book
Epstein in the county Jail and would let me know as to when
it was needed. I explained my disapproval of the deal and not
being consulted prior to the deal being offered. However I
expressed that was only my opinion and the final approval
would come from the Chief of Police. She explained to have
Chief Reiter call Barry Krischer about the deal. I left the
area and returned to the police station where I briefed the
Chief about the deal offered.

I checked my voice mail messages and discovered a mes-
sage from [the] stepmother for the victim [Mary]. She was
calling because the State Attorney's Office still had not
returned any of her calls as to when they are needed for this
case. I then called ASA Belohlavek’s office and left messages
for her to call the victims on this case and explain to them
what the State Attorney’s Office had done.

168

» “Yeah.”

Michael Reiter: May 2(

plea offer?
Chief Reiter is o
sands of hours of we
evidence. But instead of goii
see Epstein get off with a
and a psych exam.
Why?
Alan Dershowitz has pre
Pieces of evidence —printot
In her “About Me” colu
Mary has written “Ass and e
Under “Ever drank” ant

Under “Ever shoplifted”:
Under “Ever skinny dipp

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010509
