Table of Contents

REFINANCING TRANSFER AGREEMENTS

On August 6, 2018, in connection with a refinancing transaction, we purchased finance receivables we had previously sold under the 2017
Master Transfer Agreement and simultaneously entered into a transfer agreement with a purchaser trust under which the trust immediately purchased such
finance receivables from us. On December 21, 2018, in connection with another refinancing transaction, we purchased finance receivables we had
previously sold under the 2017 Master Transfer Agreement and simultaneously entered into another transfer agreement with a purchaser trust under which
the trust purchased such finance receivables and other finances receivables from us. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we sold approximately
$477.9 million in principal balances of finance receivables under these transfer agreements.

The trusts engaged Carvana as the administrator of the trust and DriveTime as servicer of the receivables. In the year ended December 31,
2018, we had aggregate earnings of $0.0 thousand for performing trust administrator functions for the purchasers and DriveTime had aggregate earnings of
$1.5 million for performing servicing functions.

MASTER DEALER AGREEMENT

In December 2016, we entered into a master dealer agreement with DriveTime. Pursuant to this agreement, we may sell vehicle service
contracts (“VSCs”) to customers purchasing a vehicle from us. We earn a commission on each VSC sold to our customers and DriveTime is obligated by
and subsequently administers the VSCs. We collect the retail purchase price of the VSCs from our customers and remit the purchase price net of
commission to DriveTime. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we recognized approximately $23.7 million of commissions earned on VSCs sold to
our customers and administered by DriveTime, net of a reserve for estimated contract cancellations. On November 5, 2018 (effective October 1, 2018), we
amended the master dealer agreement to allow Carvana to receive payments for excess reserves based on the performance of the VSCs versus the reserves
held by the VSC administrator, once a required claims period for such VSCs has passed. During the year ended December 31, 2018, Carvana recognized
approximately $1.9 million related to payments for excess reserves to which it expects to be entitled.

Beginning in 2017, DriveTime also administers a portion of our GAP waiver coverage and the limited warranty provided to all customers under
the master dealer agreement. We pay a per-contract fee to DriveTime to administer a portion of the GAP waiver coverage we sell to our customers and a
per-vehicle fee to DriveTime to administer the limited warranty included with every purchase. We incurred costs of approximately $2.2 million during the
year ended December 31, 2018, related to the administration of GAP waiver coverage and limited warranty.

sAT =

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024356
