“Why we camp out here? I find that question as mysterious as you
do,” says Weingarten.

Shortly after Weingarten leaves, Epstein tells me that Eric Holder will
resign by the end of the week—which he does.

Epstein summons in the next person cooling his heels in the ante-
room. It’s a young man named Brook Pierce, a former child actor, and
dotcom high flyer—a principle in a gaming company called DEN, a
notorious dotcom burnout, with its own sex scandal—who is now a leading
investor in Bitcoin. He describe himself as the “the most active investor in
the field.”

And, indeed, is the first clear explanation I actually get about Bitcoin.
It is so good that Epstein stops him and checks to see if his next appointment
is here. And seconds later, Larry Summers, the former treasury secretary and
President of Harvard, enters the dining room. Summers, off Diet Coke, digs
deep into the Shakes chocolates, focuses in on the Bitcoin investor.

“Okay,” he says, after listening for a bit, “I have opportunities here.
But an additional feature of my decision problem roughly speaking 1s that
the worst that could happen to you is that you could lose all the money you
put into it. Whereas, I could go—I mean I don’t look that great now—but I
could go from being seen as a figure of some probity and some intelligence
to being a figure of much less intelligence and much less probity...”

“Well,” says Pierce in what in some dramatic understatement, “you
are going to have some low quality characters playing the space...”

That evening, there is a small cocktail party, which includes the former
Prime Minister of Australian, Kevin Rudd, and Thorbjorn Jaglandthe head
of the Noble Peace Prize Committee, who offers an affable, but general
scathing, critique of U.S. diplomacy (and a brief defense of Obama’s Peace
Prize award) and to whom Epstein offers a ride back to Europe on his jet.

The next morning, it’s Ehud Barack, the former Israeli Prime Minister
and Israel, for breakfast. Barack is, over his omelet, able to defend both
Obama and Putin. Then Kathy Ruemmler, who has just left her job as White
House Counsel joins. She is already in the mix as a possible next attorney
general, but, in fact, will withdraw from consideration in part to work with
Epstein.

Larry Summers wife, Elisa New, drops by. She teaches American
poetry at Harvard and is putting together a proposal for a series on poetry
that WGBH in Boston may produce and Epstein is advising on where she
might go for added support (he also makes mince meat of her budget).

MORE...TK

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022733
