COWEN
COLLABORATIVE INSIGHTS

62

February 25, 2019

e  Mary’s Whole Pet. Whole plant CBD remedies for pets, sold in retailers and
online in the U.S. and international markets.

Mary’s is a high-end brand, focused on clean delivery methods through its transdermal
patches, topicals and patented gel pen technologies. In March 2018, Mary’s Nutritionals
was chosen as the preferred CBD vendor partner for all Ritz Carlton, Marriott, JW
Marriott, W, and St. Regis Locations.

Mile High Labs. Based in Colorado, Mile High Labs is the largest extractor of CBD in the
world. The company sources hemp from third party cultivation partners across four
states, which include Colorado, Oregon, New York, and Kentucky. Mile High Labs
extracts exclusively from industrial hemp flower material to create full spectrum
extract, distillate and isolate. Their full spectrum extract contains a full range of CBD
terpenes and over 60% CBD on average, making it useful for low concentration
formulations in holistic and wellness applications, including tinctures and capsules. Mile
High Labs distillate is refined using proprietary molecular distillation technology and
contains ~85% CBD on average, making it ideal for vape pen cartridges, tinctures and
other high potency formulations. The company’s isolate contains ~99% CBD and is used
as a main ingredient in bioceutical and nutritional product applications. Mile High offers
end-to-end certified GMP hemp CBD manufacturing. In October 2018, Mile High Labs
raised $35 mm ina Series A, which according to CEO Jason Roth represented a “record-
breaking investment [which] is a reflection of the growth in demand for quality CBD
products and Mile High Labs’ unique ability to meet that demand.” CFO Jonathan Hilley
also recently noted that he believes “the CBD market is in the early stages of a 20-year
secular growth trend.”

Papa & Barkley. Papa & Barkley is based in California, with a diverse portfolio of
products and lines. The company’s Re/eaf line spans multiple form factors, including
tinctures, capsules, patches, and balms, among others, which are comprised of different
THC:CBD ratios. Papa & Barkley’s Essentials line is specifically focused on CBD, and as it
stands, they offer a tincture in both a 15 ml bottle (450 mg CBD) and 30 ml bottle (900
mg CBD) and will soon be rolling out capsules, as well as an extra strength pain balm.
The company is only in California currently, but is looking at going to market in three
other primary states, as well as three other secondary states.

Recess. Launched in October 2018, Recess is a wellness company currently specializing
in beverages which are infused with full spectrum hemp extract. The company has
positioned itself as a modern day lifestyle brand and daytime productivity enhancer that
offers a universal message and idea instead of being anchored specifically to CBD. This
strategy shares similarities with traditional CPG products, such as energy drinks and
soda, which are not marketed for the active ingredient, but instead as the solution.
While the current product portfolio includes sparkling beverages only, Recess plans on
rolling out a plain water, as well as powders, which will cater to on-premise
consumption occasions, such as coffee shops, juice shops and cocktail bars.

Reliva CBD Wellness. Reliva is a CBD-focused company, which form factors include
tincures, shots, sprays, topicals, gummies, and pet care. The company is run by Miguel
Martin, who previously served as the President and GM of Logic Technology
Development, an e-cigarette manufacturer in the U.S. Reliva’s products are focused on
value from an absolute pricing perspective, as nothing sells for over $19.99 at retail. The
company is unique insofar as they do not offer e-commerce, nor do they make and
claims on efficacy or rely on testimonials or influencer marketing, which Martin believes
will create a narrative on responsibility. Reliva focuses on independent c-stores and
grocery channels and is expected to be in ~1,000 stores by the end of March, growing to
4,000-5,000 stores by the end of the summer with the goal of doubling that store count
to ~10,000 locations by year-end.

COWEN.COM

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024878
