Teaching Kids to Walk and Talk 37

4; Clear goals and intellectual challenge
5: Independence, control, and active engagement
6: Learning from students

The second is from a Michigan State website and was taken from a
book by Arthur W. Chickering and Zelda F. Gamson entitled Seven
Principles for Good Practice in Undergraduate Education.’

Principle 1: Good practice encourages student-faculty contact

Principle 2: Good practice encourages cooperation among
students

Principle 3: Good practice encourages active learning

Principle 4: Good practice gives prompt feedback

Principle 5: Good practice emphasizes time on task

Principle 6: Good practice communicates high expectations

Principle 7: Good practice respects diverse talents and ways of
learning?

Whenever I see phrases like diverse talents or ways of learning or ac-
tive learning or active engagement | am very distrustful of the advice
being offered. Active learning should mean learning by doing, but it
never does because learning by doing is very difficult to implement
in the university context (which is where this advice comes from). It
is easier to do it in Ist grade, but after a while the class has to sit still
and listen and that is not active learning no matter what the teaching
guides say. Different learning styles is usually a way of saying, “some
people are dumber than others,” which no one wants to say. What
bothers me most about these kinds of lists is that they avoid saying
what really needs to be said. It is nearly impossible to measure your
success as an effective teacher because the performance expectations
of students are almost always about test scores and very rarely about
actual production.

With this idea in mind, that effective teaching means helping stu-
dents do what it is they wanted to do and not what it is that you want-
ed them to do, I will list the suggestions I have been scattering about
in this chapter. Bear in mind that this is not meant to be a complete
list. I got this list the way you saw, by interpreting things written by
students and former employees about their own experiences.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023777
