66 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

aware of the threat that [the NSA’s] unrestricted, secret abilities pose
for democracies,” he continued. “I hope you understand that con-
tacting you is extremely high risk and if you are willing to agree
to the following precautions before I share more, this will not be a
waste of your time.” Further playing on her concern, he asked her to
confirm to him “that no one has ever had a copy of your private key
and that it uses a strong pass phrase.” Such precautions were neces-
sary because “your adversary is capable of one trillion guesses per
second.” That “adversary” was, as she knew from her previous film,
the NSA. At this point, she knew she was entering into a dangerous
liaison with an unknown party in pursuit of NSA secrets. She won-
dered if he might be part of a plan to entrap her or her contacts like
Assange and Appelbaum, as she noted in her diary. “Is C4 a trap?”
she asked herself, referring to her Citizen Four source. “Will he put
me in prison?”

To elude this “adversary,” Snowden stressed to Poitras that she
would have to adopt a conspiratorial frame of mind. “If the device
you store the private key and enter your pass phrase on has been

© hacked, it is trivial to decrypt our communications,” he explained. “If ©
you publish the source material, I will likely be immediately impli-
cated.” If her correspondent could be “immediately implicated,” it
meant that he was a person authorized to handle these secrets. So
Poitras knew, as early as January 2013, that she was creating an
encrypted channel for someone with access to NSA secrets who
would be incriminated by providing them to her.

The key source for Poitras’s previously referred to short video
was Binney. Like her new source, he had been authorized to handle
NSA secrets. Binney had been an NSA technical director until he
had retired in 2001. The NSA‘s domestic surveillance program that
Binney told the press about years before being interviewed in Poi-
tras’s film was called Stellarwind. It involved data mining domestic
communications and financial transactions that had been authorized
by President George W. Bush in 2001 after 9/11 as commander-in-
chief under the war powers given to him following the attacks. It
indeed led to a major exposé on domestic spying by The New York
Times in December 2005.

Binney had never provided Poitras with any NSA documents

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 66 ® 9/30/16 11:09 AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019554
