JAMES PATTERSON

Kellen might have gone along with that. But in the end she
didn’t need to. Sources say she found another rich man as Epstein
whiled away his hours in and out of the Palm Beach Stockade.
She reinvented herself, and when her relationship with the
wealthy man fell apart, she played the field until she met and
married a race-car driver named Brian Vickers. Along the way
she reinvented herself yet again, changing her name to Sarah

Kensington.

Nadia Marcinkova

Nadia Marcinkova changed her surname to Marcinko and, after
training at a Palm Beach flight school, became a commercial
pilot and certified flight instructor. Calling herself Gulfstream
Girl on Facebook, she cultivated her social media presence until
2013, when the Gulfstream company filed a trademark infringe-
ment lawsuit against her. When the suit was settled out of court,
in 2014, Marcinko changed “Gulfstream” to “Global.”

“As a child.” she wrote for the “About Me” page on her web-
site, “Nadia channeled her entrepreneurial spirit by selling invi-
sible pets to neighboring kids. She continued on to manage a
successful family marketing business and soon she was disco-
vered by a modeling agency and immersed into the marketing
and advertising world as a spokesperson and international fash-

ion model.”
There is no mention of Jeffrey Epstein. But on her YouTube

channel, Marcinko appears in the cockpit ofa Gulfstream [I that ©
looks very much like Epstein’s Gulfstream, sitting beside a man =

who looks much like Larry Visoski, a pilot for Epstein.

282

Marcinko’s Manhattz
Jeffrey Epstein’s brother,
Sarah Kensington use

The Girls

One of the girls who gave
Angeles and became an
opera and appearing in
career in country music.

Several girls have bee
other nonviolent crimes.

One girl is dead—m
that had nothing to do wi

One of the girls who «
is now a successful real es

Mary moved back in
and attended college for
along the way. In 2010,
Mary, who was born in 1
young for a man of Jeffrey
ahead of her.

Wendy Dobbs studied
tender and waitress. “I w
[utilize] my communicati:
others,” she wrote on Lin
can make a difference in si
encourage others to make
teaching for the stars then

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022179
