of possible mouse travels is occupied. All the action is centered on a small set of
points. When such a minimal entropy person is injured and feeling helpless, their
stuckness can grow bizarre. Ruminative fixation in self-critical and persecutory
ideas extend into poisoned food anorexia, circular pacing, weight loss and middle-
of-the-night, worried insomnia. Suffused with sin, they ask forgiveness for soiling the
chair by their sitting in it or smelling up the room with their body odor.

At the high entropic extreme, the mouse orbits of the seductively dramatic,
new reality-creating hysteric includes big jumps, disorganized whorls and large and
small restless and short attention span scribbles that tend to fill up the entire screen.
The fragility of fixation at this end manifests itself in breakdown into impulsively out-
of-control and floridly dramatic displays. Their decrease in contact with reality
precipitates social chaos around them. The Montreal behavioral neurologist, Pierre
Flor-Henry, using electroencephalographic and psychological test data, described
the difference between these two extreme forms of personality expressions as the
overly dominant expressions of one or another of the /eft obsessional or right
hysteric hemispheric emotional styles. As examples, Flor-Henry said that a left half
brain depression feels like hopeless and agitated indecision and the depression of
the right brain is an experience of emptiness like homesickness. Left-brain
happiness is being exactly correct and right brain joy rushes like being especially
chosen.

The church going obsessional resonates with the sermon of the punitive
priest who invokes the tension and relief of sin and salvation. The practice can
result in a life long addiction to the transient high of this temporary forgiveness. In
other churches, the hysterical character gets spiritual respite in disassociative
visitations of the Holy Ghost and attendant signs and wonders. At Wednesday night
healing services, new hope arises from personal surrender in a floor hitting,
backward collapse called dying in the Lord. Both of these antipodal personalities
contrast with the more receptive state of in-between entropy (with enough entropy
available to form messages) which predicts more flexibility and higher potential for
undistorted information processing. Relatively style-less and ego-less people are

more open to hearing a variety of Gods in themselves and others. High alertness

25

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013525
