Competition. as well as Ihe beneficiary's Jean Luc Brunel. teading role within the
event. The 2006 Modek New Generation program was broadcast in over 202
countnes Ihroughout the word. Mr. Brune! has performed and wil mosi definitaly
continue to perform services os a leading porlicipani in modeling events, which
have © distinguished repuiation and wil bring more public inlemational ight io
MC2 Models.

For the above-mentioned reasons, Mr. Brunel satisfies INA §214.2(c) {3) [iv] (B}(1).

The second prong thot the beneficicry solisties is § CFR
$214. 2(oM3ivBN2). which requires evidence that the allen has achieved
notional or Iniernational recognition for achievement evidenced by crilicat
reviews of other published materials by or about ihe Individual in major
newspapers, trad¢ journals, magazines, or ofher publications.

Mr. Brunel holds an international reputaiion as a visible. stroiegic
networker who is able io cullivate exper! relationship management skills in order
fo conduc! business in o global envaonment and broker lucralive deals. Mr.
Brune! has a long hstory in marketing ond odvertising major fashion campaigns.
throughoul hs twenty-five year career in ihe fashion business. Mr. Brunel has
developed workiwide exclusive modeling and cosmehc campaigns. Some of
inese Major cosmetic compaigns include: Bio Therm with supermodel Bie
McPherson. PHAS with Rebecca Romijn. Chrstian Dior with Chssting
Semoannovskaya, Margret Astor wilh Monica Bellucci. Chane! with Patricia Von
Rickenheim. Angel Feriume wilh Thierry Mugler. and Cacharel Perfurne with
Alda Ballesita. Mr. Brunet has oo developed major fashion campaigns and has
developed campaigns and exclsive coniracis with some of ihe world’s top
fashion designers such as Yves Saint Laurent. Chanel, Christian Dior, Gucci,
Prada and More Jacobs Piease see ihe enclosed tetie: af Claudia Midolo.
President of Modelwork. a renowned modeling agency. EXHIBIT 8.

AS o talent coordinator, Mr Brunel's success can and should also be
measwed wilh ine successiul careers ine mode’. whose career; he launched,
have achieved As slated above. Mr Brune! has dscovered and represented
yorious super models throughout his career. Chrisly Turingfon. who was
discovered by Mr. Brunel. has personiliad unatiected beauty. representing
Calvin Klein's tragrances since 1987 Turlington, os well as another model
represented by Mr Brunel, Naomi Campbell, became one of the lew
supermodel, who managed fo make an easy transilion from the haute glamour
of the 1980's to the relaxed simplicity of the following decade. Throughout hei
exiensive career. ond os a resull of Mr, Brunel's “Fashion Savvy Eye”. Christy
Turlington bas graced ihe cover of hundreds of lashion magazines, such as
Cosmopolitan, W. Vogue, Shape. Fiiness, Ele. Bazgor. Marie Cloire, Harper's.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011987
