my muse sites and think it’s great! Also, Facebook groups has (almost) every niche imaginable. So what
I have found success in doing is: (1) Finding a niche group that would buy my muse, (2) sending a
message to each admin telling them how my muse will help their group members. Then politely asking
them to put a blurb in the “Recent News” section of the group. This makes it more trustworthy than a
wall post, and it stays up there (free advertising) until the admin removes it. One hundred times better
than a wall post. In one case, the admin purchased my muse, posted my note for me on the groups’
“Recent News” section, then e-mailed the entire group telling them they have to check out my site.

—GAVIN

50. Richard Tedlow, Giants of Enterprise: Seven Business Innovators and the Empires They Built
(2001; reprint, HarperBusiness, 2003).

51. This is adapted from “The Remote Control CEO,” Jnc. magazine, October 2005.

52. Actually, ’'m the ghost in new machines now, as I sold BrainQUICKEN in 2009 to a private
equity firm.

53. “Contract outsourcing companies” can be as simple as dependable web-based services. Don’t let
the term intimidate you.

54. Sample e-mail responses for fulfillment purposes can be found at www.fourhourblog.com.

55 Joseph Sugarman, Advertising Secrets of the Written Word (DelStar Books, 1998).

56 Depending on whose math is used (number of cars vs. gross sales), some claim the original
Volkswagen Beetle holds the record.

57. For the benefit of the customer and to capitalize on universal laziness (me included), provide as
much time as possible to consider or forget the product. Ginsu knives offered a 50-year guarantee.
Can you offer a 60-, 90-, or even 365-day guarantee’? Gauge average return percentages with a 30- or
60-day guarantee first (for budgeting calculations and cash-flow projections) and then extend it.

Step IV:
L is for Liberation

It is far better for a man to go wrong in
freedom than to go right in chains .

— THOMAS H. HUXLEY,
English biologist; known as “Darwin’s Bulldog”

12)

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013938
