Teaching Kids to Walk and Talk 17

subconscious pretty well does what it is in the habit of doing. The
subconscious is a habit-driven processot.

Bad habits, as they say, are hard to break. Actually, all habits, good
or bad, are hard to break. A new swing is really hard to develop, as is a
new way of selling, or a new way of treating people, or driving a new
route home.

This is the real use of education: the creation of new habits. This
can be done in only one way. The subconscious learns in only one
way.

The subconscious learns by repeated practice.

The only teaching that can work, then, is the kind of mentoring that
helps someone execute better while they are practicing.

How is a high school football coach different from a high school
history teacher?

Before we attempt to answer this question, we need to consider
why it is an important question to consider. In general, I think most
people would agree that the behavior of these two types of teachers is
likely to be quite different. In our mind’s eye, we see images of yelling
and crude behavior versus refined lecture and discussion. But let’s get
beyond the superficial stereotypes and think about what they teach
rather than their style of teaching it.

The history teacher at his worst teaches facts, and at his best teach-
es careful analysis of sources of facts.

The football coach at his worst teaches that someone could never
possibly do something, and at his best coaches someone to do some-
thing better.

The history teacher teaches the conscious. The football coach
teaches the subconscious.

This makes sense if we view education (in school) as a conscious
affair. It certainly seems to be a conscious affair. We discuss history,
we don’t do history. And, it makes sense in football since the coach
doesn’t need players who can discuss football—he needs players who
can execute.

It begins to make less sense when we consider how the conscious
and the subconscious interact.

As long as we see ourselves as rational beings who can think logi-
cally and make carefully reasoned decisions about our daily lives,
then education indeed should be about the promotion of reasoned

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023763
