of mathematical expression. There are also thousands of ways of being violent, and equally, ways of
counteracting such violence. But none of this takes away from the importance of biology, especially its
role in constraining the form that these expressions take in different environmental settings. To think
otherwise is just wrong.

The debate about version 1.5 of lethal aggression gains interest if we restrict the conversation to
the similarities and differences between chimpanzee and human killing. Similarities speak to our shared
evolutionary history, including the mechanisms we inherited and the pressures that favored this form of
violence. Differences speak to both changes in our biology and the environments we confronted and
created.

Those who argue that the comparison between human and chimpanzee killing lacks any
analytical value come from two different camps. On the one hand are anthropologists such as Robert
Sussman and Brian Ferguson who suggest that chimpanzee killing is infrequent, has little benefit in terms
of resources or competition, and is restricted to populations that are either artificially provisioned by
humans or crowded in by us. They also suggest that the archaeological evidence for human warfare
doesn’t really begin until about 12,000 years ago. As Ferguson notes “To argue that war is a result of
some sort of innate predisposition to wage it requires that war be practiced throughout our prehistoric
past.” This date, so Ferguson continues, is too recent to invoke natural selection as a cause, and leaves
unexplained why there is no earlier evidence of massive killing if our last common ancestors had this
capacity.

These criticisms either fly in the face of contradictory evidence or have little to do with the
original ideas. Concerning chimpanzee killing, the evidence comes from multiple sites in East and West
Africa, including sites with no provisioning and no crowding from humans. Further, analyses by
Wrangham and his colleagues show that humans living as hunter-gatherers or subsistence farmers on the
continents of Africa and South America, engage in coalitionary killing, using stealthy raids and
imbalances of power to minimize the costs and maximize the benefits. Looking at 32 different small
scale societies, calculations of the median death rate were between 164-595 per 100,000 per year.
Looking at 9 chimpanzee communities spanning 5 populations in Tanzania, Uganda, and Ivory Coast, the
rate was 69-287 per 100,000 per year. Chimpanzees fall well within the range of human hunter-gatherers
and subsistence farmers. This evidence not only shows parallels between chimpanzees and human
societies living under conditions most like our ancestors, but also provides a resounding rejection of the
view that chimpanzee killing is infrequent and of trivial importance. If the rates of killing are comparable,
then either they are trivial for both species or trivial for neither. Given that both chimpanzees and human
hunter-gatherers live in small groups, killing even a few individuals can have a dramatic effect on their

capacity to defend resources.

Hauser Chapter 1. Nature’s secrets 42

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012788
