wants to focus on the Asia-Pacific region and, surprisingly, it means what
it says.

Only a year after troops withdrew from Iraq, that country is not talked
about in Washington, like an embarrassing relative. In North Africa, the
US military has taken a back seat while the work of toppling Colonel
Muammar Qaddafi and driving back the jihadists in Mali has been left to
Franco-British forces. Syrian policy is one of drift, where the
administration finds all options unpalatable. In Egypt, Washington has set
a red line for the Muslim Brotherhood leadership: it must adhere to the
peace treaty with Israel. Everything else is negotiable.

This week the Pentagon revealed that it would no longer be stationing two
aircraft carriers in the Gulf region, as it has done for most of the past two
years, due to cuts in the defence budget, and the possibility of even more
stringent ones if Congress fails to agree on raising the US debt ceiling.

The Iranian nuclear programme remains a priority in Washington, but the
carrier decision indicates a less warlike stance. One cannot say that US
power is ebbing, but there is a clear lack of political will in Washington
for decisive action in the Middle East. For now, the logic is that regional
powers will have to take more responsibility. Egypt, although impotent at
the moment, will have to find its role. The US needs to talk to Iran if there
is ever going to be a compromise on its nuclear programme. Maybe Egypt
could help.

Both Egypt and Iran have denied a report that General Qassem Suleimani,
commander of the Quds force, a division of the Iranian Islamic
Revolutionary Guard Corps, and the man responsible for Iran's military
operations in Syria, visited Cairo in January. There was no reaction in
Washington to this report.

If there is going to be a resolution of the Syrian crisis without a decade of
Lebanon-style war, then allies of the US will have to speak to someone of
the calibre of Gen Suleimani, a far more important figure than Mr
Ahmadinejad. Could this lead to a historic compromise between the
Muslim Brotherhood and the ayatollahs to create a new Islamic front
spreading revolution?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028736
