29

This attitude shift proved universal across the region. Iraq was almost
never mentioned, nor was 9/11 or al Qaeda, and rather than rail at
what America had imposed on them, the young Arabs instead
criticized how America reacted to them. (President Obama’s failure
to support Egyptian revolutionaries until after Mubarak was clearly a
goner, and his inconsistency helping Libya’s rebels, but not Syria’s,
were both widely criticized.) By taking control of their own fates, in
reality and perception—highly important in this prideful culture—the
conversation has become more respectful and adult.

So it was that in 2011 I found myself having the kind of dialogue that
Hi, whose funding was pulled in 2005, had always aspired to have.
Over lunch in the dark basement of Tabouleh, a restaurant in Cairo’s
Garden City, seven Egyptian bloggers, including many of the digital
heroes of the Tahrir Square Facebook revolution, debated U.S.
subsidies to Egypt. “We don’t want money,” says one blogger, Safa.
“We want to make sure we go the right way.” No, counters Ahmad,
“we need the money, but it must be with no strings attached.”
Eventually, the talk turns to nuts-and-bolts democracy, the real
Jefferson-Hamilton stuff (one of the bloggers, Karim, had already
requested a translated copy of the Constitution): federalism, the role
of the military, and, above all, the peaceful transfer of power that
inspires quadrennial awe worldwide.

Such technology-fueled enlightenment comes with an equally
perilous downside, as evidenced by my conspiracy-minded Beirut
coffee-shop friend. Ask this group, or any others about basic political
facts—al Qaeda’s responsibility for 9/11, or the death of Osama bin
Laden—and even the most educated, whether blogger or student or
lawyer, will start popping off inanities. “Aw, they’re sick about
plots,” Gibran Tueni, the Western-oriented editor of Beirut’s Al-
Nahar had warned me on my first trip to the region, less than two
years before he was killed by a car bomb. “Whenever they see

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025025
