4.2.12
WC: 191694

Hare Krishna Murder

The most bizarre murder case I ever litigated involved a Hare Krishna leader in West Virginia,
who was charged with a wide assortment of crimes, ranging from murder—to copyright
infringement!

My clients real name was Keith Gordon Ham, but he called himself Kirtanananda Swami, or just
Swami, when he founded a Hare Krishna community in West Virginia, which he called New
Vrindaban. He became the absolute ruler of this cultish community, whose members testified that
he exercised total control over all aspects of community life. Vrindaban became a magnet for
people who wanted to lose their identity beneath the saffron robes and changed names, including
several members with criminal records and violent backgrounds. The community expanded to
3,000 acres with 500 “devotees” and profits from solicitations that reached $10-12 million. Much
of this money was allegedly obtained by selling counterfeit copywrited images of sports teams and
popular cartoon characters. Hence the copyright charge.

The events that precipitated the murder prosecution were described by the court as follows:

The. ..incident involved the murder of devotee and community member Charles St. Denis
on June 10, 1983. When community member Daniel Reid learned that St. Denis had raped
Reid's wife, Reid decided to kill St. Denis. Before attempting to murder St. Denis, Reid
consulted Swami. Swami instructed Reid that the killing was acceptable under Krishna
scriptures, but that such action violated secular laws and that Reid might be caught and
punished. Swami then directed Reid to talk to Thomas A. Drescher, a fellow devotee.
When Reid approached Drescher and told him what Swami had said, Drescher testified he
felt duty bound to help Reid kill St. Denis. The two then enticed St. Denis to Reid's house
one night, shot and stabbed him several times, and then buried him in a pre-dug grave
before he was dead.

[Another] incident likewise involved the murder of a devotee. In 1985, Steven Bryant, a
former New Vrindaban devotee, began publishing statements accusing Swami of engaging
in homosexual activity and permitting sexual molestation of children in the community.
Around April of 1986, members of the Krishna community in Los Angeles notified
Drescher that Bryant was in Los Angeles. Drescher received $2,500 from the New
Vrindaban community, authorized by Swami, and flew to Los Angeles. He located Bryant
and shot him twice in the head.

Swami and several of his lieutenants were convicted and sentenced to long terms of
imprisonment. I was asked to appeal Swami’s conviction. I read the transcript of the trial and
found it to be filled with prejudicial evidence that was irrelevant to whether Swami was
responsible for the crimes of his followers. I took this case not because I approved of anything
about Swami, but because I believe that if the most reviled defendants are not afforded a fair trial,
there is grave risk to all defendants. Greta Van Susteren, then a lawyer now a TV commentator,
was retained by one of the lutenants.

208

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017295
