Eurozone political calendar 2017

4 December: Italian constitutional referendum

Our base case is a close “No” vote where Renzi stays and no snap election, given
current polls and the outstanding electoral reform court case. BTPs and the banks
recaps remain a tail risks for the Italian economy, although the ECB extending QE
should help. A big “No” vote would boost Five Star and undermine Renzi into 2018
elections, in our view.

4 December: Austrian presidential election

Polls by public broadcaster ORF show the result as very close. Norbert Hofer is
standing on an anti-immigrant platform against the moderate former Green leader
Alexander Van der Bellen in a rerun of the May vote. The election of Freedom party
candidate Norbert Hofer would make Austria the first nation to elect a head of state
running on a far right platform since the EU began.

22/ 29 Jan: French Socialist Party presidential nominee elections

If President Francois Hollande decides to run for re-election as the Socialist Party
candidate (decision expected Dec 10th) he could be challenged by former Prime
Minister Manuel Valls and Economy Minister Arnaud Montebourg. Current second
round polls for any combination of these candidates suggest likely Socialist nominee
too close to call.

15 March 2017: Dutch elections

Prime Minister Mark Rutte currently leads a “purple” coalition with the Dutch Labour
party as main second party. But the latest polls suggest both parties could win fewer
seats than they have now in 2017. That could make it more challenging to build a
government given the need to secure at least 76/150 seats. In terms of who could
lead that coalition, polls have Rutte’s People’s Party neck and neck with the anti-
immigrant Freedom party led by populist Geert Wilders. Wilders has called for the
Netherlands to leave the EU indicated he would call a referendum if elected. A
Wilder-Rutte coalition also hasn’t been ruled out according to press reports.

23 April: French first round presidential elections

The first round of voting for the next French president will be on 23 April. First
round polling suggests the leader of the anti-EU Front National Marine Le Pen is
expected to progress to the decisive runoff. At present Republican Candidate
Francois Fillon is also expected to make it through.

7 May 2017: French second round presidential elections

Current polls, albeit their validity has been called into question by events in 2016,
show Fillon securing 65-70% of the vote vs Le Pen in a runoff (see chart below). We
note that when her father, Jean-Marie Le Pen, faced Jacques Chirac in the 2002
Presidential elections the FN candidate only received 18% of the vote. Nevertheless,
we see a potential Le Pen win as the biggest political risk event for European (and
possibly global) equity markets in 2017.

By 22 October 2017: German Federal elections

Current Chancellor Angela Merkel has announced that she intends to stand for re-
election. Current polls have Merkel’s CDU ahead followed by SDP with the euro-
sceptic Alternative fur Deutschland, Greens and Die Linke competing for third spot.
While it may be necessary for Merkel to maintain the grand coalition with the SDP,
our central case is that we see a continuation of the current German administration
and that German elections carry less risk than the earlier French presidential
elections.

Bankof America

Merrill Lynch European Equity Strategy |O1 December 2016 15

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014474
