Fittuy Ricu

\TTERSON

fia yacht surrounded by topless ' which I don’t think is right,” she said a few days later when inter-
viewed by Today host Matt Lauer. “It’s a defamation of character,

suit, Epstein had forced her into and as a great father and a humongously good man and all the

eff's work he does for Britain I won't stand by and let him have his

character defamed to this level.”
But at the same time, a certain schadenfreude attended the

British press were using another good man’s fall from grace, and former associates kept coming

x Island. The Guardian reported
slands—based corporations owned
wife of the governor of the Virgin
, involving a million-dollar dona-

out of the woodwork to dish to the press.

“I've seen him treat his staff in a shocking, appalling way,”
said a former aide to the prince. “He’s been incredibly rude to his
personal protection officers, literally throwing things on the
ground and demanding they ‘fucking pick them up’ No social
graces at all. Sure, if you're a lady with blond hair and big boobs,
then I bet he’s utterly charming.”

o the governor’s reelection cam-
sberts’s claim that she had been

rince on the island as well as in

. of Prince Andrew with his arm
rery young-looking Virginia Rob- Fy
ired in the tabloids.
hat the Duke of York had any form E
ship” with Roberts, Buckingham j
ay. “The allegations made are false | |
3 | five hundred thousand pounds in return for access to the prince.

: Despite all this, the prince had stuck by Epstein. There was even
ca photo, frequently trotted out by the tabloids, of the two of them
_ strolling in Central Park.

Some few months before it was taken, a reporter posing as a
_ businessman had secretly taped Sarah Ferguson’s demand for

_ “If you want to meet him in your business,” she'd said then,
“Took after me, and he'll look after you. You'll get it back tenfold.”
“Once again,” she said afterward, “my errors have com-

h Ferguson, the Duchess of York, si
e prince and their daughter Euge- E
ters, “He is the greatest man the
of my life in 1986 when I marrieé
st in the world.”
se I know what it feels like to ha v
rou—and not support him so pu :;
shockingly accusatory allegation

Pounded and rebounded and also impacted on the man I admire
Most in the world: the Duke.”

_ Prince Andrew had had his troubles already—with shady
feal estate deals, sticky romances, highly embarrassing docu-
ment dumps (courtesy of Julian Assange and WikiLeaks), and

222

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022030
