KEITH BLACK

Keith L. Black (born September 13, 1957) is an American
neurosurgeon specialising in the treatment of brain tumors
and a prolific campaigner for funding of cancer treatment.
He is chairman of the neurosurgery department and
director of the Maxine Dunitz Neurosurgical Institute at
Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, California.

Keith Black was born in Tuskegee, Alabama. His
mother, Lillian, was a teacher and his father, Robert, was the
principal at a racially segregated elementary school in Auburn,
Alabama; prohibited by law to integrate the student body,
Black’s father instead integrated the faculty, raised standards,
and brought more challenging subjects to the school. Later in
his childhood, Black’s parents found new jobs and relocated
the family to Shaker Heights, Ohio. Black attended Shaker
Heights High School. Already interested in medicine, Black
was admitted to an apprenticeship program for minority
students at Case Western Reserve University, and then became
a teenaged lab assistant for Frederick Cross and Richard
Jones (inventors of the Cross-Jones artificial heart valve) at
St. Luke’s Hospital in Cleveland. At 17, he won an award ina
national science competition for research on the damage done
to red blood cells in patients with heart-valve replacements.
According to Black: “I was working in the lab of a heart surgeon
who had developed his own artificial heart valve, and Ihad a
concept that the heart valve might be damaging red blood cells,
so I asked to do a research project using a scanning electron
microscope at the time. When I was trying to basically learn
the technique, I took some blood from the heart-lung bypass
machine from patients undergoing heart-lung bypass, and
when I incubated the red blood cells overnight, I noticed that
a certain percentage of these cells change from their normal
discoid shape to one that resembled a porcupine, called an
econocyte. What I did was to describe the discocyte-econocyte
transformation in patients undergoing heart-lung bypass, as
an index of sub-lethal red blood cell damage. The importance
being that the blood cells could not parachute through the
small capillaries.” He attended the University of Michigan in
a program that allowed him to earn both his undergraduate
degree and his medical degree in 6 years. He received his M.D.
degree from the University of Michigan Medical School in 1981.

After serving his internship and residency at the

University of Michigan, in 1987 he moved to the UCLA
Medical Center in Los Angeles, where he later became head
of UCLA’s Comprehensive Brain Tumor Program. In 1997,
after 10 years at UCLA, he moved to Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center to head the Maxine Dunitz Neurosurgical Institute.
He was also on the faculty of the University of California,
Irvine School of Medicine from 1998 to 2003. In 2007 he
opened the new Johnnie L. Cochran Jr. Brain Tumor Center
at Cedars-Sinai, a research center named after the famous
lawyer who had been Black’s patient and supporter.

Black has been a frequent subject of media reports
on medical advances in neurosurgery. He was featured
in a 1996 episode of the PBS program The New Explorers
entitled “Outsmarting the Brain”. Esquire included him in
its November 1999 “Genius Issue” as one of the “21 Most
Important People of the 21st Century.” He has been cited as
an expert in reports about whether mobile phone use affects
the incidence of brain tumors. He is also noted for his very
busy surgery schedule: a 2004 Discover article noted that he
performs about 250 brain surgeries per year, and that at age 46
he had “already performed more than 4,000 brain surgeries,
the medical equivalent of closing in on baseball’s all-time
career hits record.” (As of 2009, Black’s surgery count had risen
to “more than 5,000 operations for resection of brain tumors”.)

In 1997, Time magazine featured Black on the
cover of a special edition called “Heroes of Medicine”. The
accompanying article described Black’s reputation as a
surgeon who would operate on tumors that other doctors
would not, as well as aspects of his medical research,
including his discovery that the peptide bradykinin can
be effective in opening the blood-brain barrier.

In 2009 Black published his autobiography, co-
authored with Arnold Mann, entitled Brain Surgeon. New
York Times reviewer Abigail Zuger described the book as a
“fascinating, if somewhat stilted, memoir”. The Publishers
Weekly review commented that the book “examines
racial hurdles he had to leap to become a neurosurgeon”
and “alternat[es] incisive writing about incisions with
his personal memoir, insightful and inspirational.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017530
