pretexts [mojavez'e Shari, he explained. They can make the case that if they didn't
frequent prostitutes and drink alcohol they would appear to be [terrorists] and raise

suspicions.”

In essence, the Iranian regime's approach toward sex, like its philosophy of governance, is
marked by maslahat, or expediency, and used alternately as a tool of suppression,
inducement, and incitement. In the summer of 2009, when hundreds of thousands of
Iranians took to the streets to protest Ahmadinejad's reelection, many protesters were
brutally beaten by the Basij militia, gangs of young regime thugs on motorbikes who were
given a green light to quell the uprising. As Iranian-American academic Shervin
Malekzadeh reported from Tehran, the Basij seemed to be driven by a combination of class
resentment and pent-up frustration. They don't screw; they don't drink or smoke joints,”

one of his sources told him. What else are they going to do with all of that energy?

But perhaps the seminal -- and most heartbreaking -- moment of the Green Revolution
was the murder of a 26-year-old female protester, Neda Agha-Soltan, whose bloody death
was caught on cell-phone camera and rendered one of the most viral videos in history. In
an HBO documentary about her life, Neda's mother recalls a message that some
sympathetic female Basij members relayed to Neda days before she was killed by a sniper:
Dear, please don't come out looking so beautiful.... Do us a favor and don't come out

because the Basiji men target beautiful girls. And they will shoot you.

While the iconic faces of Iran's 1979 revolution were bearded, middle-aged men, Neda has
come to symbolize the new face of dissent in 21st-century Iran: a young, modern, educated
woman. For her opposition to the regime and to the hijab, she is the embodiment of fitna

in Khamenei's eyes.

THREE SPRINGS LATER, the Iranian regime once again is faced with a crisis, this

time of an external variety. As Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu threatens war
in between meals, the Pentagon plays war games and policy planners huddle in the White
House: Is the Iranian regime rational or irrational? Can diplomatic negotioations prevent

Iran from obtaining a bomb, or is an attack on Iran's nuclear facilities inevitable?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026561
