TED2017: The future you

4/20/17, 12:07 PM

vision, computational physiology, global seismic monitoring and philosophical foundations.

He also works for the United Nations, developing a new global seismic monitoring system for the nuclear-test-ban treaty. His current
concerns include the threat of autonomous weapons and the long-term future of artificial intelligence and its relation to humanity.

eecs berkeley.edu/~russell

Joseph Redmon
Computer scientist

Joseph Redmon works on the YOLO algorithm, which combines the simple face detection of your phone camera with a cloud-based AI --
in real time.

Computer scientist Joseph Redmon is working on the YOLO (You Only Look Once) algorithm, which has a simple goal: to deliver image
recognition and object detection at a speed that would seem science-fictional only a few years ago. The algorithm looks like the simple face
detection of a camera app but with the level complexity of systems like Google's Deep Mind Cloud Vision, using Convolutional Deep
Neural Networks to crunch object detection in realtime. It's the kind of technology that will be embedded on all smartphones in the next
few years.

Redmon is also internet-famous for his resume.

pjreddie.com @pijreddie

Tom Gruber
AI developer

As co-creator of Siri, Tom Gruber helped redefine the role of machine intelligence in our lives and transformed the way we interact with
our devices.

By connecting humans and machines with AI, designer, inventor and polymath Tom Gruber is opening up new ways to improve our lives
and augment human intelligence.

Gruber led the team that revolutionized human-machine interaction with Siri, the intelligent personal assistant that can understand your
spoken language and help you get things done. Launched in 2010, Siri is now used billions of times a week in more than 30 countries
around the world.

tomgruber.org

Radhika Nagpal
Robotics engineer

Taking cues from bottom-up biological networks like those of social insects, Radhika Nagpal helped design an unprecedented “swarm” of
ant-like robots.

With a swarm of 1,024 robots inspired by the design of ant colonies, Radhika Nagpal and her colleagues at Harvard’s SSR research group
have redefined expectations for self-organizing robotic systems. Guided by algorithms, Nagpal’s shockingly simple robots guide
themselves into a variety of shapes -- an ability that, brought to scale, might lead to applications like disaster rescue, space exploration and
beyond.

In addition to her work with biologically inspired robots, Nagpal helped create ROOT, a simple robot to teach coding to would-be
programmers through a simple user interface suitable for students of all ages.

radhikanagpal.org eecs harvard.edu/ssr

Tuesday, April 25, 11:00AM - 12:45PM PDT

Session 3: The Human Response
Hosted by Chris Anderson and Kelly Stoetzel.

https://ted2017.ted.com/program

Rutger Bregman

Historian
Rutger Bregman is the author of the new Utopia for Realists.”

Rutger Bregman is one of Europe’s most prominent young thinkers. The 28-year-old historian and author has published four books on
history, philosophy and economics. His History of Progress was awarded the Belgian Liberales prize for best nonfiction book of 2013. The
Dutch edition of Utopia for Realists became a national bestseller and will be translated in 16 languages this year. Bregman has twice been
nominated for the prestigious European Press Prize for his journalism work at The Correspondent. His work has been featured in The
Washington Post and The Guardian and on the BBC.

rutgerbregman.com @rcbregman

Page 4 of 21

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014954
