Trump would shortly become a Gorsuch fan. But before settling on Gorsuch, he wondered
why the job wasn’t going to a friend and loyalist. In the Trump view, it was rather a waste
to give the job to someone he didn’t even know.

At various points in the process he had run through almost all his lawyer friends—all
of them unlikely, if not peculiar, choices, and, in almost every case, political nonstarters.
The one unlikely, peculiar, and nonstarter choice that he kept returning to was Rudy
Gtuliani.

Trump owed Giuliani; not that he was so terribly focused on his debts, but this was one
that was certainly unpaid. Not only was Giuliani a longtime New York friend, but when
few Republicans were offering Trump their support, and almost none with a national
reputation, Giuliani was there for him—and in combative, fiery, and relentless fashion.
This was particularly true during the hard days following Billy Bush: when virtually
everybody, including the candidate himself, Bannon, Conway, and his children, believed
the campaign would implode, Giuliani barely allowed himself a break from his nonstop,
passionate, and unapologetic Trump defense.

Giuliani wanted to be the secretary of state, and Trump had in so many words offered
him the job. The resistance to Giuliani from the Trump circle derived from the same
reason Trump was inclined to give him the job—Giuliani had Trump’s ear and wouldn’t
let go. The staff whispered about his health and stability. Even his full-on pussygate
defense now started to seem like a liability. He was offered attorney general, Department
of Homeland Security, and director of national intelligence, but he turned them all down,
continuing to hold out for State. Or, in what staffers took to be the ultimate presumption,
or grand triangulation, the Supreme Court. Since Trump could not put someone openly
pro-choice on the court without both sundering his base and risking defeat of his nominee,
then, of course, he’d have to give Giuliani State.

When this strategy failed—Rex Tillerson got the secretary of state job—that should
have been the end of it, but Trump kept returning to the idea of putting Giuliani on the
court. On February 8, during the confirmation process, Gorsuch took public exception to
Trump’s disparagement of the courts. Trump, in a moment of pique, decided to pull his
nomination and, during conversations with his after-dinner callers, went back to
discussing how he should have given the nod to Rudy. He was the only loyal guy. It was
Bannon and Priebus who kept having to remind him, and to endlessly repeat, that in one of
the campaign’s few masterful pieces of issue-defusing politics, and perfect courtship of the
conservative base, it had let the Federalist Society produce a list of candidates. The
campaign had promised that the nominee would come from that list—and needless to say,
Giuliani wasn’t on it.

Gorsuch was it. And Trump would shortly not remember when he had ever wanted
anyone but Gorsuch.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019949
