the president as a member of its senior management in its
annual filing with SEC and in annual reports. Additionally,
the parent's legal department approved the retention of the
third-party agent through whom the bribes were arranged
despite a lack of documented due diligence and an agency
agreement that violated corporate policy; also, an official of
the parent approved one of the payments to the third-party
agent.'*! Under these circumstances, the parent company
had sufficient knowledge and control of its subsidiary’s
actions to be liable under the FCPA.

Successor Liability

Companies acquire a host of liabilities when they
merge with or acquire another company, including those aris-
ing out of contracts, torts, regulations, and statutes. As a gen-
eral legal matter, when a company merges with or acquires
another company, the successor company assumes the prede-
cessor company’s liabilities.’* Successor liability is an integral
component of corporate law and, among other things, pre-
vents companies from avoiding liability by reorganizing.'”
Successor liability applies to all kinds of civil and criminal
liabilities,!** and FCPA violations are no exception. Whether
successor liability applies to a particular corporate transac-
tion depends on the facts and the applicable state, federal,
and foreign law. Successor liability does not, however, create
liability where none existed before. For example, if an issuer
were to acquire a foreign company that was not previously
subject to the FCPA’s jurisdiction, the mere acquisition of
that foreign company would not retroactively create FCPA
liability for the acquiring issuer.

DOJ and SEC encourage companies to conduct pre-
acquisition due diligence and improve compliance pro-
grams and internal controls after acquisition for a variety
of reasons. First, due diligence helps an acquiring company
to accurately value the target company. Contracts obtained
through bribes may be legally unenforceable, business
obtained illegally may be lost when bribe payments are
stopped, there may be liability for prior illegal conduct, and
the prior corrupt acts may harm the acquiring company’s
reputation and future business prospects. Identifying these

issues before an acquisition allows companies to better

The FCPA:

Anti-Bribery Provisions

evaluate any potential post-acquisition liability and thus
properly assess the target's value.'® Second, due diligence
reduces the risk that the acquired company will continue to
pay bribes. Proper pre-acquisition due diligence can iden-
tify business and regional risks and can also lay the founda-
tion for a swift and successful post-acquisition integration
into the acquiring company’s corporate control and com-
pliance environment. Third, the consequences of potential
violations uncovered through due diligence can be handled
by the parties in an orderly and efficient manner through
negotiation of the costs and responsibilities for the inves-
tigation and remediation. Finally, comprehensive due dili-
gence demonstrates a genuine commitment to uncovering
and preventing FCPA violations.

In a significant number of instances, DOJ and
SEC have declined to take action against companies
that voluntarily disclosed and remediated conduct
and cooperated with DOJ and SEC in the merger and
acquisition context. And DOJ and SEC have only
taken action against successor companies in limited cir-
cumstances, generally in cases involving egregious and
sustained violations or where the successor company
directly participated in the violations or failed to stop the
misconduct from continuing after the acquisition. In one
case, a U.S.-based issuer was charged with books and records
and internal controls violations for continuing a kickback
scheme originated by its predecessor.’ Another recent case
involved a merger between two tobacco leaf merchants,
where prior to the merger each company committed
FCPA violations through its foreign subsidiaries, involving
multiple countries over the course of many years. At each
company, the bribes were directed by the parent company’s
senior management. The two issuers then merged to form
a new public company. Under these circumstances—the

merger of two public companies that had each engaged in

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022530

