Chapter 7
A Formal Model of Intelligent Agents

7.1 Introduction

The artificial intelligence field is full of sophisticated mathematical models and equations, but
most of these are highly specialized in nature — e.g. formalizations of particular logic systems,
analyzes of the dynamics of specific sorts of neural nets, etc. On the other hand, a number of
highly general models of intelligent systems also exist, including Hutter’s recent formalization
of universal intelligence [[ut05] and a large body of work in the disciplines of systems science
and cybernetics — but these have tended not to yield many specific lessons useful for engineering
AGI systems, serving more as conceptual models in mathematical form.

It would be fantastic to have a mathematical theory bridging these extremes — a real general
theory of general intelligence, allowing the derivation and analysis of specific structures and
processes playing a role in practical AGI systems, from broad mathematical models of general
intelligence in various situations and under various constraints. However, the path to such a
theory is not entirely clear at present; and, as valuable as such a theory would be, we don’t
believe such a thing to be necessary for creating advanced AGI. One possibility is that the
development of such a theory will occur contemporaneously and synergetically with the advent
of practical AGI technology.

Lacking a mature, pragmatically useful general theory of general intelligence, however, we
have still found it valuable to articulate certain theoretical ideas about the nature of general
intelligence, with a level of rigor a bit greater than the wholly informal discussions of the previous
chapters. The chapters in this section of the book articulate some ideas we have developed in
pursuit of a general theory of general intelligence; ideas that, even in their current relatively
undeveloped form, have been very helpful in guiding our concrete work on the CogPrime design.

This chapter presents a more formal version of the notion of intelligence as “achieving complex
goals in complex environments,” based on a formal model of intelligent agents. These formal-
izations of agents and intelligence will be used in later chapters as a foundation for formalizing
other concepts like inference and cognitive synergy. Chapters 8 and 9 pursue the notion of cog-
nitive synergy a little more thoroughly than was done in previous chapters. Chapter 10 sketches
a general theory of general intelligence using tools from category theory — not bringing it to the
level where one can use it to derive specific AGI algorithms and structures; but still, presenting
ideas that will be helpful in interpreting and explaining specific aspects of the CogPrime design
in Part 2. Finally, Appendix ?? explores an additional theoretical direction, in which the mind
of an intelligent system is viewed in terms of certain curved spaces — a novel way of thinking

129

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013045
