with wit and arresting thought expertments—Dennett shows how culture enables reflection by installing a
bounty of thinking tools, or memes, in our brains. Language, itself composed of memes, turbocharged this
interplay. The result, a mind that can comprehend the questions it poses, emerges from a process of cultural
evolution.

An agenda-setting book for a new generation of philosophers and other researchers, From Bacteria to Bach and
Back will delight and entertain anyone who hopes to understand human creativity in all its wondrous
applications.

DANIEL C. DENNETT is the author of Intuition Pumps, Breaking the Spell, Freedom Evolves, and
Consciousness Explained. He is the University Professor and Austin B. Fletcher Professor of Philosophy, and
co-director of the Center for Cognitive Studies at Tufts University.

-o

A CRACK IN CREATION

Gene Editing and the Unthinkable Power to Control Evolution

By Jennifer A. Doudna and Samuel H. Sternberg

[US — Houghton Mifflin, UK — Bodley Head, China — Hunan Science, Audio — Audible; Manuscript; Pub
Date: June 2017; 320 pages]

In the tradition of The Double Helix, A Crack in Creation is an insider’s account of the biggest scientific
discovery of our era: a cheap, easy way of rewriting genetic code, with nearly limitless promise and peril.

Not since the atomic bomb has a technology so alarmed its inventors that they warned the world against its use.
Not, that is, until the spring of 2015, when biologist Jennifer Doudna called for a worldwide moratorium on the
use of the new gene-editing tool CRISPR to make heritable changes in human embryos. The cheapest, simplest,
most effective way of manipulating DNA ever known, CRISPR may well give us the cure to HIV, genetic
diseases, and some cancers, and will help address the world’s hunger crisis. Yet even the tiniest changes to DNA
could have myriad, unforeseeable consequences—to say nothing of the ethical and societal repercussions of
intentionally mutating embryos to create better humans.

Writing with fellow researcher Samuel Sternberg, Doudna shares the thrilling story of her discovery, and
passionately argues that enormous responsibility comes with the ability to rewrite the code of life. With
CRISPR, she shows, we have effectively taken control of evolution. What will we do with this unfathomable
power?

JENNIFER A. DOUDNA 1s a professor in the Chemistry and the Molecular and Cell Biology Departments at
the University of California, Berkeley, investigator with the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, and researcher in
the Physical Biosciences Division at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. She is internationally
recognized as a leading expert on RNA-protein structure and function, CRISPR biology, and genome
engineering.

SAMUEL H. STERNBERG received his PhD from the University of California, Berkeley, in 2014, and has
been a member of Jennifer Doudna’s laboratory since 2010. He was a lead researcher and author of numerous
high-profile publications on the CRISPR technology. He has been awarded the RNA Society’s Scaringe Award
and the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center’s Harold M. Weintraub Graduate Student Award, among other
honors.

Brockman, Inc. Frankfurt 2016 Hotlist
5-

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025151
