Thank you for reviewing this publication
which is intended to discuss general
market activity, industry or sector
trends, or other broad-based economic,
market or political conditions. It should
not be construed as research. Any
reference to a specific company or
security is for illustrative purposes and
does not constitute a recommendation
to buy, sell, hold or directly invest in the
company or its securities.

Investment Strategy Group. The
Investment Strategy Group (ISG} is
focused on asset allocation strategy
formation and market analysis for

Private Wealth Management. Any
information that references ISG,
including their model portfolios,
represents the views of ISG, is not
research and is nota product of Global
nvestment Research or Goldman Sachs
Asset Management, L.P (GSAM)}. The
views and opinions expressed may differ
rom those expressed by other groups
of Goldman Sachs. If shown, ISG Model
Portfolios are provided for illustrative
urposes only. Your asset allocation,
actical tilts and portfolio performance
may look significantly different based on
your particular circumstances and ris
olerance.

Not a Municipal Advisor. Except in
circumstances where Goldman Sachs
expressly agrees otherwise, Goldman
Sachs is not acting as a municipa
advisor and the opinions or views
contained in this presentation are not

intended to be, and do not constitute,

advice, including within the meaning of
Section 15B of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934.

Forecasts. Economic and marke
forecasts presented herein reflect our
(ISG’s} judgment as of the date of this
material and are subject to change
without notice. Any return expectations
represent forecasts as of the date of this
material and are based upon our capital
market assumptions. Our (ISG’s) return
expectations should not be taken as an
indication or projection of returns of

any given investment or strategy and all
are subject to change. These forecasts
are estimated, based on assumptions,
and are subject to significant revision
and may change materially as economic
and market conditions change. Goldman
Sachs has no obligation to provide
updates or changes to these forecasts.

f shown, case studies and examples are
or illustrative purposes only.

o

Indices. Any references to indices,
enchmarks or other measure of
relative market performance over a
specified period of time are provided

or your information only. Indices are
unmanaged. Investors cannot invest
directly in indices. The figures for

he index reflect the reinvestment of
dividends and other earnings but do not
reflect the deduction of advisory fees,
ransaction costs and other expenses

a client would have paid, which would
reduce returns. Past performance is not
indicative of future results.

JPMorgan Indices. Information has

been obtained from sources believed

to be reliable but JPMorgan does not
warrant its completeness or accuracy.
The JPMorgan GBI Broad, JPMorgan
EMBI Global Diversified and JPMorgan
GBI-EM Global Diversified are used
with permission and may not be copied,
used, or distributed without JPMorgan’s
prior written approval. Copyright 2017,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. All rights
reserved.

S&P Indices. “Standard & Poor's” and
“S&P” are registered trademarks of
Standard & Poor's Financial Services
LLC (S&P) and Dow Jones is a
registered trademark of Dow Jones
Trademark Holdings LLC (Dow Jones”)
and have been licensed for use by S&P
Dow Jones Indices LLC and sublicensed
or certain purposes by The Goldman
Sachs Group, Inc. The “S&P 500 Index”
isa product of S&P Dow Jones Indices
LLC, and has been licensed for use

y The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. is not
sponsored, endorsed, sold or promoted
y S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC, Dow
Jones, S&P, their respective affiliates,
and neither S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC,
Dow Jones, S&P, or their respective
affiliates make any representation
regarding the advisability of investing in
such product(s}.

EURO Stoxx 50. The EURO STOXX 50®
is the intellectual property (including
registered trademarks} of STOXX
Limited, Zurich, Switzerland and/or its
icensors (Licensors”}, which is used
under license.

MSCI Indices. The MSCI indices are

he exclusive property of MSCI Inc.
*MSCI}. MSCI and the MSCI index
names are service mark(s} of MSCI or
its affiliates and are licensed for use for
certain purposes by The Goldman Sachs
Group, Inc.

Barclays Capital Indices. © 2017
Barclays Capital Inc. Used with
ermission.

Tokyo Stock Exchange Indices. Indices
including TOPIX (Tokyo Stock Price
ndex}, calculated and published by
Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc. (TSE}, are
intellectual properties that belong to
TSE. All rights to calculate, publicize,
disseminate, and use the indices

are reserved by TSE. © Tokyo Stock
Exchange, Inc. 2017. All rights reserved.

Investment Risks. Risks vary by

the type of investment. For example,
investments that involve futures, equity
swaps, and other derivatives, as well
as non-investment grade securities,
give rise to substantial risk and are not
available to or suitable for all investors.
We have described some of the risks
associated with certain investments
below. Additional information regarding
risks may be available in the materials
provided in connection with specific
investments. You should not enter into
a transaction or make an investment
unless you understand the terms of

the transaction or investment and the
nature and extent of the associated
risks. You should also be satisfied that
the investment is appropriate for you in
light of your circumstances and financial
condition.

Altemative investments. Alternative
investments may involve a substantial
degree of risk, including the risk of total
loss of an investor's capital and the use
of leverage, and therefore may not be
appropriate for all investors. Private
equity, private real estate, hedge funds
and other alternative investments
structured as private investmen
funds are subject to less regulation

than other types of pooled vehicles

and liquidity may be limited. Investors

in private investment funds should
review the Offering Memorandum,

the Subscription Agreement and any
other applicable disclosures for risks
and potential conflicts of interest.
Terms and conditions governing private
investments are contained in the
applicable offering documents, which
also include information regarding the
liquidity of such investments, which may
be limited.

Commodities. Commodity investments
may be less liquid and more volatile than
other investments. The risk of loss in
trading commodities can be substantial
due, but not limited to, volatile political,
market and economic conditions. An
investor's returns may change radically
at any time since commodities are
subject, by nature, to abrupt changes

in price. Commodity prices are volatile
ecause they respond to many
unpredictable factors including weather,
abor strikes, inflation, foreign exchange
rates, etc. In an individual account,
ecause your position is leveraged, a
small move against your position may
result in a large loss. Losses may be
arger than your initial deposit. Investors
should carefully consider the inherent
risk of such an investment in light of
heir experience, objectives, financial
resources and other circumstances. No
representation is made regarding the
suitability of commodity investments.

Currencies. Currency exchange rates
can be extremely volatile, particularly
during times of political or economic
uncertainty. There is a risk of loss when
an investor as exposure to foreign
currency or are in foreign currency
traded investments.

Emerging Markets and Growth Markets.
Investing in the securities of issuers in
emerging markets and growth markets
involves certain considerations,
including: political and economic
conditions, the potential difficulty

of repatriating funds or enforcing
contractual or other legal rights, and
the small size of the securities markets
in such countries coupled with a low
volume of trading, resulting in potential
lack of liquidity and in price volatility.

Equity investments. Equity investments
are subject to market risk, which means
that the value of the securities may go

up or down in respect to the prospects
of individual companies, particular
industry sectors and/or general
economic conditions. The securities of
small and mid-capitalization companies
involve greater risks than those
associated with larger, more established
companies and may be subject to more
abrupt or erratic price movements.

Fixed Income. Investments in fixed
income securities are subject to the
risks associated with debt securities
generally, including credit/default,
liquidity and interest rate risk. Any
guarantee on an investment grade bond
of a given country applies only if held

to maturity.

Non-US Securities. Investing in non-US
securities involves the risk of loss

as a result of more or less non-US
government regulation, less public
information, less liquidity and greater
volatility in the countries of domicile
of the issuers of the securities and/

or the jurisdiction in which these
securities are traded. In addition,
investors in securities such as ADRs/
GDRs, whose values are influenced by
foreign currencies, effectively assume
currency risk.

Tactical Tilts. Tactical tilts may involve
a high degree of risk. No assurance can
be made that profits will be achieved
or that substantial losses will not be
incurred. Prior to investing, investors
must determine whether a particular
tactical tiltis suitable for them.

Tax Information. Goldman Sachs does
not provide legal, tax or accounting
advice. You should obtain your own
independent tax advice based on your
particular circumstances.

Distributing Entities. This material
has been approved for issue in

the United Kingdom solely for the
purposes of Section 21 of the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2000 by
GSI, Peterborough Court, 133 Fleet
Street, London EC4A 2BB; by Goldman
Sachs Canada, in connection with its
distribution in Canada; in the United
States by Goldman, Sachs & Co.
lember FINRA/SIPC; in Hong Kong by
Goldman Sachs (Asia} L.L.C.; in Korea
by Goldman Sachs (Asia} L.L.C., Seoul
Branch; in Japan by Goldman Sachs
(Japan) Ltd; in Australia by Goldman
Sachs Australia Pty Limited (ACN 092
589 770}: and in Singapore by Goldman
Sachs (Singapore} Pte. (Company
umber: 198502165 W}.

raf
°

No Distribution; No Offer or
Solicitation. This material may not,
without Goldman Sachs’ prior written
consent, be (i} copied, photocopied or
duplicated in any form, by any means,
or (ii} distributed to any person that is
not an employee, officer, director, or
authorized agent of the recipient. This
material is not an offer or solicitation
with respect to the purchase or sale
of a security in any jurisdiction in
which such offer or solicitation is not
authorized or to any person to whom
it would be unlawful to make such

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014617
