208 Teaching Minds

How do we choose who studies the elite subjects? We don’t.

Offer choices. Stop making lists of what one must know and start
putting students into situations where they can learn from experi-
ence while attempting to accomplish goals that they set out for them-
selves, just as people did before there were schools. Education has
always been the same: learning from experience with help from wiser
mentors. School has screwed that all up and it is time to go back to
basics.

So the “what” question is simple. We should teach children what
adults know that enables them to function in the world they inhabit.
This has much less to do with academic knowledge than it has to do
with practical, and often subconscious, knowledge of how to do a va-
riety of things in the social and physical and economic world we have
created.

Now let’s address the question of how to teach these things.

John Dewey noted, in 1916, that he had been talking about learn-
ing by doing for a long time, but nobody ever listened to him about
it—-which was exactly his point. He was frustrated about changing the
system. In 1916! Imagine how he would feel today.

It is not unreasonable to ask why the system never changes, and
who is making sure that it won’t change. The answer is obvious. So
many people have vested interests in things staying as they are that
the system basically cannot change—at least not of its own free will.

The President of the United States could help make the changes
needed, but he won’t. Here is a piece from then-Senator Obama’s
education speech given during his campaign in Dayton, Ohio, in 2008:

We will help schools integrate technology into their curriculum
so we can make sure public school students are fluent in the
digital language of the 21st-century economy. We’ll teach our
students not only math and science, but teamwork and critical
thinking and communication skills, because that’s how we’ll
make sure they’re prepared for today’s workplace.

Some advisor of his had read my writings and was quoting me on that
one. I usually say reasoning and not critical thinking, but this is taken
from my many speeches on education. And what has the President
actually done? He said in that same speech:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023954
