Morgan Stanley | RESEARCH

Executive Summary

Will the Alts simplify their structure and convert to
C-corporations from partnerships? What would this
mean for valuations? We think the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act
could accelerate cost-benefit analyses and decision-
making by management teams as a 21% federal tax rate vs.
35% previously implies less tax leakage and less expense in
moving from single-layer taxation to a double taxation
structure. While investors would give up economics in the
process, the new business structure would, we think, com-
mand a higher valuation multiple.

For context, investor questions on the topic have picked up
recently, including from a number of long-only accounts, which
have historically avoided the Alts. Some investors have said they
currently cannot invest in Alts given the partnership structure but
would be interested and able to do work on them if they were to con-
vert to C-corps. We had conversations around conversion a year ago
as President Trump took office amid promises of tax reform, and the
subject came up on nearly every 4Q16 earnings call. Management
teams seemed to table the idea because of too many moving parts
that needed to be clarified before they conduct a proper cost/benefit
analysis. Post tax reform, conversion is at the top of investors@ninds

and becomes a key debate/catalyst for the sector.

We believe Ares Management L.P. (ARES, Equal-weight) could be
the first Alt to convert to a C-corp, potentially sparking other
conversions within our coverage. We believe this prospect has
likely driven much of the stock©24% return year-to-date and +16%
outperformance vs. the S&P 500 and +10% its Alts peers. Over the
past few months, ARES management has stated clearly that they
have been actively considered conversion. CFO Mike McFerran
recently told investors, This topic has become clearly very elevated
in light of possible tax reform. Absent that and even before this
became so topical, this is the thing we@e been thinking about. And
the overarching question is, can public traded partnerships attract
the breadth of shareholder base to support an appropriate valuation
notwithstanding some other obstacles. Even without tax reform,
the company was considering the structure change, and with a 21%
corporate statutory rate (vs. 35%), we believe cost-benefit analysis
may make sense for ARES. The company reports earnings on
Thursday, February 15, and we expect an update or additional
color on conversion. We think all Alts shares could benefit as
investors see a higher probability of others following in their
footsteps and/or investors re-rate AltsGRE higher.

NORTH AMERICA INSIGHT ~~

Against this backdrop, we@e created a conversion scorecard
with qualitative pros/cons for each company. To be clear, these are
our views on where conversion makes the most sense and not calls on
which companies will commit or the timing of potential conversions.
We focus selectively on the factors we view as most important in

deciding whether to convert.

e FRE %ofEarningsD We believe the higher fee related earn-
ings as a % of total earnings, the more likely for a re-rating of
the shares and therefore more likely to consider C-corp con-

version.

e Effective Tax Rate D The lower the current tax rate, the
more tax slippage if companies convert and are subject toa
higher corporate tax rate, and lower EPS. Conversely, compa-
nies with a higher tax rate today already have more tax
leakage, and thus could make sense to pay a little more tax in

a corporate structure for a broader investor base.

e Current P/ERatioD The lower the current P/E multiple, the
more management may be inclined to take action to drive a

re-rating.

© Management Commentary D Lastly we look at manage-
ment commentary from earnings calls/conferences to assess
the extent that companies are evaluating conversion and seri-

ously considering it as a strategic option.

Exhibit 2:
Based on our qualitative scorecard, our work suggests APO and ARES
may be most likely to convert

eee ae Core FRE % of JENIEffective Tax |Current P/E ratio | Management | Average Overall
pany 8 Earnings Rate (2018e) Commentary Score

ARES (ARES) Equal-weight © & of @ y |
Apollo (APO) Overweight a) »D D D ~dD
Oaktree (OAK) Overweight »D &B e »D Q
KKR (KKR) Equal-weight ¢ © a) a Q
Carlyle (CG) Overweight O a 2) 6 im )
Blackstone (BX) Overweight »D & D D mY

Source: Company Data, Morgan Stanley Research estimates

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025555
