The GPS shoes from GTX ( GTXO - news - people ) tackle another senior problem--folks

who have Alzheimer's who wander and are at risk of getting lost or injured. A GPS device in one
of the shoes will alert a caregiver if the wearer leaves a specified area. Don't expect the latest
styles from Nike ( NKE - news - people ) or Steve Madden ( shoo - news - people ) . The
manufacturer is Aetrex Worldwide, an orthodic and medical specialty shoe maker. Roll-out is

expected by year's end.
Read the full story
Keeping an eye on Mom and Dad

Remote monitoring technology aims to keep seniors in their houses and out of nursing homes

Over the coming months a raft of new-and-improved remote monitoring devices will hit the
market, from GPS shoes that can track the whereabouts of wandering seniors to MedCottages,
portable RV-like units equipped with motion and monitoring systems that allow seniors to
maintain some independence from the backyard of their adult childrens’ homes.

“As we age, this is going to be a growing trend,” says Laurie Orlov, a Florida-based expert on so-
called “aging-in-place technology” aimed at keeping seniors in their houses and out of nursing
homes as long as possible.

“We have to get past the fear and antagonism among the older people who need it the most. I don’t
think they’re that technology-ready, but the boomers, who are their adult children, certainly are.”
Motion sensors strategically placed in the three-bedroom home where Howe has lived for 53 years
feed information right to her daughter’s laptop, detailing when she got out of bed (the Friday we
chatted it was 9 a.m.), walked into the bathroom (9:15 a.m.) or hovered at the kitchen table where
she keeps her pills (9:30 a.m.)

Even her blood-pressure reading (165/76) is fed to her daughter’s computer, along with her daily
weigh-in tally, providing a detailed graph which she often takes to her doctor appointments.

The only thing GrandCare can’t tell Pierce, because her system doesn’t include cameras, is if her
mother actually swallowed her pills.

Monitoring and in-home help technologies will be a $20 billion U.S. business in North America by
2020, predicts Orlov, founder of Aging In Place Technology Watch.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018171
