92

(a department of the China International Publishing Group) saw its cooperative

agreements dwindle.

It was then that Chinese officials revived an old tactic that the Communist Party
had employed before the revolution—using friendly foreigners and pro-PRC Chinese
immigrants to publicize China’s story. Chinese officials called this tactic of localizing

the work of foreign propaganda, the “borrowed boat” strategy.”

One such friendly American was a China scholar*® who was for years associated

with Random House. According to Huang Youyi, the chief editor of the Foreign
Languages Press posted to the United States in the late 1980s and early 1990s, this
American argued that for China to improve its image in the United States, it needed to
work through American organizations, and so he collaborated with Huang on a book
series, “The Culture and Civilization of China,” which the Yale University Press began
publishing in 1997, The American’s “understanding of the US publishing industry and
his friendly attitude towards China became an indispensable condition for the success
of the cooperation,” Huang wrote.*! Books from the series are still given to foreign

guests of the Beijing government.

In a period of deep crisis for China’s reputation, Huang’s success in using foreigners

to publish material beneficial to China’s image became a model for other Chinese
operations. From the early 1990s, the Chinese Communist Party began to seek
opportunities to cooperate with Westerners, Western media and publishing companies,

and overseas Chinese to tell its story.

Lack of Reciprocity

It is important to compare Beijing’s efforts to “grab the right to speak” and obtain
“discourse power” overseas with the efforts, and ability, of Western media organizations
to access China’s market to a similar degree. For decades, those efforts have faced
roadblocks placed in their path by the Chinese government. A key roadblock has been
China’s ban on Western investment in media except when it involves such things as

fashion, cars, and lifestyle.

Private media

Unlike the United States, where Chinese reporters are only restricted from entering

high-security military installations, Western reporters in China are subject to a panoply

Media

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020551
