after a long and bitter internal debate, the president announced that he had decided to
withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement. For Bannon, it was a deeply satisfying slap
in the face of liberal rectitude—Elon Musk and Bob Iger immediately resigned from
Trump’s business council—and confirmation of Trump’s true Bannonite instincts.

It was, likewise, the move that Ivanka Trump had campaigned hardest against in the
White House.

“Score,” said Bannon. “The bitch 1s dead.”

OOK Ok

There are few modern political variables more disruptive than a dedicated prosecutor. It’s
the ultimate wild card.

A prosecutor means that the issue under investigation—or, invariably, cascading issues
—will be a constant media focus. Setting their own public stage, prosecutors are certain
leakers.

It means that everybody in a widening circle has to hire a lawyer. Even tangential
involvement can cost six figures; central involvement quickly rises into the millions.

By early summer, there was already an intense seller’s market in Washington for top
criminal legal talent. As the Mueller investigation got under way, White House staffers
made a panicky rush to get the best firm before someone else got there first and created a
conflict.

“Can’t talk about Russia, nothing, can’t go there,” said Katie Walsh, now three months
removed from the White House, on advice of her new counsel.

Any interviews or depositions given to investigators risked putting you in jeopardy.
What’s more, every day in the White House brought new dangers: any random meeting
you might find yourself in exposed you more.

Bannon kept insisting on the absolute importance of this point—and for him the
strategic importance. If you didn’t want to find yourself getting wrung out in front of
Congress, your career and your net worth in jeopardy, be careful who you spoke to. More
to the point: you must not under any circumstances speak to Jared and Ivanka, who were
now Russia toxic. It was Bannon’s widely advertised virtue and advantage: “I’ve never
been to Russia. I don’t know anybody from Russia. I’ve never spoken to any Russians.
And I'd just as well not speak to anyone who has.”

Bannon observed a hapless Pence in a lot of “wrong meetings,” and helped to bring in
the Republican operative Nick Ayers as Pence’s chief of staff, and to get “our fallback
guy” out of the White House and “running around the world and looking like a vice
president.”

And beyond the immediate fears and disruption, there was the virtually certain

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020064
