correspond if the observer were doing
the same thing. Another way to say this
is that there is a resonant response in an
observer’s motor system to observing a
behavior and this may potentiate a
degree of social coordination and
connection, as discussed in Semin’s
chapter. This kind of neural resonance
has been shown to play a role in
understanding speech when seeing a
talker’s mouth move, even if the listener
does not actually make any mouth
movements.

Mirror neurons demonstrate that
observed action can produce a resonant
response in an observer’s brain. Seeing
a talker’s mouth move creates a motor-
resonant response that aids in
understanding speech sounds. However,
these two observations are very different
from the idea that the meaning of
sentences can create a resonant response
in the listener’s brain. In the case of
speech, mouth movements are the
actions that create speech. This might
seem like a very special case. The
traditional linguistic view of language is
that words and sentences are symbolic:
Language describing action is not action
itself. Language describing emotion is
not the emotion itself. The entire
concept of a symbol is that a symbol
denotes something, stands for
something, but the symbol is not the
thing itself. But it now appears that this
long-held notion may be wrong.

The idea that seeing an object or
event gives rise to brain states that
resonate with previous experiences of
that thing suggests a mechanism for
language understanding to go beyond
symbolic interpretation. Given that there
is a brain mechanism for re-experiencing
actions or sensations, this same
mechanism may operate even when
there is just a symbolic linguistic

Page |70

description. Understanding language
may take place by invoking such
resonant past experiences in the brain.

For example, when listening to
sentences about hockey action, hockey
players show neural activity in their
motor system which is not seen for
people who are naive to hockey.’
Experience playing hockey recruits the
motor system in service of
understanding hockey sentences as if
one were watching or playing hockey
when only listening to speech. This
suggests one way in which language can
have a direct impact on a listener.
Rather than making inferences about
actions based on the meanings of
sentences, understanding a sentence may
be a resonant motor system response in
the listener to a description of an action.
If this idea is extended more broadly,
language impact may come from such
resonant responses. Language
understanding and the impact of
language may result from processes
more similar to the effects of hearing
laughter. Hearing a sentence may create
in a listener a set of resonant responses
very similar to the patterns that
correspond to the actual situations being
described.

Such resonant responses need not
be confined to the motor system and
actions. Emotions such as fear or joy
may be empathically evoked in listeners
by speech just as a scream or laughter
might. Verbal expression of attitudes
may produce similar attitudinal
responses in listeners. Moreover, if a
listener’s resonant response is strong,
there may be increased empathic overlap
with the speaker, which may serve to
increase social connection. To the
extent that people speak together and
share feelings, social connection may
increase as well.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021316
