4.2.12
WC: 191694

serialized gang murder. Peter Rosier was indicted on charges of first-degree murder and
conspiracy to murder. The prosecution’s theory was that the stepfather’s ultimate act was merely
the final stage in a family conspiracy of which Peter was the architect and participant.

Suddenly Peter Rosier found himself in jail, facing a possible death sentence in a state that has one
of the highest execution rates in the country. Right wing commentators, such as Patrick
Buchanan, compared what Peter did to what the Nazis had done under Hitler.’”’ Rosier called me
from prison on the day of his arrest and asked me to help him. I worked with his local lawyer to
get him out on bail and to formulate a trial strategy. In the event of his conviction, I was to be his
appellate lawyer.

First we had to establish through scientific evidence that suffocation, rather than morphine, was
the immediate cause of death, since Rosier did not suffocate Patricia. (Cancer was, of course, the
“but for” cause of death.) Second, we had to make the jurors wonder what they would have done
under such excruciating circumstances and to conclude that the criminal law should not sit in
judgment over loving family members who had to make a tragic choice between keeping a
promise to a comatose loved one or abandoning her in a moment of crisis.

Peter’s trial lawyer, Stanley Rosenblatt of Miami, did an excellent job persuading the jury that the
murder statutes were put on the books not for loving husbands like Peter Rosier but for brutal
killers like Charles Manson and Ted Bundy. He tried the case with emotion and empathy, inviting
the jurors to put themselves in the unenviable situation Peter faced on that terrible night. The
prosecutor, on the defensive for having given Patricia’s stepfather immunity before he knew the
facts, played the avenging angel. He demanded that the jurors simply apply the law to the facts
and not distinguish among murders on the basis of motive.

The jury understood—even if the prosecutors and Pat Buchanan did not—the differences between
love and hate, between a self-willed voluntary death and a death involuntarily imposed by others.
After weeks of trial, it took the jury only a few hours to acquit Peter Rosier of all criminal
liability. The prosecution had lost all credibility by asking the jury to treat Dr. Rosier as if he were
the functional equivalent of a gangland killer. Had the prosecution charged Dr. Rosier with
assisting the suicide of another—which is a crime under Florida law—it might have had a better
shot at a conviction. But by overcharging him with first-degree murder, it made it difficult for the
jury to take its case as anything but a vendetta.

One important role the jury plays in our system of justice is to serve as the moral conscience of
the community and as the common sense moderator of harsh general statutes. This Florida jury,
which included several older people who themselves had living wills, decided that what Peter
Rosier did, was not murder, even if the strict letter of the law did not authorize him to help his
wife choose the time and manner of her imminent death.

” A strange analogy for Buchanan who has expressed admiration for Hitler and doubt that the Nazis gassed Jews
during the Holocaust.

194

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017281
