10 MICHAEL WOLFF

Hicks had been elevated to White House communications director, with
Raffel as her number two.

The trouble had arisen the previous summer. Both Hicks and Raffel
had been on Air Force One in July 2017 as the news broke about Donald
Trump Jr-s meeting in Trump Tower during the campaign with Russian
government go-betweens offering dirt on Hillary Clinton. During the
flight back to the United States after the G20 summit in Germany, Hicks
and Raffel aided the president in his efforts to issue a largely false story
about the Trump Tower meeting, thus becoming part of the cover-up.

Even though Raffel had been at the White House for a little more than
nine months, the Axios report said that his departure had been under dis-
cussion for several months. That was untrue. It was an abrupt exit.

The next day, just as abruptly, Hope Hicks—the person in the White
House closest to the president—resigned as well.

The one person who perhaps knew more than anyone else about the
workings of the Trump campaign and the Trump White House was sud-
denly out the door. The profound concern inside the White House was
the reasonable supposition that Hicks and Raffel, both witnesses to and
participants in the president's efforts to cover up the details of his son and
son-in-law’s meeting with the Russians, were subjects or targets of the
Mueller investigation—or, worse, had already cut a deal.

The president, effusive in his public praise for Hicks, did not try to
talk her out of leaving. In the weeks to come he would mope about her
absence—“Where’s my Hope-y?”—but, in fact, as soon as he got wind
that she might be talking, he wanted to cut her loose and began, in a
significant rewrite, downgrading her status and importance on the cam-
paign and in the White House.

Yet here, from Trump's point of view, was a hopeful point about Hicks:
as central as she was to his presidency, her duties really only consisted of
pleasing him. She was an unlikely agent of grand strategy and great con-
spiracies. Trumps team was made up of only bit players.

e+

John Dowd may have been reluctant to give his client bad news, but
he well understood the danger of a thorough prosecutor with virtually

SIEGE

unlimited resources. The more a determined team of G-men sifts, strit
and inspects, the greater the chance that both methodical and cast
crimes will be revealed. The more comprehensive the search, the mc
inevitable the outcome. The case of Donald Trump—with his history
bankruptcies, financial legerdemain, dubious associations, and genei
sense of impunity—certainly seemed to offer prosecutors something
an embarrassment of riches.

For his part, however, Donald Trump yet seemed to believe that |
skills and instincts were at least a match for all the thoroughness a
resources of the United States Department of Justice. He even believ
their exhaustive approach would work in his favor. “Boring. Confusi
for everybody,’ he said, dismissing the reports of the investigation pr
vided by Dowd and others. “You can't follow any of this. No hook?

One of the many odd aspects of Trump's presidency was that
did not see being president, either the responsibilities or the exposu
as being all that different from his pre-presidential life. He had endur
almost countless investigations in his long career. He had been involv
in various kinds of litigation for the better part of forty-five years. He w
a fighter who, with brazenness and aggression, got out of fixes that wot
have ruined a weaker, less wily player. That was his essential busin:
strategy: what doesn’t kill me strengthens me. Though he was wound
again and again, he never bled out.

“It's playing the game,” he explained in one of his frequent mor
logues about his own superiority and everyone else's stupidity. “I’m go
at the game. Maybe I’m the best. Really, I could be the best. I think I<
the best. I’m very good. Very cool. Most people are afraid that the wo
might happen. But it doesn’t, unless you're stupid. And I’m not stupid?

In the weeks after his first anniversary in office, with the Muel
investigation in its eighth month, Trump continued to regard the s}
cial counsel's inquiry as a contest of wills. He did not see it as a war
attrition—a gradual reduction of the strength and credibility of the t
get through sustained scrutiny and increasing pressure. Instead, he sav
situation to confront, a spurious government undertaking that was v
nerable to his attacks. He was confident he could jawbone this “wit
hunt”—often tweeted in all-caps—to at least a partisan draw.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021129
