epilepsy. Some say it is relevant to the likes of Apostle Paul, Sister Teresa and
Joan of Arc.

One evening in the human neurophysiology laboratory, | was invited by Dr.
Heath to join him and several other brain scientists behind a two-way mirror to
watch an interview with Donna while electrical current was being put through her
recording electrodes. We watched and listened as a psychiatrist interviewed her
about her past. The patient was speaking about her childhood. Unseen by the
patient, the neurophysiologist, with us behind the mirror, was intermittently pushing
the button evoking brain stimulation with very low current applied to the septum. Dr.
Heath told me to listen for subtle changes or discontinuities in the flow of the on-
going conversation that he said might reflect alterations in her thoughts and
feelings. .

“The first time we were allowed to take a break from Sunday school for the
church service and | got to hear the choir and the pipe organ, | suddenly got a
feeling of happiness that | hoped would last forever. My Sunday school teacher told
us how much Jesus loved us and that’s what the music made me feel like. For the
first time in my life | felt completely safe.” Though the two way mirror | saw the
psychiatrist nod silently. “When | learned about the real meaning of Christmas and
Easter, it was frightening and beautiful.”

Within a few seconds after the neurophysiologist, behind the mirror and
unseen by the patient or her interviewing physician, pushed the switch on the
stimulus generator, the patient stopped talking. After a little more silence, her
interviewer encouraged her to continue,

“You were talking about how beautiful the holidays were. Tell me in what
ways?”

“| don’t want to talk about that anymore.” She blushed and looked very
uncomfortable. The neurophysiologist's hand remained on the switch. She
continued to speak with her psychiatrist.

“| have to ask you a favor and | don’t know why. | hope you don’t get upset.
The thought won't leave me alone.” She seemed embarrassed even as her body

relaxed against the back of the chair languorously.

19

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013519
