24 The Virgin Islands Daily News

The Virgin Islands Daily News

@

Rounded) Aug. 1, 1930, by J. Antonio Jarvis and Arrel Melchior Sr.
Published by Daily News Publishing Co.

EDITORIAL BOARD

Jason Robbins, Publisher
Kevin Oowney, Advertising Director
Onneka Challenger, Circulation Director

~EDITORIAL OBSERVER-
An invigorated second term

From The New York Times:

Early Wednesday moming, as sleep-deprived supporters rallied for a final
cheer, President Barack Obama concluded his re-election campaign with a
promising glimpse at what the fight was all about: a second-term agenda that
can make real progress on issues neglected in the first.

Without question, the president intends to build on and improve the stgnifi-
cant accomplishments of the last four years, particularly the full implementa-
tion of health care reform and the use of government policy to keep the econ-
omy growing. But the president went beyond that in his victory speech and
added some less familiar words to his policy vocabulary.

Children should live in a world that is not burdened by debt or weakened by
inequality, he said, but also one “‘that isn’t threatened by the destructive power ofa
warming planet.” That suggests he knows he has an opportunity to address cli-
mate change with more vigor, going beyond auto-mileage standards and renew-
able-energy jobs to possibly advocating tougher carbon emissions standards,

The presidentalso said he was looking forward to working with Republicans
to fix the immigration system, giving him a chance to do more than promote
the DREAM Act for young immigrants. He could lead the way to comprehen-
sive reform that combines strong enforcement with a path to citizenship for
immigrants already here. He also hinted that combating poverty might move
higher on his priority list.

And he spoke of tax reform, an issue that will immediately begin to grow
louder with the expiration of the Bush-era tax cuts at year’s end. Obama won
re-election on an unambiguous promise not to renew those cuts for incomes of
$250,000 or more, and his supporters expect him to stick to that vow. In com-
ing months, after he persuades Congress to keep taxes fromrising on the mid-
dle class, he should push to restore a fair estate tax and raise the low capital
gains rate to the level of ordinary income.

He even mentioned the need to fix a balloting system that left thousands of
people standing in long lines to vote this week, a tantalizing hint that electoral
reform might become a priority.

All these agenda items require the same ingredient: ending his standoffish
attitude toward Congress and working closely with any leader or lawmaker
willing to make real progress. That may be easier now that Senate Democrats
(and their independent allies) have expanded their majority by two seats to 55,
many of them filled with newcomers more liberal and feisty than their prede-
cessors, most notably Elizabéth Warren of Massachusetts.

The new Democratic caucus’ first order of business should be a reform of
the filibuster that prevents its routine abuse by Republicans, and the majority
leader, Harry Reid, suggested Wednesday that he supported some modest
changes. The newcomers, along with the nme House, should forcefully
advocate that he go as far as possible:

Anewly energized Obama administration an Senate could have the effect of
isolating the supply-side dead-enders in the House. John Boehner, the House
speaker, announced Wednesday that nothing had changed; he and his caucus
still oppose higher tax rates for the rich and still want to pursue Romney’s
defeated goal of raising revenue by lowering rates and cutting unspecified loop-
holes. Standing up to Republican recalcitrance on this and many other issues
will require bringing to bear political pressure from the coalition that gave
Obama a commanding victory in the Electoral College on Tuesday.

The president’s victory was decisive, and many who didn’t support him
nonetheless told pollsters that they agreed with his positions on taxes, health
care and immigration. He now needs to use the power that voters have given
to him to enhance and broaden his agenda.

See Your Views In Print

We require thatyou include your full name, island of residence and telephone
number so our staff can contact you. We will not printthe phone numbers,
but we will call you to verify that the letter or column came from you and to

discuss any significant editing that might be necessary.
Send Letters, Essays, Halos and Pitchforks, Cartoons
or other original material to:

letters@dailynews.vi.

J. Lowe Davis, Executive Editor

Ken E. Ryan, Production Director

Maurice Jadson, Billing & Collections Manager

OPINIONS

Friday, November 9, 2012

U.S. politics changes for the better

America has changed.

There are periods when we grow as
a society m degrees. Then there are
times when we take great leaps for-
ward. If you examine the history of
our country back to the days of the
first Spanish, English and French
immigrants, you will see certain
moments when our national dynamic
shifted.

This week, we saw a moment when
the America that has been growing and
changing by degrees met with a
moment when Anterica made a hard
tum on its path.

For years we have seen the brown-
ing of America. For years we have seen
the tolerance and acceptance level of
different religions, economic condi-
tions, sexual orientations, political
beliefs and ancestries grow in mea-
sured steps through the increase in one-
onl-one interactions and social media.

For years we have seenthe steady
progress of women, and felt a subtle
shift in the rhythm of America.

This week, we saw several of these
trends converge in a moment when it
became evident that once again,
America has changed.

The demographics of the exit polls
tell an interesting story. President
Obantia’s support came overwhelming-
ly from groups of people who are often
described as disenfranchised:

* Those who make less than $50,000

year,

« Those with some or no college
education;

¢ Women;

* Young people;

* People of color.

These groups, who in the past have
felt like their votes were taken for
granted, for the first time in a long time,
saw their votes carry weight that makes
them get noticed.

People more “wonky” than me will

FOUR MORE YEARS...

Mariel Blake

be going over these numbers for
months to come. These numbers tell
me, though, that the reason why so
many people were surprised about the
outcome in this race ignored the num-
bers that had nothing to do with polls.
They want to say that it is because
these communities were voting to keep
their entitlements and “handouts,” but
that is just a denial of the real truth
What people want is to no longer
feel disenfranchised and marginalized
What people want is for their voices
to be included, not shouted down.
Recent data shows that women now
outnumber men by a slim margin.
More people live in cities. People of
color now make up almost a third of
the population. The average age is 37.
Almost two thirds of us own homes,
but there are more of us who have
either never been married or are
divorced than there are those of us who

- are married.

The fastest shrinking demographic
is white men.

So many of the people who fit the
demographics that elected President
Obama are those in demographics that
are seeing their numbers grow and also
are becoming more politically active
and savvy. They are truly looking to
connect with candidates who have their
concems in mind. These are not one-
issue voters.

They care about the economy but
they also care about their place in our
society. They want their social issues to
be a part of the discussion. Our nation-
al identity is more about mclusion than
assimilation. This is a vast switch from
where we have been.

Those ofus in groups that have been
considered on the fringe or in the
minority have found solidarity in our

RGB onie Pittspugen (ysT-GAZETTE

experiences in this country and are
increasingly deciding we are no longer
satisfied with trying to fit in and would
rather have a seat at the table as our
unique selves.

Women, the LGBT community and
Latinos made great strides with this
election. AfricanAmericans and young
people reminded the political parties of
the value of their support.

There is a lotof finger pointing from
the Republican tallang heads as to why
their candidate lost. It seems they are
slowly coming to realize it was not
only whom they ran as candidates but
also where those candidates stood on
issues that are important to this grow-
ing voting power block.

I was struck by how few people of
color were in the crowds for Mitt
Romney toward the end of the cam-
paign. It was like they no longer cared
about even the illusion of inclusion,
and instead decided to bank their future
on their main demographic. What their
campaign failed to take into consider-
ation is that the issues that matter most
to people right now stretch across racial
and gender lines.

Those of us usually considered on
the fringe are multifaceted and have
learned a very powerful lesson after
this election. When we band together
to get our issues on the agenda, we
force the conversation to change.

Hopefully, both parties have learned
that you don’t have to pander to us, but
you do have to listen to us because we
are not going away.

America has changed, and if history
is any indication that is a very good

B-

Let’s just hope we embrace the
change in the spint of cooperation and
not segregation.

~— Contact Daily News contribut-
ing columnist Mariel Blake at

mar ielfblake@gmail.com.

...OF THIS!

WHERE’S
HIS BIRTH
CERTIFICATE?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018869
