238 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

idea for the software, I came up with the idea for the interface, I decided
where to place the boxes, and I chose all the colors, fonts and graphics. I
did all the creative bits!

So, now we know what programmers do all day. They create!

Origins of Software

Alan Turing first described the modern day computer in a paper presented
to the London Mathematical Society in 1936. He was not trying to invent
the computer. That was a by-product. He was trying to solve a puzzle that
had been troubling mathematicians for 30 years: The Decision Problem.

David Hilbert set out the challenge during a public lecture to the
French Academy of Science in 1901, marking the turn of the century.
Rather than give a boring lecture extolling the virtues of scientists, he
decided to give his audience a list of all the puzzles mathematicians were
stumped on.

Rather like the XPRIZE of today, he presented the problems as
a series of challenges. Sadly for the mathematicians of his time, there
were no million dollar prizes on offer, just a moment of fame and the
adulation of their colleagues. Each challenge was given a number. The
list included many famous puzzles; the Riemann Hypothesis, the puzzle
of Diophantine Equations and the Navier Stokes Hypothesis, to name
only three. A group of these questions were to coalesce into what we now
know as the Decision Problem.

The Decision Problem is very important to computer science
because it asks whether an algorithm can be written to automatically
discover other algorithms. Since all software is itself algorithmic you
could rephrase the question: Can software write software? This might
seem esoteric. But, if you are a computer scientist, it is an important
question. If we could solve all mathematical problems automatically
we would not need mathematicians anymore. And, since programs are
applied mathematics, the same goes for computer programmers.

Before you breathe a sigh of relief because you are neither a
mathematician nor a computer scientist, you should remember it is
possible to describe all knowledge using numbers. That's what your
iPhone does when it stores music. If everything can be represented by
numbers, then a fast-enough computer could use an algorithm to create
everything! You really could set Douglas Adams’ Ultimate Question of
Life the Universe and Everything before a computer and it would come
up with the answer — presumably extrapolating the existence of rice
pudding and income tax along the way.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015928
