NAUTILUS EDUCATION

BETA PRODUCT

“I mdefinitely a fighter, andwilltry and

Bd

walk for as long as Ican.’

researchers and funds devoted to them. With quiet
stoicism, the Topics have accepted that modern medi-
cine may not have a solution for their daughters’ dis-
ease. Still, says Marijana, “Without hope, there’s no
life.”

Following a current grassroots trend in medicine,
many individuals with orphan diseases do not wait for
the medical industry to care about them. Facing long
odds, they are forced to raise money to find a potential
cure themselves. But the Topics live by modest means.
Maryana runs a daycare center and her husband and
the childrens’ father, Niko, works for a lumber com-
pany. They are in no position to mount a quest.

But then there’s Michele Wrubel, 49, a stay-at-home
parent from Connecticut who has calpainopathy. For
years, Wrubel has been a passionate crusader for a
cure. Affluent and well connected, she doesn’t varnish
the truth about what it has taken to make the medical
industry pay attention to her. “To make a difference in
this disease, you need money and meetings,” she says.
“Researchers are not going to study a disease unless
there’s money behind it to fund the research.” For the
Topics, Wrubel may be their best hope.

THE GLOBAL GENES PROJECT, an advocacy group,
estimates 350 million people suffer from orphan dis-
eases worldwide. Most rare diseases are genetic and
tend to appear early in life. About 30 percent of chil-
dren who have them die before reaching their fifth
birthday. The rest battle their conditions throughout
life, as most orphan diseases have no cure. Out of the
7,000 orphan diseases identified to date, with about
250 new ones added annually, less than 400 can be
treated therapeutically.

This year the European Commission gave 144
million euros to develop 200 new therapies and the

32

National Institute of Health allocated $3.5 billion to
research orphan diseases. Yet some diseases are so rare
that they remain stepchildren even among orphans.
As a result, they receive little research attention and
funding. Neither do they fit the list of billable msur-
ance procedures. There’s no standard healthcare path
to diagnosis, let alone treatment. Similar to the Topics,
many patients go through an ordeal, which Maryana
describes as “a blur,” only to find out that medicine
can’t help them.

Orphan disease organizations, such as the National
Organization for Rare Disorders and the Rare Disease
Foundation, encourage patients to take matters into
their own hands. “Families have to advocate,” says Isa-
bel Jordan, chair of the Rare Disease Foundation. She
encourages patients to form organizations, find new
methods of funding, and push for research.

“Push for research” could be Michele Wrubel’s call-
ing card. She was diagnosed with muscular dystrophy
in her mid-20s. But even though calpainopathy was
identified nearly 20 years ago—about the same time
Wrubel got her initial diagnosis—it took almost the
entire second half of her life to determine that she
was afflicted with calpainopathy. There were no clinical
procedures that would lead to a diagnosis.

“Tt took a really long time and a very concerted
effort,” says Wrubel, who walks with canes, submitting
to a wheelchair for long trips or when in crowded places.
“Tf you don’t know what you’re looking for, they don’t
know whatto tell you or how to help you,” she says.

In 2008, gene sequencing came of age, which aided
physicians in diagnosing muscular dystrophy subtypes.
That year, Wrubel’s husband, Lee, who holds a medical
degree and a master’s in public health from Tufts, an
MBA from Columbia University, and 1s a venture cap1-
talist in the medical field, tracked down a neurologist

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015492
