takes with it - if we don’t handle this properly - something even more precious: The
division between periods of peace and of war.

That the knotting together of distance, speed and power changes the nature of an
object was something Janelle, the father of “Space Time Compression,” anticipated.
He labeled it “Locational Utility’, the way in which something becomes more useful
or powerful or relevant as it is drawn closer to us by increased connection and
speed, even if it stays the same “distance” away’. A nuclear weapon three hours
from landing and one that is three months away are, nearly, a different object
entirely. Adam Smiths’s famous remark in his Theory of Moral Sentiments that most
people would be more perturbed by the loss of half a finger than the news that a
million Chinese had perished, begins to take on a different color in an age when a
billion and a half Chinese are nanoseconds away.2°? When we say that connection
changes the nature of an object, we mean this; Networks change the “locational
utility” of anything they touch. When connection makes an object instantly, clearly
visible, it revolutionizes its potential. Little wonder so many great fortunes are being
made in applying this trick of plugging goods into compression engines like apps or
matching services. It’s hard to know if firms like Airbnb or Uber will be around ina
decade, but the economic energy they release emerges right out of Janelle’s theories:
Connect a car seat or an empty room and you change its nature. You give it value.
Part of our unease now - and part of the problem we have in strategizing about the
world or our businesses - is that stability on our topological maps is some time off
yet. There is so much yet to be connected. So many new topologies to be built.

“Time is a ride,” Danny Hillis once remarked in an early meditation about his rock-
sunk clock, “and you are on it.”2°4 He was right. That ride takes place, in a connected
age, on topological rails. And just how “instant” you are will be a mark of what sort
of ride you're on. In the same way that rivers and oceans and mountains define
different landscapes in real geographies, topological neighborhoods too will each
bounce with funny quirks. Some will be super fast. Others yoked by politics. Citizens
of Santa Fe or Mumbai may choose to compress time in different ways. But they will
all share a common desire. To do more with less. The German philosopher Peter
Sloterdjik, writing about the way in which some people breeze through airports and
borders (with first class tickets and pre-approved immigration) while others
struggle to move at all out of refugee camps or poverty traps, has labeled the
winners of this new order as a kind of “kinetic elite”2°5. They are a kind of temporal
elite, in possession of golden keys to a special, frictionless topology. The technology
to eliminate space and capture time.

202 He labeled it: Donald G. Janelle, “Spatial Reorganization: A Model and Concept”,
Annals of the Association of American Geographers (Volume 59, Issue 2, 1969)

203 Adam Smith’s: famous remark: Adam Smith and Knud Haakonssen. The Theory
of Moral Sentiments (Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press, 2002) 198

204 “Time is a ride” Stewart Brand, The Clock of the Long Now: Time and
Responsibility. (New York: Basic Books, 1999), 67

205 The German philosopher: Sloterdjik, TK

140

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018372
