Morgan Stanley | RESEARCH

Alternative Asset Managers

NORTH AMERICA INSIGHT | ¥

Can Alts Unlock Value with
C-Corp Conversions ?

e think APO could unlock the most value by converting to a C-corp

with 26% in our upside case vs. -14% in our downside case. ARES

could be the first to convert, but this is largely priced in. These

Brokers & Asset Managers

firms have more sticky management fee-related earnings @ North america industry View

vs. BX/CG/KKR that may see less benefit.

We believe ARES could be the first Alt stock to convert; we
would view that as a positive catalyst for the group that, if suc-
cessful, could lead others to follow. ARES reports 4Q earnings on
February 15, and we expect a potential announcement or indications
of mgmt@ intentions and/or timing. C-corp conversion has domi-
nated our conversations with investors of late with increased
inbound questions including interest from some new to the Alts. As
a result, in this report we expand on prior work here, and here, cre-
ating a C-corp conversion scorecard with qualitative pros/cons for
each company. We also evaluate the potential valuation impact if
Alts convert, and we take a deep dive into how the market might
value two earnings components ina C-corp structure: )) sticky, recur-

ring management fee-related earnings and 2) performance fees.

We see an opportunity for Alts to unlock value by shedding the
partnership structure and converting to C-corps. Changing from
a partnership structure could help alleviate the complexities of cur-
rent K-1 tax reporting and expand the universe of eligible investors in
the Alts. Some investors today are restricted from investing in lim-
ited partnerships, while others don®want the operational and tax

complexities of investing in a partnership structure.

Management fee-related earnings could re-rate higher toward
22.5xin our upside case, as we look at three different approaches
for valuing this sticky earnings stream: 1) traditional asset man-
ager comps vs. organic growth, 2) publicly traded C-corp Alts comps,
and 3) an approach looking at FRE as bond yield proxy with a credit

spread, to determinate an appropriate cap rate.

In-Line

Performance fees appear cheap (at 6.1x) if management fees
re-rate to 22.5x in the context of Alts converting to C-corps anda
24% overall tax rate. This suggests the market is misvaluing perform-
ance fees, and we could also see Alts performance fee earnings

re-rate higher if C-corp conversion expanded the investor base.

We see companies that have a greater skew to management fees
as best positioned for conversion, as we see the greatest potential
for multiple expansion on for this portion of the earnings. For stocks
under coverage, we see APO as potentially being able to unlock
the most value, with near-term upside to current prices of 26%,
if the shares re-rate. We see ARES as another winner from conver-
sion but the we belive this is priced with shares up 23.5% YTD. Our
analysis suggests a less favorable upside/downside scenario for con-
version for companies under coverage with lower taxes and/or

greater exposure to performance fees (KKR, CG, BX).

Exhibit 1:
Upside/Downside Scenario Impact to Alts' Share Price if They Convert

to C-Corps from Current Partnership Structure
Estimated Change to Curent Share Price
30%
20%

10% 11% 9,

-10% -14% -15%

26% Downside ™ Upside

-18%
5 -21%  ~20%
-20% 27%
-30%
-40%
APO OAK KKR- BX ARES CG Avg.

Source: Company Data, Morgan Stanley Research estimates

Morgan Stanley does and seeks to do business with companies covered in Morgan Stanley Research. As a result, investors should be aware that the firm may have a conflict of
interest that could affect the objectivity of Morgan Stanley Research. Investors should consider Morgan Stanley Research as only a single factor in making their investment decision.
For analyst certification and other important disclosures, refer to th®isclosure Section, located at the end of this report.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025554
