Theory 3: The Holy Grail proposition was that Trump and the Russians—perhaps even
Putin himself—had gotten together to hack the Democratic National Committee.

Theory 4: But then there was the those-that-know-him-best theory, some version of
which most Trumpers would come to embrace. He was just star-fucking. He took his
beauty pageant to Russia because he thought Putin was going to be his friend. But Putin
couldn’t have cared less, and in the end Trump found himself at the promised gala dinner
seated on one side next to a guy who looked like he had never used a utensil and on the
other side Jabba the Hutt in a golf shirt. In other words, Trump—however foolish his
sucking-up might have been, and however suspicious it might look in hindsight—just
wanted a little respect.

Theory 5: The Russians, holding damaging information about Trump, were
blackmailing him. He was a Manchurian Candidate.

OOK Ok

On January 6, 2017—nearly six months to the day after Foer’s piece was published—the
CIA, FBI, and NSA announced their joint conclusion that “Vladimir Putin ordered an
influence campaign in 2016 aimed at the U.S. presidential election.” From the Steele
dossier, to the steady leaks from the U.S. intelligence community, to testimony and
statements from the leadership of U.S. intelligence agencies, a firm consensus had
emerged. There was a nefarious connection, perhaps an ongoing one, between Trump and
his campaign and the Russian government.

Still, this could yet be seen as highly wishful thinking by Trump opponents. “The
underlying premise of the case is that spies tell the truth,” said the veteran intelligence
community journalist Edward Jay Epstein. “Who knew?” And, indeed, the worry in the
White House was not about collusion—which seemed implausible if not farcical—but
what, if the unraveling began, would likely lead to the messy Trump (and Kushner)
business dealings. On this subject every member of the senior staff shrugged helplessly,
covering eyes, ears, and mouth.

This was the peculiar and haunting consensus—not that Trump was guilty of all that he
was accused of, but that he was guilty of so much else. It was all too possible that the
hardly plausible would lead to the totally credible.

7 OK Ok

On February 13, twenty-four days into the new administration, National Security Advisor
Michael Flynn became the first actual link between Russia and the White House.

Flynn had really only one supporter in the Trump administration, and that was the
president himself. They were best friends during the campaign—buddy movie stuff. Post-
inauguration, this translated into a total-access relationship. On Flynn’s part, it led to a set
of misapprehensions that was common inside Trump’s circle: that the president’s personal

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019961
