11

on how the United States should deal with the problem. Although most members of
Congress accepted the Ford administration’s cautious approach to China as wise, many were
circumspect about the merits of China’s political, economic, social, and value systems, then
experiencing the last turmoil of the Cultural Revolution and the decline and death of Mao
Zedong in 1976,

These congressional visits to China seemed to help the Chinese government improve its
standing with Congress and favorably influence American public opinion. The resulting
reports show how granting these delegations access to China’s leaders and elements of
Chinese society that Beijing wished to highlight proved an effective strategy of calming
tensions. And the costs for Beijing were limited to modest in-country expenses, since
the members usually traveled as official congressional delegations on US government
aircraft.

One notable feature of this historical episode was the remarkable role played by Senate
Majority Leader Mike Mansfield (D-MT). Senator Mansfield was widely consulted in
Washington as an Asian affairs expert, meaning his observations arguably had more
influence than those of other members. He visited China three times during this period,
publishing separate reports with detailed assessments of various issues of concern to
Americans at the time. In the main, his reports conveyed information and opinions that
conformed with Chinese interests. Unlike many other members favoring a more cautious
pace of normalization with China and sustained ties with Taiwan, Senator Mansfield urged
the United States to promptly end ties with Taiwan and accept Beijing’s conditions for
normal diplomatic relations, warning that to do otherwise would lead to dangerous friction
in Sino-American relations and instability in Asia. Senator Mansfield portrayed China as a
power with fundamentally peaceful motives in international affairs and placed much of the
blame on the United States for past Sino-American conflicts in Asia. He also contradicted
those members who worried that China’s leadership change could lead to internal struggles
affecting China’s international and domestic policies. He insisted that such skepticism was
unwarranted, because what he called the Maoist system had been effectively inculcated
among the Chinese people. Some members complained that the limited itinerary for
congressional visits that was furnished by Chinese hosts did not provide a basis for any
meaningful assessment of conditions there. Despite the fact that many congressional
visitors questioned how durable China’s Maoist regime was and how lasting China’s
cooperation with the United States would actually prove to be, Mansfield countered that

he had had enough opportunity during his three visits to the PRC to move about and
obtain enough information through on-the-spot observation and talks with PRC leaders

to conclude that it was no passing phenomenon. So, while many members thought the
PRC’s system of indoctrination and control to be repressive politically, economically, and
socially—an affront to the human rights and dignity of its people—voices like Mansfield’s
served to mute the criticism, maintaining that the country’s political, economic, and social
system was uniquely well suited to the Chinese people.

Section 1

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020470
