Basic Policy Plan of Hosting the Convention

NOBEL CHARITABLE TRUST

Points to Keep In Mind in Hosting the Convention ( Direction of Hosting the Convention)

1 .Host Country

#ln the future we will construct a framework where different countries will
rotate to host and support the Convention.

=To establish an implementation model as well as build recognition and
success, the first 3 to 4 Conventions will be held in Japan.

#One of the most well-known environmental instrument is the Kyoto
Protocol adopted in Japan. Despite the many environmental conferences
taking place around the world, no event has ever included an exhibition
of environmental technologies. Therefore, it is a natural course of
events, that this Convention should begin in Japan, which would carry a
significant message . Global consensus on this matter should be easy
to attain.

™Venue candidates include Kyoto from the Kyoto Protocol, and
Okinawa and Hokkaido from the past G8 summits but considering
factors such as transportation, operation and promotion, we would
like to recommend the Tokyo Big Sight (Tokyo International
Exhibition Center.)

3 .Timing of the Conference

#As the formation of NCT and preparations to organize the
support system in Japan will begin in spring 2010, timing of the 1*
Convention will be in the year 2012.

=™Seasonal factors in Japan indicate the best timing for the
conference to be in spring (April-May) or fall (Sept- Oct).

4 .Exhibitors (Corporations)

mWith the cooperation of governments around the world, NCT will
encourage corporations worldwide to participate in the exhibition.

=Participation of Japanese corporations will be managed through the
future energies organization (GSSI Earth Environment Technology
Development Expo Executive Committee)

( Anticipated number of participating corporations: from 500 to 1000 )

5 . Advantages in Participating in the Exhibition

=By participating, corporations will have the opportunity to introduce and promote
their energy efficient products, obtain information on renewable, alternative and
sustainable energy resources, and may obtain rights to or participate in projects.
=By positioning participation itself as a status symbol, higher awareness will be
seen in corporate efforts to engage in environmental friendly endeavors.
=lmproved brand image of participating corporations and an opportunity to
accumulate consumer response data

6 .Operations

#Hosted by: Nobel Charitable Trust

= The GSSI Earth Environment Technology Development Expo
Executive Committee will manage all production and operations of
this convention.

7. \|mplementation Costs

=Funds will be provided by NCT, sponsors, and exhibition fees

will be collected from each participating exhibitor.

3

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031362
