Gruat_ Smith066474*eMailContent htm

The newspapers and Browardbeat.com make clear that the Federal investigations that led to the arrests
of County Commissioner Josephus Eggleston, former Miramar Commissioner Fitzroy Salesman and
School Board member Bev Gallagher are just beginning. ©

The FBI will be interviewing everyone from County Administrator Bertha Henry to bus drivers about
anything and everything.

They are looking for scalps.

I suspect that if the average person thought about it, he would assume that when the FBI comes calling,
_ Tike Joe Friday from DRAGNET, they want the facts and nothing but the facts. Equally important
they want an accurate record of that interview so they bring a court reporter or at the very leastatape
recorder.

The average person would be wrong,

Agents bring a pencil and pad to take notes. They then prepare a summary of the interview called a
m3Q2 Report. :

_ If you are called as a witness at trial, prior to testifying, you will be given a copy of Your 302 to
review. It is a record of what the FBI insists you said at your previous meeting.

If your interview lasted more than thirty seconds, it is guaranteed you will find numerous discrepancies.
Some of them will be insigalioaat, some of them could be material.

“Ask two people to listen to you in a discussion about a traffic accident and then write a summary. Iti isa
guaranteed they will have differences with each other as well as with you, the witness.

tHtt

You said, I am reasonably sure that the traffic light was green

One report takes out the equivocation and quotes you as saying: The light w was green.

This brings us to Federal law 18 USC 1001. That statute makes it a felony to lie to the poveruaicat. And
guess who decides whether or not you were lying? The government. —

So here is your conundrum. Do you testify about your doubts about the light, which is the truth, or do
you adopt the 302 version to avoid the wrath of the FBI?

Whether or not the 302' discrepancies are a result of stupidity or cupidity makes no difference.
Testify in opposition to the 302 and you are in the crosshairs of the Feds.

If they believe your testimony cost them the case, the next thing you likely to hear from the FBI will be:
Please place your hands behind your back.

A HABDE of years ago, fed up with the 302 Two Step, I turned the tables on n them.

ile: /#C\/Documents%20and/420Settings/T) aria sae -uction/eDocs/eMail/Grant_ Smith066474*eMaiiContent.htm (2 of 6) [11/6/2010 10:16: 47 PM]
14491

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030928 -
