348 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

A guess would mean particles have free will; no extraneous
influence or piece of information either on their person or from some
external source could have any effect. We are now going to prove the
particle does guess.

The Proof
Conway and Kochen construct their proof from a small set of axioms,
which form a rhyme. The axioms are; twin, fin and spin.

If two particles are separated by a distance (fin) and entangled
(twin), the spins of the particles (spin) cannot be determined by any
information in their history of the Universe up to that point. The proof
relies on a thought experiment.

Consider twin particles separated by a long distance. Physicists call
this ‘space like separation. All this means is one particle is measured on, say,
Earth and the other on Mars, so relativity is significant in the experiment.
This may be impractical today but there is no reason the experiment
could not be done in principle. In the future, our children could set up
on the UN Moon base and fire one photon to a detector on Hubble II
and the other to the future Mars Orbital Station. Farfetched? If you had
told Einstein back in 1947 that in less than 70 years we would be able
to measure individual photons by sending them down spun glass fibers
to locations separated by 50 kilometers, involving a multidisciplinary
team composed of American, German, French and Russian scientists, all
working in harmony, he might have been equally incredulous.

As the proof introduces relativity we also need two imaginary
rocket ships. They must be traveling below the speed of light, so no Star
Trek Enterprise or Millennium Falcon. We will have to stick with an old-
school spaceship, the Sulaco from Aliens should do the trick. They must
travel in opposite directions, passing our Moon Base just as the scientists
run the experiment.

Special Relativity shows our Universe has a strange property: there
is no such thing as a simultaneous event for two observers — at least if
they are separated by any distance. From the point of view of the first
spaceship, the measurement on Mars occurs first. But from the vantage
point of the second observer, the measurement on Hubble occurs first.

Now comes the proof by counter example. Let us suppose the
particles were influenced by an outside effect and had no free will.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016038
