COWEN
COLLABORATIVE INSIGHTS February 25, 2019

Maine

2

Despite being one of 10 states to legalize marijuana for recreational use, health officials
in Maine recently ordered businesses in the state to remove CBD-infused edibles from
store shelves according to an article in the Portland Press Herald. Similar to California,
the Maine Department of Health and Human Services appears to be following the FDA’s
lead in determining that CBD is an unapproved food additive.

State health inspectors in Maine have reportedly told businesses to remove “all foods,
tinctures and capsules’ containing CBD from their shelves; however, business owners
can still sell “CBD products that can be smoked, vaped, worn as a patch or applied asa
lotion, and all medical marijuana patients can still buy oral CBDs from licensed
caregivers or dispensaries.”

New York

In response to the 2018 Farm Bill, the New York State Department of Agriculture and
Markets issued a FAQ dated Dec. 18, 2018 on the manufacture and sale of hemp-
derived CBD products. The department indicates that its current guidance is subject to
change and that it will likely be issuing additional regulations as the industry evolves.

The FAQ suggests that New York will allow the sale of CBD products sold as a topical or
dietary supplement (pill or tincture), the latter of which runs counter to FDA’s current
position. However, the guidance appears to restrict CBD products for vaping/inhalation.

Additionally, New York will require licensure and prior written approval to produce and
sell certain food and beverages under the New York State Industrial Hemp Research
Pilot Program. Licensees under the program can sell products that are “(1) listed in your
Research Plan and (2) produced in a facility meeting dietary-supplement GMP standards
and (3) properly labeled and packaged for sale pursuant to FDA regulations for dietary
supplements, and (4) in compliance with all provisions of the Research Partner
Agreement.”

Otherwise, New York will restrict the manufacture and sale of ready-to-eat food and
beverage products with added CBD infusions or CBD extracts and lists products such as
“CBD chocolate syrup, CBD soda, and CBD-infused frosting drizzled cookies.” In early
February, the New York Times reported that the New York Department of Health and
Mental Hygiene was beginning to more aggressively enforce this restriction in New York
City restaurants and eateries.

North Carolina

The North Carolina Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services recently
announced its intent to issue warning letters to manufacturers and retailers who sell
products containing CBD oil in the state. According to a Feb 8 press release, North
Carolina will follow current federal laws, meaning that “CBD cannot legally be added to
any human food or animal feed that is for sale,” as CBD is the active ingredient in an
FDA-approved therapy and cannot be considered a dietary supplement.

North Carolina intends to take an “educate before regulate stance with industry,”
according to the release. However, the state will “reserve the right to be more assertive”
to ensure consumer health and safety, likely meaning product embargoes and seizures.

COWEN.COM 7

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024893
