6-figure sums or more.

He’s sentence to jail in 2008 for 18 months and serves 13 (while Epstein is
now frequently accused of somehow managing to cut short his sentence, almost all
Florida prisoners serve only 70% of their officially sentenced time).

Jail hardly ends the legal catch all. Epstein's butler, Alfredo Rodriguez,
steals and tries to sell an alleged journal or calendar with Epstein’s activities—but
he tries to sell it to an undercover agent. Rodriguez is sentenced to 18 months in
jail on a charge of theft and of withholding evidence (it is not so much a journal as
a list of phone numbers, which were apparently collected or saved by Rod
Rodriguez; all of this stolen material was somehow subsequently included in a
court filing by Edwards). Scott Rothstein, a lawyer whose firm represented
additional girls in their suits against Epstein, also goes to jail for recruiting
investors to pay for these suits on the fraudulent basis that settlements had already
been reached. It’s the largest fraud in Florida history and Rothstein receives a
50-year sentence.

Then, Brad Edwards, Rothstein’s former partner, sues the federal
government in 2008 for abridging the rights of two of the original complainants
under the Crime Victim Rights Act (giving victims the right to be consulted about
the disposition of their cases) regarding the Justice Departments agreement not to
prosecute in favor of the state action. In 2014, Edwards tries to ad Virginia
Roberts, another of the original complainants, who has previously settled with
Epstein, to the long-running suit. Roberts who was paid a settlement under the
original terms of Epstein’s agreement—that he would pay attorney’s fees and not
oppose any law suits against him—is now trying to overturn the agreement under
which she was paid, and, with Edwards, further suing Epstein for $50,000,000.

Indeed, Roberts, with the Daily Mail being her prime outlet, emerges as the
most vocal accuser—and, in fact, the some total of the current story and attention.

That is, there is no story without her and what is being billed as her memoir
of her “sex slavery” with Epstein, written ten years after the fact. Along with the
Dershowitz and Prince Andrew charges, Roberts puts, with rather some narrative
detail, both Clinton and Al and Tipper Gore on the island—and in fact Clinton,
apparently with the acquiescence of the Secret Service, flying in a helicopter
piloted by Epstein’s girlfriend, an amateur pilot. Epstein’s lawyers say that not
only have Clinton and the Gores never been to the Epstein Island, but this fantasy
is easily disproven by dsecret service records, which would seem to make the
memoir opportunistic or hallucinatory fiction.

The FBI, in a recent filing, has argued that Roberts should not be party to the
suit against the government because she refused to cooperate with the government
in its investigation in 2007, hence has no standing as a victim. (At the same time,
the FBI included her on the list of 40 victims with whom it mandated Epstein reach

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022860
