° In November of 2006, at an event launching the new Center for Inquiry in Washington D.C., you met a
volunteer for CFI D.C.

° At the event, you asked for her business card. Later, you followed her as she was leaving and asked
her if she was “of age.”

° Later, you emailed her to invite her to dinner.

° You planned to dine with her in the restaurant at the Washington D.C. hotel where you were staying.

° You told her to come up to your room first because you needed to finish some work.

° In your hotel room, you seemed in no rush to leave. You ordered a cheese plate, and later champagne,
despite her suggestion that you go down to dinner.

° You then made a comment about her eye makeup, getting very close to her face.

° You then lifted her by her arms, and pushed her onto the bed beneath you, forcibly kissing her and

trying to pull down the crotch of her tights.
° She struggled to push you off her.
° You said, “When | was in college | could never get a girl that looked like you.”

° When you pulled out a condom, she got out from under you. She said “I have to go,” and rushed out of
the room.

Incident 2:

° In an incident that occurred in fall of 2007 while you were a physics professor at Case Western Reserve
University, a student tried to talk to you about her plans after graduation. You mentioned to her how tough it
must be to have all the other physics majors asking her out on dates.

° In a second incident in December of 2007, while you were still at Case Western, the same student
visited your office to interview you for a student science journal. You closed the door behind her, and ignored
the questions she had prepared. Then you made a casual comment about taking her out for dinner.

° Later, in a regular column for the school paper, she described her experiences with you, without
mentioning you by name. “There was even one particular creep of a professor who once told me he thought
differently of me compared to other students and asked me to dinner: a situation so disturbing that it left me
upset for weeks afterward,” she wrote.

° She was then approached by a dean at the university, who suspected that she was referring to you,
based on a previously reported incident with another student. He encouraged her to make a complaint, and
she did.

° University investigators interviewed both you and the student.

° On September 4, 2008, Susan Nickel-Schindewolf, the university’s associate vice president for student
affairs, wrote to the student, telling her that the investigation was complete. She wrote that you had been told:
“This type of behavior could constitute sexual harassment in violation of the university’s sexual harassment
policy.”

° The letter also stated that you were prohibited from making contact with the student as long as she
remained at Case.

° The letter also stated that you are required to get approval from the dean or the chair of the physics
department before setting foot on the campus again.

° The letter also stated, “Dr. Krauss expressed regret about having a negative impact on you, and also
his willingness to use this complaint as an opportunity to reflect and improve on his future interactions with
students.”

° By then, you had already left Case, taking up your current position at Arizona State University the
month before.

° “The opportunities being offered at ASU are simply too great to turn down at this stage in my career,”
you told Case colleagues, in an email announcing your departure on April 16, 2008.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031438
