differences, all inflicted with this developmental disorder have difficulty understanding the beliefs,
intentions and emotions of others, and often become hyper-aroused when seeing, hearing, or touching
rather unremarkable objects or events. All of these capacities require a system that can integrate multiple
sources of information. During brain scanning, individuals with autism show a striking reduction in
activity in an area called the insula and its connection to both the somatosensory cortex and amygdala.
The insula is an area of the brain that is like a traffic cop, responsible for coordinating the flow of
information in the brain, both where it is coming from and where it should go. The somatosensory cortex
handles our body’s response to the world, including its state of arousal. The amygdala plays a key role in
emotional processing, and more generally, in generating positive or negative assessments about the value
of an experience. With the traffic cop asleep, and the body’s arousal and emotional hubs dormant, it is no
wonder that those with autism lack empathy, can’t understand what it means for someone to be in love,
are befuddled by deception, and find the bombardment from our media-intense world truly
overwhelming. The lack of connectivity among those with autism is proof that connectivity is necessary
for promiscuous thinking.

Once we evolved our massively connected, promiscuous brain, tool use, communication,
mathematics, music, and morality were transformed. No longer were we constrained to think within the
confines of the evolved context. We could take aspects of an ancient psychology that evolved for one
problem and use it for new purposes, some beneficial to us individually and as members of a group, and
some costly to our own and others’ survival.

Consider our capacity to defend members within a group against attack from individuals outside
the group. Many, perhaps even the majority of religious groups have carried out this mission, some with
violence such as the Catholic-Protestant conflict in Ireland, and some with tranquility such as the
Tibetan’s plea for peace amidst a powerful Chinese oppressor. The process starts, however, with an
ancient system that we share with all socially living animals. To survive and reproduce, individuals
cooperate with members of their own group and defend their resources against members of neighboring
groups. All animals, humans included, recognize group members by distinctive markings or recalling
features associated with specific individuals. We transformed this evolutionarily ancient capacity into a
distinctively human one by combining it with our systems of language, morality, and beliefs. This
combination allows us to use symbols to demarcate those within our group from those outside, to tie these
symbols to distinctive beliefs, values, and emotions, and to use these different psychological systems to
caricature the other as buffoon, vermin, parasite, or inanimate cargo. This combinatorial process allows
us to cleanse the in-group by annihilating the out-group. It allows us to increase cooperation within a
group while ramping up the defenses to take out enemies living outside the group. This strategy is

simple and effective. First, convince one group of people that another group has a set of undesirable traits,

Hauser Chapter 1. Nature’s secrets 31

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012777
