in the White House for two years and then leave to run Trump’s reelection campaign. “If
you can get this idiot elected twice,” Nunberg marveled, you would achieve something
like immortality in politics.

But through another window, Bannon couldn’t possibly remain in place. He seemed to
have moved into a heightened state that allowed him to see just how ridiculous the White
House had become. He could barely hold his tongue—indeed, he couldn’t hold it. Pressed,
he could not see the future of the Trump administration. And, while many Bannonites
argued the case for Jarvanka ineffectiveness and irrelevance—just ignore them, they said
—Bannon, with mounting ferocity and pubic venom, could abide them less and less every
day.

Bannon, continuing to wait for his call to join the president in Bedminster, decided that
he would force the situation and offered his resignation to Kelly. But this was in fact a
game of chicken: he wanted to stay. On the other hand, he wanted Jarvanka to go. And
that became an effective ultimatum.

7 OK Ok

At lunch on August 8, in the Clubhouse at Bedminster—amid Trumpish chandeliers, golf
trophies, and tournament plaques—the president was flanked by Tom Price, the secretary
of health and human services, and his wife, Melania. Kellyanne Conway was at the lunch;
so were Kushner and several others. This was one of the “make-work” events—over
lunch, there was a discussion of the opioid crisis, which was then followed by a statement
from the president and a brief round of questions from reporters. While reading the
statement in a monotone, Trump kept his head down, propping it on his elbows.

After taking some humdrum questions about opioids, he was suddenly asked about
North Korea, and, quite as though in stop-action animation, he seemed to come alive.

North Korea had been a heavy-on-detail, short-on-answers problem that that he
believed was the product of lesser minds and weaker resolve—and that he had trouble
paying attention to. What’s more, he had increasingly personalized his antagonism with
North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, referring to him often with derogatory epithets.

His staff had not prepared him for this, but, in apparent relief that he could digress
from the opioid discussion, as well as sudden satisfaction at the opportunity to address this
nagging problem, he ventured out, in language that he’d repeated often in private—as he
repeated everything often—to the precipice of an international crisis.

“North Korea best not make any more threats to the United States. They will be met
with the fire and the fury like the world has never seen. He has been very threatening
beyond a normal state, and as I said they will be met with fire and fury and frankly power,
the likes of which this world has never seen before. Thank you.”

7 OK Ok

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020104
