4.2.12
WC: 191694

that word, at least to my family) Uncle Hedgie, who you always knew exactly what he was
thinking.

When I began teaching at age 25, some of my more proper students objected to my constant
interruptions, until I persuaded them that being interrupted was a compliment, signifying that their
point had been made and understood. (We get it.) Some televisions viewers have also written
to me about my penchant for interrupting opposing talking heads. It's simply a matter of style,
not rudeness, though some mistake the former for the latter.

Another blessing of my early religious training relates to memory and my use of it in my
professional life. My mother was blessed (cursed?) with a near perfect memory. (Probably more
nature than nurture.) She could recall virtually everything from her youth. When she was in her
80s, she would spot someone on the train and go over to her and ask her “Aren’t you Mildred
Cohen and weren’t you in my sixth grade class?” She was invariably right. She remembered,
word for word, what she had been taught in the third or fourth grade. She remembered every
melody she had ever learned, even though she never went to concerts and didn’t listen to
recordings as an adult. She could recite from memory long poems she learned in elementary
school. Most surprising of all, she had committed to memory an entire Latin mass, which a
Catholic elementary schoolteacher, in an effort to Americanize the children of immigrants, had
made her learn by heart. She had no idea what it meant, but it was one of her favorite parlor
tricks to repeat its Latin words, accompanied by the church melody she had learned. She never
forgot anything she had heard, read or smelled. Growing up with a mother who never forgot was
a curse for me, because I did a good many things I wish she could forget.

Although I always knew I had a good memory, I discovered that I had inherited my mother’s
extraordinary gift while participating in intercollegiate debates. The debate tournaments always
took place on Saturday. I pleaded with my parents to let me go, promising that I would travel
before the Sabbath and after the Sabbath, and that I would say my prayers wherever I happened
to be. My parents agreed on the condition that I not write during the Sabbath. (“Meturnished”)
My mother told me it wasn’t necessary to write because I could remember things that others had
to write down. (“Our family has good memories.”) I was doubtful but it proved to be true. I
became a champion debater and my teammates marveled at the fact that I didn’t bring a pencil or
pad but could recite word for word what my opponent had said before responding to it. I then
realized what a blessing this memory was. I went through the rest of college and law school
without ever taking a note. This enabled me to listen very carefully to what was being taught and
to have a far better understanding of it than the student “stenographers” who were busy taking
down every word the teacher said, as if putting it in writing was a substitute for understanding it.
To this day, I rarely take notes, even in court, though my memory for new information is not
nearly as good as it used to be.

Recently, after watching the film Invictus, my wife asked me if I had any idea who wrote the
poem by that name. She thought it must be a well known poet, such as Byron or Shelly. Without
thinking, I blurted out Henley. She replied who the hell is Henley? I said, I don't have the
slightest idea, but I think Invictus was written by some English poet named Henley. She
checked Google and sure enough the poem was written by a relatively obscure Victorian poet
named William Ernst Henley (1849-1903), who wrote little else of note. His name popped into

33

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017120
