I'm not shocked at traffickers using this method of promises to lure unsuspecting girls into
Slavery, I've seen it, read about it, studied it. I’m in shock that it flourishes in the most visible,
glaring spotlight of our culture, the part that worhips and presents our current idea of beauty in
almost everything we touch.

These victims are on the most prominent slave block ever, emulated by our children, coveted by
our culture-makers and our society, and standing in the brightest global spotlight in the

world. In plain sight, reported on in numerous stories for decades and yet only escalating in
usage until they've become the golden mean.

We can quietly ignore the ones resold daily in our town, who made our clothes, chocolate,
housewares, provided the gold on our fingers and necks, electronics in our hands, labor in our
fields. Here, finally, are slaves we fantasize about being, emulating, allow our society to be
shaped by, consider trophies.

What will this say about us if we don’t drastically change it? All of it.

Katie Ford walked away from an empire the first time she learned about slavery. she's working
to change with this thing she recognized to be permeating the industry. That is courage.

Regulating Modeling Agencies to Help Prevent Child Sex Trafficking

Conchita Sarnoff
Posted: 02/10/2012 8:49 pm

In 2010, Jezebel, an online site, published “The Sex Trafficking Model Scout” warning about the
dangers of deregulated modeling agencies in the U.S.

Given the growing number of modeling agencies that transport underage teenagers from foreign
countries tnto the United States and the growing sex trade of underage girls in the U.S. why does
this industry remain deregulated?

Since the advent of this business, modeling agencies have had free reign to scout teenagers from
every state in the country as well as every nation in the world. Many of these teenage girls come
from economically disadvantaged families and are offered none to very limited protection while
traveling and working as “models.”

Jezebel reported that Jean Luc Brunel, one of the cast of characters involved in the ongoing
Jetfrey Epstein (a level 3 registered sex offender), eight-year-long case, has been working for
over two decades with a succession of agencies in New York and Paris. According to media
reports, Diane Sawyer produced a segment for CBS's 60 Minutes featuring a sex scandal that
eventually led Eileen Ford (founder of renowned Ford modeling agency) to stop working with
Brunel.

Brunel's latest venture is the modeling agency MC2 based in South Beach, Fla. with satellite
offices in New York and Tel Aviv. Since his agency is deregulated and “no criminal charges

40

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011951
