“But you know something, Bob? It’s all image.”
“Well, that is precisely the purpose of public relations.”
“No, I mean my so-called marriage is all image. Pat and I have not, you know, slept together for many years. My God, I was the President of the Unites States, and I couldn’t even get laid by my own wife.”
“Sir, you don’t really want to talk about this--”
“And I’ll tell you where it started. During the Cuban Crisis in October ’62. Boy, Kennedy sure won a helluva lot of points on that one. And it could’ve been me confronting Khrushchev. I mean a real international shootdown, not just waving my finger at him in Safire’s goddamn makeshift kitchen.”
“That would have been the logical extension of your Russian trip.”
“I tell you, the unspeakable frustration of not being in a position to negotiate that missile thing. I just couldn’t get it up for Pat, plus the pressure of the California campaign was going on then too. And after we lost that election, she started talking about a divorce. We compromised with separate bedrooms.”
Suddenly I stood up, walked around my desk to where Haldeman was sitting, and I ran my hand back and forth across the top of his crewcut. I am not very physically demonstrative, but I had always wanted to do that. Still, this was almost a spontaneous gesture.
“You stuck by me, Bob,” I said while I rubbing his hair. “Finch dropped out, but you . . . “ And I began weeping uncontrollably.
“Sir, is there anything I can do?”
Between sobs I blurted out, “Oh, sure”—I certainly did not intend for this to be taken literally—“Why don’t you try sucking my cock, maybe that’ll help.”
To my utter astonishment, Haldeman unzipped my fly and proceeded with what can only be described as extreme efficiency. The whole thing could not have taken more than five minutes from beginning to end. He must have had some practice during his old prep-school days. Neither of us said a word—before, during or after.
This misunderstanding was comparable to the time that Jeb Magruder remarked how convenient it would be if we could get rid of Jack Anderson, and G. Gordon Liddy assumed that was a direct order and rushed out to accomplish the act. If Liddy had not blabbed his “assignment” to an aide in the corridor, Anderson might not be alive today.
As for my own motivation, here was an experience not of homosexuality but of power. I realized that if I could order the Pentagon to bomb Cambodia, it was of no great consequence that I was now merely permitting my chief of staff to perform fellatio on me. In fact, I was fully cognizant of what an honor it must have been for him.
When the incident was over, I simply returned to my desk, and although the tension of vulnerability was still in the air, we resumed our discussion as if nothing had occurred.
“Now,” I said in a normal tone of voice, “what’s on the agenda?”
“Sir,” Haldeman began, “on this Watergate problem, it would be advantageous to us if any similar activity on the part of the Democrats could be leaked to the media.”
“Well, Hoover once told me—this was right after we won in ’68—he said that within the previous month, LBJ had the FBI put the bug on Agnew and me. Ramsey Clark was attorney general then, but he never authorized it, so that was an illegal wiretap.”
“Perfect. We start with Lyndon Johnson and work our way back.”
“But no, on second thought, the LBJ tap would open up the whole Dragon Lady can of beans. I mean that was the goddamn excuse they had for spying on us.”
Then Haldeman delivered a resounding pep talk—when he lets loose he can be an emotional marvel—about the importance of launching a counterattack against our enemies.
I must say at this point that Rose Mary Woods deserves a Medal of Honor for the way she was willing to humiliate herself by taking full blame for accidentally erasing those first five minutes rather than stand by while my public image was being destroyed.
Moreover, when General Alexander Haig learned from Haldeman’s notes that during those additional thirteen-and-a-quarter-minutes there was a discussion of how to deal with Watergate, thereby proving that I was involved in the cover-up only three days after the break-in, Haig attributed the erasure to “sinister forces.” He said this under oath in Judge John Sirica’s courtroom.
Now that is loyalty above and beyond the call of duty.
*   *   *
In retrospect, I realize that H.R. Haldeman was part of the plot against me all along, always trying to ingratiate himself—anything to impress me, when actually he w as trying to hurt my political career. Not that he was against me personally; I was just his particular assignment as part of an overall plan “to destroy,” in the words of Frank Sturgis, “the office of the presidency.”
Haldeman was a saboteur in the guise of a sycophant. In 1967, when he was a vice president at the J. Walter Thompson advertising agency, he sent me a long memo on how I could use the media in my ’68 campaign. I have since learned that during World War II, various corporations—Standard Oil, Wrigley Chewing Gum, Paramount Pictures—lent their services to the Office of Strategic Services, which later became the CIA. The Thompson Agency supplied Kenneth Hinks to be chief of the OSS planning staff. One of Haldeman’s predecessors, Richard de Rochemont, a vice president of J. Walter Thompson, was offered a position with the Secret Intelligence Branch of the OSS. Another Thompson official, Donald Coster, stayed on with the CIA in South Vietnam from 1959 to 1962.
That’s when Haldeman really latched on to me, in the ’62 campaign. And when we lost, it was Haldeman who persuaded me to make a public fool of myself with that godawful “You won’t have Nixon to kick around any more” press conference. It was Haldeman in 1972 who acted as a double agent and conspired with Dick Tuck to have all those Chinese fortune cookies contain the same message: “What about the Howard Hughes loan?” And it was Haldeman who consciously sabotaged the research on the Hiss chapter in Six Crises.
On one occasion I was meeting with a group of blind veterans in the Oval Office. I wanted to display my empathy with them, so I began describing the Presidential Seal, which was woven into the carpet we happened to be standing on. A blind veteran got down on his knees and started feeling that design with his hands. I closed my eyes and proceeded to do the same. It was perhaps the most spontaneous gesture of my life, although I must admit I was grateful to hear the sound of cameras whirring. I was pleased that this scene of my true humanity was being recorded for posterity. But Haldeman ordered an embargo on that photograph, ostensibly to protect the dignity of my image, because the president should never be seen in a kneeling position.
Even a year after he resigned, there he was, old faithful Bob Haldeman, backstage with me at the Grand Ole Opry in Nashville. He chided Johnny Cash for that time he refused to sing “Welfare Cadillac” at the White House, and Cash now replied, “Should I do it tonight and dedicate the song to you now that you’re on welfare?”
Haldeman did not appreciate the humor in that. He was too preoccupied with the betrayal of me that he had in mind. He handed me a yellow yo-yo and said, “This will really please the crowd. It’s an official Roy Acuff model.” I put the yo-yo in my pocket. Haldeman did not mention that the string had been loosened at the bottom, so when I was onstage and I flung that yo-yo down, it just stayed there. Once again, Haldeman had transformed the president into an asshole.
It was Haldeman who had urged me to Install the White House taping system. It was Haldeman who hired Alexander Butterfield, who testified to the whole world about the tapes, and told the FBI about E. Howard Hunt. Butterfield brought in Al Wong to set up the system and check it every day. And it was Wong who brought James McCord onto the team. It all seems so obvious now.
One thing about Gerald Ford, though: He keeps his promises—not only to pardon me, but also his promise to fire Alexander Butterfield, even though Ford was actually grateful to him. As for me, I should have listened to L. Patrick Gray when he warned me, “People on your staff are trying to mortally wound you.”
My wife, Pat, has sworn to me that she never told anyone about our marital difficulties, and of course I believe her, so the leak to Woodward and Bernstein could only have come from Haldeman. On top of all his other betrayals, he must have been Deep Throat too.
*   *   *
There was one plan of the White House Plumbers that never came to fruition. It involved the theft of Patricia Ellsberg’s dental records. This was my own idea—not Haldeman’s, not Hunt’s, not Liddy’s—they were satisfied with obtaining the records of Daniel Ellsberg’s psychiatrist.
But I remembered that the first time Alger Hiss confronted Whittaker Chambers, he requested to see his teeth. Hiss explained to me that he suspected Chambers might be someone he had known years before, and he wanted to see his teeth to make sure.
Well, that recollection inspired me. We were able to obtain the dental records of Ellsberg’s wife, all right, but did not have the opportunity to use them in helping to prove that she was guilty of espionage. I could not imagine exactly how we were going to achieve this but I did know that, whatever, it would be accepted by the public simply because the charge itself was so “off the wall.”
How odd that Whittaker Chambers, the dignified translator of Bambi, had been asked to publicly show his teeth as if he were some kind of stud at a horse show. I have never been able to forget that moment.
*   *   *
The paradox of our nation is that we turn our vices into virtues. As the truth about political assassinations—from Malcolm X to Mrs. Dorothy Hunt—finally begins to emerge, we may truthfully say, “Only in America does there exist the freedom to reveal how insidious we have been, and then to continue in our insidious way with an even more determined spirit.”
I still believe that the United States is the greatest country in the world. It is also the greatest show on earth.
I once had a vision of myself leaving Washington the way Jimmy Durante used to end his TV program, standing in a spotlight and bowing gracefully to the audience, then walking back a few steps into another spotlight, bowing again, and so on. Instead, I ended up sounding as helpless as Hal the Computer in the movie 2001, unable to control my own memory banks.
My consolation for this personal tragedy is summed up in Jeane Dixon’s prediction: “Historians yet unborn are going to take the facts, and Richard Nixon will go down as a great President. They’re going to find that the price the world is paying for trying to discredit Nixon is going to be that we’ll practically lose our freedom.”
In the meantime, I am, at long last, completely at peace with myself. It has been worth all the struggle.
Postscript:
After “A Sneak Preview of Richard Nixon’s Memoirs” was published, syndicated columnist Liz Smith—who hadn’t seen that piece—wrote that H.R. Haldeman had been in the Oval Office with Nixon, and that his trousers were down to his ankles. Hoping to smoke out the truth, I retyped one page of the manuscript, inserting a phrase (shown in italics) in this sentence: “When the incident was over, I simply returned to my desk, and although the tension of vulnerability was still in the air and my trousers were still around my ankles, we resumed our discussion as if nothing had occurred.” I then photocopied the manuscript and sent it to Liz Smith.  I had assumed she would check with her source. Instead, she wrote in her column that she had been fooled by me, implying that her source had based that revelation on my article. Somehow my hoax on Liz Smith backfired. I had become a victim of my own satirical prophecy.
In his memoirs, I had Nixon insisting that Watergate was a setup to get rid of him as president. A decade later, Nixon himself made that claim in a network television interview. Furthermore, Haldeman in his book, The Ends of Power, would reveal that Nixon used code words when talking about the murder of President Kennedy. Haldeman said that Nixon always referred to the assassination as “the Bay of Pigs.” And, on May 5, 1977, the Houston Post published a UPI dispatch that stated:
“Watergate burglar Frank Sturgis said Wednesday that the CIA planned the break-in because high officials felt Richard Nixon was becoming too powerful and was overly interested in the assassination of John Kennedy . . . ‘Several times the President asked CIA director Richard Helms for the files on the Kennedy assassination, but Helms refused to give them to him, refused a direct order from the President,’ Sturgis said. ‘I believe Nixon would have uncovered the true facts in the assassination of President Kennedy and that would have taken off the heat in Watergate. Because Nixon wanted files, the CIA felt they had to get rid of him.’ Asked if Nixon ever was in danger, Sturgis replied, ‘Yes, absolutely. Nixon was lucky he wasn’t killed—assassinated like President Kennedy.’”
One other thing.  “A Sneak Preview of Richard Nixon’s Memoir” was originally published in 1976, in which Nixon insisted that Watergate was a set-up to get rid of him as president. About a decade later, Tricky Dick made that exact same claim on a network television interview.
Satirical prophecy in action.


Why I Leaked the Anita Hill Affidavit

I shall identify myself only as a female aide to a Republican senator. It is also relevant that I have long nurtured a keen interest in psycho-history, the process by which a nation’s direction is interpreted as an extension of the psychological makeup of those individuals who govern it.
Without going into specific detail, let me simply state that on October 5, 1991, I happened to hear part of a conversation among Judge—now Supreme Court Justice—Clarence Thomas, Senator Orrin Hatch and Senator Alan Simpson. The three were meeting informally one week after the Judiciary Committee voted, first 7-7, then 13-1, to recommend the confirmation of Judge Thomas, and one day after the full Senate indicated that he would be confirmed.
The conversation I happened to hear had to do with those charges brought by Anita Hill and ignored by the members of the committee, both Democratic and Republican. At that point in time I still thought this was an appropriate response, because the alternative would have been to hold an executive session, and Judge Thomas would then have had no practical choice but to resort to heavy denial. Now, however, these men were, in a jocular fashion, acknowledging the truth of what would turn out to be Professor Hill’s allegations.
Senator Simpson was saying, “Y’know, Clarence, I’ve seen some pretty raunchy porno movies in my time, but I never did see one where a lady was having sex with an animal.”
“I’ll never forget it,” Judge Thomas replied in his riveting sonorous tone. “They were in a barn. Except that the inside of the barn was like a theater.”
Senator Hatch interjected, “Summer stock, eh? No pun intended”
“There was a stage at one end,” Judge Thomas continued his description, “and the stage was facing rows and rows of wooden folding chairs. There were haystacks piled up on the stage, and in front of the haystacks there was a beautiful, buxom, blond woman—and a donkey. Well, the woman began disrobing and she started stroking the donkey to arousal.”
“Doesn’t sound at all sleazy to me,” Senator Simpson said.
“Actually, it had Beethoven piano sonatas playing in the background,” Judge Thomas said. “Well, when the woman was fully disrobed and the donkey was fully aroused, they began copulating, right there in front of those haystacks on the stage of that barn. Slow and sensual. Then bumping and grinding away, accompanied by passionate moans and wild braying. You’ve never seen a sight like this, I promise. And then the camera panned slowly toward the audience . . . and the audience consisted entirely of donkeys.”
The Senate office shook with raucous laughter, especially that of Judge Thomas. His booming guffaws rang like huge gongs in a church belfry. And, I must admit, I had to suppress my own laughter. I had been totally caught by surprise, but I appreciated getting the insight. Homo sapiens is, in reality, the only species that has a need for pornography.
When the group’s laughter finally began to simmer down, Senator Hatch said, “I suppose that movie was one of the demands of the animal rights people.”
“That’s correct,” Senator Simpson added. “Saving animals’ lives is no longer enough. They need culture.”
I felt like I was imprisoned in the boys’ locker room, but I was getting ready to force myself to leave anyway, and it would have ended right there for me if the subject matter hadn’t returned to Anita Hill.
“I’m glad nobody considered calling her to testify against me, even for a closed-door session,” Judge Thomas said. “But you fellas will really love this. Anita Hill was a very opinionated young lady. Actually, she and I once had an extremely animated discussion on the decriminalization of abortion. Can you imagine what the Democrats would’ve done with that?”
And that was the precise instant I made the decision to leak Professor Hill’s statement to the press. Although I have constantly been sexually hassled, I have never really been harassed in the legal sense of the word. However, I have had an abortion, and I was totally outraged by the blatant hypocrisy I’d overheard. I had never leaked a document before, but my anger overshadowed my fear.
I chose Nina Totenberg because I had come to trust her reporting about the Supreme Court on National Public Radio. I honestly had no idea what leaking the affidavit would accomplish. I certainly did not envision that it would literally embarrass the Senate into delaying the vote until public hearings were held, though that probably was my secret desire.
But Judge Thomas testified under oath that he had never discussed the subject of abortion. However, in response to a question by Senator Hank Brown, Professor Hill testified that she had disagreed with Judge Thomas in a discussion about Roe v. Wade. Unfortunately, then-Senator Joseph Biden quickly interrupted her.
“That is not the subject of these hearings,” he said.
Personally, I feel quite disappointed about that particular aspect of the testimony, but I have not the slightest regret over leaking Anita Hill’s affidavit, and I would gladly do it all over again.
I certainly set a higher moral standard for myself than did the staffer for Senator John Danforth who wrote Judge Thomas’s statement that began, “Nobody helped me with this.”


President Clinton’s Private Confession

The following is a leaked transcript of a closed-door, secretly taped prayer breakfast that Bill Clinton hosted for a group of religious leaders after the impeachment trial failed to remove him from office.
#
Gentlemen--and lady (I guess you must be the Episcopalian)—thank you for being here. It’s too bad Reverend Moon isn’t among us this morning, so he could perform a mass impeachment of all the senators who swore under oath that they would be impartial. But seriously, folks, I’d like begin with an epiphany I had yesterday, one that truly humbled me. Strangely enough, it happened while I was watching The Roseanne Show. I had never seen it before, but she was interviewing Paula Jones and, as my mother used to say, curiosity got the best of me.
Ms. Jones was telling Roseanne about the first time she saw me in that hotel. She was working at the courtesy booth for the governors’ conference. She described me as funny-looking, the way my hair was styled, being overweight, how my suit was out of fashion and didn’t fit. So, she was sitting at the registration desk with her girlfriend, pointing at me and giggling. Somehow, I perceived her through the filter of arrogance that people with power develop, and I assumed that she was giving me a come-hither look. That simple misperception is what triggered this whole long ordeal. I took her willingness for granted.
It was different with Monica Lewinsky. I mean to say, she flashed the strap of her thong underwear—it made my heart go thump—and, you know, I’m a prisoner at the White House. I can’t go to a motel, but Monica appeared like a gift from Heaven, and I succumbed to temptation. I was fully cognizant that this was a very delicate situation—I even asked for permission to kiss her—yet I blocked out my foresight. Way back in college, when I tried to avoid military service, I was already thinking ahead to campaigning for president, but now I found myself ignoring the likelihood that Monica would not keep our relationship a secret.
I certainly didn’t consider the possibility that she would become so seriously involved with me. It was embarrassing to hear the tape that Linda Tripp made, where Monica told her what she had said to me on the phone: “I love you, Butthead.” I remember thinking when it happened, “Hey, I’m the president of the United States, you can’t call me Butthead.” However, I immediately decided to treat the situation with humor. But she hung up before I could say, “I love you, Beavis.”
Surprisingly, I was not embarrassed about the infamous cigar incident. I felt that it had been an act of restraint from actual intercourse. Kind of tender and playful. Now, if it had been a Cuban cigar, that would have been illegal. But this was not the sort of intimacy that I would have felt comfortable performing with the First Lady. Hillary and I are really close, but as I’m sure you understand, no cigar.
For her, the most revealing thing in The Starr Report is Monica’s fantasy about our—Monica and me—being together more often when I’ll be out of office; where she quotes me as saying, “I might be alone in three years.” Hillary was furious, not only because it had provided a young intern with false encouragement, but also because it implied that we--Hillary and me--don’t have sex, and she felt it divulged our agreement that if we were to separate, it would not occur before we left the White House.
For me, the most revealing section—in that same section of the report—is Monica’s testimony that I jokingly said, “Well, what are we going to do when I’m seventy-five and I have to pee twenty-five times a day?” True, I did say that, but I really wasn’t joking. In fact, it was my fear of old age that kept drawing me to Monica. She was my direct link to youth. So I was being literal about peeing twenty-five times a day when I’m seventy-five. Hell, I drink at least eight glasses of water a day now—just like I’m supposed to, for my health—but then I have to pee at least eight times a day. Ironically, the TV commercials warn that if you have to pee eight times in 24 hours, it’s a symptom of an overactive bladder.
Indeed, irony has permeated this long-running scandal, beginning to end. It was ironic that my sexual appetite helped put me in office—the Gennifer Flowers allegation originally placed me in the media spotlight—and it was my sexual appetite that almost tossed me out of that same office. And it’s ironic that, although Kathleen Willey enjoyed our brief encounter, to prove it we would have had to resort to obtaining testimony from her confidant, the wonderful Linda Tripp.
Now, there are things that I’ve done as president of which I’m truly ashamed. Even before my inauguration, I made it a point to stop in Arkansas to oversee the execution of a mentally retarded prisoner. At his last meal, he said he’d wait to have his dessert, a slice of pecan pie, until after the execution—that’s how much he understood what was going on. I’m ashamed of under-protecting the rights of gays and over-protecting children from the Internet. I’m ashamed of being against medical marijuana and for requiring a urine test as a prerequisite to obtaining a driver’s license. I’m ashamed of bombing Iraq, Afghanistan and Sudan. I’m ashamed of increasing the military budget and decreasing the welfare budget. I’m ashamed of dropping cluster bombs and continuing to plant land mines.
But the Republicans didn’t dare attack me for any of those positions because they are their positions too.
I’ll tell you how I survived this past year, how I maintained such high approval ratings, while Newt Gingrich fell by the wayside. How I managed, in short, to remain president. It was partly the state of the economy, and it was partly the state of the culture. Pornography is a twenty-billion-dollars-a-year business in this country. Steven Spielberg told me that’s more than Hollywood’s entire domestic box-office receipts. Because it’s what the American public wants. And the TV networks exploit that dirty little secret. It’s why sweeps weeks are always so raunchy. So, then, what I did wasn’t considered such a big deal after all.
Mainly, though, I have survived because, one sunny afternoon, Monica was positioning herself on the carpet under my desk in the Oval Office while I was on the phone with Benjamin Netanyahu. I was telling him about the time that Monica was performing oral sex on me while Yassir Arafat was waiting in the Rose Garden for our appointment. I didn’t tell Netanyahu that she was just about to perform the same act on me while I was on the phone with him. Anyway, at that point, Monica found a big old dusty Mason jar under my desk. There was a label on the side which read, “Property of Ronald Reagan.”
That Mason jar was filled with Teflon, and I have rubbed it on myself every day since.
I began my talk this morning with an epiphany, and I’d like to end with another. This epiphany also occurred while I was watching television—Larry King Live—and, once again, Paula Jones was the guest. At one point she said, “I’ve never voted in my life.” And I was astounded. Then she said, “I’m so apolitical, it’s unreal.” And I realized what an incredibly great country America really is, that somebody who was just a plain citizen, who was never even interested in politics—somebody who had never even voted for a president—had nearly succeeded in toppling one.
Well, this has been a catharsis for me. I just want to say once more how much I appreciate your presence here. And finally I would like to share with you a little witticism that Hillary came up with last night, an idea for what my epitaph should be: “Here lies Bill Clinton, but that depends on what you mean by lies.” Isn’t she wonderful?
Oh, and one more thing. Now listen carefully. I did not have sexual assault with that woman, Ms. Broaddrick. I’ll be honest with you, it may have been rough sex, but it was totally consensual. That, I can guarantee. Thank you and God bless you all.


The Autobiography of Monica Lewinsky

The following is an exclusive excerpt from an autobiography-in-progressy by Monica Lewinsky, titled Going Down in History. The manuscript was leaked to The Realist by, of course, a reliable source.
#
I am not an airhead. I’m a victim, partly of my own making. And mostly, I’m a political pawn of the spin doctors. There are several books being written about the White House scandal, but only a few individuals know what really happened, and only I know who I really am, which is why I have decided to write this book. I would write it even if I didn’t need the money for legal expenses. My life may be ruined—at least my reputation will be forever tainted—but the truth must be told.
I don’t like being a one-dimensional symbol. If anybody were to take a free-association test, the psychiatrist would say “Monica Lewinsky” and the patient would immediately respond “Oral sex.” Maybe soon my name will be in a crossword puzzle—the clue: eight letters across—and the correct word will be “fellatio.”
Back home in Brentwood, I’ve been listening to talk radio a lot. Ronn Owens on KABC had listeners phone in with nothing but jokes about me for a solid hour. First he warned the audience that if they were easily offended, they should tune out. I have never felt so objectified in my life, and yet, at the same time, I found the program quite riveting.
The best call came from a nine-year-old who said, “Bill Clinton violated the Eleventh Commandment: Thou shalt not put thy rod in thy staff.” The worst call came from a man who asked, “What do the Titanic and Monica Lewinsky have in common?” The answer was, “They both have dead seamen (semen) floating in the hull.”
And remember that awful piece of gossip—the one Lucianne Goldberg initiated in order to get attention from the press for her—that I kept a blue dress stained with Clinton’s dried ejaculation as a souvenir? Well, Jonathan Brandmeier on KLSX invited listeners to call in and suggest euphemisms for presidential semen. My favorite was “Bubba butter.” Apparently, my role is to serve as a vehicle for the destruction of taboos.
I have also become an automatic comedy reference. So, to Jay Leno, David Letterman and Conan O’Brien, I’m very useful in punchlines. To Saturday Night Live, I’m just a character in their sketches, and never without that beret from my famous hugging-Bill TV footage. But I did think it was hilarious to cast John Goodman in drag as Linda Tripp. That cheered me up. I’ve been simultaneously depressed, scared and, strangely enough, exhilarated.
As an instant celebrity, I’ve learned that everybody always sees everybody else through their own particular filters. Democrats, Republicans, men, women, the other interns—all perceive me subjectively. For a manufacturer of novelty items, I was simply a disembodied inspiration for the marketing of “Presidential Kneepads.” And for Penthouse magazine, I would only be considered their next notorious masturbation enhancer.
In the eyes of the media—from NBC News to Nightline, from TIME magazine to People, from the New York Times to the National Enquirer, from the Washington Post to Entertainment Tonight—I am purely a commodity. Naturally, I believe in the First Amendment, so I’m against censorship. All I’m saying is that while America is achieving adolescence publicly, the tabloids have won the war.
The battleground is like an ongoing contemporary Shakespearean tragicomedy, but there is no script, there is no producer, there is no director. There is only the process of everyone’s karma interacting. I recall the words of Terence McKenna when he was a guest lecturer at Lewis & Clark. He said, “Chaos is the tail that wags the dog.”
Damage control is the name of the game. It was Dick Morris who advised Clinton to get a dog. Buddy, huh? They should’ve named him Photo-Op. It was also Dick Morris who suggested taping that ostensibly candid scene of the First Couple dancing on the beach. And I would bet my entire book advance that both Hillary and Bill knew ahead of time that Dick Morris was going to release a trial balloon that if the rumor about Hillary being a lesbian were true, then it would be perfectly reasonable that her husband would need to seek sexual gratification elsewhere.
In fact, the reason I think that Clinton’s approval ratings have been so high is because people can identify with him fooling around. I mean, when Jimmy Carter admitted that he had lust in his heart, it was the adultery vote that helped get him elected. And that was only lust in his heart. Bill Clinton is an activist.
I’ve been reading a book, Spin Cycle by Howard Kurtz, and there’s a story in there about that time in 1996 when the president said that he “might like to date” a shapely, 500-year-old mummy whose remains were on display at the National  Geographic Society. Later, chatting after a few cocktails, Press Secretary Mike McCurry told a dozen journalists on the press plane that he could understand Clinton’s remark. “Compared to that mummy he’s been fucking,” McCurry chuckled, “why not?” Poor Hillary.
Without bothering to mention that it was off the record, McCurry assumed his joke wouldn’t be reported, and it wasn’t until that book. Washington is a very cynical place. Everything is stated carefully and deliberately, with the intention that it will be repeated. When McCurry told the Chicago Tribune in an interview that Clinton’s relationship with me could turn out to have been “complicated,” it was no slip of the tongue. He was fully aware that his observation would appear in print.
Unlike Richard Nixon, who never dreamed that his words would be published in a book, Abuse of Power: The New Nixon Oval Office Tapes, edited by Stanley Kutner: “Bob [Haldeman], please get me the names of the Jews, you know, the big Jewish contributors to the Democrats. Could we please investigate some of the cocksuckers?”
My mom is a member of the Book of the Month Club, and in their brochure they printed it “c*cks*ck*rs.” Anyhoo, that’s how everybody thinks of me now. I’m the nation’s official c*cks*ck*r laureate.
The image of me on my knees giving head to the president has become a cultural icon. The irony is that it never happened. When Wolf Blitzer from CNN asked Clinton at a press conference what he would like to say to me, Clinton smiled and said, “That’s good, that’s good”—referring sarcastically to the question—but it was extremely ironic, because that’s exactly what I imagined he did say to me: “That’s good, that’s good.” And I replied, “I gave you a blow job, but I didn’t swallow.” He started laughing hysterically, just like that time he did with Boris Yeltsin. Bill liked my sense of humor. That’s why we went from flirtation to friendship.
However, the reasons I visited the White House thirty-seven times was not for Bill—it was to be with Hillary—she was the one who desired me physically. The rumor about her being a lesbian was true. And so my relationship with Bill was complicated. He just acted as a middle man for Hillary, and now, by denying an affair with me, he’s telling the truth and taking the fall for her. In that sense, he’s an incredibly loyal husband. Despite what the public may think, Bill is absolutely devoted to Hillary.
Everybody is watching so closely for him to commit the next indiscretion, but it would have to be with somebody he can totally trust, somebody who could suck the leader of the Western World’s dick and not confide in a friend, or to somebody who pretended to be a friend. So, for a while, Bill is left with only Buddy’s tongue for sexual companionship. At least, Buddy won’t lick and tell. And if I know my president, while Buddy is pleasuring him, Clinton will fantasize that it’s a female dog.


Sarah Palin’s Reality Sitcom

Referring to the Ronald Reagan presidency, Neal Gabler has written about “the triumph of entertainment over political ideology of any sort.” And Kurt Andersen labeled Bill Clinton the “Entertainer-in-Chief.” The voters are the audience, conditioned to fear and superficiality in commercials for erectile dysfunction and political campaigns alike, both having scary side effects. And now the injection of Sarah Palin and her family into the McCain vs. Obama campaign makes one wonder whether the winner of this race will ultimately depend on which candidate presents the better sitcom. It already is a reality show. Do you know what the difference is between a sitcom and a reality show? The laugh track. Otherwise, how would the masses be able to tell whether something is funny or not? Hmmmmm . . . In any case, we’re pleased to present the pilot episode of:
BRIDGES TO NOWHERE
[Instrumental rockabilly music accompanies a montage of Sarah Palin in various contexts, as the opening credits are superimposed on these images: In a helicopter, using a machine-gun to shoot a wolf running away in the snow. As a contestant in the Miss Alaska competition. A wedding photo. Burning a pile of books. Jumping high to block a shot in a basketball game. Seated at her desk in the governor’s office. At a barbecue with her children. Giving a speech to a large crowd. At the bank, exchanging a wolf’s left foreleg for a $150 bounty. Tossing her hat way up in the air and then shooting it down with a rifle.]
[Sarah and Todd are slumped down on the living-room sofa.]
SARAH: I’m exhausted and exhilarated at the same time. I was at the Learning Annex all day, taking that course in “How to Be a Vice President.”
TODD: And I was interviewing potential nannies all day. No one fits the bill yet. But I just keep calling the agency. Maybe I’ll try Craigslist.
[The telephone rings. Todd picks it up.]
TODD: Hello . . . thanks, I will. [Hangs up the phone and clicks on the TV.] That was McCain. [Looks at TV Guide for the channel number and clicks the TV on.]  Keith Olbermann is doing a Special Comment about you on MSNBC. 
OLBERMANN: When John McCain first selected Sarah Palin as his running mate, it seemed to me that it was the best “What were you thinking?” moment since Hugh Grant got caught getting oral sex from a prostitute in his rental car. I was sure that with Governor Palin as the ambush candidate, Senator McCain would be ridiculed into a severe case of buyer’s remorse, his impulsive choice would backfire, and there would then be an epidemic of schaedenfreude among Democats. But I must admit, Ms. Palin, you have, dare I say, a certain Machiavellian charisma, and I was not quite prepared for that. You said that you deliberately tried to make yourself look frumpy, what with those Kawasaki eyeglasses and that chocolate-rust cotton-candy hair-do, sort of like the secretary in a porn movie who takes off her glasses and shakes her hair loose, then she goes ahead and seduces her uptight boss right there on his own black leather executive chair. Or so the comedians tell me, I wouldn’t know. But you might as well be the star of a porn movie, because your main qualification to be vice president is that you have a vagina and you are a cunt. Allow me to parse that for you, Sarah. When I say that you were appointed because you have a vagina, there is no way in semantic purgatory that McCain would have chosen a man who had exactly the same political positions and experience as you--except that your American flag pin is bigger--so his having a penis would simply not make one iota of difference. And, you’re a cunt if for no other reason than, in your acceptance speech, using Barack Obama as a prototype, you demeaned countless dedicated and courageous community organizers across the nation by pretending that, as mayor, you exercised actual responsibilities which ostensibly they don’t have. And I am not being sexist here, Sarah, because I am also calling John McCain a prick, if only because he is against funding higher education for our young men and women who are fighting and being maimed and dying in Iraq and Afghanistan--McCain’s pathetic rationale being that if they had that funding to look forward to, then they just might prefer to come home and go to college rather than re-enlist. So, you-the-cunt and he-the-prick have a very complementary relationship. Support our troops, indeed! McCain’s idea of supporting the troops is to send them more antidepressants--one out of every eight is already on them--so they can go kick down doors and kill people but still feel good about it. Oh, yes, and Sarah, we must not forget how Cindy McCain described the basis of your foreign policy experience. She said, “Alaska is the closest part of our country to Russia.” With allies like that, you don’t need opponents. Cindy reminds me of Jessica Simpson, when she asked if a can of “Chicken of the Sea” was fish or chicken. What’s next, Cindy will sing her own rendition of Rosemary Clooney’s classic song, “C’monna My Houses”?  And speaking of rendition, Sarah, I wonder what you think of the CIA flying prisoners to other continents where they are tortured. Hey, what ever happened to Country First?--they should be tortured in this country--yes, this country that is so incredibly endangered by the Unholy Trinity of corrupt government, welfare corporations and evangelical religion. Incidentally, Sarah, wouldn’t you agree that Rush Limbaugh--infamous hater of the “feminazis”--was a sexist when he boasted, “We’re the ones with a babe on the ticket!” Inquiring minds want to know. Likewise, wouldn’t you agree that McCain was a sexist when he was asked a question about Hillary Clinton during the primaries--“How do we beat the bitch?”--and he replied, “Excellent question.” And wasn’t it sexist of him to vote against equal pay for women? Just remember, Sarah, the only thing that John McCain wants more than to live in the White House is to have a menage a’ trois with you and Cindy. Good night and good luck.
[Todd clicks the TV off.]
SARAH: I’ll tell you something, Todd. I feel like a human dartboard for the media, but I’m developing a thick skin.  
TODD: I know what you mean. I say, “Oh, yeah, media?  [Clutching his crotch]  Troopergate this!”
SARAH: And you know what, the campaign spinners who feed the media are just as bad. They’re like the airport security people, who have to spend all day looking at a screen in order to focus on potential threats in the shape of a gun or a knife or a hand grenade. Both campaigns--they have to focus on each other’s opponents in desperate search of anything that can be deliberately misinterpreted to distract all the dumbed-down voters from the real issues like national security. At first, I thought that was the name of a bank. “Hurry up and invest your money at the National Security Bank--before they fail!”  [Sarah and Todd start laughing hysterically.] And what about earmarks? Why, they’re just political hickies....
*   *   *
[Piper is sitting on a rocking chair in her bedroom, with Trig on her lap, holding a bottle to his mouth with one hand, and continually licking her other hand in order to leave a saliva deposit, then smoothing down Trig’s hair.]
PIPER: Come on now, Trig, I want you to drink your moose’n’banana shake. It tastes so delicious. And it’s good for you too, even if the plastic bottle has poison lead in it because it’s from China or somewhere. Listen, I’m sorry that you were like a circus prop at the convention. People screaming all over the place. But it’s lucky they gave you a watchamacallit, a sedative so you could sleep through all that noise. And you didn’t even know that you were being passed around like a marijuana joint, huh? It’s legal here in Alaska. Did you know that? But it has to be only one ounce or less. And then you have to smoke it in your own house. I’m gonna wait till I’m thirteen before I try it. Bristol and Levi smoke it when Mommy’s out making a speech. If she was here, she’d smell it right away, so then they have to go somewhere else. Mommy says, “Pot may be part of God’s plan, but not in this house.”  She’s always saying that something is part of God’s plan, but I don’t understand what she means about that. Are hurricanes and train crashes part of God’s plan too? Anyhow, you’re not supposed to smoke anything when you’re pregnant, right? Hey, Trig, you wanna hear what I think would be a nice name for Bristol’s baby? Diversion. I didn’t think of that by myself. I heard my teacher tell another teacher that Mommy’s baby is a diversion. I think it could be for either a boy or a girl. Hey, my tongue is dry. I don’t have any watchamacallit, any salvia left. Maybe if I just have a little sip of your moose’n’banana shake. [Drinks from bottle] It’s really yummy...  
*   *   *
[Track is riding a stationery bike in his room while talking with Willow.]
TRACK: I’m telling you, those Iraq Veterans Against the War were real traitors at the Democratic convention. I learned that they had the nerve to be in full uniform, and they were chanting, “My buddy’s in the foxhole with a bullet in his head--I called to get the medic but he’s already dead.” But at our convention, just like the war in Iraq was a justifiable pre-emptive strike, so was the raid on the protesters before the convention began.
WILLOW: What happened?  I was busy taking care of Trig.
TRACK: The police and the sheriff’s department seized material that could’ve been used to barricade roads, and spikes that could disable the delegates’ buses. They confiscated slingshots and buckets of gray water and urine. It’s better to prevent using that stuff before it happens. They busted four people on suspicion of conspiracy to commit a riot, and detained dozens of others. They took boxes of pamphlets on free-speech laws in Minnesota, and booklets on how to protest legally.
WILLOW: That doesn’t seem right. I was listening to the radio, and a pundint was talking --
TRACK: You mean pundit--
WILLOW: --a pundit, he was talking about keeping protesters out of sight, they could only speak on P.A. systems in fenced-off, like cages, on side streets, and I thought they were talking about the Olympics in China, but then I realized that they were actually talking about the protesters at our conventions.
TRACK: It’s not the same.  China is a Commie dictatorship--and here there were seventy-seven applications to speak--but not one single protester was given permission, and all those who applied were arrested before the games began. Way to go.
WILLOW: I heard that in St. Paul, even a mime got a permit to speak. And the people who did speak couldn’t be heard. I mean, what about the First Amendment? We learned about that in school.
TRACK: Yeah, well, it doesn’t apply to those anarchists on the opening day, with black cloth covering their faces, a few hundred of them, running around the streets, setting fires, throwing rocks, breaking windows, blocking traffic. It was the duty of the riot squad and the National Guard to stop those actions. Tear gas, pepper spray, rubber bullets, concussion grenades, whatever it took.
WILLOW: But what about the peaceful demonstrators?
TRACK: There were ten thousand demonstrators who were peaceful, and they were allowed to march against the war. All they had to do was follow the rules.  When their permit expired at 5 p.m., they still tried to march to the convention center, but the authorities had already blocked a couple of the bridges that led to the convention center. They blocked ’em with snowplows and gravel trucks, police barricades and plenty of manpower. I saw the protesters running toward one of those bridges, and they were being chased by police in riot gear and teargas masks, so then the protesters were stuck in the middle.  Isn’t that great?  
WILLOW: Ha-ha, the bridges to nowhere. [Track and Willow giggle wildly.] Y’know, I’m really gonna miss you when you go to Iraq.
TRACK: I’m gonna miss you too.  Anyway, the thing is, our guys had to be prepared, starting months before the convention, because there’s all kinds of front organizations out there that the FBI had to get infiltrated, like the environmentalists and vegetarians who pretend to be just innocent special-interest groups. Same with farmers, attorneys, medics, reporters--a journalist, Amy Goodman and her producers, plus a guy from Associated Press on the sidewalk in front of a building where there was a huge party given by lobbyists for legislators with a band, Hookers and Blow, not to be confused with a terrorist band, Rage Against the Machine, and also a bunch of bloggers and a whole video collective called I-Witness--some people had to be roughed-up and handcuffed and arrested for trying to interfere with law enforcement. Their computers and laptops and cameras and journals and diaries were seized. In some locations, even children had assault rifles pointed at their faces. In the military, this is all known as “anticipatory self-defense.”
WILLOW: That’s wicked.  So tell me, are you nervous about going to Iraq?
TRACK: [Stops pedaling and pulls up the left leg of his sweatpants, revealing a tattoo of Christ on his calf.] Not as long as He’s with me, and He will be, every moment, day and night.
WILLOW: [Bends down and kisses the tattoo] I really love Jesus. Whenever I close my eyes and pray, I don’t know what God looks like, but I always think of Jesus, because I know what He looks like....
*   *   *
[Bristol and Levi are sitting on the living-room sofa, holding hands.  He is wearing a T-shirt that says “Billabong.”]
BRISTOL: Here it is Friday night, and we can’t even go out anywhere, because everybody points at us and stares at us and talks about us. It makes me feel like a real freak.
LEVI: How do you think I feel? All I ever wanted to do is play hockey and hang out with the guys and party like mad and get stoned out of my gourd and just chill out. I don’t give a shit about politics. If we didn’t get drunk and screw in the tent outside that party, I never woulda had to go to that fuckin’ Republican convention with your parents, who hate my ass off but they pretend we’re one big happy family.
BRISTOL: Oh, c’mon, if my mother gets elected--like I wasn’t planning to live in Washington, D.C.-- but it’ll be fun. Please, don’t be such a grouch. 
LEVI: You saw my MySpace page. I mean everybody’s seen it.  “I’m a fuckin’ redneck who likes to snowboard and ride dirt bikes.” I’m too young to get married. I’m trapped. I was just minding my own business, and suddenly my whole fuckin’ life is destroyed.
BRISTOL: Look, I don’t wanna argue with you any more. Let’s just see what’s on TV.
[Levi reaches for the remote control and clicks on the TV.]
DAVID LETTERMAN: Here’s good news, ladies and gentlemen.  The Palin family crisis has been solved now, and today the baby is being adopted by Angelina Jolie.
LEVI: Boy, I sure wish that was true. I never wanted to have kids.
BRISTOL: Please, this is not exactly a picnic for me. Let’s just see what else is on.
[Click!]
JAY LENO: Governor Palin announced that her seventeen-year-old unmarried daughter is five months pregnant. And you thought John Edwards was in trouble before. Now he’s really done it.
[Click!]
CONAN O’BRIEN: Sarah Palin said, “We should never have introduced her to John Edwards.”
[Click!]
CRAIG FERGUSON: I don’t think that a young lady getting pregnant should even be news. Unless John Edwards is the father. Then that is kinda news.
[Click!]
BILL MAHER: Palin has five children including an infant that has Downs syndrome. She had it when she was forty-three years old. And it looks a lot like John Edwards.
[Levi reaches for the remote control and clicks off the TV.]
LEVI: That’s really great, Bristol. John Edwards fucked you and your mother . . .
*   *   *
[Sarah is sitting at her computer when there is a knock on her office door.]
SARAH: Come in. [Willow opens the door, walks in and sits down.]  I’m just looking over my stump speech here. It keeps changing.
WILLOW: Mom, I have to talk to you.
SARAH: Yes, dear, what’s on your mind?
WILLOW: [Pausing] I’m . . . pregnant.
SARAH: Very funny.
WILLOW: Mom, I’m not kidding.
SARAH: Willow, you’re only fourteen years old! How could you be pregnant? Are you sure?
WILLOW: I did the test three different times. They all said “Positive.”  I can feel changes in my body.
SARAH: This is horrible. I mean wonderful, of course. God always has a plan. Who’s the father?
WILLOW: [Pausing] It’s . . . Track.
SARAH: What! How can that be? He’s your brother! You had sex with your brother?!
WILLOW: I still don’t understand how I got pregnant. He borrowed a condom from Dad’s sock drawer.
SARAH: I’m shocked beyond belief. When did this happen?
WILLOW: Let’s see, the first time was--
SARAH: The first time! Did he force himself on you?
WILLOW: Well, not really. It was voluntary.
SARAH: Oh my God!  What are we gonna do?  Oh my God!  I’m hysterical!  Oh my God!
*   *   *
[Todd is finishing up an interview with a beautiful young woman in his office. He tries unsuccessfully to avert his eyes from her cleavage.]
TODD: Well, your resume’ is solid--I’m totally impressed with your experience as a nanny--you have excellent references, you have a very enthusiastic personality, and I must admit, of all the women I’ve been interviewing, you’re not only the most qualified, you’re also the most attractive, if you don’t mind my saying so.
NANNY: Oh, I don’t mind at all, Mr. Palin. As a matter of fact, the feeling is mutual.
TODD: Please, call me Todd.
NANNY: Todd. Such a nice masculine name. [Standing] When would you like me to start?
TODD: I’ll have to figure that out with Sarah when she returns.  [Standing]  She’s meeting with Senator McCain today.  
NANNY: [Slowly moving toward him] Then just be sure to call me whenever you know.
TODD: [Slowly moving toward her] All right, I will.
NANNY: You have my number.
TODD: And you have my number.
NANNY: I certainly do.
TODD: [They are standing just a few inches from each other.] The kids are really gonna love you.  [Gradually they embrace, He moves to kiss her on the cheek. She turns her head so that their lips touch, leading to a passionate kiss.]
NANNY: [Mumbling between kisses] I feel like Jude Law’s babysitter.
TODD: [Mumbling between kisses] Who’s Jude Law?
NANNY: [Unbuttoning his shirt] He’s a British actor who made love with his girlfriend Sienna Miller’s babysitter on the billiards table.
TODD: [Unbuttoning her blouse] I don’t have a billiards table, but I do have a cue-stick.
NANNY: [Unbuckling his belt] Oh, I know you do, I can feel it . . .
*   *   *
[Sarah is pacing back and forth at her meeting with John McCain.]
McCAIN: Calm down, Sarah, have a seat, take it easy.
SARAH: [Sitting down] I’m still in a state of shock. My heart is beating so fast. I have terminal dry mouth. This is awful.
McCAIN: Let’s review the situation. Your seventeen-year-old daughter is pregnant. And your nineteen-year-old son is the father. It was consensual sex. Nevertheless, that’s statutory rape. I think we have only two options. One, she gets an abortion.
SARAH: I’m sorry, that’s off the table. I mean it’s out of the question.
McCAIN: Look, I realize that you’re against abortion based on your religious principles, even in the case of rape or incest. And in this case it’s both. But you’re not against abortion if the life of the mother is endangered. That could be our exit strategy. There’s a blind doctor in Washington who performs the safest possible abortion, and he wouldn’t even know who the patient is.
SARAH: Absolutely not. Here’s what I thought about on the plane. Of course, we will never identify Track as the father--I’m so angry I found myself hoping that he would get killed in Iraq, and that would be perceived as such a heartbreaking patriotic sacrifice--I wanted to offer a bounty for the delivery of Track's severed left calf with the Jesus tattoo, and yet I don’t want him to be indicted and sent to prison for who knows how many years. What we can do is to place the full blame on a stranger who was wearing a stocking over his face so that there will be no description except for that detail. Willow didn’t report it because she didn’t have enough cash to pay for a rape kit, and she felt afraid to tell me until she was sure that she was pregnant. But she will be giving birth to that baby. And when Track returns home from Iraq, he will help raise that child, pretending he’s only the uncle, which he actually will be. We could even announce Willow’s pregnancy as an October surprise. That would endear our Christian conservative base to us even more than now, and it could provide a surge--excuse the expression--to our popularity.  
McCAIN: Just because it worked in Bristol’s case, that doesn’t mean it will also work in Willow’s case. I hadn’t quite considered an announcement like this as a possible October surprise. I thought we might capture Osama bin Laden. Or that there could be impeachment and conviction of Bush and Cheney, but it would leave Nancy Pelosi as the new president, and we surely don’t want that. Maybe Obama would be assassinated, then there would be rioting all over the country, there would be martial law, the election would be canceled, and the Bush administration would remain in power. Or the October surprise could be dropping bombs on Pakistan. Or an air strike on Iran. Even if Israel did that, it would be with U.S. aid and approval. Also, there’s a scenario floating around that Joe Biden will drop out of the race in deference to Hillary as Obama’s vice-presidential running mate replacing Biden. That would really ruin our chances of winning.
PALIN: So tell me what the second option is.
McCAIN: That you drop out of the race. It’s the honorable thing to do.
PALIN: What are you gonna do, kick me off the island? Let’s face it, John, if I dropped out, you’d lose the election for sure, and you know it. You need to show me off during this campaign. I’m your biggest asset. I wanted to go on my own Palin Talk Express tour, but no, your neocon friends--they discovered me a year before you and I met--and now they’re so afraid I can’t function without their guidance. They’re like a mad beehive, spouting campaign buzz words at me. But I will never drop out of this race. I would sooner give to the media my tape of our one-night stand in my hotel room at the governors’ conference last February.
McCAIN: If you were to do that, I would release my tape of this whole conversation. So we’re just canceling each other out with such tactics. But that’s what I like about you. You’re such a feisty lady. Y’know, Sarah, if we get elected, I was hoping that our little tryst in Washington could happen again, perhaps this time in the Oval Office.
PALIN: Thanks but no thanks.
McCAIN: I remember you were so pregnant then.
PALIN: And I remember exactly what you said. “Let me baptize your fetus with some maverick juice.” How romantic. But you were lucky I was already pregnant, because it would not have happened otherwise, since, as you know, I’m against birth control. Raising children is performing a task that is from God. And I believe that life begins before conception.
McCAIN: You and the Bush administration. They also consider birth control to be a form of abortion. The Health and Human Services Department is secretly trying to redefine contraception--the Pill, IUDs, you name it—redefine as abortion. So this federal agency could eliminate many state laws. Pharmacists could refuse to supply women with birth control devices. Insurance companies wouldn’t cover contraception. Rape victims wouldn’t have access to the morning-after pill. You have your beliefs and I respect them, but I’m trying to distance myself from George Bush.
PALIN: Except for his speechwriters.
McCAIN: Oh, you’re referring to Matthew Scully and your acceptance speech at the convention. He’s great. By the way, he asked me to pass on a line to you for the stump speech when you’re talking about Obama: “Charlie Manson was a community organizer!”
PALIN: That will definitely get a good response.  We need as many applause lines as we can muster up. Maybe every sentence should get a reaction. Clapping, laughter, cheers. The audiences always get off on that. They feel high and they associate it with us.
McCAIN: Fine, at least we’re back on the same page again. Now promise that if you do become vice president you won’t arrange for me to be killed by the grace of your powerful buddies in Alaska so that you can then become president.
PALIN: Okay, I promise not to have you killed--unless you decide to run for a second term. [They both chortle nervously.]
*   *   *
[The TV set is on, but nobody is watching. A commercial is playing.]
VOICEOVER BY ALEC BALDWIN: [Images of Sarah Palin waving to huge, screaming crowds, signing autographs and being surrounded by paparazzi.] She’s the biggest celebrity in the world. [Video footage of Michael Jackson and Michael Richards are superimposed as if they are in the company of Sarah.] But is she ready to lead? John McCain knows full well she isn’t. With the energy shortage looming, McCain says no to windmills and solar power. And with the economic crisis already upon us, McCain says he’ll cut taxes by lowering payments for Social Security and Medicare. More suffering, increased drilling. That’s the real McCain.
[The face of Joe Biden fills the screen.}
VOICEOVER BY JOE BIDEN: I’m Joe Biden and I approve this message. Let me just add that when one of John McCain’s top economic advisers, former Senator Phil Gramm, was quoted that the United States was only in a “mental recession” and had become “a nation of whiners,” he unintentionally revealed the massive disconnect between the citizens of this country and their representatives . . .
[A few minutes later, Biden is still talking, when Nanny walks into the room, cellphone to her ear, and shuts off the TV.]
NANNY: Yes, hello. Is this the National Enquirer? . . . Oh, good. I’d like to speak to a reporter, please . . . Thank you, I’ll hold . . .
[A split screen shows Nanny and the Reporter on split screens.]
REPORTER: Hello, what can I do for you?
NANNY: Yes, hello, I have a story that you might be interested in. I’ve been having an affair with, you know, the First Dude, and now it seems that I’m pregnant. What would the Enquirer pay for my story?
REPORTER: Do you have any proof that he’s the father?
NANNY: Actually, yes, I do have evidence--DNA, physical evidence, like in CSI--I saved what was left of his semen in the condoms.
REPORTER: But then how could you be pregnant?
NANNY: He told me that his wife makes tiny pinholes in the reservoir tips of his condoms [in Sarah’s voice] “in order to give all those teeny little spermies a fighting chance.”
REPORTER: Why doesn’t he just get a vasectomy?
NANNY: Sarah says that would be like cheating God . . .
[As the closing credits roll by, Britney Spears sings the program’s theme song, “Oops, I Did It Again.”]










                    SUBCULTURES





And Whose Little Monkey Are You?

Sometimes I think I’m dreaming when I read the news. But there are places where the inhabitants have never seen a magazine or a newspaper, and it is simply not a part of their psyche to dream about lines of type. In a spurt of generosity, the United States shipped surplus battery-operated TV sets across the sea to one group of islands in the Pacific Ocean, so that those natives could pass directly from a preliterate society to a post-literate society without having to read a single book in the process.
They watched in amazement as so-called psychic Uri Geller bent forks on the Merv Griffin show. The strange thing was that even though Geller accomplished this feat by trickery, there were young children back in America who hadn’t yet been taught about the self-fulfilling rules of 20th Century physics, and to their parents’ dismay, they were able to bend various kitchen utensils by means of sheer will power.
*   *   *
As more and more deadly conflicts around the world continue to escalate, more and more people are saying, “Boy, the shit’s really gonna hit the fan now.” That phrase, incidentally, did not come into the language until after there was electricity. People say that they are not referring to a lovely Japanese lithograph showing a kimono-clad woman whose long shiny black hair is twisted up into a bun, and who is coquettishly providing her own personal breeze with a colorful rice-paper fan. Then splat!—right in her porcelain-like face. So, no, it has to be an electric fan, which revolves so fast it protects you from the shit—or spreads it, depending which side you’re on—or what’s a fan for?
Meanwhile, even as all that shit is hitting all those fans, the laxative industry continues to blossom. New brand names are constantly competing in the open marketplace. Ex-Lax has even come out with a “milder” version for women—certainly an indication of rampant male chauvinism in their Research & Development section. What’s the implication of this trend? Do females have different digestive systems than males? Is it perfectly acceptable for macho men to have chocolate-covered sandpaper coursing through their intestinal  tracts?
And yet credit must also be given to those friendly folks at Ex-Lax. They were the very first sponsor on television to include a sign-language translation of a commercial—a long-overdue service for the constipated hearing-impaired. Indeed, this had been an early demand of the Deaf Liberation Front. You’ve probably seen their frontline members on the street and in airports, selling little cards with the sign-language alphabet. Some have been getting arrested for being deaf without a license. Naturally, the police recite their Miranda rights, shouting, “You have the right to remain silent!”
Anyway, this particular Ex-Lax commercial features a pleasant, matronly woman reminiscing through her family photo album while a young fellow in the corner of the screen ostensibly translates the message into sign language. Actually, he can say whatever he wants. Nobody monitors his translation. He can indulge in private jokes for all the deaf viewers and only they will know.
The matronly woman in the Ex-Lax commercial says: “Thank God my family is normal.” The young fellow shifts the emphasis slightly in his translation: “Thank God her family is normal.” She continues: “Of course, once in a while somebody in our family will be troubled by irregularity.” He translates: “No shit.” She concludes: “So then we do what we’ve done in our family for generations—we turn to an old friend, Ex-Lax.” He translates: “Jimmy Hoffa knows too much.”
And while the hearing-impaired at home giggle at this mistranslation, all over the globe the shit continues to hit the fans.
*   *   *
These are rough times, but it’s extremely important to develop a sense of optimism. The Bulletin of Atomic Scientists periodically updates a clock on their cover to indicate how close we’re moving toward nuclear war. Recently they moved it from four minutes to midnight to three minutes to midnight, with midnight representing total annihilation. I don’t know exactly what their time scale is—whether one minute represents a month or a year or a decade—but, whichever, they’re saying that we are all now only three minutes away from the ultimate holocaust.
That’s the bad news.
The good news is that atomic scientists are just as fucked-up as the rest of us. They overeat, they forget to floss, they don’t have time for serial orgasms, or they suffer from premature ejaculations, and they set their clocks fifteen minutes ahead so that if they need to mail a letter by six o’clock and their clock says it’s ten after six, it means they still have five minutes to get to the mailbox. So that clock on the cover of the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists is fifteen minutes fast. We don’t have just three minutes till doomsday; we have eighteen minutes.
*   *   *
Life remains peaceful on a certain island off the coast of Japan. Here, humans and animals live in peace and harmony.
There are monkeys who for eons have subsisted entirely on sweet potatoes. They would pick the sweet potatoes right out of the dirt in which they grow—eating them, dirt and all. This is the way they have always done it. But one day, for whatever mysterious reason, an individual young female monkey carried her sweet potato to the shore, washed the dirt off in the ocean and proceeded to eat the sweet potato.
Who knows why it was this particular monkey? Any explanation will suffice. Maybe she was an Aries, with a strong pioneer spirit. At any rate, once this monkey broke the ice, other monkeys began to wash the dirt off their sweet potatoes before they ate them. But only the young monkeys.
It was not until the 100th young monkey had washed the dirt off a sweet potato in the ocean--not exactly the 100th; it could’ve been the 93rd or the 108th; the 100th monkey is merely a metaphor for reaching critical mass—but not until then did the first adult monkey wash the dirt off a sweet potato. This was a case of reverse generational influence.
And then other adult monkeys started to imitate this behavior. Washing the dirt off sweet potatoes even began to occur on adjoining islands, indicating that there was some kind of psychic communication in the air.
Now, how can this living New Age parable be applied to human behavior? Well, whatever you do personally to help further the cause of justice and the pursuit of ecstasy, even though you might get discouraged, you must always remember that you might be the one who turns the tide—you have to act as though you are the 100th monkey—and this gives us reason to hope.
That’s the good news.
The bad news is, those monkeys needed that dirt in their diet for roughage. So now there were all these monkeys on this island who weren’t able to shit.
But it just so happened that this was one of the islands where we shipped our surplus TV sets. Across the island, monkeys were gathered around those TV sets, all watching a program that was sponsored by Ex-Lax. Moreover, here was that commercial with the sign-language translation. And, fortuitously enough, these monkeys had relatives trained at Stanford University, where they learned how to communicate in sign language, and had been returned to the island to teach others of their species how to sign.
That’s the good news.
The bad news is that this was the Ex-Lax commercial where the brand name of the product was not translated. The message in sign language was “Jimmy Hoffa knows too much.” These monkeys—serving as shock troops of the Deaf Liberation Front—took that private joke to be their marching orders. So, even though you may have heard the propaganda that Hoffa was killed because he was prepared to speak out about the alliance between military intelligence and organized crime, the truth is that he was eaten to death by hordes of constipated monkeys.
The good news is, they washed the dirt off him first.
*   *   *
It is several years later now. Things have returned to normalcy.
The monkeys on those islands off the coast of Japan still watch TV, but they no longer wash the dirt off their sweet potatoes, and they are just as regular in their defecation as they used to be.
But in America, those children who once bent kitchen utensils to the dismay of their parents have grown up. One such young man now works on the assembly line in a missile factory, and he is able to bend certain working parts out of shape through the use of sheer will power. Soon others will follow suit. Already the intelligence agencies are training their operatives in methods to counteract this kind of psychic sabotage.
The Mime and the Pacer

I found myself walking around and around in a counter-clockwise circle on the stage of the Wallenboyd Theater in downtown Los Angeles, just as a young man known as the Pacer does for several hours every day, always in the same direction, at the exact same spot in the mididle of the boardwalk in Venice Beach. He is an inspiration to me and I sometimes talk about him in my performances.
The boardwalk in Venice is both literally and figuratively on the edge of this country. T-shirts are the hieroglyphics of our time. Here, a grungy wino, who needed a shave long before Don Johnson made stubble fashionable, is wearing a T-shirt that says “Yes, I Am a Model.” There, a nerdy tourist is trying not to let the pizza drip on his T-shirt that says “I Choked Linda Lovelace” (the porn star of Deep Throat).
The boardwalk resembles one of those double-page-spread montages in a children’s book showing many different modes of transportation being used simultaneously. Airplanes fly by, trailing printed messages such as “The New Dating Game Wants You,” and “Scientology, Give Us Our Money Back,” while below, roller-skaters and skate-boarders mingle with cops riding bicycles and Hare Krishnas preparing for their annual parade featuring an elephant nourished entirely on trail mix.
A lone Jesus freak walks along and yells at them—“Antichrist! Antichrist! Antichrist!”—trying to drown out their chant. “Repent, Krishna! People are starving in India every day because these foolish Krishnas refuse to eat the cow! Eat the cow and believe in Jesus Christ! Repent, Krishna!”
You can buy all types of stuff along the boardwalk—rainbow sunglasses and fake Rolex watches and falafel-shaped yo-yo’s. “But,” complains a flower vendor who pays $600 a month for a ten-by-two-foot space, “rent will be going up to $800 and then to $1200 by summer. Venice will eventually be inhabited by a bunch of wealthy lot owners and a population of slaves who work for them.”
However, the performers pay no rent, dependent on voluntary donations. There is a poet who speaks professional gibberish; an artist who draws on the ground with colored chalk; a fellow who juggles an electric chainsaw, a bowling ball, and an apple, for which strangers put money in his hat because they’re grateful to God that they don’t have to do such a bizarre thing to earn a living.
There is a woman who plays the violin while standing on her head. And a man who has a table covered with wine glasses of different sizes filled to varying heights with water, and he plays this musical instrument by rubbing his fingers around the tops of those wine glasses. Audiences gather spontaneously to here his rendition of a Mozart sonata or a ragtime melody or the theme from Chariots of Fire.
There are breakdancers who bring their own personal linoleum-floor sections, and a jogger who jumps hurdles over the endless row of garbage cans lined along the boardwalk. He has to avoid one garbage can because a homeless person is foraging for lunch.
If I had to choose my favorite moment on the boardwalk, it would have to be the time a Rastafarian yogi was standing on the very top of a wooden chair, preparing to jump barefoot onto a pile of freshly broken bottles. “This is serious shit,” he reminded the large semicircle of onlookers. And then, during the anticipatory silence, along came that Jesus freak. Upon seeing this crowd, he edged his way in. Now the Rastafarian yogi was poised upon that unseen edge between “Look before you leap” and “He who hesitates is lost.” Suddenly the Jesus freak called out, “Hey, wait, before you commit suicide there, how do you feel about abortion?”
*   *   *
In front of the Sidewalk Café on the boardwalk, the Mime, a black man wearing white gloves along with a tuxedo and top hat, just stands still—often for hours. He is listening to a stereo headset. One might think he was playing music to counteract the boredom, but it’s really a tape loop reminding him, “Don’t move, stay still, it doesn’t matter if your back itches, people are paying you not to scratch . . . ”
Passersby do indeed put cash in the cardboard box at his feet after they have gaped at him long enough to get their money’s worth. Standing still is his job. People pay him not to move. When he goes to the Unemployment office, a clerk asks, “Did you look for work this week?” He answers simply, “Yes, I stood on the corner of Hollywood and Vine, and then I stood on the corner of Beverly Boulevard and Sierra Bonita, and then I stood . . . ”
In contrast to the Mime is the Pacer, who intrigues me most. He doesn’t call himself the Pacer. He may not even know that others do. But the circle he walks around and around in is his turf. Even an occasional police car respects the force field he creates, and the cops drive around him.
Obviously he originally started this strange stint as a matter of choice. “I think I’ll walk around in circles on the boardwalk today.” And the next day. And the next. But somewhere along the way, walking around in circles became a compulsion, and it started doing him. When you play a role long enough, the role can begin to play you if you’re not careful.
I’ve been out at six o’clock in the morning and there was the Pacer walking in circles. I’ve been out at six o’clock in the evening and there was the Pacer walking in circles. He does stop to eat—which indicates that at some level he is still acting voluntarily. He walks in a straight line to a greasy-spoon diner nearby on the boardwalk and sits at the counter, but he doe not twirl on his stool, nor stir his coffee, nor roll his eyes.
Once he talked about his obsessive activity: “I’m in control of walking, but out of control too. When I walk I’m in a trance. If I slow down at night I see colors. I see millions of faces—some with Pilgrim hats, some with cowboy hats—modern faces and prehistoric faces.”
There must be some kind of spiritual path that the sweating, red-faced Pacer keeps treading, even if it’s circular--some unique relationship with the universe by which he justifies his existence to himself. Everybody has to feel they’re making some contribution to society, if only to maintain self-esteem. Even those who work in a missile factory must rationalize, “Well, the United States needs to have a strong defense.”
It’s an absurd age we live in. Future Shock is already an outdated book. Children whose shoes stay on their feet by the grace of Velcro may never experience the thrill of tying their shoelaces in the dark. They have developed a fast-food approach to perceiving time because all they know is digital clocks. Time goes click, click, and if the power goes off they think that 12:00-12:00-12:00 is appliance language for “Help! Help! Help! Turn me back to the right time! Help! Help! Help!”
Kids have lost that certain sense of time in motion, going around and around, eternally. That concept is endangered, just like the whooping crane. But we can all be grateful to the Pacer, for he is the Keeper of the Counter-Clockwise. That is his spiritual calling. But the Pacer doesn’t have a cardboard box for people to drop money into—he walks around in circles out of the goodness of his heart.
*   *   *
The Mime and the Pacer provide a perfect metaphor for the two-party system in America. The Republicans are like the Mime, standing absolutely still while the world passes them by—Iran, Iraq, Nicaragua, El Salvador—and they get paid for it, just like the Mime. The Democrats are like the Pacer, walking around in circles while the world passes them by—Israel, Libya, Cuba, Honduras—and they don’t get paid for it, just like the Pacer.
But recently the Pacer did something that hurled such a comparison right into the metaphor graveyard, along with “That’s like bringing coals to Newcastle” (for Newcastle finally did run out of coal) and “Good as gold” (since the government now prints money without the benefit of the gold standard). The Pacer had put a cardboard box down on the ground and started walking around it. And now people began giving him money.
By the mere presence of that cardboard box, the Pacer had transformed his personal perversion into a marketable talent. Just like so many of us. And I could no longer feel superior to him. He was not just some nut walking in circles. Now he was earning a living.
I still “do” the Pacer in my act, but with increased respect. “His job is no less dignified than anything we do,” I tell the audience. “He works hard all day, and then, just like you and me, he goes home and unwinds.” And I proceed to walk around and around in a circle onstage, only now in a clockwise direction.



Johnnie Cochran Meets Dr. Hip

Tragedy and absurdity were two sides of the same coin: On one side, O.J. Simpson’s “suicide” note with a smiley face in the O of his signature; on the other side, the woman who pinched Simpson lawyer Robert Shapiro’s ass because “I wanted to be part of history.” And somewhere along the ridge of that coin was Simpson himself, walking into the courtroom humming the melody of “Touch Me” from the Broadway hit Cats and explaining to reporters that he was thinking about his children.
That was at Simpson’s criminal trial. Shortly before his civil trial began in 1997, I met his lead attorney, Johnnie Cochran. He was the guest of honor and luncheon speaker at a national convention of criminal defense attorneys held in a huge banquet hall at a hotel in Santa Monica. No media people were allowed entry.
One of the attendees was Dr. Eugene Schoenfeld, also known as Dr. Hip from his days as a syndicated columnist for the underground press. He now testifies occasionally as an expert witness, and was at this event for that reason. My wife Nancy and I were his guests.
Cochran’s speech reassured the enthusiastic audience: “In the Simpson matter, we just did what you do every day”—that is, defend their clients by any means necessary and chalk up a bunch of billable hours in the process—and he got a standing ovation.
In the afterglow of his speech, colleagues came up to Cochran to shake his hand and get in a little banter. One well-wisher shared this joke: “If [prosecutor] Chris Darden spent as much time trying to nail O.J. Simpson as he did trying to nail [prosecutor] Marcia Clark, he might’ve won the case.” The other defense attorneys within hearing distance all had a good laugh at that one.
Dr. Schoenfeld joined the line of lawyers waiting to have photos taken of themselves standing alongside Cochran.  When it was Schoenfeld’s turn, Nancy focused her camera. For this particular occasion, Schoenfeld had stashed a hand-printed card underneath the standard, plastic-encased ID lapel card. As in the previous poses, Cochran and Schoenfeld put their arms around each other, although they were looking, not at each other, but straight ahead and smiling at the camera.
Thus, Cochran didn’t notice how, just before Nancy snapped their picture, Schoenfeld subtly managed to pull away the ID card and reveal the hand-printed card, which declared, in large printed letters, “O.J. DID IT!” I published that photo on the front cover of The Realist that spring. It was the result of a good old-fashioned guerrilla action.

Jealousy At the Swingers Convention

The 24th annual Lifestyles Couples Convention has filled three hotels in Palm Springs, California. The Convention Center is connected to one of them, the Wyndham, which surrounds a large outdoor pool and patio populated by couples busy socializing in 116-degree dry heat. Women and men alike are wearing thongs. From afar they appear like so many eyeless smiley faces among the bathing suits. The law that Sonny Bono signed when he was mayor, banning thongs in public, does not apply to this event, or, for that matter, to Cher.
The convention is for couples only. Except for me. I’ve been hired to perform stand-up comedy at their Friday luncheon, and I’m here alone. On the small, propellor plane from Los Angeles to Palm Springs, the right side consists of two-seat rows, occupied entirely by couples on their way to the convention—horny with the expectation of getting laid by the spouse of a stranger, perhaps sitting in front of or behind them—and the left side of the plane consists of one-seat rows, occupied entirely by me. I’m afraid that the plane might tip over upon trying to land.
At the Convention Center, even the plastic-encased lapel nametags are coupled off: “Ken and Barbie” on his, “Barbie and Ken” on hers. Not all the couples are paired off in real lie, though. One person can simply bring along another—known in swinger circles as a “ticket” for gender balance—in order to get into the convention. So everybody has entered two by two, and I feel like a unicorn stowaway on Noah’s Ark, surreptitiously balancing on the cusp of love and lust.
There are 3,000 participants at this convention, mostly upper-middle-class, in their 30s, 40s and 50s. They consider people in the outside world to be “straight,” even though one would ordinarily consider them straight. I mean there are suburban soccer moms here, openly celebrating their secret lifestyle at an oasis of supportiveness. There’s a man in a suit with a flesh-colored penis necktie, another wearing a T-shirt declaring “I’m Not Going Bald, I’m Getting More Head,” and another dressed only in a leather jockstrap, who recognizes me and introduces himself.
“I’d give you my card,” he says, “but I have no place to keep them.”
Inside the 100,000 square-foot Convention Center, the Exhibit Hall has been turned into an “Adult Marketplace,” buzzing with commercial activity. I overhear one shopper’s complaint: “But we’ve already spent $400.” There’s a multitude of merchandise on display—pornographic videos, naughty lingerie, fetish paraphernalia, edible lotions—plus booths galore. At the Golden Nipples booth, women are cheerfully having exact duplicates of their nipples created in sterling silver or 14-karat gold, which can be used as pendants, key fobs, money clips or—yes, of course—nipple covers. At the Penimax booth, an Asian vendor is selling disposable cock rings, which, he promises, will maintain my erection even after I ejaculate.
There are several booths dedicated to booking vacations especially designed for swingers, at nude beaches, clothing-optional resorts and ocean cruises. I follow around an elderly woman who is busy picking up brochures at every such booth. It seems incongruous, but I try not to indulge in stereotypes. Finally I engage her in a conversation, and she explains that her boss told her to get as much material as she could, because he owns some property surrounded by government land, and he wants to start a new business.
At the Erotic Massage Wear table, a woman uses my arm to demonstrate a device that turns her fingertip into a vibrator, not intended for nose picking. Then she puts Jergen’s Lotion on my right hand, dons a pair of Love Mitts—made of vinyl with little nubs all over—and proceeds to massage my hand while on the VCR there’s a tape of a woman wearing Love Mitts and massaging a man’s lubricated penis. This is a bizarre mixed-media sensation. Although I don’t get a hard-on, the lobes of my brain seem to fuse, and for the next few hours my left hand persists in feeling neglected.
Checking out the functional furniture, I merely eavesdrop on a (fully clothed) couple testing out the “rocking torso feature” on a Love Table, but I actually climb into the Love Swing, assuming a position ordinarily assumed by a woman while the man stands up, crotch to crotch. My body is suspended half upside-down in mid-air with legs spread and feet up in stirrups. I’m feeling mighty vulnerable. As I hang there, the inventor hands me my tape recorder, then proceeds to show me how “the woman can place the man’s penis on her G-spot by moving her legs from a position of being out front like this to being in the fetal position” and how “the man, instead of just going in and out like that, he can make his penis a joystick, so every step he takes is a movement inside of her, more like a dance step.” He guarantees, “You’ll never use a bed again.”
Next I inspect the Bungee Sexperience—a harness designed by a company that makes bungee cords—it bounces in the air, so the “rider” can enjoy weightless sex in a variety of positions. I ask the woman demonstrating this how many hours a day she bounces up and down. “At an event like this,” she responds, without missing a bounce, “I’d say eight to twelve hours.” She tells me that her circulation is excellent, and that her 18-year-old son refers to the contraption as a “bungee humper.” In addition to bouncing, it can also create “the illusion of bondage, yet the person can actually be comfortable while restrained.”
The Auto Erotic Chair, however, provides real bondage. It’s equipped with leather restraints and panic snaps for arms and legs, and comes complete with a power box, pneumatically operated anal and vaginal plugs. “Our power source unit is designed to stimulate nerve fibers throughout the genital areas by delivering controllable electro-pulse energy through conductive electrodes on our sex toys. Our precision-engineered technology gives you safe and pleasurable electric play.” So, for example, in the Electro-Flex Penile Ring/Anal Plug Configuration, “A single conductor butt plug is used in conjunction with a single conductive cock ring to complete the circuit. With a single conductive cock ring, one side of a double conductive butt plug can be used to stimulate either the prostate or the sphincter.”
If you’d prefer something, well, less electric, there’s always the Crystal Wand, a 10-inch-long, S-shaped co-ed tool, hand-carved from pure crystal-clear acrylic, that doubles simultaneously as a G-spot stimulator and prostate massager. I’m reminded of a swing party I heard about, one that took place at the Whispers Club in Michigan. Couples removed from the refrigerator 12-inch summer sausages and cucumbers that the hostess had planned to use for food that evening. When she walked into the “party room,” she couldn’t help but notice that although the food was being consumed, it was not exactly in the fashion she had originally envisioned. Instead, the sausages and cucumbers were being utilized as organic sex toys.
As I continue to wander around the Adult Marketplace, I realize that the name of the game is penetration. All paths lead to penetration. But I’m not referring to penetration of the sexual kind, although that’s an implicit goal—pick an orifice, any orifice, and there’s always a corresponding appendage or gadget that can fulfill its desire for penetration—no, I’m talking about penetration of the market. There’s lots of money to be made here. The persistent question is, how can I penetrate this market? Maybe I could come up with a combination FM radio and vibrating dildo.
*   *   *
I’m beginning to feel like I’m experiencing an alien encounter, only I’m the alien here. Nevertheless, I’m aware that swingers and comedians do have something in common. We both like to have a good opening line. As a performer, I always try to slant my opening line toward a particular audience.
My opening line at the World Hemp Expo was, “Last night, for the first time in my life, I used a hemp condom.” My opening line at a Skeptics Conference, attended by the Amazing Randi and the Amazing Kreskin, was: “The is the first conference I’ve been to where there were two people with the same first name of Amazing—but the Amazing Randi was born with that name, it’s on his birth certificate, whereas the Amazing Kreskin changed his name for showbiz--his real name is the Obnoxious Kreskin.” And my opening line at a luncheon during the Los Angeles County Bar Association conference was, “I’d like to begin with a moment of silence, so that you can think about your client’s problem, and then you can make this a billable hour.”
Now I find myself in a lavish hotel suite, trying to crystallize an opening line while contemplating the bald spot on the back of my head, infinitely cloned in the mirrors of the hotel-room bathroom, actually the only place I ever get to see that bald spot as others do. This will be a serious opening line, since I have been told that, in the introduction to my performance, I will be presented with the Lifestyles Freedom Award. I decide that my opening line will then be, “I just want to say that freedom of expression existed long before the First Amendment.” Though it’s not my motivation, I realize that this opening line will undoubtedly please Robert McGinley, the bearded co-founder and president of the Lifestyles Organization.
“We hate government intervention in our lives,” he has assured me. “We hate censorship. We’re against laws that require helmets for cyclists. It’s good that a law was just passed allowing women to breastfeed in public, but we shouldn’t need permission from the government to do it.” He admits to being “libertarian, but not Libertarian Party.” He draws his philosophy from Jack London—“The proper function of man is to live, not to exist”—and, more specifically, his credo is “Adult sexuality is normal.” Dr. McGinley (he holds a Ph.D. in counseling psychology) tells me a riddle: “What do you call an Italian swinger?” I give up. The answer: “A swop.”
At the luncheon, it turns out that I will not be presented with the Freedom Award after all, and I have to come up immediately with a replacement opening line: “I’m delighted to be at the Lifestyles Convention—this is the first convention I’ve ever been to that was named after a condom.”
Indeed, condom consciousness (if not condom use) is present at the convention. In one workshop, “The ABC’s of Swinging,” condom etiquette is described as bringing “the right safety equipment, just as you would for scuba diving or parachuting.” Another presentation on “Safer Sex” covers new drug therapies for AIDS, information on other sexually transmitted diseases that are increasing among heterosexuals, and “things you should be doing to protect yourself.”
Originally, herpes had caused a certain panic in swinger circles. Some swing clubs closed, though private parties increased. But, paradoxically enough, with the advent of AIDS, new clubs opened, as if the disease were anti-climactic. Currently, there’s a surge of growth in this subculture—thanks to the Internet—with estimates ranging from 2,000 to three million participants. And, according to Dr. McGinley, “There’s been very little increase in condom use. It’s the woman’s choice.”
Nonetheless, at the Adult Marketplace, a woman in a black lace negligee roams around giving out free samples of condoms. There are also Crème Cookie Condoms for sale. They appear to be vanilla and chocolate Oreo-style cookies, individually wrapped in cellophane. I ask the vendor whether these are condoms that look like cookies, or cookies that look like condoms. She tells me that they are edible cookies, but each one has a condom inside.
“They’re only a dollar each,” she says, adding, as I edge away from her booth, “it’s a great joke.”
*   *   *
The Art Gallery at the convention Center, featuring the Lifestyles Convention’s 7th annual Sensual & Erotic Art Exhibition, almost didn’t happen. The state’s Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control had tried to prevent it from opening. When their authority was challenged, an ABC representative became an alchemist, transforming logic into absurdity. Legally, he said, you can’t even have sex in a hotel room which has a mini-bar. Sure, pal, just try to enforce that one.
Two days before the convention, the ACLU obtained a restraining order against ABC’s interference with the art exhibit. But ABC didn’t just give up and assume the fetal position in a Love Swing. Rather, the agency threatened to revoke the Wyndham Hotel’s liquor license if they allowed a special two-hour session, the convention’s traditional Evening of Caressive Intimacy, to take place in the Wyndham Ballroom on Friday as scheduled. This popular, closed-door, clothing-optional massage clinic, limited to the first 200 couples who sign up, would include the “human car wash,” involving, as one veteran swinger portrays it, “a lot of naked bodies and some serious rubbing.”
But the ABC regulations on Attire and Conduct—behavior “deemed contrary to public welfare and morals, and therefore no on-sale license shall be held at any premises where such conduct or acts are permitted”—includes this clause as a no-no: “To encourage or permit any person on the licensed premises to touch, caress or fondle the breasts, buttocks, anus or genitals of any other person.” The Wyndham chickens out, the massage clinic is canceled, the money is refunded, Lifestyles will sue the hotel for breach of contract, and next year’s convention will be held in Las Vegas in 1998.
A lawyer, standing on the border of cynicism, suggests, “Just buy a town in Mexico and buy off all the officials.”
In the previous year, 1996, the convention was held at the Town & Country Hotel in San Diego (for the fourth time), but two ABC officers claimed that they witnessed oral copulation in the convention hall, and the hotel’s liquor license was suspended for five days, hence Lifestyle’s move to Palm Springs this year. Lately, ABC has been spreading its particular brand of paranoia in Los Angeles, where the agency has raided gay, black and Latino bars in Los Angeles and in Hermosa Beach, where it has imposed restrictions on restaurants, requiring patio patrons to order food with their drinks, and forbidding customers to dance. Proprietors now play less upbeat music so that nobody will be tempted to dance. Those who can’t resist are asked to stop.
Incidentally, I find out that, instead of giving the Freedom Award to me, convention officials have decided to present ABC with an Anti-Freedom Award, but that notion gets lost somewhere in award limbo, along with my original unspoken opening line.
On Friday night, the massage clinic that doesn’t take place is followed by the Wild West Casino and Dance. One man comes attired in a sheriff’s outfit with a rubber penis drooping almost to the floor. A security guard tells him that he’ll have to check it. Fake knives, guns and bullets are acceptable, but not a fake sex organ. Another cowboy, with a real (unloaded) gun, is stopped by a security guard, but he resists, asserting in his best John Wayne manner, “This is an 1887 pistol, and I’m not about to check it.”
Several folks leave the dance at midnight to attend an unofficial 3rd annual spanking party. It ends at 3 a.m. with a bout of fist fucking. Dear Abby was right. One thing does lead to another.
*   *   *
I’ve been sampling many workshops at the Convention Center, and I notice that whenever I sit down on a chair next to a chair with someone else’s stuff on it, and the owner of that stuff is sitting on the other side of that chair, they always tap the top of their stuff in a subconscious gesture of territoriality. I also observe that a man with one leg (he walks with crutches) and his wife seem to arrive at every single workshop that I attend. Hmmmmm. I’m beginning to get suspicious. Obviously, I’ve seen too many spy movies.
A cartoon in the 1991 convention program showed two rooms where lectures were being given. The attendees in the room featuring “Do It Yourself Porn: Make Your Own XXX Movies” were overflowing into the corridor, while the room featuring “Socio-Political Ramifications of Current Trends in the Erosion of Civil Liberties” was empty, except for the baffled lecturer. It was a nice touch of self-deprecating humor, an exaggeration not too far from reality. At this ’97 convention, porn actress Nina Hartley’s “So You Want to Throw a Party: Recipes for a Successful Orgy” attracts ten times more audience than attorney Bob Burke’s “Sexual Politics: A Behind the Scenes Look.”
Unfortunately, one workshop, “The Undertone of Sexuality in the Star Trek Series,” has been canceled—“due,” someone added to the notice, “to Federation Regulations and Star Fleet Emergency Order 1007-932.” Deborah Warner, in describing her presentation, had written: “Paramount and its parent company, Viacom, have a vested interest in presenting the Trek franchise as a family-oriented show. To this end, they overtly depict the characters as asexual. Yet there exists erotic subtext. This has spawned a very large community of fans who create volumes of explicit erotica that is enjoying great popularity in print and an explosion of interest on the Internet.”
Now, outside the room where her workshop would have been, there is disappointment--“Oh, and she was gonna bring a Klingon”--and nostalgia--“Remember the time Quark and Deanna were French-kissing?”
That theme continues at “American Tantra: How to Worship Each Other in Bed,” This workshop—whose motto, “Orgasm long and prosper,” paraphrases Star Trek’s blessing, “Live long and prosper”—is conducted by Paul Ramana Das and Marilena Silbey. “Interspecies intercourse,” he muses. “This can’t be the only planet where love is made.” A writer for AVN (Adult Video News) has reviewed their Intimate Secrets of Sex & Spirit and confessed, “I’ve rarely laughed so hard in my life. No shit, this vid earns a pre-nomination for ‘most outrageous sex scene.’ Paul actually uses Marilena’s pussy as an echo chamber!”
