Page 20 of 31
104 J. Crim. L. & Criminology 59, *87

Grven this continuing active role that agents typically play during criminal prosecutions, we find the fact that the CVRA assigns
responsibility to them, together with the attorney for the Government, to ... accord them their rights under the CVRA to be
entirely consistent with our conclusion that those rights arise only once the Government has initiated criminal proceedings. !®?

But OLC's contorted position never explains why Congress found it necessary to break out three separate phases of the
criminal justice process: the detection, investigation, and prosecution of crime. If the congressional intent was simply to
cover, for example, FBI agents or EPA agents during the post-charging phase of a case, it could have simply omitted those
words from the CVRA. An FBI agent, for example, would be engaged in the prosecution of the case when assisting the victim
after the formal filing of charges. On OLC's reading of the statute, the words detection and investigation become
meaningless, contrary to the well-known canon of construction verba cum effectu sunt accipienda, which means that, if

possible, every word and every provision is to be given effect. 1°4

OLC also suggests that the most significant argument supporting pre-charging application of rights 1s the venue provision,
which allows [*88] crime victims to assert CVRA rights in the district court in which a defendant is being prosecuted for the
crime or, if no prosecution is underway, in the district court in the district in which the crime occurred. '®° The Department
contends that this language refers quite narrowly to the period of time between the filing of a complaint and the initiation of
formal charges. '°° In support of its position, the Department cites a Fourth Circuit case interpreting the Sixth Amendment
right to counsel, which held that a prosecution for purposes of that Amendment does not begin when a criminal complaint is
filed. 1°” In OLC's view, the venue provision's direction that victims should assert rights when no prosecution is underway
applies only to the limited time between when the Government files a complaint against a defendant and some later point when
the prosecution actually begins. OLC notes that the filing of a complaint triggers an initial appearance, where crime victims
can have important interests at stake, such as the right to be heard about a defendant's release on bail. OLC believes it is only to
such post-complaint, yet pre-indictment, proceedings (i.e., the initial appearance) that the venue provision's no-prosecution-
underway language covers.

As a preliminary matter, OLC's interpretation of the word prosecution in the Department's narrow construction of the venue
provision is a twisted one, at odds with the way that term is conventionally used. The filing of a complaint is typically viewed
as the start of a criminal prosecution. For example, the leading criminal procedure hornbook states that with the filing of the
complaint, the arrestee officially becomes a defendant' in a criminal prosecution. 168

Moreover, having specifically rejected the filing of the criminal complaint as the starting point for a prosecution within the
CVRA's venue provision, OLC refuses to consider the implications of its alterative starting point: the formal filing of an
indictment. OLC states that a prosecution of a felony must commence with the return of an indictment by a grand jury, citing
the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure. !® Yet OLC does not pause to recognize that, while felonies proceed by way of
indictment, misdemeanors can proceed not only by indictment but also by complaint. '7° The CVRA draws no distinction
between misdemeanor and [*89] felony offenses, broadly extending its protections to victims of any federal offense. !7!

Thus, under OLC's interpretation that the filing of a complaint does not trigger the CVRA, many victims who are entitled to

63 Td.

4 See, e.g., Reiter v. Sonotone Corp., 442 U.S. 330,339 (1979).

6 OLC CVRA Rights Memo, supra note 2, at 14 (quoting /8 U.S.C. § 3771(d)G) (2012)).
66 Td.

67 Id. (citing United States v. Alvarado, 440 F.3d 191, 200 (4th Cir. 2006)).

68 Wayne R. LaFave et al., Criminal Procedure § 1.2(g), at 11 (5th ed. 2009) (emphasis added).

6° OLC CVRA Rights Memo, supra note 2, at 14 (citing Fed. R. Crim. P.7(a)(1)).

70 Fed. R. Crim. P. 58(b)(1) (The trial of a misdemeanor may proceed on an indictment, information, or complaint. (emphasis added)).

11 See 18 U.S.C. § 3771 (e) (2012).
DAVID SCHOEN

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017623
