Kramper cannot conceal his respect for Bannon’s ability to move a crowd. He was greeted by “frenetic
applause” in his recent address before France’s National Front party, Kramper writes, demonstrating his
“impressive potential,” which the writer describes as “dangerous.”

In the mind of his audience, Bannon is something of a miracle-worker, Stamper notes, having “done the
impossible” by bringing Donald Trump into the White House.

The reason Bannon is dangerous, Kramper continues, is because he “lays out the political program of a
worldwide right: He has already conquered the USA; now Europe and then the whole world will follow.”

“You are part of a worldwide movement that is bigger than France, bigger than Italy, bigger than Hungary,
bigger than all that,” Bannon told French populists.

Bannon showed that he “dominates the mood against the ‘elites,’ the ‘establishment’ and the ‘perverse
system’ of greedy corporations and banks, and of course also against the press, which is led around ‘like a
dog on the Leash,’” Stamper writes.

And now he Mr. Bannon setting himself up as an instigator, if not an outright shepherd, of a movement that
crosses borders, languages and parties.

“Bannon is a master of apocalyptic rhetoric,” Stamper continues, effortlessly weaving together nationalist
interests with an international populist movement.

The American strategist showed his “true caliber” by expounding modern methods of political freedom
through blockchain technologies and cryptocurrencies, Stamper said, leaving many of his hearers behind.
Bannon has demonstrated that if the right wants to rule the future, “it must dominate modern themes and
rhetorically position them,” he added.

Aspiring to be far more than an uncle who tells stories to his nephews of how he won the fight for the White
House, Stamper writes, “Bannon wants to become the super godfather of the international right.”

Although Bannon often looks a bit disheveled, “he should not be underestimated,” the writer warns. Past
business partners attribute impressive “strategic foresight” to the eccentric tactician, saying he was often
“three or four steps ahead” of his opponents in business. Because of his phenomenal memory, his nickname
is “the encyclopedia,” Stamper notes with a certain reverence, and in his speeches he will spontaneously cite
“forgotten thinkers, known only to a handful of specialists.”

“Bannon brings with him exclusive knowledge of power from the very heart of power,” Stamper writes,
which he will bring to bear on Europe’s fragmented populist populism.

According to Stamper, Bannon has established his “European headquarters” in Italy, from where he intends
to galvanize European populists.

The Italian political situation is completely to his liking, Stamper declares, with a political landscape
“dominated by populists, right-wing ideologues and the political puppeteer Berlusconi.”

Follow Thomas D. Williams on Twitter

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025530
