183

technologies. It is unclear how the United Kingdom’s Brexit plan will affect the stated
desire of the UK government to ensure that critical technologies do not fall into Chinese
hands.

For years, the Chinese telecom behemoth Huawei has provided broadband gear and
mobile networks to its clients in Britain, which include British Telecom and Vodafone.
And for years, Huawei executives used their substantial business opportunities in
Britain as an example to counter allegations in the United States and other Western
countries that Huawei was linked to the People’s Liberation Army and therefore a
security risk. Now it seems that Britain’s government is having second thoughts.
A government report issued in July 2018 noted that technical and supply-chain
issues with equipment made by Huawei have exposed Britain’s telecom networks
to new security risks.” Earlier in 2018, Britain’s cybersecurity watchdog warned
telecommunications companies against dealing with the Chinese manufacturer
ZTE, citing “potential risks” to national security.”° ZTE was involved in widespread
sanctions-busting in deals with Iran and North Korea.

Another area of growing concern is nuclear power. China General Nuclear Power
(GNP)—the main player in China’s nuclear industry—is considering the purchase of a
49 percent stake in the United Kingdom’s existing nuclear plants.” The nuclear power
giant has already taken a 33.5 percent stake in the Hinkley Point C power station,
which is being built with French technology. China experts in the United Kingdom
such as Isabel Hilton, the CEO of Chinadialogue.net, have observed that in opening
up its vital infrastructure to China, the United Kingdom was without parallel in the
Western world. “No other OECD country has done this. This is strategic infrastructure,
and China is a partner but not an ally in the security sense... . You are making a 50-year
bet, not only that there will be no dispute between the UK and China but also no
dispute between China and one of the UK’s allies. It makes no strategic sense.”*?

Responses to Interference Activities

In addition to some limited pushback on Chinese economic moves, there are signs
that the United Kingdom is slowly understanding the challenge presented by Chinese
influence activities. UK media have continued to report pressure on journalists, the
media, civil society, and those involved in politics. This reporting has been somewhat
effective in correcting perceptions of the nature and functioning of Chinese governance.
The media have also focused attention on how China monitors and obstructs the work
of foreign reporters in China.

The political system has also begun to respond to some influence activities. At the
domestic level, a parliamentary inquiry on the United Kingdom’s relations with China,

Appendix 2

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020642
