South China Morning Post

Wednesday, April 25,2018 All

INSIGHT

Looming tech war

Robert Lawrence Kuhn says the ZTE showdown points to a misunderstanding over motives

s someone who works for US-

China understanding and

roots for US-China partner-

ships, I've been concerned, but

not worried, over what others
have called “a looming trade war”. I've not
worried because tariffs don’t work; they are
bluntinstruments ina globalised economy,
penalising American companies and
consumers as much as Chinese. Most
American experts oppose tariffs, and Presi-
dent Donald Trump likes to make bigdeals
after making big threats.

But I am now worried over what I will
call “a looming tech war”, because the
structural imperatives fo deeper.

‘As everyone who follows China knows,
the US Department of Commerce has im-
posed a denial of export privileges
against ZTE, China's second-largest tele-
communications equipment manufactur-
er, thus prohibiting US companies from
selling essential electronic components
and software to ZTE, a crippling sanction.

China has responded resolutely, with
actions that seem selected from expert sce-
nario planning, and with rhetoric, both in-
dignation and nationalistic bravado.

From China's perspective, according to
its Ministry of Commerce, “If the United
States attempts to curb China's develop-
ment... it miscalculates. The action targets
China; however, it will ultimately under-
mine the US itself,” affecting tens of thou-
sands of jobs and hundreds of related US
enterprises.

“Targeting technology is like throttling
the neck of the Chinese enterprises,”
wrote China Daily. “The ZTE case should
remind China's decision-makers of the
urgency to become self-sufficient in core
technologies.

President Xi Jinping has been prescient
about domestic control of core technol-
ogies, especially related to the internet and
more recently to artificial intelligence.
Since taking office in 2012, he has stressed
the “hidden risks” that come with core
technologies not being mastered domesti-
cally. He said, “Heavy dependence on im-
ported core technology is like building our
house on top of someone else's walls: no
matter how big and how beautiful it is, it
won't remain standing during a storm.”
Innovation is the first of Xi’s “five major
concepts of development”.

Beijing also claims
that the country itself
is a victim of
discriminatory
policies

From the US perspective, according to
its Department of Commerce, the prone
tion against ZTE is punishment for ZTE vio-
lating US sanctions against Iran and North
Korea, making false statements and ob-
structing justice, and then after reaching a
settlement agreement, violating it.

The United States claims it is not resist-
ing China's rise, but rather the country’s
unfair or illegal means to achieve it. The US
action enumerated four such practices as
rationale for imposing punitive tariffs, all
relating to technology or intellectual prop-
erty: foreign firms in China are required to

form joint ventures and transfer knowl-
onke. as well as license technology with
below-market terms and conditions, while
the state supports Chinese enterprises in
acquiring foreign hi-tech assets, and sanc-
tions commercial cyber theft.

President Trump is wildly unpopular
among American elites, especially among
policy experts, who do notneed much ofan
iticise him—note the fusillade of
attacks on Trump’s tariffs. But these elites
are not criticising Trump on US moves to
counter what they, with unusual consen-
sus, perceive to be China's unfair policies,
and in some cases unlawful programmes,
to becomeaworldleaderin state-of-the-art
technologies, especially AI, information
technology, robotics, advanced manufact-
uring, new energy vehicles, aviation and
biotechnology.

China claims that itis still a developing
country, so different rules apply, a founda-
tional principle of the World Trade Organ-
isation. Beijing also claims that the country
itself is a victim of discriminatory policies
restricting its imports of hi-tech products.

Of course, China had to respond with
appropriate actions as well as confident
words, imposing heavy tariffs on US
sorghum and signalling that additional
agricultural tariffs were at the ready, along
with barely veiled threats against US com-
panies operating in China.

Here's my fear. While I have argued that
most mainstream American experts are not
motivated to impede China's rise, as many
in China believe, I can no longer make that
argument persuasive.

In the US, there has been a dark turn
among experts that US policy towards
China, calibrated over four decades to
shepherd China's rise, has failed: China,

they have come to believe, has become a
competitor and may become an adversary,
and that US relations with China must now
be managed as with an emergent adver-
sary, not as with a developing partner.

In China, nationalistic voices are on the
rise, castigating the US for its self-serving
motivation to impede China's rise, and call-
ing for China to Become more self-reliant,
more rapidly, especially in world-class
semiconductors, so that the country would
not be vulnerable to US “blackmail”.

Welcome to the unhappy world of self-
fulfilling prophecy, where the actions of
each side in response to a perceived threat
from the other side increases the likelihood
of that threat morphing from theoretical to
actual.

To both sides, I offer two pieces of
advice. First, take a breath and a fresh look,
because the road on which you are travel-
ling will not lead toa happy place.

Second, contemplate why the otherside
is misinterpreting your actions. To my
American friends, what makes China think
the US is resisting its rise? To my Chinese
friends, what makes the US think that
China is a competitor and may become an
adversary?

Projecting malevolent motives and see-
ing sinister conspiracies is the easy way out.
It can solicit cheers and plaudits in one’s
domesticmedia, butitwill impede progress
andis likely to be self-defeating.

The US and China must each figure out
hownotto confirm the other's self-fulfilling
prophecy.

Robert Lawrence Kuhn isa public intellectual,
international corporate strategist and
investment banker, and China expert and
commentator. He is the author of How China's
Leaders Think anda co-creator (with Adam Zhu)
and host of CGTN's “Closer to China with R.L.
Kuhn” and “The Watcher” commentaries

Greater effort is required to foster gender diversity

Kevin Sneader and Anu Madgavkar say the Asia-Pacific region needs more women leaders

omen’s representation in high-
ranking positions in business
and politics isa global issue, but
an even more pressing one in Asia-Pacific.
Across the region, only one in five people in
leading roles isa woman.

This waste of women’s talentcomes at
an economic cost. Many economies in the
region are ageing and skills shortages are
onthe rise: making more of women’s
potential can help meet such challenges.
Businesses gain a great deal from
supporting women. McKinsey’s 2018
report “The Power of Parity” found that
companies in the top quarter for gender
diversity on their executive teams are 21
percent more likely to experience above-
average profitability.

Even in developed economies in the
Asia-Pacific, few women are getting to
the top in business—in Japan, there are no
female CEOsin the top 100 public
companies. In Australia and Singapore, the
share of women CEOs in 2016 was only 6
percent and 5 percent respectively. The
Philippines, a traditionally matriarchal
society whose government has been,
proactive in tackling gender inequality,
does better in senior positions overall, but
only3 per cent of CEOs and 15 percent of
board members are women.

The lower share of women in leading
positions within companies isn'tall about
the glass ceiling—the point at which
women’s careers appear to halt. Rather,
women’s under-representation has its
rootsas far backas the education system.

In India, only 44 per cent of students in
tertiary education are female and many
graduates don’t take up employment: only
25 per cent of entry-level positions in
Indian companies are taken by women. In
Japan, the share of women enrolled in
college is higher, at 47 per cent, but women
were only 28 per cent of students attending
the top 10 universities.

The share of women erodes sharply
from entry-level to the boardroom, and the
biggest “breakpoint” is motherhood. Ina
2015 McKinsey survey, 45 per cent of Asian
executives cited the “anywhere, anytime”
performance model as the largest barrier
towomen moving into senior roles. In
Japan, a survey found that three-quarters
of women respondents said they were not
interested in managerial positions, partly
because promotion would mean working
even longer hours.

The second most cited factor behind
women. dropping out of workis the
“double burden” of holding downa job
while looking after the family. In China, 33
percent of female respondents to a 2017
survey said that they hada lower salary
when they returned to work after having a
baby, and 36 percent said they had to
accepta demotion. Sixty-three per cent
said they did notwanta second child
because this would hurt their career.

Many women struggle to return to work
because childcare options are limited or
too expensive. In Australia, net childcare
costs (paid by two-earner families) were 20
percent ofan average family’s income in

2015, compared with the 13 per cent
average in OECD economies.

The attrition of women from the talent
pipeline starts even earlier
motherhood, as societal attitudes militate
against women pursuing a career and
prioritise looking after families. In India, 70
percent of respondents to the 2010-2014
World Values Survey agreed with the
statement, “When a mother works for pay,
the children suffer.”

More can be done to
give women the
freedom to choose a
career as well as
motherhood

There has been some progress. The
share of women on company boards has
been rising reflecting efforts by both
governments and private-sector
organisations. India has made it
mandatory for companies to have at least
one female director, and the Australian
Securities Exchange Corporate
Governance Council tracks gender
diversity in its constituent companies.
Japanese pharmaceutical company
Takeda hit its target of 30 per cent ofnew

managers being women (from only 6.2 per
centin 2015) through a range of initiatives
including flexible working hours.

However, there is much more that can.
be doneto give women the freedom to
choose a career as well as motherhood.
Narrowing the leadership gender gap will
require concerted action by governments
and companies from encouraging and
helping girls to learn the right skills fora
changing labour market and mentoring
women in their careers, to shiftin;
attitudes towards women's roles through
public-awareness campaigns to — perhaps
most importantly making work flexible.

More help with childcare is urgently
needed. Governments can use public
spending to expand childcare provision
and companies can set up nurseries.
Flexible working practices in companies
are vital. In Australia, financial services
company Suncorp enables flexible
working through “workat home hubs” that
combine home work stations and working
spaces in regional shopping centres.

Such efforts are only likely to be
effective with a root-and-branch shift in
attitudes towards women’s roles in society.
Governments can lead from the front,
setting targets for women’s representation,
in business as Japan and Singapore have
done, and more companies can push for
true diversity within their ranks. Doing so is
notonlyin the interests of their bottom line
but the health ofthe economies in which
they work.

Kevin Sneader is chairman, Asia-Pacific, of
McKinsey & Company. Anu Madgavkar is a.
partner at McKinsey Global Institute

Older people still
have lot to offer
in the workplace

Paul Yip says measures to ensure
Hong Kong retirees remain active
through employment may help
prevent poverty and partially offset
the impact of a declining birth rate

keeping people out of poverty. In Hong Kong's

latest poverty situation report, for those with a
job, the poverty rate is only 12.3 per cent, compared to
77.4 per cent among those not working. Among older
adults with a job, itis 12.9 per cent, compared with 48.2
percent among those without employment.

Chief Secretary Matthew Cheung Kin-chung has
recently raised the possibility of promoting workforce
participation for those aged 50-64 and helping those
aged 65-74 re-enter the job market. Hong Kong's
workforce participation rate among older adults is 17.7
percent, lower than in Japan (22.7 per
cent), Singapore (26.8 per cent) and Seoul (31.5 per
cent).

‘The Japanese government has been very active in
promoting workforce participation among its older
citizens, especially since 27 per cent of its
population was aged 65 or over as of 2017. The
population size has decreased, from 128 million in
2010 to 127 million in 2015, and the United
Nations estimates that the number will continue to fall
until 2061. The number of migrants moving to the
country has not offset the population decrease, leaving
no choice but to improve the labour participation and
productivity rate, especially among older adults and
married women with children.

Though Hong Kong's total fertility rate is only 1.2
per woman —less than the 1.4 in Japan—we have
benefited from migration from the mainland to keep
our population young. Our life expectancy is also very
similar to Japan’s, at 81 for men and 87 for women. It is
time to explore how to make better use of our older

The most important thing is
to provide an option for
older adults to be active in
the job market

| ; mploymentis the most robust method for

adults. We should create the right environment

for raising the retirement age and extending
employment beyond that age. Some issues, like
excessive health and medical insurance costs for the
older workforce, and long working hours, should be
re-examined.

The governmentcan create a fund to protect
against excessive increases in insurance costs, while
introducing a more flexible working arrangement for
the older workforce.

The most important thing is to provide an option
for older adults to be active in the job market, and give
them the choice of whether to continue in ajob. Those
who have had enough could perhaps take on volunteer
work in the community. For those who stay on with
paid employment, more flexible time arrangements
would better suit their needs, while their roles could be
redefined so as not to stand in the way of the career
advancement of younger workers. Some tangible
support might be needed for the business sector,
ideally through a tax-deductible arrangement rather
than the proposed cash support.

Forsome work, such asin teaching and research,
the situation depends on individual ability. As in
overseas countries, participants should be allowed to
work as long as they meet expectations. At present, a
vigorous review process takes place to determine
whether to extend beyond retirement age.

The education levels of Hong Kong's older adults is
not high and, among those with very lowlevels, most
can only find workin low-skilled jobs such as cleaning
and, security duties Nevertheless, these areas face a
shortage oflabour and can be a good fit. In such cases,
people's rights and pay should be better protected, to
avoid companies exploiting this group of workers.

Also, sometimes, older adults are not driven by
money when seeking work. For some, finding meaning
in their work can be sufficient. The Japanese
experience shows that some older adults continue to
work to maintain their independence and fitness. Such
workers, whatever they do, display high levels of
professionalism.

Respecting the wishes of older adults and providing
a quality choice in terms of working would be awin-
win situation for the whole community.

Paul Yip is chair professor (Population Health) in the
Department of Social Work and Social Administration at the
University of Hong Kong

For some, finding meaning in work is important, as with
these women who recycle used clothes to make bags.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023689
