=

Fae eel el a on ee |
Nb EF NY ITT AY

Centre De Formation Technique Pour
L’Avancement Des Jeunes Du Sud’Est Inc.

Project Overview

Description

Haitian manufacturing has been well known in the world. As recently as the mid 1980's, Haiti was
known as the staple for baseball production. After labor unrests occurred, corporations moved
their operations out of Haiti to China and other countries. Haiti went from employing 150,000
workers in the textile industry to a current level of 20,000. Haiti occupies the lowest ranks in the
world’s ranking among the countries. As a rule, the country is perceived as politically unstable, being
subject to various natural disasters, and having increasing security problems. For example, the
political difficulties related to the Presidential election had led to the suspension of funding for
major infrastructure rehabilitation by most international and bilateral donors.

The Centre de Formation Technique pour L’Avancement des Jeunes du Sud-est (CEFOTAJ) was
created by members who trace their roots to the beautiful city known as Haiti’s cultural center to
increase general awareness of the dangers facing idle young women and men. The city, a population
of 60,000, is considered a major production center of arts and creativity and is determined by
CEFOTAJ members as the ideal location to establish a trade school.

In support of the Government of Haiti’s National Action Plan to produce centers of economic
development outside the capital of Port-au-Prince, CEFOTAJ plans to ensure Haiti’s future
development by bringing much needed training skills for the textile industry to support the creation
of jobs to Haiti’s underserved regions.

Based on our target group of attracting over 100 youths with 75 enrolling and being trained for the
project, we have formulated a free association questionnaire that we would pose to individuals
within the community in order to assess whether the community believes this avenue of job skill
creation would be fruitful. The following questionnaire would be utilized to engage the community
in open ended discussions about their future and viability of a successful training center:

Survey Questionnaire
A job training center in our community would

Without a job I believe

The textile industry in Haiti has

I would like to occur in my community.

The young people in the Jacmel community

The establishment of a training center would seek to achieve the following goals;

PO Box 666 Brentwood, NY 11717 © Phone (631) 273-4100 © Fax (631) 273-4111 © yair@cefotaj.org © Wwww.cefotaj.org

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019455
