Leadership: NLV_ are leaders in biopharmaceutical investing across all stages and transaction
types

The New Leaf team is well positioned to continue to play a leadership role in the sector. Over
the last two decades, the Fund Managers have demonstrated an ability to access high quality
biopharmaceutical investments at all stages, by sourcing opportunities through a range of
activities that result in differentiated and in many cases proprietary deal flow. Deal flow is
generated by relying on New Leaf’s extensive network of relationships that span senior
executives in the pharmaceutical and biotech companies, top scientists at world-class academic
institutions, and leading investors in the venture capital, private equity, and small cap public
sectors. By leveraging this network the Fund Managers gain visibility to interesting investment
ideas, and develop insight into the long term strategic interests of the larger pharmaceutical and
biotech companies and the evolving attitudes about value and risk of public market investors.
Through this continuous process the Fund Managers seek to ensure that they are able to view
the widest range of high quality opportunities and have a highly informed and discerning
screen to determine which of the opportunities have the greatest long term investment
potential. It is these efforts that have allowed the New Leaf team to create some of the best
performing portfolios of biopharmaceutical investments in the industry in the Sprout Funds
and in NLV-I and NLV-II, and has resulted in successful and consistent track records of returns
in the sector. The Fund Managers have demonstrated leadership in the sector over the long
term through transactions that span the full range of stages and transaction types, including:

e Start-Ups: The Fund Managers have played important roles and have been founding
investors in a number of successful start-up companies. These have included Pearl
Therapeutics (NLV-I, exited in sale to Astra Zeneca, 2.5x multiple plus milestones),
Relypsa (NLV-I,_ private initially, now public on NASDAQ: RLYP),
Convergence/Calchan Pharmaceuticals (NLV-IL, one start up that subsequently split to
become 2 separate companies), Durata Therapeutics (NLV-II: IPO - July, 2012,
NASDAQ: DRTX), and Ilypsa (Sprout IX, exited in sale to Amgen, 6.9x multiple).

e Established Private Companies: The New Leaf Team has played the role of lead
investor in a large number of private investments. These have included Cerexa (NLV-I,
exited in sale to Forest Labs, 5.4x multiple), Stromedix (NLV-I, exited in sale to Biogen
Idec, 1.8x multiple plus milestones), Chimerix (NLV-IL, IPO - April, 2013, NASDAQ:
CMRxX), and Auxilium (Sprout IX, NASDAQ: AUXL, exited at 4.6x).

e Restructuring Private Companies: The Fund Managers have led financings that have
restructured private companies, providing capital to fund business plans that have
refocused company’s business plans on certain key assets and product development
programs and significantly reducing or terminating investments into others. Examples
of this type of investment include Intarcia Therapeutics (NLV-I) and Synageva
Biopharma (NLV-II, reverse merger to become public - November, 2011, NASDAQ:
GEVA,; exited at 7.3x).

e Restructuring & Recapitalizing Public Companies: The New Leaf team has created
interesting investment opportunities through restructuring and recapitalizing public
companies. Examples include MEI Pharma (NLV-I], NASDAQ: MEIP) and Sirna

34 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024045
