132 Teaching Minds

Teaching people how to influence people involves putting them
in situations where it is possible to influence people and seeing how it
goes. There is nothing to learn exactly. We try behaviors and see what
works. What works for one person may not work for another. One way
or another, we learn how to get what we want, or we learn to hang
out with people who will respond to our needs. This is basically a sub-
conscious process. We are so busy working on this at a very young age
that we may not have any idea what it is we know or how to improve
what we do. Of course, there is a conscious part as well. Someone can
tell us that we will catch more flies with honey than with vinegar,
and we can, if we think about it, adjust our behavior. But aphorisms
about what works and what doesn’t work aren’t always correct and
are highly idiosyncratic. Although there are books about how to win
friends and influence people, the reality is that, apart from adopting a
phony personality, people are who they are, more or less.

But this does not mean they can’t be taught what works. It usually
does mean that they can be taught what works as a result of their own
experience. And, they can be taught what doesn’t work as a result of
their own experience. But this isn’t at all easy. If it were, psychiatrists
would not be able to make a living. You can tell a person to change
his behavior, you can even tell him exactly what to do when, but he is
likely not going to be able to do what you say.

The way influence is taught currently is probably the way it has to
be taught, then, by use of mentors who look at your behavior and talk
you through why you do what you do. This same mentoring method
can be used in corporate settings. Simulations may not be so effective
because while we may know and be able to say the right answer, this
doesn’t mean that we can execute the desired behavior in reality.

HOW TO TEACH TEAMWORK

Teamwork is learned by working in teams. It is a mixed process be-
cause, here again, we behave in ways that are not so conscious but
we can make conscious changes. Leaders learn to manage teams by
thinking about what works and what doesn’t. Quarterbacks must
learn to manage their teammates. If they don’t, it really doesn’t mat-
ter how well they can throw the ball. Team members have to want
to work hard for the leader, and the leader has to know how to mo-
tivate each team member. People are different so what works for one

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023878
