mansion to attend to his sexual desires and when he was finished with
me, I’d be off to my adventures.

On the day before we were to be heading back to Palm Beach, Jeffrey
had a new proposition for me. I could make double the money I was
making, if I would look for pretty girls and convince them to come back
to Jeffrey’s to be further persuaded with money to engage in bi-sexual
and sexual acts with Jeffrey and I. I asked him how does one actually
propose such a thing to a complete stranger? “Well” he said in a build up
to another kind of lesson. “If | were you I would use your charm to entice
them and my money to bring them, I would tell them you work for a
multi-billionaire who has a taste for young, beautiful girls and with his
contacts in the acting, modeling, or rich husband world, your boss could
help them, All they have to do is come meet me first.” If ] wasn’t so
naive at the time I would’ve seen that’s exactly what he was doing with
me, my prospects were massage credentials, but with too much pain from
my past, | could only have hope. Not that I was a shy girl, but picking up
girls for one reason alone, only to be endorsed for her body, didn’t sound
like something I could do. But not wanting to displease my master, | told
him that I would give it a go. You could tell he was instantly excited with
my agreement, he started to reveal the politics of what kind of girls he
was looking for. He wasn’t into multi-cultural girls, a very chauvinistic
perception; he said they had to be uniquely gorgeous to be accepted by
him, but definitely no African-American girls, he was racist against
anything different to his kind, a very narrow minded way of thinking for
such a supposed brilliant man. The list went on and on. No girls with
tattoo’s or piercing’s, or gothics, no drug users, or prostitutes. Basically
he wanted everyone’s daughter that looked like the girl next door, with
blue eyes and blonde curly ringlets. I just nodded and smiled, wanting
this to be over with and move on to another conversation, but so worked
up from our previous talk, instead he persisted to show me exactly what I
was good for to him. He took me up to the highest loft in his large
mansion and he lay down on his large bed, expecting me to know exactly
what he wanted done. As always, I complied. Part of me hating him for
having to degrade myself to be so subservient to his sexual whims, and
another part of me was telling myself to be grateful for the opportunities I
was being given.

The battles in my head were beginning to cause me too much anxiety,
when we got back to Palm Beach, | asked my Mom to make me a
doctor’s appointment for some headaches I had been getting lately, so she
wouldn’t question me. | walked out of the doctor’s with a prescription for
a mind-altering anxiety tablet called “Xanax”, not only did it help with
anxiety but it also acted as blanket over terrible memories. So when I had
to perform degrading acts, I would take a few pills and forget what

39

happened within the next hour and be able to become someone without a
battling conscious.

I spent my sweet 16 birthday on his island in the Caribbean next to
“St. James Isle” he liked to call it “Little St. Jeff's”, his ego was as
enormous as his appetite for fornicating. I was given a birthday cake and
anew collection of designer make-up from London. Ghislane made a
joke after I blew out my array of candles and said, ’I’d be soon getting
too old for Jeffrey’s taste, and soon they'd have to trade me in.” She was
only half joking in a sad reality though. A few days after my birthday, a
girl was flying out to the island to join us for a few days before flying
back to N.Y.C. I was introduced to a pretty girl a few years my senior,
named Sarah. She had long ash blonde hair and big brown eyes that
hinted she had a cheeky nature. She had known Jeffrey before I had, and
he was supposedly trying to help her get an acting job in L.A. She was
obviously accustomed to the lifestyle he provided her, making it ever so
apparent with her prompt attention she lavished on him. She would do
things like strip nude and bathe around the swimming pool, taunting him
for sex. She was good at what she did, even putting me at ease with her
cool persona and funny jokes. Jeffrey told me privately that she was one
of his best at procuring young girls into her entrapment and delivering
them to him when he was in town, and when it came to time in the private
chambers with Jeffrey, Her and I, it wasn’t hard to comprehend. She was
devoted to the moment, giving Jeffrey every imaginable lustful desire he
could fathom. On the last night there we all took a trip over to St. James
to go for a stroll, odd I thought, it was past 7pm and Jeffrey rarely strayed
out past then, unless it was some event or dinner party. While Ghislane
and him looked the average couple strolling arm in arm through the
streets, he said to Sarah and I, “Why don’t you two hit the night club here
and see if there is anyone interesting to bring back for the evening?” It
was more of an order than a request and then I knew why we came out
tonight and why Sarah was invited, tonight was all about training, and
Sarah was going to show me the ropes in picking up girls. Although there
was no one to accustom to Jeffrey’s distinct taste to bring back, watching
Sarah flirt from girl to girl like a floating butterfly, gave me enough
insight into what I was expected to do.

Within Months I had become his handy little helper. Not only would I
run to his beckon call, but I also aided Ghislane in bringing in more girls
to keep the appetite of our sexually starving chief from going hungry. |
once asked Ghislane, why she did what she did for him, instead of having
a common monogamous relationship and getting jealous like normal
partners would? She replied simply “It takes the pressure off me having
to do it”. That said it all, we were all under the shade of Jeffrey’s money
tree, and not even someone like her could escape from its lure.

40

L! Copyright Protected Material 0 Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004172 CONFIDENTIAL GIULFRE004 173

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021164
