] (Thereupon, the following interview was had:)

2 DETECTIVE RECAREY: -- December 13th, 2005.
4 This ts 1D number -- Detective Joe Recarey with

4 the Town of Palm Beach Police Department. Present
& is Detective Dawson with the Palm Beach Police

fi Department.

vy BY DEFECTIVE RECAREY:

ts Q Can you state your name tor the recard, please.
38 A

1 Q _ Spell it. please.

Q Your date of birth?

14 A
15 Q How eld are you?

i€ A Seventeen.

7 Q. Okay. You saw J just spoke to your mom and she
78 has given me authorizanon ro speak to you. Lam

Inveshg@aling 4 case invelying a gendeman by the name of
Jeffrey. You may know him as Jeff cr Jefirey lives mm the

72 Town of Palm Beach. We believe that you may have some

7? information pertaining to his residence and/or a visit at

“7 his house. I'm going to ask you in your own werds tell ine

441 exactly what bappened fram the bevinning. [ may interrupt

22 you to ask you some more questions dul belore we b

2a

zaise your right hand fer me. Do you solemnly swear zo tell
the truth. the whole truth and nothing bet the truth su help

= you Ged?

4 Addo.

ie ra

i (inaudible) not really friends. IE
3 that she found a way of making mene

And then she sand that if Lever told anybody she'd
bo beat my ass and so | didn’t even know what she was talki

12 before we got im there she’s like oh, he might ask you to
Li: like take off your shirt or something. But J didn't -- it
didn't matier so J saicl okay. And Pwent in his house. A
lady escorted ne up to his roum. Hada bed on it.

Q0 Okay. det ime back you up fora second

A Uh buh.

Q Yau said this was right befive Christmas.
Christmas of last vear or the year besore?

Last year

QO Last year,

A Uh-huh.
Sa tls is December of 2004. nghi?

I

czm. cup

oT ke 4a? Pd =

Fanny

A Uh-huh.

(2 Okay. How old were you then?
A lthink 14.

QQ Okay.

A And then i went up there. He was on the phone and
he just told me to massage his feet so J went over there and
did it. (inaudible} and everything and then --

Q Ilold en fora second. Hold on, Take me from when
you got to the housc in Palm Beach. First of all, do you
remember the name of the street?

A You said it before but | just can't remember.

1) Okay. Da you remember any specifics of the house?

A know where itis if] were te go back. 1] could
find it.

{? Okay.

A twas at the end on the lefi side.

OQ The end on the leti side? Okay. Do you remember
the calor of dhe house?

A Oh. It was too long ago.

Q Okay. I know it's been some time and we did speak
ance before

A) Uh-huh.

J Allright. So you were watking in with a:

A Uh-huh.

Do vou go Lhrough the garage’?

A No. Yeni eo to the side vate. Yor have to knack
an the back door kind of.

4} Uh-huh.

A And a lady wall ask you ltke what's your name and
why you're there.
Q Okay. What's the lady's namie? Do you know?
A No. Lihink she was the inaid because she was like

fold-ng. up towels and she was bringing them upstairs

Q Do you know -- can you deseribe her to me?

A She might be a Spanish lady. T can't remember so
weil.

{) Okay.

A And when you walked in, there was food on the
table. They offered you food. And I waited a couple of
Minutes, | guess he was in another session. I don't know.
Because like a pirl walked out before | walked in and this
really pretty lady. he walked in with two ladies and they
were hike. they looked Jike models or something and one had
blond long hair and one of them came down and told me I
could go upstairs, That's probably her. And as we were
walking up the staizs she told me what was voing to happen
like welt, he's going to have same Jofious there and he'll
probably be on the phone tor a little while.

Q Okay. Did the blond lady with the long hair take

J. Consor & Associates Reporting & Tran:

961.682.0905

98ae64ed-fabi-461a-b5d2-be85289cc56a

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012347

191
