The 20-year-old Royal Palm Beach woman who told police she recruited girls for Mr.
Epstein has a Web page on myspace.com that features one girl using the name Pimpin'
Made EZ.

Although no charges of witness tampering have been filed, the parents of at least one of
the teenage victims complained to police of being followed and intimidated by two men.
Police determined that their vehicles were registered to two private investigators. Mr.
Goldberger denied knowing anything about it.

Police also note in their reports that the state attorney's office offered Mr. Epstein a plea
deal that would have placed him on probation for five years, allowing him ultimately to
walk away with no criminal record at all.

I asked Mr. Krischer's spokesman, Mike Edmondson, why the case was referred to a
grand jury instead of Mr. Epstein being charged and facing a trial before a jury. And
shouldn't the victims' credibility be a factor to determine whether a crime's been
committed, not whether a jury will convict? (After all, as Mr. Goldberger told The Palm
Beach Post of Mr. Epstein, He's never denied girls came to the house.)

Especially, I asked Mr. Edmondson to explain: Why shouldn't the public look at this case
and think there are two kinds of justice - one for the wealthy and one for the rest of us?

Mr. Edmondson said he could not comment on the case because it is active, but on the
latter point, he offered, for the sake of philosophical debate: Whether wealth buys a
different standard of justice across the country ... the answer to that would, of course, be
yes.

But in this case, he said, regardless of the battery of attorneys, the outcome would be the
same. Every issue that was debated in public was debated in our office before this case
went to the grand jury.”

In this case, it is not the victims' credibility but the state attorney's that deserves
questioning.

Palm Beach Post Editorial #2

Massaging the system
Palm Beach Post Editorial

Thursday, August 10, 2006

Palm Beach police say their 11-month investigation shows that 53-year-old part-time
town resident Jeffrey Epstein committed unlawful sex acts with and lewd and lascivious
molestation on five underage girls. Defense attorney Jack Goldberger claims that his
client, Jeffrey Epstein, had no idea that the untrained girls he hired for massages were
minors.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021776
