104 Teaching Minds

found to be true. At the core of thinking, you find generalization and
explanation. But it is important to remember that what starts the
process of generalization and explanation is failure. Without failure
we don’t try to generalize and explain because we have nothing to
generalize and explain. Thinking, therefore, looks like this:

Make a prediction
Prediction fails

Make a generalization
Explain your generalization
Make a new prediction

Let me explain how this works and why one cannot think well if one
cannot do this. To explain, I will tell a personal story relating to my
own thinking and learning with respect to two of the twelve cognitive
processes. I will explain afterwards why I have chosen to tell stories
and why I have used personal ones.

DESCRIBING

Let’s start with describing. There is, of course, an art to describing.
Anyone who writes and anyone who speaks publicly is learning all the
time about describing. Since I was a professor for 30 odd years, and
since I have written hundreds of papers and about 25 books, and since
I have given numerous keynote speeches around the world, I have
been thinking a great deal about describing for many years. I learn
something whenever I speak publicly because I can easily tell whether
I am being heard or not. Are the listeners on the edge of their seats or
are they half asleep (or literally asleep)? I learn when I write because I
read the reviews, and colleagues are always happy to tell me what was
wrong with what I wrote.

Once, I was given a lesson in public speaking by someone older
and wiser than me that I never forgot. I recently had been hired at
Stanford as a professor. I was pretty young (22) and full of myself. In
those days, the Computer Science Department ran a course for new
graduate students that served as an introduction to all the special re-
search possibilities in artificial intelligence for those who wanted to
enter that field. There were many faculty in AI at Stanford and each

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023850
