Defining Intelligence 147

had boundary issues she had to deal with. We have boundary
issues right now with Mexico now.

This Palin supporter is also incoherent but incoherent in a differ-
ent way. He doesn’t know much, and he knows he doesn’t know
much. But he has beliefs and he believes in his beliefs. He has beliefs
about socialism (that it is bad, and that President Obama thinks it
is good) that are based on no real knowledge. He has beliefs about
foreign policy and what it means to have foreign policy experience
that are based on nonsense. And he has made up some beliefs about
“boundaries.”

What does this tell us? It tells us that at some point, maybe not
now because he is too set in his own beliefs, someone could have
taught him about socialism or “boundaries” or what it means to have
foreign policy experience. But it should be clear that this is exactly
the kind of education that we have been trying to do in our schools
forever. You can talk about socialism in school, but that doesn’t mean
that your average person learns much from what is said there.

There is a wonderful movie called Ferris Bueller’s Day Off that
reveals a great deal about education. I often use a clip from that movie,
when I give speeches on education or training, wherein the teacher
drones on about the Smoot Hawley tariff and George Bush’s view of
Reagan’s voodoo economics (as stated in the 1980 primaries) while
the students doze off. At a different point in the same movie, the lead
character blows off a European history test, saying:

It’s on European socialism. I mean, really! What’s the point? I’m
not European ... I don’t plan on being European. So who gives a
crap if they’re socialists? They could be fascist anarchists. ... It
still wouldn’t change the fact that I don’t own a car!

They do teach about socialism in school, but no one is listening. If we
can’t produce reasonably intelligent voters in our schools, then we
aren’t doing much.

Here is another Columbus Palin fan:

Interviewer: What do you think she would bring in terms of
policy in office?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023887
