16

Sinai, said that the fliers had been distributed outside mosques after
Friday prayers by men who covered their faces with scarves.

Several days later, another purported al Qaeda flier appeared around
el-Arish -- this time announcing that the organization was planning to
attack police stations on Aug. 12. For the Egyptian security services,
that was one provocation too far. On that day, stunned residents of el-
Arish woke to find thousands of troops from the Egyptian 2nd Army,
accompanied by police officers and border guards, deployed in an
anti-terror crackdown in Sinai. The operation's first phase entailed
securing government buildings, police stations, and the el-Arish
prison. The offensive started on Aug. 15, as one Egyptian militant
was killed and 12 were arrested, according Hazem al-Maadawi, a
police officer involved in the operation. State news agency EgyNews
said authorities are targeting 15 more people who participated in
attacks at the el-Arish police station, including members of the al
Qaeda-affiliated Palestinian group Jaish al-Islam. These extremist
rumblings have frayed nerves in the Israeli government, which had
already been skeptical of the Egyptian revolution. Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told a Knesset committee on May. 30,
Global terrorist organizations are meddling [in Sinai] and their
presence is increasing because of the connection between Sinai and
Gaza. If there is any hope of restoring order to Sinai, it lies in a
historic rapprochement between the Bedouins and the Egyptian
security forces to drive out these unwanted interlopers. Bedouins
have signaled their willingness to help restore security, but are also
calling on the Egyptian government to do its part by finally
integrating them into Egypt's social fabric. We will not let a single
Palestinian suspected of ill intentions into Sinai after the attacks,
said Muhammed al-Ahmar, a Bedouin and human rights activist.
But, we are fed up with empty promises, and if the police mentality
does not change, then nothing will work. It's time for Sinai to flourish

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024607
