10

The best and the brightest talent in town arrive at 9pm. They are Justin
Bieber and his date Selena Gomez, Andrew Garfield, Jude Law, Vera
Farmiga, Armie Hammer, Jennifer Lawrence, Kevin Spacey, Charlize Theron,
Anne Hathaway, Hailee Steinfield, Taylor Hackford and Helen Mirren,
Scarlett Johansson, Michelle Williams, Isla Fischer and Sasha Baron
Cohen, Jane Fonda after her play, “33 Variations”, Melania and Donald
Trump whom I introduce to David O. Russell as The Trumpster gushes about
“The Fighter”. Donald offers me a ride home on his plane. He is leaving
in ten minutes. Too bad James Franco didn’t know because he is presently
sitting on a commercial flight back to school, skipping his own after
party. Social standings of the rest of the guests are determined by half
hour increments. Every other person previously mentioned in the story is
here. VF’s Beth Kseniak and Matt Ullian tell me the list is cut down to
800 this year.

At 11:3@pm there is another celebrity migration up the hill to Madonna
manager Guy Oseary’s house. One should note that earlier in the evening
Madonna came down the hill to pose in a risqué outfit with daughter
Lourdes in front of the green hedge. Madonna and co-host Demi Moore are
able to lure the creme de la créme with the promise of fabulous music,
dancing and no cameras. Those reported on their dance floor include Ryan
Phillippe with Amanda Syedfried, who were making out all night and
Phillippe’s ex-wife Reese Witherspoon and new fiancé Jim Toth. They
pregnant Natalie Portman and choreographer Benjamin Millepied, Mick
Jagger, Tom Hanks, Sean Penn, Ralph Feinnes, Mila Kunis, Cameron Diaz,
Gwyneth Paltrow and Renee Zellweger and Bradley Cooper boogie til dawn.

A winner’s work is never done. Colin Firth, Tom Hooper and David Seidler
show up at 4:3@am at The Four Seasons Hotel for a live broadcast on The
Today Show with Meredith Vieira. Functioning on an adrenalin rush, they
are back at the Kodak Theater with Geoffrey Rush to appear on Oprah’s
live broadcast. Leave it to Oprah to get the king’s last words.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012699
