At pivotal moments in our history, America has courageously
concluded that a central tenet of its foreign policy, conceived with the
best intentions, simply isn’t working. Hard though it’s been for this
proud and mighty nation to admit failure, trading a losing strategy for
a fresh course has brought such triumphs as the Nixon-Kissinger pacts
with China that isolated the Soviet Union and helped to end the Cold
War.

Today, America faces just such a reckoning in the Middle East. Our
objective is clear: halting the spread of terrorism that’s headed for our
shores, threatening mass murder in our suburban shopping malls, city
tunnels, and crowded parks. With the Middle East in chaos—as though
a raging desert sirocco is destroying all sense of order——the US should
make a radical, historic shift in its outreach towards the Arab world.

Given the reluctance of America and its Western allies to launch a
military offensive, it’s impossible to know when peace will be restored.
But right now, while the battles rage, the US can take decisive
diplomatic steps to stem the poverty and despair that makes the
Middle East a breeding ground for radical Islamic terrorism. America
should forge alliances with a new generation of Arab leaders whose
principal goal is improving the daily lives of their people. Providing
jobs and raising hope among the region’s impoverished youth is the
best protection for the world’s wealthy nations, from America, to
Europe, to the Arabian Peninsula.

Once peace is restored, the US should take the lead in establishing a
21st century “Marshall Plan” of economic aid to durably lift living
standards in the Middle East’s poorest areas.

So what went wrong? For decades, the U.S. has pursued a misguided
policy I'll call “embrace and abandon.” It started with the “embrace:”
recruiting and financing leaders who were blatantly autocratic, yet at
the time qualified as America’s allies. Then, the U.S. invariably
exhorted these strongmen to champion revolutionary democratic

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031717
