Defining Intelligence 147

Couric: Can you think of any?

Palin: Well, I could think of .. . any again, that could be best
dealt with on a more local level. Maybe I would take issue
with. But, you know, as mayor, and then as governor
and even as a vice president, if I’m so privileged to serve,
wouldn't be in a position of changing those things but in
supporting the law of the land as it reads today.

So little of what Palin says makes sense that this interview was seen as a
national embarrassment, provoking multiple explanations for it from
the Palin camp, none of which said: She is just stupid and ignorant.

Obviously that is what her detractors were thinking. But is it true?
Is she stupid and ignorant? How can we find out? Look at this next
piece of the Couric interview:

Couric: .. . people have questioned your readiness since that
interview. And I’m curious to hear your reaction.

Palin: Well, not only am I ready but willing and able to serve as
vice president with Senator McCain if Americans so bless us
and privilege us with the opportunity of serving them, ready
with my executive experience as a city mayor and manager,
as a governor, as a commissioner, a regulator of oil and gas,
not only with my résumé proving that readiness, but I think
the important thing here is that John McCain and I, we share
a vision for America that includes energy independence.

What could be clearer than the idea that she is simply out of her
league and that it was a foolish idea to promote her as a possible vice
president? Why cynical politicians decide this is OK to do is not my
problem. The question I want to address is what makes one intelli-
gent, apart from genetics.

Looking at what we have seen here, we can think about our 12
cognitive processes one more time. Which of them are critical to the
everyday assessment of the intelligence of another person that most
people do on a daily basis?

Let’s start by eliminating some. Being able to evaluate something,
or having a set of values you believe in, has very little to do with basic
intelligence. The samples of stupidity that I cite above do not indicate
that any of this ability—determining what is important—is missing in
the people being interviewed.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023893
