http://bettyfokker.wordpress.com/20 1 0/08/20/hes-helping-others-get-away-with-child-sex-
trafficking/

He’s helping others get away with child-sex trafficking

Posted on August 20. 2010 by Betty Fokker

Let’s discuss that billionaire douche-face child-rapist, Jeffrey Epstein for a moment shall

we? He’s someone who likes to have sex with venerable underage girls, including 12 year old
girls who are trafficked into the US under the guise that they will become models. His partner in
crime was Jean Luc Brunel, owner and ‘talent scout’ of the MC2 “modeling agency’. Epstein
coincidently invested a million bucks in the MC2 kiddie-perating modeling agency and let
Brunel use his privet jet.

The FBI thinks Epstein has assaulted/molested about 40 or so young girls. So he’s going to
prison for the rest of his life right? Wrong.

When faced with the best defense lawyers money could buy, the prosecutors wimped out and
made a plea bargain so light it boggles the mind. This kid-raping bastard only had to please
guilty to two MINOR charges and gets a private cell, a cell he gets to leave on a “work release
program” by the way.

Now, I am not blaming his defense attorneys. They were doing their job and, under our
constitution, a festering anus like Epstein has the right to the best attorneys he can afford.

] am livid with the prosecuting attorneys. It was their job to do everything in their power to bring
this vomit-inducing shit-sack to justice. Instead, they decided to gutlessly pander to his wealth,
privilege, and powerful defense team. They rolled over and did everything but send in another
kid to give this fucker a hand-job. So this vermin got away with raping 12 year old girls because
the prosecuting attorneys couldn’t find a single testicle/ovary to share among them.

And do you know what their chicken-shit kowtowing to Epstein has wrought? It’s opened the
door for other child-sex traffickers to get fighter sentences for their crimes too. Why should they
have to pay when he didn’t? After all, it was just girls they were trafficking for sex with
disgusting older males (1 refuse to call something like Epstein a “man”; it insults men) ... they
weren't harming anything of any value in our culture!

I'm a feminist because I think girls & women have value. What a crying, fucking shame there
wasn't one feminist in the prosecutors office to go after this monster and punish him. What a pity
other hell-spawn might get away with trafficking girls for sex more easily because of the shit-
for-brains attorneys who let Epstein get away with his crimes.

My eyeballs are melting with rage.

Never mind. They aren’t melting. It’s just tears of helpless and despairing rage against an unjust
legal system and the cultural devaluation of women and girls.

23

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011934
