Did Snowden Act Alone? | 155

shared Snowden’s anti-surveillance views. If Snowden then voiced
an interest in exposing the NSA’s secrets, this person could sup-
ply him with the necessary guidance, steering a still-unsuspecting
Snowden first to the Booz Allen position and afterward to his associ-
ates in Hong Kong. By taking sole credit for the coup in the video
that he made with Poitras and Greenwald in Hong Kong, he acted, as
he told Greenwald, to divert suspicion from anyone else. This move
could also give any collaborator he might have had in Hawaii time
to cover his or her tracks.

The astronomer Carl Sagan famously said in regard to searching
the universe for signals from other civilizations that the “absence
of evidence is not evidence of absence.” That injunction also applies
to the spooky universe of espionage. The fact that a mole hunt fails
to find a hidden collaborator at the NSA does not necessarily mean
such a mole does not exist. Historically, we have many notable cases
in which Russian moles eluded long, intensive investigations. Rob-
ert Hanssen penetrated the FBI for over twenty years for the KGB
without being caught. Similarly, Aldrich Ames acted as a KGB mole

© in the CIA for more than ten years and passed all the CIA’s sophisti- ©
cated lie detector tests. Both Hanssen and Ames eluded intensive FBI
and CIA investigations that lasted over a decade. According to Victor
Cherkashin, their KGB case officer, whom I interviewed in Moscow
in 2015, the KGB was able to hide their existence from investigators
for such a long period partly because of the widespread belief in U.S.
intelligence that moles were fictional creatures that sprang from the
“paranoid mind” of James Jesus Angleton. When I then cited the
signature line from the movie The Usual Suspects, “The greatest
trick the devil ever pulled was convincing the world he didn’t exist,”
Cherkashin thinly smiled and said, “CIA denial [of moles] certainly
helped.”

In view of such past successes of the Russian intelligence services,
it cannot be precluded that there was another person in the NSA
working with the enthusiastic Snowden as cover to prevent any light
from falling on his own surreptitious spying. While it may seem
extremely unlikely that Snowden had such assistance, the alterna-
tive scenario, that Snowden broke into the sealed compartments and

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 155 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019643
