Washington D.C.

Described as feeling like a ‘family wedding’, guests included former Secretary of State Madeleine
Albright, Terry McAuliffe, Governor of Virginia, and leading figure in the civil rights movement Vernon

Jordan.
For Maxwell to remain a Clinton chum is an interesting turn of events.

Just two years earlier, her former lover and friend Jeffrey Epstein was sentenced to 18 months behind bars

after pleading to a single state charge of soliciting prostitution. He served 13 months in prison.

President Clinton had been so close to both to Epstein he had joined him on his private jet and stayed on

his private Caribbean island.

Speaking to the Mail On Sunday in 2011, Virginia Roberts - who claims in court papers she was kept as
Epstein's 'sex slave' and forced to sleep with Prince Andrew three times - said she met President Clinton

twice, but was never ‘lent out’.

Buckingham Palace vehemently denies the claims, as does Maxwell. Her legal team stresses she was not
involved in, or connected to the criminal proceedings against Epstein and with regards to Virginia

Roberts' claims, they stressed she denies each and every allegation.

Virginia, now a married mother of three, claimed that President Clinton traveled with Epstein to a number
of destinations, including three times on the billionaire’s private jet, and enjoyed intimate dinners with
both him and Maxwell.

On one occasion, she said that Epstein flew the former President, Hollywood actor and staunch Democrat

Kevin Spacey and another actor friend of Mr Clinton’s, Chris Tucker, to Africa, to ‘discuss AIDS policy’.

Epstein, who has donated more than £75,000 over the years to candidates from the Democratic Party,
also flew with President Clinton in November 2003 to destinations including Russia, Oslo, Hong Kong,

Shanghai and Beijing.

On one occasion, she alleged, Epstein did invite two young brunettes to a dinner which he gave on his
island for President Clinton shortly after he left office. But, as far as she knows, the ex-President did not
take the bait.

Maxwell declines to comment on Prince Andrew allegations

Mysterious: Ghislaine Maxwell beams as her ex-lover, disgraced billionaire Jeffrey Epstein

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019469
