17

pragmatically manage our differences now seems, in the current environment, both naive
and quixotic.

Promote Transparency

Follow-on congressional oversight will go far toward educating the Congress, the media,
and the public about these important topics. The issues are complicated and have no simple
solutions. Various specialists within and outside the US government should be consulted

in determining the full scope of the problem and what should be done.

Promote Integrity

Congress needs also to distinguish between issues that present a real threat to the United
States, such as Chinese espionage and Chinese-directed monitoring of Chinese students
on US campuses, and institutions such as Confucius Institutes, which, as we have noted
elsewhere in this report, can be better regulated by universities themselves.

Promote Reciprocity

In coming up with remedial steps, Congress must consider the broader bilateral relationship.
It is asked to weigh carefully the continued important positive elements in the US-China
relationship, the negative consequences that might arise from a confrontational approach

to China, and America’s need to protect and foster its strengths and interests.

NOTES

1 Sources for the information and judgments in this section include: United States Congress. House
Committee on Foreign Affairs. Executive-Legislative Consultations over China Policy, 1978-1979. Washington,
DC: US Government Printing Office, 1980; Ramon Myers, Michel Oksenberg, and David Shambaugh

(eds.), Making China Policy: Lessons from the Bush and Clinton Administrations (Lanham, MD: Rowman &
Littlefield, 2001); Harry Harding, A Fragile Relationship: The US and China Since 1972 (Washington, DC:
Brookings Institution, 1992); David M. Lampton, Same Bed, Different Dreams: Managing US-China Relations,
1989-2000 (Berkeley: University of California, 2001); James Mann, About Face: A History of America’s Curious
Relationship with China, from Nixon to Clinton (New York: Knopf, 1999); Robert Sutter, US-Chinese Relations:
Perilous Past, Pragmatic Present (Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield, 2010); Nancy B. Tucker, Strait Talk:
United States-Taiwan Relations and the Crisis with China (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2009).

2 See website at http://www.china.org.cn/english/features/38189.htm.
3 See the institute’s website at https://www.usasiainstitute.org/delegations/chin.

4 See the committee’s website at https://www.ncuscr.org/content/congressional-committee-staff
-delegation-china-1976.

5 Sources for this section rely on sources seen in source note 2 and Shambaugh, David, ed., Tangled
Titans, Boulder, CO: Rowman & Littlefield, 2013; Sutter, Robert, US-China Relations: Perilous Past, Uncertain
Present, Boulder CO: Rowman & Littlefield, 2018, 119-164.

Section 1

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020476
