Speaking at a news conference in Washington, Mr Gulen's lawyers said they expected him to remain at the Pennsylvania
compound where he lives in self-imposed exile, and not attempt to flee.

Mr Gulen is a reclusive figure who rarely makes contact with the media.
Although Turkey has demanded his extradition, it has yet to make a formal request.

The US has said its judiciary will consider a request 1f and when it is filed. It also asked for evidence of the cleric's involvement
in the coup attempt, which Turkey says it has supplied.

Mr Gulen's lawyers said it was most unlikely any extradition request would stand up in a US court and almost no chance that
their client would get a fair trial in Turkey, given what had been said against him there since the coup attempt.

One of the lawyers, Reid Weingarten, said: It would be unprecedented and appalling if the United States took a frail almost-
octogenarian, plopped him on a plane to go back into that kind of setting with the hideous things that are being said about him
by the entire Turkish government.

Much of Turkey's crackdown has targeted perceived supporters of the cleric.

Tens of thousands of public sector workers have been suspended or dismissed, with many having their passports cancelled.
There has also been a massive reshuffle of the military.

About 18,000 people have been detained or arrested.
Now local branches of the AK Party have been told to begin a purge of suspected Gulenists in their ranks.

Mr Gulen had been a close ally of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan until a bitter split between his movement and the party of
the president three years ago.

Turkey has listed Mr Gulen's movement as a terrorist organisation.

From: Will Bohlen
Sent: Friday, August 05, 2016 1:19 PM

To: ‘Keough, Michael' {i ; King, Kathryn ; Miller, Michael
Eee Katelyn Wohlford < >; Y. Alp Aslandogan

EEE Weingarten, Reid (>; Remzi Kulen ee :
Weinstein, Jason iii: Osman 02. i; David Marin
> E10 inc: >; Drake, William <i >
Cc: Eliopoulos, Steven <i

Subject: RE: Audio recording

Thank you, Michael.

Reuters story just posted:
http://www.reuters.com/article/us-turkey-security-gulen-idUSKCN10G1P8?il=0

World | Fri Aug 5, 2016 1:07pm EDT
Related: WORLD

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031475
