4.2.12
WC: 191694

The Guild decided to abandon any pretense of reporting neutrally on human rights and has
continued to serve only as the legal and political arm of the hard left. It has now lost all of its
credibility as a human rights organization.

Nor was the Guild alone in shifting from “a purely human rights perspective” to a largely political
perspective that used the label of human rights selectively against its ideological enemies. Other
organizations which were founded on the principles of neutral human rights, such as Human
Rights Watch,'” the Carter Center and Amnesty International,

'® As an early supporter of Human Rights Watch and an admirer of its founder, I have taken upon myself
the responsibility of monitoring its actions very carefully—of guarding the guardians. I was particularly
critical of its reporting on Israel’s war against Hezbollah in 20___, after Hezbollah fired thousands of
rockets at civilian targets in the north of Israel.

I focused on the highly publicized “conclusion” reached by Human Rights Watch allegedly after extensive
“imvestigations” on the ground:

“Human Rights Watch found no cases in which Hezbollah deliberately used civilians as shields
to protect them from retaliatory IDF attack.” (emphasis added)

After investigating a handful of cases, Human Rights Watch found that in “none of the cases of civilian
deaths documented in this report [Qana, Srifa, Tyre, and southern Beirut] is there evidence to suggest that
Hezbollah forces or weapons were in or near the area that the IDF targeted during or just prior to the
attack.”

No cases! None! Not one! That’s what Human Rights watch reported to the world.

But anyone who watched even a smattering of TV during the war saw with their own eyes direct evidence
of rockets being launched from civilian areas. Not Human Rights Watch. “Who are you going to believe,
me or your lying eyes?” That’s not Chico Marx. It’s Human Rights Watch. Their lying eyes belonged to
the pro-Hezbollah witnesses its investigators chose to interview—and claimed to believe. But their
mendacious pens belonged to Kenneth Roth, HRW’s Executive Director, and his minions in New York,
who know how to be skeptical when it serves their interests not to believe certain witnesses. How could an
organization, which claims to be objective, have been so demonstrably wrong about so central a point in
so important a war? Could it have been an honest mistake? I don’t think so. Despite its boast that
“Human Rights Watch has interviewed victims and witness of attacks in on-on-one settings, conducted on-
site inspections ... and collected information for hospitals, humanitarian groups, and government
agencies,” it didn’t find one instance in which Hezbollah failed to segregate its fighters from civilians.

In arriving at this counter-factual conclusion, Human Rights Watch willfully ignored credible news
sources, such as The New York Times, The New Yorker and other sources.

After I exposed the double standard practiced by Human Rights Watch, its founder, Robert Bernstein, wrote the
following in the New York Times.

As the founder of Human Rights Watch, its active chairman for 20 years and now founding chairman
emeritus, I must do something that I never anticipated: I must publicly join the group’s critics. Human
Rights Watch had as its original mission to pry open closed societies, advocate basic freedoms and support
dissenters. But recently it has been issuing reports on the Israeli-Arab conflict that are helping those who
wish to turn Israel into a pariah state.

Israel, with a population of 7.4 million, is home to at least 80 human rights organizations, a vibrant free
press, a democratically elected government, a judiciary that frequently rules against the government, a

334

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017421
