said in response (one reason he was so repetitive). Nor did he treat anyone with any sort of
basic or reliable courtesy. If he wanted something, his focus might be sharp and attention
lavish, but if someone wanted something from him, he tended to become irritable and
quickly lost interest. He demanded you pay him attention, then decided you were weak for
groveling. In a sense, he was like an instinctive, pampered, and hugely successful actor.
Everybody was either a lackey who did his bidding or a high-ranking film functionary
trying to coax out his attention and performance—and to do this without making him
angry or petulant.

The payoff was his enthusiasm, quickness, spontaneity, and—if he departed for a
moment from the nonstop focus on himself—an often incisive sense of the weaknesses of
his opponents and a sense of their deepest desires. Politics was handicapped by
incrementalism, of people knowing too much who were defeated by all the complexities
and conflicting interests before they began. Trump, knowing little, might, Trumpers tried
to believe, give a kooky new hope to the system.

Jared Kushner in quite a short period of time—trather less than a year—had crossed
over from the standard Democratic view in which he was raised, to an acolyte of
Trumpism, bewildering many friends and, as well, his own brother, whose insurance
company, Oscar, funded with Kushner-family money, was destined to be dealt a blow by a
repeal of Obamacare.

This seeming conversion was partly the result of Bannon’s insistent and charismatic
tutoring—a kind of real-life engagement with world-bending ideas that had escaped
Kushner even at Harvard. And it was helped by his own resentments toward the liberal
elites whom he had tried to court with his purchase of the New York Observer, an effort
that had backfired terribly. And it was, once he ventured onto the campaign trail, about
having to convince himself that close up to the absurd everything made sense—that
Trumpism was a kind of unsentimental realpolitik that would show everybody in the end.
But most of all, it was that they had won. And he was determined not to look a gift horse
in the mouth. And, everything that was bad about Trumpism, he had convinced himself, he
could help fix.

7 OK Ok

As much as it might have surprised him—for many years, he had humored Trump more
than embraced him—Kushner was in fact rather like his father-in-law. Jared’s father,
Charlie, bore an eerie resemblance to Donald’s father, Fred. Both men dominated their
children, and they did this so completely that their children, despite their demands,
became devoted to them. In both instances, this was extreme stuff: belligerent,
uncompromising, ruthless men creating long-suffering offspring who were driven to
achieve their father’s approval. (Trump’s older brother, Freddy, failing in this effort, and,
by many reports, gay, drank himself to death; he died in 1981 at age forty-three.) In
business meetings, observers would be nonplussed that Charlie and Jared Kushner

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019938
