; “scxrelationship V

tsocial always

created

Chapter 13”

Theological Perspectives on God as an
Invisible Force

An individual’s beliefs about
God are one factor to be included in a
multi-dimensional investigation of the
social consequences and possible health
benefits of religion, an aid in particular

3 The lead author is Kathryn Tanner, Ph.D., the
Dorothy Grant Maclear Professor of Theology at
the University of Chicago Divinity School. Her
research relates the history of Christian thought
to areas of contemporary theological concern
using critical, social, and feminist theory, with a
special focus on the possible practical
implications of Christian beliefs and symbols.
She has lectured widely throughout the United
States and Europe, and is the author of six books:
God and Creation in Christian Theology:
Tyranny or Empowerment? (1988, Blackwell);
The Politics of God (1992, Fortress); Theories of
Culture: A New Agenda for Theology (1997,
Fortress); Jesus, Humanity and the Trinity (2001,
Continuum and Fortress Press); Economy of
Grace (2005, Fortress); and Christ the Key
(2010, Cambridge).

Christian beliefs are not just theoretical
matters, involving putative truth claims about the
nature of ultimate reality, but practical ones:
Christian beliefs are often promulgated with the
hope of impacting the way human beings live, by
establishing, for example, the meaningfulness of
and motivations for certain forms of social
behavior. Prior research has concerned the
possible economic, social and political
consequences of Christian beliefs about God's
relation to the world. This essay extends such
questioning to the topic of perceived social
isolation. How might belief in God as an
invisible force in everyday life affect an
individual's sense of social connection?

Page |120

to scientific hypothesis generation.”
Scientists can better test for the social
and health consequences of religious
commitment when they know more
about the character and range of beliefs
about God that such commitment brings.
This chapter hopes to show, in
particular, that exactly what Christians
believe about the nature of God’s
influence on their lives is likely to have
an important bearing on one of the
questions of this volume: How can
religion encourage a sense of connection
to others, especially in situations of
perceived social isolation, and thereby
assuage the adverse health consequences
of loneliness?

Depending on what they think
God is like, Christians vary in the way
they expect God to be a present
influence on their daily lives. God’s
nature is supernatural or transcendent,
which means God is not very much like
any of the ordinary persons or things
with which they come into regular
contact. Christians use the same terms
for God that they use for talking about
ordinary persons and things but they
therefore know that neither set of terms
is really adequate to capture who or what
God is. On the one hand, God is
something like a human being in that
God loves them and wants to do them
good, and in that God is unhappy with
their failings and trying, through the use
of carrots and sticks, to get them to
change. But, on the other hand, God is
really not very much like an ordinary
human being in that God is present at all
times and everywhere, working
inexorably to bring about what God
intends throughout the entirety of
peoples’ lives by way of influences of
both personal and impersonal sorts--for
example, through personal words of
advice and warning found in the Bible as

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021366
