advisers. “If you can make it in New York, you can’t necessarily make it in Washington.”

OOK Ok

The nature of the role of the modern chief of staff is a focus of much White House
scholarship. As much as the president himself, the chief of staff determines how the White
House and executive branch—which employs 4 million people, including 1.3 million
people in the armed services—will run.

The job has been construed as deputy president, or chief operating officer, or even
prime minister. Larger-than-life chiefs have included Richard Nixon’s H. R. Haldeman
and Alexander Haig; Gerald Ford’s Donald Rumsfeld and Dick Cheney; Jimmy Carter’s
Hamilton Jordan; Ronald Reagan’s James Baker; George H. W. Bush’s return of James
Baker; Bill Clinton’s Leon Panetta, Erskine Bowles, and John Podesta; George W. Bush’s
Andrew Card; and Barack Obama’s Rahm Emanuel and Bill Daley. Anyone studying the
position would conclude that a stronger chief of staff is better than a weaker one, and a
chief of staff with a history in Washington and the federal government is better than an
outsider.

Donald Trump had little, if any, awareness of the history of or the thinking about this
role. Instead, he substituted his own management style and experience. For decades, he
had relied on longtime retainers, cronies, and family. Even though Trump liked to portray
his business as an empire, it was actually a discrete holding company and boutique
enterprise, catering more to his peculiarities as proprietor and brand representative than to
any bottom line or other performance measures.

His sons, Don Jr. and Eric—jokingly behind their backs known to Trump insiders as
Uday and Qusay, after the sons of Saddam Hussein—wondered if there couldn’t somehow
be two parallel White House structures, one dedicated to their father’s big-picture views,
personal appearances, and salesmanship and the other concerned with day-to-day
management issues. In this construct, they saw themselves tending to the day-to-day
operations.

One of Trump’s early ideas was to recruit his friend Tom Barrack—part of his kitchen
cabinet of real estate tycoons including Steven Roth and Richard Lefrak—and make him
chief of staff.

Barrack, the grandson of Lebanese immigrants, is a starstruck real estate investor of
legendary acumen who owns Michael Jackson’s former oddball paradise, Neverland
Ranch. With Jeffrey Epstein—the New York financier who would become a tabloid
regular after a guilty plea to one count of soliciting prostitution that sent him to jail in
2008 in Palm Beach for thirteen months—Trump and Barrack were a 1980s and 90s set
of nightlife Musketeers.

The founder and CEO of the private equity firm Colony Capital, Barrack became a
billionaire making investments in distress debt investments in real estate around the world,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019904
