Case 1:19-cv-03377 Document 1-8 Filed 04/16/19 Page 10 of 16

http://www.vanityfair.com/news/2003/03/jeffrey-epstein-200303

Q: Did you ever hear while you were at Bear Stearns that Mr. Cayne may have trader or insider
information in connection with St. Joe Minerals Corporation?

Q: Did Mr. Cayne ever have any conversation with you about St. Joe Minerals?

Q: Did you happen to overhear any conversations between Mr. Cayne and anyone else regarding
St. Joe Minerals?

And still later in the questioning comes this exchange:

Q: Have you had any type of business dealings with Mr. Cayne?

A: There’s no relationship with Bear Stearns.

Q: Pardon?

A: Other than Bear Stearns, no.

Q: Have you been a participant in any type of business venture with Mr. Cayne?

Q: Do you have any expectation of participating in any business venture with Mr. Cayne?
Q: Have you had any business participations with Mr. Theram?

A: No; nor do I anticipate any.

Q: Mr. Epstein, did anyone at Bear Stearns tell you in words or substance that you should not
divulge anything about St. Joe Minerals to the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission?

Q: Has anyone indicated to you in any way, either directly or indirectly, in words or substance,
that your compensation for this past year or any future monies coming to you from Bear Stearns
will be contingent upon your not divulging information to the Securities and Exchange
Commission?

A: No.

Despite the circumstances of Epstein’s leaving, Bear Stearns agreed to pay him his annual
bonus—which he anticipated as being approximately $100,000.

The S.E.C. never brought any charges against anyone at Bear Stearns for insider trading in St.
Joe, but its questioning seems to indicate that it was skeptical of Epstein’s answers. Some
sources have wondered why, if he was such a big producer at Bear Stearns, he would have given
it up over a mere $2,500 fine.

Certainly the years after Epstein left the firm were not obviously prosperous ones. His luck
didn’t seem to change until he met Hoffenberg.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017780
