146 Teaching Minds

The schools make the same distinction. They do not seriously de-
bate foreign policy in high school, but they do teach how to do num-
ber sequences. There might be those who would say that Palin and
her supporters probably didn’t do well on the math SAT either. But
to me this is just a nonsensical way to look at intelligence. Plenty of
smart people don’t do well in, nor do they care about, math. But smart
people do well in reasoning logically from evidence and in presenting
a coherent argument for their beliefs. This is the essence of what it
means to be smart and to be educated. We expect leaders to be coher-
ent in what they say and to be able to justify their beliefs and actions.
One can assume that those who are bad at number sequences present
no problem for the country in any way, but being bad at detecting
faulty reasoning has its consequences in a democracy.

Here is a bit from the Katie Couric interview with Sarah Palin that
was shown on CBS during the 2008 campaign:

Couric: Why, in your view, is Roe v. Wade a bad decision?

Palin: I think it should be a states’ issue not a federal
government-mandated, mandating yes or no on such an
important issue. I’m, in that sense, a federalist, where I
believe that states should have more say in the laws of their
lands and individual areas. Now, foundationally, also, though
it’s no secret that I’m pro-life, that I believe in a culture of life
is very important for this country. Personally that’s what I
would like to see, um, further embraced by America.

Couric: Do you think there’s an inherent right to privacy in the
Constitution?

Palin: I do. Yeah, I do.

Couric: The cornerstone of Roe v. Wade.

Palin: I do. And I believe that individual states can best handle
what the people within the different constituencies in the 50
states would like to see their will ushered in an issue like that.

Couric: What other Supreme Court decisions do you disagree
with?

Palin: Well, let’s see. There’s, of course in the great history of
America there have been rulings, that’s never going to be
absolute consensus by every American. And there are those
issues, again, like Roe v. Wade, where I believe are best held on
a state level and addressed there. So, you know, going through
the history of America, there would be others but...

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023892
