2] 004/006
05/16/2008 11:16 FAX ioe

05/16/08 FRI 11:09 FAX

80 novel as to implicate the so-called “‘clear statement rule,” the Ex Post Facto clause, or the Due
Process clause. As with the other legal issues, Mr. Acosta may elect to proceed with the case.

Absence of coercion. With respect to 18 U.S.C, § 1591, the alleged absence of the use of
force, fraud, or coercion is of no moment. The statute does not require the use of force, fraud,
and coercion against minors. Because of their age, a degree of coercion is presumed. In your
materials, you note that the statute requires that the minors must be “caused” to engage ina
conunercial sex act, further arguing that the word “cause” suggests that a certain amount of
undue influerice was used, We reject that interpretation, as it would read back into the offense an
element-coercion—that Congress has expressly excluded. We have successfully prosecuted |
defendants for the commercial sexual exploitation of minors, even when the minors testified that
not only did they voluntarily engage in the commercial sex acts, it was their idea to do so. As
such, Mr. Acosta could properly decide to pursue charges under Section 1591 even if there is no
evidence of coercion.

More broadly, a defendant’s criminal liabili ty does not hinge on his victim i dentifying as
having suffered at his hands. Therefore, a prosecution could proceed, should Mr. Acosta decide
to do so, even though some of the young women allegedly have said that they do not view
themselves as victims,

Witness credibility. As all prosecutors know, there are no perfect witnesses. Particularly
in Cases involving exploited children, as one member of your defense team, Ms, Thacker, surely
knows from her work at CEOS, it is not uncommon for victim-witnesses to give conflicting
statements. The prosecutors are in the best position to assess the witness's credibility, Often, the
Prosecutor may decide that the best approach is to present the witness, let defeuse counsel
explore the credibili ty problems on cross-cxamination, and let the jury resolve the issue. Mr.
Acosta would be within his authority to select that approach, especially when here there are
nuultiple, mutually-corroborating witnesses.

Contradictions and omissions in the search warrant application, We have carefully
reviewed the factual issues you raise conceming the search warrant application. For a search
warrant to be suppressed, however, the factual errors must be material, and the officers must nor
have proceeded in good faith, Despite the numerous factual errors you describe, the U.S.
Attomey’s Office could stil] plausibly argue that the mistakes—whether inadvertent or
intentional—were not material to the determination that probable cause existed for a search, and
that the search was in good faith in any event. As such, Mr. Acosta could properly elect to
defend the search warrant in court rather than forego prosecution.

Petite Policy: After reviewing the petite policy and consulting with the Office of
Enforcement Operations (“OEO”), we conclude that the petite policy does not prohibit federal
prosecution in this case, According to the U.S. Attomey’s Manual, the petite policy “applies
whenever there has been a prior state or federal prosecution resulting in an acquittal, a
conviction, including one resulting from a plea agreement, or a dismissal or other termination of

3

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012672
