to be “rich.” I always seem to show up for the school functions or just special days at the school, usually
in casual attire and never obsessing over time or my Blackberry. Now I have people nominating me for
things like committee chair on the PTA, and just recently I was elected to the board of directors at our
local swim/ tennis club. The cool thing is, I actually have the time to do those things and still be
effective at work and at home. It goes without saying that new doors are open to me now. More than ever
before.

With all of this going on around me I still come back to what my daughter said to her teacher. In truth,
I am at a point where if I wanted to “sit around and watch Star Wars all day,” I certainly could. But, I
find myself filling the extra time now doing things that really mean something. Being present in the
everyday lives of my family, helping my community, or volunteering at my church. Now I have a plan to
take it to the next level and write my own book. The project I am working on is called The Virtual
Employee Handbook. It is a collection of tips and how-to’s on all the tools that are essential to the
modern virtual employee, like me. We will see how that goes. One thing I do know is that I wouldn’t
even dream of what I am doing now if it wasn’t for The 4-Hour Workweek! —W. HIGGINS

91. Maya Frost, The New Global Student (Crown, 2009).

92. A simple, actual proposal is provided.

> RESTRICTED READING
The Few That Matter

A hypocrite is a person who— but who isn’t?
— DON MARQUIS

I know, I know. I said not to read too much. Hence, the recommendations here are restricted to the

best of the best this book’s interviewees and I have used and named when asked, “What is the one book
that changed your life the most?”

None of them are required to do what we’ve talked about in this book. That said, consider them if you
get stuck on a particular point. The page counts are listed, and if you practice the exercises in “How to
Read 200% Faster in 10 Minutes” in Chapter 6, you should be able to read at least 2.5 pages per minute
(100 pages thus equals 40 minutes).

For additional categories, including practical philosophy, licensing, and language learning, be sure to
visit our comprehensive companion site.

The Fundamental Four: Let Me Explain

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014029
