South China Morning Post

Monday, November 21,2016 All

INSIGHT

Core strength

Robert Lawrence Kuhn says those who see China’s designation of Xi Jinping as core leader to be a vari

tion

of strongman rule misunderstand its significance for a people navigating their way through huge challenges

hen, at a recent
party plenum,
President Xi Jin-
ping (#2) was
designated as
“core” of the Communist Party's
Central Committee, some Western
media were quick to condemn the
rise of a new “strongman”. While
recognising the significance of Xi as
the core was correct, conjuring up
visions of an emerging dictator was
not.

T recalled my meeting with Xi
years earlier, when he wasstill party
secretary of Zhejiang (‘#f71) prov-
ince. Even then he was criticising
“empty talk” and advising, “We
should never overestimate our
accomplishments or indulge our-
selves in our achievements”.

I took note of how Xi stressed,
“We need to assess ourselves objec-
tively”. Hardly, in retrospect, the
ruminations ofa gestating dictator.

Tounderstand why Xiis nowthe
core, one must appreciate the
complex challenges of our times.
China is now facing multiple chal-
lenges: domestically -slow growth,
industrial overcapacity, endemic
pollution, imbalanced develop-
ment, income disparity, social
injustice, social service demands;
and, internationally—wars, regional
conflicts, sluggish economies, vola-
tile markets, trade protectionism,
ethnic clashes, terrorism, geopoliti-
cal rivalries, and territorial disputes
in the South and East China seas.

Most critically, because China
must deepen its reforms to achieve
its oft-promised goal of a “moder-
ately prosperous society” by 2020,
the resistance of entrenched inter-
est groups must be overcome. More
there is what some call a
pervasive “soft resistance” - local
officials who do not do their job and
economic elites who migrate.

If reform had been progressing
smoothly, then why strengthen
central authority by investing Xi
with the status of core leader? Xihas
encountered obstacles; if there
were no obstacles, there would be
no need fora core leader.

Thave been speaking to party
officials and theorists about Xi as
core leader. In fact, the necessity of
having a leadership core to main-
tain stability and expedite reform is
the first and foremost of what I
found to be four factors relating to
Xi's elevation.

Asecond factor is that not only
does Xi have the responsibility for
China’s transformation, he is also
accountable forit. Moreover, he has
shown courage in confronting and
dismantling a vast, corrupt system
of bribery, patronage and illicit
wealth accretion.

Athird factoris thatXias the core
does not end, and even may not di-
minish, the cardinal principle of

Xi Jinping as

core leader is
more a ratification
of reality than
ashift of
fundamentals

§ he pee

“democratic centralism”. The party
bolsters each of the concepts:
encouraging the democratic sclici-
tation of input and feedback from
members, lower-ranked officials,
and the public; and strengthening
centralism through Xi’s leadershi)
of the principal levers of power (his
positions as party general secretary,
head of state, chairman of the
Central Military Commission, and
head of the “leading groups” on
reform, national security and inter-
net security)

A fourth factor is that a core is
required to manage the party more
strictly and thereby give members
and the public more confidence.
Witness Xi’s relentless and unprec-
edented anti-corruption campaign,
which is altering how government
officials and industry managers
work and even think. Let no one
assume that Xi’s battle against
corruption has been risk-free.

Significantly, these four factors
undergirding Xi as the core leader
map onto his overarching political
framework, his strategic blueprint
called “The Four Comprehensives”
—a moderately prosperous society,
reform, rule of law, party discipline.

Xi’s core status arises, we're told,
through the collective will of the
party and the people. Becoming
party core is not an automatic
consequence of being general sec-
retary; a core leader must fit the
times and the status must be
earned.

Speaking at a press conference
following the 18th Central Commit-
tee's sixth plenum last month,
Huang Kunming (#!#%), executive
vice-minister of the committee's
Publicity Department, said that the
“central and local departments as
well as the military all expressed
their support” for Xi’s position as
party core, adding that this decision

was “based on the valuable experi-
ence of the party and we feel keenly
aboutit”.

Huang explained that “a core is
needed to ensure that the party will
be the governing party”, describing
it as significant for upholding the
Central Committee’s authority and
maintaining the central, unified
leadership of the party and for its
“staying true to its mission”.

Therefore, party theorists
explain, Xi as core leader is more a
ratification of reality than a shift of
fundamentals.

What does Xi as core mean ina
historical context? It was Deng
Xiaoping (9/7) who introduced
the concept when he designated
Jiang Zemin (1) as “core of the
third generation” of central leaders,
bolstering Jiang’s stature following
his unexpected appointment as
party leader in 1989. At the time,
China was facing the dual impedi-
ments of economic stagnation and
social uncertainty at home, and
economic quarantine and diplo-
matic isolation abroad. As Deng
pointed out: “Any leading group
should have a core; a leadership
with no core is unreliable.”

Only then did Deng retrospec-
tively apply the novel term to Mao
Zedong (84) and to himself, as
core of the first and second gener-
ations, respectively. (Of course,
Mao was so utterly dominant that
calling him core during his lifetime
would have seemed a demotion.
Deng remained core even when he
no longer held any official position.)

Today's world is more complex.
China faces threats at home and
abroad. Volatility grows and uncer-
tainty abounds ~ the Middle East
and Donald Trump are offered as
evidence. The need to secure
China’s stability is more essential
than ever, and thus to strengthen

Xi’'s authority is a primary reason,
I’m told, for designating Xi as core
leader. Party theorists say China
“urgently” requires a political nucl-
eus that is sophisticated and
nuanced, attuned to contemporary
times. Though conditions now
differ from those in 1989, Deng’s
admonition rings timelessly true.

However, that a core leader is
needed now does notmean one will
always be needed. When China
becomesa fully modernised nation,
perhaps by mid-century, condi-
tions may change again.

True loyalty is
telling leadership
in private what
one really
believes is in their
best interests

Thear frequently of the “painful
lessons of China's century of blood
and tears” and that for China not to
have a tested and authoritative
leadership core would be “unthink-
able”, Party inner talk says “Xi
Jinping has passed the test of the
people” to be China's political core,
leadership core, and a core of the
times.

Chinese scholars argue that
“core” is a unique characteristic of
Chinese political theory — however
inapplicable (even inexplicable) in
Western political theory. They call
Western concerns that Xi as core
leader means that “a new emperor
is born” wildly unfounded, even
paranoic. In feudal society, the
emperor ruled unconditionally

with arbitrary imperial power, and
insucha“command-obey’ system,
goes the argument, there is simply
noneed foracore.

Rather, given today’s party polit-
ical structure, the concept ofa core
both strengthens cohesion and
serves to prevent a personality cult,
not to promote one. Having a core
means acknowledging that the
party system is not the “emperor
system —absolute poweris rejected
—and that the optimum system, at
least for the foreseeable future, is a
combination of concentrated cen-
tralism and democratic collective
leadership.

Corroborating this functional
balance, in the communiquéissued
following the sixth plenum, the
“collective leadership system” is
reconfirmed. It states: “The imple-
mentation of collective leadership
and personal division oflabouris an
important component of demo-
cratic centralism and must always
beadhered to.” And itstresses: “Any
organisation or individual shall,
under any circumstance, not be
allowed to violate this system for
anyreason.” Thethree “any’s” seem
no accident.

Some analysts see contradic-
tions. On the one hand, the
communiqué calls for democracy
and constructive criticism internal-
ly within the party. On the other,
disobeying the central leadership is
forbidden, backed by vigilant
supervision and tough discipline.

Yet to read these statements as
contradictory is to misunderstand
what is happening here. Xi appreci-
ates the complex and arduous tasks
that lie ahead. He told me so a
decade ago, and it is obviously truer
today than it was then. The state-
ments are harmonised, first, by the
party's motivation toseekoptimum
peices forthecountry, and second,

y keeping most of the divergent
views internal.

True loyalty is telling leadership
in private what one really believes is
in their bestinterests, not pandering
and fawning by repeating what one
thinks leadership wants to hear.
Though there are concerns, no one
here worries that Xi will become
Mao.

China is now the world’s largest
trading nation and its second-larg-
est economy. China's diplomacy is
expanding and its military is grow-
ing. Fromits Belt and Road initiative
building infrastructure and facili-
tating trade in over 60 developing
countries to its leading role in the
UN peacekeeping forces, China, the
“Middle Kingdom’, is involved in
every meaningful matter of interna-
tional affairs.

So, what kind of China do we
want? Certainly not one with weak
central leadership and fragmented
citadels of power. With its huge and
imbalanced population, and its
diverse culture and traditions,
China today requires a leader with
sufficient strength and prestige to
secure social stability, drive eco-
nomic reform, and guide it in being
a responsible world power. Xi as
core leader should be good for
China and, thus, for the world.

Robert Lawrence Kuhn isa public
intellectual, political/economics
commentator, and an international
corporate strategist. He spoke at the
launch ceremony of President Xi
Jinping’s book, The Governance of
China, and is the host of Closer to
China with R. L. Kuhn, a weekly show
on CCTV News produced by Adam Zhu

Bring down the curtain on this idiotic political drama

feel you. It’s draining, to say the

least, especially when the
melodrama in Hong Kongis
dragging out; it has become
downright dreadful when we know
there is no respite in sight.

We were supposed to havea
brief break after last September's
Legislative Council polls, before the
next big event. Even though a large
number of people will be unable to
casta vote in the Election
Committee subsector elections,
less than a month away, and in the
chief executive election, scheduled
for late March next year, the city
should by now be focusing on
what's ahead.

But, thanks to the two recently
disqualified lawmakers, who lacked.
the necessary knowledge, ability
and respect for oath-taking, our
(albeit dystunctcnal) legislature
has basically been shut down fora
month. The ugly politics that
should have been insulated within

[ee ofall the politics, 1

Alice Wu has had enough of the brouhaha over the
oath-taking by two lawmakers. Now that they’ve
been disqualified, HK must focus on battles ahead

the chamber once again spilled out
onto our streets.

And what should have been
decided and concluded on
September4 isnow dragging on
indefinitely, with two or possibly
more by-elections added to the
election overload.

Hell-raising politics is not going
away any time soon, but the sheer
stupidity of the localist pair's
actions really is one for the books—
Macbeth, in fact:

Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and
tomorrow, / Creeps in this pet e
from day today, - pape

To the last syllable of recorded
time, /Andallour yesterdays have
lighted fools

The way to dusty death. Out, out,

briefcandle!/ Life's buta walking
shadow, a poor player

Thatsthutsdnd pets ‘his hour
upon the stage/And then is heard
no more. Itisa tale

Told byan idiot, fullofsound
and fury, / Signifying nothing.

hey wet tee hlloound
and fury, and they did nothing for
thecommon good.

What they did opened the door
for an invitation to the courts to
intervene. What they did presented
an opportunity foran
interpretation of the Basic Law by
the National People’s Congress
Standing Committee.

What they did, oltenatey may
well become the precedent for
other legislators to be similarly

barred. And that is why the duo's
pledge to spend every penny—and
lest we forget, this also means the
mounting cost to the public purse—
to “appeal atall costs” isbeyond
rich, coming from them.

Clearly, they have yet to wrap
their heads around the concept of
“personal responsibility”. Sixtus
Baggio Leung Chung-hang is
wrong in believing that their
disqualification from Legco
rendered the election meaningless.
They have no one but themselves
to blame for their defenestration. It
istheywho made the election
meaningless.

And, to add insult to the grave
injury they brought on the rest of
us, they are asking for donations. At
some point—ifwe're not there
already—we must take serious
offence to be taken as fools, again
and again. The curtain must now
be drawn on this overly played-out
second act.

The irony may be lost on the

pat butit's pretty obvious who has
een played for total fools. In case
theyhaven’tnoticed, the
lawmakers who served as the duo's
chaperones have stopped
babysitting them because there is
no value in being their keepers any
more. Escorting the duo's Legco
gate-crashing attempts served their
purpose: to usher the two straight
to their political end, and the votes
the two rendered meaningless are
now political spoils.

The two took the toxic brewand
there will be no stay of execution
that could stop those ready to
contest their seats.

Wemust fight our political
fatigue. We can ill afford to be
distracted by those who
continuously try to foolishly make
their own stupid mistakes our
collective problem.

Alice Wu isa political consultant and
a former associate director of the
Asia Pacific Media Network at UCLA

> CONTACT US: Agree or disagree with the opinions on this page? Write to us at letters@scmp.com. If you have an idea for an opinion article, email itto oped@scmp.com

The basic law

of unintended
consequences

Mike Rowse says the continuing

political tussles in HK illustrate the

pain of being caught in a cycle of
actions and reactions, and we must
address the root cause of the grievances

the Basic Lawand the rule of law, and their

interaction. Perhaps neglected in the process has
been a different but relevant concept: the law of
unintended consequences, whereby an action gives
rise to outcomes unforeseen by the instigator.

Hong Kong's tortuous path towards political reform
isacase in point. The first reference to the idea of
universal suffrage for selection of the chief executive
comes in Article 45 of the Basic Law, promulgated back
in 1990. Looking towards 1997, its purpose was to
reassure. Naturally, attention turned to the subject in
the early part of this century. While people understood
that the move towards universal suffrage had to be in
accordance with the “principle of gradual and orderly
progress”, the reform package put forward in 2014 was
widely perceived as disappointing; the plan to stick
with an unrepresentative nominating committee
deciding who could enter the race was unpalatable.

The State Council's white paper on the governance
of Hong Kong, intended to set things straight, only
stirred things up and led to the Occupy Central
protests. The governmentlet the action linger, hoping
public anger would pay dividends in the 2016
Legislative Council election. While the 79 days of
disruption did bring the protesters momentary
opprobrium, memories quickly faded. In the election,
the pro-government share of the vote actually fell, and
the attack on the idea of independence led directly toa
near 20 percent share of the vote for a localist faction.
This was surely not the objective.

Now the government is trying to overturn the
election outcome. The practice of banning some
potential candidates from standing, then using all
means at hand to unseat some of those elected, is a
tactic more usually associated with third-world
countries following a military coup.

Has something been lost in
translation here? Perhaps
we need an interpretation
of the interpretation

In the short term, the judicial review sought by the
chief executive against the decision by Legco president
Andrew Leung Kwan-yuen to give Sixtus Baggio Leung
Chung-hang and Yau Wai-ching another opportunity
to take the oath has been successful. Mr Justice
‘Thomas Au Hing-cheung ruled in the High Court that
their oaths were invalid, they should notbe given a
second chance and their positions should immediately
be vacated, Many observers thought he might decline
toruleatall, and simply refer the matter back to the
Legco president. The problem with one arm of the
administration delving too deeply into the processes of
anotheris thatit inevitably generates more requests to
doso. And, sure enough, we now have legal challenges
against more legislators, plus. challenge against the
chief executive himself.

Given that, in the past, other Legco members who
had politicised their swearing-in and then done it
properly second time round were permitted to take up
their seats, did Leung and Yau havea “legitimate
expectation” that they would enjoy similar treatment?
The Legco president certainly thought so, hence his
origin: ruling Nowitis for ahigher court to decide.

Meanwhile, the National People's Congress
Standing Committee has sought to clarify Article 104 of
the Basic Law, which requires all people concemed to
“swear to uphold the Basic Law of the Hong Kong
special administrative region of the People’s Republic
of China and swear allegiance” to it. But the
interpretation is different: it talks of “a legal pledge ... to
the People’s Republic of China and its Hong Kong
Special Administrative Region” (emphasis added). Has
something been lost in translation here? Perhaps we
need an interpretation of the interpretation.

If, atthe end of the day, there are two (ormore)
vacant Legco seats, then we are in by-election territory.
Idon’t think the people are fooled for one minute
about whatis going on. In each constituen
impeccable opposition candidate will stand, wina
majority, and take the oath impeccably. Unfortunately,
this tragedy - or farce —will continue until the
government starts to address the underlying
grievances over the lack of meaningful political reform
instead of just hammering the symptoms, which
generates new grievances in the process.

r | here has been a considerable focus recently on

Mike Rowse is the CEO of Treloar Enterprises and an
adjunct professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong.
mike@rowse.com.hk

Ayellow umbrella, a symbol of the Occupy movement,
is used ina recent protest against Beijing. Photo: Reuters

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023688
