Europe's aggressive commissioner overseeing competition, is still investigating aspects of
Google's business and whether Amazon plays fair in the market for generic products.

° President Trump has said his administration is seriously looking into monopolistic
behavior of Facebook, Google and Amazon.

Some analysts predict an economic slowdown — even if it doesn’t lead to a recession like
the one in 2008 — will be enough to change the global attitude around big American
companies.

So the really shocking thing this year is that the only major economy in the world where
growth has actually accelerated this year is America. And this is because of the tax cuts, the
deregulation, the other stimulus which has been put into work. And that has also helped the
earnings of companies. My point is, from next year onwards, those effects begin to fade.

— Ruchir Sharma, chief global strategist at Morgan Stanley on Fareed Zakaria GPS
on Sunday

The FAANG stocks (Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix and Google) that pushed the
stock market to record highs have not been immune from this year's market rout.

° The mood has changed. Investors are asking a lot more questions right now, says
Larry Glazer, a Managing Partner at Mayflower Advisors, which manages $3 billion.
Momentum has faded on these names.

° Adding to potential concern: possible regulatory action could translate into higher
costs, particularly for Google or Facebook.

° Facebook has been under such a dark cloud for so long that now everybody is
expecting the worst, Paul Meeks, a technology portfolio manager at Wireless Fund, told
AX10s.

The other side: I don't see a looming recession. And even if there was, people aren't going
to target these companies if there is a recession, says Nicholas Economides, Professor of
Economics at NYU Stern School of Business.

° Economides argues that, even if there was a mild reduction in GDP growth, it
wouldn't significantly impact the high tech sector.

° For companies like Google, Facebook and Twitter, their main revenue streams are
from ads. They gain market share from brands converting traditional ad spend to digital ads.
This conversion is not so dependent on the growth of GDP, because they are still in the
process of converting ads of different formats to digital ads, and that's something that will
continue, regardless of GDP growth.

The bottom line: Tech companies that have long been the darlings of investor portfolios
will likely find themselves in much weaker positions.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_033421
