present certainties over future certainties. The reason is studied in a branch of
economics called “capital theory”. My next generation theory, really Petty’s of 1662,
proposes what the average-risk time discount rate is and why. Present value of each
expected instant of future satisfaction grows at that rate as time shortens the
discount period. It disappears, as apples from the tree, when expectation matures

into reality.

This diamond ring parable is full of useful lessons. | think it contains substantially all
of economics. “Consider the lilies of the field.” “They also serve who only stand and
wait.” A chemist would testify that the ring has done nothing. An economist sees
plenty happening. Economics is abstraction. Physical capital is not things, and
human capital is not people. It’s all in the mind. What an economist sees is present
value evolving with time as expectations ripen and eventuate. Output is not what we
do, although it has to do with what we do. It is the passage of time. Exhaust is the

fruition of time and the harvest reaped.

Only when we allow psychic values can we say that all behavior is economic

behavior. It is choices among alternatives. That’s what makes economics philosophy.

Axioms

Then what should its axioms be? We would like empirical or real-world certainties. |
find none beyond Descarte’s cogito. Philosophy is certain of next to nothing. We
settle for working assumptions. We want ones as safe and few as possible. Those of
economics have usually been left implicit since the marginalist revolution. I dropped
the course because | felt their need. It should do no harm, at this point, to risk the

opposite extreme. Let’s try putting everything on the table.

My first axiom, in that spirit, will be unguided natural causality. This need not alarm
the devout. It is the working assumption of all science. Working assumptions are
not creeds. | cannot rule out the possibility of occasional or even continuous

intervention by God to explain what we see. But we know to act as if we ruled it out

Chapter 3: Foundations 1/11/16 4

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010975
