ALLEN GUTHRIE MCHUGH & THOMAS, PLLC

Mr. John Roth
June 19, 2008
Page 4

text and history indicate, these statutes were designed to address problems that are truly national
and international in scope: human trafficking in § 1591; telephone or Internet sexual predation in
§ 2422; and sex tourism in § 2423. Unlike the alleged conduct at issue here, those problems
unquestionably present multi-jurisdictional obstacles that States and localities cannot confront
effectively on their own. Mr. Epstein’s conduct was purely local in nature, and the State of
Florida and Palm Beach County are effectively prosecuting and punishing that conduct.

Although CEOS asserts, “that a prosecution of Mr. Epstein might not look precisely like the
cases that came before it is not dispositive” (CEOS letter at p. 4), the fact is this case does not look
anything like those cases. The facts here do not carry any of the hallmarks that typify an appropriate
federal prosecution for child exploitation as reflected in all such prior federal prosecutions.
Specifically, the facts here do not carry the hallmarks for a sex trafficking or child prostitution
prosecution.. Mr. Epstein did not target minors. In fact, the evidence indicates just the opposite.
There was no travel in interstate commerce for the purpose of engaging in illicit sexual activity.
There was no prohibited use ofa facility of interstate commerce. There was no commercial for profit
sexual enterprise. There was no force. There was no violence. There was no use of drugs or
alcohol. There was no child pornography. .

18 U.S.C. § 1591 is clearly designed to combat organized rings of individuals who engage in
the business of human trafficking, involving both a commercial and coercive component. As
President Bush has noted:

generally speaking, trafficking in persons refers to actions, often including the use of
force, fraud or coercion, to compel someone into a situation in which he or she will
be exploited for sexual purposes, which could include prostitution or pornography, or
for labor without compensation, which could include forced or bonded labor. . .
trafficking in persons is often linked to organized crime, and the profits from
trafficking enterprises help fund other illegal activities. The growth of vast
transnational criminal networks supported in part by trafficking in persons fosters
official corruption and threatens the rule of law.”

This in no way describes the case here. Yet the USAO has been unwavering in its single
minded focus to stretch the limits of these federal statutes beyond their intended use, and beyond
precedent, in order to prosecute Mr. Epstein. As the CEOS letter acknowledges, the legal theories
the USAO intends to attempt to pursue against Mr. Epstein are “novel,” having never before been
sanctioned by federal law. They should not be sanctioned now. As the Supreme Court recently
pronounced, when a statutory term in a criminal statute could support both a narrow or broad
application of the federal criminal law, “the tie must go to the defendant.” United States v. Santos,
553 U.S.___ and Cuellar v. United States, 553 U.S ___ (June 2, 2008), Slip Op. at 6.

2 February 25, 2003 Trafficking in Persons National Security Presidential Directive.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012186
