Whistle-blower | 97

stay and fight the United States government in the courts.” That bit
of braggadocio would not be proven out.

Greenwald, Poitras, and MacAskill in their reporting did not
concern themselves with any of the mechanics of the largest theft
of top secret documents in the history of the United States. In the
entire filmed interview at the Mira hotel, for example, they did not
ask their source how he managed to get access to the documents.
Lam, however, asked him about how he widened his access. When
she asked him why he had switched jobs from Dell to Booz Allen
Hamilton in March 2013, his answer provided her with a real scoop:
“My position with Booz Allen Hamilton granted me access to lists
of machines all over the world the NSA hacked.” Snowden told her
that he deliberately went to Booz Allen Hamilton to get access to
the “lists” revealing the NSA’s sources in foreign countries. This
admission could further complicate his legal situation in Hong Kong
because it suggested that he meant to steal documents even before
he had known their content. In fact, to protect himself, he restricted
Lam from publishing this part of the interview until after he had

© departed Hong Kong. (It was not published until June 24, a day after ©
he arrived in Russia.) This condition indicated to Lam that as early
as June 12, if not before, he was planning on leaving Hong Kong.

His interview with Lam didn’t reveal how he had learned about
these “lists” before taking the job. Nor did he reveal to her what he
planned to do with these lists. He made it clear to her, however, that
he had not disposed of all his secret documents. “If I have time to go
through this information,” he said, “I would like to make it avail-
able to journalists in each country to make their own assessment,
independent of my bias, as to whether or not the knowledge of US
network operations against their people should be published.” So as
late as June 12, Snowden was still reading and assessing the files he
had stolen from the NSA four weeks earlier.

Poitras vetted the Lam interview. Soon afterward, she suspected
that she was being followed. That was likely, because by June 14 all
the intelligence services in Hong Kong knew that she was in contact
with Snowden.

“I was being tailed,” Poitras recalled in an interview with a Vogue

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 97 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019585
