Supreme Court Rejects Newman Requirement of “Pecuniary or Similarly Valuable” Personal
Benefit for Insider Trading Liability for Tipping Family and Friends (continued from page 2)

The Supreme Court affirmed Salman's conviction,
holding that a gift of inside information to family or
friends is sufficient to prove a “personal benefit”
for insider trading tipping liability. The Court rea-
soned that such a gift can be inferred to “provide
the equivalent of a cash gift.”* Specifically, the
Court reasoned that if the tipper personally traded
on inside information himself for a profit, but gave
the proceeds to his brother, the tipper received a
personal benefit (cash) and is liable for insider
trading. So, it reasoned, where a tipper achieves
effectively the same result by gifting the informa-
tion to his brother with the expectation that the
brother will trade on the information to obtain a
cash profit, the result should be the same.

Importantly, the Supreme Court explicitly stated
that it was narrowing the Second Circuit’s land-
mark Newman decision. It stated, “[t]o the extent
the Second Circuit held that the tipper must also
receive something of a ‘pecuniary or similarly
valuable nature’ in exchange for a gift to family
or friends,... we agree with the Ninth Circuit that
this requirement is inconsistent with Dirks,” a prior
Supreme Court ruling.’ This significantly lowers the
standard of proof for insider trading tipping liability
in cases involving family or friends. The govern-
ment often cannot find evidence of money or a sim-
ilarly valuable quid pro quo between the tipper and
tippee in insider trading cases. So it is much easier
to prove a case of insider trading by arguing that
the exchange of information was a “gift,” which

essentially only requires some evidence (even cir-
cumstantial evidence such as phone logs) that the
tipper gave information to the tippee.

So where does this leave the Newman decision?
The Newman decision itself was not overturned by
the Supreme Court, because Newman also relied
on the lack of proof that the tippees who traded on
inside information knew that the tippers provided

the s

es er tt mdi ing t

|2 tv in epee tha rome
liability in cases inv

C .

family or friend

DN
.

inside information in exchange for a personal ben-
efit—especially since the tippees were several
steps removed from the original tippers. In addi-
tion, Newman's “pecuniary or similarly valuable”
benefit test should still apply to cases that do not
involve tipping family or friends.

Nevertheless, the Sa/man decision tips the scales
back in favor of the government in tipping insider
trading cases. The SEC and federal prosecutors
have shown in the past that they will bring cases

S&G INVESTMENT

MANAGER Alert

Please send comments to cspratt@sglawyers.com

Visit the Sadis & Goldberg LLP website at

based on alleged gifts of inside information to
mere social acquaintances, fellow employees, or
networking contacts—using strained arguments
of “friendship.” And they will bring insider trad-
ing cases based solely on circumstantial evidence
(e.g, a pattern of phone calls) where there is no
direct proof of trading based on inside informa-
tion. Accordingly, with Sa/man imposing a lower
standard of proof, it is imperative that clients
contact counsel immediately at the first hint of a
government insider trading investigation.

| Salman v. U.S., No. 15-628, 580 U.S.
6, 2016).

2773 F.3d 438, 452 (2d Cir. 2014).
3 Salman, Slip Op. at 9-10.
Id. at 10.

., Slip op. (Dec.

Samuel J. Lieberman is a Partner
in the Securities Litigation Group
of Sadis & Goldberg LLP. He regu-
larly handles high-profile securities
litigation, enforcement actions, and jj
government investigations on behalf
of companies and individuals. He has handled investi-
gations covering a wide-range of securities law issues
before the SEC, FINRA, CFTC, CFE/CBOE, and CME. He
has also handled precedent-setting cases addressing
corporate governance, including in Delaware Chancery
Court. His recent representations have been profiled in
the Wall Street Journal, the New York Times, the New
York Post, Bloomberg, Reuters and Law360. Sam also
regularly advises companies and individuals about
compliance programs and preparing for SEC compliance
examinations. Sam can be reached at 712.573.8164, or
slieberman @sglawyers.com.

November 8, 2017
The New York Athletic Club
80 Central Park South * New York, New York I(

ad

sglawyers.com 5:00 to 9:00 pm

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019858
