discussions, on September 24, 2007, Epstein signed an agreement with the U.S. Attorney’s
Office for the Southern District of Florida. Under the agreement, Epstein agreed to plead guilty
to an indictment pending against him in the 15™ Judicial Circuit in and for Palm Beach County
charging him with solicitation of prostitution and procurement of minors for prostitution.
Epstein also agreed that he would receive a thirty month sentence, including 18 months of jail
time and 12 months of community control. In exchange, the U.S. Attorney’s Office agreed not to
pursue any federal charges against Epstein. See Non-Prosecution Agreement (Exhibit “K”).

27. Part of the Non-Prosecution Agreement that Epstein negotiated was a provision in
which the federal government agreed not to prosecute Epstein’s co-conspirators. The co-
conspirators procured minor females to be molested by Epstein. One of the co-conspirators -
Nadia Marcinkova -even participated in the sex acts with minors (including E.W.) and Epstein.
See Incident Report, Exhibit “A”, at 40-42, 49-51; Deposition of Nadia Marcinkova, April 13,
2010, (hereinafter ““Marcinkova Depo.”) at 11 (Deposition attachment #9).

28. | Under the Non-Prosecution Agreement, Epstein was to use his “best efforts” to
enter into his guilty pleas by October 26, 2007. However, Edwards learned that Epstein violated
his agreement with the U.S. Attorney’s Office to do so and delayed entry of his plea. See Letter
from U.S. Attorney R. Alexander Acosta to Lilly Ann Sanchez, Dec. 19, 2007 (Exhibit “L”).

29. On January 10, 2008 and again on May 30, 2008 E.W. and L.M. received letters
from the FBI advising them that “[t]his case is currently under investigation. This can be a
lengthy process and we request your continued patience while we conduct a thorough
investigation.” Letters attached at Composite Exhibit “M”. This document is evidence that the

FBI did not notify E.W. and L.M. that a plea agreement had already been reached that would
13

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010578
