Federal Register/Vol. 76, No. 168/Tuesday, August 30, 2011/Rules and Regulations

54023

exercising one right and not the other
would upset the balanced recitation of
rights. If employees have questions
concerning how they can exercise their
rights, the notice encourages them to
contact the Board.

The Board has also determined that
the addition of Beck rights in the final
notice is unnecessary. Those rights
apply only to employees who are
represented by unions under collective-
bargaining agreements containing
union-security provisions. As stated in
the NPRM, unions that seek to obligate
employees to pay dues and fees under
those provisions are required to inform
those employees of their Beck rights.
See California Saw & Knife Works,
above, 320 NLRB at 233. See 75 FR at
80412-80413. The Board was presented
with no evidence during this
rulemaking that suggests that unions are
not generally complying with their
notice obligations. In addition, the
Notice of Election, which is posted days
before employees vote on whether to be
represented by a union, contains an
explanation of Beck rights. Moreover, as
the Board stated in the NPRM, only
about 8 percent of all private sector
employees are represented by unions,
and by no means are all of them subject
to union-security clauses. Accordingly,
the number of employees to whom Beck
applies is significantly smaller than the
number of employees in the private
sector covered by the NLRA. Id. at
80413. Indeed, in the “‘right-to-work’”’
states, where union-security clauses are
prohibited, no employees are covered by
union security clauses, with the
possible exception of employees who
work in a Federal enclave where state
laws do not apply. Accordingly, because
Beck does not apply to the
overwhelming majority of employees in
today’s private sector workplace, and
because unions already are obliged to
inform the employees to whom it does
apply of their Beck rights, the Board is
not including Beck notification in the
final notice.

The Board also disagrees with the
comment from Baker & McKenzie
contending that an exhaustive list of
additional rights should be included in
the notice. In addition to the reasons
discussed above, the Board finds that it
would not be appropriate to include
those rights, most of which are rights of
union members vis-a-vis their unions.
For example, the comment suggests
including the “right for each union
member to insist that his/her dues and
initiation fees not be increased * * *
except by a majority vote by secret
ballot * * *,” the ‘‘right of each
employee in a bargaining unit to receive
a copy of the collective bargaining

agreement,” and the “‘right to nominate
candidates, to vote in elections of the
labor organization, to attend
membership meetings, and to
participate in the deliberations and
voting upon business properly before
the meeting.” Those rights are not found
in the NLRA, but instead arise from
other Federal labor laws not
administered by the NLRB. See Labor-
Management Reporting and Disclosure
Act of 1959, 29 U.S.C. 401 et seq
(LMRDA). The Board finds that it would
be inappropriate to include those
additional rights in a notice informing
employees of their rights under the
NLRA.

vi. Other Comments

The Board has also considered, but
rejected, the contention that the notice
contain simply a “short and plain”
description of rights such as that used
in remedial notices. See Ishikawa
Gasket America, Inc., above. The two
notices have different purposes: one
looks back; the other, forward. As
explained in the NPRM, the principal
purpose of a remedial notice is to
inform employees of unlawful conduct
that has taken place and what is being
done to remedy that conduct.
Accordingly, although a remedial notice
contains only a brief summary of NLRA
rights, it also contains examples of
unlawful actions that have been
committed. To the extent that such a
notice generally increases employees’
awareness of their rights, the unlawful
conduct detailed adds to that awareness.
The proposed notice, by contrast, is a
notice intended to make employees
aware of their NLRA rights generally. It
normally will not be posted against a
background of already-committed unfair
labor practices; it therefore needs to
contain a summary both of NLRA rights
and examples of unlawful conduct in
order to inform employees effectively of
the extent of their NLRA rights and of
the availability of remedies for
violations of those rights. Moreover, as
the Board explained in the NPRM, the
general notice of rights posted in the
pre-election notice is sufficient because
at least one union along with the
employer is on the scene to enlighten
employees of their rights under the
NLRA. 75 FR 80412 fn.19.

The fundamental rights described in
the notice are well established and have
been unchanged for much of the Board’s
history. Accordingly, the Board does not
share the concern expressed in some
comments that a new notice will have
to be posted each time the composition
of the Board changes.

Finally, the Board rejects the
contention that the notice should

address certain rights of employers. The
notice is intended to inform employees
of their rights, not those of their
employers.

For all the foregoing reasons, the
Board finds it unnecessary to modify the
section of the notice summarizing
employees’ NLRA rights.

c. The Examples of Unlawful Employer
Conduct in the Notice

The proposed notice contained the
following examples of unlawful
conduct:

Under the NLRA, it is illegal for your
employer to:

Prohibit you from soliciting for a union
during non-work time, such as before or after
work or during break times; or from
distributing union literature during non-work
time, in non-work areas, such as parking lots
or break rooms.

Question you about your union support or
activities in a manner that discourages you
from engaging in that activity.

Fire, demote, or transfer you, or reduce
your hours or change your shift, or otherwise
take adverse action against you, or threaten
to take any of these actions, because you join
or support a union, or because you engage in
concerted activity for mutual aid and
protection, or because you choose not to
engage in any such activity.

Threaten to close your workplace if
workers choose a union to represent them.

Promise or grant promotions, pay raises, or
other benefits to discourage or encourage
union support.

Prohibit you from wearing union hats,
buttons, t-shirts, and pins in the workplace
except under special circumstances.

Spy on or videotape peaceful union
activities and gatherings or pretend to do so.
75 FR 80419.

The Board received limited comments
on six of the seven examples of
unlawful employer conduct. As a
general matter, some comments contend
that the number of examples of
employer misconduct is
disproportionate compared to the
examples of union misconduct.1°® Most
of the comments refer to the number of
paragraphs devoted to illegal employer
conduct (7) and the number of
paragraphs devoted to illegal union
conduct (5). Several comments indicate
that when one compares the employer
misconduct listed in Section 8(a) of the
NLRA with union misconduct listed in
Section 8(b), no such imbalance appears
in the text of the statute. Several
comments provide additional examples
of union misconduct that they say
should be included.

As with the notice’s statement of
affirmative rights, some of the

108 See, e.g., comments of COLLE, Baker &
McKenzie, National Association of Manufacturers,
and American Trucking Association.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022294
