dehumanization, and self-deception which each have both beneficial and toxic personalities, so too does
globalization. Globalization has integrated developing countries into the global economy and allowed
them to profit from new resources and advances. But globalization has also fragmented these countries
by giving them access to resources that corrupt, such as arms for guerrilla leaders and rogue armies. What
has changed in the twenty-first century, perhaps as early as the 1990s, is a new form of war, one that is
tied to the signature of evil and its expression as excessive harm. No longer are wars confined to state
borders, restricted to states and their legitimized militaries, financed by governments and tax revenues,
and focused on combatants. Instead, the new wars of the twenty-first century have entirely porous
boundaries, are funded by private organizations, run by grass-root groups, and motivated by the use of
horrific means to achieve equally horrific ends, including torture, rape, mutilation, and the use and abuse
of civilians, women, children and men alike. As a result, international law is effectively, ineffective.
Those running these new wars are outside of international law.

The consequence of the new wars extends beyond the travesties experienced by those living in
these hot spots to the humanitarian aid workers and journalists who attempt to help the victims.
Humanitarian aid is often pirated by rogue militias, and journalists are frequently killed or badly injured.
We must therefore face the sad reality that as we ended the twentieth-century and initiated the twenty-
first, casualties to non-combatant civilians shifted from few to many. We must face the reality that
combating evil will require new laws and new protections for those who risk their lives to aid victims and
give voice to their often silent suffering.

Evil ever after?

We won't eradicate evil. Why? Because the capacity for evil is rooted in human nature, born of a
promiscuous mind that enables ideas and feelings to flip between beneficial and toxic. Though we
institute programs and practices that promote the beneficial, living within every human mind is a toxic
neighbor, waiting to move in. Adhering to authorities is beneficial in that great leaders are energizing,
empowering, creative, and a source of guidance into a brighter future. But even great leaders can turn
toxic, imposing corrosive ideologies and eliminating basic human rights. Conformity is beneficial in that
we want to live in a society where norms are followed, providing stability and cooperation. But
conformity is toxic when it leads to blind faith and uncritical thinking. Dehumanization is beneficial in
allowing us to carry out medical procedures and live with certain kinds of human suffering. But
dehumanization is toxic when it facilitates ethnic cleansing by shrinking the moral circle, turning
atrocities into virtuous offerings. Tolerance and pluralism are beneficial in that they lead to respect and
concern for others’ attitudes and desires. But tolerance and pluralism are toxic when they breed apathy
and a willingness to stand by as passive bystanders.

My diagnosis of evil is not meant to be defeatist, but realist. It is only through an
acknowledgment of our biology and the environments it has created — and can create — that we can look
for solutions to ameliorate the human condition. We are all vulnerable to walking on the wrong side. We
are fallible. We are also enormously creative, capable of great change. Like no other species, we
relentlessly seek novelty. No one wants to be like his or her predecessor. Whether it is a new culinary
tradition, extreme sport, technological innovation, musical genre, or weapon of destruction, our search for
novelty is an indestructible component of human nature.

Our journey into the nature of evil has come to an end. Bombarded by the sheer magnitude of
lives lost or damaged beyond repair, it is natural to deaden our senses and choke our feelings in the hope
of finding solitude and peace. As painful as a re-awakening is, we must remember the individuals that
make up these massive atrocities. Reflecting upon the loss of his son who was murdered by the Lord's
Resistance Army, an 80 year old Ugandan chief summed it up— We have been forgotten. It’s as if we
don’t exist.

We must never forget. We must never deny our potential to cause horrific pain and suffering
while finding ways to forgive and express deep compassion. We must never give up on humanity.

Hauser Epilogue. Evilightenment 150

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012896
