o Oo sS HD A BP WD NH

NO NO NO BD NO KH NYO NY Ow mR ee mee
oOo ss DWH WH FP WD NO ยง|ยง DOD O CO ss HDB nH & WH NH K& OC

Case 5:16-cv-00797-DMG-KS Document1 Filed 04/26/16 Page4of6 Page ID#:4

15. Shortly after this sexual assault by the Defendant, Jeffrey E. Epstein, on the Plaintiff, Katie
Johnson, Plaintiff Johnson was still present while the two Defendants were arguing over who would
be the one to take Plaintiff Johnson's virginity. The Defendant, Donald J. Trump, was clearly heard
referring to Defendant, Jeffrey E. Epstein, as a Jew Bastard as he yelled at Defendant Epstein, that
clearly, he, Defendant Trump, should be the lucky one to pop the cherry of Plaintiff Johnson.

16. The third and final sexual assault by the Defendant, Jeffrey E. Epstein, on the Plaintiff, Kati
Johnson, took place after Plaintiff Johnson had been brutally and savagely raped by Defendant
Trump. While receiving another full body massage from Plaintiff Johnson, while in the nude,
Defendant Epstein became so enraged after finding out that Defendant Trump had been the one to
take Plaintiff Johnson's virginity, that Defendant Epstein also violently raped Plaintiff Johnson.
After forcing Plaintiff Johnson to disrobe into her bra and panties, while receiving a massage from
the Plaintiff, Defendant Epstein attempted to enter Plaintiff Johnson's anal cavity with his erect
penis while trying to restrain her. Plaintiff Johnson attempted to push Defendant Epstein away, at
which time Defendant Epstein attempted to enter Plaintiff Johnson's vagina with his erect penis.
This attempt to brutally sodomize and rape Plaintiff Johnson by Defendant Epstein was finally
repelled by Plaintiff Johnson but not before Defendant Epstein was able to achieve sexual orgasm.
After perversely sodomizing and raping the Plaintiff, Katie Johnson, the Defendant, Jeffrey E.
Epstein, attempted to strike her about the head with his closed fists while he angrily screamed at
Plaintiff Johnson that he, Defendant Epstein, should have been the one who took her cherry, not
Mr. Trump, before she finally managed to break away from Defendant Epstein.

17. The Plaintiff, Katie Johnson, was fully warned on more than one occasion by both
Defendants, Donald J. Trump and Jeffrey E. Epstein, that were she ever to reveal any of the details
of the sexual and physical abuse that she had suffered as a sex slave for Defendant Trump and
Defendant Epstein, that Plaintiff Johnson and her family would be in mortal danger. Plaintiff
Johnson was warned that this would mean certain death for herself and Plaintiff Johnson's family
unless she remained silent forever on the exact details of the depraved and perverted sexual and
physical abuse she had been forced to endure from the Defendants.

4

CV-126 (09/09) PLEADING PAGE FOR A COMPLAINT

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029263
