New Curricula for a New Way of Teaching 105

got a week to talk about what his work was about. The goal was to try
to convince students to sign up for a special research seminar with
that faculty member the following quarter.

My champion at Stanford was a psychiatrist named Kenneth Col-
by. He invited me to share his week and thus we would be a team for
which students could sign up the following quarter. I listened to his
talks to the students. He was very funny but rather light on content, in
my opinion. I wasn’t impressed. But, after I spoke, he said something
to me I never forgot. He said: If you try to say everything that you
know in an hour, either of two things is true. Either you can do it and
therefore you must not know very much, or else you can’t do it and
you will talk way too fast trying to fit it allin and you will be generally
incomprehensible.

I listened to what he had to say, but I wasn’t sure he was right. At
the first meeting of our jointly run seminar, we discovered that we
had won the student jackpot. While other faculty had gotten four or
five sign-ups, we had gotten 25. I was very proud of myself until the
students went around the table to say who they were and why they
had signed up. Not a single one of them had signed up because of any-
thing I had said. They had been mesmerized by Colby.

Then I reheard in my head what Colby had told me the previ-
ous quarter. He had entertained them—not overwhelmed them. They
thought he would be interesting and fun and they wanted to work
with him. While I had looked down on his lighthearted presentation
style, it turned out he knew what he was doing.

So, what did I learn and how did my thinking change? Thinking,
as I said earlier, looks like this:

Make a prediction
Prediction fails

Make a generalization
Explain your generalization
Make a new prediction

What was my prediction? I had predicted that speaking quickly with
a great deal of brilliant content would woo the incoming students.
This was simply wrong. I needed to make a new generalization. Fortu-
nately, I did not have to do the work myself. Colby had helped me by
supplying a generalization that he believed to be true. (Good teachers

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023851
