cc Oosterbaan, Andrew

02/27/2008 09:45 PM
bec

Subject Fw: Epstein

Sent from my BlackBerry Wireless Handheld

----- Original Message -----
From: Jeffrey Sloman

To: Sloman, Jeff (USAFLS)
Sent: Wed Feb 27 21:37:02 2008
Subject: Epstein

Jay,

You have renewed your request for certain information which this Office does
not generally make available in similar pre-indictment situations. After
carefully considering your request, I have decided, in my capacity as the
First Assistant U.S. Attorney, not to make an exception here.

Regarding the Landon Thomas matter, Mr. Thomas was given, pursuant to his
request, non-case specific information concerning specific federal statutes.

Regarding the offer to extend the current deadline of March 3, 2008 contained
in my February 25th email. That offer was based on counsel for Mr. Epstein
meeting with CEOS the week of March 3rd. You indicate that you are
unavailable. It is hard to imagine that some or all of the other attorneys
representing Mr. Epstein cannot serve this function. After all, Mr. Epstein is
also represented by Dean Kenneth Starr, Martin Weinberg, Roy Black, Gerald
Lefcourt, Harvard Professor Alan Dershowitz, Lily Ann Sanchez, and Guy Lewis.

That being said, the Southern District of Florida will only renew the offer to
extend the current deadline if you and the CEOS Section Chief mutually agree
on a timetable by close of business on Friday, February 29, 2008 to meet and
complete presentations no later than March 19, 2008. Given that CEOS is ready
to proceed immediately, this seems like more than ample time. As I indicated
in my previous email, if CEOS subsequently decides that a federal prosecution
should not be undertaken against Mr. Epstein, this Office will close its
investigation. However, should CEOS disagree with Mr. Epstein’s position, Mr.
Epstein shall have one week to abide by the terms and conditions of the
September 24, 2007 Agreement as amended by letter from United States Attorney
Acosta.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012666
