Could U.S. case against sex offender Jeffrey Epstein be reopened?

3 of 4

Edwards and Cassell instead want him to rule that prosecutors violated the Crime Victims’ Rights Act.
Once that determination is made, Marra could then decide what remedies to impose, the two lawyers
argue.

Under the act, neither of their clients can seek “damages” from the government but the attorneys have
suggested Marra could order the government to pay the women restitution, impose a monetary
sanction and pay their legal fees.

Still, Cassell insisted: “This isn’t about money, it’s about justice.”

Cassell, who is a law professor at the University of Utah, said the case is being watched closely by
victims’ rights advocates along with federal lawmakers who pushed the legislation through Congress
and have publicly questioned prosecutors’ handling of Epstein’s case.

A decision ordering federal prosecutors to reopen the investigation could establish a national
precedent, he said. “It will be a big win for the victims,” Cassell said. “That's the way we look at it.”

About the Author

JANE MUSGRAVE

=
ha

ADVERTISER CONTENT: Rebif

How MS Affects the Immune System: A
Discussion With a Healthcare Professional

Reader Comments «

Next Up in Local

NEW: 3 things to know from Wellington council
meeting Tuesday

by Kristina Webb, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

Here are three things to know after Tuesday night’s Wellington
council meeting: 1. The village council held its final vote and
approved the coming fiscal year’s tax rate, 2.43, and $110 million
budget. Though the tax rate is down from this year’s 2.44, residents
still will see a slight increase in their tax bills because property...

BREAKING: 27 years later, arrest in Wellington clown fatal shooting

by Hannah Winston, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

For 27 years, investigators thought Sheila Keen had something to do with the clown who drove up to a

http://www.mypalmbeachpost.com/news/crime--law/fight-reopen-teen-s...

9/27/2017, 12:04 AM

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015030
