developed , inverted, distorted, related, etc. the development stage take a long time. then there is a
recapitlaltion of the whole. and its inter and intra actions. . african musci has lots of beats. and little
development. -no accident, it mirrors their learning process.

Interesting question if music is somehow indicative of genetically defined prefs, but I am not sure. It could
be path effects, starting in culture.

re taboo
, maybe climate change is a good way of dealing with overpopulation. _ . the earths forest
fire. potentailly a good thing for the species

Making having children expensive in terms of upbringing and missed opportunity (like in the west) is a more
humane way. Environmental stress while leaving near rock bottom tends to lead people to have more
children, because there is no missed opportunity, and high mortality requires more attempts at procreation.
Humans are a hardy species, outside of focused famine events and wars only small fractions of any given
population die.

I suspect that strong reductions in population will come from large-scale failure of agriculture. The climate
change itself with result in migration and wars, but most people will probably survive that. But who knows, I
might be wrong.

too many people, so many mass executions of the elderly and infirm make sense
is the fundamental fact that everyone dies at some time .make it imporrisbole to ask so why
not earilier. if the brain discards unused neurons , why shold socieity keep their equivalent

The radical idea of treating individuals in a society as cells and the society itself as a well-organized
organism is fascism, or course. Probably the most efficient and rationally stringent way of governance, if
someone could pull it off in a sustainable way; and if it is aggressive and expansive, its efficiency makes it a
virus that everybody will want to stomp out. Fascism makes romantic doo-gooders like me very
uncomfortable (I visited KZ Buchenwald five times and it had a profound influence on me; we East Germans
inoculated ourselves very thoroughly against fascism), and the general public will not be willing to consider
it.

I rather like the treatment Fascism gets in the Amazon Series The Man in the High Castle, which explores
what would have happened if the Germans and Japanese had won the war: A society that tries to function as
a brutal and ruthlessly efficient machine, eliminating all social and evolutionary slack. It is very dark, but not
a flat caricature of pointless evil for its own sake. Heinlein's late book Starship Troopers explores fascism,
too, but unlike Philipp K Dick he does not see it as a form of insanity, but as the most desirable order.

I find your political incorrectness very fascinating. In the beginning, I thought it is a form of costly
signaling, but now I think you are simply entirely unconstrained in your thoughts. How did you manage in
your youth? Did you get in trouble, or did you keep your thoughts to yourself? I wonder what kind of person
you want to transform into.

It was interesting to notice that at the Forbidden Research conference, nobody managed to say anything
remotely out-of line. One large discussion group wanted to address the question of whether democracy still
works, and mostly expressed their disagreement with Trump. Ideology is like halitosis: easy to see in others,
hard in oneself. A speaker felt that the media stifle all criticism of Trump, another wanted to remove men
and Elon Musk from government, and everybody strongly agreed that we need more diversity everywhere.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026415
