Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 539-1 Filed 01/06/17 Page 4 of 9

6/14/2016
Manhattan.

The photograph that appeared last weekend shows the prince strolling through Central Park with
58-year-old Epstein. Andrew was said to have spent four days at his New York mansion in
December, when he was joined by other distinguished guests, including Woody Allen, at a dinner.

It is by no means the first New York soiree Andrew has attended as Epstein’s guest.

A lengthy profile of the financier in Vanity Fair magazine some years ago reported that Andrew was
a guest at a cocktail party thrown by Epstein and Maxwell packed with young Russian models.
‘Some guests were horrified,’ said the article's author, Vicky Ward.

it should not be forgotten that Epstein is a registered sex offender after recently completing his
sentence for offences relating to child prostitution.

However, he avoided trial on more serious charges that carried a potential life sentence. And no one
reading The Mail on Sunday's interview with the woman who was prepared to testify against him can
be in any doubt of the seriousness of the charges.

Epstein, a Wall Street money manager who once counted Bill Clinton and Donald Trump among his
friends, became the subject of an undercover investigation in 2005 after the stepmother of a 14-year
old girl claimed she was paid $200 (£125) to give him an ‘erotic massage’.

The subsequent FBI probe uncovered at least 20 girls levelling sexual allegations against him.
Eventually, Epstein struck a ‘plea bargain’ with prosecutors — a practice not permitted under British
law — under which he was allowed to plead guilty to two relatively minor charges.

Police claim that his donations to politicians and his ‘dream team’ of influential lawyers deterred
prosecutors from bringing more serious charges of sex-trafficking. The deal certainly kept the names
of a lot of Epstein’s famous friends out of an embarrassing court case.

However, an unusual part of the agreement was that Epstein’s alleged victims were allowed to bring
civil proceedings against him.

He has so far made 17 out-of-court settlements, and some cases are ongoing. One of these girls
was to have been a key witness for the prosecution had the case gone to trial. She was just 15
years old when she was drawn into Epstein’s exploitative world in 1998.

In her civil writ against him, under the pseudonym Jane Doe 102’ she alleged that her duties
included being ‘sexually exploited by Epstein’s adult male peers including royalty’.

Now, horrified by the evidence of Epstein and Andrew enjoying each other’s company in New York,
Jane Doe 102 has agreed to waive her anonymity and tell for the first time her deeply disturbing
story.

Her real name is Virginia Roberts and she now lives in Australia, where she is a happily married
mother of three.

Over the course of a week during which she spoke at length to The Mail on Sunday, she appeared
sometimes vuinerabie, and sometimes steely, but always quietly resolute and consistent.

Revisiting events from a past that she had hoped she had left behind, Virginia occasionally buried
her face in her hands.

Some recollections — and, for reasons of taste, not all the details can be included here — caused her
to flush with shame. ‘I'm telling you things that even my husband didn’t know,’ she said.

Virginia, who has undergone counselling to try to come to terms with her past, is honest about her
initiation into Epstein’s depraved world.

She was a troubled teenager, whose slender figure, delicate complexion, hesitant voice and soulful
blue eyes made her look young for her years.

Born in Sacramento, California, in August 1983, Virginia spent her early years on a small ranch on
the West Coast of America.

This seemingly idyllic childhood ended when she was sexually molested by a man close to her
family.

The fallout from that led to her parents temporarily splitting up. Blaming herself, Virginia began to
get into trouble Aged 11, she was sent to live with an aunt but repeatedly ran away.

Living on the streets, she was beaten up and slept with at least two older men in return for food. ‘1
was a paedophile’s dream,’ she says.

Three years later, she was reunited with her family and started a new life with her father who had
moved to Palm Beach,

Florida, where he was maintenance manager at Donald Trump's country club, Mar-a-Lago.

Virginia got a part-time job as a changing room assistant -which is where, soon after her 15th
birthday, she met Ghislaine Maxwell, who invited her to work as Epstein’s personal masseuse.

‘| was wearing my uniform — a white miniskirt and a skin-tight white polo top — when | was
approached by Ghislaine,’ Virginia says.

‘! told her | wanted to become a masseuse and she said she worked for a very wealthy gentleman
who was looking for a travelling masseuse.

I'd get training and be paid well. Virginia’s father gave his blessing, believing his daughter was being
handed the opportunity to learn a skill and to work for a wealthy and respectable employer.

He drove her to Epstein’s pink mansion on the Palm Beach waterfront — he also owns a nine-storey
home in New York, the city’s biggest private residence; a 7,500-acre ranch called ‘Zorro’ in New

http:/Awww.dailym ail.co.uk/news/article- 1361039/Prince-Andrew-girl-17-sex-offender-friend-flew-Britain-meet-him.htm!

Case 1:15°OeOd Se Ray” Dereuerrert Dneig toBileid (G94 51 Halpyg@ningf 9

‘Nesd a tight tush’:
LeAnn Rimes illustrates
how to get a firm ‘booty’
as she does yoga in
skimpy tank top and
leggings
Exercise tips

‘twant them raally big!’
Blonde bombshell begs
dactors to make her
1,000cc implants - even
after they insist her
enhanced breasts are
‘perfect’

On Botched

‘it's my fourth favorite
reality show! Jessica
Alba and Kate Hudson
are mean girls as Chris
Martin plays for laughs
in Sara and Erin Foster’s
Barely Famous

‘He's turned into an
absolute jark:' Former
Celebrity Apprentice
star Vivica A. Fox slams
Donald Trump... but
says he's not a racist
She's no longer a fan

‘Idon't see a dark past
anymore’: Paris
Jackson reveals tattoos
have helped cover her
‘scars and self-hatred’
in moving Instagram
post

How the season's
hottest beach babes
including Hailee
Steinfeld and Kendall
Jenner are ernbracing
Jewelry at the seashore
Chic on the beach

This old thing!
Duchess of Cambridge
recycles a TEN-year-old
brocade coat as she
plants a tree at garden
party
From the back of her
wardrobe

EXCLUSIVE: Alexa
Curtin, daughter of Real
Housewives star Lynne,
is charged with drug
possession two months
alter accusing O.C.
deputy sheriff of raping
her during a traffic stop

‘told my mom she's a
grandma’: Maria
Menounos shared
excitement about her
frozen embryos in
poignant IVF interview...
given before negative
pregnancy test

Gene Simmons’
daughter Sophie says
she was told she was
‘nat small enough’ ta be
a model and reveals her
mam taught her to love
her shape

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014662
