The Chinese Puzzle | 235

independently targeted warheads. Combined with the state-of-the-
art technology it had licensed from Russia, its systematic use of
espionage even made it possible for China to build its own stealth
fighters.

Unlike the United States, China did not achieve this remarkable
capability to launch independently targeted miniaturized nuclear
weapons and stealth them by investing hundreds of billions of dol-
lars in developing them. It obtained this technology mainly through
espionage. The Chinese intelligence service stole a large part, if not
all, of America’s secret technology for weaponizing nuclear bombs
during the 1980s and 1990s. The theft was so massive that in 1998
the House of Representatives set up a special bipartisan investiga-
tive unit called the Select Committee on U.S. National Security and
Military/Commercial Concerns with the People’s Republic of China.
Based on the intelligence amassed by the NSA, the CIA, and other
intelligence services, it concluded in its report that the Chinese intel-
ligence service had obtained both by electronic and by conventional
spying the warhead design of America’s seven most advanced ther-

© monuclear weapons. Moreover, it found that espionage successes ®
allowed China to so accelerate the design, development, and test-
ing of its own nuclear weapons that the new generation of Chinese
weapons would be “comparable in effectiveness to the weapons used
by the United States.” Further, the committee reported that these
thefts were the “results of decades of intelligence operations against
U.S. weapons laboratories.” The Chinese intelligence service further
obtained from private U.S. defense contractors through cyber espio-
nage important elements of the stealth technology used in advanced
planes and submarines. China shared (or exchanged) the fruits of its
espionage on nuclear warhead design with North Korea, Pakistan,
Iran, and Russia.

Despite its formidable intelligence coups in the United States, the
Chinese intelligence service managed to remain among the most
elusive of America’s intelligence adversaries. Its espionage organi-
zations are hidden behind layers of bureaucracy in the Ministry of
State Security, Chinese Communist Party structures, and the second,
third, and fourth department of the General Staff of the People’s
Liberation Army. Much of its cyber-espionage units are concealed

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.indd 235 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019723
