Lewis Carroll lectured on mathematics at Oxford University.
He wrote several books on logic, illustrated with wonderful
problems involving fish, kittens, and gorillas - much less boring than the
brown, grass-eating cows of modern textbooks. Kittens and gorillas are
not usually in much contact, but I did find one hit on Google, pictured!
The words we organize into books, poems and plays are not just
a random jumble; they have structure and a logic to them. We group
verbs, subjects and objects together to form sentences and, at a larger
scale, characters have motivations and relationships: this character
loves that character, the valet had the candlestick in the ballroom and
could not have stabbed the butler in the kitchen, and so on. We have
dictionaries to define words, but to truly understand the information
they convey we need to understand the logical rules governing how they
can be combined.

A s well as giving us Alice, the Jabberwocky, and the Cheshire Cat,

Everyday conversation is fragmented and repetitive. Fortunately,
now and again, we say something definitive. For example, “This gorilla is
brown.” The statement links a property, ‘brownness; to a thing, ‘a gorilla.
Logical statements are precise but often need to be put in context. IfI were
standing in a forest when I made my statement you must guess I mean the
nearest gorilla. The word “This implies nearness, but nearness is not well
defined. Better to be precise. “The gorilla I am closest to, measured by line
of sight distance is the Pantone shade dark brown? However, if I talked
like this all day I would not have many friends.

Logical Beginnings

The formal study of logic began in 3848c with the publication ofa treatise
called the Organon by the Greek philosopher Aristotle. A student of
Plato, Aristotle taught many of the famous leaders of his time, including
Alexander The Great. Ancient Greece was not some idyllic think tank. If
you annoyed the political establishment you might find yourself having
to leave town in a hurry. This happened to Aristotle after Plato’s death,
and he spent nearly a decade touring Europe. Eventually, he returned to
Athens where he published his study on logic.

In the Organon, Aristotle examined groups of up to four statements,
each containing up to four relationships. For example: All kittens eat fish.
Some kittens eat fish. No kittens love gorillas. No gorillas eat kittens -
luckily. It is possible to put two statements back to back and infer things.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015839
