Downside risks to our price objective are an economic slowdown and the final
implementation of a strict liquidity coverage ratio. Specific to WFC, risks are enhanced
regulatory scrutiny and capital standards as a Global SIFI, and issues surrounding its
cross selling.

Zions Bancorp (ZION)

We use a three-factor valuation framework (P/E, P/TBV, DCF) to arrive at our $36 price
objective and assign a 1.2x multiple to 2017E TBV. Our 16x P/E multiple, which we apply
on 2017E EPS along with debt extinguishment upside, is 1x higher than its historical
median due to low interest rates. Our DCF assumes a two-stage cost of capital of
16.1% and 11.6% and a terminal growth rate of 8%.

Upside risks to our price objective are more robust economic recovery and less onerous
post cycle reserve requirements. Downside risks are a slowdown in housing price
appreciation and a prolonged low interest rate environment.

Analyst Certification

We, Erika Najarian, Ebrahim H. Poonawala, Kenneth Bruce and Michael Carrier, CFA,
hereby certify that the views each of us has expressed in this research report accurately
reflect each of our respective personal views about the subject securities and issuers.
We also certify that no part of our respective compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to the specific recommendations or view expressed in this research
report.

Special Disclosures

BofA Merrill Lynch is currently acting as financial advisor to KKR and the Company in
connection with its proposed sale of a majority stake in SMCP Group to Shandong Ruyi
Group. The signing of an exclusivity agreement between the parties was announced on
31 March 2016.

BofA Merrill Lynch is currently acting as financial advisor to Huntington Bancshares Inc
in connection with Huntington and FirstMerit Corp's proposed sale of 13 bank branches
in Stark and Ashtabula counties to First Commonwealth Bank, a subsidiary of First
Commonwealth Financial Corp, which was announced on July 27, 2016.

BofA Merrill Lynch is currently acting as financial advisor to Blackstone Group LP in
connection with its proposed acquisition of Team Health Holdings Inc, which was
announced on October 31, 2016. The proposed transaction is subject to approval by
shareholders of Team Health Holdings Inc. This research report is not intended to (1}
provide voting advice, (2) serve as an endorsement of the proposed transaction, or (3)
result in the procurement, withholding or revocation of a proxy.

BofA Merrill Lynch is currently acting as financial adviser to Blackstone Real Estate
Partners Europe IV and Blackstone Real Estate Partners VIII (jointly “Blackstone”}
through its entity Vega Holdco Sarl in connection with a proposed offer to acquire a
controlling stake of D. Carnegie & Co. AB, which was announced on 15 July 2016. The
transaction will, if completed eventually result in Blackstone passing the threshold for a
mandatory offer obligation.

BofA Merrill Lynch is currently acting as financial advisor to Ares Capital Corp. in
connection with its proposed acquisition of American Capital, Ltd., which was
announced on May 23, 2016. Ares Management L.P. will provide financial support to the
transaction. The proposed transaction is subject to approval by shareholders of
American Capital Itd. and Ares Capital Corp. This research report is not intended to (1)
provide voting advice, (2) serve as an endorsement of the proposed transaction, or (3)
result in the procurement, withholding or revocation of a proxy.

Bankof America a 2016 Future of Financials Conference | 17 November 2016 75
Merrill Lynch

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014389
