270

Teaching Minds

They must be learn-by-doing curricula consisting of series of
projects inside coherent stories about life in some aspect of
the real world.

They must be delivered on the web. Students should work on
projects where the background and help are web delivered.
They would submit their work to mentors and receive
feedback online.

Mentors in the curricula would include parents, online
subject matter experts worldwide, local experts, and teachers
trained to be mentors. Mentoring, unlike teaching, is not
about providing information that can be found easily in
books but about helping students through a problem without
giving them the answer. Mentors point students in the right
direction and react to their work as it progresses.

Students should, on a regular basis (sometimes weekly,
sometimes more often), submit work products related to each
project for evaluation and feedback. Students would submit
their work many times to achieve increasing mastery and get
continuing feedback. There should be no competency tests,
only the continual monitoring of performance.

Each curriculum should be designed by a panel of experts in
a given field. The curriculum should provide a simulation of
what life might be like in that field. For example, students
might spend the year working legal cases, or starting a
business, or designing roads and bridges.

Students should be encouraged to work in virtual teams,
learning to deal with others to produce results.

Choice must be a staple of the curricula. There can be no
single set of standard requirements. Instead, students should
be able to select the curricula they wish to participate in.
Their records would list what deliverables they have created
in their chosen curricula.

Curricula must be designed around projects with clear,
meaningful, achievable goals. They must be designed
carefully so to incorporate all the key basic skills like reading,
writing, reasoning, researching, calculating, computing, and
so on, in a systematic and natural way.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023956
