hop heads; On Galway Kinnell’s “The Grey Heron”: E.O. Wilson, Robert Hass, Laura McPhee;
On Gwendolyn Brooks’s “To Prisoners”: Anna Deveare Smith, Reginald Dwayne Betts, Li-Young
Lee and a chorus of exonerees from the Innocence Project; On William Carlos Williams’s “This Is
Just To Say”: Woody Allen, Jane Hirshfield, Rafael Campo and a chorus of couples young and old;
On Langston Hughes’s “Harlem”: President Bill Clinton, Herbie Hancock, Sonia Sanchez and a
chorus of children from Promise Academy; On Allen Ginsberg’s Hymmnn from “Kaddish” and
“Hum Bom”: Bono, Juan Felipe Herrera and a chorus of clergy.

The production of the following episodes will wrap early 2017:

On Emily Dickinson’s “I cannot dance opon my Toes”: Cynthia Nixon, Yo Yo Ma, Marie Howe
and Bill T. Jones; On Marianne Moore’s “The Fish”: Jorie Graham, Edward Norton, Conservation
International scientists, and the passengers and crew of oceanographic vessel The Alucia; On
Elizabeth Bishop’s “One Art” or Edna St. Vincent Millay’s “Four Sonnets.”

Jeffrey,

Just a quick note to thank you again for all the help you've given me. The generous contribution you
made last year to Verse Video Education is now in use (we've hired our new editor!). Once he helps
us to plow through the work of this year, we'll begin to look forward to crafting educational content on
the literature of art, sport and play (these materials now including footage from recent shoots with
Shaquille O'Neal, Yo Yo Ma, Cynthia Nixon, Bono and others). 100K makes so much possible.

But, of course, you've also been a key preceptor as I've learned how --squirming all the way--the
sausage really gets made in public television. | can't say I've been entirely successful in taming costs
there, but I've been far better armed and more mindful of what they should be after the stern tutorial
you administered.

Whenever Templeton might be ready to evaluate another application, I'm ready for another proposal
for them. | wonder if you might arrange a meeting for me with the famous Barnaby? | can't yet afford
a grant writer, and so the time one of these suckers takes makes me think doing more advance
reconnaissance is crucial. Would he meet with me? Kosher? I'd also love to meet with the Blacks as
| get closer to making content on theatre. | hope that Debra is well.

And heard there's another little Jeff in the caribbean...
Best,

Elisa New

Powell M. Cabot Professor of American Literature
Harvard University

148 Barker Center

12 Quincy Street

Cambridge, MA

02138

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019332
