How Not to Teach 173

Mistake #4: Thinking that students are not worried about the
purpose of what they are being taught

Mistake #5: Thinking that studying can replace repeated practice
as a key learning technique

Mistake #6: Thinking that because students have chosen to take
your course, they have an interest in learning what you plan
to teach them

Mistake# 7: Correcting a student who is doing something wrong
by telling him what to do instead

Mistake #8: Thinking that a student remembers what you just
taught him

Now, let’s consider these teaching mistakes one by one.

Mistake #1: Assuming that there is some kind of learning other
than learning by doing

All of us, teachers or not, believe that we can teach by telling.
When I say that people learn by doing, people think: Yes, maybe most
of the time, but you also can learn by being told. The issue is what it
means to learn, of course. I define learning in terms of the cognitive
processes that are exercised during the attempt to learn.

This means that when I say the following: “You cannot learn by
being told,” what I mean is that that you cannot learn to do any cog-
nitive process by being told. I can tell you that George Washington
never told a lie, and you could learn that and you could make it some-
thing that you now believe. But this is not learning in the sense that
it doesn’t make you more capable of doing something because you
have learned it. Subject-based education relies on learning by telling
because for most of the things that are being taught, there is no other
way to learn them. How else could you learn that George Washington
never told a lie? By observation? By historical research? We learn this
by being told. But we do not learn cognitive processes by simply being
told. We learn them by practicing them.

This confusion is why teaching in its current form, with a teacher
in front of a class, exists at all. Without this focus on subject-based
education, it could not exist. And, this is why parents never stand in
front of their kids teaching them things. Cognitive processes cannot
be altered by telling.

So, we have rule #1 for teaching:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023919
