JAMES PATTERSON

the outcome may have been different. But they were not
known to us at the time.

A prosecution decision must be based on admissible
facts known at the time. In cases of this type, those are
unusually difficult because victims are frightened and
often decline to testify or if they do speak, they give con-
tradictory statements. Our judgment in this case, based
on the evidence known at the time, was that it was better
to have a billionaire serve time in jail, register as a sex
offender, and pay his victims restitution than risk a trial
with a reduced likelihood of success. I supported that
judgment then, and based on the state law as it then stood
and the evidence known at the time, I would support that
judgment again.

Epstein’s treatment, while in state custody, likewise
may encourage the view that the office should have been
tougher. Although the terms of confinement in a state
prison are a matter appropriately left to the State of Flor-
ida, and not federal authorities, without doubt, the treat-
ment that he received while in state custody undermined
the purpose of a jail sentence.

Some may also believe that the prosecution should
have been tougher in retaliation for the defense’s tactics.
The defense, arguably, often failed to negotiate in good
faith. They would obtain concessions as part of a negotia-
tion and agree to proceed, only to change their minds,
and appeal the office’s position to Washington. The inves-
tigations into the family lives of individual prosecutors

were, in my opinion, uncalled for, as were the accusations
of bias and/or misconduct against individual prosecutors:

210

y

At times, some prosecut
trial, and at times I felt t
right in the first meetin
spective of defense tacti
tional right to a defense
right should not be puni:
sel’s exercise of their ri;
Washington D.C. Prosect
frustration and anger wi
their judgment.

After the-plea, I reca
One was from the FBI Spx
to offer congratulations.
meetings regarding this c
of the defense, and he cal
holding firm against the 1
itz, Lefkowitz and Starr.
received calls or commun
itz, Lefkowitz and Starr. |
als previously, from my
Kirkland & Ellis in the m
peace. | agreed to talk ani
Epstein pled guilty, as I tk
tors battle defense attorne)

have tried, yet I confess tk
fully in this case.

The bottom line is this:
served time in jail and is m
He has been required to pay

restitution clearly cannot c

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010550
