HERBIE HANCOCK

Herbie Hancock is a true icon of modern music. Throughout
his explorations, he has transcended limitations and

genres while maintaining his unmistakable voice. With an
illustrious career spanning five decades and 14 Grammy®
Awards, including Album of the Year for River: The Joni
Letters, he continues to amaze audiences across the globe.

There are few artists in the music industry
who have had more influence on acoustic and electronic
jazz and R&B than Herbie Hancock. As the immortal
Miles Davis said in his autobiography, “Herbie was
the step after Bud Powell and Thelonious Monk, and I
haven’t heard anybody yet who has come after him.”

Born in Chicago in 1940, Herbie was a child
piano prodigy who performed a Mozart piano concerto
with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra at age 11. He
began playing jazz in high school, initially influenced
by Oscar Peterson and Bill Evans. He also developed a
passion for electronics and science, and double-majored
in music and electrical engineering at Grinnell College.

In 1960, Herbie was discovered by trumpeter Donald
Byrd. After two years of session work with Byrd as well as
Phil Woods and Oliver Nelson, he signed with Blue Note
as a solo artist. His 1963 debut album, ‘Takin’ Off’, was an
immediate success, producing the hit “Watermelon Man.”

In 1963, Miles Davis invited Herbie to join the
Miles Davis Quintet. During his five years with Davis, Herbie
and his colleagues Wayne Shorter (tenor sax), Ron Carter
(bass), and Tony Williams (drums) recorded many classics,
including ‘ESP’, ‘Nefertiti’ and ‘Sorcerer’. Later on, Herbie
made appearances on Davis’ groundbreaking ‘In a Silent Way’
and ‘Bitches Brew’, which heralded the birth of jazz-fusion.

Herbie’s own solo career blossomed on Blue Note,
with classic albums including ‘Maiden Voyage’, ‘Empyrean
Isles’, and “Speak Like a Child’. He composed the score to
Michelangelo Antonioni’s 1966 film ‘Blow Up’, which led to
a successful career in feature film and television music.

After leaving Davis, Herbie put together a new
band called The Headhunters and, in 1973, recorded ‘Head
Hunters.’ With its crossover hit single “Chameleon,”
it became the first jazz album to go platinum.

By mid-decade, Herbie was playing for stadium-sized
crowds all over the world and had no fewer than four albums in
the pop charts at once. In total, Herbie had 11 albums in the pop
charts during the 1970s. His ’7o0s output inspired and provided
samples for generations of hip-hop and dance music artists.

Herbie also stayed close to his love of acoustic
jazz in the ’7os, recording and performing with VSOP
(reuniting him with his Miles Davis colleagues), and in
duet settings with Chick Corea and Oscar Peterson.

In 1980, Herbie introduced the trumpeter Wynton
Marsalis to the world as a solo artist, producing his debut
album and touring with him as well. In 1983, a new pull to the
alternative side led Herbie to a series of collaborations with

Bill Laswell. The first, ‘Future Shock’, again struck platinum,
and the single “Rockit” rocked the dance and R&B charts,
winning a Grammy for Best R&B Instrumental. The video of
the track won five MTV awards. ‘Sound System’, the follow-up,
also received a Grammy in the R&B instrumental category.

Herbie won an Oscar in 1986 for scoring the
film “’Round Midnight”, in which he also appeared as
an actor. Numerous television appearances over the
years led to two hosting assignments in the 1980s: “Rock
School” on PBS and Showtime’s “Coast To Coast”.

After an adventurous 1994 project for Mercury
Records, ‘Dis Is Da Drum’, he moved to the Verve label,
forming an all-star band to record 1996’s Grammy-
winning ‘The New Standard’. In 1997, an album of
duets with Wayne Shorter, ‘1+1’, was released.

The legendary Headhunters reunited in 1998,
recording an album for Herbie’s own Verve-distributed
imprint, and touring with the Dave Matthews Band. That
year also marked the recording and release of ‘“Gershwin’s
World’, which included collaborators Joni Mitchell, Stevie
Wonder, Kathleen Battle, the Orpheus Chamber Orchestra,
Wayne Shorter and Chick Corea. ‘Gershwin’s World’ won three
Grammys in 1999, including Best Traditional Jazz Album
and Best R&B Vocal Performance for Stevie Wonder’s
“St. Louis Blues.”

Herbie reunited with Bill Laswell to collaborate
with some young hip-hop and techno artists on
2001's FUTURE2FUTURE. He also joined with Roy
Hargrove and Michael Brecker in 2002 to record a live
concert album, ‘Directions In Music: Live at Massey
Hall’, a tribute to John Coltrane and Miles Davis.

‘Possibilities’, released in August 2005, teamed
Herbie with many popular artists, such as Sting, Annie Lennox,
John Mayer, Christina Aguilera, Paul Simon, Carlos Santana,
Joss Stone and Damien Rice. That year, he played a number
of concert dates with a re-staffed Headhunters,
and became the first-ever Artist-In-Residence at
the Tennessee-based festival Bonnaroo.

In 2007, Hancock recorded and released ‘River: The
Joni Letters’, a tribute to longtime friend and collaborator Joni
Mitchell featuring Wayne Shorter, guitarist Lionel Loueke,
bassist Dave Holland and drummer Vinnie Colaiuta and co-
produced by Larry Klein. He enlisted vocalists Norah Jones,
Tina Turner, Corinne Bailey Rae, Luciana Souza, Leonard
Cohen and Mitchell herself to perform songs she wrote or was
inspired by. The album received glowing reviews and was a
year-end Top 10 choice for many critics. It also garnered three
Grammy Awards, including Album of the Year; Herbie is one
of only a handful of jazz musicians ever to receive that honor.

In 2010 Hancock released the critically-acclaimed
CD, ‘Herbie Hancock’s The Imagine Project,’ winner of two
2oll Grammy Awards for Best Pop Collaboration and Best
Improvised Jazz Solo. Utilizing the universal language of

music to express its central themes of peace and global
responsibility, the ‘Imagine’ project was recorded around
the world and features a stellar group of musicians
including Jeff Beck, Seal,Pink, Dave Matthews, The
Chieftains, Lionel Loueke, Oumou Sangare, Konono

#1, Anoushka Shankar, Chaka Khan, Marcus Miller,
Derek Trucks, Susan Tedeschi, Tinariwen, and Ceu.

Herbie Hancock also maintains a thriving career
outside the performing stage and recording studio. Recently
named by the Los Angeles Philharmonic as Creative Chair
For Jazz, he currently also serves as Institute Chairman of the
Thelonious Monk Institute of Jazz, the foremost international
organization devoted to the development of jazz performance
and education worldwide. Hancock is also a founder of
The International Committee of Artists for Peace, and was
recently awarded the much esteemed “Commandeur des Arts
et des Lettres” by French Prime Minister Francois Fillon.

In July of 2011 Hancock was designated a UNESCO
Goodwill Ambassador by UNESCO Director-General Irina
Bokova. Recognizing Herbie Hancock’s “dedication to the
promotion of peace through dialogue, culture and the arts,”
the Director-General has asked the celebrated jazz musician
“to contribute to UNESCO’s efforts to promote mutual
understanding among cultures, with a particular emphasis on
fostering the emergence of new and creative ideas amongst
youth, to find solutions to global problems, as well as ensuring
equal access to the diversity of artistic expressions.” UNESCO's
Goodwill Ambassadors are an outstanding group of celebrity
advocates who have generously accepted to use their talent
and status to help focus the world’s attention on the objectives
and aims of UNESCO’s work in its fields of competence:
education, culture, science and communication/information

Now in the fifth decade of his professional life,
Herbie Hancock remains where he has always been: in the
forefront of world culture, technology, business and music.
Though one can’t track exactly where he will go next, he is
sure to leave his inimitable imprint wherever he lands.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017541
