CHAPTER 7: PETTY’S IDEA

How We Got to this Point

I said that if] had any sense, I would have left the worms in the can by pretending to
believe (4.1) as Mill did and as the rest of the world seems to do. Charts and tables
confirm his prediction in his and their terms as well as mine. But Piketty’s argument
was rightly criticized for leaving human capital out. Someone might or might not
have faulted mine on the same ground if I had stopped at the end of Chapter 4.
Whether they would have or not, every composer knows that the critic to hear is the
one inside. What that critic told me was to gamble a case already won, open the can,
and follow the argument and worms wherever they lead. That’s why my title

promised other surprises.

I risked following it past clarification into digression when I argued the pay rule. I
since tried to justify the digression, if there was some, by showing how that rule
could explain Piketty’s data for pay/net profit ratios in the twentieth century. And I
tried to show how the pay rule and depreciation theory combined, making pay all
human depreciation and no realized work at the end, gives the only convincing
explanation of age-wage profiles showing rising or steady pay as human capital
grades smoothly to zero. Risk theory reinforced this argument by revealing time
discount rates for human capital as those made plain for physical capital owned by
the same ageing cohorts. Every step was an adventure, and every step led to the
next one. But I opened other questions and cans along the way, and the same critic

tells me to follow the worms a little farther.

I said that the cost of survival is adult consumption for the sake of investment in the
next generation, that pure consumption is more or less the same, and that we will
understand the maximand when we understand pure consumption. These threads
lead into evolutionary biology, which reasons how traits are selected for lineage

survival. The faithful need not take alarm. Although I mean natural selection, divine

Chapter 7 Petty’s Idea 2/3/16 1

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011060
