Chapter 2
What Is Human-Like General Intelligence?

2.1 Introduction

CogPrime, the AGI architecture on which the bulk of this book focuses, is aimed at the creation
of artificial general intelligence that is vaguely human-like in nature, and possesses capabilities
at the human level and ultimately beyond.

Obviously this description begs some foundational questions, such as, for starters: What is
general intelligence? What is human-like general intelligence? What is intelligence at all?

Perhaps in the future there will exist a rigorous theory of general intelligence which applies
usefully to real-world biological and digital intelligences. In later chapters we will give some
ideas in this direction. But such a theory is currently nascent at best. So, given the present
state of science, these two questions about intelligence must be handled via a combination of
formal and informal methods. This brief, informal chapter attempts to explain our view on the
nature of intelligence in sufficient detail to place the discussion of CogPrime in appropriate
context, without trying to resolve all the subtleties.

Psychologists sometimes define human general intelligence using IQ tests and related instru-
ments — so one might wonder: why not just go with that? But these sorts of intelligence testing
approaches have difficulty even extending to humans from diverse cultures [HHPO12] [Fis01].
So it’s clear that to ground AGI approaches that are not based on precise modeling of human
cognition, one requires a more fundamental understanding of the nature of general intelligence.
On the other hand, if one conceives intelligence too broadly and mathematically, there’s a risk
of leaving the real human world too far behind. In this chapter (followed up in Chapters 9 and
7 with more rigor), we present a highly abstract understanding of intelligence-in-general, and
then portray human-like general intelligence as a (particularly relevant) special case.

2.1.1 What Is General Intelligence?

Many attempts to characterize general intelligence have been made; Legg and Hutter [LI107a]
review over 70! Our preferred abstract characterization of intelligence is: the capability of a
system to choose actions maximizing its goal-achievement, based on its perceptions
and memories, and making reasonably efficient use of its computational resources

19

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012935
