these portrayals are rooted in the
different aspects of human connections,
and each is grounded in a social context.
Social connection can be intimate,
relational, or collective. For the member
of the Vineyard Church, connection with
God is an intimate two-way relationship,
while in Jonathan Edwards’s sermon in
the Great Awakening, the connection is
relational and involves the coherence (or
lack of it) of the individual with God’s
approval. And the Christian theological
view of connection as a higher order can
be conceived in terms of one’s belonging
within a whole that God’s constancy
makes larger than oneself.

While religion certainly speaks to
individual connection to others and to
the divine, religious practices can also
serve an evolutionary and social function
by strengthening the human capacity for
attending to the personhood of those
who are sick and diminished. The
objectivity of medical science all too
often leads to an objectification of the
patient or, more frequently, the patient’s
disease. The social brain’s capacity to
see others as minds rather than objects
makes it possible to assign meaning to
patients and the ways in which they lack
wholeness.

Crescat scientia; vita excolatur

The possibility that religion and
science can enrich one other, even as one
sets aside truth claims about such
matters as the existence of a deity, is by
no means obvious. But we have come to
see that science can describe what
religion does in rigorous ways that
benefit religion, and religion can serve a
meaning-making function that science
itself disclaims. Gilpin notes that rifts
between science and religion “have
centered on whether one can make
scientific sense of the notion of divine

152

Page

mind, purpose, or intention.” Our
network sidestepped this question from
the beginning, focusing instead on
related matters such as the consequences
of believing in such a mind, and of
seeing into that mind, for the one doing
the divining.

Those are questions amenable to
empirical investigation, and it is at that
juncture that we can see benefit from our
discussions. As Berntson says, “beliefs
color the way we perceive the world,
they direct and shape our actions, and
define our personalities.” Studying and
debating about how they do so has been
gratifying and immensely enjoyable.
We have engaged in no theological
debate, but have focused on questions
about human beings, their beliefs, their
behaviors, and how those things affect
and are affected by multiple levels of
human connection.

How we conceptualize our
relationships to persons and things
outside our selves has implications for
our health and well-being. Specifically,
we have seen that viewing our
relationships in terms of meaningful
connections with other minds can have
positive implications for individual — as
well as social — health and function. The
more that we can learn about those
implications, the more our increase in
knowledge has the potential to enrich
human life.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021398
