e Sonnenschein Nath & Rosenthal LLP (March 2007-July 2007)
> Represented institutional lenders in the origination of portfolio loans; represented
developer/borrower in obtaining construction loan; represented firm clients in the negotiation
and execution of multiple office leases.
e Windels Marx Lane & Mittendorf, LLP (January 2006-February 2007)
> Represented Lehman Brothers in the origination of over $500 million in senior, mezzanine and
construction loans tailored for syndication or securitization.
> Represented Lehman Brothers in the disposition of over $100 million in joint venture portfolio
properties. Represented landlords in the sale of commercial and industrial properties.
> Reviewed and abstracted commercial leases and negotiated SNDA’s and estoppel certificates
in conjunction with loan originations.
e Carter Ledyard & Milburn LLP (August 2001-November 2005)
> Represented institutional and individual clients with the acquisition/disposition of commercial
and residential properties.
> Represented one of the largest downtown landlords in the negotiation of leases and lease
amendments (6 million total square feet of space in the Hudson Square and Ground Zero
vicinity).
> Performed due diligence on the real estate portfolios of target companies in merger
transactions.
> Represented institutional borrowers and lenders in the origination, negotiation and refinance of
senior and mezzanine loans and revolving lines of credit. Represented trust company in
origination of loans to high net worth clients.
Memberships
> Associate Development Committee, Hiring Committee, Practice Development Committee,
Summer Events Planning Committee and Associate Mentor Program.

EDUCATION:
Fordham University School of Law, New York, NY
Juris Doctor, May 2001, Dean's List

State University of New York at Stony Brook, Honors College, Stony Brook, NY
B.A., Honors Economics, December 1997, Cum Laude / Dean's List

4.0 G-P.A. in Economics

Teaching assistant: Microeconomics (Spring 1997) and Macroeconomics (Fall 1997)

PUBLICATION:

e Commercial Law Leasing and Strategy: “Rent Abatement Clauses, Tenants Should Speak Softly, But
Draft a Big ‘Club’” Volume 20, Number 7 (December 2007)

REFERENCE OF DONALD J. TRUMP AVAILABLE UPON REQUEST

{2005RE~1:1}

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029303
