COWEN
COLLABORATIVE INSIGHTS

18

February 25, 2019

Need For Alternative Methods To Produce Cannabinoids

Cannabis plants can exhibit wide variation in the quantity and type of cannabinoids they
produce. However, cannabinoids are only produced in limited quantities regardless of
the strain; in total, cannabinoids account for <1% of the dry weight of the cannabis
plant.

Selective breeding has led to strains of the cannabis plant that produce relatively large
amounts of the intermediary forms of THC and CBD. While THC content varies
substantially among cannabis strains, it generally represents 15-35% of the cannabinoid
content of the plant, and CBD is typically 1-12%. The relative abundance of these
compounds have allowed them to be well studied and their diversity of applications
have created a large commercial market.

After THC and CBD, the remaining cannabinoids are found only in trace amounts in the
plant. Compounds such as THCV, CBG, and CBC have elicited therapeutic interest, but
because they are only present in minute amounts they have been difficult to extract and
purify and impossible to produce at commercial scale. This has limited their study up to
this point.

Alternative Methods For Producing Cannabinoids

To combat the limited availability of cannabinoids using cultivation-based methods,
alternative approaches have been developed that use chemical and biotechnological
synthesis to produce cannabinoids.

Chemical Synthesis

Chemical synthesis methods use organic chemistry to produce cannabinoids; however,
the process has several drawbacks. Chemical methods have largely failed to be cost
effective for commercial scale cannabinoid production because of the complexity
required to produce the cannabinoid molecules, and extensive purification is needed to
obtain a high quality product. Commercial chemical synthesis also generates large
amounts of organic waste, takes several weeks to produce kilogram quantities, and is
expensive. As such, practical methods for the chemical synthesis of many cannabinoid
molecules has not been developed.

Biotechnological Synthesis (Synthetic Biology)

An emerging alternative to traditional cultivation and chemical synthesis is the use of
biotechnology-based approaches to produce cannabinoids. These synthetic biology
approaches produce cannabinoids through modifying the metabolism of genetically
engineered organisms. This converts the organism into a biological factory, producing
the desired cannabinoid in large quantities.

Compared to chemical methods, biosynthesis methods are more cost effective, scalable,
and environmentally friendly.

Compared to traditional methods, biosynthesis of cannabinoids is potentially more
sustainable, more reliable, faster, and less expensive. Biosynthesis does not require as
much water or energy input, is not subject to weather or other exogenous factors, takes
~3-5 days to yield an end product vs. traditional methods taking up to 4 months, and is
theoretically less expensive. Additionally, growing cannabis often involves using several
hard-to-remove impurities (e.g., pesticides), that could potentially create significant
safety issues and other undesirable dynamics. Furthermore, purity and regulatory

COWEN.COM

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024834
