Among the most important historic achievements we take pride in is the building of the national Emirati identity
which did not exist before the rise of the Union state. This identity settles deep down in the souls of all Emiratis,
runs in their blood-veins, and fills them with feelings of dignity and loyalty to their country, the UAE.

Every citizen and person of responsibility in the UAE puts his Emirati national sense of belonging above that of
his own area. Basically there is no conflict, but integration, between the two. When a person introduces himself
as coming from Abu Dhabi, Fujairah, or Dubai, he is not unlike an Egyptian who introduces himself as coming
from Cairo, Asyut, or Alexandria, or a Saudi, who introduces himself as coming from Riyadh, Makkah, or
Dammam.

Unfortunately, some people who do not know the Emirates and the facts of life there, pass judgment on what

they do not understand. We are, in the words of my brother Sheikh Khalifa, members in one body, strong and
held together. There are no sensitivities among the Emirates, but t here is mutual cooperation and help within
the one state, the one national identity; and at the same time, within the one state there is room for competition
in the fields of good deeds achievement, excellence, and the service of the country and citizens.

By Al-Sharq al-Awsat Daily

Do you support increasing the scope of the federal government’s authorities while
decreasing those of local governments towards the overall welfare of the UAE?

There is no conflict between the local and federal authorities. There are federal and local roles which are clearly
articulated by the Constitution of the UAE. All sovereign issues fall within the jurisdiction of federal
government, represented by His Highness, The President, Members of the UAE Supreme Council, The
Cabinet, The Federal National Council, Federal Law.

The federal government enjoys full authority to carry out its mandate articulated by the Constitution. Extended
or limited scope of authority is not a theoretical issue. Meanwhile, promoting non-central governmental models
and offering more authorities to local governments is now a growing trend in different parts of the world, even
in single region state. Decentralization has proven quite successful in handling development requirements,
enhancing government performance and increasing productivity of public organizations.

In the UAE, we are very keen on ensuring complementary roles and responsibilities among ministries and
federal authorities and20the local departments and establishments towards achieving highest government
performance levels across the UAE.

By Al-Sharq al-Awsat Daily

In times of crises, Dubai always comes into the world’s focus. Are you concerned by
international reports highlighting Dubai’s economic shortcomings during the global
financial downturn?

We are completely aware of our capabilities and we don’t overestimate our abilities. Dubai’s success in
introducing a unique developmental model has gained remarkable international recognition. As you know,
success implies a certain burden that cannot be avoided. The international focus on Dubai is absolutely normal.
During crises, people usually turn their attention to those who have proven a successful track record. The
current crisis has brought Dubai’s developmental model with all its successes into a tough test. Some have
speculated that Dubai will fail this test, simply because they do not know the UAE nor what Dubai has achieved
based on solid foundation of knowledge, expertise and business ties across the globe. Dubai’s achievements are
part of the UAE’s remarkable progress. I know that some people from outside the region have wished that

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024941
