made on their attractors when they were much more densely filled (Lathrop and
Kostelich , 1989). Bowen’s “shadow lemma” in support of a thin film of points over
the skelton of unstable fixed points of attractors is the fundamental reason that short
sample length time series can often discriminate between control and experimental

conditions in brain research studies.

Another recently implemented entropy, called “approximate entropy,” is
exploiting the underlying unstable fixed point skeletal shadowing principle in
expansive dynamical systems to find statistically significant differences between
control and experimental results in reasonably short, physiologically realistic,
sample lengths (Pincus, 1991; Pincus et al, 1991). This algorithm is somewhat
derivative of those involved in the computation of the correlation dimension (see
above). Instead of computing across a range (and taking the limits) of embedding
dimensions, d, and sequential paired-vectorial distances, ¢«, it empirically tailors and
fixes them to compute a “logarithmic likelihood” that points remains close through
incremental change in the time series. The “approximate entropy” is not easily
relatable to either hy and hy. One is tempted to predict that this geometrically

oriented algorithm might be fooled into a postive entropy diagnosis if applied to
strange, nonchaotic dynamical systems with fractal dimension but no 4(+) -related

mixing. Since sequence position is conserved in this computation, two
simultaneously studied (“multiparameter”) systems can be examined for their mutual
coherence as the “cross approximate entropy.” Among the interesting findings from
applications of this index to neuroendocrine studies are an increase in approximate
entropy in LH and FSH secretory patterns with age in both sexes, perhaps
quantitatively heralding menopause (Pincus and Minkin, 1998) and decreased cross
approximate entropy, a decrease in regulatory coupling between ACTH and cortisol

secretion patterns in patients with Cushing’s syndrome (Roelfsema et al, 1998).

Among the many of other empirically derived entropies, one is called “power
spectral entropy,” which is equivalent to the normalized variance of the distribution
of frequencies in a power spectral transformation of a time series (Farmer et al,

1980). This has been successfully applied to brain enzyme and receptor fluctuations

246

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013746
