e Administrative Rulings — Rulings that provide a new interpretation of the BSA or any other statute granting
FinCEN authority, express an opinion about a new regulatory issue, and/or outline the effect of the various
releases on covered financial institutions.

e Advisories/Bulletins/Rulings/Fact Sheets — An archive of advisories, advisory withdrawals, bulletins, rulings
and fact sheets dating back to 1996.

e Answers to Frequently Asked Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) Questions — A list of basic questions and answers
about BSA and USA PATRIOT Act laws and regulations.

e Reports and Publications — Reports published periodically on key regulatory issues and strategies to address
these issues including, but not limited to, the following:

o The SAR Activity Review: “Trends, Tips & Issues” — A publication produced approximately once or
twice each year by FinCEN in cooperation with many regulatory, law enforcement and industry partners.
The publication gives the public information and insight concerning the preparation, use and value of
SARs filed by institutions.

o The SAR Activity Review: “By the Numbers” — A publication that is generally produced twice each
year as a companion to The SAR Activity Review: “Trends, Tips & Issues” and provides numerical data
on SAR filings.

o Financial Institutions Outreach Initiative - Reports sharing information gathered through various
outreach initiatives with representatives in the financial industry (e.g., large depository institutions,
MSBs).

o Strategic Analytical Reports and Other Publications — Publications addressing other trends and
issues, such as Mortgage Loan Fraud: An Update of Trends Based upon an Analysis of Suspicious
Activity Reports (April 2008).

o Annual Report — Provides an overview of FinCEN’s current state and details the strategies and
outcomes of the year’s operations.

o Report to Congress — An archive of reports made to Congress by the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury
dating back to 2002, including the required annual 361(b) report.

o The Strategic Plan — Published periodically, the Strategic Plan details how FinCEN intends to achieve
its current goals in the near future.

e Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering Examination Manual for Money Services Businesses —
Guidance on the examination process of MSBs, in English and Spanish.

e Enforcement Actions — Links to enforcement actions dating back to 1999.

e Law Enforcement -— A summary of support services for law enforcement and links to law enforcement case
examples that have been assisted by information reported under BSA regulations.

e News Releases — An archive of important FinCEN news releases dating back to 1994.
e Speeches - An archive of speeches given by the director of FinCEN dating back to 2004.
e Testimony — An archive of testimony given by the director of FinCEN dating back to 2004.

26. How does FinCEN interact with banking and securities regulators?

In 2004, FinCEN entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with federal banking regulators. The MOU
sets forth procedures for the administration of the BSA, Titles | and II of Pub. L. 91-508, as amended, codified at 12
U.S.C. § 1829b, 12 U.S.C. §§ 1951-1959, and 31 U.S.C. §§ 5311-5332; information relating to the primary federal
regulators’ policies and procedures for examination of BSA compliance; significant BSA compliance issues at banking
organizations supervised by the regulators; and analytical data based on or derived from information provided by the
regulators. The MOU also gives FinCEN authority to issue its own enforcement actions, even when regulators may
not think it is necessary. On April 26, 2005, FinCEN and the New York State Banking Department entered into a
similar MOU; shortly thereafter, a number of other states followed suit.

In late 2006, the SEC and FinCEN entered into an MOU under which the SEC provides FinCEN with detailed
information on a quarterly basis regarding the AML examination and enforcement activities of the SEC and the Self-
Regulatory Organizations (SROs). In return, FinCEN provides assistance and analytical reports to the SEC.

protiviti 119

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024125
