—--- Original message —-——
From: Jeff Fuller

Date: 11/12/2014 11:49 (GMT-05:00)
To: Jean Lue Brunel

Subject: RE: New York

fean Lue,

lam really sorry you feel so bad and { know it has been a mental and psychological frustration. As you
know | chose to partner with you due to your reputation in the business for being a top scout and
developing a couple world class agencies in the past. | knew what you could bring and | knew what |
could bring and contribute and | thought it would be a great partnership. Clearly, | never expected to
have the level of challenges we have had recruiting new models over the last several years. | could have
never foreseen the problem of your friendship with Jeffrey Epstein turning into the situation it has
where you are seen as guilty by association when you have never done anything or even been convicted
ofacrime. Frankly, | don’t understand the necessity for Conchita Sarnoff or anyone else to continue to
defame your name and MC? by asscciation.

It is true that we constantly have to justify ourselves when recruiting new models. The industry is
extremely competitive and as a parent myself if faced by the same information and having to make a
tough decision between too agencies | would not pick MC2 if | saw the article online about you. You
have to read closely to see there is not a charge against you but the implication is strong and of course
now days everyone believes everything they read online even more than the traditional newspapers of
the past.

| know you are now feeling like a liability to MC2. But you personally are not a liability to MC2 but this
published information online is a liability. We are not a large enough company, nor do we have the
capacity to fight this on a global level. On a google search in America we have put enough information
online to not have it popping up so blatantly but we have no controls over the rest of the world or the
finances to control this situation and we are affected as every major model agency recruits it’s best
models from all the various countries abroad. This has stunted our growth and our billing over the past
6 or 7 years. In fact, we do not even know who avoids us based on finding this information. | have been
surprised how challenging it is for us to grow due to this problem.

| have also had a tremendous amount of worries from our clients that we are vendors for that are large
American corporations likes Kohls, JC Penney, Sears, Nordstrom, Target, Neiman Marcus, Macys, Saks,
Belk, and so forth that require vendor agreements and for us to be considered an upstanding
company. It really worries me as some of those companies have disassociated themselves from what

EXHIBIT K

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012019
