How the Best Universities Inadvertently Ruin Our Schools 185

a year (or whatever the tuition was at that time) to attend Yale and he
damn well was going to see me. I did in fact see him because he had
a point.

Professors are hard to find. There are many reasons for this. The
first is that if no one makes them see undergraduates, so why should
they? The second is that from long experience most professors have
come to understand that when an undergraduate wants to see them,
there typically is one of two motives. Either the student wants to argue
about a grade he or she received, or wants to engage the professor in
a conversation whose point is that the undergraduate is really a great
guy or gal and will be counting on a recommendation down the road.
Neither of these conversations is any too fascinating to professors so
they usually make themselves hard to find.

The funny part of this story is that the student who was making
the fuss had neither of those issues. He was exactly the sort of student
professors very much want to see. He wanted to become a professor in
my field. This is exactly who a professor wants to meet with. The con-
versation with him didn’t start out about that exactly, but it was easy
to see that he had real issues he wanted to talk about, science issues,
the kind professors wish were on the mind of every undergraduate but
rarely are. This student did in fact become a professor, the ultimate suc-
cess story for the professor who guided him there. And, no surprise, he
treats undergraduates who want to see him the same way I treated him.

There is a naive conception on the part of students in a top univer-
sity that their needs matter to the professors of that university. But the
top universities are not structured in such a way as to reward professors
who care deeply about students. If a young assistant professor spends
too much time with undergraduates, there usually will be some wiser
head who will counsel him against this behavior. Assistant professors
must be concerned with getting tenure. Having the students like you
has next to nothing to do with tenure at the top universities.

No one higher up in the administration of the university cared
much about how much I taught. “Why not?” you wonder. To answer
this, one has to understand how universities really work, why they
work that way, what game they are playing, and who wins and who
loses. The answers to these questions, well known by anyone in a top
university, are, somehow, completely unknown to the general public.
Outsiders don’t ask how Yale works. They ask how they can get their
kids into Yale. And therein lies the problem.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023931
