could face a trial. The police had taken a high school transcript, class schedules and phone messages from
Epstein's home that showed he knew the girls were underage. Yet Mr. Krischer was more swayed by Epstein's
lawyers, who attempted to impugn the girls' character by showing they had chatted on myspace.com about
smoking marijuana and drinking. He should have let a jury decide whether the victims - and Epstein - were
credible.

Ultimately, one charge against Epstein finally reflected the age of one victim, and the plea agreement left
Epstein labeled a sex offender. With that additional charge, if Epstein had been convicted at a trial, he could
have been sentenced to anything from probation to 15 years in prison, Assistant State Attorney Lanna
Belohlavek said, adding that the recommended guideline sentence was 21 months.

Epstein also won't have to certify to the court that he is receiving counseling, typically required of sex
offenders, because he has a private psychiatrist. But without court supervision, who will ensure Epstein is in
fact being treated?

The plea deal also drops a federal investigation of Epstein. If a federal investigation was warranted, how does
dropping it before completion benefit the public?

Epstein preyed on girls and denied it. For three years, his wealth and the influence of his lawyers bought him
the protection the state attorney owed to the victims.

Police chief's reputation helps discredit attacks

By Larry Keller
Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

Monday, August 14, 2006

In the case of Palm Beach financier Jeffrey Epstein, it seems, at times, as if two men are accused of
wrongdoing: Epstein and Palm Beach Police Chief Michael Reiter.

Epstein, 53, was indicted last month on a charge of felony solicitation of prostitution solely because of Reiter's
craziness, one of Epstein's lawyers said. His department disseminated a distorted view of the case and
behaved in a childish manner when the grand jury didn't indict Epstein on the charges it sought, another
Epstein lawyer complained. To hear the Epstein camp tell it, Reiter, 48, is a loose cannon better suited to be the
sheriff of Mayberry. They whisper that he's embroiled in a messy divorce.

Reiter did in fact file for divorce from his wife, Jill, last year, after 24 years of marriage. They have a son, 18,
and a daughter, 14. The couple is scheduled to go to mediation next week, Aug. 16. Nothing in the court file
suggests their split is particularly ugly.

Reiter incurred the wrath of the Epstein camp as well as the state attorney's office for two reasons. First, he
pressed for Epstein to be charged with the more serious crimes of sexual activity with minors. Second, he
slammed State Attorney Barry Krischer in blunt language seldom used by one law-enforcement official
concerning another because of what he perceived as that office's mishandling of the case.

In a letter to Krischer written May 1, Reiter called his actions in the Epstein case highly unusual. He added,
I must urge you to... consider if good and sufficient reason exists to require your disqualification from the
prosecution of these cases.

In short, Reiter told the county's top prosecutor for the past 13 years that he ought to get off the case. It looks
like a departure from professionalism, Miami-Dade State Attorney Katherine Fernandez Rundle said of
Reiter's letter.

Following Epstein's indictment, Reiter referred the case to the FBI to determine whether the super-rich, super-
connected defendant had violated any federal laws.

Reiter won't discuss the case or the broadsides aimed at him. But others almost uniformly use one word to
describe the chief: professional.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021762
