At birth, newborns preferentially listen to their native language over a non-native language. Soon
thereafter, infants prefer to listen to their native dialect over a non-native dialect, and look longer at their
own race than another race. This shows that they can discriminate between different languages, dialects,
and racial groups. But do they form social preferences based on these distinctions? Would a young baby
or child prefer to take a toy from an unfamiliar person who speaks the same or different language, from
the same or different race? To answer these questions, the American psychologist Katharine Kinzler put 5
months old babies to a test.

Babies born into mono-racial and mono-lingual families sat on their mother’s lap in front of two
monitors, each presenting short video clips of different people. After watching the videos, Kinzler
created a bit of magic. The people in the monitor appeared to emerge from the 2D image and offer the
baby a toy. The trick: a real person, hidden beneath the monitor, synchronized her reach with the reach in
the monitor. Who would the baby choose given that both people offered the same toy? Babies preferred
people speaking the native over non-native language, and native-accent over the non-native accent. At
this young age, however, they showed no preference for native over non-native race. Thus, early in life
the connection between discrimination and social preference is well established for language, but not race.
When do things change for race?

Kinzler carried out another series of experiments on race with one group of 2.5 year old children
and a second group of 5-year olds. Though the methods were somewhat different, they both focused on
the child’s preferences, including who they would share toys with and who they would prefer as friends.
The 2.5 year olds showed no preferences, whereas the 5 year olds preferred their own race. Race is
therefore a slowly developing category, at least in terms of its impact on social preferences, and especially
when contrasted with both language and accent.

Kinzler took these studies one step further to explore whether there is anything like a hierarchy
among these social categories and the features that define them. What’s more important to a young child
building an inner sanctum of trusted others —race, language, or dialect? Would they rather interact with
someone of the same race who speaks a foreign language or someone of a different race who speaks the
native language? Using similar procedures, Kinzler showed that by 4-5 years of age, language trumps
race. Children would rather interact with someone from a different race speaking the same language than
someone of the same race speaking a foreign language.

Why would language trump race? Kinzler's answer relies on an idea developed by the American
evolutionary psychologist Robert Kurzban. Imagine a hunter-gatherer in South Africa, living during the
earliest stages of our evolutionary history. As individuals searched for food to eat, areas to sleep, water to
drink, and places to avoid, they came across other individuals. These individuals were always members

of the same race. Racial differences did not emerge until relatively late in human evolution, well after our

Hauser Chapter 3. Ravages of denial 95

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012841
