made for myself, I needed some encouragement and the right words to
unlock my very soul.

Jeffrey told me the towels were on the heated rack just outside the
shower and asked me to get one and pat him down. Again putting himself
first as I sat there freezing while I compliantly patted down his body with
the white fluffy towel until he was dried. I nearly expected him to ask me
to dress him as well, but not surprisingly that came later down the track
too. I dried myself off and wiped the make-up from under my eye’s,
keeping quiet not.sure what to really say and half-embarrassed from the
entire evening’s events that just took place. I just remained silent whilst
we both got dressed until he brought me downstairs where Ghislane was
sitting at a desk holding his black leather duffel bag. When she moved
from the chair to let Jeffrey sit down, she passed him the bag and began
to tell me that | had great potential to be a massage therapist, they really
liked my style and who knows where this could lead too. She asked to see
me again tomorrow, same time after work. He opened the bag, revealing
stacks of brand-new hundred dollar bills separated with rubber bands to
count by the thousands. He grabbed one stack and took out two crisp
notes, placing them in my hand. He laughed that it was nearly my whole
week’s wage at Mar-A-Lago. Only there I didn’t have to degrade myself
as his new little toy.

When | got home my parents were anticipating my arrival. I kept it
simple and sweet with my folk’s, only telling them of the lessons about
the body I had received and the future prospects in massage therapy that
lie ahead. Nobody questioned who I was working for and complimented
my ability to be a hard worker. | quickly got out of that conversation
afraid I might give away a hint of shame in my eyes but no one caught
on. I excused myself to the bathroom to have a shower and stared into the
mirror for a moment, asking myself if] could really go through with this
only to mentally respond by reminding myself this would be as good as it
gets for a girl of my stature and limitations. I scrubbed myself rigidly in
the shower as if it would wash away the filthiness of the night, but it
didn’t help, I could still feel their hands in me and all over me and inside
of me. Trying to sleep that night was nearly impossible too, closing my
eyes only to drift away to flashbacks of the moments I had to give myself
to Jeffrey and Ghislane, each replay an exploitation of my vulnerability.

The next morning | awoke feeling anxious about the day ahead, trying to
push yesterday's memory from my thoughts, I was quiet for the whole
trip to work with my Dad. Before we got out of his car in the parking lot
he asked me if everything was okay, I lied, for his sake and mine. My life
was being transformed and I didn’t even know it yet, but soon enough I
would be a brainwashed tool only used for the sexual pleasure of others.

27

1] Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004 160

About to be entrapped in the same life | had broken free from only
months ago.

Convincing myself in order to succeed I had to step up from being a
girly teenager and start thinking like a young woman, it would be my
ticket to a great career and a fortunate life. I told myself “So what if I had
to bargain my body to this rich old geezer, some girls get themselves
through college by becoming a stripper and using their bodies to pay for
degrees, others go down even worse paths.” T guess it was just another
way to fathom the road I was going down, the effectiveness of the lies |
forced myself to believe was working as [ continued to tell myself J had
to make it any way | could rather than ever letting myself sleep on the
streets again. | was trading one shocking lifestyle for another, thinking |
was choosing the right one. If | could go back in time to ever meet myself
I would choose this time in my life. I’d start with a good hard smack to
my head to first shake some things up in there and next J would tell that
girl she could actually make it on her own if she just worked hard at
earning an honest wage and built her life up slowly. There is no rush or
time limit to ever stop reaching for achievement. Sadly enough I probably
wouldn’t of even believed myself anyways, learning my life’s hard
lessons through the experiences I continued to suffer.

I went to work at Mar-A Lago that day trying hard not to think of what
lay ahead in the afternoon too come, but the later the hour got the more
distinguished the knots became in my stomach. I spoke to no one of the
details to my explicit interview but told one girl how I was so happy I
was now Officially studying massage therapy, another lie. My friend was
surprised and intrigued that these people who could afford the best of the
best of therapists in the world chose an untrained fifteen-year-old girl to
perform a massage. She never said it in words, but her body language told
me she knew exactly why they wanted to use me and it wasn’t fora
therapeutic reason either and deep down inside [ understood.

The rest of the afternoon slipped away quickly and before I knew it I
was standing before those large wooden doors again, giving a moments
pause but long enough to draw in my breath and exhale some of the
anxiety before ringing the doorbell. Juan answered the door again and
told me Ghislane would be down in a few moments and asked to follow
him into the kitchen. There was a pleasant looking young girl with blonde
spirals in her hair that glanced up from the mound of paperwork before
her. Her shocking blue eye’s and appealing English accent seemed
delightful and she introduced herself as “Emmy”, Ghislane’s Personal
Assistant. I introduced myself as “Jenna” which is what most people
knew me as and told-her I was on an employment trial to become
Jeffrey’s massage therapist. She had a coy smile on her face that told me
she knew exactly what I was on trial for. Something in my gut told me

28

€ Copyright Protected Material

GIUFFREOO4 161

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021158
