illegitimate.

Trump was not a politician who could parse factions of support and opprobrium; he
was a salesman who needed to make a sale. “I won. I am the winner. I am not the loser,”
he repeated, incredulously, like a mantra.

Bannon described Trump as a simple machine. The On switch was full of flattery, the
Off switch full of calumny. The flattery was dripping, slavish, cast in ultimate
superlatives, and entirely disconnected from reality: so-and-so was the best, the most
incredible, the ne plus ultra, the eternal. The calumny was angry, bitter, resentful, ever a
casting out and closing of the iron door.

This was the nature of Trump’s particular salesmanship. His strategic belief was that
there was no reason not to heap excessive puffery on a prospect. But if the prospect was
ruled out as a buyer, there was no reason not to heap scorn and lawsuits on him or her.
After all, if they don’t respond to sucking up, they might respond to piling on. Bannon felt
—perhaps with overconfidence—that Trump could be easily switched on and off.

Against the background of a mortal war of wills—with the media, the Democrats, and
the swamp—that Bannon was encouraging him to wage, Trump could also be courted. In
some sense, he wanted nothing so much as to be courted.

Amazon’s Jeff Bezos, the owner of the Washington Post, which had become one of the
many Trump media bétes noires in the media world, nevertheless took pains to reach out
not only to the presidentelect but to his daughter Ivanka. During the campaign, Trump said
Amazon was getting “away with murder taxwise” and that if he won, “Oh, do they have
problems.” Now Trump was suddenly praising Bezos as “a top-level genius.” Elon Musk,
in Trump Tower, pitched Trump on the new administration’s joining him in his race to
Mars, which Trump jumped at. Stephen Schwarzman, the head of the Blackstone Group—
and a Kushner friend—offered to organize a business council for Trump, which Trump
embraced. Anna Wintour, the Vogue editor and fashion industry queen, had hoped to be
named America’s ambassador to the UK under Obama and, when that didn’t happen,
closely aligned herself with Hillary Clinton. Now Wintour arrived at Trump Tower (but
refused to do the perp walk) and suggested that she become Trump’s ambassador to the
Court of St. James’s. And Trump was inclined to entertain the idea. (“Fortunately,” said
Bannon, “there was no chemistry.”’)

On December 14, a high-level delegation from Silicon Valley came to Trump Tower to
meet the president-elect, though Trump had repeatedly criticized the tech industry
throughout the campaign. Later that afternoon, Trump called Rupert Murdoch, who asked
him how the meeting had gone.

“Oh, great, just great,” said Trump. “Really, really good. These guys really need my
help. Obama was not very favorable to them, too much regulation. This is really an
opportunity for me to help them.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019910
