JAMES PATTERSON

Seckel acquaintances, I kept hearing variations on a scheme Mrs.
Pearce Williams believed he perpetrated against her late hus-
band, the man Seckel said was his mentor. Seckel took books
and promised money, or he took money and promised a book;
but somehow, the promised party lost money.”

“He was charming, erudite, humorous,” one of Seckel’s marks
told the reporter. “I lent him $75,000. When the time came to
pay it back he didn’t want to do it.”

Oppenheimer found several people whom Seckel had stiffed
and uncovered dozens of lawsuits he'd been involved in. In 2007,
Seckel settled a libel lawsuit against a man who'd edited his Wiki-
pedia page. Years later, Oppenheimer spoke with Seckel’s lawyer,
Nicholas Hornberger.

“Hornberger confirmed that he'd reached a settlement for the
case, a favorable one,” the journalist wrote. “Hornberger added
that Seckel has still not paid him for his services.”

He also interviewed Seckel’s wife, Isabel Maxwell.

Aland Isabel met on a blind date and married in Malibu in or
“sround” 2007 (“I don’t keep the dates in my head,” Seckel

explained). A few years later, they moved to the South of France, 7
where Seckel continued to trade in rare books and papers. While
living in France, he was sued by a Virgin Islands company that
accused him and Isabel of fraudulently attempting to sell rare ©

books and a seventeenth-century portrait of Isaac Newton.

Seckel had also been trying to sell papers belonging to Isa- ‘

.

bel’s father.

Isabel is Ghislaine Maxwell's sister and the daughter of Rob-@

ert Maxwell.

reel

Jeff's. Once again, three Nobe

It was an odd thing, Epste:
PhD who, on closer inspec
But the Mindshift confer
in the Virgin Islands dic
Mann was there, along wit
coauthored books with St
expert on artificial intel]
attended the conference, s;
about it.
“We had scientific disci
he said vaguely.
When Mark Oppenheir
Seckel, Sussman “got testy”
“I have had some dealir
want to say what it’s abor
it, okay?”

Today, Epstein’s websites—

| JeffreyEpsteinScience.com—

long since expired. Several r

j tributions, including New Yc
_ Palm Beach, announced tha
| gifts.

“The further I can keep

4 better,” said Ballet Palm Beac

But in 2012, Epstein held

Stephen Hawking was also th

; wenty-one physicists—from.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022041
