target of a renewed and eager cultivation by, with quite some irony, both Blair and
Murdoch. Lacking a circle of influence in almost all of the many areas of government with
which he was now involved, Kushner was both susceptible to cultivation and more than a
little desperate for the advice his cultivators had to offer. Blair, now with philanthropic,
private diplomatic, and varied business interests in the Middle East, was particularly intent
on helping shepherd some of Jared’s Middle East initiatives.

In February, Blair visited Kushner in the White House.

On this trip, the now freelance diplomat, perhaps seeking to prove his usefulness to this
new White House, mentioned a juicy rumor: the possibility that the British had had the
Trump campaign staff under surveillance, monitoring its telephone calls and other
communications and possibly even Trump himself. This was, as Kushner might
understand, the Sabbath goy theory of intelligence. On the Sabbath, observant Jews could
not turn on the lights, nor ask someone else to turn on the lights. But if they expressed the
view that it would be much easier to see with light, and if a non-Jew then happened to turn
them on, that would be fine. So although the Obama administration would not have asked
the British to spy on the Trump campaign, the Brits would have been led to understand
how helpful it might be if they did.

It was unclear whether the information was rumor, informed conjecture, speculation, or
solid stuff. But, as it churned and festered in the president’s mind, Kushner and Bannon
went out to CIA headquarters in Langley to meet with Mike Pompeo and his deputy
director Gina Haspel to check it out. A few days later, the CIA opaquely reported back that
the information was not correct; it was a “miscommunication.”

OOK Ok

Politics had seemed to become, even well before the age of Trump, a mortal affair. It was
now zero-sum: When one side profited, another lost. One side’s victory was another’s
death. The old notion that politics was a trader’s game, an understanding that somebody
else had something you wanted—a vote, goodwill, old-fashioned patronage—and that in
the end the only issue was cost, had gone out of fashion. Now it was a battle between good
and evil.

Curiously, for a man who seemed to have led a movement based in anger and
retribution, Trump was very much (or believed he was very much) a politician of the old
stripe—a let’s-work-it-out guy. You scratch my back, I'll scratch yours. He was, in his
mind, the ultimate tactician, always knowing what the other guy wanted.

Steve Bannon had pressed him to invoke Andrew Jackson as his populist model, and
he had loaded up on Jackson books (they remained unread). But his real beau ideal was
Lyndon Johnson. LBJ was a big man who could knock heads, do deals, and bend lesser
men to his will. Trade it out so in the end everyone got something, and the better
dealmaker got a little more. (Trump did not, however, appreciate the irony of where

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020001
