will continue to say so , and you obviously decide. but I will reiterrate even in the face of your nobody is
good enough argument. keeping foremost in my mind that you and I have only beeen shown a very tiny
handful of people. 4. I find the friction over fees , counterproductive. in an attempt to avoid it I had
suggested a multi year deal early on. you rejected it. I then suggested, and urged you to have an option at a
fixed fee , you also rejected that .you wanted the fee payment only at the end I argued but ,conceded. I
suggested a structure that tom didn't like. you rejected it. 5 I suggest you make a fair proposal.- that 1 can
either accept or reject. some payment up front this time is a requirement. I am willing to modify any outstanding
obligations. - there are creative ways to assure you of your desired characterization of those payments. 6 you
should open accts at Deutsh . and goldman. I am told that eilleen has set up over one hundred bank acccts for
you???!!. few relevant 7 you should immediatly demand a list of all her acct authorites , exec poistions

. director etc. bank authorizsations. etc. talk later or over the weekend if you like

Date: Wed, Dec 9, 2015 at 10:16 AM

Subject: Fwd:

To: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com>
kkkyjkjjjkjjyou said

Date: Tue, Feb 24, 2015 at 8:20 AM
Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella iT
Leon,

Yesterday , | again spent hours upon hours of my time with your office. ,( speak to brad to get flavor) and
you and i will discuss the results in gory gruesome detail on Friday. it mirrored many other weeks spent doing
the things that I don;t have the time to do.

In order to keep things in perspective, maybe reviewing an analogy I have used before with you, might be
helpful. You and your family are a 6 billion dollar corp. with an income between 250 -500 million dollars per
year. It contains a few operating biz's , a large wide array of existing investments, in various categories ,

a desire to enter into others. A panoply of loans, notes. purchases, wide range of all types of taxes. _, planes.
boats homes. . trusts ,grats. a crazy number of bank accts. ( with no oversight ) . law firms, acct firms, 800
page tax returns, foreign firms. art consultants. construction consultants bill payers,
home mgmt.,vast multitude of Ilc's , including foreign, and with all that you only have a combined overhead
of less that 3. million dollars.

I have previously sent you the very same note that i have enclosed again below ,this time with highlights

. I wrote itto you over a year ago. As my acute disability ( selective memory) seems to have been raised
as one of your concerns , asa rule I try to memorialize things in writing in an attempt to lay out issues that I
fear may later turn out to be a problem. ie what i would and wouldn't do , - my responsibilities. ete and those
things that are not. below you will find details of things that I thought needed to be done, so that you
wouldn't find yourself in the very place where you currently find yourself. however ,you chose to defer
many of my suggestions- see below -,until only weeks ago. ! you chose to defer the jpm acct. the art
partnership on and on - into this year. and though the 60- 50 40 timber emails all carried with it a clear warning
that you needed to do something re personnel if it were to stabilize,- you chose to wait.

ONE YEAR AGO
Feb 17 2014 i wrote:

With regard the more pressing issue I am uncertain of just how to proceed. I am torn, as my very strong
inclination is not to be involved at all. It is extremely time consuming, delicate, fraught with many pitfall many
that will make you very upset and a major pain in the ass. I wrote you months ago that the quality of the people
involved need to be upgraded. ( lucky for me these last issues arose way before the beginning of my
involvement ) Iam also aware however of my overarching friendship obligations of ok, -given all the
complexities who else can do it? problem.

Your family office needs a daddy. children with good intentions are running around , sniping , nitpicking with

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023299
