How to Teach the Twelve Cognitive Processes 133

may not work for another. A leader learns to figure out who is who
and what works for each member of the team. The conscious part of
this is about learning who needs what from the leader in order for
the leader to get the most out of each individual so that the team’s
goals are achieved. The subconscious part is about interacting with
others, which is rarely conscious behavior. We get smarter through
experience. If our team wins because we functioned well as a team,
we learn to repeat the behaviors that worked. If we win because our
team was simply much bigger than the other team, then we probably
won't learn much about teamwork.

Teamwork can be taught only by examining how a team functions
and attempting to make conscious the subconscious behavior that is
not working. Thinking about what we have done that may not have
been helpful to the team, and making sure that team members’ goals
are aligned, is pretty much the only way we can learn to improve our
behavior.

HOW TO TEACH NEGOTIATION

My daughter was a little over 2 when we moved back to the United
States from Switzerland. The enormity of U.S. toy stores overwhelmed
her and it seemed that she wound up crying every time we entered
one. She wanted everything. So I had what I thought was a clever idea.
I told her that she could have two toys of her choice but that if she
cried she couldn't get any at all. We talked about it and it was clear that
she had understood what I said. She ran around the toy store and end-
ed up selecting three toys. I told her one would have to go back—that
our agreement was two. She started crying hysterically. I then said she
had to put them all back as she had violated our no crying agreement.
All of sudden, she sucked up all her tears and said in a breathless voice:
I’m not crying now. I said that we would compromise on one toy.
That was possibly her first lesson in negotiating. I say possibly
because kids and parents negotiate all the time. She and J are still ne-
gotiating. Now it is about when she will come to visit or when she will
send her son down to visit or a range of other family issues.
Negotiation is so important that it is nearly absurd to ask how we
teach negotiation. We can learn it by copying, of course, which I did
when I watched my father get a good price on a used car I was buying
that I was ready to pay much more for. But really we negotiate with

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023879
