The Brain 121

computer. The sophistication is achieved through reading and writing
many numbers in parallel, and chaining the steps together so that if you
read a particular number it triggers another read/write process, and so
on. I’m glossing over some details such as logical functions but, if you
know how a modern computer chip is constructed, my description is
not far off. Almost all logic today is implemented in tables to achieve the
speeds we expect from modern chips.

All modern computers are clocked. A small piece of quartz rock
has been polished, coated with metal, and wired up to a control circuit in
the computer. When you apply voltage to the rock it bends and absorbs
energy. When the voltage is taken away it bends back and gives out the
energy. This is effectively a pendulum and it can be used to make an
accurate clock. I used to design these for a living. Every logic gate in a
computer is connected to this clock, and each time the clock ticks the
logic gates in a computer compute.

Most modern computers are entirely synchronous. The clock rate
is set so that the gates in the computer fully recover by the time of the
next tick, and every gate is therefore ready in its standard position when
the next instruction arrives. The human brain does not have a central
clock. Each neuron acts independently — firing regardless of whether the
neurons it is adjacent to are ready or not. It is wrong to think of the brain
as digital. Each neuron does fire and recover, but it may be triggered again
before it fully recovers. This makes for a chaotic and essentially analogue
operation. If one neuron fires when a second has only half recovered, then
it gets half an effect. Ifthe neuron is 80% recovered, an 80% effect. Neuron
recovery time is quite long, perhaps as much as 1/1000 of a second, and
they are wired in three dimensions to as many as 10,000 other neurons.
It is perfectly possible for a set of neurons to run one ‘program’ when
they are rested and a completely different ‘program’ when they are 50%
recovered and yet another programs if triggered from different starting
locations. I have said ‘program, but arguing a brain runs a ‘prograny is
misleading. It is not organized like this.

Neural Networks

A neural network is our best attempt at a computer model for the human
brain. Each neuron is represented by an entry ina table. The entry records
all the connections to it, along with the strength of each connection —
these are called ‘weights. In some models the connections can be both

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015811
