were witty, poised, helpful as well as powerfully alluring (as though
stewardesses bygone times).

At one point, sliding into the seat beside me, Geraldine Laybourne,
then the head of the Nickelodeon network, whispered, with more awe than
horror, “This could be the closest ve ever come to pure evil.” (One more
thing about this trip: Google founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, came
out to see the plane and, with a few other Googlers, literally ran whopping
from one end of the plan to the other. Then they described for Epstein, in
what I can not now remember as put on or entrepreneurial brainstorm, a
brand extension in which they would market a line of Google bras with the
Os as convenient cups.)

Not long after this trip, Epstein’s assistant called to invite me for tea at
his house in New York, where Epstein, with what seemed to me little
understanding of the subject, began to ask me about media—the upside,
downside, and nature of media coverage. This magazine was then soliciting
him for a profile, as was Vanity Fair, who had assigned the British tabloid
reporter, Vicki Ward, to the job.

Both profiles pivot on the Clinton connection and detail the same
quandary, how a man without clear institutional bona fides nevertheless
achieves wealth and influence. Ward, who would more recently assert in the
Daily Beast, that she was barred by Vanity Fair from writing about under-
age sex evidence (a fact that could be read the other way: Vanity Fair, even
looking to take down Epstein, did not find the evidence credible), went
down a rabbit hole of possible questionable contacts who might or might not
have been the source or sources for Epstein’s wealth, seemed to get no
closer to an answer, beyond confirming her own sense of dubiousness.

Epstein, sensing that he might be exposing himself, tried to stop the
process (Ward, well known for an operatic view about her reporting exploits,
says he threatened her), called Carter and said he was having second
thoughts about being a public figure.

“Then you should live in a two bedroom apartment in Queens,”
responded Carter.

And then the troubles began.

Epstein, in man-who-can-have-everything fashion, has, for many
years, ordered up a daily massage following his workout sessions.

“Often these were massage massages,” says Epstein matter of factly,
“but sometimes these were happy ending massages, especially in Palm
Beach, where there are many massage parlors—‘Jack Shacks,’ they’re
called—that do outcalls. There was no sex. An often there was no happy

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022965
