Date: 7/13/06 PALM BEACH POLICE DEPARTMENT Page: 33
Time: 9:27:55 Incident Report Program: CMS301L
Case No. ... : 1-05-000368 (Continued)

collected the trash bags from the sanitation truck. I transported the
trash bags to the sanitation department, where I sifted through its
contents. I collected mail correspondences addressed to Jeffrey
Epstein as well as notepaper (Important Message) with names and
telephone numbers. The following are items collected from Epstein s
trash.

blank piece of white
black paper
black paper

MSN Hotmail web page with email address [ photmail.com)

The following items were documented for Detective Pagan s
investigation for evidentiary purposes.

b7c

On April 06, 08, 11, 12, 13, 15, 2005, at approximately 9:30 a.m, I
met with Town of Palm Beach sanitation employees. I observed the
employee enter the driveway of 358 El Brillo Way and collect the trash
from Epstein's property. I followed the employee to a predetermined
area at which time I collected the trash bags from the sanitation
truck. I transported the trash bags to the ‘sanitation department,
where I sifted through its contents.

All of the documents collected from Epstein's trash during my
assistance were turned over to Detective Pagan for evidentiary
purposes.

On June 14, 2005, Detective Michelle Pagan contacted me and advised
that the airplane belonging to Jeffrey Epstein of 358 El Brillo Way
was parked at the Palm Beach International Airport.

Detective Pagan requested that I begin en pulls for the purpose of
gathering evidence and intelligence.

I made contact with Town of Palm Beach Sanitation Office Supervisor
Tony Higgins and requested trash pulls for 358 El Brillo Way to begin
on June 15, 2005.

On June 15, 2005, I met with a sanitation employee. I observed the
employee enter the driveway of 358 El Brillo Way and collect the trash
from Epstein s property. I followed the employee to a predetermined
area at which time I collected the trash bags from the sanitation
truck. I transported the trash bags to the sanitation department,

where I sifted through its contents. The trash yielded negative
results and no evidence was collected.

No further trash was collected throughout the week due to the fact
that Epstein s security gates remained closed throughout the week;
therefore, the sanitation employees were unable to gain access onto
the property for collection of the trash.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018986

