14.16. Investment in Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures

The Principals will agree (on behalf of themselves and their affiliates) that KUE will be their exclusive
vehicle for equity investment opportunities in and acquisitions of for-profit companies engaged primarily in
the business of pre-K through 12th grade education of children (other than companies in which the
Principals or their affiliates directly or indirectly owns fifteen percent (15%) or more of the voting stock (or
similar voting interests) as of the date of the first closing of the offering, which are LeapFrog Enterprises,
Inc. and Nobel Learning Communities, Inc.). The Principals will not acquire or make an equity investment
in such companies unless such acquisition or investment opportunity has been first presented to the
Independent Committee and subsequently declined by the Independent Committee or initially pursued but
later abandoned by KUE. For purposes of the foregoing limitation on investment, an equity investment
shall not include equity securities that are (a) issued in respect of debt securities in connection with a
restructuring, reorganization, sale or other similar transaction in respect of a company; (b) issued in
connection with an exchange offer for debt securities; or (c) indirectly owned through a fund or other
investment vehicle managed by a person other than any Principal or affiliate of a Principal. The Principals
may co-invest with KUE in such companies, subject to the approval of the Independent Committee and
the co-investment rights of Investors in the Limifed Partnership Agreement.

Not in limitation of any commitments or restrictions the Principals may have entered into, prior to an Initial
Listing, KUE may not permit any of its subsidiaries or controlled joint ventures (which shall not include, for
the avoidance of doubt, certain exempt companies contempiated by the above paragraph) to issue or
grant any equity interests in such subsidiaries or controlled joint ventures to any of the Principals or any of
their affiliates (other than KUE, its subsidiaries and controlled joint ventures) unless (i) the Independent
Committee has approved and the Investors who are accredited investors (as such term is defined in
Regulation D) or otherwise legally eligible to participate are offered the opportunity to participate on the
same terms as the Principals and their affiliates and in proportion to their economic ownership of KUE or
{if} such subsidiary or joint venture of KUE has completed an initial listing on a recognized international
securities exchange. The foregoing restrictions will not apply to the Principals and/or their affiliates: (a)
exercising co-investment, purchase or other similar rights in respect of securities of K12 Inc. (including
warrants and options) held by them on the first closing of this offering and in respect of securities of K12
Inc. acquired pursuant to co-investment, purchase or other similar rights exercised in accordance with this
clause (a); (b) receiving securities of K12 Inc. (including warrants and options) as compensation for
services in their capacity as directors (or advisory board members) of K12 Inc.; or (c) exercising or
converting any warrants or options (or other securities) held as of the first closing of this offering or
acquired pursuant to clause (a) or (b).

The General Partner may offer co-investment opportunities to any person (except for the Principals and
their affiliates other than KUE’s subsidiaries and joint ventures} to invest with KUE or to invest in a
subsidiary or joint venture of KUE.

14.17. Transferability

The Common LP Units and the Class A Shares comprising the Units owned by the Investors will not be
separately transferable, and the Units are to be transferred as a whole unless otherwise approved by the
Board of Directors of the General Partner and the Independent Committee.

Units held by an Investor may not be sold, transferred or assigned without the prior written consent of the
General Partner, not to be unreasonably withheld. During the first two years after the applicable closing
of the offering, the General Partner intends to approve transfers of Units to an affiliate of the Investor in
compliance with applicable law. After such time, the General Partner intends to approve transfers of the
Units to an affiliate of the Investor or to another Investor (and affiliates thereof), in each case in
compliance with applicable law. The General Partner also intends to approve transfers pursuant to the
Tag-Along Right and Drag-Along Right provisions described below.

125

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024558
