14

be handed over to some future international body, or destroyed. “I
would certainly cheat,” the prime minister said. “And so would all the
others.” I was in no way surprised by this admission.

I agree that the problem of nuclear proliferation is real. Dealing with
it is an urgent and enormously important duty of the US government.
But it is a mistake to define the problem in such a way as to suggest
that any spread of nuclear weapons is dangerous or that nuclear
weapons in Iranian hands should be regarded as the same as nuclear
weapons in the hands of, say, Japan or Australia—or, for that matter,
that the weapons themselves are the problem. Yet the proponents of
global zero tend to deplore all nuclear weapons equally, no matter
who holds them, and to regard any diminution of their number as a
positive step because only subtraction leads to zero. But would a
reduction in the number of North Korean weapons together with an
increase in, say, those held by the French, yielding a net increase in
the number of weapons, be a bad thing? The problem is not the
weapons but the character of the regimes that possess them.

In many ways such a principle simplifies the proliferation problem
and makes it less daunting. Focus on the miscreants, on the few
countries seeking nuclear weapons whose possession of them would
be dangerous or destabilizing or both. Sanction them. Isolate them.
Undermine their regimes. Pressure them mercilessly. Do whatever it
takes. But don’t offer to aid their “peaceful” nuclear programs in
exchange for promises about weaponization that are so easily broken.
And don’t let them get away with the insulting notion that until we
ourselves disarm we have no right to demand that they halt their
clandestine programs—as if the US nuclear arsenal poses the same
danger to international peace and security as do the nuclear arsenals
of the regimes of Kim Jong-il or the [ranian clerics.

The goal of zero nuclear weapons, often referred to by its sponsors as
a “moral imperative,” inevitably delegitimizes and undermines

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023500
