stereotypes?

Guys who identify as straight BDSM submissives are one fabulous example of non-
normative men who are frequently alienated from mainstream masculine sexuality, but
who often don't have a forum. Men with small penises are a second. There are lots of
others. In the words of sex blogger and essayist Thomas Millar: The common
understanding of male sexuality is a stereotype, an ultra-narrow group of desires and
activities oriented around PIV [penis-in-vagina], anal intercourse and blowjobs; oriented
around cissexual women partners having certain very narrow groups of physical
characteristics.”

Still, that doesn't mean that straight, dominant, big-dicked dudes who love boning thin
chicks feel totally okay about the current state of affairs. It just means they tend to have
less immediate motivation to question it. They also have less of an eye for spotting
gender oppression, because -- though they've got their own boxes hemming them in --
they're still more privileged than the rest of us, and the nature of privilege is to blind the
privileged class to its existence.

A male submissive once told me, Lots of heteronormative men know something is
wrong with the way we think about sex and gender. I can see them struggling with it
when we talk. They can't put their finger on it; they have a hard time engaging it. But I
engage it all the time; I have to, because my sexuality opposes it.”

When is it to a man's advantage to examine and question masculinity and stereotypes of
male sexuality? Which men are motivated to do so?

It's tempting to assert that men whose desires fit neatly (or at least mostly) within the
stereotype have it made -- after all, their sexuality works within the norm so many of us
struggle to escape. But I've had this assumption corrected several times, usually by smart
stereotypical men themselves. At one point, while developing a sexuality workshop, I
sent the outline to a bunch of friends. The original draft contained this paragraph: Our
sexual scripts favor a certain stereotype of men and male sexual pleasure, which makes it
hard for women to figure out what we really want and what we really enjoy, and also
makes it harder for non-stereotypical men to figure that out. One friend sent that
paragraph back, having quietly appended: ... as well as for stereotypical men to discover
or explore new desires beyond the stereotypical script.”

When we discuss the limitations around sexuality from a non-normative perspective, how
do we exclude normative people who might develop themselves in new directions if they
had the chance? What do normative men stand to gain by thinking outside the box about
masculinity and sexuality?

te ok ok
Questions I Want To Ask Entitled Cis Het Men, Part 2: Men's Rights

In the 2006 documentary Boy I Am, a trans man talks about how one of his mental
barriers to transitioning was the fact that after transition, he would be a white male.
And, he laughs, the last thing in the world he wanted to be was a white male!

A year or two ago, I attended a lecture by Jackson Katz, a rather overtly masculine, cis

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018575
