Recourse to the Fund’s Assets

The Fund’s assets, including any investments made by the Fund and any funds held by the
Fund, are available to satisfy all liabilities and other obligations of the Fund. If the Fund
becomes subject to a liability, parties seeking to have the liability satisfied may have recourse to
the Fund’s assets generally and will not be limited to any particular assets, such as the asset
representing the investment giving rise to the liability. Accordingly, investors could find their
interest in the Fund’s assets adversely affected by a liability arising out of an investment of the
Fund.

Contingent Liabilities on Disposition of Investments

In connection with the disposition of an investment in a portfolio company or otherwise, the
Fund may be required to make representations about the business and financial affairs of the
portfolio company typical of those made in connection with the sale of any business. The Fund
may also be required to indemnify the purchasers of such portfolio company to the extent that
any such representations turn out to be inaccurate. These arrangements may result in
contingent liabilities, which might ultimately have to be funded by the investors to the extent of
their Commitment to the Fund or previous distributions made to them.

Certain Litigation Risks

The Fund will be subject to a variety of litigation risks, particularly if one or more of its portfolio
companies face financial or other difficulties during the term of the Fund. Legal disputes,
involving any or all of the Fund, the General Partner, its partners or its affiliates, may arise from
the Fund’s activities and investments and could have a significant adverse effect on the Fund.

Indemnification

The Fund will be required to indemnify, among others, the General Partner, the general partner
of the General Partner, the Management Company, the Fund Managers, their respective
partners, members, employees, venture partners and affiliates, the Fund’s other agents and
members of the Advisory Board for liabilities incurred in connection with the affairs of the
Fund. Such liabilities may be material. For example, in their capacity as directors of portfolio
companies, the partners, managers, or affiliates of the General Partner may be subject to
derivative or other similar claims brought by security holders of such companies. The
indemnification obligations of the Fund would be payable from the assets of the Fund,
including the unused capital commitments of the Partners. If the assets of the Fund are
insufficient to pay such indemnification obligations, the Limited Partners may be required to
return distributions previously made to them in order to satisfy such obligations.

Changes

The Fund’s investment program is intended to extend over a period of years, during which the
business, economic, political, regulatory, and technology environment within which the Fund
operates may undergo substantial changes, some of which may be adverse to the Fund. The
General Partner will have the exclusive right and authority (within limitations set forth in the
Partnership Agreement) to determine the manner in which the Fund shall respond to such
changes, and Limited Partners generally will have no right to withdraw from the Fund or to
demand specific modifications to the Fund’s operations in consequence thereof. A major
recession or adverse developments in the securities or credit markets might have an impact on
some or all of the Fund’s investments. A sustained period of inactivity and/or low valuations

68 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024079
