emotionally intense and challenging, a job that can be bad for many people at many times
in their lives -- without letting go of the fact that some people can and do freely consent
to the job. (The sex worker Mistress Matisse has written a fair bit on sex work and
emotional labor. And male sex workers don't always have an easy time; the porn star
Tyler Knight has written about some of his more difficult moments, too.)

The point is not sex work is bad and should be banned -- but nor is it sex work is
glamorous and fun! The point is, sex work is often hard work, even for people who are
not mistreated or abused. As such, it deserves both respect (from outsiders) and open-
eyed caution (from those who consider taking it up).

Olivia's not sure she's done with sex work for good. The door is still open for future
involvement,” she told me, last time we met for coffee. If I do go back, I think I may try
for straight-up escorting, but I'm not really sure.... Presumably, working as an escort
rather than being a sugar baby might evade some of these confusing, strangely-
negotiated situations. Would it evade all of them? It's hard to say.

Regardless, I wish her luck.
TK OK ok

After June 1, 2012, this can be found on the Internet at:

http://clarissethorn.com/blog/2012/06/01/a-sugar-baby-leaves-the-business/

Section 2 Study Guide

This section was intended mostly to highlight various other perspectives that I feel are
significant to sex and/or activism.

te ok ok

1. Do you see your sexual identity as placing you in a community, or is it more private?
Or is it a little bit of both?

la. If you identify as part of a sex community, then are there ways you can contribute to
that community? (For example, if you had evidence that abusive relationships were a
problem in your community, what could you do about it?)

KOK ok

2. What kind of educational needs do you perceive around sexuality? Is there a way you
could contribute to positive sex education?

2a. Does your community have specific or unique needs around sex education?

2b. If you have children, how do you plan to educate them about sex? Specifically, how
do you plan to tell them about the stereotypes and limitations affecting the different

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018617
