15.3 Dual Network Structure 281

preferential attachment, because Atoms with more links will tend to get more STI, and thus
will tend to get selected by more cognitive processes, which will cause them to grow more
links. For this reason, in most circumstances, a CogPrime system in which most link-building
cognitive processes rely heavily on ECAN to guide their activities will tend to contain a small-
world-network Atomspace. This is not rigorously guaranteed to be the case for any possible
combination of environment and goals, but it is commonsensically likely to nearly always be
the case.

One consequence of the small worlds structure of the Atomspace is that, in exploring other
properties of the Atom network, it is particularly important to look at the hub nodes. For
instance, if one is studying whether hierarchical and heterarchical subnetworks of the Atomspace
exist, and whether they are well-aligned with each other, it is important to look at hierarchical
and heterarchical connections between hub nodes in particular (and secondary hubs, etc.). A
pattern of hierarchical or dual network connection that only held up among the more sparsely
connected nodes in a small-world network would be a strange thing, and perhaps not that
cognitively useful.

15.3 Dual Network Structure

One of the key theoretical notions in patternist philosophy is that complex cognitive systems
evolve internal dual network structures, comprising superposed, harmonized hierarchical and
heterarchical networks. Now we explore some of the specific CogPrime structures and dynamics
militating in favor of the emergence of dual networks.

15.3.1 Hierarchical Networks

The hierarchical nature of human linguistic concepts is well known, and is illustrated in Figure
15.2 for the commonsense knowledge domain (using a graph drawn from WordNet, a huge con-
cept hierarchy covering 50K+ English-language concepts), and in Figure 15.4 for a specialized
knowledge subdomain, genetics. Due to this fact, a certain amount of hierarchy can be expected
to emerge in the Atomspace of any linguistically savvy CogPrime, simply due to its modeling
of the linguistic concepts that it hears and reads.

Hierarchy also exists in the natural world apart from language, which is the reason that many
sensorimotor-knowledge-focused AGI systems (e.g. DeSTIN and HTM, mentioned in Chapter
4 above) feature hierarchical structures. In these cases the hierarchies are normally spatiotem-
poral in nature - with lower layers containing elements responding to more localized aspects
of the perceptual field, and smaller, more localized groups of actuators. This kind of hierarchy
certainly could emerge in an AGI system, but in CogPrime we have opted for a different route.
If a CogPrime system is hybridized with a hierarchical sensorimotor network like one of those
mentioned above, then the Atoms linked to the nodes in the hierarchical sensorimotor network
will naturally possess hierarchical conceptual relationships, and will thus naturally grow hier-
archical links between them (e.g. InheritanceLinks and IntensionalInheritanceLinks via PLN,
AsymmetricHebbianLinks via ECAN).

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013197
