forthcoming ) in order to make my many corrections. I was then told that Alans involvement warranted a
discount. Even in the best of light , though it is beyond question that not one-,not -one time in three

years has he ever proposed a unique idea. (including the new tenant in common idea,) and lets say he made
a contribution to the plan andeven that it was 50 %. though no one could posit such a large amount unless they
were wearing a brightly colored clown suit. , the price of doing the deal was known . It had both sent in
writing and spoken about on the phone numerous times ,_ a detailed execution plan was provided . then and
only then after all was laid out for the group I was told that after a number of conversations with brad karp
that only 20m would be paid , (and even that was more than originally contemplated ) for both transactions . I
feel It was remarkably unfair. Did brad even know of our prior agreement.? I called him and he said he was
never told.?, I would ask that you I and Brad karp sit together if you think it would be helpful. . I would like to
send him this email, with your consent of course. Ifthe transactions were never consummated , i would not be
owed a dime, however , the price was known up front. , the detailed step by step plan was followed and
overseen by me, the price that had been requested before the transaction was begun, and had Iready heavily
discounted, out of friendship, from our agreement . I believe the decision re paying only 20 m has frankly

left me felling quite uneasy.

since you asked since last nov. ifound 11 million dollars in dormant accounts. 4 million dollars in eileens
drawer. . went through cash flows for phaidon shwoing that john murphy is not an accountant. redid your
gagosian contract ,. organized structure in case of divorce. set up gift trust. stopped ada from including
multiple times things not in your interest. dealt with bad sales tax use tax income tax . created 8 millino in
deductions ,500k in mistakes , found bank of scotland fbar problems, . . reorg bad art purchases , funds taken, ,
charibale decustions , helped with fincnacil sttment gamoing commions fling. . boat deductions, rescued stock
from grats.. may 1 after months of brad not finding anyone i sent an email saying you would have to pay
more. . on april 15. I sent an email detailing payments owed if i could figure out the basis issue, please see
attached, .

questions you might ask your team ask them to provide a balance sheet or p&l for REgan arts. . doesnt exist
ask . either wechsler or haperin to tell you what brh is, or how the tra works. .. ? as bronstein to tell you why
the proposed phaidon transaction DOES not work. . as them to give you a plan for the plane. ? ask them to
show you the cash mgmt for over 100 million dollars. . ask them to show you the IT system progress after one
year. . the approval process for payables. . the cash flow projections? assumptions? ask for a comparative
review of investments. ask haperin to describle to you in any detail BRH , the major asset of his two biggest
clients. tax basis, disposiotion in the estate. . etc. ask brad to show you the liquidation of the inteveing art space
cos? .

Last year you asked , for my help I told you I preferred not as we would be better off having no financial
intereactions. the risk was not worth it. You told me that as my friend i had to do it Iagreed., here we are
in what I find to be an awkward situation. the transactions that i decvised were used , our agreement was
ignored. and im not sure how to respond.

since you asked since last nov. ifound 11 million dollars in dormant accounts. 4 million dollars in eileens
drawer... went through cash flows for phaidon shwoing that john murphy is not an accountant. redid your
gagosian contract ,. organized structure in case of divorce. set up gift trust. stopped ada from including
multiple times things not in your interest. dealt with bad sales tax use tax income tax . created 8 millino in
deductions ,500k in mistakes , found bank of scotland fbar problems, . . reorg bad art purchases , funds taken, ,
charibale decustions , helped with fincnacil sttment gamoing commions fling. . boat deductions, rescued stock
from grats.. may | after months of brad not finding anyone i sent an email saying you would have to pay
more. . on april 15. I sent an email detailing payments owed if i could figure out the basis issue, please see
attached, .

questions you might ask your team ask them to provide a balance sheet or p&1 for REgan arts. . doesnt exist

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023306
