15

police officers and a 13-year-old boy caught in the crossfire,
according to Gen. Saleh el-Masry, head of North Sinai security.
Masry said that the attackers belonged to the radical Islamist group
Takfir wal-Hijra, as well as Palestinian factions that snuck through
the tunnels. The Takfiris -- extremist militants with a dogmatic,
exclusionary ideology -- have become more active during the
revolution, he said, claiming that Egyptian security forces had
arrested 12 of the assailants in the el-Arish attack, including three
Palestinians. The spike in violence has been fueled by outlaws who
escaped Egypt's prisons during the anarchy that accompanied
Mubarak's fall. Deputy Interior Minister Gen. Ahmed Gamal El Din
told me in an interview that 23,000 criminals escaped from Egypt's
prisons during the revolution and that only 7,300 had been rearrested
or turned themselves in as of May. The prison breaks also freed some
men allegedly linked to al Qaeda, who appear to be attempting to
establish a foothold in Sinai's ungoverned spaces. Maj. Yaser Atia of
Egypt's General Security confirmed that Ramzi Mahmoud al-Mowafi,
also known as the chemist for his expertise in preparing explosives,
escaped a Cairo prison on Jan. 30. The fugitive's prison files
presented to me indicate that the 59-year-old Egyptian had fled to
Afghanistan and joined al Qaeda. Upon his return to Egypt he was
given a life sentence by a military tribunal, though more details on
the charges against him remain unclear. Egyptian intelligence sources
told me that Mowafi is currently in Sinai, though they played down
the threat he posed. And then there is the matter of the fliers. On July
29, the residents of el-Arish found a flier labeled A statement from
al Qaeda in the Sinai Peninsula distributed throughout their
neighborhoods. It describes Islam as the only true religion and
criticizes the Camp David agreement that led to the Israeli-Egyptian
peace treaty. Gen. Abdel-Wahab Mabrouk, the governor of North

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024606
