and output to sense organs and muscles, then we would reproduce, in a physical artifact,
the observed manifestations of natural intelligence. Nothing observable would be
missing. As an observer, I'd have no less (and no more) reason to ascribe consciousness,
creativity, or evil to that artifact than I do to ascribe those properties to its natural
counterparts, like other human beings.

Thus, by combining Crick’s “astonishing hypothesis” in neurobiology with
powerful evidence from physics, we deduce that natural intelligence is a special case of
artificial intelligence. That conclusion deserves a name, and I will call it “the astonishing
corollary.”

With that, we have the answer to our three questions. Since consciousness,
creativity, and evil are obvious features of natural human intelligence, they are possible
features of artificial intelligence.

A hundred years ago, or even fifty, to believe the hypothesis that mind emerges
from matter, and to infer our corollary that natural intelligence is a special case of
artificial intelligence, would have been leaps of faith. In view of the many surrounding
gaps—chasms, really—in contemporary understanding of biology and physics, they were
genuinely doubtful propositions. But epochal developments in those areas have changed
the picture:

In biology: A century ago, not only thought but also metabolism, heredity, and
perception were deeply mysterious aspects of life that defied physical explanation.
Today, of course, we have extremely rich and detailed accounts of metabolism, heredity,
and many aspects of perception, from the bottom up, starting at the molecular level.

In physics: After a century of quantum physics and its application to materials,
physicists have discovered, over and over, how rich and strange the behavior of matter
can be. Superconductors, lasers, and many other wonders demonstrate that large
assemblies of molecular units, each simple in itself, can exhibit qualitatively new,
“emergent” behavior, while remaining fully obedient to the laws of physics. Chemistry,
including biochemistry, is a cornucopia of emergent phenomena, all now quite firmly
grounded in physics. The pioneering physicist Philip Anderson, in an essay titled “More
Is Different,” offers a classic discussion of emergence. He begins by acknowledging that
“the reductionist hypothesis [1.e., the completeness of physical explanations based on
known interactions of simple parts] may still be a topic for controversy among
philosophers, but among the great majority of active scientists I think it is accepted
without question.” But he goes on to emphasize that “[t]he behavior of large and
complex aggregates of elementary particles, it turns out, is not to be understood in terms
of a simple extrapolation of the properties of a few particles.”!> Each new level of size
and complexity supports new forms of organization, whose patterns encode information
in new ways and whose behavior is best described using new concepts.

Electronic computers are a magnificent example of emergence. Here, all the
cards are on the table. Engineers routinely design, from the bottom up, based on known
(and quite sophisticated) physical principles, machines that process information in
extremely impressive ways. Your iPhone can beat you at chess, quickly collect and
deliver information about anything, and take great pictures, too. Because the process
whereby computers, smartphones, and other intelligent objects are designed and
manufactured is completely transparent, there can be no doubt that their wonderful

1S Science, 4 August 1972, Vol. 177, No. 4047, pp. 393-96.

57

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016277
