Wherefore we must pitch upon some limited number, and that I apprehend
to be the number of years, which I conceive one man of fifty years old,
another of twenty eight, and another of seven years old, all being alive
together may be thought to live; that is to say, of a Grandfather, Father and
Childe; few men having reason to take care of more remote Posterity: for ifa
man be a great Grandfather, he himself is so much nearer his end, so as there
are but three in a continual line of descent usually coexisting together; and as
some are Grandfathers at forty years, yet as many are not till above sixty, and
sic de eteteris.

20. Wherefore | pitch the number of years purchase, that any Land is
naturally worth, to be the ordinary extent of three such person their lives.
Now in England we esteem three lives equal to one and twenty years, and
consequently the value of Land, to be about the same number of years
purchase. Possibly if they thought themselves mistaken. ...(as the observer
on the Bills of Mortality thinks they are...)

21....Butin other Countreys Lands are worth nearer thirty years purchase,
by reason of the better titles, more people, and perhaps truer opinion of the
value and duration of three lives.

23. One the other hand, Lands are worth fewer years purchase (as in
Ireland) ... by reason of the frequent rebellions. . .”

The “other Countreys” could include France and especially Holland, then models of
prosperity. Petty had made his fortune in Irish mortgages, and knew the years

purchase there.

But the argument is a puzzle. There is a focus on longevity and mortality, as if the
generations are providing for old age. But Petty’s overlapping generations model
cannot be much like Paul Samuelson’s of three centuries later, where a generation of
productives leaves a nest egg for retirement. Samuelson’s productives are
replenished exogenously, with children left to the imagination. Why would Petty
have mentioned their ages? And retirement at age 50, as anorm, would have made

no sense to Petty or his readers. The grandfather will stay in harness.

Chapter 7 Petty’s Idea 2/3/16 15

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011074
