How Not to Teach 179

to satisfy the teacher or at least to satisfy their own needs in these
areas. The problem is, as I stated originally, that learning starts with a
goal and that the students’ goals may not be the same as the teacher’s
goals. Since the students have no Dickens-related goal, and actually
have a teacher satisfaction goal, they simply have misestimated what
will satisfy the teacher.

Now let’s consider real goals. Students do not stop driving a car
because they are tired even though they haven’t arrived where they
are going. They do not fail to ask out Mary Lou on a date because
they got bored talking mid-sentence. They do not give up on hitting
a baseball mid-swing or midway through the game. People put in the
effort required when they are working on truly held goals. Subject-
based goals are almost never truly held. But cognitive process goals
are nearly always truly held if the student is working on real things. If
school wants to deal with artificial things (flying an air flight simula-
tor instead of a real plane, for example, in order to learn to fly), then
those artificial things need to feel very real and be very motivating.

Rule #6: Try teaching students things they actually may need to
know after they leave school.

Here is mistake #7.

Mistake# 7: Correcting a student who is doing something wrong
by telling him what to do instead

This one seems really weird. Wouldn’t you tell someone to do
things differently or what went wrong when you see them making
a mistake? Most of us would because this seems a reasonable thing
to do. It just isn’t a reasonable thing for a teacher to do. A teacher
needs to help a student think about what went wrong as opposed to
telling him what went wrong and how to fix it. What do you think
happened? Why did it happen, do you suppose? What could you have
done differently?

Why does this matter? It matters because self-generated explana-
tions are remembered more easily than explanations that we are told.
It actually is quite difficult to remember anything you have been told.
It is much easier to remember what you yourself have thought up,
in part because you probably spent some time doing it, considered

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023925
