giving them to their partners. (The amazing sex education site Scarleteen later
implemented the same idea, in a much more comprehensive way than I had!) I suggested
that partners write out their fantasies and email them to each other, or write out
descriptions of their mutual sexual experiences -- long accounts, describing how they felt
about everything and what sticks out in their minds -- and send those to each other, too,
so they can get each others’ perspectives on what they've done.

(By the way, I still offer a much-improved version of that workshop on my list of events,
lectures, and workshops, just in case you're interested in bringing me in....)

God, it's so hard to talk about what we want. It's even hard to talk about talking about
what we want. I mean, it's hard enough to figure out what we want in the first place -- but
communicating it... eeek! And it's worth noting that this is not just a problem of having
good sex. As was pointed out recently on the blog for the wonderful sex-positive
anthology Yes Means Yes!:

[There is a] need to demystify and destigmatize communication about sex. If we can't talk
about what we like and what we want, we will always have problems making clear what
it is we're consenting to. If we can't be frank about what we do want, we put a lot of
weight on the need to communicate what we don't.

Giving everyone great sexual communication skills doesn't just give us all better sex -- it
fights rape. There's a noble cause for you!

... SO, that's my five-pointed analysis. And that's what I'm pushing for. My goals are not
Just to get people thinking that sex is awesome and sexual freedom is important. It's
going to be hard, and it's going to be an uphill battle, but I'm hoping that I can not only
help out with sexual liberation -- I'm hoping to improve it.

KOK ok

This can be found on the Internet at:

http://clarissethorn.com/blog/2010/11/11/classic-repost-liberal-sex-positive-sex-

education-whats-missing/

COMMUNICATION:

[theory] Sex Communication Tactic Derived From S&M: The
Annotated Safeword

As soon as I started researching S&M and thinking critically about the communication
tactics promoted in the S&M community, I realized that there were a lot of really
important lessons wrapped up in those tactics -- lessons that could be deconstructed and
applied to all kinds of sexuality. From the beginning, I planned to do a series of posts on
Sex Communication Tactics Derived from S&M, but I only got around to it in 2010.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018465
