» Craigslist ( www.craigslist.org )

Besides local weekly magazines with housing listings, such as Bild or Zitty (no joke) in Berlin, I have
found Craigslist to be the single best starting point for long-term overseas furnished apartments. As of
this writing, there are more than 50 countries represented. That said, prices will be 30-70% less in the
local magazines—if you have a tight budget, get a hostel employee or other local to help you make a few
calls and strike a deal. Ask the local helper not to mention you’re a foreigner until pricing is agreed
upon.

» Interhome International ( www.interhome.com )

Based in Zurich, more than 20,000 homes for rent in Europe.

> Rentvillas.com ( www.rentvillas.com )

Provides unique renting experiences—from cottages and farmhouses to castles—throughout Europe,
including France, Italy, Greece, Spain, and Portugal.

Computer Remote Access and Backup Tools

= GoToMyPC ( www.gotomypc.com

This software facilitates quick and easy remote access to your computer’s files, programs, e-mail, and
network. It can be used from any web browser or wireless device and works in real time. I have used
GoToMyPC religiously for more than five years to access my U.S.-based computers from countries and
islands worldwide. This gives me the freedom to leave all computers at home.

=> WebExPCNow ( http://pcnow.webex.com )

WebEx, the leader in corporate remote access, now offers software that does most of what GoToMyPC
offers, including cut and paste between remote computers, local printing from remote computers, file
transfers, and more.

» DropBox (www.getdropbox.com) and SugarSyne

(www.sugarsync.com); then JungleDisk (www.jungledisk.com) and Mozy (www.mozy.com) Both
DropBox and SugarSync perform backups and synching of files between multiple computers (home and

travel computers, for example). JungleDisk and Mozy—lI use the latter—have fewer features and are
more specifically designed for automatic backups to their online storage.

Free and Low-Cost Internet (IP) Telephones

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013975
