I ve have always given you my best advice, If you reflect on your financial life , you have been kept safe ,
had remarkable results and no disasters. I have repeatedly urged you to get rid of the people in your
office. , you have repeatedly chosen to ignore my advice , you told me last week that the emotional
reason was in order to be weaned off my group and not have to pay my high fees. ( though ignoring
the benefit of between 1.5 and 2b to the better. ). and no explosions. | You have email after email
,where i remind you that I am not your bookkeeper or accountant (in brads corporate speak his finance
dept ??!!) that it should be redone .I have reviewed a multitude of the silly reports given to you and
have pointed out the continued numerous inaccuracies. your question  so what if the numbers are off ,
so what if the categories are off. whats the big deal??. I suggest you de risk you finances and make the
tough decisions necessary - pay the right amounts ( high) to get the work done properly or , you are , Im
afraid, certain to get an unhappy answer.. tom will be back from vacation. this week.

n--------- Forwarded mes

From: Halperin, Alan 5  §

Date: Thu, Apr 28, 2016 at 5:16 PM

Subject: Valuation Discount

To: jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com>

I am attaching a draft response frong Empire Valuation as to why it arrived at a valuation discount on the

low end. Let’s discuss the response and next steps. Thanks. Alan

Date: Tue, Feb 24, 2015 at 8:20 AM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spin; i iii >

Leon,

Yesterday , I again spent hours upon hours of my time with your office. ,( speak to brad to get
flavor) and you and 1 will discuss the results in gory gruesome detail on Friday. it mirrored many other
weeks spent doing the things that I don;t have the time to do.

In order to keep things in perspective, maybe reviewing an analogy I have used before with you,

might be helpful. You and your family are a 6 billion dollar corp. with an income between 250 -500
million dollars per year. It contains a few operating biz's , a large wide array of existing investments,
in various categories ,a desire to enter into others. A panoply of loans, notes. purchases, wide range
of all types of taxes. , planes. boats homes. . trusts ,grats. a crazy number of bank accts. ( with no
oversight ) . law firms, acct firms, 800 page tax returns, foreign firms. art consultants.
construction consultants bill payers, home mgmt.,vast multitude of Ilc's , including foreign, and with
all that you only have a combined overhead of less that 3 million dollars.

I have previously sent you the very same note that i have enclosed again below ,this time with
highlights . I wrote it to you over a year ago. As my acute disability ( selective memory) seems to
have been raised as one of your concerns , as aruleI try to memorialize things in writing in an
attempt to lay out issues that I fear may later turn out to be a problem. ie what 1 would and wouldn't
do , - my responsibilities. ete and those things that are not. below you will find details of things that I
thought needed to be done, so that you wouldn't find yourself in the very place where you currently
find yourself. however ,you chose to defer many of my suggestions- see below -,until only weeks ago.
! you chose to defer the jpm acct. the art partnership on and on - into this year. and though the 60- 50

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023266
