when they hold such beliefs? Can they
be made to feel less lonely by calling
them to mind? More specifically, how
does the influence of this construal on
feelings of social isolation compare with
that of other construals—for example, a
construal that directly associates God’s
creative influence with the irredeemable
bad? How might the stronger sense of
God’s presence in the hardships one
suffers balance out in the latter case
against the unhappy quality of the
connection? Might one feel oneself to be
better off alone, in other words, if God is
as much one’s tormentor as one’s
benefactor? Finally, comparable
problems to the ones for belief surface in
the more experience-driven God-as-
friend outlook in Christianity, and make
experimental testing pertinent.” If the
problem in both cases is that a strong
sense of connection with God is hard to
sustain—because God is invisible in the
one case or crowded out by more
obviously pressing matters in the
other—how is the imaginative force of
the idea of relationship with God better
shored up? By imagining that one is ona
date with God, or by imagining that God
is always all around one like the air one
breathes or the sun that shines? And
what works for the greater number of
people? What if the former imaginative
capacities are hard to cultivate, and
require in any case exceptional abilities
of concentration or inward focus that
many people lack? Might beliefs be
easier for most people to hold in mind
without sustained or disciplined
practice? A simple visit to church or
occasional perusal of a prayer book
would do?

References

* For the general importance of belief for such
investigation, see the essays by W. Clark Gilpin
and Tanya Luhrmann in this volume.

Pa

at
Q

»e |127

¢

1 . .
See Luhrmann in this volume.

* Thomas Aquinas is one prominent theologian
in the Christian tradition who highlights this
idea: “creation... is the very dependency of the
created act of being upon the principle [God]
from which it is produced.” Summa Contra
Gentiles, Book Two: Creation, trans. James F.
Anderson (Notre Dame and London: University
of Notre Dame Press, 1975), chapter 18, section
2, p.55.

*See again, for example, Thomas Aquinas,
Summa Contra Gentiles, Book Two: Creation,
chapters 31-38, pp. 91-115.

‘ See, for example, Martin Luther, Lectures on
Galatians (1535), in Luther’s Works, ed. Jaroslav
Pelikan (St Louis, Missouri: Concordia Publishing
House, 1964), vols. 26-27.

* Thomas Aquinas again provides a clear
theological exposition of this view. See, for
example, his Summa Contra Gentiles, Book
Three: Providence, Part 1, trans. Vernon J.
Bourke (Notre Dame and London: University of
Notre Dame Press, 1975), chapter 70, section 8,
p. 237: “It is also apparent that the same effect
is not attributed to a natural cause and to divine
power in such a way that it is partly done by
God, and partly by the natural agent; rather, it is
wholly done by both.”

* For prominent examples of such a view in the
history of Christian thought, see Augustine, The
Literal Meaning of Genesis, trans. John
Hammond Taylor (New York: Newman Press,
1982), chapters 10-12, pp. 49-51; and Cyril of
Alexandria, Commentary on the Gospel
According to John, trans. P. E. Pusey (Oxford:
James Parker, 1874), Book 1, chapters 7-9, pp.
66-87.

. See, for example, Athanasius, “On the
Incarnation of the Word,” trans. Archibald
Robertson, in Philip Schaff and Henry Wace
(eds.), Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers, vol. lV,
Second Series (Grand Rapids, Michigan:
Eerdmans, 1957), sections 3-5, pp. 37-39.

‘ See, for example, Gregory of Nyssa, “Answer to

Eunomius’ Second Book,” trans. M. Day, in Philip
Schaff and Henry Wace (eds.), Nicene and Post-

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021373
