49

e Attempts to control the agendas, participant name lists, what is written, and
what is said at joint scholarly conferences held in China, and now sometimes
even in the United States. (A recent technique is to require that a talk or paper
by an American participant in a Chinese organized event be handed over to the
organizing group for vetting well before the event itself, so a participant can be
disinvited, if necessary.)

e Restriction of internet and email communications when in China.

e¢ Monitoring, even following, some American scholars by security services while
in China.

e Demands for censorship by foreign publishers of their digital content as a
condition for allowing it to be made available online in China.

e Insistence on censorship of Chinese-language editions of foreign books by the
State Press & Publishing Administration. This places foreign authors in the
difficult position of having to acquiesce to such censorship in order to have
translations of their books published in China.

e Censorship of online archives of PRC journals and publications, such as
the China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI) database. American
universities each pay tens of thousands of dollars annually for access to these
electronic databases. However, recent research has shown that CNKI in particular
is now “curating” its catalogs and holdings by deleting articles the current
government appears not to wish to see remaining in the historical record.” Since
American universities have started to dispose of paper copies of many of the
journals carried in CNKI (China National Knowledge Information) periodical
index, this amounts to PRC distorting the historical record, not just for China
but for the entire world.

In addition to these specific restrictions affecting American scholars, the PRC
government also influences the field of Chinese studies in the United States (and
elsewhere) via controls over key regions of their country (especially minority areas
such as Tibet and Xinjiang) and by putting no-go zones around a wide variety of
research subjects within the broader areas of politics, religion, ethnography, and civil
society that cannot be researched in-country. As a result, American professors cannot
themselves work in these areas, nor can they in good conscience advise their graduate
students to work on these subjects either because of risk to the researcher’s career, as
well as to the human subjects whom researchers would be observing or interviewing.
Such restrictions have real consequences for the open future of Chinese studies around
the world.

Section 4

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020508
