in thousands of blogs and other written forums and converts this unstructured content
into structured information to support better-informed decision making by patients,
providers, and pharmaceutical marketing teams.

e Investment Theme - Patient Engagement / Shift to Low-Cost Setting: As incentives move

away from procedural volume and towards cost-effective quality and outcomes,
providers and care delivery organizations are seeking ways to deliver care outside of the
hospital or physicians’ office through technologies that may allow remote monitoring,
and empowers other healthcare professionals, or even patients to play a greater role in
patient care and well-being. Audax Health (NLV-IJ; exited at 3.4x) touches on this
theme with its Zensey product, which engages patients in their own health through
programs endorsed by their payer.

Problem Area: Inflated Pricing & Fraud

e Investment Theme - Price & Cost Transparency, Financial Error Reduction: Error reduction
can generate significant cost savings at the enterprise level. Truveris (NLV-II) allows

self-insured employers to verify the accuracy of all pharmaceutical benefit claims from
their pharmacy benefit managers in real time, thus resulting in more accurate payments
and significant cost savings.

These are just some of the illustrative themes for IC. investments in NLV-II. This is an
emerging area with strong growth drivers, and the Fund Managers expect the opportunity set
to evolve and broaden substantially over NLV-III’s investment cycle.

An intriguing aspect of this sector is the possibility for significantly shortened development
timelines and product iteration cycles. Particularly because they are usually outside the
jurisdiction of the FDA and standard reimbursement paths, companies in the LC. sector can
develop and launch products in months not years, and for single digit millions rather than
several tens of millions of dollars. Product development for these types of applications
leverages “off-the-shelf technologies” in sensors, communications, software and web
design/deployment that were invented and validated in non-healthcare market segments.
These products can be quickly and cheaply tested, iterated and refined in the marketplace with
customers while generating early revenue, which provides a greater degree of flexibility to
evolve the right solution through a series of incremental improvements rather than a single
track, expensive and prolonged development effort.

The Fund’s I.C. investments will be predominantly in private companies in the U.S, at or near
commercialization. Similar to the biopharmaceutical strategy, New Leaf’s objective in its LC.
investments is to build ownership positions that are large enough to allow the Fund Managers
to exert influence on the company, and to actively manage the investments through board
participation. In certain circumstances, NLV may initially take smaller positions with plans to
significantly increase the Fund’s investment as the companies make progress through key early
technical or commercial hurdles. Utilizing this strategy, the Fund Managers expect to build
larger positions around select investments as they are progressively de-risked, and may not
continue to support investments that do not demonstrate appropriate progress.

40 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024051
