In other words, the budget takes note of recent issues that have reflected poorly on the IRS, including the
Service’s enhanced scrutiny of politically conservative groups that were seeking tax-exempt status as
501(c)(4) social welfare organizations, and the disclosure of certain training videos that spoofed several old
television shows and were deemed wasteful. John Koskinen, the new IRS Commissioner, has many
challenges ahead of him, including restoring public confidence in the agency and boosting employee morale.

National Taxpayer Advocate

Nina Olson has been the National Taxpayer Advocate since 2001. She heads up the Taxpayer Advocate
Service (TAS), which was created in 2000, and is an independent organization within the IRS. Ms. Olson
and the TAS are the taxpayer's “voice at the IRS.” The TAS is designed to help taxpayers navigate issues
with the IRS when the usual channels have failed; in addition, Ms. Olson regularly focuses on larger issues
within the IRS and the tax system itself, and recommends solutions. Her year-end Annual Reports to
Congress are thorough and thoughtful, and in part, detail wnat she views as the most serious issues facing
taxpayers.

Ms. Olson’s 2013 Annual Report was released on January 9, 2014, and, as always, is interesting reading.
One of the critical issues Ms. Olson focuses on in this report is that the IRS “desperately” needs more
funding to serve taxpayers and increase voluntary compliance. Ms. Olson presents some compelling
statistics to support this statement. In fiscal year 2013, for example:

e The IRS received about 109 million phone calls; only 61% of the callers seeking a customer service
representative got through, and those who did had to wait an average of 18 minutes before speaking
with someone.

e The IRS received about 8.4 million letters from taxpayers responding to proposed adjustments to their
tax accounts; it was unable to respond to 53% of this correspondence within its target timeframes.

e The IRS continues to reduce (and sometimes eliminate) services at its nearly 400 walk-in sites; the
Service will only answer “basic” tax law questions during this current filing season (January through
April), and will not answer any of those questions beyond April.

Ms. Olson also notes that since fiscal year 2010, the IRS workforce has declined about 8%, and that its
training budget has been “slashed” from about $172 million to about $22 million, a “staggering” 87%
reduction. “Thus,” she says, “the IRS not only has fewer employees than four years ago, but those who
remain are less equipped to perform their jobs.”

Ms. Olson calls the recent IRS budget cuts “shortsighted and counterproductive’” for several reasons: 1) our
system relies on voluntary compliance, and the harder it is for taxpayers to get answers, the less likely they
are to comply; 2) the IRS is a money-maker: in fiscal year 2013, it collected roughly 90% of federal revenue
— or about $2.86 trillion on an appropriated budget of about $11.2 billion (an average return on investment of
255:1); of those revenues collected, some 98% were paid timely and voluntarily, with only 2% coming from
enforcement actions. “In fiscal terms, to be blunt, the mission of the IRS trumps the missions of all other
federal agencies.”

At his confirmation hearing last December, IRS Commissioner John Koskinen voiced similar sentiments:
| don’t know any organization in my 20 years of experience in the private sector that has said “I think I'll
take my revenue operation and starve it for funds to see how it does.” The IRS will have 11,000 fewer
people working during this upcoming filing season while processing the largest number of returns in its

history. | don’t care how efficient you become, that is not a recipe for success or improved compliance
and taxpayer service.

Tax Topics 01/29/14 2

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019441
