IN RE TERRORIST ATTACKS ON SEPTEMBER 11, 2001

773

Cite as 349 F.Supp.2d 765 (S.D.N.Y. 2005)

Clause, a distinction is made between spe-
cific and general jurisdiction, such that
“specific jurisdiction” exists when the fo-
rum exercises jurisdiction over the defen-
dant in a suit arising out of the defendant’s
contacts with that forum, while “general
jurisdiction” is based on the defendant’s
general business contacts with the forum;
because the defendant’s contacts are not
related to the suit, a considerably higher
level of contacts is generally required for
general jurisdiction. U.S.C.A. Const.
Amends. 5, 14.

See publication Words and Phras-
es for other judicial constructions
and definitions.

53. Constitutional Law ¢=305(5)

In determining whether the exercise
of personal jurisdiction is reasonable under
the Due Process Clause, a court is to
consider: (1) the burden that the exercise
of jurisdiction will impose on the defen-
dant; (2) the interests in the forum state
in adjudicating the case; (3) the plaintiffs
interest in obtaining convenient and effec-
tive relief; (4) the interstate judicial sys-
tem’s interest in obtaining the most effi-
cient resolution of the controversy; and (5)
the shared interest of the states in further-
ing substantive social policies. U.S.C.A.
Const.Amends. 5, 14.

54. Federal Courts <-86

In general, great care and reserve
should be exercised when extending no-
tions of personal jurisdiction into the inter-
national field.

55. Federal Civil Procedure €-1267.1

In evaluating jurisdictional motions,
district courts enjoy broad discretion in
deciding whether to order discovery.

56. Federal Civil Procedure €-1269.1
Courts are not obligated to subject a
foreign defendant to discovery where the
allegations of jurisdictional facts, con-
strued in plaintiffs’ favor, fail to state a

basis for the exercise of jurisdiction or
where discovery would not uncover suffi-
cient facts to sustain jurisdiction.

57. Federal Courts <=94

Allegations that Saudi Royal Family
members owned substantial assets in and
did substantial business in United States,
and used profits therefrom to fund inter-
national terrorist acts, including those
leading to September 11 attacks, and that
Saudi Arabian Prince was ex-officio Chair-
man of Board of Saudi Arabia Airlines,
which did business in United States and
internationally, were insufficient to estab-
lish general personal jurisdiction over
Prince in Antiterrorism Act (ATA) action
by survivors of victims of September 11
attacks. 18 U.S.C.A. § 2331 et seq.

58. Federal Courts <-94

Allegations that Saudi Arabian Prince
aided and abetted terrorism, and that he
donated to charities that he knew to be
supporters of international terrorism, were
insufficient to establish personal jurisdic-
tion under “purposefully directed activi-
ties” theory in Antiterrorism Act (ATA)
action by survivors of victims of Septem-
ber 11, 2001 attacks. 18 U.S.C.A. § 2331
et seq.

59. Federal Courts <=94

Allegations that Saudi Arabian Prince
donated money to charities were insuffi-
cient to establish personal jurisdiction in
Antiterrorism Act (ATA) action by surviv-
ors of victims of September 11, 2001 at-
tacks, absent specific factual allegations
that he knew charities were funding mon-
ey to terrorists. 18 U.S.C.A. § 2331 et
seq.

60. Federal Courts <86

Saudi Arabian Prince’s alleged con-
tacts with United States, during ten-year
period prior to September 11, 2001 at-

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017838
