solution is to devolve commercial banks into their separate deposit and lending

functions, with separate stockholders and only incidental interaction.

It is best for the free market to do this alone. The omnibus fund could be the decisive
innovation. It too is possible today. It would offer clients full competitive return, so
that no supply would be too large. It would match bank deposits in liquidity and
payment services with the low service charges typical of other index funds, while
tailoring risk and return to client needs with essentially costless derivatives. The

intention would be obsolescence of bank accounts, and devolution of banks in result.

Deposit-and-lend banks, inevitably leveraged at 10:1 or more, are the weak link
explaining economic collapses about once a generation since the system was
founded in the Renaissance. Misdeeds and misguesses and world events were only
the proximate cause. Chicanery will be with us forever. Honest bad judgment will be
with us forever. Supply shocks, as when OPEC raised oil prices in 1973, will be with
us forever. Wars will be with us forever. Setbacks for our trading partners will be
with us forever. These bring the high winds. I don’t foresee much payout in trying to

dial down the winds by upgrading human nature. The payout is in stabler structures.

The big bad wolf huffed and puffed, and the brick house stood. Omnibus funds will
carry no leverage. Accounts themselves will be levered to taste, but for short periods
only. Futures trade in seconds. The fund as a whole cannot become worthless until
each and every security in its portfolio does. High winds and leverage can wipe out
the accounts of risk-takers who chose the long leg, but not of those who opted for
contractual interest and safety. That’s as it should be. Risk-takers may name their

poison. Omnibus means for all, and all-inclusive.

Derivatives are central to the omnibus fund idea. Some see them as dangerous. They
can be. They are powerful. But they have a good track record of performing as

contracted. Cash reserves, called margins, have proved enough to escape default

Chapter 8 Banks, Money and Macroeconomics 2/8/16 25

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011114
