Conversely, I'm afraid that some conservative will read this and say: Look how the
feminist movement has failed us! That's not what happened, either. I identify as
feminist, and I don't believe that to be at odds with being a submissive masochist. Indeed,
I believe that the feminist movement helped my practice of BDSM: it's one of the factors
that gave me the strength and self-assurance required to figure out and discuss my sexual
needs.

Andrew and I did get back together; then we broke up again. Richard and I have had
other nights together. I wish this narrative ended cleanly. I wish I could say that I've
found a fairy-tale lover, that I'm now with a man who both hurts me till I cry and gives
me the relationship I want. (Why stop there? He could be rich and handsome and a great
cook, too!) But this is my story, not a fairy tale. Just as well; that means I still have space
to learn. I believe I've gotten better at communicating clearly. I believe I've gotten better
at sorting out the harsh emotions inspired by BDSM, working with -- and enjoying! --
those feelings in the context of a loving relationship. And I hope I no longer objectify my
sadistic partners to the extent that I objectified Richard. Still, I know I've got a ways to

go.

I see BDSM as a continuum -- similar to the theory that homosexuality is a continuum --
and sometimes I think that everyone's on the continuum to some degree. I don't think
Andrew is as far into the continuum as I am, and not as far as Richard, either. But there
are reasons I was with Andrew for nearly two years, yet never let myself fall completely
into Richard.

A certain kind of devoted relationship is important to me. I felt strongly about Richard,
and he was a good fit for BDSM, but he couldn't give me the relationship I want. I went
back to Andrew, though he was far less into BDSM, because I was able to love him. I
wonder, though: if I ever fall for a completely vanilla man, will I be able to compromise
that far? It seems unlikely. Maybe if that happens I'll have to remember my friend's
words and find a separate person, a non-lover who inflicts pain.

I'd rather not do that, but I can't imagine giving up BDSM. The idea feels equivalent to a
vow of celibacy. As my therapist said, I'm not looking to escape -- especially not now
that I've finally adjusted. It wasn't easy, but I feel that today I am triumphant. And I
believe, I hope, that knowing what I want is the surest path to falling straightforwardly --
happily -- in love.

This can be found on the Internet at:

EDUCATION:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018459
