James PATTERSON

questionable ties to Tunisian oligarchs, corrupt presidents of
former Soviet republics, and Mu’ammar Gadhafi, among other
entanglements, many of which were explored in a Vanity Fair
article headlined THE TROUBLE WITH ANDREW.

“The duke has a record of being loyal to his friends,” a “royal
source” told Vanity Fair's Edward Klein. “Take his feelings for
Sarah Ferguson. If you are a prince and you bring a woman into
the royal life and, for whatever reasons, she’s spit out, you might
have feelings of debt toward her. The duke feels that she’s been
spattered and rejected. His close relationship with the Duchess
of York is problematic, and there have been many problems over
the last 5 to 10 years, all of which stem from the duchess. Some
of the behavior of the duchess is inconsistent with being mar-
ried to, or an ex-wife of, the duke, There’s no question but that
Sarah’s been a financially self-destructive element in the -duke’s
life.”

“The same kind of loyalty manifested itself last December,
when the duke visited Epstein at his home in New York,” said a

spokesperson for Buckingham Palace. “Epstein was a friend of ~
the duke’s for the best part of 20 years. It was the first time in 7
four years that he'd seen Epstein. He now recognizes that the —

meeting in December was unwise.”

“Don’t expect to see a photo of the two of them together,” =

another “royal source” would say.

But one more story about the prince’s dealings with Jeffrey —

Epstein had already emerged.

At a dinner party at Epstein'’s town house, the prince dished”
about the wedding of his nephew Prince William to Kate,

}

Middleton. ‘

|

“He was amused that his dinner companions were SO inter

is

224

ested in every detail,” a g
gossip columnist. “Whe
Queen wear, would his e:

Other guests in attenc
dler, George Stephanopo
Woody Allen.

At around the same t
Post, “I'm not a sexual pr

ence between a murderer

Was it so remarkable that
in Epstein’s company? Ar
fodder for years. Randy A
the circles that Jeffrey E
seen as a vice. Epstein cai
lation took hold on Wall §
were charging ten thousa1
you'd see things that wo
that would make Nero hi

4 guisher. When the urge
_ didn't have to swap wives.

They could simply swa
By the same token, wa:

4 like the prince would har
| insofar as reality is even a
; odd that he thought it was
) taphers strolling through
jolfender—when at the tin
7g, and trading industri

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022121
