211

operations, he could have done the entire operation at Dell. He even could have sent Poitras
documents anonymously over his own TOR software and server. And he could have remained in
his self-described “paradise” in Hawaii with his girl friend.

Yet he chose to move to Booz Allen he also greatly increased the risk of exposure because the
auditing system at Booz Allen could trace back unauthorized copying (though not in real time.)
Presumably he knew, as he later told Greenwald and Poitras, that stealing documents at the Booz
Allen job meant that he would either go to prison or escape from America. He didn’t want to
face prison time, so the job change required an escape plan. In keeping with the latter option,
only about a week after he started work at the Booz Allen-managed facility, he submitted a
request for a medical leave of absence.

We can safely assume that the reason for him to make this risky switch in employment was
because he wanted something beyond the whistle-blowing documents. He wanted now to get
documents that were not available at the Dell job. One such document he took was the top-secret
Congressional Budget Justification Book for Fiscal Year 2013. This “black budget,” as it is
called in Congress, contained the entire Intelligence Community’s priorities for, among other
things, monitoring the activities of potential adversaries and terrorist organizations. It specified
the money requested by not only the NSA, but the CIA, DIA, National Reconnaissance Office and
other intelligence services. Snowden could not have considered the budget illegitimate, since is
duly approved by both houses of Congress and the President. Nor could he objected to its
secrecy since he himself had sworn oaths to protect all classified documents to which he was privy
for the past eight years. If it was not for purposes of whistle-blowing, presumably he had another
purpose for taking such a document. It certainly held value to other actors. “For our enemies,
having it is like having the playbook of the opposing NFL team,” said CIA Deputy Director
Morell in 2015. “I guarantee you that the SVR, the Russian foreign intelligence service, would
have paid millions of dollars for such a document.” Unlike Ames, Hanssen and Pelton, Snowden
was not after money. He sought documents that enhanced his power and importance.

He made no secret of this part of his motive after he got safely to Hong Kong. As will be
recalled in answer to a question from the journalist Lana Lam about his motive for changing jobs,
he answered that he took the Booz Allen job to get access to secret lists that were not available to
him by working for Dell. These documents certainly increases his value to other nations since
they included Level 3 lists revealing the NSA’s sources in Russia, China and other foreign
countries.

Snowden also wanted more than NSA secrets. He used his new position, and widened access
at Booz Allen, to go after secret documents from the intelligence services of Britain, Australia.
New Zealand and Israel He revealed this operation only after receiving sanctuary in Russia. He
told an interviewer that by moving to his new Booz Allen job as an infrastructure analyst he
gained the ability to pry secrets out of the allied of the NSA. “I had a special level of clearance,
called ‘Priv Ac’,” he said. This “priv ac” status, he further explained, allowed him to request files
from other services cooperating with U.S. intelligence. By way of example, he described one file
from the British GCHQ cipher service that he copied, stole and provided to other parties. It
exposed a legally-authorized British operation to collect electronic data on terrorist matters in
Pakistan by tapping into Cisco routers used by telecom companies in Asia. This GCHQ
operation, as he himself recognized, violated neither British nor American law. He told a BBC
interviewer in regard to that file:’ What's scariest is not what the government is doing that's
unlawful, but what they're doing that is completely lawful.” So his criteria for taking such

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020363
