already smitten. After pizza he walked me across the street to my hotel
where we made plans to meet up again. There was no kiss goodnight or
anything like that. No, he was too polite for that, he wanted to prove
himself different and different he was. Walking through the hotel’s
revolving doors I watched as he walked away and when he was finally
out of sight, I sung my way up to my room. Floating on cloud nine I was
free falling into a deep pit of love.

The next day I attended my class as usual but not able to concentrate
like | normally did, too excited about when I’d be seeing Robbie that
night again. As I walked out of class that afternoon even the teacher
noticed a difference in my performance and asked me if I was feeling
well, “On top of the world actually” I smiled back at the old instructor
and it wasn’t far from the exact truth either. [ hadn’t ever felt the
churning of butterflies in my stomach and the constant thoughts of
anyone else like this before. My girlfriend and I got a tuk-tuk back
together as we usually did after school and I couldn’t shut up about the
night before. She was laughing at my girlishness telling me that anyone
who just met me would think I had never been let out before, but little did
she know that | had more than my fair share in experience with men and
never had I ever come across anyone that could make me feel this way,
and what spun me out even more was that it was such an instant
attraction. Never considering myself a person who believed in the
existence of “Love at first sight”, but a true romantic deep at heart, |
couldn’t help but believe in it now. He is my walking proof of it!

Waiting for me in the hotel lobby was the very person I couldn’t stop
entertaining the thought of all day long, there he was looking ever so fine
standing in front of me now. The whole entire world faded away and all
that was left for the moment was this complete stranger I had only met
last night but somehow captivated the very essence of my very heart.
There was no need for me to try and act cool now. He already knew I was
snagged hook, line and sinker. Smiling all the way up the many stories in
the elevator up to my room he took notice of the posh décor of the hotel.
“You should see where I’m staying, this is a royal palace compared to it”
His first impression of me he automatically thought I was going to be a
spoiled high-maintenance girl that had money coming in from a parents
hefty trust fund. Casually he got to find out through many deep and
meaningful conversations that my life’s grim story wasn’t that pretty at
all. For some reason beyond my knowledge | had the need to tell this
stranger almost everything.

Wanting to be judged and looked down upon for everything about my
life that I knew was wrong and being the first time I had spoken about my
years with Jeffrey to anyone honestly like that ever before, I had felt like
I had deserved punishment. He offered me no judgment, instead only

123

|! Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004256

gave me his warmth and compassion as he wrapped his strong arms
around me, making me feel so meager and smal! but so safe at the same
time. Encouraging me to see the worthiness of myself and leave that life
behind, he adorned me with a kind love that I wasn’t accustomed too.

He took me in and made me feel so at home. It was like I had known
him my whole life. I couldn’t bear to be without him another second
while 1 was away on this dream holiday. When he wasn’t training for
Muay-Thai tournaments and I wasn’t in school, nobody would ever see
us. Too enveloped in each other in my hotel room to care about anything
else. Which is why I asked him to come stay at my hotel with me, seeing
he was never at his own anyways. My girlfriend was soon departing back
to Wisconsin, making my room more than available for him. Enchanted
by his words and tender touch, the way he made love to me was again
like nothing I had experienced before. Even down to after sex as | had
been routinely instructed by Jeffrey to get up for a warm washcloth to
clean his genitals afterwards, he refused it, telling me I was no longer a
slave and that he didn’t want me acting like one. He’d just rather lay
down together afterwards and repeat our sweet nothings with many
adjoining kisses.

On our third night together with nothing but the bed sheets between us,
we had spent all night looking into each other’s eyes sharing such an
undeniable passion for one another. In the deepest caverns of my heart |
knew this man would give me what I had never experienced
before...True love. We were still laying in each others arms when the
orange and pink sunrise began to rise slowly through the peak’s of my
rooms windows, enticing me to come feel the freshness of the morning’s
chill. Only the bed sheets were still wrapped around my body as ] went
the balcony. It was overlooking the city in a valley surrounded by
mountainous tops. My thoughts began to rampage through my head and }
knew this could only be a dream for me. It was getting serious now, too
serious for the life that I led back home. As if he sensed my anxiety
Robbie walked up behind me and wrapped his strong arms around my
waistline, gently kissing my neckline and pausing with his ever so
thoughtful stares and gave me the exact opening that I needed to expel
my thoughts. “Back home, as you already know, ] am going back to
someone else, it’s my job, and as much as I really like you, this guy that I
kind of see is going to expect me to be putting him first, I am so sorry to
say all of this after such a wonderful few days we have spent together, but
you need to know this thing happening between us can’t get anymore
serious than what we have for now. | am so sorry” I looked down to the
floor with nothing else I could say to alter his perception of me now that I
had told him the truth and it never dawned on me that thought he
wouldn’t be out the door before I could even finish my sentence but he

124

Copyright Protected Material

GIUFFRLQ04257

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021206
