192 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

wrote in his book that the ability of Russian intelligence to conceal
this penetration for more than half a century “broke the record for
secret keeping.”

This Russian ability to penetrate U.S. intelligence was not entirely
defeated by America’s implementation of more sophisticated secu-
rity procedures, such as the polygraph examination and extensive
background checks. In 1995, eleven years before Snowden joined it,
the CIA’s inspector general completed a study of the KGB’s use of
false defectors to mislead the U.S. government from the end of the
Cold War in the late 1980s through the mid-1g990s. It found Rus-
sia had dispatched at least half a dozen double agents who provided
misleading information to their CIA case officers.

Because the KGB operation went undetected for nearly a decade,
the disinformation prepared in Moscow had been incorporated into
reports (which had a distinctive blue stripe to signify their impor-
tance) that had been provided to Ronald Reagan, George H. W. Bush,
and Bill Clinton. Even more shocking, in tracing the path of this
disinformation, the inspector general found that the “senior CIA

© officers responsible for these reports had known that some of their ©
sources for this information were controlled by Russian intelli-
gence,” yet they did not inform the president and officials receiving
the blue-striped reports that they included Russian misinformation.
What the CIA director John Deutch called “an inexcusable lapse”
also reflected a form of institutional willful blindness in U.S. intel-
ligence, borne out of a bureaucratic fear of career embarrassment so
well described in Le Carré’s spy novels. Detecting intelligence fail-
ures has, if anything, become even more difficult in the age of the
anonymous Internet.

The Snowden breach demonstrated the NSA had few if any fail-
safe defenses against would-be leakers of communications intelli-
gence. In the new domain of cyber warfare, conventional defensive
rules do not apply. “There are no rivers or hills up here. It’s all flat.
All advantage goes to the attacker,” General Hayden said in an inter-
view in 2015 with the publisher of The Wall Street Journal. His point
was that because there are no defensive positions, the United States
in cyber warfare must rely on an aggressive offensive. If fully suc-
cessful, such an offensive would so deeply penetrate the defenses of

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 192 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019680
