Contractor | 33

later. In fact, he later used the very vulnerability he pointed out to
steal NSA documents at Dell.

In September 2009, still on the Dell payroll, Snowden made a ten-
day trip to India. He later said he was on an official visit “working
at the US embassy.” Hotel records show that he arrived at the Hyatt
Regency in New Delhi on September 2 from Japan and at 3:30 p.m.
on September 3 checked into the Koenig Inn, an annex to Koenig
Solutions, a school that gave crash courses on programming and
computer hacking. According to Rohit Aggarwal, head of the school,
Snowden stayed there until September 10 while taking classes
with a private instructor. It cost $2,000 in tuition and fees, which
Snowden prepaid from Japan with his personal credit card. Even
though Snowden later said he only took courses in “programming,”
the school’s records show that during that week he took intensive
courses in sophisticated hacking techniques. The course was titled
“Ethical Hacking,” but that was a euphemism for teaching the tech-
niques of illicit hacking. The course provided tutoring on hackers’
tools such as SpyEye and Zeus, which are used to circumvent secu-

© rity procedures. It also demonstrated how these hacking tools could ©
be customized by criminals and spies to break into files, plant sur-
veillance programs, impersonate system administrators, assume the
privileges of system administrators in a network, and capture the
passwords of others. On September 11, Snowden, according to hotel
records, left India for Japan. While the stated purpose of the hacking
training was to allow security consultants to detect intruders, it also
prepared Snowden to be, if he chose to be, an intruder in the NSA
system.

One problem with working as a contractor is that the standard
two-year contracts are not necessarily renewed. Nor is there much
possibility for advancement for IT workers. As one contractor
told me, “It is a dead-end job with great pay.” In the fall of 2010,
Snowden’s contract in Japan with Dell was nearing an end.

Dell offered Snowden, and he accepted, a new position in the
United States. He rented a modest suburban house shaded by a
sakura cherry tree in a suburb of Annapolis, Maryland. Lindsay
Mills meanwhile was attending a two-week fitness training course at

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 33 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019521
