that process via the web using Aptify, e-mail, and Skype.
Responsibility:
Identify and implement new opportunities to leverage marketing materials.

Expectations:

e Ideas are researched for feasibility and effectiveness.

e Chosen projects are designed and sent out within the budget and timeline.

Contract Solution:

I would utilize e-mail and Skype to communicate any new ideas and opportunities to leverage marketing
materials. I have recently proposed creating a one-page calendar of our program deadlines to distribute
to our recent seminar alumni in a fall mailing. This way students will have an easy way to remember all
of our deadlines for our programs and may potentially boost our number of applicants.

Role #3: Web-based Marketing Coordinator
Responsibility:
Contribute to online advertising efforts and track results.

Expectations:

° Online efforts are increasingly cost effective.

e Marketing Director is informed of web-based marketing results as requested.

Contract Solution:

I am familiar with our online advertising efforts and can continue to help with this process from a
distance. I will be able to access Facebook Ads, Google Ads, Blog Ads and aid Keri in gathering and
entering data. I have experience working with our Facebook and Google Ads and have created images
for Blog Ads in the past. Launching new Ads will be easily managed abroad.

Responsibility:

Compile collection of updated, appropriate web photos.

Expectations:
e Attractive, updated photos will be available for program and marketing uses.

Contract Solution:

As stated above with the stock photo inventory, I am still able to complete this task remotely by
conducting image searches on web databases such as iStockphoto.com. The Seminar Photo Contest will
also be used as a tool to aid in this compilation of images while I am abroad.

In order to more effectively track the cost of production of our print materials, I think [company name]
would find value in transitioning to a contract basis for this position. I have really enjoyed working at
[company name] thus far and would like to continue working for this organization from a remote
location. Thank you for your consideration of this proposal.

Explanation of Software and Programs Mentioned:

*ConceptShare— www.conceptshare.com, ConceptShare allows you to set up secure online workspaces
for sharing designs, documents, and video and invite others to review, comment, and give contextual
feedback anytime and anywhere without a meeting. [Company name] has used this site for a few months
to test its usability and has also been tested on multiple computers in Argentina (thanks to my sister

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014015
