Freedom House

¢ Chinese censors sent out guidelines listing sub-
jects that should not be covered or not covered
in a negative way during parliamentary sessions
in 2016. Included on the list were the wealth
of parliamentary delegates, military budgets,
compliance with international human rights

conventions, air pollution, church demolitions,
and jokes about parliamentarians’ proposals.’®

¢ Censorship officials quashed coverage of the
“Panama Papers,” the trove of documents leaked
in 2016 that listed the offshore holdings of the
global elite, including the relatives of top Chi-
nese officials.”

e China added Time and the Economist to the list
of blocked media websites in 2016, apparently
in retaliation for articles that were critical of Xi
Jinping’s accumulation of power.”

¢ In February 2016 visits to China Central Tele-
vision (CCTV), the Xinhua news agency, and
the People’s Daily newspaper—the flagships of
the party and state media—Xi admonished the
assembled journalists to give absolute support
to the party leadership and later declared that
all media should “have the party as their family
name.”

While critical voices can still be found on the inter-
net, the authorities have been highly successful in
suppressing material that might lead to any broad
form of online protest or collective action. In addition
to intrusive laws and regulations, the regime deploys
armies of paid and volunteer commentators to flood
social media with progovernment remarks, influence
online discussions, report or attack those who make
antigovernment comments, or sow confusion about
particular incidents that might reflect poorly on the
leadership.?°

The overall goal of this strategy is to weaken the
internet's potential as a mobilizing force for critics or
reformers. Indeed, after years of intense pressure, the
medium is drawing closer to Xi Jinping’s ideal of an
internet that is “clear and bright.

Global reach
Both Russia and China have launched ambitious and
expensive projects to expand the reach of propaganda

and censorship beyond their borders. Russias project is
better known due to RT, a global television network that
is available to foreign audiences in a number of lan-

guages and through many cable packages. Russia has
also launched Sputnik, an international news service,
in multiple languages. These outlets tend to be more
effective than China’ at imitating the production styles
and intentionally contentious formats now employed
by many major outlets in democratic countries.

The degree to which RT and other arms of the Russian
global media apparatus actually influence the debate
about Russia is unclear. RT makes grandiose claims
of high viewership, but some analysts believe that its
audience in the United States and elsewhere is much
lower than asserted, and that its sizeable audience on
YouTube may be inflated by enticing video clips with
little political relevance.”

When it was launched in 2005, RT's programming
stressed the achievements of Russia and the strong
leadership of Vladimir Putin. Subsequently, the focus
changed to negative messages about the West,
especially the United States. Programs have chroni-
cled American poverty, inequality, political hypocrisy,
racial injustice, and other real or perceived flaws. The
network often promotes conspiracy theories about
everything from the destruction of New York's World
Trade Center in 2001 to America’s alleged role as pup-
pet master behind the Ukrainian protest movement of
2013-14.

Superficially, China's overseas propaganda efforts
seem less aggressive. While Beijing has greatly ex-
panded the capacity of CCTV's international broad-
casts and opened media offices around the globe,
the news content is less polemical and therefore less
interesting than that of RT.

But the CCP’s ultimate objectives may actually be far
more ambitious. Rather than engaging, like Russia, in
what amount to guerrilla-style attacks on mainstream
news and information abroad, the Chinese regime is
using its superior economic muscle to steadily gain
control over how China is depicted in news coverage
and popular culture in the rest of the world, and to
establish something of a consensus on the idea of a
“sovereign internet.”

Its various tactics include state pressure on foreign
correspondents tasked with informing the world
about developments in China: Those who are too criti-
cal or too aggressive in conducting investigations into
sensitive matters may find their visas revoked, their
outlet’s website blocked, and their employers placed
in asort of political purgatory.’

www.freedomhouse.org

19

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019253
