https://Awww.gsa.gov/portal/forms/download/116390 - for government clearance) working a
designated contract in a classified facility, being designated a disturbance/dissident/threat to

operations, makes one, in turn, a threat to national security - with all the surveillance/targeting that
enables. In essence | was made an enemy of the State and was tracked, my family and friends
turned, my opportunities seized to include the opportunity to rear family as demonstrated especially
in the 2007 sabotage of my third trimester pregnancy and then the targeting and eventual capture of
children | used to babysit - in 2011, they were predominantly tweens - to be used for sexual
blackmail and other forms of leverage. The reason for the use of children in this barbaric way was to
expend ops that were already in effect and had been used to control many of the politicians that
have been allowed to rise to the top (see info on the Franklin Scandal for example), and similarly
according to the laws of compromise, the following which has been recently developing into highly
coordinated murder ops:

(| write) The progress that was made from the absorbing of my (small) network (and this through
sources and methods - money and other pleasureful compensations given to those willing to
participate in and/or coordinate violence against me and my loved ones to include children leading
only to now their enabled targeting and the absorbing of whatever may be their networks - well, you
see below (and this only the very tip of the iceberg) how many people they've been able to engulf
and what advances have been made by the quite elaborate criminal class employing these tactics;
and one also begins to better understand the events surrounding Justice Scalia's passing and what's
to come for the 35 guests in Scalia's private party. As for Scalia's passing, it was decidedly
suspicious as noted by William Ritchie: (The Washington Post prints) “As a former homicide
commander, | am stunned that no autopsy was ordered for Justice Scalia,” William O. Ritchie, former
head of criminal investigations for D.C. police, wrote in a post on Facebook on Sunday... Ritchie also
raised questions about the marshals’ actions: “How can the Marshal say, without a thorough post
mortem, that he was not injected with an illegal substance that would simulate a heart attack... Did
the US Marshal check for petechial hemorrhage in his eyes or under his lips that would have
suggested suffocation? Did the US Marshal smell his breath for any unusual odor that might suggest
poisoning? My gut tells me there is something fishy going on in Texas.”

As for SAIC, the following also pertains:

(| write) If you first see SAIC as what's called a systems integrator (author Tim Shorrock's phrase),
and also the formerly married Bud and Sue Horton and their two grown sons Matthew Horton and
Ben Lanier as aids of an implementation, you can better see the bigger picture:

(1) Sue Horton left IBM in early 2007-ish for an executive position at Tetra Tech which soon entered
into joint venture with SAIC (Sue's employer prior to IBM, btw) on an enormous (billion dollar) 2011
Hillary Clinton State Department award (http://Awww.prnewswire.com/.../saic-tetra-tech-joint-venture-
a...);

(2) that Bud Horton left IBM in early 2009-ish for an executive position at Accenture which soon
thereafter entered into joint venture with SAIC spin-off Leidos, and Cerner, on an enormous (billion
dollar) 2015 DoD award (http://www.healthcareitnews.com/.../dod-names-ehr-contract-wi...);

(3) that the Sue Horton contract was used to grow and fortify the Afghan heroin trade (as well as
corrupt law enforcement) although the stated intention was of course the opposite... ([SAIC and
Tetra Tech's] joint venture, Integrated Justice Systems International, LLC (IJSI), has been awarded a
contract to provide worldwide civilian police and criminal justice assistance to the U.S. Department of
State's Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs (INL)... [specifically} to
provide INL with program management, criminal justice, and life and mission support to countries
emerging from conflict or otherwise facing instability challenges. Under this new contract, IJS! will

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015018
