2]

one form or another since antiquity. Moreover, the now-fallen
dictators promoted a venal system of corruption built on personal
access to their own ruling circles. And Mubarak, rather than move
society forward by dispensing with a pseudomonarchical state, sought
to move it backward by installing his son in power. Mubarak and Ben
Ali were dull men, enabled by goons in the security services. The real
story in the Middle East these past few months, beyond the toppling
of these decrepit regimes, is the possible emergence of authentic
constitutional monarchies in places like Morocco and Oman. Both of
these countries, which lie at the two geographical extremities of the
Arab world, have not been immune to demonstrations. But the
protesters in both cases have explicitly called for reform and
democracy within the royal system and have supported the leaders
themselves. King Mohammed and Sultan Qaboos have moved
vigorously to get out in front of popular demands by reforming their
systems instead of merely firing their cabinets. Indeed, over the years,
they have championed women’s rights, the environment, the large-
scale building of schools and other progressive causes. Qaboos, in
particular, is sort of a Renaissance man who plays the lute and loves
Western classical music, and who—at least until the celebrations in
2010 marking forty years of his rule—eschewed a personality cult.
The characteristics, then, of the benign dictator are evident, at times
hewing to propositions set forth by the likes of Berlin: freedom may
come as much from stability as from democracy; leaders must adhere
to the will of the people, they need not in all cases be chosen by
them. Yet in the Middle East these dictators remain the exception to
the rule, and this is why quasi monarchies of the iron-fisted Assad or
the crazed and tyrannical Qaddafi are now under assault. THE
PLACE where benevolent autocracy has struck deep and has
systematic roots is Asia. Any discussion of whether and how
democracy can be successfully implemented might, because of the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_032197
