wow on nm B® WwW NY

ne ee
worn nuda WH RHO

249

flew down to Palm Beach during that relevant period
of time.

So [ have a timeframe not that was
provided by your client but that was provided by the
externalities of the case. And that timeframe
coupled with the manifests clearly exonerate me
without any doubt.

Q. Ll want to make sure that I understood what
you just said. I never flew down to Palm Beach
during the relevant timeframe?

A. Inever flew down and stayed at Jeffrey's
house in Palm Beach during that relevant period of
time.

Q. Okay. Se you want to withdraw the
statement that you never flew down to Palm Beach --

MR. SCOTT: Objection.
BY MR. SCAROLA:
Q. -- during that relevant period of time --
A. Let me be --
MR. SCOTT: Objection.
BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. -- and what you want to say is, I never
flew down to Palm Beach and stayed at Jeffrey
Epstein's house during that timeframe period,
correct?

wow On Dm BW NY

NNN NNN BPP PPP PP pe BH
OP WHE OW OMNKHU PWN PO

251

Q. Which of the manifests are you referring
to when you claim what you have claimed about the
manifests, Exhibit Number 6 or Exhibit Number 7?

A. [can only tell you that I have reviewed
the manifests and they show, to me, that I was never
on Jeffrey Epstein's airplane during the relevant
period of time. That's all I can tell you now.

I'm not in a position where I look at all
these documents now. If you point me to any
particular trip that shows that I was on Jeffrey
Epstein's plane, | would be happy to respond to
that.

Q. There are two separate collections of
documents purporting to be flight manifests for
Jeffrey Epstein's plane. When you made the public
statements that you made regarding the flight logs
or manifests exonerating you, were you referring to
Exhibit Number 6 or Exhibit Number 7?

A. Ihave no recollection as to which
particular exhibits, which are formed for purposes
of the legal case, | had reviewed. I know I had
reviewed the manifests. Not only had | reviewed the
manifests, but others reviewed the manifests and
have conclusively told me that their review of the
manifests shows that I was right.

250 |

MR. SCOTT: Objection, argumentative --

A. Let me be --

MR. SCOTT: -- mischaracterization.

A. Let me be clear. A, [never flew down on
Jeffrey Epstein's plane during the relevant period
of time.

BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. Flew down to where?

A. To Palm Beach or anywhere else. I was
never on Jeffrey Epstein's plane, according to the
flight manifests and according to my own records,
during the relevant period of time.

I have independent records of my travel
which demonstrate that I was not in Jeffrey
Epstein's house during the relevant period of time.
And -- but the -- talking about the manifests, the
manifests conclusively prove that ] was never on the
airplane during the relevant period of time.

So I don't know how you can claim that the
manifests show that I was with Virginia Roberts
during the relevant period of time. They do not do
that. And if you would testify under oath to that,
I think you could be subject to pretty -- pretty
scathing cross examination. So your statement is
categorically false, sir.

wou Hn ue wWwdnP

NN MN NN Be PP PP Be Pe
UP wWwN FP Owe OAKHAM WN PO

Q. Who else -

MR. SCOTT: Avoid any attorney-client
communications either with Ms. -- you know,
with your current lawyers, please.

THE WITNESS: Okay.

BY MR. SCAROLA:
Q. Who told you that they had reviewed the
manifests and they confirmed your position?

MR. SCOTT: Objection, work product.

MR. SCAROLA: Well, you know, Mr. Scott,
he can't have it both ways. He can't insert
into the record the gratuitous statements that
he inserts into the record regarding others
having corroborated his inaccurate testimony,
and then refuse to tell us who those others
are. It constitutes a waiver of whatever
privilege might exist.

MR. SCOTT: He can -- he can tell who they
are. I'm just saying he can't go into
communications with them.

MR. SCAROLA: Well, he's already said what
the communication was. The communication was
these manifests prove your position.

MR. SCOTT: And he's answered that because
based on his review of them, Mr. Scarola.

19 (Pages 249 to 252)

www.phippsreporting.com
(888) 811-3408

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010801
