In the absence of long-term risk and performance
data, the role of ESG is unclear for many sovereigns
Environmental, social and governance (ESG) investing
looks to incorporate ethics and sustainability into

the investment process. Sovereigns are well placed

to implement ESG strategies (or component sub-
strategies) due to their scale, reach, size and long-
term orientation. In addition, many investment and
liability sovereigns have a clear basis to consider
sustainability factors in delivering their objectives,
given their own mandates and through their growing
internal management capability.

However, contrary to early expectations, uptake
of ESG practices appears to be less broad than
initially anticipated. On the one hand, established
sovereigns across Europe, Canada and Australia have
been pivotal to the evolution of ESG investing among
institutional investors. Many of these sovereigns were
crucial in the development of sovereign investment
strategies over past decades, and continue to have
high levels of influence over sovereign models globally
relative to their size. Against this, funds in the US
and emerging markets have been reluctant to commit
to ESG (figure 22) in the absence of objective data
on the investment risk/return trade-offs implicit in
these strategies.

While uptake of ESG has not increased in line
with historical expectations, there is a clear appetite
for perspectives and analysis from adopters, asset
managers and academics. In fact, among institutional
investors globally ESG is cited as the most important
area for thought leadership (NMG's Global Asset
Management Study 2017), highlighting investor
demand for greater understanding.

32

Qualified support for ‘environmental’ and ‘social’
screens given reputational risks of non-adoption,
however further commitment depends on emerging
evidence of investment implications
For sovereigns looking to adopt ESG investing, the
most common step is to introduce negative screens
on managers and securities which fall below ethical
standards (figure 23). This process lends itself to
environmental and social factors, given growing
levels of disclosure of carbon footprint and employee
diversity within public markets. Indeed, environmental
factors are among the ESG issues of greatest
importance to sovereigns shown in figure 24.

Certain sovereigns noted that negative
environmental and social screens can be simply
inserted into the investment process as an extra step
within security selection, with minimal additional
costs of management and expertise. Respondents
also stated that the measurement of the investment
impact of negative screens was simple, as the social
investment strategy was most often constructed
from a fully inclusive benchmark.

Despite some non-users citing analysis showing
the negative effect of ESG screening strategies
on short-term returns, there was a sense among
interviewees that greater levels of disclosure
increased reputational risk of non-adoption relative
to high-profile ESG adopters.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026712
