Top-Tier Media Stocks
Walt Disney

The Walt Disney Co. (DIS) is one of the strongest brands in the world. It also possesses multiple revenue
streams and pricing power. Q1 EPS jumped 23% year over year based on record revenue. When a company
delivers record revenue, that trend doesn’t make a sudden U-turn. If there's going to be a turnaround for the
worse, it will take time to play out, giving you time to exit your position. (For related reading, see: This

Company Is No Mickey Mouse Operation.)

CBS

CBS Corp.'s (CBS) Q4 revenue increased 3% and diluted EPS improved 8%. CBS also announced a $1 billion
share buyback in the first quarter. This will significantly reduce the share count, which should improve
earings. CBS will once again have Thursday Night Football, and it will be the home of Super Bowl 50. It’s
also home to regular-season NFL games, March Madness and The Masters. However, its reach goes well
beyond sports.

Comcast

FY2014 revenue at Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) increased 6.4%. Operating cash flow and EPS improved 6.9%
and 25%, respectively. Comcast also increased its dividend 11% and announced that $4.25 billion of its $10
billion share buyback program would take place in 2015. (For more, see: This Company is as Unavoidable as it
is Unloved.)

Twenty-First Century Fox

Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc.'s (FOXA) Q2 operating income before depreciation and amortization increased
12%. Fox studios enjoyed 24 Academy Award nominations in 2015, making it the industry leader. Twenty-First
Century Fox also recently created the Europe’s leading pay TV business.

Google

Google Inc. (GOOGL) is known as more of a technology company than a media company, but its YouTube
segment consumes approximately 15% of all broadband traffic in the United States and Canada (only Netflix,
Inc. (NFLX) is higher at 35%). Google also makes this list because of its $62.63 billion in cash, which means it
can enter any business it pleases. If it chooses to expand its media presence, then it would likely steal share
from some of the current industry leaders. (For related reading, see: How Google's Self-Driving Car Will
Change Everything.)

Speculative Media Stocks
Charter Communications

Q4 revenue jumped 9.9% at Charter Communications, Inc. (CHTR) thanks to higher customer penetration on
Internet, video, and commercial businesses. Another positive is that Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK.A) recently
increased its position in CHTR by adding 1.2 million shares. CHTR now represents 1.35% of the fund’s
portfolio. The reason CHTR is on the speculative list is a lack of profitability.

Discovery Communications

Differentiation is the key here thanks to Discovery Communications, Inc.'s (DISCA) success with docudramas.
In FY2014, revenue increased 13%, adjusted earnings per diluted share improved 13%, free cash flow increased
2%, and $1.4 billion worth of stock was repurchased. The biggest risks here are a challenging U.S. market and
currency headwinds. It should also be pointed out that there is an 11% short position on the stock. (For related

reading, see: A Breakdown of Stock Buybacks.)

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024253
