Improvements Description and Analysis 46

Overall, the quality, condition, and functional utility of the improvements are above average for their
age and location. The subject benefits from good access and visibility from both the waterfront and
the main thoroughfare of Smith Bay Road. In addition, the overall quality and condition of the subject
is above average for this market. Due to the small site size and large number of commercial tenants,
there is insufficient parking at the subject based on market standards.

Improvement Analysis — Marina

The marina currently contains 105 wet slips, although that number can vary somewhat depending on
the size (width) of the occupying vessels. Each designated slip is supplied with its own electrical outlet
and fresh water supply, as well as access to a refueling line. The individual slip sizes can vary based on
boater needs, but they can accommodate a variety of vessels, typically within the range from 30 to 79
linear feet for the standard slips, and 79 to 110 linear feet for the T-head slips. In addition, some slips
have an attached finger for easier access, which is considered more desirable.

Generally the jetties and slips are constructed of PVC pilings bored and filled with concrete and steel;
and wood plank surfacing. Many of the smaller slips are horizontally separated by wooden columns
used to tie up vessels rather than there being jetties between each slip.

The physical docks were constructed over several years, from 1991-1995, and are considered to be in
average condition. Ongoing renovations have been made to the docks throughout the years, with
upcoming expenditures included a complete resurfacing as well as re-facing the wooden skirts on
most concrete pilings. The docks consist of mostly concrete pilings and cross braces with some wood,
along with wooden skirts and wood decking surface. There have been no major renovations to slip
structure within the past five years.

The subject marina benefits greatly from its location in Vessup Bay, which is well protected and
positioned in a convenient area at the heart of Red Hook. In addition, this bay has a direct route to St.
John and the British Virgin Islands and has a depth that will accommodate vessels with a maximum
draft of 10 feet and a maximum vessel length of 110 feet. The subject is one of the closest commercial
marinas to both St. John and the BVI, and this convenient location is a major demand generator for
commercial charters as well as vessels based in St. John and the BVI which are often in need of a
fueling station. The quality and condition of the docks is considered to be average; however, the
services and amenities offered at this marina are considered to be above average.

IGY American Yacht Harbor Marina

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018857
