1.7.4.5 — Find possible names used to refer to individuals.

The common name of an individual sometimes significantly differs from the complete, formal name
present in Encyclopedia Britannica and Wikipedia. This encyclopedia full name can contain details such
as titles, initials and military or nobility standings, which are not commonly used when referring to
individual in most publications. Even in simpler cases, when the full name contains only first, middle and
last names, there exists no systematic convention on which names to use when talking about an
individual. Henry David Thoreau is most commonly referred to by his full name, not “Henry Thoreau” nor
“David Thoreau”, whereas Oliver Joseph Lodge is mentioned by his first and last name “Oliver Lodge”,
not his full name “Oliver Joseph Lodge’.

Given a full name with complex structure potentially containing details such as titles, initials, nobility rights
and ranks, in addition to multiple first and last names, we must extract a list of simple names, using three
words at most, which can potentially be used to refer to this individual. This set of names is created by
generating combinations of names found in the raw name. Furthermore, whenever they appear we
systematically exclude common words such as titles or ranks from these names. The query name sets of
several individuals are displayed in Table $10.

5) For every record, using the set of raw names, create a set of query names. Query names
are (2,3) grams which will be used in order to measure the fame of the individual. The following
procedure is iterated on every raw name variant associated with the record. Steps for which the
record type is not specified are carried out for both.

a. For Encyclopedia Britannica records, truncate the raw name at the second comma,
reorder so that the part of name preceding the first comma follows that succeeding the
comma.

For Wikipedia records, replace the underscores with whitespaces.

Truncate the name string at the first (if any) parenthesis or comma.

d. Truncate the name string at the beginning of the words ‘in’, ’In’, the’, The’, ‘of and ‘Of, if
these are present.

e. Create the last name set. Iterating from last to first in the words of the name, add the first
name with the following properties:

i. Begin with a capitalized letter.

ii, Longer than 1 character.

iff. Not ending in a period.

iv. If the words preceding this last name are identified as a prefix (‘von', ‘de’, 'van',

‘der’, 'de' , ‘d”, ‘al-', ‘la’, ‘da’, 'the', ‘le’, ‘du’, 'bin', 'y’, ‘ion’ and their capitalized
versions ), the last name is a 2gram containing both the prefix.

f, If the last name contains a capitalized character besides the first one, add a variant of
this word where the only capital letter is the first to the set of last names.

g. Create the set of first names. Iterating on the raw name elements which are not part of
the last name set, candidate first names are words with the following properties :

i. Begin with a capital letter.

ii. Longer than 1 character.

iii. Not ending in a period.

iv. Not a title. Archduke’, ‘Saint’, 'Emperor', 'Empress', 'Mademoiselle’, 'Mother',

‘Brother’, 'Sister', ‘Father’, 'Mr', 'Mrs', 'Marshall', ‘Justice’, 'Cardinal', 'Archbishop',
‘Senator’, ‘President’, ‘Colonel’, ‘General’, ‘Admiral’, ‘Sir’, 'Lady', ‘Prince’,
‘Princess', 'King', ‘Queen’, ‘de’, ‘Baron’, 'Baroness', 'Grand', 'Duchess', 'Duke’,
‘Lord’, ‘Count’, ‘Countess’, 'Dr')

oo

22

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017030
