THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA

PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)

BAZAAR

http://www. harpersbazaar.co.uk/fashion/blog/the-editors/house-of-noble-man

House of Noble Man
Oct 18, 2010 04:06:00 PM by Sarah Bailey

| love the extraordinary and intriguing exhibitions which one encounters around the edges of Frieze. 2009's The
Age of the Marvellous at One Marylebone (curated by AVA) was one such discovery - dark and theatrical - which
stayed with me all year...

This year's House of Noble Man (a collaboration between the Saatchi Gallery and Channel 4's New Sensations), is
another spectacular show of a very different flavour mounted in No. 2 Cornwall Terrace, a gleaming showcase of
super-prime real-estate. (| attended on the opening night and was treated to a tour of two other oligarch-ready
show mansions at No.6 and 11 Cornwall Terrace, by a dashing Knight Frank estate agent by the name of Darren
Daggers... Quite surreal, but, of course, an incredibly resonant statement about the current art market).

Back at No. 2 Cornwall Terrace, House of Noble Man curated by Victoria Golembiovskaya and artist-of-the-
moment Wolfe Von Lenkiewicz mixes work from the giants of modern art - Cezanne and Picasso - with some
dazzling and provocative contemporary pieces plus, of course, Channel 4's New Sensations discoveries.

| loved the filigree Cement Truck sculpture by Wim Delvoye (the Belgian conceptual artist probably best-known
for his work in the 90s involving the tattooing of live pigs), Rachel Whiteread's dolls house chess set and New
Sensation Elizabeth Jordan's dream-like kinetic installation, which she is showing in an upper bedroom. Of course,
there's nothing like a Frieze party to lure out London's finest exhibitions and | was very pleased to meet showgoer
Philip Levine, who uses his bald pate (bejeweled on this occasion as though he is wearing a Swarovski swim cap)
as his canvas. His next show, he informs me, is being sponsored by Gilette...

House of Noble Man is on until
Wednesday October 20, so do try and
see it. Entry is free, but you have to
book an appointment.

2 Cornwall Terrace, London, United
Kingdom, NW1, cornwallterrace.co.uk
(Image: ‘House of Noble Man‘, curated
by Victoria Golembiovskaya and Wolfe
Von Lenkiewicz.)

18

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028298
