be probed with so many more questions and having to make Jeffrey
sound ideal and hot for the taste of a young girl and knew | would be
point blank lying, so I told her some of the truth which was that he was
really rich and paid good money for a massage and useful to have around
as a contact. I told her he’d give her two hundred dollars for a two-hour
massage with me leading the way and warning her he was known to be
frisky during the session. Unexpectedly she said she could use the money
and then came the part that I hated the most, but had to do so they
wouldn’t be as shocked as I was the first time I had met him. “He does
like us to be nude though and sometimes asks for more than just the
massage itself”. All I could do was wait for a response after a shocking
sentence like that, and depending on the girl, most were sadly taken back
by the money. Her carefree attitude seemed to disillusion for a moment
when she gave it some thought and asked me “He’s not like, fat and ugly,
is he”? ““ No...no...not at all” I replied, “He’s got more of a Richard
Gere appeal to him”. Trying to make him sound a little more measurable
than just a rich old man that likes to be with girls younger than half his
age. “Well then, what time shall we meet tonight’? She asked next.
Great, I thought, Jeffrey would be most pleased with my find. “Knock on
my room quietly, you’re going to be a surprise. Be there at around half
past seven tonight and I will introduce you to Jeffrey”. She threw the butt
of the second jay we shared in the bushes and we strolled into a
homemade fudge boutique to get some relief for the munchies we now
had.

When I got back to the hotel at around a quarter to six o’clock pm as
requested I’d be, nobody was back yet, so I took the time to set up the
oils and bath in my room for his massage tonight. I thought I would plan
it so the girl would be cleaning off, as Jeffrey liked before he had sexual
contact with a new girl and he could walk in and be surprised to find a
strange beautiful girl in my room who wanted to massage him. Jeffrey
walked through the door not long after 1 was done prepping for the night
ahead, looking like he had a rough day at the office, which was very rare
for him. He sat down on the bed and I asked him how his day was. He
didn’t want to talk much about it, saying it was boring and long, rather
asking what I got up to for the day. Being coy about having a jay and his
unexpected surprise to come, I told him it was a great day of shopping
and sight seeing and I even brought him back some local made fudge
from the shop that had fulfilled my chocolate cravings only hours ago.

Telling him of the places 1 ventured into I mentioned to him “We’d
have to hit the fisherman’s wharf tomorrow. | saw some locals walking
around with breadbaskets filled with creamy clam chowder and it smelled
absolutely scrumptious.” He said if the weather were nice we'd check it
out tomorrow before we left for L.A. He wanted to take off his jeans and

51

U Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004 184

collared shirt and put on his normal attire of sweatpants and a sweatshirt.
Ushering him out the door for dinner when he was more relaxed I was
lucky when he said he was starving and quickly got dressed. We just
found a quite spot to eat that was next to the wharf and got back to the
hotel just in time for our surprise guest. He wanted to go have a shower
and settle down for a massage, so I told him Id join him in a minute, I
just had to make a phone call real quick which he thought was odd and
asked me if everything was alright, I reinstated that I’d just be a minute,
trying not to let on about anything. The knock came quietly on my
room’s door just on time, as we had planned and | told her my idea to
surprise him. I let her into the bathroom where she orchestrated my plan
perfectly. Jeffrey finished his shower without me and when he called out
for me I told him that I needed him to have a look at something in my
room real quick. Not giving in to what it was that he would be looking at,
he came into the room where [ opened my bathroom door to reveal a
beautiful nude girl bathing in a thick amount of soap bubbles in my tub
looking at him with an alluring intrigue. His grin went from ear to ear
when she stood up and introduced herself letting the bubbles run down
her glistening body at an ever-slow pace. It was a proud moment for
Jeffrey, I had done well in his eyes, and she was not like the other girls [
had brought to him before, degraded from a lifetime of abuse off the
streets. This girl was exactly his pro quo looking sweet and innocent as
the girl next door. My efforts were to show him I knew that my only
responsibility was to keep him happy at all costs. I led her through the
massage on Jeffrey and of course afterwards gratifying his perversion
with his lustful requests to be fondled and watch us become more than
just friends. I didn’t feel too bad at the time with his coercion providing
many financial rewards making his scheme enticing to a young,
impressionable teen not realizing the terrible memories left to come from
all of this. Afterwards he paid her the usual two hundred dollars he gave
to everyone for their time and took down her name and phone number
writing it in his infamous little black book of the contacts he met in every
city but only the ones he really liked made it down in his records.

We went out the next afternoon as I had suggested last night and we ate
our clam chowder breadbaskets over looking the wharf’s bay, watching
the seals playfully barking at each other on the rocks nearby. Shortly after
we were driven to the private airstrip and took off for Los Angeles. On
the plane was an unexpected visitor. Matt Groening the producer of the
“The Simpson’s” T.V show was catching a ride with us. I was so excited,
as I loved watching his show and acted like a star struck fan, asking him
everything from his initial idea for creating the show to where he got his
characters from. He told me it was all based on his own family make up,

52

0 Copyright Protected Material

GIUFIFREOO4 185

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021170
