Thursday, September 12, 2013
Page 3

e “Did you ever have any physical contact with E.W.?”
e ‘What is the actual value that you contend the claim of E. W. against you has?”

The matters addressed in these questions were the central focus of Epstein’s claims
against Edwards. lEpstein’s refusal to answer these and literally every other
substantive question put to him in discovery deprived Edwards of even a basic
understanding of the evidence alleged to support claims against him and substantiated
Edwards’ position that no such evidence ever existed. Epstein’s case was doomed to
fail on the basis of the “sword and shield” doctrine alone. But other grounds were
equally and independently fatal to Epstein’s attempt to use the legal system to scare
Edwards into submission.

All of Edwards’ conduct in the prosecution of valid claims against Epstein was
protected by the absolute bar of the litigation privilege.

And most fundamentally, Epstein’s claims against Edwards were not only unsupported
by but also directly contradicted by all of the record evidence. From the beginning,
Edwards diligently represented three victims of sexual assaults perpetrated by Epstein.
Each and every one of Edwards’s litigation decisions was grounded in proper
litigation judgment about the need to pursue effective discovery against Epstein,
particularly in the face of Epstein’s stonewalling tactics. Edwards’s successful
representation finally forced Epstein to settle and pay appropriate damages. Effective
and proper representation of child victims who have been repeatedly sexually
assaulted cannot form the basis of a separate, “satellite” lawsuit, and therefore
Edwards was entitled to summary judgment on those grounds as well.

Facing these insurmountable obstacles, on the eve of the scheduled hearing on
Edwards’ Motion for Summary Judgment, Epstein dismissed all of his claims against
Edwards.

Put simply, Epstein made allegations that he knew were baseless, that he never
intended to try to support, and that were precluded as.a matter of well-established-law.
His lawsuit was merely a desperate measure by a Serial pedophile to prevent being
held accountable for repeatedly sexually abusing minor females. Epstein’s ulterior
motives in filing and prosecuting his lawsuit are blatantly obvious. Epstein's behavior
is another clear demonstration that he feels he lives above the law and that because of
his wealth he can manipulate the system and pay for lawyers to do his dirty work -
even to the extent of having them assert baseless claims against other members of the
Florida Bar. Epstein’s Complaint against Edwards was nothing short of a far-fetched,
fictional fairy-tale with absolutely no evidence whatsoever to support his preposterous

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029317
