individual or state, city or a company, is seen as unacceptable. It seems that seeing=2 Odistinct images of
successful Arabs and Arab countries disturbs some people. They would rather stick with the distorted images of
Arab stereotypes in their minds.

I need to stress here a very important perception. We are not growing in order to be a model for its highest
building in the world, best airport, and most luxurious hotel, and the largest seaport and man-made islands.
These landmarks and features are unique and famous all over the world. But the Dubai model is beyond that.
Dubai is an Arab city with scarce natural resources but with a clear vision of comprehensive development and
social needs. It is a city that succeeded through its investments in human resources, its unique geographical
location, and its trade expertise. This has enabled us to achieve unmatched growth and to become the focal
connection between the East and West. Dubai has proved as well the possibility of coexistence of different
cultures in an open and tolerant Arab Islamic environment.

Dubai’s model, which is part of the UAE model, lies in the success of the economy’s diversification, and in
sparking the interest of the Arab region and neighboring countries in the information and communication
technology, the e-government and the knowledge economy, and in facilitating access to the people in our region
to global best practices. Our international experiences in various areas are often on display through exhibitions,
conferences and other activities.

Dubai’s model also lies in proving the viability of investing in the region, of investing specifically in the
knowledge economy and in human welfare. It has also raised the citizens’ expectations in the region concerning
levels of good governance and transparency, and the quality of public services and state-of-the-art
infrastructure.

Dubai is about providing the highest international standards in education and health systems. It is a city with
entrepreneurial spirit that entered into international investment areas and bought assets in global ports, airports
and financial markets. Dubai succeeded in building a global financial center and entering into partnerships with
reputed financial institutions, and was able to compete globally in the areas of air and sea transport, and
charitable initiatives that were created to help developing the less fortunate countries.

These are some of Dubai’s model features, which has attracted the attention of the world, and enticed the
interest of the Arab region and its people, and inspired many people and motivated them. Is this the model that
our critics are targeting?

I asked my brothers and myself this question and I did not expect a reply, because we are accustomed in the
UAE to respond by work, not words. We believe in God and we have full faith and confidence in Him and in
our people and businessmen and the many other believers in Dubai.

Abu Dhabi is also witnessing an attack since it succeeded in leading a successful Arab union and launched
initiatives of a strategic and impo rtant nature such as “Masdar City.”. I know that the international media have
covered art initiatives in Abu Dhabi, including building an outpost of the Louvre. But one gets the impression
that even in such coverage of important initiatives, there’s invariably some reference or the other to discredited
stereotypes of the Arab Gulf. Now the focus is on Dubai, and again the stereotypes are being brought up. It
seems that any successful Arab model in economic development invites such negative treatment in the
international media

To be fair, we read recently a few balanced articles reporting on what is the UAE doing regarding the effect of

the global financial crisis on our region.
Al Hayat Newspaper - Shafiq Al Asadi

Your Highness, the media campaign has focused on pointing that Dubai is facing an
economic crisis threatening the foundations of its economic development. What is the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024932
