spontaneously along with an instantaneous knowing-how-it-is-with-you-and-|l-and-
all-of-us that made even vicious killers appear sympathetic. Is this what the
Charismatic New Testament Book Churches mean by redemption through
forgiveness of others, requiring the genuine sincerity of this thought before
qualifying for Communion? Is this Christ’s undemanding gift of grace as in Romans
4: where Paul observed that all of us fall short of the full glory of God unless justified
freely by His grace. Was this the New Testament’s spiritual technological advance
from the Old Testament’s and Koran’s eye-for-an-eye? Did this chemically triggered
transcendent experience differ significantly from the supernatural transformation of
individuals by the Holy Spirit of Christian revivalist teachings? Martin Marty,
University of Chicago’s Professor of Modern Church History, dates the
institutionalization of this personal transformation in the United States to the post-
Civil War period. Did this mean that the mysteriously selfless love of Christian
agape and the altruism of E.O. Wilson’s sociobiology lay waiting in the brain and
could appear spontaneously, by grace, without lawful directive, repetitive recitation
or the discipline of catechism?

As one might have suspected, the urgency of my inner and outer search for a
new spiritual ecology of mind was driven by more personal needs. My spiritual
hunger was made acute a couple of years before our laboratory’s DMT discovery
when as a 30 year old Assistant Professor of Psychiatry and Neuroscience at UCLA
in West Los Angeles, | was living in a small, heavily mortgaged house in Brentwood
with my graduate student wife and two young sons. A testicular lump was an
accidental discovery made while showering. After surgical biopsy and radical lymph
node dissection, the professor of urology gave me a diagnosis of right testicular
choriocarcinoma. All by itself, my testicle had given birth to a mass containing all the
embryological tissues of a fetus, and had thrown in some maternal placental cells

Unlike now, when the group of testicular neoplasms are treated

successfully with a high survival rate (think Lance Armstrong), at that time, follow up
research of this young man’s disease by the Army Medical Corps promised a five-
year survival rate of only 5% to 10%. The news filled me with fear and the ensuing

hopeless resignation detached me from life with a dread broken up only by
93

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013593
