my adrenaline was still pumping from the previous encounter with the
officials of the Philippines who had enough power to condemn me if they
had felt like it. I caught my plane in the knick of time and once I was
settled in my seat my thoughts went back to my dear Robbie and how
much I was missing him. J was just relieved that I was on my way to be
back with him again soon.

Looking out the window I could see the red earth beneath me. As 1
landed for the last time I took notice of the first steps I walked off the
plane and onto a new soil for the first time. 1 had so much to be looking
forward too in my new homeland. In my heart I knew this was all | ever
wanted, this was going to be my haven. There was another surprise in
store for me when two elder strangers walked up to me and asked my
name. “Are you Jenna?” Nodding at their question they gave me their
first names and wrapped their arms around my neck. My new mother-in
law then said, “ We are Robbie’s parents. We wanted to be the first ones
who. welcomed you to Australia and into our family” It was my in-laws
meeting me for the first time. Handing me some balloons and flowers
they even had gifts for their new daughter-in law. While waiting for
Robbie’s plane to arrive we all chatted about many things like the flight
over from Thailand and the scare at the previous airport in the
Philippines. I asked them how they knew whom to look for? My father in
law laughed, saying recognizing me was easy from Robbie’s detailed
description. He told them to look out fora petite, young blonde carrying
an abundance of luggage. Laughing together over a few more brief
conversations of getting to know each other better they seemed relieved
to finally meet me compared how stressed she sounded in the
conversations | overheard Robbie having with her while in Thailand.

Watching the arrivals board I knew Robbie’s plane had landed ages ago
but was just waiting for him to get out of customs. It didn’t bother me
anyhow, I was enjoying get accompanied with his parents for the first
time. Eventually | saw my husband walking down the runway behind the
gates, I just couldn’t wait a second longer. I ducked underneath the gates
and ran all the way up the runway to jump excitedly into his arms. |
wrapped my arms and legs around him holding onto him for dear life. I
just missed him so much I knew I would never let him go, theoretically
speaking that is, and I never have nearly a decade later.

Chapter 24

Over the near decade we spent together, Robbie and I have shared the
common highs and lows that every determined marriage endures. It has

135

taken a lot of hard work and doesn’t come without its flaws but no matter
what it is just perfect for the two of us. He helped me how to remember to
smile again and life has slowly began to sort itself out. They say that time
heals all wounds but what I had experienced in my young years wasn’t
nearly long enough to let all of the hurt go. Seeking help through many
counselors and psychiatrists I was doing everything I could do to deal _
with the scars and all of the pain left behind. Completely off of any
pharmaceuticals, since the last day of our honeymoon, and healing my
heart with love instead of hate our marriage is my foundation and Robbie
is my solid rock. We have to be for one another, putting the bonds of our
union through the wringers and back, as neither of us expected my past
life eventually to come back and haunt me after so long.

Our blissful life came to a sudden halt one day when we were out
visiting my in-laws at their nearby house on just another plain afternoon.
There was a knock on the front door and my father in law got up from
watching TV on the couch to answer it. He rushed back quickly coming
into the dining room, where [ was feeding my nineteen months and five
month old boys at the table, and he blurted out, “Jenna there are three
police officer’s at the door asking for you by the name of Virginia
Roberts!” I asked my mother in law to stay with the babies to find out
what this was all about. I didn’t even think it had anything to do with
Jeffrey at first and wasn’t even worried when I opened the door to offer
them to come inside to talk.

They weren’t actually police officers and two federal agents of
Australia with one F.B.J agent from America. The American agent asked
if I wouldn’t mind actually coming outside so that I may speak with them
in private. “Okay” I said, as well as mentally preparing myself for
something big from the look of it, it’s not over a parking ticket or
anything small that you get three federal agents knocking at your in-laws
front door asking to speak in private. “Can we first ask you if you are in
fact Ms. Virginia Roberts and originally from Palm Beach County in the
United States?” I confirmed my name and previous state of residence
then they even asked, “May we see some identification please?” A
different agent asked the question this time and I told him “‘T will have to
go and grab it, my purse is inside. I'll just be one second.”

Robbie was standing on the other side of the door trying to figure out
what they were doing here talking to me and when I rushed through it to
grab my purse and saw him standing there looking puzzled, | told him |
had no idea what this was about yet, but not too worry everything was
going too be just fine. Taking a deep breath and slowly exhaling
outwards, I opened the door to find out exactly what the agents wanted to
talk about.

136

1 Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL

[3 Copyright Protected Material

CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004268 GIUTTFRE004269

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021212
