f you believe humans outthink computers, be warned; you are in

controversial territory. This would need a hyper-computer and many

scientists speak of these in the same breath as perpetual motion
machines.

I’m not sure it’s an entirely fair analogy. We understand machines,
and the physical laws of our Universe forbid perpetual motion. We
don't understand brains, so we can't reasonably dismiss human hyper-
computing. Humans commonly demonstrate one clear example of
thinking which appears to break the Turing limit, namely finding
solutions to mathematical puzzles. We need an explanation for this.
Let me take you on a whistle-stop tour of all the schemes people have
imagined that might lead to a hyper-computer.

A hyper-computer is a machine that can calculate a function which
a Turing machine can not. For example, when given a number denoting
a problem such as Fermat’s Last Theorem, it can give me in return a
number representing a valid proof. We are not concerned here with
speed. We are talking about fundamental ‘do-ability’ Such machines are
often dubbed ‘super-Turing’.

Epic Fails

Let us first look at some proposals that blatantly fail. My children call
these ‘epic fails, and they are the perpetual motion machines of the
hyper-computing world.

Could we run many Turing machines at the same time, perhaps
even an infinite number? Then we would have a much more powerful
machine that must beat the Turing limit.

The answer is no.

Turing machines are already infinitely powerful and we know from
our chapter on infinity that all countable infinities are the same. Infinity
plus infinity, infinity times infinity, infinity to any power; all are equal.
One single, fast, one-dimensional machine can simulate them all. We get
no greater power with an infinite number of similar machines.

The next technique which might realize a hyper-computer is to
have a machine which simultaneously runs every possible branch in a
program. Each time the machine gets to a point where there is a binary
decision, it can take the ‘yes’ branch, spawn a copy of itself, and run the
‘no’ branch as well. Logically this machine should be able to calculate
anything since it tries every conceivable option. The process is called
non-determinism. This doesn’t mean the computer has free will. It just
means the computer never chooses one option over another. It just

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015965
