1.5 Extraordinary Proof? 5

serve as proofs of CogPrime’s power for advanced AGI. We have used some CogPrime ideas in
the OpenCog framework to do things like natural language understanding and data mining, and
to control virtual dogs in online virtual worlds; and this has been very useful work in multiple
senses. It has taught us more about the CogPrime design; it has produced some useful software
systems; and it constitutes fractional work building toward a full OpenCog based implemen-
tation of CogPrime. However, to date, the things OpenCogPrime has done are all things that
could have been done in different ways without the CogPrime architecture (though perhaps not
as elegantly nor with as much room for interesting expansion).

The bottom line is that building an AGT is a big job. Software companies like Microsoft spend
dozens to hundreds of man-years building software products like word processors and operating
systems, so it should be no surprise that creating a digital intelligence is also a relatively large-
scale software engineering project. As time advances and software tools improve, the number of
man-hours required to develop advanced AGI gradually decreases — but right now, as we write
these words, it’s still a rather big job. In the OpenCogPrime project we are making a serious
attempt to create a CogPrime based AGI using an open-source development methodology,
with the open-source Linux operating system as one of our inspirations. But the open-source
methodology doesn’t work magic either, and it remains a large project, currently at an early
stage. I emphasize this point so that readers lacking software engineering expertise don’t take
the currently fairly limited capabilities of OpenCogPrime as somehow a damning indictment of
the potential of the CogPrime design. The design is one thing, the implementation another —
and the OpenCogPrime implementation currently encompasses perhaps one third to one half
of the key ideas in this book.

So we don’t have extraordinary proof to offer. What we aim to offer instead are clearly-
constructed conceptual and technical arguments as to why we think the CogPrime design has
dramatic AGI potential.

It is also possible to push back a bit on the common intuition that having a design for human-
level AGI is such an “extraordinary claim.” It may be extraordinary relative to contemporary
science and culture, but we have a strong feeling that the AGI problem is not difficult in the
same ways that most people (including most AI researchers) think it is. We suspect that in
hindsight, after human-level AGI has been achieved, people will look back in shock that it took
humanity so long to come up with a workable AGI design. As you'll understand once you’ve
finished Part 1 of the book, we don’t think general intelligence is nearly as “extraordinary”
and mysterious as it’s commonly made out to be. Yes, building a thinking machine is hard —
but humanity has done a lot of other hard things before. It may seem difficult to believe that
human-level general intelligence could be achieved by something as simple as a collection of
algorithms linked together in an appropriate way and used to control an agent. But we suggest
that, once the first powerful AGI systems are produced, it will become apparent that engineering
human-level minds is not so profoundly different from engineering other complex systems.

All in all, we’ll consider the book successful if a significant percentage of open-minded,
appropriately-educated readers come away from it scratching their chins and pondering: “Hmm.
You know, that just might work.” and a small percentage come away thinking Now that’s an
initiative I'd really like to help with!.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012921
