12

to his religious base. In fact, the relationship between Hamas and al
Qaeda, and between Hamas and al Qaeda-like jihadists in Gaza, is far
more contentious. Zawahiri has blasted Hamas for adhering to
ceasefires with Israel, not immediately implementing Islamic law in
Gaza, and otherwise deviating from the pure faith of jihadism.

To prevent these ideas from eroding its support, Hamas has harshly
repressed al Qaeda-inspired jihadists in Gaza, arresting and even
torturing some of the individuals linked to these groups, according to
Israeli sources. In 2009, one Salafi-jihadist preacher declared Gaza to
be an Islamic state; Hamas stormed the mosque that was his base,
killing him and over 20 others.

But the biggest difference is that Hamas is a success while al Qaeda is
a failure. Hamas has gone from a small group overshadowed by Yasir
Arafat's Fatah to a large and powerful organization. Whether we like
it or not, Hamas is the government of Gaza -- and terrorism helped
them get there. And with the fall of Mubarak and the emergence of
the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt as an important political actor
there, Hamas may gain influence. Al Qaeda, in contrast, is if
anything farther from its goals of ending U.S. regional influence and
establishing a caliphate than it was 15 years ago.

Despite Netanyahu's rhetoric, Hamas cannot simply be wished away
when it comes to the peace process. It represents a large portion of
Palestinian opinion, and it has repeatedly demonstrated that it can use
suicide bombers, rocket attacks, or other forms of terrorism to disrupt
any talks. But the group's occasional pragmatism suggests that under
the right conditions it can be convinced not to play the spoiler. Such
an effort may fail and involves many sticks as well as carrots, but a
similar effort with al Qaeda would be a fool's errand.

Netanyahu's government may be dead-set against talking with Hamas,
but treating it like al Qaeda and using this as a reason to not negotiate
with moderates like Abbas only convinces skeptical Palestinians that

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023528
