~

second, the creation of an opportunity for a court challenge through non-enforcement (e.g., Myers).

2) Appropriations Limitation for Rules Vetoed by Congress, 4B Op. O.L.C. 731 (1980): In this

opinion we rejected the constitutionality of a proposed legislative veto, prior to the Court's decision in
Chadha. We opined that [t]o regard this provision as legally binding would impair the Executive's
constitutional role and would constitute an abdication of the responsibility of the Executive Branch.
Id. at 734. It should be noted that the legislation in question was pending in Congress, and the
possibility that President Carter would sign the legislation did not affect our analysis of the
constitutional issue. We simply stated that, if enacted, the [legislative veto provision] will not have
any legal effect. Id.

3) Issues Raised by Section 102(c)(2) of H.R. 3792, 14 Op. O.L.C. 38 (1990) (preliminary print): This
opinion also addressed then-pending legislation, in this case the foreign relations authorization bill for

fiscal years 1990 and 1991. The opinion found that a provision of the bill was unconstitutional and
severable. Regarding non-execution, the opinion stated that at least in the context of legislation that
infringes the separation of powers, the President has the constitutional authority to refuse to enforce
unconstitutional laws. Id. at 53. The opinion concluded that “if the President chooses to sign H.R.
3792, he would be constitutionally authorized to decline to enforce the constitutionally objectionable

section. Id. at 38.

4) Issues Raised by Section 129 of Pub. L. No. 102-138 and Section 503 of Pub. L. No. 102-140, 16

Op. O.L.C. 18 (1992) (preliminary print): This opinion concluded that two statutory provisions that

limited the issuance of official and diplomatic passports were unconstitutional and were severable from

the remainder of the two statutes. On the question of non-execution, the opinion rejected the argument

that the President may not treat a statute as invalid prior to a judicial determination. Id. at 40. The
opinion concluded that the Constitution authorizes the President to refuse to enforce a law that he
believes is unconstitutional.

5) Memorandum for Bernard N. Nussbaum, Counsel to the President, from. Walter Dellinger, Assistant
Attorney General, Office of Legal Counsel (Nov. 3, 1993): This opinion discusses different categories

of signing statements, including those construing bills to avoid constitutional problems and those in

which the President declares “that a provision of the bill before him is flatly unconstitutional, and that
he will refuse to enforce it. Id. at 3. The opinion concludes that such uses of Presidential signing
statements generally serve legitimate and defensible purposes. Id. at 7.

Presidential Signing Statements

1) Statement by the State Department (Announcing President Wilson's Refusal to Carry Out the
Section of the Jones Merchant Marine Act of June 5, 1920, directing him to terminate treaty provisions
restricting the Government's right to impose discriminatory tonnage dues and tariff duties )I7A
Compilation of the Messages and Papers of the Presidents 8871 (Sept. 24, 1920) (Pres. Wilson): The

State Department announced that it has been informed by the President that he does not deem the

direction contained in Section 34 of the so-called Merchant Marine Act an exercise of any

constitutional power possessed by the Congress. Id. The statement also defended President Wilson's —

‘decision to sign the bill and noted that the fact that one section of the law involves elements of

illegality rendering the section inoperative need not affect the validity and operation of the Act as a
whole. 5.Green Haywood Hackworth, Digest of International Law 324 (1943).

2) Special Message to the Congress Upon Signing the Department of Defense Appropriation Act, Pub.

Papers of Dwight D, Eisenhower 688 (July 13, 1955): President Eisenhower, in signing a bill (H.R.

6042) that contained a legislative veto, stated that the legislative veto will be regarded as invalid by
the executive branch of the Government in the administration of H.R. 6042, unless otherwise
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction. Id. at 689.-

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012390
