98 Teaching Minds

clamoring for what is now offered. Ninety-eight percent of them
want to be programmers, Almost none of them want Ph.D.s.

I cannot go to a faculty meeting any more. I get into a fight
at every faculty meeting. I argue about teaching and education
and they think they know because they are professors. I cannot
subject myself anymore to their abuse.

These problems exist precisely because of the subject-based
education system. That system is about factual knowledge, and it is
this emphasis on factual knowledge that has given rise to the testing
mania that has swept the country. These problems exist because the
real mission of the university is very different than the general public
imagines.

Here is a quote and a story that I rather like:

A university is what a college becomes when the faculty loses
interest in students.—John Ciardi

Benjamin Franklin told the story of some Massachusetts
commissioners who invited the Indians to send a dozen of their
youth to study free at Harvard. The Indians replied that they
had sent some of their young braves to study there years earlier,
but on their return “they were absolutely good for nothing,
being neither acquainted with the true methods for killing deer,
catching beaver, or surprising an enemy.” They offered instead to
educate a dozen or so white children in the ways of the Indians
“and make men of them.”(From Benjamin Franklin, An American
Life, by Walter Isaacson)

What has changed? Key life skills no longer include catching beaver.
Otherwise, things are pretty much the same. Change “catching bea-
ver” to any modern daily skill, and Franklin’s story is just as valid
today.

What do students really learn at a great university? Parents never
really ask this question. They just know that their kid got into a good
college and that their child is lucky to go there.

Should you avoid sending your child to top schools because they
don’t teach so well there and really don’t plan to improve the situa-
tion any time soon?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023844
