C. Advisors are ALL Koch-related. Here is where it gets fun. Former campaign advisor Corey
Lewandowski came from KochLand. Rebekah Mercer is part of Koch and and gave $2.5 mn to
Freedom Partners. Kellyanne Conway has connections to Pence from way back and is connected to
Steve Bannon through the Center for National Policy. Trump deputy campaign manager David Bossie
came from Citizens United. The Director of Coalitions for Trump is named Alan Cobb -- he came from
Americans for Prosperity. Daren Selnick is a transition advisor and he came from Concerned
Veterans. Others on the Trump team who came from Kochland include Stuart Jolly, Eli Miller, Scott
Hagerstrom and Matt Ciepielowski.

HH
it

3. BUY the hell out of Russia -- Exxon Rex is a cabinet trifecta for Koch Brothers.

A. And there's Exxon Rex. Any contribution from Exxon received money from Koch -- and vice versa.
Rex Tillerson is worth $151 million and is leaving Exxon next year. He seems to have accepted
secretary of state position. He inked a deal worth $300 billion in oil and gas exploration in 2012. (For
that, he received the highest civilian honour bestowed by Russia). This will be a boom for Koch
Industries as the sanctions against Russia are lifted. (Thank you Uncle Vlad for interfering in the
elections). This will be a boom for Russia -- for equities, FX and bonds. It is clear that sanctions
against Russia will be lifted regardless of whether Russia interfered in the elections. (Clinton made
this a campaign issue and still lost!).

B. Anyone who thinks this will be reversed by Greenpeace or other green organization is kidding
themselves. The Senate and House is Republican. Majority parties control all committees so they
control the agenda. The agenda is set. These guys are geniuses with the news cycle. And the vast
array of think tanks controlled by the Koch Brothers (most of them) allows them to control the news
cycle as well as the opinion pages of newspapers. The web on control on public opinion from the
Koch Brothers reaches every newspaper through a large array of think tanks like the AEI and Cato
Institute, not to mention the vast array of Koch think tanks.

C. If you don't like this, tough luck. Life is not fair. This is not going to be reversed. Think of it as
watching a science experiment. Bush lost the popular vote to Gore in 2001 and completely reversed
policies on tax, environment, Middle East, energy, fracking, birth control, and LGBT issues. Trump,
Pence, Bannon and Koch will make a deal which will be a hybrid of religious right on moral issues and
zero intrusion from government” in commerce. Republicans already control the Senate, the House, a
majority of governorships as well as a majority of attorneys general. It will be very hard to reverse
this. And if Trump can deliver jobs to the midwest red states, more senate seats will turn red. Tom
Pyle's list of things to for the Department of Energy's transition team is expressly designed to do this.
This includes new oil and gas leasing projects, more fracking, more coal, more LNG projects -- and a
green light for both the Keystone and Dakota pipelines. The working paper reneges on the Paris pact,
the Clean Power Plan and the carbon tax. And it is expressly a climate change denial policy. States
like North Dakota, South Dakota, Oklahoma, Iowa, Texas, Louisiana, West Virginia, Kansas and
others will come to life again.. Most of these states have small populations but each gets a governor
and two senators.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026039
