perpetration of an attack.) | just tweeted this morning actually the following in regards to US
coordinations with the Russians: One must know a renowned Rus mafiaso was granted entry
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vyacheslav_lvankov#Moving to the United States ... be4 the real
story of today's US-Rus relations is slowly known in response to the following comment
@turndeaux: Peter Dale Scott, who writes about the Deep State, says Russia issue is a bona fide
security issue, not a diversion”.

About Bud Horton and the Loudoun County matter - in attempts to make a long story short, the
following email chain:

On Monday, June 26, 2017 10:57 AM, [i 2c:

Sheriff Chapman,
Loudoun Count, VA

Did you ever consider that Loudoun was a target? That your community was induced to walk it's own
children down the plank as compensation for what Loudoun had done to the young Dima Yakovlev?
Because now child exploitation is deeply embedded within your community with your own people
(your own police, your own prosecutors, your own public defenders and private attorneys) protecting
this very system that will be used to take the futures of your Loudoun children (see more of the
details below). Is it possible that that's how this happened, and you saw it not unfolding before your
eyes? Or was it simply money and just another good enough justification?

Forwarded Message

Changeis,

You reported in May of 2014 that you hired Bob Richel formerly of the DEA as Vice President of
Corporate Development. In an April 2014 interview by the Loudoun County Police (those in the
mouth of the lion but not quite aware of it yet but to have foreseen the ways in which the 2008 death
of the Russian born 21 month-old Dima Yakovlev (renamed Chase Harrison by his Purcellville, VA
adoptive parents) would have been used as justification for a (quite profitable) counter-offensive... )
of Henry Bud Horton (characterized by Loudoun County as a victim of the recent False
statement to Law Enforcement Officer (LEO) of him sexually exploiting the 15 year-old Anjulee
Gunther), Henry Bud Horton named Bob Rachel as one of the DEA guys he used to work with.
This takes on unusual significance in light of the below, no?

(How lovely, by the way, this following information and the ways in which it helps us understand
many of the hidden influences: Halliburton is also involved with the Russian mob. They're got sort of
two things going on. One is oil and the other is drug trafficking. Halliburton is a story all by itself.”

(says Stan Goff, http://narconews.com/goffmccormick1.html))

On Saturday, June 24, 2017 2:43 PM, [i

Mr. Satz,
State's Attorney, Broward County, FI

I'm forwarding the below information as it pertains to Mrs. Lesley Simms and more importantly the
ones with whom she continues to coordinate.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017596
