spotlight; he was well aware that the president meticulously logged all claims against
credit that he believed solely to be his. Both he and Kushner, the two most important
figures in the White House after the president, seemed professionally mute. Still, Bannon
seemed to be everywhere, and the president was convinced—trightly—that it was the result
of Bannon’s private press operation. More often than self-mockery could sustain, Bannon
referred to himself as “President Bannon.” A bitter Kellyanne Conway, regularly dissed
for her own spotlight grabbing, confirmed the president’s observation that Bannon stepped
into as many White House photo ops as possible. (Everybody seemed to keep count of
everybody else’s photo bombs.) Bannon also did not much bother to disguise his
innumerable blind quotes, nor to make much of an effort to temper his not-so-private slurs
against Kushner, Cohn, Powell, Conway, Priebus, and even the president’s daughter
(often, most especially, the president’s daughter).

Curiously, Bannon never expressed a sideways thought about Trump—not yet.
Trump’s own righteousness and soundness was perhaps too central to Bannon’s construct
of Trumpism. Trump was the idea you had to support. This could seem to approach the
traditional idea of respecting the office. In fact, it was the inverse. The man was the vessel:
there was no Bannon without Trump. However much he might stand on his unique, even
magical-seeming, contributions to the Trump victory, Bannon’s opportunity was wholly
provided by Trump’s peculiar talent. He was no more than the man behind the man—
Trump’s Cromwell, as he put it, even though he was perfectly aware of Cromwell’s fate.

But his loyalty to the idea of Trump hardly protected him from the actual Trump’s
constant briefs against him. The president had assembled a wide jury to weigh Bannon’s
fate, putting before it, in an insulting Borscht Belt style, a long list of Bannon’s
annoyances: “Guy looks homeless. Take a shower, Steve. You’ve worn those pants for six
days. He says he’s made money, I don’t believe it.” (The president, notably, never much
took issue with Bannon’s policy views.) The Trump administration was hardly two months
old, yet every media outlet was predicting Bannon’s coming defenestration.

One particularly profitable transaction with the president was to bring him new, ever
harsher criticism of his chief strategist, or reports of other people criticizing him. It was
important to know not to say anything positive to Trump about Bannon. Even faint praise
before the “but’”—“Steve is obviously smart, but ...”—could produce a scowl and pout if
you didn’t hurry to the “but.” (Then again, saying anyone was “smart” invariably incurred
Trump’s annoyance.) Kushner enlisted Scarborough and Brzezinski in something of a
regular morning television Bannon slag-a-thon.

H. R. McMaster, the three-star general who had replaced Michael Flynn as National
Security Advisor, had secured the president’s pledge that he could veto members of the
NSC. Kushner, a supporter of McMaster’s appointment, had quickly ensured that Dina
Powell, a key player in the Kushner faction, would join the NSC and Bannon would be
removed.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020015
