defendants, and was undertaken deliberately and with actual malice towards the plaintiff and her
unborn child.

... 69. As the direct and proximate result of defendant Palmisano, Skoog, Susan Horton, and Scala's
conduct, the plaintiff suffered a severe placental abruption, which terminated her pregnancy and
ended the life of her unborn child, causing the plaintiff to suffer damages including but not limited to
the loss of her child, loss of affection, grief, sorrow, extreme mental torment and emotional distress.

- Initial Complaint, filed 5/16/11, McGuire v. IBM, et al, Case No.: 1:11CV528, US District Court of
Virginia - Eastern Division, Alexandria, Judge Leonie Brinkema presiding

This is to say that John and Avery Gunther helped IBM defend against an allegation of murder, and
in this way they are accomplices to a cover-up. This is also to say that the characterization provided
by John and Avery Gunther in their April 2011 Superior Court filing for a Protection Order against me
and their admissions in this filing of having provided derogatory information to various persons
and/or entities in the DC area to include school administrators, psychologists, and law enforcement,
were more to harm me, especially in my chances to hold IBM accountable, than to protect either
themselves or children Anjulee and Xian Gunther.

| also long-allege that the relationship that developed from this initial quid pro quo led to John and
Avery Gunther being similarly compensated for what turned into the sexual exploitation of their two
daughters. For more on child sexual exploitation for the sake of personal and professional leverage,
see especially the following:

Nick Bryant | The Franklin Scandal & The Elite’s Pedophilia Cover Up,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=68qvGGPjm0o0&t=978s

That the NSF won't acknowledge the abuse, and won't respond even to my FOIA requests, and
otherwise has gone to extents to protect Cathie Skoog and her co-conspirators at IBM and otherwise
is all that was needed to have adequately turned the organization towards the interests of the Deep
State. Now it is simply a matter of the Deep State continuing to put the NSF to use.

*

*

Jeffrey Epstein in context:
(As sent to the Wash Post)

| send you this in response to the recent column entitled Believe in the Process by Kenneth Starr.
Perhaps rethink any public affiliation with Ken Starr; although his demeanor on paper is undoubtably
consoling, it is also a bit intoxifying when it would be best now if we keep our wits about us, no?

| say this from the following perspective - Ken Starr of the Starr Report, attorney for (1) Erik Prince of
Blackwater and (2) convicted pedophile Jeffrey Epstein in context:

The Starr Report buried behind salacious detail of the Lewinsky affair almost nothing of Whitewater,
Travelgate, or otherwise what many consider the murder of Vince Foster (Foster, albeit the subject
of a different investigation was also under the purview of attorney Starr and formal investigation of
the results of Starr's investigation were drowned out by the details of the Lewinsky affair.) This is a
bit strange considering the Lewinsky affair was a moral failing and not an actionable criminal one as
would have been the others had any proof surfaced.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015024
