206 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

per, director of national intelligence, justified the secret intelligence
budget by saying in an open session of Congress, “We are bolstering
our support for clandestine SIGINT [signals intelligence] capabilities
to collect against high priority targets, including foreign leadership
targets,” and to develop “groundbreaking cryptanalytic capabilities
to defeat adversarial cryptography and exploit Internet traffic.” It
was no secret to Congress, even before Snowden, that the NSA was
attempting to monitor the Internet. What was a closely held secret
before Snowden revealed it was that the NSA had found a way in
2007 to intercept Internet traffic before it was encrypted.

Through all this tumult, the heart of the NSA’s activity remained
its five-thousand-acre base at Fort Meade, Maryland. It commanded
the most powerful mechanism for intercepting communications that
the world had ever seen. No other country came close to its tech-
nology for intercepting information. The NSA not only was able to
intercept secret information from potential adversaries but also—at
least until the Snowden breach—managed to conceal these means
from them. As long as these adversaries remained blind to the ways

© in which their communications were being intercepted, deciphered, ®
and read by the NSA, they could not take effective countermeasures.
Consequently, the NSA had the capability to provide the president
and his advisers with continuous insights into the thinking and
planning of potential enemies.

Keeping its sources and methods secret was no easy task. The
NSA’s technicians had to deal with continuous technical challenges
to provide a seamless harvesting of data from a wide range of com-
munication devices, including telephones, computers, and the Inter-
net. It required continuous intra-agency communications between
the NSA’s own intelligence officers and a growing number of civilian
technicians. It even had its own “ Wiki-style” network through which
they could discuss problems, called the NSANet. Because it could
not tightly control access to this technical network, it expunged any
mention of the sources and methods from the material circulated on
the classified NSA network. Instead, it stored them in discrete com-
puters, called compartments, which were disconnected from other
computers at the NSA. These compartments could only be accessed
by a limited number of analysts and NSA executives who had a need

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.indd 206 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019694
