Oo OAT HH PW nN

NNN NNN PP BP PP BP oe oe oe oe
“Ud WN EF Ow ON AU eB WN HO

Oo Own un ® Wn

NNNNNNFRP RP RPP EP BP BP BB
ORWNHEP COvwWAaIYHA UY BWNHO

A. Truth has many, many meanings and is a
continuum. The Supreme Court has held that
rhetorical hyperbole cannot be the basis, for
example, of perjury prosecutions or generally of a
defamation prosecution.

So it depends on the context. You might
just look at the dictionary and probably get a
variety of definitions for it.

BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. Well, what I'm concerned about,

Mr. Dershowitz, is not a dictionary definition. I
want to know what your understanding of rhetorical
hyperbole is.

And do you agree that pursuant to your
understanding of rhetorical hyperbole, it is an
exaggeration beyond the facts?

MR. SCOTT: Objection, argumentative and

compound, three questions.

A. No --

MR. SCOTT: You can answer.

A. -- I would not agree with that definition.

BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. Okay. Then define it for us, if you
would, please.

A. I think J have already.

oOo Onwa nu BW DdD

NNNNNP PEF PP BP Pe PB
BWNFP Ow OI HU BwWnNR OO

187

transcript of the interview? We'd like to see
it.

MR. SCAROLA: That's exactly what I gave
you, the photocopy.

MR. SCOTT: We're doing it right now.
Maybe we can move on and come back then.

MR. SCAROLA: No, I would like to proceed.

MR. SCOTT: Then let's stop until I get a
copy of it. Because he -- | want --

MR. SCAROLA: J don't think that's
necessary because your client has told us that
he has a superb memory and one of the things |
would like to know is what he's able to recall.

If he needs to refresh his memory, the
transcripts will be here in just a moment, but
I don't want to delay going forward.

MR. SCOTT: Do you need the transcript to
refresh your memory?

THE WITNESS: Well, I have no memory of
what specifically | said on a particular day in
a particular interview.

MR. SCOTT: Since you have a copy in front
of him, why don't you just show him your copy
then? Read the -- ask your question and let
him read it.

186

Q. I'm sorry, I missed the definition. Could
you tell us what rhetorical hyperbole is?

MR. SCOTT: Objection, repetitious. He's
done it.

A. Why don't we just read back my answer.

BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. Because I didn't understand it, so I would
like you to try to give us a direct response to that
question if you're able te.

A. | will repeat exactly what I said. A
rhetorical means verbal and hyperbole means some
exaggeration of the facts for political or other
reasons, but generally it is truthful in a literal
sense but perhaps -- it all depends on context.

And if you tell me the context in which I
used it, I will be happy to describe what | meant in
that context. But } don’t think you can really
answer a question about what two words put together

mean without understanding the context.
Q. Okay. Well, we're going to talk about
some context.
Do you recall having been interviewed on
CNN Tonight on January 5, 2015?
A. have no current recollection of --
MR. SCOTT: Do you have a copy of the

BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. Do you recall having been interviewed on
CNN Tonight by Don Lemon?

A. Yes, I do.

Q. Do you recall having been interviewed on
CNN Tonight by Don Lemon in carly January of 2015,
where you spoke about matters that have become the
subject of this litigation?

A. Yes, Ido.

Q. Did you make the following statement
during the course of that interview: As to the
airplanes, there are manifests that will prove
beyond any doubt that I was never on a private
airplane with this woman or any other underage
girl?

MR. SCOTT: You need to see the
transcript?
THE WITNESS: No. No.
A. That is a truthful statement. | would
repeat it right now. I've reviewed the manifests.
First, 1 know I was never on the airplane
with any underage woman. I know that for a fact. |
have absolutely no doubt in my mind about that. And
the records that I have reviewed confirm that.
They have Virginia Roberts on a number of

3 (Pages 185 to 188)

www.phippsreporting.com
(888) 811-3408

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010785
