30

group may have taken a backseat to the liberal youth movement that
brought down the dictator, but it has wasted little time in preparing
for the post-Mubarak era. Although the generals in charge of Egypt's
transition have not yet announced a date for the parliamentary
elections (which are expected in the fall), the Brotherhood is already
campaigning vigorously, in Cairo and the countryside. The youth
movement, on the other hand, seems unable to break out of protest
mode. The gap between the two sides was exposed in a mid-March
referendum on constitutional reforms. The Brotherhood mobilized a
massive yes vote to ensure that any meaningful reforms would take
place after the parliamentary elections. The liberals were split, unsure
as to which scenario they feared more: a constitution written by a
military-appointed panel before the elections, or one written by a
Brotherhood-dominated parliament afterward. It was a rout: 77%
voted yes.

The gap has not closed. Since the referendum, many liberals have
sought to undermine the result by trying to force through reforms
before the elections. Their great champion, former U.N. nuclear
watchdog (and Nobel laureate) Mohamed ElBaradei, argues that the
constitution can't wait for people's elected representatives. The youth
leaders agree and are threatening to return to Tahrir Square if they
don't get their way. They claim the referendum doesn't matter because
the Brotherhood misled Egyptians by portraying it as a vote on
religion. (The Islamists deny this, and some neutral observers say
both sides played fast and loose with the facts.)

This carping makes the liberals look like sore losers, and far from
democratic. Critics accuse them of trying to buy time: a
postponement in the elections would give liberals more time to get
their political house in order and hopefully catch up with the
Brotherhood's organizational lead. Even Alaa al-Aswany, a novelist
and strong Brotherhood critic, acknowledges that it ill behooves the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030185
