Teaching Kids to Walk and Talk 25

It is important, when teaching Socratically, which is my preferred
methodology, to make students question their beliefs. No one is a bet-
ter teacher than a teacher who makes students wonder whether he has
been wrong about something.

Do I think that teachers should lie to students?

I think teachers should make students think harder than they
might have been capable of doing without the teachers. I also think
that teachers should not tell answers to students. Students do not learn
from memorizing answers. They learn from developing questions for
themselves that they then can begin to find answers to.

| believe that effective teaching makes .. .

students develop questions to which they then will seek answers
students look for answers from people other than the teacher
students confused and less certain than they were before

Now, I realize that these are pretty nonstandard ideas. That is, of
course, the point.

This next writer worked for me (after getting his Ph.D. elsewhere)
in the academic world and later in the business world.

Probably the most important lesson I learned from you was the
value of overstatement and oversimplification in communicating
ideas and getting people’s attention. I recently retired and was
roasted at my retirement party by a group of longtime employees
and there were some interesting anecdotes about what I’d taught
them about selling their ideas through management. Software
engineers are often uncomfortable making a point without
giving every possible nuance, caveat, and detail. This typically
causes management’s eyes to gloss over and their ideas never

get a fair hearing. So, I’ve (apparently relentlessly) encouraged
employees to make their points quickly and to use overstatement
and oversimplification as rhetorical devices. I’m still wincing
over the roasts that portrayed my predilection for interrupting
presenters and asking, “What’s your point?”—I learned that one
from you.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023771
