professionals (and lonely mates) may label these interpersonally distant,
engineering rocket science people, “high functioning” sufferers of Asperger's autistic
spectrum disorder. Things going on inside get most of the attention, having more
impelling importance than those on the outside involving other people. A recent
study by Cambridge University’s Autism Research Center compares the
empathizing (E) versus systemizing (S) ability of normal controls and adults with
Asperger Syndrome and find the quasi-autistic adults are deficient in E and superior
in S. They call it the E-S theory of autistic spectrum diseases. Psychotherapists of
these autistic spectrum personality types, patients who characteristically do not
seek therapy but are forced into the office by marital or family conflict, speak of their
long, patient and mighty struggles to make intimate contact with these clients. A
more philosophical question involves issues of what are acceptable individual
differences and why it is that these high functioning, highly paid and successful
professionals have any diagnosis at all.

It is not surprising that the highest paid members of corporations producing
technical products and services such as IBM and Oracle are those rare individuals
in technical sales that are able to combine the skills and insights of introverted
scientists and technicians with those of the gregariously successful salespersons. In
business schools such a blend is seen in people who combine talents in both
marketing and finance. In architecture this combination might take the form of a
graphic-design artist with computational mechanical engineering skills. Recruiters
know that it is difficult to find people for what is called engineering sales.

From all over the United States, professional instrumental musicians that
began to experience severe technical difficulties that defied their teachers as well as
more extended practice time came to see Chicago’s music guru, Carl Boardstadt.
He was a nationally known consultant to classical and jazz professionals in the
1920’s and 30’s. His particular specialty involved those who had “hit the wall,” those
whose progress toward advanced musical mastery and accession into the higher
echelons of the business had been truncated. His recommendations were often
eccentric indeed. For the wind musician with breadth control problems, it might be

blowing uniform bubbles through a long tube held at increasing depths of a filled

37

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013537
