4.2.12
WC: 191694

OJ Simpson and Claus Von Bulow

My two most famous—infamous?—cases involved homicide: the OJ Simpson double murder
prosecution; and the Claus Von Bulow assault with intent to kill (or attempted murder)
prosecution. I have written books about both the Von Bulow and Simpson case, detailing how
science was used to challenge the prosecution’s case.® I will not repeat what I wrote in those
books, except to highlight how important it is for lawyers, especially those involved in complex
homicide cases, to master the science, to be able to question the other side’s scientific
conclusions, and to accept nothing on face value.

I agreed to join the OJ Simpson defense team, despite my earlier public statements that the
evidence pointed to him as the killer. Among the reasons I took the case was that Simpson was
facing the death penalty, and I have a policy of generally accepting capital cases.

Eventually the District Attorney decided not to seek the death penalty. This was surprising,
because if Simpson did, in fact, murder his wife and the man she was with, the death penalty
would seem appropriate under the usual criteria for imposing it. The killings seemed to be in cold
blood, especially brutal and there were two victims. The fact that the District Attorney opted
against it, demonstrated, once again, the entirely arbitrary nature of decision-making as it relates
to who is and who is not subjected to capital punishment.

In any event, having agreed to join the team, I couldn’t abandon my client even though the death
penalty was now off the table. Simpson still faced two sentences of life imprisonment without the
possibility of parole—for some a fate worse than death.

My special role in the case would be to prepare and argue complex legal motions and to help
formulate the scientific, or forensic, defense. I would also argue the appeal in the event of a
conviction. I recommended that Barry Scheck and Peter Neufeld, who were experts in the
relatively new science of DNA, be added to the team.

After extensive investigation, we were able to demonstrate, by means of sophisticated scientific
evidence, that the police had planted O.J. Simpson’s blood, along with the blood of his alleged
victims, on a sock found in Simpson’s bedroom after the crime. The blood on the sock had high
levels of a chemical that are not found in human blood, but that are added to vials of blood to
prevent it from coagulating. The bloodstains on the sock also proved that the blood had been
dripped on it while it was lying flat, rather than splattered on it while it was being worn. There

® Reversal of Fortune and Reasonable Doubts.

°° Sometimes the prosecutor seeks the death penalty simply to gain a tactical advantage at the guilt or innocence
phase of the trial. This advantage derives from the fact that in death penalty cases, the prosecutor is entitled to a
“death qualified” jury consisting of 12 people who have no conscientious objection to capital punishment and
would be willing to sentence someone to death. Such jurors, according to jury experts, tend to be pro-prosecution
in general and more likely to vote guilty at the trial. Prosecutors know this and ask for the death penalty even in
cases not warranting it, simply to improve the chances of securing a conviction. Once they get their pro-
prosecution jury, they sometimes decline to seek the death penalty. Early in my career, I was retained by F. Lee
Bailey to prepare a petition for certiorari to the Supreme Court challenging this practice in the case of Miller v.
California. The Supreme Court granted my petition for review, but then after oral argument by Bailey, the justices
denied the review over a strong dissent.

182

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017269
