secret; no names on their list would be disclosed to my attorneys or myself until I
was already firmly in a jail cell. A list that we would not only be obliged to pay
money to, but if any of the women did not accept the $50,000, I would be required to
pay an attorney, chosen by the government, to represent the women to enable them
to sue me; I would have to pay their attorney fees. I would be given the names of the
women after being in jail, would not be allowed to appeal this deal, pay women,
some of whom I had never even met, and if I chose to fight this deal, I would be
threatened over and over with being in breach of my agreement. The attorney
chosen by the government to represent these women hired his own daughter, a
sitting state prosecutor, who received special leave to represent these women, and
though she continued to receive her state salary, billed me over $800,000 ina
period of one year to represent women suing me. When my side raised objections,
we were told that if we fought this, the government would declare a breach of my
agreement and indict me. The AUSA actually filed an affidavit with the court that
stated that “The protection from the government that Epstein thought he bargained
for really is “illusory”, we can always bring a case against him for the live span of any
woman we think has been a victim.”

After serving my sentence, I was sued by many women on the government list.
During many of the depositions taken in those cases, the women admitted to the
following: they had many other clients, they got paid thousands of dollars a week to
work in the local massage parlors and sex clubs, they kept their list of johns in their
Bible. Many had abusive boyfriends and abortions way before they ever met me,
though they claimed sex assault abuse and various other sex claims. Most later
brought their best friends to the house who also claimed the same abuse in the
hopes of getting money.

With what the newspapers had called a dream team, each and every lawyer, when
they saw the result of the negotiations, said with incredulity, “We have never seen
anything like this before”. I had never left my house and the women had not traveled
on my planes or to another state. I had never made money off of these women. I was
a consumer of prostitution, a john. The government said that they could invoke a
statute for travel for the purpose of sex, which would be the equivalent to tourists
who sign on to fake web sites advertising sex with minors in Cambodia, Thailand
and other third world countries. The government said that they could charge me
with traveling to Florida to have sex with an underage girl, even though sex with 16
year olds is legal in New Jersey and Pennsylvania and sex with 17 year olds is legal
in New York. They suggested that they would indict me for traveling to Florida FOR
THE PURPOSE of having sex with minors. Not withstanding the fact that I hada
home in Florida for 15 years, regularly traveled to see my brother, mother and
business associates. They said that they thought a novel application could at least
get me indicted, unless I took the state plea deal. I had little choice. The crimes they
alleged, no matter what the likelihood of success, carried with them a minimum
mandatory 10-year sentence. I recognize that am not a sympathetic figure, and
had to decide whether to risk a trial where the jury would see an older man and
young women that would be paraded in Sunday school outfits during the trial.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025542
