\ is U.S. Department of Justice

United States Attorney
Southern District of Florida

500 S. Australian Ave, Ste 400
West Palm Beach, FL 33401
(561) 820-8711

Facsimile: (561) 820-8777

December 13, 2007

DELIVERY BY ELECTRONIC MAIL
Jay P. Lefkowitz, Esq.

Kirkland & Ellis LLP

Citigroup Center

153 East 53rd Street

New York, New York 10022-4675

Re: Jeffrey Epstein
Dear Jay:

Tam writing not to respond to your asserted “policy concerns” regarding Mr. Epstein’ s Non-
Prosecution Agreement, which will be addressed by the United States Attorney, but the time has
come for me to respond to the ever-increasing attacks on my role in the investigation and
negotiations.

It is an understatement to say that I am surprised by your allegations regarding my role
because I thought that we had worked very well together in resolving this dispute. I also am
surprised because I feel that I bent over backwards to keep in mind the effect that the agreement
would have on Mr. Epstein and to make sure that you (and he) understood the repercussions of the
agreement. For example, I brought to your attention that one potential plea could result in no gain
time for your client; I corrected one of your calculations of the Sentencing Guidelines that would
have resulted in Mr. Epstein spending far more time in prison than you projected; I contacted the
Bureau of Prisons to see whether Mr. Epstein would be eligible for the prison camp that you desired;
and I told you my suspicions about the source of the press “leak” and suggested ways to avoid the
press. Importantly, I continued to work with you in a professional manner even after I learned that
you had been proceeding in bad faith for several weeks — thinking that I had incorrectly concluded
that solicitation of minors to engage in prostitution was a registrable offense and that you would
“fool” our Office into letting Mr. Epstein plead to a non-registrable offense. Even now, when it is
clear that neither you nor your client ever intended to abide by the terms of the agreement that he
signed, I have never alleged misconduct on your part.

The first allegation that you raise is that I “assiduously” hid from you the fact that Bert
Ocariz is a friend of my boyfriend and that I have a “longstanding relationship” with Mr. Ocariz.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012577
