TED2017: The future you 4/20/17, 12:07 PM

aclu.org

T. Morgan Dixon
Health activist

T. Morgan Dixon is the co-founder and CEO of GirlTrek, inspiring nearly 100,000 neighborhood walkers.

T. Morgan Dixon co-leads GirlTrek, the largest public health nonprofit for African-American women and girls in the United States.
GirlTrek encourages women to use walking as a practical first step to inspire healthy living, families and communities and knits local
advocacy together to lead a civil rights-inspired health movement that seeks to eliminate barriers to physical activity, improve access to
safe places to walk, protect and reclaim green spaces and improve the walkability and built environments of 50 high-need communities
across the United States.

Prior to GirlTrek, Dixon was on the front lines of education reform. She served as Director of Leadership Development for one of the
largest charter school networks in the country, Achievement First, and directed the start-up of six public schools in New York City for St.
Hope and the Urban Assembly, two organizations funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. As the leader of GirlTrek, Morgan
received fellowships from Echoing Green (2013), Ashoka (2014) and The Aspen Institute (2015).

girltrek.org @GirlTrek

Vanessa Garrison
Health activist

As COO of GirlTrek, Vanessa Garrison encourages African American women and girls to get out and take a walk.

‘Vanessa Garrison is the co-founder and COO of GirlTrek, the largest public health nonprofit for African-American women and girls in the
United States. With nearly 100,000 neighborhood walkers, GirlTrek encourages women to use walking as a practical first step to inspire
healthy living, families and communities.

Working with partners, GirlTrek has developed a world-class training for African-American women to serve as health professionals in the

areas of fitness, mental health, nutrition, and environmental stewardship. Prior to GirlTrek, Garrison worked as a Program Coordinator for
Our Place DC, a nonprofit organization that provides services to currently and formerly incarcerated women. In her work with GirlTrek,
she's received fellowships from Echoing Green and The Aspen Institute and been named “Health Hero” by Essence Magazine.

girltrek.org @GirlTrek

Tuesday, April 25, 2:15PM - 4:00PM PDT

TED en Espafiol: Conexi6n y Sentido

Hosted by Gerry Garbulsky, TED en Espafiol showcases powerful ideas in Spanish. Join us in the Community Theater. (English translation will be available.)

Gabriela Gonzalez
Astrophysicist

Gabriela Gonzalez is part of the collaboration of more than 1,000 scientists who measured for the first time the gravitational waves that
Einstein predicted over 100 years ago.

Over 100 years after Albert Einstein predicted gravitational waves -- ripples in space-time caused by violent cosmic collision, like the
merging of two black holes -- the LIGO Scientific Collaboration confirmed their existence using large, hyper-sensitive detectors in
different parts of the world. As LIGO's former spokesperson and the person responsible for the collaboration of 90 international scientific
institutions that the project entailed, Argentine astrophysicist Gabriela Gonzdlez announced the extraordinary discovery to the world in
2016.

Arelentless curiosity about the universe led Gonzalez to astrophysics as a teenager. Over the course of her 25-year career, she has
advanced the field of gravitational wave detection, working on both improving the sensitivity of interferometers and data analysis. She is
the recipient of the E. Bouchet and the Jesse W. Beams awards from the American Physical Society, the B. Rossi prize from the American
Astronomical Society, and the 2016 Scientific Discovery Award from the US National Academy of Sciences. She was the first woman to
receive a full professorship in the physics department at Louisiana State University.

phys.lsu.edu/faculty/gonzalez/

Jorge Drexler
Musician, poet

Jorge Drexler is a musician and the first Uruguayan to win an Oscar. His music plays with genre and influence, combining subtle
harmonies and regional styles with electronic effects.

Jorge Drexler doesn't lay claim to one identity over another. Born to a German-Jewish exile, Drexler grew up between Uruguay and Israel,
traveled widely across Latin America, and eventually settled in Spain. Within his music, you can hear touches of milonga and bossa nova
and even Bach, as his lyrics wrangle with notions of nationality and belonging, language, identity and love.

https://ted2017.ted.com/program Page 6 of 21

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014956
