House profile

By retaining control of the House and Senate, with the loss of only a few seats, and winning the White House, Republicans
believe they have a mandate to govern. The potential for a Freedom Caucus challenge to Paul Ryan’s leadership is unlikely
given the party’s strong showing. The path is clear for the Speaker to pursue the policy actions described in the “Better
Way” policy platform developed earlier this year and promoted through the ubiquitous presence of a pamphlet describing
the plan that he used during the campaign and press appearances. That effort generated interest from Trump, who
adapted his tax plan to reflect some of the proposals.

The week following the electionsand prior to Thanksgiving will be focused on internal party organizational issues,
including the election of party leadership, and discussion around Republican conference and Democratic caucusrules and
the makeup of the Steering Committee, which will determine committee assignments. The leadership of the chamber will
be decided in closed-door meetings during this time, with a formal floor vote for Speaker in January. Some Steering
Committee decisions regarding committees are likely to take place after Thanksgiving and to include ratification of
committee chairmanships and Speaker-appointed committee memberships, as well as appointments of membersto vacant
slotson “A” committees (including Ways and Means, Energy and Commerce and Financial Services). Ryan and Democratic
Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) will conduct a negotiation to determine committee ratios, which would be expected to be close
to what they are now.

Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-Ml)

Republican members Boustany and Young ran for Senate ,and Rep. Robert Dold (R-IL) lost his re-election campaign,
leaving three open seats. Republicans under consideration for Committee seats include Reps. Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), Mike
Bishop (R-Ml), Bradley Byrne (R-AL), Jackie Walorski (R-IN) and Andy Barr (R-KY). Longtime Democratic members Charles
Rangel (D-NY) and Jim McDermott (D-WA) are retiring.

Chair John Shimkus(R-IL)/ Greg Walden (R-OR) Ranking Member Frank Pallone (D-NJ}

Rep. Fred Upton (R-Ml) will reach his term limit as chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee and will step down at
the end of the current Congress. Rep. Upton noted that he’s “not planning to” seek a waiver of the term limits. The two
current frontrunners to replace the outgoing chairman include Reps. John Shimkus (R-IL) and Greg Walden (R-OR). Rep.
Shimkus has seniority on the committee, but Walden has also generated party support related to his role serving as
chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee for the past two election cycles. Rep. Joe Barton (R-TX) is
also expected to run for the Chairmanship. The powerful Republican Steering Committee, consisting of Republican
leadership as well as rank-and-file members, will decide in a private meeting who willlead the committeein the 115
Congress. Adding to the leadership shuffle at the Energy and Commerce Committee, the current chairman of the E&C
Subcommittee on Health, Rep. Joe Pitts (R-PA), is retiring at the end of the Congress. Rep. Tim Murphy (R-PA) is under
consideration to replace him.

Chairman Virginia Foxx (R-NC) Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-VA)

Current Chairman John Kline (R-MN) did not seek reelection. He will likely be succeeded as chair of the House Education
and Workforce Committee by Rep. Foxx. She has had a limited role on pension and retirement issues, but has beena
reliable voice for limited government regulation and joined in opposing the Obama Administration’s investment advice
regulations. Where Chairman Kline put pension reform high on the committee’s agenda, Foxx has not signaled a strong
interest in making pension issues a priority.

EY 6 | Election2016

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022378
