responsibility sermons of Reformed Judaism and the Unitarians as well as the 19
Century hymns and high |.Q. apologetics of some Presbyterian and Methodist
clergy, are like near beer. Formally equivalent but without the rush and the delicious
risk and promise of life long addiction.

National opinion polls have found my preference for churchly fireworks in
religious experience quite common. My Charismatic Christian sons are among the
many with a preference for and loving labeling of these kinds of houses of worship
as rock and roll churches. In a recent survey of Americans, 46% of respondents
claim to be twice born, Evangelical Christians. Perhaps unfortunate with respect to
their children’s academic and professional ambitions, 48% do not accept a
Darwinian view of biology. Fifty million American readers are now buying books with
plots taken from the Babylonian prophecies and anticipate the Rapture of Return
with weekly, joyful, mini-rehearsals. They include praying in tongues as the Spirit
moves them like Peter, John, James and the rest of the one hundred and twenty in
the upper room on the day of Pentecost.

Those of us with two or more available cable religious networks can, on any
given Sunday morning, choose a smiling, kind, Proverbs quoting, rational
Presbyterian liturgical stylist. In his seventies, standing tall with a full head of white
hair and in a quietly resonant voice, he delivers a sermon about seven ways to
avoid growing old. His list includes learning new things and continuing to work. His
spiritual proposal was about personal faith, always leaning on the Lord. On another
network, the three hundred pound, restlessly pacing preacher of the Cornerstone
Assembly of God Church of San Antonio, Texas, stood in front of large maps of Iraq
and the Middle East. He preached from Ezekiel about the refleshing of dry bones
and a return of all Jews to Israel. He said that contributions to his church over the
past year helped finance the return of 4000 Russian Jews to Israel. He reiterated
the promise that, when the return was completed, there would be a massive Islamic
attack on Jerusalem and “we will all rise up to Heaven” in an_ ecstatic
disappearance. Jews, as long as they accepted Jesus as their Savior, were
welcomed along on the ride. More then two thousand parishioners erupted into loud

applause along with shouts of “praise Jesus.”

169

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013669
