Economic Research: How Increasing Income Inequality Is Dampening U.S. Economic Growth, And Possible Ways
To Change The Tide

When Ends Don't Meet

A few factors help explain the concentration within so-called market income, which consists of labor income (wages
and salaries, plus employer-paid benefits), capital income (excluding capital gains), business income, capital gains, and

other income--all before government taxes and transfers (see Glossary for full definition).

The first reason is relatively simple: All these sources of income are less evenly distributed now than a few decades
ago. In 1979, the bottom four-fifths of the income spectrum earned nearly 60% of total labor income, about 33% of
income from capital and business, and about 8% from capital gains. By 2007, the bottom four-fifths share of labor
income had dropped to less than 50%, income from capital and business had decreased to 20%, and capital gains fell

to about 5%. In other words, all sources of income were less evenly distributed in 2007 than in 1979 (9).

Some point to the superstar status effect, with professional athletes and movie actors enjoying astronomical
increases in earnings in the past few decades, helped by technological innovation that broadened their reach across

global markets and a winner take all phenomenon.

Another superstar is the super managers. Piketty argues that the primary reason for increased income inequality in
recent decades is the rise of the super managers in both the financial and nonfinancial sectors, finding that about 70%
of the increase in income going to the top 0.1% from 1979 to 2005 came from increasing pay for those professionals
(10). Other studies show that, since the 1990s, deregulation, corporate governance, and a greater reliance on equity

options in executive compensation contributed to the compensation gap (11).

Another explanation of market income concentration is technological innovation. This phenomenon boosted the value
of high-skill workers, enhancing their productivity and growth, while rendering some low-skill workers superfluous. As
automation and production efficiencies have reduced the need for labor in mid-level professional or service jobs,
wages have fallen, and occupations requiring a college degree typically offer double the salary of those requiring a high

school diploma or less.

Other arguments suggest international trade and increased immigration--as well as the decrease in unionization--may
also dampen wages of domestic workers. However, research on the trade effect has been inconclusive, while the
impact from increased immigration on domestic wages has been modest (see Adding Skilled Labor To America's
Melting Pot Would Heat Up U.S. Economic Growth, published March 19, 2014, on RatingsDirect) (12). Meanwhile,
some research has shown that the sharp decline in the unionization in the country, especially in the 1980s, has had a

small but measurable impact on the overall increase in inequality for men over the last few decades (13).

The juxtaposition of slow or stagnant federal minimum wage growth and soaring compensation at the higher end of
the labor income scale is another factor to consider. The minimum wage, which has held at $7.25 an hour since July
2009, has suffered a decline in purchasing power for almost half a century--peaking in 1968, when it was at $1.60, or

just shy of $11 in today's money.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT AUGUST 5, 2014 6

1351366 | 302136118

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025768
