was the case in the abstract manifold picture of bifurcations to limit cycles, some
rats tended to circle their chamber to the left and some to the right and switching
between them was often seen.

The influence of amphetamine and other brain dopamine neurotransmitter-
mediated drug manipulations on directional turning tendencies in rats, mice and
cats were the focus of brain and behavioral research of Professor Stanley Glick of
the University of Massachusetts. The asymmetry of dopamine concentrations in the
two sides of the brain, particularly in the medial prefrontal cortex and the brain
stem’s nucleus accumbens, predicted both the paw preference for pellet reaching
and direction of turning in several studies in rats. These findings were statistically
true over a population of rats, but not necessarily predictive for any single one.
Reminiscent of the conflict between good and evil in our human spiritual analogy,
naturally right turning male rats and left turning female rats, when compared with
the opposite paired group, were greater voluntary ingesters of alcohol placed in
their water bottles.

Splitting as a part of the phenomenology of /imit cycle bifurcations, with
directional implications for good and evil, has neurological support in humans as
well. In the context of contrasting right versus left hemispheric temporal lobe
syndromes, recall that temporal lobe seizures with a right side excitatory focus
leads to the development of the Geshwind Syndrome, a high, softly energetic and
saintly state of spiritual preoccupation and voluminous writings, loving and generous
kindness toward all and the complete disappearance of sexual interest but not
sexual potency. A left temporal lobe excitatory focus leads to the development of
the Kluver-Bucy Syndrome of indiscriminate aggressiveness and hypersexuality.
Experimental simulations of this syndrome in cats lead to them mounting and
attacking living and nonliving things, even chairs. A variety of manipulations of the
symmetry of brain dopamine concentration and dynamics by its characteristic drug,
amphetamine, interact with lateral brain lesions such that we conclude that the
stimulant-induced limit cycle lockup remains a phenomena influenced by drugs, sex,

genetic predisposition and several other experimental conditions. This situation is

154

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013654
