can mention my name with PR Leads to get two months for the price of one.

»PRWeb Press Releases (www.prwebdirect.com) The press release is dead for most purposes, but
using this service has some serious search-engine benefits, such as appearing at the top of related Google
News and Yahoo! News results.

=» ExpertClick ( www.expertclick.com )

This is another secret of the PR pros. Put up an expert profile for media to see, receive an up-to-date
database of top media contacts, and send free press releases to 12,000 journalists, all on one website that
gets more than 5 million hits per month. This is how I got on NBC and ended up developing a prime-
time TV show. It works. Mention my name on the phone, or use “Tim Ferriss $100” online, to get a
$100 discount.

» LIFESTYLE DESIGN IN ACTION

Bon Jour Tim,

I was in Barnes & Noble at the help desk this past Saturday, April 25, waiting for an employee to get a
book for me (Tropic of Cancer if you must know). While I was waiting, I noticed a copy of 4-Hour
Workweek on the counter that someone else had ordered. Not one to be shy, I reached over the counter
and started reading their copy. As you might guess, I had the employee go back and get me my own
copy. Haven’t finished Tropic of Cancer but finished your book ...

... On Monday I got a yes when I asked my boss to work two days remotely per week. I start next
week.

On Monday I also booked the most stunning apartment in Paris for the month of September, at a cost
of half of the rent I pay in Southern California. I plan to increase my remote time now through August so
that September will be an easy ask to leave for remote work. If the answer happens to be no (which I
now doubt), I will be prepared to quit my job.

Now at work on my Income Autopilot project.

Tim: amazing. My life has changed in three days. (Plus, your book was funny as hell.) Thank
you!!! —CINDY FRANKEY

21. There are a few limited exceptions, such as online membership sites that don’t require content
generation, but as a general rule, products require much less maintenance and will get you to your
TMI faster.

22. Muses will provide the time and financial freedom to realize your dreamlines in record time, after
which one can (and often does) start additional companies to change the world or sell.

23. Distributors are sometimes also referred to as “wholesalers,” depending on the industry.

24. It is illegal to control how much someone sells your product for, but you can dictate how much
they advertise it for. This is done by including a Minimum Advertised Pricing (MAP) policy in your
General Terms and Conditions (GTC), which are agreed to automatically when a written wholesale
order is placed. Sample GTC and order forms are available at www.fourhourblog.com.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013906
