go elsewhere — Canada, Britain, Australia — and start successful companies there. And, in fact, there is lots of evidence
this is already happening.

But Bannon is right that this is a brilliant electoral strategy. The idea of greater immigration controls has an undeniable
mainstream appeal. The Democratic Party is too far to the left on many of these issues, embracing concepts such as
sanctuary cities, which only reinforces its image as a party that is more concerned with race, identity and
multiculturalism than the rule of law.

Where Bannon is analytic and historical, Trump is instinctive. But the president appears to see the situation similarly. |
wrote last month that Trump would try to fight the midterm elections on immigration and added, “Do not be surprised if
Trump also picks a few fights with black athletes.” In recent weeks, the president has labeled immigrant gang members
“animals” and suggested that football players who silently protest police violence against blacks should leave the
country.

Bannon thinks Trump is just getting started in nationalizing the election around immigration. He predicted the next
major battle would be over the proposed wall along the U.S.-Mexico border. “The wall is not just totemic. The wall is
absolutely central to his program. ... As we come up on Sept. 30, if [Congress’s] appropriations bill does not include
spending to fully build his wall . . . | believe he will shut down the government.”

Sadly, but not surprisingly, Bannon doesn’t think the fighting and the rancor in the United States are going away any
time soon. The “battle between nationalists and globalists is at the fundamental roots of what America is, what America
will be,” he said. “This is very healthy, and... | think this is going to go on for a long time... . We’ve got a lot more
fighting and a lot more scar tissue to go over.”

You can watch my CNN special The Steve Bannon Interview on Friday at 9 pm ET and Sunday at 10 am ET.

NOTE: This e-mail message is subject to the Dubai World Group disclaimer see http://Awww.dubaiworld.ae/email disclaimer

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030877
