What does this have to do with Mr. Mueller, who was appointed in May 2017 after President Trump
fired Mr. Comey? The inspector general concludes that the pervasive bias “cast a cloud over the FBI
investigations to which these employees were assigned,” including Crossfire. And 1f Crossfire was
politically motivated, then its culmination, the appointment of a special counsel, inherited the taint. All
special-counsel activities—investigations, plea deals, subpoenas, reports, indictments and
convictions—are fruit of a poisonous tree, byproducts of a violation of due process. That Mr. Mueller

and his staff had nothing to do with Crossfire’s origin offers no cure.

When the government deprives a person of life, liberty or property, it is required to use fundamentally
fair processes. The Supreme Court has made clear that when governmental action “shocks the
conscience,” it violates due process. Such conduct includes investigative or prosecutorial efforts that

appear, under the totality of the circumstances, to be motivated by corruption, bias or entrapment.

In U.S. v. Russell (1973), the justices observed: “We may someday be presented with a situation in
which the conduct of law enforcement agents is so outrageous that due process principles would
absolutely bar the government from invoking judicial processes to obtain a conviction.” It didn’t take
long. In Blackledge v. Perry (1974), the court concluded that due process was offended by a
prosecutor’s “realistic likelihood of ‘vindictiveness’ ” that tainted the “very initiation of proceedings.”
In Young v. U.S. ex rel. Vuitton (1987), the justices held that because prosecutors have “power to
employ the full machinery of the state in scrutinizing any given individual . .. we must have assurance
that those who would wield this power will be guided solely by their sense of public responsibility for
the attainment of justice.” Prosecutors must be “disinterested” and make “dispassionate assessments,”
free from any personal bias.

In Williams v. Pennsylvania (2016), the court held that a state judge’s potential bias violated due
process because he had played a role, a quarter-century earlier, in prosecuting the death-row inmate
whose habeas corpus petition he was hearing. The passage of time and involvement of others do not
vitiate the taint but heighten “the need for objective rules preventing the operation of bias that might
otherwise be obscured,” the justices wrote. A single biased individual “might still have an influence
that, while not so visible . . . is nevertheless significant.”

In addition to the numerous anti-Trump messages uncovered by the inspector general, there is a strong
circumstantial case—including personnel, timing, methods and the absence of evidence—that Crossfire

was initiated for political, not national-security, purposes.

It was initiated in defiance of a longstanding Justice Department presumption against investigating
campaigns in an election year. And while impartiality 1s always required, a 2012 memo by then-

Attorney General Eric Holder emphasizes that impartiality is “particularly important in an election

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026275
