Table of Contents

CLEVELAND, OH AREA INSPECTION AND RECONDITIONING CENTER SUBLEASE

In November 2018, Carvana entered into a sublease agreement with DriveTime for an inspection and reconditioning center near Cleveland,
Ohio. Pursuant to the sublease, Carvana temporarily shared space at the IRC until DriveTime vacated the facility in February 2019, at which point we
purchased certain leasehold improvements and equipment at the facility from DriveTime for approximately $4.3 million (which amount represented the
book value of such improvements and equipment net of accumulated depreciation and amortization) and became the sole occupant. We pay a base rent of
$35.0 thousand per month which increases in each extension term. The sublease has an initial term of three years. We have the ability to exercise three
renewal options of five years each. Before DriveTime vacated the property, we paid a monthly rental fee related to our pro rata utilization of space at the
facility plus a pro rata share of the facility’s actual insurance costs and real estate taxes. Our share of facility and shared reconditioning supplies expenses
were calculated based on the actual costs for operating the inspection and reconditioning center and our pro rata share of total reconditioned vehicles and
parking spaces at the IRC in a given month. Our total expenses related to this lease agreement were $29.4 thousand for the year ended December 31, 2018.

NASHVILLE, TN AREA INSPECTION AND RECONDITIONING CENTER LEASE

On February 28, 2019, Carvana assumed a lease from DriveTime of an IRC near Nashville, Tennessee. As part of the agreement, we agreed to
purchase certain leasehold improvements and equipment at the facility from DriveTime for approximately $2.0 million (which amount represented the book
value of such improvements and equipment net of accumulated depreciation and amortization). The term expires on October 31, 2023, subject to our ability
to exercise three renewal options of five years each. DriveTime will remain a partial occupant of the IRC until April 1, 2019 and will not be fully released
from lease obligations by the landlord. Beginning April 1, 2019, Carvana will be the sole occupant of the IRC. Base rent during the current term of the lease
is $21.0 thousand per month and will increase to between $30.0-$31.0 thousand per month in the second half of 2019, depending on the extent of Carvana’s
expansion of leased space, and will further increase during each extension term over the then-current base rent by an amount equal to the percentage
increase in the Consumer Price Index, with a maximum of 15% and a minimum of 10%.

SERVICING AGREEMENT WITH DRIVETIME

In December 2015, we entered into a servicing agreement with DriveTime, wherein DriveTime agreed to perform certain servicing and
administrative functions with respect to automotive finance receivables we own after origination and before sale. In the year ended December 31, 2018,
DriveTime had aggregate earnings of approximately $0.9 million for performing servicing functions for such receivables.

sAS =

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024354
