forms seemed to have been leaked; assuming he’d been sabotaged by his enemies,
Scaramucci blamed Priebus directly, implicitly accusing him of a felony. In fact,
Scaramucci’s financial form was a public document available to all.

That afternoon, Priebus told the president that he understood he should resign and they
should start talking about his replacement.

Then, that evening, there was a small dinner in the White House, with various current
and former Fox News people, including Kimberly Guilfoyle, in attendance—and this was
leaked. Drinking more than usual, trying desperately to contain the details of the
meltdown of his personal life (being linked to Guilfoyle wasn’t going to help his
negotiation with his wife), and wired by events beyond his own circuits’ capacity,
Scaramucci called a reporter at the New Yorker magazine and unloaded.

The resulting article was surreal—so naked in its pain and fury, that for almost twenty-
four hours nobody seemed to be able to quite acknowledge that he had committed public
suicide. The article quoted Scaramucci speaking bluntly about the chief of staff: “Reince
Priebus—if you want to leak something—he’ll be asked to resign very shortly.” Saying
that he had taken his new job “to serve the country” and that he was “not trying to build
my brand,” Scaramucci also took on Steve Bannon: “I’m not Steve Bannon. I’m not trying
to suck my own cock.” (In fact, Bannon learned about the piece when fact-checkers from
the magazine called him for comment about Scaramucci’s accusation that he sucked his
own cock.)

Scaramucci, who had in effect publicly fired Priebus, was behaving so bizarrely that it
wasn’t at all clear who would be the last man standing. Priebus, on the verge of being fired
for so long, realized that he might have agreed to resign too soon. He might have gotten
the chance to fire Scaramucci!

On Friday, as health care repeal cratered in the Senate, Priebus joined the president on
board Air Force One for a trip to New York for a speech. As it happened, so did
Scaramucci, who, avoiding the New Yorker fallout, had said he’d gone to New York to
visit his mother but in fact had been hiding out at the Trump Hotel in Washington. Now
here he was, with his bags (he would indeed now stay in New York and visit his mother),
behaving as though nothing had happened.

On the way back from the trip, Priebus and the president talked on the plane and
discussed the timing of his departure, with the president urging him to do it the right way
and to take his time. “You tell me what works for you,” said Trump. “Let’s make it good.”

Minutes later, Priebus stepped onto the tarmac and an alert on his phone said the
president had just tweeted that there was a new chief of staff, Department of Homeland
Security chief John Kelly, and that Priebus was out.

The Trump presidency was six months old, but the question of who might replace
Priebus had been a topic of discussion almost from day one. Among the string of

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020099
