firms can be naturally slowed by internal directives. Bad outflow such falling CNY
deposits among foreign subsidiaries of China banks can also be managed. However, it is
the inherent speculative and unstable nature of domestic capital flight that we
characterize as ugly flows that poses the greatest risk to the central bank.

Regressions and scenario implications for EM FX

We used a simple regression to quantify the impact of the RMB depreciation on key EM
FX: BRL, RUB, INR, TRY, and ZAR'. We analyzed two cases: 1) Base case —- USD/CNY rises
to 7.25 and market volatility, which we use the VIX as a proxy, is unchanged from its
current level; 2) Risk case - USD/CNY rises to 8.00 and intense RMB depreciation
expectations cause market volatility to rise by three standard deviations. We find:

e The most vulnerable currencies to RMB depreciation are ZAR, RUB and TRY (Chart
58). The impact of RMB depreciation on BRL and INR is small. This is probably due
to stronger idiosyncratic factors for BRL and INR in recent years.

¢ Anincrease in market volatility associated with USD/CNY rising to 8.00 would raise
the depreciation of EM FX by 1ppt (BRL)-11ppt(ZAR) relative to our 7.25 baseline.

« In our base case of USD/CNY rising to 7.25 by end-2017, the market is overpricing
depreciation pressures from the RMB on EM currencies. This partly reflects other
factors have more sway over market expectations at the time of writing, such as
implications of the US elections outcome.

e Inour risk case of USD/CNY rising to 8.00 and high volatility, there is room for
additional depreciation in the ZAR and RUB (Chart 58).

Chart 58: EM FX sensitivity to RMB and market volatility Chart 59: Scenario analysis of EM FX against market pricing
5
0
5
-10 a a a Oo
-10 45
15 20 a
20 ZAR RUB TRY BRL INR
ZAR RUB TRY BRL INR WForecast change vs SDR, % (Volatile markets and USD/CNY at 8.00)
m Forecast change vs SDR, % (Volatile markets and USD/CNY at 8.00) (Forecast change vs SDR, % (Same volatility and USD/CNY at 7.25)
= Forecast change vs SDR, % (Same volatility and USD/CNY at 7.25) Forward implied change by end-2017, %
Source: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, Bloomberg Source: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, Bloomberg

Can bond and equity inflows save the day? Not in the near term

Given the problematic issue of capital outflows and limited efficacy of moderate capital
flows, another solution could be to attract more foreign portfolio inflows into China’s
sizable bond and equity markets. More favorable investment policies geared to overseas
investors investing in China’s interbank bond market reveal a clear policy intention to
open up China’s financial market. As a result, expectations are rising for China to be
included in global bond indices. However, the following key obstacles for index inclusion
remain, although reasons vary depending on the index: 1) lack of full accessibility:
currently qualified investors only include medium and long-term investors while hedge
funds are excluded; 2) insufficient clarification on requirements of fund remittance; 3)
lack of clarification on tax issues; 4) lack of accessibility to onshore FX/rates hedging
tools. Back from our 2016 China Conference, we believe allowing foreign private
investors to access onshore repo, onshore FX swap and forwards would be the next
steps to follow.

 Our dependent variable is the weekly changes of SDR/EM; our independent variables are the weekly changes in the
SDR/EUR, SDR/CNY, SDR/USD and the VIX index, and a constant. Natural logarithms were taken for all variables and our
sample period is Jan’14-Nov’16, when the start of the RMB depreciation trend. We base our currencies against the SDR
to define their value (See Assessing China’s Exchange Rate Regime, Frankel and Wei (2007) for a detailed explanation.).
To compute the forecast change in each currency, we use our global FX forecasts to obtain our independent variables.

34 Global Rates, FX & EM 2017 Year Ahead | 16 November 2016 Bankof America
Merrill Lynch

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014764
