Michael Douglas and Kirk Douglas

Wendi Deng Murdoch

Alfre Woodard hosted a down and
dirty girls night out in a rented house
above Sunset for Viola Davis and Octavia
Spencer.

Universal honcho Ron Meyer hosted a
civilized private buffet at his Malibu home
for Graydon Carter with Tom Cruise,
Leonardo DiCaprio, Barbra Streisand,
Tom Hanks and Michael Douglas.

Stunning socialite Betsey Bloomingdale
gave a seated dinner at her Holmby Hills
home for best friends Nancy Reagan,
Wendy Stark, Bob Colacello, Joan
Collins and fashion icon Lynn Wyatt.

62 | AVENUE MAGAZINE « APRIL 2012

Tobias Meyer, auctioneer for Sotheby’s
and art dealer Mark Fletcher hosted
an open house at their Mulholland
Drive home for American avant-garde
photographer Terry Richardson. This is
the only pre-Oscar party where a guest
dropped his pants and mooned the red
carpet and Terry signed a fans breast.
Art collectors Bill and Maria Bell, Todd
Eberle, rock singer Jack Donahue and
Francesco Clemente schmoozed.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24
At the BHH I ran into David Heyman,

Fran Leibowitz

English producer of the Harry Potter
franchise who was honored at the
Publicists Awards lunch at The Beverly
Hilton. “Motion Picture Showman of the
Year” was the consolation prize for being
snubbed by the Academy for visualizing
a publishing miracle for children around
the world.

“Nobbs” whisked me off to the
British Film Reception hosted by
Jeremy Hunt, UK Secretary of State for
Culture and Olympics and the British
Consul-General Dame Barbara Hay,
in her Hancock Park residence. Upon
introduction, I blurted out that my friend
Lord Astor was interested in having
L.A. people get to know his son-in-law,
Prime Minister David Cameron. As an
appointed diplomat she was horrified by
my indiscretion and turned to greet the
next American idiot. I was just making
conversation.

Daldry told Sony’s Sir Howard
Stringer and astute film CEO Michael
Lynton, Kenneth Branagh, Janet McTeer
and Gary Oldman that he, as executive
producer of the Olympics, was headed
back to London to oversee special events,
including the opening ceremony, directed
by Danny Boyle. Victoria Beckham

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013456
