KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP

AND AFFILIATED PARTNERSHIPS

777 South Figueroa Street

Los Angeles, California 90017
Kenneth W. Starr :

To Call Writer Directly: FP Facsimile:
www.kirkland.com Dir. Fax:
June 19, 2008
John Roth, Esq.

Principal Associate Deputy Attorney General
Office of the Deputy Attorney General
United States Department of Justice

950 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Room 4115
Washington, D.C. 20530

Dear Mr. Roth:

I again want to thank you for this opportunity to explain why we believe that a federal
prosecution of Jeffrey Epstein is unwarranted. I appreciate your having informed us that you
already have our May 19 and May 27 communications to the Deputy Attorney General, as well
as our prior written submissions to CEOS and to the Southern District of Florida.

In light of the significant volume of our prior submissions and to facilitate your review,
we have drafted four supplemental submissions that will provide a roadmap for your
investigation of this matter. Given the bulk of these documents and their appended supporting
attachments, you will receive this packet by messenger tomorrow. A brief description of each of
the four submissions follows. First, I have included a succinct summary of the facts, law and
policy issues at hand. This document sets forth a basic overview of the issues and summarizes
our principal contentions as to why federal prosecution of this matter is neither appropriate nor
warranted,

The three other submissions include: a summary of the irregularities and misconduct that
occurred during the federal investigation; a letter from former CEOS attorney Stephanie Thacker
that responds to CEOS’s assessment of its limited review of Mr. Epstein’s case; and a point-by-
point rebuttal to First Assistant United States Attorney Jeffrey Sloman’s recent letter which we
believe contains factual inaccuracies typical of our correspondence from the United States
Attorney’s Office in Miami (the “USAO”). Also, for your reference, the package you receive
tomorrow will contain a binder including all documentation to which we refer in our
submissions. Finally, we will be providing a detailed checklist of each submission or substantive
communication to the USAO. Our intention is that you have copies of each such document to
enhance your review. If there are any that you have not received from the USAO or CEOS,
please advise and we will fedex them to you without delay.

Chicago Hong Kong London Munich New York San Francisco Washington, D.C.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012136
