12/8/2015

Prince Andrew and girl, 17, who sex offender friend flew to Britain to meet him | Daily Mail Online

First meeting: Prince Andrew puts his arms around 17-year-old Virginia, centre

On one of those occasions Virginia Roberts was subsequently paid $15,000 (£9,400). Her shocking
account of her four years as Epstein’s personal masseuse is supported by court documents, an
eyewitness, photographs and flight details of Epstein’s private jets.

One picture, said to have been taken by Epstein during Andrew’s first encounter with the girl in
March 2001 and published today by The Mail on Sunday, shows the Prince with his arm around her
waist.

This is not the first time the Duke of York’s judgment and choice of associates have been
questioned. He appears to relish the company of super-rich oil billionaires from the Middle East,
North Africa and the former Soviet Union.

The peculiar sale of his former marital home to a Kazakh businessman for £15 million after it had
languished unsold for five years at £12 million has never been satisfactorily explained.

In the recent leak of American diplomatic cables it was revealed that he had criticised an official
corruption investigation into the huge Al-Yamamah arms deal between Britain and Saudi Arabia,
while he is also said to be close to Saif Al-Islam Gaddafi, son of the beleaguered Libyan president,
and may have had a role in the early release of Lockerbie bomber Abdelbaset Al Megrahi.

While on the streets, |
slept with men for
money. | was a
paedophile's dream

But it is Andrew's friendship with Epstein, whom
he has known since at least 2000, and with
Epstein’s confidante Ghislaine Maxwell, daughter
of the late disgraced newspaper baron Robert
Maxwell, that gives most concern.

He was first seen with the pair on holiday in
Thailand, and was pictured cavorting with
Ghislaine at a Halloween fetishthemed party in
Manhattan.

The photograph that appeared last weekend shows the prince strolling through Central Park with
58-year-old Epstein. Andrew was said to have spent four days at his New York mansion in
December, when he was joined by other distinguished guests, including Woody Allen, at a dinner.

It is by no means the first New York soiree Andrew has attended as Epstein’s guest.

A lengthy profile of the financier in Vanity Fair magazine some years ago reported that Andrew was
a guest at a cocktail party thrown by Epstein and Maxwell packed with young Russian models.
‘Some guests were horrified,’ said the article’s author, Vicky Ward.

It should not be forgotten that Epstein is a registered sex offender after recently completing his
sentence for offences relating to child prostitution.

b announce they are
expecting a baby boy -
after trying to get
pregnant for more than
a year

> Back together? Elin
Nordegren, 35, cuddles
up to ex Chris Cline, 57,
at Marchesa shoe
launch... over one year
after their break-up
Tiger Woods' ex wife

b'l so do not know how
to deal with this': Justin
Bieber's mystery
Instagram girl responds
after singer's plea to
find out her identity

He found her online

> 'Home is where the
heart is': Bethenny
Frankel offers a look
inside her cramped
$4.2M NYC bachelorette
pad as she gets into
Christmas spirit

» EXCLUSIVE: Kristin
Cavallari's brother was
jobless ‘alcoholic’ who
was kicked out by his
father before crashing
his car and going
missing in Utah desert

» From the couple who
has everything to the
discerning fashionista,
what to get the most
hard-to-please people
on your gift list
Sponsored

» Daddy's girl! Mark
Zuckerberg releases
touching photo with
baby Maxima as he
reveals ‘everyone is
doing great’

Facebook founder is dad

> Thigh's the limit!
Caitlyn Jenner, 66, goes
bare-legged in very
short mini dress while
filming scenes for
reality show with Candis
Cayne

Former Olympian is 66

> ‘I'm not pregnant, just
happy! Tia Mowry hits
back at body shaming’
Instagram trolls who
criticized her for 15lb
weight gain

Famed for Sister, Sister

FREE SHIPPING
FREE RETURNS
ALL THETIME,

NORDSTROM

‘Stop!’ Andy Roddick
caught redhanded as he
secretly films wife
Brooklyn Decker

http:/Awww.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-1361039/Prince-Andrew-girl- 17-sex-offender-friend-flew-Britain-meet-him.htm|

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015644

2/29
