rewarding experiences. Some actions have benign or even beneficial consequences for the welfare of
others, while others have malignant and costly consequences.

Exquisite studies pioneered by the American cognitive neuroscientist Kent Berridge have
uncovered the core elements of pleasure, including distinctive systems of wanting, liking and learning.
We, and hundreds of other species, often want things we like, and like things we want. This is, obviously,
an adaptive coupling. Thanks to experiments at the level of genes, neurons, and behavior, we can tease
apart these three systems. Thanks to naturally occurring situations, we can watch these systems come
unglued over the course of addictions, leading to the paradoxical and maladaptive situation of wanting
more and more, but liking the experience less and less. Addictions, as archetypal examples of excess,
provide a model for thinking about evil and its trademark signature of excessive harm.

The paradoxical decoupling between wanting and liking is seen most clearly in studies of obesity
in rats and humans, where individuals develop skyrocketing desires for food, but fail to experience
comparable pleasure from eating. By definition, those who become obese are prone to eat in excess. One
reason they do is because eating, or even seeing images of food, no longer delivers the same honey hit to
the brain as in their pre-obesity days. The reward system turns off when we turn to excess. This is
adaptive because nothing in excess is good. But because the wanting system runs independently, the
adaptive response by the liking system has the unfortunate consequence of making us want more even
though we enjoy it less. The proposal I develop in this book is that the same process is involved in evil,
especially its expression of excessive harm. It is a process that is aided by denial.

Everyone engages in denial, negating certain aspects of reality in order to manage painful
experiences or put forward a more powerful image. But like desire, denial has both beneficial and costly
consequences for self and others. When we listen to the news and hear of human rights violations across
the globe, we often hide our heads in the sand, plug our ears, and carry on with our lives as if all is okay
on planet Earth. When doctors have to engage in slicing into human flesh to perform surgery, they turn
off their compassion for humanity, treating the body as a mechanical device, at least until the surgery is
over, and the patient awakes, speaks and smiles. When we confront a challenging opponent in an athletic
competition or military confrontation, we often pump ourselves up, tricking our psychology into believing
that we are better than we are. Denial turns down the heat of emotion, allowing a cooler approach to
decision making and action. But doctors in denial concerning the moral worth of others can be convinced
to carry out heinous operations for the “good” of science or the purity of their group, and military leaders
in denial of an opponent’s strength can lead their soldiers to annihilation. Individuals in denial can reject
different aspects of reality in the service of reward, whether it is personal gain, avoiding pain, or enabling

the infliction of pain on others.

Hauser Prologue. Evilution 15

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012761
