and anti-CIA crony, and the coauthor of Flynn’s book, whose daughter now worked for
Flynn—advised Flynn that he ought not to accept fees from Russia or the larger
“consulting” assignments from Turkey.

It was in fact the sort of carelessness that almost everyone in Trump’s world, including
the president and his family, was guilty of. They lived with parallel realities in which,
while proceeding with a presidential campaign, they also had to live in a vastly more
likely world—rather a certain world—in which Donald Trump would never be president.
Hence, business as usual.

In early February, an Obama administration lawyer friendly with Sally Yates remarked
with some relish and considerable accuracy: “It certainly is an odd circumstance if you
live your life without regard for being elected and then get elected—and quite an
opportunity for your enemies.”

In this, there was not only the Russian cloud hanging over the administration, but a
sense that the intelligence community so distrusted Flynn, and so blamed its bad blood
with Trump on him, that Flynn was the target here. Within the White House there was
even a feeling that a soft trade was being implicitly offered: Flynn for the goodwill of the
intelligence community.

At the same time, in what some thought a direct result of the president’s rage over the
Russia insinuations—particularly the insinuation about the golden shower—the president
seemed to bond even more strongly with Flynn, assuring his National Security Advisor
over and over again that he had his back, that the Russia accusations, those related both to
Flynn and to himself, were “garbage.” After Flynn’s dismissal, a narrative describing
Trump’s increasing doubts about his adviser would be offered to the press, but in fact the
opposite was true: the more doubts gathered around Flynn, the more certain the president
became that Flynn was his all-important ally.

OOK Ok

The final or deadliest leak during Michael Flynn’s brief tenure is as likely to have come
from the National Security Advisor’s antagonists inside the White House as from the
Justice Department.

On Wednesday, February 8, the Washington Post’s Karen DeYoung came to visit Flynn
for what was billed as an off-the-record interview. They met not in his office but in the
most ornate room in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building—the same room where
Japanese diplomats waited to meet with Secretary of State Cordell Hull as he learned of
the attack on Pearl Harbor.

To all outward appearances, it was an uneventful background interview, and DeYoung,
Columbo-like in her affect, aroused no suspicions when she broached the de rigueur
question: “My colleagues asked me to ask you this: Did you talk to the Russians about
sanctions?”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019963
