4.4 Hybrid Cognitive Architectures 75

reasoning methods is powerful, but the overall cognitive architecture is simplistic compared
to other systems and seems focused more on problem-solving than on the broader problem
of intelligent agent control.

e Shruti [SA93] is a fascinating biologically-inspired model of human reflexive inference,
which represents in connectionist architecture relations, types, entities and causal rules
using focal-clusters. However, much like Hofstadter’s earlier Copycat architecture [Hof95],
Shruti seems more interesting as a prototype exploration of ideas than as a practical AGI
system; at least, after a significant time of development it has not proved significantly
effective in any applications

e James Albus’s 4D/RCS robotics architecture shares a great deal with some of the emer-
gentist architectures discussed above, e.g. it has the same hierarchical pattern recognition
structure as DeSTIN and HTM, and the same three cross-connected hierarchies as DeSTIN,
and shares with the developmental robotics architectures a focus on real-time adaptation to
the structure of the world. However, 4D/RCS is not foundationally learning-based but relies
on hard-wired architecture and algorithms, intended to mimic the qualitative structure of
relevant parts of the brain (and intended to be augmented by learning, which differentiates
it from emergentist approaches.

As our own CogPrime approach is a hybrid architecture, it will come as no surprise that
we believe several of the existing hybrid architectures are fundamentally going in the right
direction. However, nearly all the existing hybrid architectures have severe shortcomings which
we feel will prevent them from achieving robust humanlike AGI.

Many of the hybrid architectures are in essence “multiple, disparate algorithms carrying out
separate functions, encapsulated in black boxes and communicating results with each other.”
For instance, PolyScheme, ACT-R and CLARION all display this “modularity” property to a
significant extent. These architectures lack the rich, real-time interaction between the internal
dynamics of various memory and learning processes that we believe is critical to achieving
humanlike general intelligence using realistic computational resources. On the other hand, those
architectures that feature richer integration — such as DUAL, Shruti, LIDA and MicroPsi— have
the flaw of relying (at least in their current versions) on overly simplistic learning algorithms,
which drastically limits their scalability.

It does seem plausible to us that some of these hybrid architectures could be dramatically
extended or modified so as to produce humanlike general intelligence. For instance, one could
replace LIDA’s learning algorithms with others that interrelate with each other in a nuanced
synergetic way; or one could replace MicroPsi’s simple learning and reasoning methods with
much more powerful and scalable ones acting on the same data structures. However, making
these changes would dramatically alter the cognitive architectures in question on multiple levels.

4.4.1 Neural versus Symbolic; Global versus Local

The “symbolic versus emergentist” dichotomy that we have used to structure our review of cogni-
tive architectures is not absolute nor fully precisely defined; it is more of a heuristic distinction.
In this section, before plunging into the details of particular hybrid cognitive architectures, we
review two other related dichotomies that are useful for understanding hybrid systems: neural
versus symbolic systems, and globalist versus localist knowledge representation.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012991
