have been filed by any of his accusers” — although many have tried to serve him including
lawyers representing Epstein’s victims, Brunel continues to hide behind his French citizenship to
prevent depositions. “Trawling for 5’11” underage teenagers to work for his agency, MC2, or
anyone else who requests, Brunel is free to scout for very young girls without limitations.” Given
his citizenship he also successfully avoided deposition in Epstein’s sex related cases.

Like so many other reporters who have tried to report his side of the story when Jezebel
contacted Brunel, “he did not respond to our interview request.” According to Jezebel:

we spoke to a number of people who worked with his agency and while MC2 isn’t considered a
major industry player, it isn’t exactly bottom-shelf, either... Brunel isn’t involved with the
business on a day-to-day basis, although he owns an 85 percent stake in MC2. Instead, he does
scouting for the agency and takes care of the international relations with other agencies, reports
one source. Scouts scour the world for unrepresented teenage girls who could make it as models.
They work largely unsupervised and are generally paid a headhunting fee for every girl an
agency signs. Even when affiliated with an agency, as Brunel obviously is with MC2, scouts
operate mostly independently and with little oversight. The company blog refers to Brunel as a
‘scouting tsunami’ and MC2 is fairly well known for the strength of its international scouting.

Model, Michael Gross’s 1995 book, describes Brunel’s activities in Paris from the late 1970s
onwards, when he worked for, and eventually owned, the modeling agency Karin. “Jean-Luc is
considered a danger,” says Jér6me Bonnouvrier. “Owning Karin was a dream for a playboy. His
problem is that he knows exactly what girls in trouble are looking for. He’s always been on the
edge of the system.”

John Casablancas, founder of Elite modeling agency said:

I really despise Jean-Luc as a human being for the way he’s cheapened the business. There is no
justice. This is a guy who should be behind bars. There was a little group, Jean-Luc, Patrick
Gilles, and Varsano. They were very well known in Paris for roaming the clubs. They would
invite girls and put drugs in their drinks. Everybody knew they were creeps.” Casablancas was a
professional rival who was pushed out of his agency for questionable concerns.

Katie Ford human trafficking abolitionist and Eileen Ford’s daughter, talked to the Wall Street
Journalmagazine. In that story “A Model Trade Union,” Ford describes herself as a “roving
ambassador” to help stop human trafficking. Ford sold her stake in the family business in 2007 to
the private equity firm Stone Tower Equity. “In her new life as a nearly full-time, unpaid, roving
ambassador for the cause her job is an outgrowth of her former work, rather than a repudiation of
it, or an atonement.

Her interest in human trafficking began when a representative of the United Nations called to ask
if she would participate in a women’s leadership group that was studying the issue of trafficking.
“] said, ‘] can’t come talk about it, because I don’t know anything about it!’” Ford recalls. “But I
went, and after two hours, I knew why I was there. The way people traffic across borders is
parallel to the way we recruit models, According to Ford “the target age is 14 to 24, and so it’s

4]

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011952
