BIOLOGY

MEDICINE

Their Giant Steps to a Cure

Battling arareformofmuscular dystrophy,
afamily finds anactivistleader, and hope

BY JUDE ISABELLA

N 2007, AT HER high school graduation in Ques-
| nel, British Columbia, Ivana Topic stood at the top

of the auditorium stairs, her long gown skimming
~~ the floor, her dark brown hair spilling over her
shoulders. She had on ridiculously high heels. As she
eased down the stairs, very slowly, she hung on to her
date. She was afraid her knees would collapse, as her
muscles were weak for her age.

From the audience, Ivana’s mother, Marijana,
watched her daughter’s every step, silently panicking
and breaking into a sweat. She knew Ivana could eas-
ily tumble down the stairs and break a limb. The year
before, Ivana had been diagnosed with muscular dys-
trophy, an mcurable genetic disease characterized by
progressive weakening of the muscles. Antonia, Ivana’s
younger sister by five years, was later diagnosed with
the same disease.

Around the time of Ivana’s graduation, the Top-
ics, an unassuming family originally from Croatia, had
begun adjusting their lives as best they could, inquiring

about ramps everywhere they went, avoiding walking
in snow and sleet. For years, Ivana and Antonia had
been subjected to endless medical tests. In 2010, they
learned they had a rare form of muscular dystrophy,
calpainopathy, which affects about 1 in 200,000 peo-
ple. The diagnosis meant both would likely be bound to
wheelchairs while they were still young women.

Today, Ivana is 24. In May, she graduated from col-
lege with a bachelor’s degree in finance and general
business. She still walks up stairs in her house; her
bedroom 1s upstairs. “I’m definitely a fighter, and will
try and walk for as long as I can,” she says. “When I
notice I’m falling a lot, when I need help a lot, I will
go ina chair.”

Muscular dystrophy treatment 1s limited to only pal-
liattve medications and therapies. Ivana herself prac-
tices yoga. While researchers worldwide are working
on lasting cures for muscular dystrophy (funded in part
by the famous Jerry Lewis Telethons), rare forms like
calpainopathy are “orphans,” with only a fraction of

ILLUSTRATIONS BY ELLEN WEINSTEIN

31

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015491
