OQ},

QO
Ho
els)

CHAPTERV_ Global Cannabis Regulation

International partnerships and business plans are being formed as countries increasingly allow
importation and exportation of cannabis products and more companies recognize the global potential
of the cannabis industry. Canadian companies are cultivating cannabis in South America and sup-
plying markets in Europe, Australian companies are forming research partnerships with producers in
Israel, and European companies are securing cannabis-related patents in the United States. And, as
discussed in more detail in Chapter VII, Capital Markets for Cannabis Companies, more cross-border
investment activity is taking place as industry participants position for the expected further opening of
global cannabis markets.

Despite the growing recognition of the potential medical value of cannabis, the current legalization
momentum and the increasingly international scope of cannabis business, the movement of products
and flow of capital required for a truly global industry continue to be inhibited by incongruous laws,
regulations and international treaties. For example, concerns about violating U.S. federal banking and
anti-money laundering regulations have caused certain U.S. banks to refuse to be connected to the
cannabis industry, avoiding even indirect association with cannabis activity that is legal where con-
ducted. In one instance, a number of U.S. banks threatened to cease business with certain Uruguayan
banks that serviced pharmacies legally distributing recreational cannabis within Uruguay. In turn, those
Uruguayan banks effectively forced the pharmacies to stop participating in Uruguay’s cannabis market.
(In a similar way, lack of access to the U.S. federal banking system continues to inhibit growth of the
domestic cannabis industry.) Until the largest economies in the world more fully embrace cannabis, we
must stop short of calling cannabis a truly global industry. However, we believe that the legalization
momentum will continue worldwide.

= United Nations Conventions

International regulation of cannabis, cannabis derivatives and many other narcotic, psychotropic and
similar substances is addressed primarily by three international treaties (Conventions) adopted through
the United Nations (UN) between 1961 and 1988.

The Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961 (1961 Convention) addresses regulation of
the cannabis plant, the coca flower and the opium poppy; certain of their derivatives (such as hash-
ish, cocaine and heroin, respectively); and any other substance found in accordance with the 1961
Convention to be “liable to similar abuse and productive of similar ill effects.” The 1961 Convention
establishes four schedules of substances subject to increasingly strict controls in the following order:
Schedule HI, Schedule II, Schedule I and Schedule IV. Schedule IV substances (the most strictly con-
trolled) are those Schedule I substances found to be particularly liable to abuse and to produce ill effects
and for which such liability is not offset by substantial therapeutic advantages. Cannabis, cannabis
resin, and extracts and tinctures of cannabis are included on Schedule I; cannabis and cannabis resin
are also included on Schedule IV.

The Convention on Psychotropic Substances of 1971 (1971 Convention) addresses regulation of
certain “psychotropic” substances, which the Convention recognizes generally as substances that may
stimulate or depress the central nervous system causing “hallucinations or disturbances in motor func-

© 2017 Ackrell Capital, LLC | Member FINRA/SIPC 93

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024729
