NAUTIL.US

TEXT SETS

‘““Wecan be as dark as

you want or.as green

Boyayian.

chemical reactors. One turns the syngas into methanol.
The next makes methanol into a molecule known as
dimethyl ether, or DME in chemist-speak. In the third
reactor, catalysts known as zeolites knit DME into gas-
oline, in the most expensive and energy-intensive part
of the process. The fourth reactor eliminates some of
the unwanted byproducts that cause the resulting fuel
to congeal at low temperatures.

The key is the zeolites, porous minerals made up of
aluminum, silicon, and oxygen that allow the desired
chemical reactions to take place. Both Primus and a
conventional oil refinery employ zeolites to manipu-
late hydrocarbons. At an oil refinery, these catalysts
help crack and sort hydrocarbons broken down from
crude oil. At Primus, heat and pressure allow zeolites
to build gasoline hydrocarbons from the smaller mol-
ecules of syngas. Such “catalysts are a bit of a dark art,”
says Boyayian. He spars with Fang over whether or not
the company will one day make their own. Fang does
not accept Boyayian’s need for secrecy, and would be

as you want,” says

more than happy to reveal all those dark arts—a pros-
pect that makes the affable Boyayian nervous and tight-
lipped. For now, the fledgling company buys the neces-
sary catalysts off the shelf and must sign agreements
not to examine these zeolites too closely.

Using different catalysts mm the reactors, Fang notes,
the company could spit out diesel or jet fuel instead
of gasoline. And for every 100 kilograms of syngas,
he says, Primus can make 30 kilograms of gasoline or
more, using a continuous looping system within the
machine that eliminates the need for wasting energy
to convert gases to liquids along the way. Little red
containers of Fang-made gasoline record its charac-
teristics, scrawled on masking tape affixed to the sides:
low vapor pressure, a higher-than-average octane con-
tent of around 93, and a favorable absence of sulfur
or benzene. Oil prices have been rising over the last
month, and are currently at more than $100 per barrel;
the company estimates that its gasoline costs as Irttle
as that derived from oil at $65 per barrel—and could

25

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015485
