peace with all four neighboring Arab states. And it can be argued
now that Assad may see negotiations with Israel as a way to climb
back from the pariah status he is earning, making him at this juncture
truly open to a new peace process.

Such thinking, whether in Jerusalem or the White House, is foolish
and even grotesque. There is no possibility that Assad would
negotiate seriously and that an agreement could be attained. He is
now clinging desperately to power, and his only true allies are Iran
and Hezbollah. Yet Israel’s (and, one hopes, our own) key
precondition to any agreement would necessarily be a clean break in
those relationships: an end to the Syrian alliance with Hezbollah and
Iran. Otherwise Israel would be giving the Golan, in effect, to Iran—a
suicidal act. No Israeli government would do it, which suggests that
negotiations with Assad would have no purpose.

Assad may indeed be open to commencing a negotiation as a means
to escape international isolation, but that’s all the more reason not to
give it to him. Prime Minister Ehud Olmert’s 2008 talks with Syria
(via Turkey) allowed Syria to escape the partial isolation the United
States had imposed on it in that decade, with zero gain for Israel. This
is not an experiment worth repeating, for the Assad regime is today
even more despicable than it was three years ago.

To react to the murders now taking place all over Syria by embracing
the Assad regime would be morally indefensible. Whether Assad can
be overthrown soon by the people of Syria is a fair question to ask.
Will the army stay with him, or will Sunni units rebel? Will the Sunni
business elites turn against him? How long can the regime survive?
We do not yet know the answers. But surely we must avoid any step
that could help Assad, rehabilitate his regime, or undermine the
courageous struggle of peaceful demonstrators in the streets of Syria.
The peace agreements that Israel signed with Egypt and Jordan were
real achievements, but there will be no such agreements with the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031837
