e This is what I think a successful third-party candidate looks like; a dream third party ticket would
start off with enough name ID to be an instant contender. Building the name ID to run nationally is
just too long and expensive of a process to accomplish in the 28 months until the next presidential
election. We can’t beat a celebrity without some celebrity of our own, whether from politics,
sports, business, or entertainment. Instantaneous name ID is so crucial because the candidate must
start out in striking distance in any three-way poll against Trump and a fill-in-the-blank
Democratic flavor-of-the day candidate. The media and political class will predetermine

irrelevance otherwise.

e A Democrat-leaning candidate would have to top the ideal third-party ticket. We need someone
with a shot at snaking a plurality of the vote in the blue states Hillary Clinton won (227 electoral
votes), but moderate enough to win a plurality in some combination of Trump states like Florida,
Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Michigan (another 119 votes). The right candidate may even to put
North Carolina, Ohio, Indiana in play for a centrist bi-partisan ticket as well (totaling an electoral
sweep of 464 elector votes). A right leaning candidate would meet the same fate as a primary
challenger to Trump — for all intents and purposes we need to assume that 36% of voters won’t be
cleaved from Trump under any circumstances and run to win around them. The deep red states

would be off the table entirely.

e With the Trump reality show airing daily, voters are now expecting to take their politics with a side
of entertainment. Heretofore, ratings will matter no matter how dry the policy topic. Surely
Stephen Colbert would gladly sacrifice his executive producer Chris Licht to produce a daily
comedic segment of this dream candidate interviewing Americans in truck stops and McDonald’s
across the country. A few of the “Saturday Night Live” script writers could certainly be enticed to
disguise serious debates as informative amusement. Any candidate must be committed to a near
daily cadence of high quality, compelling video production. It will be especially crucial to keep
the voters’ attention during what will be a raucous Democratic primary season. Rules governing
access to the general election debate stage dictate that a candidate enjoy support of at least 15% of

voters in the months leading up to the general election.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026300
