further rate cuts and lowered the deposit rate to
-0.40%. Second, it increased the size of its asset
purchase program from €60 billion to €80 billion
per month, effectively buying more Eurozone
bonds each year than are actually issued (see
Exhibit 90). Finally, it continued to limit its buying
to bonds with yields above the deposit rate,

which concentrated its purchases toward long-
maturity bonds.

These measures created an extreme scarcity
effect in long-term German bunds, as investors
scrambled to buy today for fear of even lower
interest rates tomorrow. In response, German
10-year rates fell to an all-time low of -18 basis
points in July of 2016. During these same summer
months, all German government bonds with less
than a 15-year maturity offered negative yields.

However, monetary policy does not operate in
a vacuum. With negative interest rates impairing
the profitability of the European banking system,
the ECB has already begun to alter its policy mix.
At its December 2016 meeting, the ECB reversed
the increase in asset purchases mentioned above,
targeting €60 billion per month for the upcoming
March—December 2017 period. Moreover, it lifted
the restriction on purchasing bonds with yields
below the deposit rate, alleviating the scarcity
premium attached to long-maturity bonds meeting
this criterion. While these adjustments are well
short of QE “tapering,” they have shifted the
market focus toward the eventual end of asset
purchases and the timing of the first ECB rate
hike—currently priced for late 2018.

With less ECB policy pressure on long-maturity
bonds, coupled with continued above-trend
Eurozone growth and some further normalization
in global term premiums, we expect 10-year bund
yields to increase to 0.5-1.0% by the end of 2017.
While overall peripheral bond spreads should be
mostly range-bound in 2017, political woes in
Italy and France pose upside risks to the spreads of
those countries.

In the UK, we expect gilt yields to reach 1.5-
2.25%. Here, persistently high headline inflation
induced by the depreciation of sterling and a
less-than-feared economic drag from Brexit thus
far could encourage the BOE to unwind a portion
of the preemptive easing it deployed in response to
the surprise referendum outcome.

Given this outlook and today’s still depressed
bond yields, we remain underweight UK and
Eurozone government bonds for European

Exhibit 90: European Government Bond Issuance
and ECB Purchases
ECB buying is outpacing net issuance of Eurozone bonds.

€bn
400 MNet Issuance MECB Purchases Net Issuance Including ECB Purchases

200

°

-200 5

-600

-800

2016 2017

Data as of December 31, 2016.
Source: Investment Strategy Group, JP Morgan.

investors. After all, just a 2 basis point increase in
German 10-year bund yields generates a capital
loss sufficient to offset an entire year of income.
That said, we should not confuse an underweight
with a zero weighting, as European clients should
retain some exposure to German bunds and other
high-quality Eurozone bonds in the “sleep-well”
portion of their portfolios. These high-quality
bonds would provide an attractive hedge in the
event of a Eurozone recession or the return of
deflationary concerns.

Emerging Market Local Debt

Last year’s 10% return for emerging market local
debt (EMLD) provided some solace to those who
have suffered through nearly three years of losses
totaling more than 30%. But investors had to
endure considerable volatility to realize this gain,
as returns fluctuated between -4% and +18% in
2016. In fact, the asset class lost roughly 5% in just
the last two months of the year.

This last point is important, since many of the
tailwinds that drove EMLD’s strong returns in the
first half of 2016 reversed toward year-end and are
likely to impact the asset class again in 2017. Here,
we refer specifically to the resumption of Federal
Reserve rate hikes, renewed US dollar appreciation
and a resumption of Chinese renminbi depreciation
against the dollar. Just as falling global interest
rates helped the asset class for the first part of
2016, so too should the rising rates we expect

72, | Goldman Sachs | JANUARY 2017

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014605
