] have shown poor judgment in the past, and have paid a heavy price for those
mistakes. I had hoped to move forward with my science philanthropy and helping
those less privileged than myself. Then came Scott Rothstein.

Scott Rothstein was the senior partner of RRA. He is currently serving a 50 -year
prison sentence for perpetrating the largest fraud in South Florida’s history. He
decided that sex allegations made against me could be used to fleece hundreds of
investors out of hundreds of millions of dollars. He recruited Brad Edwards, a
smalltime Ft. Lauderdale attorney who had access to some of the women on the
government list. eo stetr forged Judges signatures, bate behind attorney client
privilege, secrecty of legal docu, work product, cover letter; giving illegal
investigative activity the protection normally reserved for lawyers and their
legitimate clients. He falsely told investors that I had settled cases with him for
hundreds of millions of dollars, but the women wanted their money right away. If
they gave him 30 million dollars now, he could give part of it to the women who
wanted to remain anonymous, they would go off into the sunset with their money,
and the full payment would be made to the investors. Investors that would be
getting 50- 100% return on their money for taking advantage of the same women
who allegedly had come in contact with me. Bill Schere, an attorney in Broward, has
filed 147 complaints against Scott Rothstein and the firm.

The attorney for the women, aware that I would be loathe in involve innocent
friends in problems that were strictly of my own making, subpoenaed names and
tried to smear any friend or mine whose name appeared in print previously. They
contacted Bill Clinton, Donald Trump, David Copperfield; innocent bystanders with
no knowledge of any of my actions whatsoever. | settled the cases rather than
forcing both the women and others to be subject to a public questioning of their
lives.

It appears that the Rothstein firm had continuing help from the government
throughout their civil litigations. Emails re as aresult of a recent subpoena
show descriptions such as, “received info from current FBI agents”.

The former Rothstein partners subpoenaed my attorney for all correspondence
regarding my plea with the US attorney. Though highly unusual, the government
sided with the former Rothstein partners and agreed we needed to produce all the
correspondence between the government and my attorneys.

During the civil deposition of my former houseman, Alfredo Rodriguez, attended by
a new attorney from the Rothstein firm, whose name appears on the record as CARA
Holmes, [also appears as Carolyn Holmes, also appears as Kara Holmes], the
houseman allegedly said that he had stolen a book from my house with telephone
numbers in it that the government wanted. This was in July of 2009. I believe that

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025543
