Table of Contents

ANNEX

100K MILESTONE GIFT

On September 10, 2018, we announced a commitment by our chief executive officer, Ermest Garcia III, to contribute 165 shares of Class A
common stock to us from his personal shareholdings for every one of our then-existing employees upon their satisfying certain employment tenure
requirements. In connection with these contributions, we have made corresponding grants of 165 restricted stock units under our 2017 Omnibus Incentive
Plan to each employee who has satisfied the requirements and intend to make grants to the remaining then-existing employees as they satisfy the
requirements (the “100k Milestone Gift” or “Gift”). Under U.S. GAAP, the 100k Milestone Gift is treated as compensation expense, a portion of which
relates to the production of our used vehicle inventory and is therefore capitalized to inventory and subsequently recognized within costs of sales when the
related inventory is sold.

NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES

To supplement the consolidated financial statements, which are prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, we also present the
following non-GAAP measures: gross profit ex-Gift, gross profit per unit ex-Gift, EBITDA ex-Gift, and EBITDA margin ex-Gift. We believe the
presentation of both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures provides investors with increased transparency into financial measures used by our
management team, and it also improves investors’ understanding of our underlying operating performance and their ability to analyze our ongoing operating
trends. All historic non-GAAP financial measures have been reconciled with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.

GROSS PROFIT EX-GIFT AND GROSS PROFIT PER UNIT EX-GIFT

Gross profit ex-Gift and gross profit per unit ex-Gift are non-GAAP supplemental measures of operating performance that do not represent and
should not be considered an alternative to gross profit, as determined by GAAP. Gross profit ex-Gift is defined as gross profit before compensation expense
related to the 100k Milestone Gift included in cost of sales. Gross profit per Unit ex-Gift is Gross Profit ex-Gift divided by units sold. We use Gross Profit
ex-Gift to measure the operating performance of our business and Gross Profit per Unit ex-Gift to measure our operating performance relative to our units
sold. We believe that Gross Profit ex-Gift and Gross Profit per Unit ex-Gift are useful measures to us and to our investors because they exclude the expense
associated with the 100k Milestone Gift recognized in cost of sales. We expect the 100k Milestone Gift to be a one-time award program for which we will
recognize varying amounts of expense beginning in the second half of 2018 and continuing through the first half of 2020, and therefore we believe the
related expense does not reflect our core operations, is not included in our past operations, and may not be indicative of our future operations. Additionally,
the shares issued to settle the 100k Milestone Gift are offset by share contributions from Mr. Garcia to Carvana, therefore we expect the impact on shares
outstanding to be nearly zero. We believe that excluding it enables us to more effectively evaluate our performance period-over-period and relative to our
competitors.

- 60 -

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024369
