and naiveté about the Russian charges. But now there seemed to be a new understanding:
Donald Trump believed he had vastly more power, authority, and control than in fact he
had, and he believed his talent for manipulating people and bending and dominating them
was vastly greater than it was. Pushing this line of reasoning just a little further: senior
staff believed the president had a problem with reality, and reality was now overwhelming
him.

If true, this notion directly contravened the basic premise of the support for Trump
among his staff. In some sense, not too closely questioned, they believed he had almost
magical powers. Since his success was not explainable, he must have talents beyond what
they could fathom. His instincts. Or his salesman’s gifts. Or his energy. Or just the fact
that he was the opposite of what he was supposed to be. This was out-of-the-ordinary
politics—shock-to-the-system politics—but it could work.

But what if it didn’t? What if they were all profoundly wrong?

Comey’s firing and the Mueller investigation prompted a delayed reckoning that ended
months of willing suspension of disbelief. These sudden doubts and considerations—at the
highest level of government—did not quite yet go to the president’s ability to adequately
function in his job. But they did, arguably for the first time in open discussions, go to the
view that he was hopelessly prone to self-sabotaging his ability to function in the job. This
insight, scary as it was, at least left open the possibility that if all the elements of self-
sabotage were carefully controlled—his information, his contacts, his public remarks, and
the sense of danger and threat to him—he might yet be able to pull it together and
successfully perform.

Quite suddenly, this became the prevailing view of the Trump presidency and the
opportunity that still beckoned: you can be saved by those around you or brought down by
them.

Bannon believed the Trump presidency would fail in some more or less apocalyptic
fashion if Kushner and his wife remained Trump’s most influential advisers. Their lack of
political or real-world experience had already hobbled the presidency, but since the
Comey disaster it was getting worse: as Bannon saw it, they were now acting out of
personal panic.

The Kushner side believed that Bannon or Bannonism had pushed the president into a
harshness that undermined his natural salesman’s abilities to charm and reach out. Bannon
and his ilk had made him the monster he more and more seemed to be.

Meanwhile, virtually everybody believed that a large measure of the fault lay in Reince
Priebus, who had failed to create a White House that could protect the president from
himself—or from Bannon or from his own children. At the same time, believing that the
fundamental problem lay in Priebus was easy scapegoating, not to mention little short of
risible: with so little power, the chief of staff simply wasn’t capable of directing either

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020067
