the neighborhood, will have 6,000 square feet of amenity space that ranges from music
rehearsal and art rooms to a gym and children’s play area. Apartments go on sale this
fall, with pricing in the $1.3 million to over-$12 million ballpark.

“The site was highly undervalued because it was so far
east, and there were no good transportation links, and
people just weren’t interested or willing to go there.
But we saw opportunity,” says Barbara van Beuren,
Anbau’s managing director. “I think the absolute prices
are manageable. This is not a building full of $10
million apartments.” Still, it points to a future far more
expensive than the current data shows.

Just one block from 113-year-old Jewish bakery
Glaser’s, which churns out delicious black-and-white

cookies, Citizen360’s shimmery facade will rise 410 feet
above street level. But trumping them all will be DDG’s
under-construction goliath on 180 E. 88th St. At 521
feet, it will be the tallest structure on the Upper East
Side north of 72nd Street. Its 48 apartments with 16-
foot ceilings and custom lobby artwork launch sales this
fall, with two-beds starting from $3.4 million, three-
beds from $4.5 million and four-beds from $7 million.

The latest rendering for skyscraping
Citizen360. It’s not all about living among the clouds, though.

Pe See Nal ei Michael D’Alessio, president of Michael Paul
Enterprises, oversaw the overhaul of two smallish
rental buildings east of Third Avenue into boutique luxury projects. “They were prime
locations for condominiums catering to families,” says D’Alessio of the projects, 225 E.
81st St. (a.k.a The Justin) and 554 E. 82nd St., which have nine apartments between
them. “They are three or four bedroom units, with big living and dining areas with
fireplaces, and they all have outdoor space.” Six have been snatched up, with asks
ranging from $2.25 million for a two-bedroom to $5.99 million for a four-bedroom.

A fireplace-sporting unit inside 554 East 82nd St.
Photo: Michael Paul Enterprises

Meanwhile, another rental-to-condo conversion — Carnegie Park — attracted first-
time buyer Elizabeth Dean, who realized Yorkville offered more bang for her buck after
house-hunting in lower Manhattan.

“Originally, I wasn’t going to go north of 86th Street. I didn’t know what was above
there,” says Dean, 29, who works in finance, paid $1,184 per square foot for her one-

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022437
