=D-350 (Rev. 5-8-81) * ®

adicate page, name of
3wspaper, city and state.)

Ex-Epstein worker faces Jacl

Character: ayes
or

Classification: 3) om
Submitting Office: ~ AA M- { ORD)
o>

obstruction charges

The FBI says he tried to sell information to an agent.

agent’s affidavit, Alfredo Rod-
riguez offered to later sell
the information for $50,000
— Rodriguez calling it the

sent ir to make the buy from
Rodriguez. Rodriguez, born
in 195, had told police that
he worked for Epstein as a

cover agent and produced a
small bound book and several
sheets of legal paper, which
he told the agent he had tak-

By SUSAN.SPENCER-WENDEL critical information from fed- “Holy Grail” or “Golden Nug- butler) chauffeur, chef and en from Epstein’s home while

a ae Palin Beach Post Staff Writer eral agents — an expansive get” — to a government wit- house:aanY sometimes pick employed there in 2004 and

Epstein WEST PALM BEACH — list of Epstein victims and ness, who is notnamed in the ing uy. and cleaning sex toys 2005. Rodriguez then began
Papers A former employee of sex- , witnesses — as investigators affidavit. left bchind after Epstein fin- counting his $50,000 payoff.

listed Palm scandal-plagued Jeffrey Ep- probed the Palm Beach finan- The affidavitdoes notrefer ished his encounters with the | He was stopped, detained

| Beachsex. stein has been charged with cier for sexual exploitation of toEpstein by name, either underage girls. on the spot and questioned

offender’s obstruction ofjustice after the minors. In early November, an According to the affidavit, by agents, according to the

victims employee allevedly withkeld According to ar. FEI undercover FBI agent was Rodriguez met the under. See EPSTEIN, 5B >

Information could have altered case |

b> EPSTEIN from 1B

affidavit.

Rodriguez told agents of witness-

ing nude girls whom he believed to
be underage at Epstein’s pool area,
of knowing that his former employ-
er was having sex with underage
girls, and of viewing underage por-
nography on computers in Epstein’s
home. - ;
* Special Agent Christina Pryor
wrote that later review of the papers
and book Rodriguez handed over
revealed information “that would
have been extremely useful in
investigating and prosecuting the
case, including names and contact
information of material witnesses
and additional victims.”

“Had those items been produced
in response to inquiries of state law
enforcement officers or the Special

ents, their contents would have
‘been presented to the federal erand

_

jury,” Pryor wrote.

The information allegedly with-
held by Rodriguez may have been
a tipping point in the controversial
probe of Epstein. Federal prosecu-
tors ended up striking an extraor
dinary deal with Epstein and his
top-flight lawyers: agreeing to recall
grand jury subpoenas if Epstein
pleaded guilty to prostitution-
related felonies in state court, which
he ultimately did.

Epstein received an 18-month jail
sentence. He served 13 months and
was allowed to leave the jail most
waking hours of the day.

An attorney for Rodriguez, Assis-

tant Federal Public Defender Dave
Brannon, declined to comment on
his behalf.

An unnamed government witness
mentioned in the affidavit is likely
one of the attorneys representing
women in a gagele of current civil
lawsuits against Epstein.

The affidavit outlines how the
unnamed witness had deposed
Rodriguez, who denied having docu-
ments, then received a call from

Rodriguez later offering to sell for —

$50,000 the “Holy Grail.”

“Rodriguez explained that the
information contained hundreds of —

additional victims and their phone
numbers from diverse geographic
locations including New York, New
Mexico and Paris,” according to the
affidavit.

Rodriguez is scheduled to be ar
raigned in federal court Monday.

Also in the affidavit are the
reasons Rodriguez cited to the un-
named witness for why he withheld
the lists from investigators: He con-
sidered it his property and should
be compensated for it, and he feared
the target of the federal investiga-
tion, Epstein, would make him dis-
appear or otherwise harm him.
© susan_spenccr_wendel phoact com

3/E-Wyf-] DF hadi 2

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021665
