Reply-To: HMS-in the News <HMS_ In The News@HMS.HARVARD.EDU>

jy HARVARD In the News

COMMUNICATIONS AND EXTERNAL RELATIONS

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22, 2017

Flexibility on ‘essential benefits’ will increase cost of insurance for pregnancy, addiction and mental
illness

STAT

Richard Frank (HMS) co-authored this opinion piece arguing that the Republican health care bill could drive up
the cost of coverage for pregnancy care, newborn care, and mental illness and addictive disorders treatment.

Deepak Chopra speculates about Trump’s brain
USA Today

A noted alternative medicine advocate is the latest medical professional to speculate about President Trump’s
mental health. Rebecca Brendel (HMS/Mass General) discusses the so-called Goldwater rule of the American
Psychiatric Association that discourages physicians from expressing public opinions about people whom they
are not treating.

Can my doctor out me to my parents?
U.S. News & World Report

The article discusses the confidentiality, legal and ethical conundrums faced by LGBTQ minors and the
pediatricians who treat them when it comes to disclosing certain medical information to parents and guardians.
Alex Keuroghlian (HMS/Mass General) is mentioned.

The $10 million quest to build a home health device inspired by ‘Star Trek’
The Washington Post

Then there were two. A global competition to stimulate the innovation and integration of precision diagnostic
technologies that will allow consumers to make their own medical diagnoses has been narrowed from 312 to
two teams. Chung-Kang Peng (HMS/Beth Israel Deaconess) is the leader of one of the finalist teams. The
winner will be announced in April.

Harvard Medical School News Clips are not intended to provide an exhaustive review of all news sources.
If you have any questions about our news clips, or would like to suggest an article for inclusion, please contact HMS_ News _Clips@hmsharvard.edu.

To unsubscribe to this mailing list, send an e-mail to HMSNEWS QUAD FAC STAFF-unsubscribe-
request@listserv.med.harvard.edu with Unsubscribe as the subject.

Way HARVARD In the News

COMMUNICATIONS AND EXTERNAL RELATIONS

Dr. Rudolph E. Tanzi
Joseph. P. and Rose F. Kennedy Professor of Neurology

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029403
