CHAPTER I8

05

h police officers execute a scandy
Laura Johnson, at Jeffrey Epsteins
Inside the house, an employee is
ey ask him, politely, to hang we
p the winding stairs to the homes

sutside and reads the warrant, out
ile another officer videotapes them.
zy says as he hands over the wat-
i, I will leave a list of what items

e- a
k that you don’t answer your tel
rsation

leman was having a conve

So I’m sure he’s trying to call and ;
will be told what was going oP as |

78

Firtuy Ricw

Inside the house, detectives see the pink-and-green couch
that Mary and other girls had described. They see photos of
naked young girls—in some cases, girls they’ve spoken to about
Epstein. They also find message pads on which are written first
names, dates, and numbers for the girls.

Sometimes there are notes to go with the names and num-
bers: “I have girls for him.” Or “I have 2 girls for him.”

These notes are signed by one Sarah Kellen.

Epstein’s house has a strangely antiseptic quality. Some of
the bedrooms look almost like doctors’ offices. In the bathroom
off Epstein’s bedroom, there’s a massage table as well as stands
holding strange machines, which looked like something youd
find in a dermatologist’s office.

In a wood-colored armoire beside Epstein’s bed, they see a
bottle of peach-flavored Joy Jelly. In the bathroom, there are
soaps shaped like penises and vaginas, bottles of Mango Mist,
more Joy Jelly, and boxes of tampons.

The officers find stacks of UFC videos and DVDs of Rock Star
and other B-list movies.

They also find receipts for books bought on Amazon, such as
SlaveCraft: Roadmaps for Erotic Servitude.

On the first floor, detectives are drawn to two secret cameras
hidden in clocks. On the computer hard drive, they see several
photographs of Wendy and other girls. These images appear to
come from the camera inside the clock behind Epstein’s desk.

The officers know where the cameras are because they helped

4 install them—in 2004, when Epstein complained that someone
had stolen a gun and $2,700 from him. Detective Recarey had
_ investigated that case. But before he could arrest Epstein’s handy-
Man, Juan Alessi, for the theft, Epstein contacted a captain in the

79

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019195
