Code Enforcement Board Meeting Minutes 04/17/08

C. Case # 07-2097, 333 Sunset Ave., Royal Poinciana South

Violation of Chapter 134, Section 134-416 (d), Section 134-417 and Section 134-
418 of the Town of Palm Beach Code of Ordinances, when any building or
structure or part thereof which is nonconforming is altered, changed or replaced,
the non-conforming building or structure or part thereof shall thereafter conform
to the regulations of the district in which such building or structure is located and
the terminated nonconformity shall not thereafter be resumed nor shall any
additional nonconformity be permitted.

Lead Code Enforcement Officer Walton said this case had previously been heard
and was remanded back to the Code Enforcement Board by the Circuit Court.
The case has been previously postponed due to the attorneys for 333 Sunset Ave.
being on vacation. Mr. Walton said the Town is asking that the case be postponed
again because Mr. Castro, the Zoning Administrator, could not be present today.

MOTION BY MR. KOEPPEL TO RESCHEDULE THE CASE UNTIL
MAY 15, 2008

SECONDED BY MS. GREENBERG

MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY

Mr. Hoffman addressed a question to Sgt. Krauel or Lead Code Enforcement
Officer Walton as to whether people were starting to pay more attention to Code
Enforcement or perhaps fewer violators were found this month. Mr. Walton said
the Town was getting better compliance and perhaps these agendas would be even
shorter in the future. He said the word was out that not only were the Code
Enforcement officers looking harder but the Board is not being as generous with
the time but still being fair. Mr. Hoffman said he needed to compliment the Town
Council on their efforts to make Code Enforcement an important part of making
the community a more habitable place. He said he also wanted to compliment the
Staff for doing that for the Town.

Captain Blouin said when Code Enforcement was first transferred to the Police
Department, things were structured a little differently. In the past, it had been
treated more leniently. The citizens did not take it seriously because they believed
they were

going to keep getting more time. He said some of the earlier cases when the Police
Department took over were more than a year old when they came before the
Board. The police department changed it so the cases are before the Board more
quickly. Many of the attorneys who were known to defend the code violation type
of cases initially were very combative. That attitude has now changed and they are
contacting the Police Department to see what they need to do to come into
compliance. Captain Blouin said he wanted to thank the Board for their efforts in
making this happen within the community because it is making code enforcement
more efficient in the Town.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016610
