summary
I can either do it for you or not. if i do it it means finding hiring organizeing, structuring reviewing re
negotiating, bring in my team under my control not brads. . stop -gap accounting - my people getting the
books software and procedure in shape. setting up the various brokerage and bank accounts and rationalizing
them, organizing Melanie, TPS , house, and all the intra family notes outstanding, overseeing the phaidon
mess.maybe sale redo some of estate given the new circumstances. etc. I 've responded to every brad question
, given him first lessons , not a good use of my time or his. he should administrate, follow up, have signing
authority instead of eileen, ( AFTER rationalized accounts ). holding a position of trust. ONLY

talk whenever you like, NO STRESS , Mort had a skiing accident and sultan not fully comp es mentes. no
stress please for either of us . both of our reserves which are not insubstantial , can use a break

Date: Tue, Apr 7, 2015 at 4:29 PM
Subject:
To: Melanie Spin iT
agenda for tomorrow.
1 building an office from scratch. who doesit. ? so far little or no progress in real terms.. brad should
remain and can administrate. follow up methodically, . has no idea of corrrect questions to ask. or
understanding of family office issues. procedures checlks and balances. etc .. consultants , diana
goldner foundtaion woman?. office . focus .
2. without strong , very stroung direction, joslin will not make it. does not know where to focus. who to
respond to. and how. unfortunately now getting more and more answers like the powers that be , want it that
way.??
3. the priority list is still virtually the same , since dec. . accounting system. redone from scratch. etc.
4. it will take 9 months. at a minimum now. . an outsider brought in when everything is clean , including
phaidon, notes. eileen. banks, jpm db, bam, etc.
5 disposition, of Phaidon. art space regan etc.( ressler??) . sale of boat. plane . art , stock, investments, athene?
etc, tra, brh.
6 .newIT . complex. household . payroll insurance . recurring bills.
7 estate modification given new circunstances and altered probablities. (use etc )
8 charity, new trusts,!!d_ IPI< harvard . fees,

I spoke to brad and made him aware of all my concerns and propsals to move forward. he is desperate for
help

Date: Tue, Apr 14, 2015 at 11:53 PM

Subject:

To: Melanie vin [i -_

saved you 500k at the last minute, . brad has had the same chart since march 16th, its his job to review NOT
MINE .appears he is one of those living in the dark leiwe. I found 8 million dollars today, missed
deductions. . not yet in the numbers, .?

Date: Tue, Apr 21, 2015 at 1:10 PM
Subject:
To: Melanie Spinella il
emblematic of my frustration and ,in the end what I believe is a waste of our time energy money and
resources. is the very simple question of bidco bank accounts. 4 months ago I asked the question , does it
have a bank account and if so , who has authority, where is it located and what transacations ran through it. it
is only one question out of hundreds that need to be answered. hundreds. . you asked that i not behave like
Zeus and try to explain why I want need certain things. since isaid to placate Brad's inquisitive ness and his
desire to learn I said a filing might be required. instead of merely getting me the answer. he has talked to
joslin paul weiss , you , you wanted to ask brad karp. ( maybe a filing that reopened things, )

none of this as a practical matter has any influence upon the ultimate action taken . I merely needed to

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023349
