2014] CRIME VICTIMS’ RIGHTS 87

as environmental crimes investigators in the Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA).'°

This coverage provision would seem to answer any lingering question
about whether the CVRA applies before charging. In directing that federal
employees engaged in the “detection” and “investigation” of crime must
respect victims’ rights, Congress wanted broad rights extending beyond just
the prosecution of a case. As the district court concluded in the Epstein
case, this provision “surely contemplates pre-charge application of the
CVRA.”°!

OLC gamely maintains, however, that Congress was simply trying to
provide that federal law enforcement agents should provide rights to
victims when a criminal case moves to its prosecution phase. OLC noted
the uncontroversial point that law enforcement agents “often develop a
relationship of trust with crime victims during the investigation that
continues as they assist crime victims in negotiating active criminal
proceedings.”!©? OLC then asserted:

Given this continuing active role that agents typically play during criminal
prosecutions, we find the fact that the CVRA assigns responsibility to them, together
with the attorney for the Government, to ... accord them their rights under the CVRA
to be entirely consistent with our conclusion that those rights arise only once the
Government has initiated criminal proceedings. !°

But OLC’s contorted position never explains why Congress found it
necessary to break out three separate phases of the criminal justice process:
the “detection,” “investigation,” and “prosecution” of crime. If the
congressional intent was simply to cover, for example, FBI agents or EPA
agents during the post-charging phase of a case, it could have simply
omitted those words from the CVRA. An FBI agent, for example, would be
engaged in the “prosecution” of the case when assisting the victim after the
formal filing of charges. On OLC’s reading of the statute, the words
“detection” and “investigation” become meaningless, contrary to the well-
known canon of construction verba cum effectu sunt accipienda, which
means that, if possible, every word and every provision is to be given
effect.!

OLC also suggests that the “most significant” argument supporting
pre-charging application of nghts is the venue provision, which allows

100 See Kylet al., supra note 136, at 615 (“Notice should be given to the fact that it applies
not just to the Department of Justice, but to all ‘departments and agencies of the United States
engaged in the detection, investigation, or prosecution of crime.”” (citation omitted)).

161 Does v. United States, 817 F. Supp. 2d 1337, 1342 (S.D. Fla. 2011).

162 OLC CVRA Rights Memo, supra note 2, at 15.

163 Iq

164 See, e.g., Reiter v. Sonotone Corp., 442 U.S. 330, 339 (1979).

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014066
