and you and I can kibbitz about it all. structures outcomes risk, museums. charity, ( joslins answer by
the way was I had asked how much charity was leon planining to give this year , (the 2m) _ he didnt
include your foundation or the payment to me, or from debra and you??!!

Date: Mon, Dec 7, 2015 at 5:39 PM

Subject: Fee

To: Melanie Spinella ~~

Amount ? Paid in kind ? Financed ? Plane ?Paid to ? Non charity , charity . Fixed dates

Date: Mon, Dec 7, 2015 at 8:05 PM
Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella ii

please re iterate that no further actions taken without careful document review. please

Subject:
To: Melanie Spinella (is
Leon,

As you are well aware, There is little I won't do for you, or at least try to do as a friend, and a great
deal that I have already done ( both known and some things that willneed to remain unknown.) Our
arrangement was for me to architect sophisticated structures that would be beneficial to you. that is what
I have done and will continue do in order to fulfill my obligations under our agreement. The
discovered fact that you in reality need an entire family office built from scratch has been trying I have
aleady agreed de- facto to try to help. I would suggest that Phaidons payroll and attention pales in
importance to your personal structure,which has taken a back seat, Some of = my suggestions regarding
the Eystum office are as follows you will need a budget of 3- 5 million per year. CEO 1 million, new
tax person to work with rich, 250. new bookkeeper ,200 new paralegal to work with ADA ALan etc ,
coordinating with Apollo, Akin , paul weiss , new acct openings , sec filings , sales tax review, etc.
$150. art point person. loan , inventory, purchasing support, $?? software servers. video conferencing,
tax oversight.

I believe You should rapidly address trustees , gift trust, succesion, wills of debra and children, ,
monetization events , cash flow. etc I can ofcourse share my experiences with you on each issue.

WIth regard the more pressing issue I am uncertain of just how to proceed. I am torn, as my very
strong inclination is not to be involved at all . It is extremely time consuming, delicate, fraught with many
pitfall many that will make you very upset and a major pain in the ass. I wrote you months ago that the
quality of the people involved need to be upgraded. ( lucky for me these last issues arose way before the
begining of my involvement ) Iam also aware however of my overarching friendship obligations of ok, -
given all the complexities who else can do it? problem.

Your family office needs a daddy. children with good intentions are running around , sniping , nitpicking
with little direction. As a stopgap measure I am suggesting , we put in Larry Delson to take charge
Everyone would report to him. eileen included. He would however work for me. this is not, by a long
shot my first choice as I prefer only being responsible and standing behind my own personal work (ie
the word DONE will no longer be transmitted to reflect status stated by others )

With no commitment on my part whatsoever, to do it. So far as I have failed in my attempt in trying to
think through the problem creatively . My organizations handling of the more complex isssues I believe
you might find very costly, very ! ( however many structures available some risk sharing, maybe risk caps
,etc ) but would require my teams doing the work , not yours. Ada should be only a trust, grat
administrator. not sure what role you prefer for Eileen as you hired her initially to oversee investments.
whether Rich your controller stays or not, is not urgent. having Tom report to a new person.- is.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023215
