Graydon Carter and
Anna Scott Carter

- Andre Balazs

Philomena producers Gaby Tana and
Tracey Seaward invited me to Steve Coogan’s
home where music man Alexandre Desplat
and Jon Hamm were having beers. Coogan
captivated me with conversation of how he
and the real Philomena Lee, who was a red
carpet regular, took their “full disclosure”
adoption campaign to the Vatican, meeting
The Pope. Only Harvey Weinstein could
have pulled off that jaw-dropping marketing
miracle.

Traditionally, there are three private agency
parties on Friday night—WME, CAA, and
UTA. They were hosted by Ari Emanuel,
Kevin Huvane, and Jim Berkus and were
press free, leaving the stars uninhibited and
happy. Justin Theroux, about to explode in
HBO’s miniseries The Leftovers, canoodled
with Jennifer Aniston. Past and present
Oscar nominees and winners including
Ben Affleck, Matt Damon, Oprah Winfrey,
Charlize Theron, Bradley
Cooper, Jonah Hill, Alexander Payne, Steve

Sean Penn,

58 | AVENUE MAGAZINE « APRIL 2012

McQueen, and Alfonso Cuarén were among
the evening’s migrating tribe.
SATURDAY, MARCH 1

Barry Diller and Diane von Furstenberg
canceled their annual, highly anticipated
outdoor lunch for Graydon Carter at their
Coldwater Canyon home atop a steep hill
because of impending torrential rain that
never came. Three hundred power hungry
showbiz executives were sent into a tailspin
for an alternative activity.

Luckily, Sony Pictures Classics’ and
industry icons Tom Bernard, and Michael
Barker took pity on me and invited me to
their table at the Independent Spirit Awards
under a wobbly tent that billowed with the
wind in Santa Monica.

Bob Balaban and I headed to the 6th
annual Chanel-sponsored dinner hosted
by the debonair Charles Finch at Madeo.
Girls donning $20k Chanel dresses included

Anne Hathaway, Sienna Miller (with baby

arvey Weinstein and: |
Georgina Chapman
ae

Sandra Bullock Terry Richardson

daddy Tom Sturridge), Lily Collins, Greta
Gerwig and Poppy Delevingne. Jessica de
Rothschild and her director husband Sacha
Gervasi were in attendance as well as Adrien
Brody, David O. Russell, Oliver Stone, Danny
Huston, Jean Pigozzi, Ben Silverman, Peter
Morton, and Elon Musk.

Harvey and Bob Weinstein along with
Chopard honored their nominees, including
the RADiUS-TWC’s _ Best
Documentary winner 20 Feet from Stardom,

singers in

with a seated dinner at the Montage Hotel in
the “Marchesa Ballroom” (The dining room
was rechristened for the evening in honor
of Harvey’s wife Georgina Chapman’s dress
label.) After dinner, guests were wowed by
a performance from Weinstein’s upcoming
Broadway musical, Finding Neverland, based
on their Oscar-nominated film about Peter
Pan creator J. M. Barrie. Celebrities Bono, U2,
Mery] Streep, Julia Roberts, Oprah Winfrey,
Olivia Wilde and Jason Sudeikis, Christoph
Waltz, and Taylor Swift gave Neverland’s
stars, Jason Alexander and Gary Barlow, a
standing ovation.

My Oscar date this year was GMAs
glamorous Lara Spencer. | arrived, as usual,
two hours early at the Dolby Theater in order
to plant myself on the mother ofall red carpets.
Only this year, I was incognito with the dark

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010721

© COPYRIGHT 2013 STARTRAKSPHOTO.COM AND BFANYC.COM
