Aim to Answer Questions Like These About USA Inc....

Strategy / Financial Model

Which countries (or states) have ‘best practices’ (based on productivity and outcomes) in key areas of
operations (like healthcare, retirement plans, welfare, defense, education, infrastructure) — which of
these best practices can / should be implemented by USA Inc.?

What is the organization trying to solve for - what is USA Inc.'s mission? / Who are USA Inc.'s
customers?

Is USA Inc. providing its customers an optimized mix of services, based, in part, on ability to fund the
services?

Are there ‘business lines’ that USA Inc. should exit / scale back / expand?

Why is USA Inc. spending more money than it brings in (and borrowing more money) — what are the
checks and balances?

What do USA Inc.'s financials tell us about the health of the business?

Should USA Inc. consider a capital budget separated from the operating budget to ensure sufficient
levels of investment in education, technology and infrastructure?

What are the best attributes / biggest problems of USA Inc.'s business?
Does USA Inc. have a path to profitability (or break-even)?

How should the government improve transparency in long-term budgeting and projections? How can
USA Inc. engage the public in this process?

USA Inc. | What Might a Turnaround Expert Consider? 241

Source: KPCB and Alvarez & Marsal Public Sector Services, LLC.
(@)E) www.kpcb.com

...Aim to Answer Questions Like These About USA Inc....

People / Organizational Structure

Has management effectively articulated a sound mission to its employees and constituents
- is USA Inc. properly organized to effectively achieve its mission?

Does the organization have the right people, in the right places, at the right time?

Does the business have a best-in-class leadership team and are they empowered to make
change?

Are employees motivated / empowered / accountable for maximum performance?
Are employees properly trained and compensated?

Has the organization 'run the numbers’ and effectively quantified the things that are
quantifiable?

Do leading performance measures exist that support proactive management?

How do you change the culture to be one that is steeped with focus on costs savings and
operating efficiency?

Source: KPCB and Alvarez & Marsal Public Sector Services, LLC.
(@E) www.kpcb.com

USA Inc. | What Might a Turnaround Expert Consider? 242

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020962
