Equity styles

UBS View Prefer value and large caps in Europe, mid caps in US
¢ We recommend that investors look for value opportunities in Europe: The cheapest stocks within each
sector are at extreme relative valuations, which should begin to normalize. Within Financials, however,
investors should limit their direct exposure to the Eurozone debt crisis. We assess the cheapness of a stock
by looking at its price-to-earnings and price-to-book ratios relative to its peers.

° We believe US mid caps will outperform large caps. US economic data is forecast to stabilize and GDP
growth should be resilient in the second half of 2012. Greater domestic sales exposure reduces earnings
risk coming from Europe. In Europe, we prefer large over small caps in the current very challenging
economic environment.

¢ High quality dividend paying stocks provide a real and stable income stream to investors during the
current low yield environment. Furthermore, they give exposure to the long term potential of equity
markets while also providing some support in declining markets.

4 Positive scenario Prefer value, low quality and small caps
¢ Leading indicators continue to move higher, and risks related to the Eurozone debt crisis subside. In this
case, add deep cyclical value (cheap price/book, price/earnings) regardless of sector, with high beta and
high leverage. In such an environment, small- and mid-cap stocks should also perform well, but a dividend
strategy would be too defensive to outperform the market.

& Negative scenario Prefer quality and large caps
¢ The global economic picture deteriorates markedly. In this case, buy high-quality growth companies and
large caps. Do not look for value opportunities, but be as defensive as possible with your equity exposure.
Look to high-quality, dividend-paying stocks for yield.

Note: Scenarios refer to global economic scenarios (see slide 7).

What we're watching Why it matters

Earnings revisions—see | Watch for signs of continued improvement in earnings revisions (aggregated

chart from stock level). An improved earnings outlook would cause investors to add
(3-month moving more risk, allowing multiples to expand and triggering the outperformance of
average upgrades vs. value stocks.

downgrades)

US and Eurozone PMIs If PMIs stabilize or improve, value stocks should outperform as there is no longer

justification to pay the high price for earnings stability (quality). Key dates: 2
July, PMI Manufacturing Eurozone; 2 July, US ISM Manufacturing

a UBS For further information please contact CIO's asset class specialist Christopher Wright, christopher-zb.wright@ubs.com

Regional differentiation

e Within Europe, look for value
opportunities within each sector, but be
aware of the higher-risk Financials.

e In the US, there are opportunities in value
names that also show strong growth.

e Within Europe, avoid small caps and
instead rotate into large caps.

e In the US, prefer mid caps to large caps
while GDP growth is above 2%.

Strategic (1 to 2 years)

e We expect value strategies to outperform
the market significantly over the long
term.

¢ Mid-cap stocks provide attractive
opportunities over the longer term.

European earnings revisions fell hard
last year, but the down cycle might be
be ending (net revisions, in %; MSCI
Europe)
30%
20%

10%

0%

-10%

-20%
-30%
-40%
-50%

-60%
Jun.05 Jun.06 Jun.07 Jun.0&8 Jun.09 Jun.10 Jun.11  Jun.12

Source: FactSet, UBS CIO, as of 27 June 2012

Note: Past performance is no indication for future returns.

21

Please see important disclaimer and disclosures at the end of the document.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024156
