Firtuy Ricu
ERSON

no. And he still paid me the I mean, I'm sorry, he is circumcised, my bad. He's circum-

st. L went home. cised, a hundred and ten percent sure. A matter of fact, he

has some sort of birth defect. On his thing. I don’t know what

it is [giggles]; I’ve never really looked at it, because I’ve never
at was it. Yeah, he ejaculated. | done anything where I had to touch it. I’ve never touched
it— out of the whole time I worked for him, I never touched
his penis. Like, he—I’m pretty sure he rubbed it against me,

nt there?
but I've never ever been, like, “Okay, I’m letting you do this”
ath, I know, I can see iri yOu or “I’m gonna do this to you.” Um, it’s really weirdly shaped.
mu went there multiple times? (intr know ds jn sesnie tetas, fell eomthte?
| what happened the first time. .
ineay macs ‘ot | I'm just really embarrassed. Um, it’s like a teardrop, like a
ding six bucks an hour. drop of water. It's really fat at the bottom and skinny at the

au were sixteen now? top, where it’s attached. And he never gets fully hard, ever.
re of my age. I was under seven- Like, I just could tell by looking at it—like, by looking you
can obviously tell if you’re hard or not, and I could tell that
he wasn't.
first time you went, when he a
: D: The next time you went, or as you continued to go, did it
escalate more?

V. Mm-hmm. 1 actually —I don’t remember how long it took for

to ask me if I saw, like, hiscome. 7 a me to start working for him regularly, from the first time I
a went there. But I started working every day. Every single day

| he was in the country I would be there... And, um, I told
tked? Fully naked? ] i him that I wouldn't let him put anything inside of me; that
ked. He had a towel on for some =~ 4 was my rule. Nothing inside of me—no fingers, no, no noth-
anything. Like, he was naked.  S 1 ing, absolutely nothing inside of me. He increased my pay to

; 43 three or four hundred dollars as long as he could touch me.
q Um, I still never —I, I swear I never touched him, the whole
q entire time I never, ever touched him. Um, but he, he—

4]

40

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019157
