developed the ability to anticipate the most highly prized but often embarrassing-to-
say longing for a particular sexual act without being asked. She told me that she
had to “empty out my personal sex manual” to feel the cravings of her clients. What
the john most wanted appeared suddenly in her mind in the form of a cartoon. A
university criminologist later explained that the word “griv” was probably derived
from what pick pockets call grift sense, the ability to intuit who was likely to have
enough money in their billfold to justify the risk, even if they appeared in the worn
clothes and dated cars of old money.

In his 1913 Dernieres Penses, Henri Poincare’, France’s seminal theorist in
nonlinear dynamical systems theory, described intuition as a mental faculty which
allows us to “...immediately see the end from afar...” In the context of mathematical
epistemology, the instantaneous images of a geometer contrast with the labored
sequential logic of the mathematical analyst. Poincare’ claimed that inclinations
toward one or the other of these two cognitive styles and their associated
mathematical tools arise from different kinds of minds. He contrasted the 19
Century German mathematicians, Weierstrass, who he said reduced his general

tt

theory of functions to “...a prolongation of arithmetic...without a single (pictorial)

n

figure in any of his books...” with Riemann who called geometry to his aid in
describing functions. He created “...an image that no one can forget... once he
understood it.”

Experiencing the behavior of others, we create a set of anticipations about
whom and how they are that align with parts of ourselves. Aware of one aspect of a
person, we imagine the others. With a small amount of initial information, we
connect the dots, fitting features we have seen and heard to personality
configurations stored by informal category in our brain files. Our conclusions about
them “being one of those” can both facilitate and impair our perceptions. Eastern
metaphysicians, Western mystical religionists, socially liberal secular humanists,
Shannon information theorists and today’s students of dynamical systems in brain
and behavior can, in different ways, make the case that the content of these
stereotypes reflect a pattern of constraints, our personal limitations resulting from

the rutted roads of worldly experiences. Baba Muktananda, the Hindi Saint from the

23

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013523
