CHAPTER II Cannabis Science 101

Caryophyllene: Caryophyllene is known for its peppery, woody and spicy smell. It is believed to have
several medicinal benefits, such as antibacterial, anticancer, antifungal and anti-ischemic, and a thera-
peutic application as a bronchodilator. Caryophyllene is found in many plants, including Thai basil,
cloves, cinnamon leaves and black pepper.

Humulene: Humulene is well known for giving beer its hoppy aroma and is believed to have several
medicinal benefits: antibacterial, anti-inflammatory and antitumor. Humulene is used to aid weight
loss by acting as an anorectic (appetite suppressant). It is also found in hops and coriander.

Limonene: Limonene is recognized for its citrusy smell. Its medicinal benefits are believed to include
antianxiety, antibacterial, anticancer, anticonvulsive, antidepressant and antifungal. Limonene present
in cannabis quickly enters the bloodstream upon inhalation, which may facilitate the quick absorption
of other terpenes and thus contribute to an uplifting experience. Limonene is also present in citrus fruit
rinds, rosemary, juniper, peppermint and pine needle oils, and its strong smell serves as a natural insect
repellent.

Linalool: Linalool has floral and lavender aromas. It is believed to have medicinal benefits that
include antibacterial, antidepressant, antifungal and anti-insomnia. Linalool may also counteract anx-
iety induced by THC consumption. Some research suggests that linalool may boost the immune sys-
tem, reduce lung inflammation and restore cognitive and emotional function (potentially making it
useful in the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease). Linalool is found naturally in hundreds of plants and is
a common ingredient in bath products.

Myrcene: Myrcene is generally the most abundant terpene found in cannabis and is known for its
musky and earthy herbal smell, comparable to the smell of cloves. Myrcene is believed to have several
medicinal benefits, including antibacterial, anticancer, antifungal, anti-inflammatory and antiseptic.
Myrcene is understood to enable and hasten the psychoactive effect of THC by lowering resistance
posed by the blood-brain barrier and increasing the THC saturation capacity of the CB1 receptors.
Consuming cannabis with high levels of myrcene may contribute to sedative and relaxing effects suit-
able for the treatment of insomnia and pain. Myrcene is present in hops, citrus fruits, bay leaves, euca-
lyptus, wild thyme, lemongrass and many other plants.

Pinene: Pinene is known for its pine and fir aromas and is believed to have medicinal benefits, such
as antibacterial, antifungal and anti-inflammatory, and a therapeutic application as a bronchodilator.
Pinene has shown potential to function as an anticancer agent and is believed to counter some of the
psychoactive effects of THC. Pinene is present in conifers, pine resin and citrus fruits and is one of the
terpenes most prevalent in nature.

Terpinolene: Terpinolene has a piney aroma and subtle herbal and sweet floral scents similar to
citrus fruits. Terpinolene is believed to have medicinal benefits, including antibacterial, antifungal,
anti-insomnia and antiseptic. It is also thought to be a central nervous system depressant and is used
to induce sleep or reduce psychological distress. Terpinolene is found in sage and rosemary and is used
in soaps and perfumes.

© 2017 Ackrell Capital, LLC | Member FINRA/SIPC 25

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024661
