actions that imply particular timing
patterns such as synchrony or rhythmic
turn taking such as applauding in unison
or the ‘wave’ that is produced by
thousands of individual sports fans in a
stadium. A model to explain such
synchronized behavior is proposed in
terms of the neural processes that are
jointly recruited. One of the main
implications suggested by this model is
that taking part in or being part of a
synchronized social interaction gives rise
to a qualitative shift in subjective
experience due to the difficulty of
applying an individual centered
explanation to collectively produced
spontaneous co-action.

You and I as One

7. Action at a Distance: The Invisible

Force of Language
Language forms the fabric of our social
institutions and makes tangible the nature
of our relationships. Although the
function of language 1s typically viewed
in terms of the information content that it
provides, some of the social function of
language may depend on the way it
affects us. The idea of language impact
— how language directly affects our
emotions and social connections — may
be fundamental to the way the social
brain functions to connect people.

Systems and Signals for Social
Coordination

8. Hidden Forces in Understanding
Others: Mirror Neurons and
Neurobiological Underpinnings

Specific brain regions in the monkey
contain individual brain cells, or neurons,
that respond to both observation and
execution of identical hand and mouth
actions. Brain imaging in humans has
demonstrated that our brains have
similarly localized regions with similar
properties. These areas respond to
execution of goal-directed actions of the
hand and mouth and during observation

of the same or similar actions.
Interestingly, these brain regions in the
human are also responsive to observation
and imitation of facial movements, and
appear to be sensitive to their emotional
content.

Connecting and Binding Social Brains
and Minds

9. Empathy and Interpersonal Sensitivity
Empathy is thought to play a key role in
motivating prosocial behavior, guiding
our preferences and behavioral
responses, and providing the affective
and motivational base for moral
development. While folk conceptions of
empathy view it as the capacity to share,
understand and respond with care to the
affective states of others, neuroscience
research demonstrates that these
components can be dissociated. Empathy
is not a unique characteristic of human
consciousness, but it is an important
adaptive behavior that evolved with the
mammalian brain. However, humans are
special in the sense that high-level
cognitive abilities (language, theory of
mind, executive functions) are layered on
top of phylogenetically older social and
emotional capacities. These higher level
cognitive and social capacities expand
the range of behaviors that can be driven
by empathy.

Seeing into My Mind and Other Minds

10. Seeing Invisible Minds
Other minds are inherently invisible.
Being able to see them requires
learning about other minds, attending to
other minds, and projecting one’s own
mind onto others, and seeing minds in
other agents can mean the difference
between treating others as humans versus
as objects.

Inferring Minds When None Can be
Seen

11. Anthropomorphism: Human
Connection to a Universal Society

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021249
