174 9 General Intelligence in the Everyday Human World

The Second Brain

. The gastrointestinal neural net contains millions of neurons and is capable of operating inde-
pendently of the brain. It modulates stress response and other aspects of emotion and motivation
based on experience — resulting in so-called gut feelings [Ger99].

The Heart’s Neural Network
. The heart has its own neural network, which modulates stress response, energy level and
relaxation/excitement (factors key to motivation and emotion) based on experience [Arm(4].
Pattern Recognition and Memory in the Liver
. The liver is a complex pattern recognition system, adapting via experience to better identify
toxins [C06]. Like the heart, it seems to store some episodic memories as well, resulting in liver
transplant recipients sometimes acquiring the tastes in music or sports of the donor [EMC12].
Immune Intelligence
. The immune network is a highly complex, adaptive self-organizing system, which ongoingly
solves the learning problem of identifying antigens and distinguishing them from the body
system [F P86]. As immune function is highly energetically costly, stress response involves subtle
modulation of the energy allocation to immune function, which involves communication between
neural and immune networks.
The Endocrine System: A Key Bridge Between Mind and Body
. The endocrine (hormonal) system regulates (and is related by) emotion, thus guiding all
aspects of intelligence (due to the close connection of emotion and motivation) [PH12].
Breathing Guides Thinking
. As oxygenation of the brain plays a key role in the spread of neural activity, the flow of breath
is a key driver of cognition. Forced alternate nostril breathing has been shown to significantly
affect cognition via balancing activity of the two brain hemispheres [SKBB91].

Much remains unknown, and the totality of feedback loops between the human cognitive

cortex and the various specialized intelligences operative throughout the human body, has not
yet been thoroughly charted.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013090
