indirectly by my sons and church elders about joining a study group for personal

conversion.

| was surprised to learn that discussions of current political topics were a
regular part of these discussions as well as the Sunday and Wednesday night
services. We received a weekly political action committee report. Their issues
involved abortion, school vouchers, sex education in schools, family planning,
school prayer and carefully chosen Christian elected officials for school boards and
the Congress. As a congregation, we frequently held hands in small circles and
prayed for the electoral success of our issues and candidates. Twenty years later,
this movement has evolved into the public political morality play of the Republican

base of George W. Bush.

Laying on of hands, dying in the Lord, speaking in tongues, dancing in the
aisles and praying with up stretched arms were routine in the hymn dense services.
The goal for all was the spiritual transformation of mind as in Romans, “...be not
fashioned according to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your
mind that ye may prove what is the good and well-pleasing and perfect will of
God...” The pastor told us that the world ruled mind could not grasp spiritual things
as in Corinthians “...they are foolishness unto him and he cannot know them,

because they are spiritually understood.”

My research took me to a collaborative project at a European mathematics
institute for three months. | returned to our town very late on a Saturday night. |
planned to surprise my sons by appearing at their usual choice of the middle service
the next day. | drove up to the warehouse church fifteen minutes before the service
was scheduled and found that the parking lot of the strip mall was nearly empty.
There was no Cadillac parked at the front door. | banged on the double door when |
found it locked. More then a little surprised, | called my eldest. He told me that four
weeks before, the pastor disappeared, | later found that his disappearance
accompanied that of the congregation’s bank account, and no one knew where he
had gone. He had not warned or informed anyone in the congregation about his

plans. Calmly and without apparent awareness of my surprise and distress, my

141

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013641
