4) Jobs creation: the entry of foreign companies into retailing in Saudi Arabia will
not only create job opportunities but will also ensure quality in them, improving
standards of living and life styles.

Al Hokair: Eased restrictions on foreign investors: perception vs reality
The liberalization of the Saudi retail industry raised concerns among Al Hokair investors
regarding the potential loss of the Inditex franchise, which we estimate accounts for 8%
of its total stores. We think this risk is overstated for the following reasons:

e _ Relationship with parent: Unlike its peers, Al Hokair enjoys favourable access to
prime locations in well-located shopping malls owned by its parent shareholder, Al
Hokair Group. The group owns and operates 13 shopping malls across Saudi Arabia
(1.2m sqm of prime real estate) through its subsidiary Arabian Centres Company.
However, we understand that rents are currently negotiated on commercial terms,
thereby limiting the risk of a conflict of interest. We do not think the situation will
change.

e Real estate is key to entering the market: Fashion retailers continue to compete
for good-quality real estate in shopping centres and on high streets. Going forward,
there is likely to be significant competition between these companies for new sites,
especially in prime shopping centres, as they all require similar locations, typically
prominent, wide-fronted premises. Zara, in particular, uses its shop windows to
advertise its products.

e Local manufacturing and distribution network would add execution risks and
costs to international retailers such as Inditex: While Saudi Arabia has not yet
provided the details and conditions of the potential eased restrictions on foreign
investors, we understand that the government is looking to attract investments,
diversify its economy and improve Saudization. This means foreign retailers could
be asked to set up local manufacturing and distribution networks within Saudi
Arabia, which we believe could discourage retailers such as Inditex from entering
the market directly.

More malls, less bargaining power with international retailers

The accelerating pace of mall developments in Saudi Arabia by regional competitors to
Al Hokair’s parent company suggests a rising risk of diminishing bargaining power for Al
Hokair with its international brand partners such as Inditex. We expect Shumoul Holding
55% owned by Mabanee, the Kuwaiti mall operator, to develop a 400k sqm mall in
Riyadh while Dubai-based Majid Al Futtaim recently announced that it is looking to
develop two malls in Riyadh of 300k and 100k sqm of GLA respectively resulting in four
times more stores (300) in the next five years. Such new entrants can then
accommodate foreign retailers (such as Inditex), which could question the sustainability
of Al Hokair’s franchise model.

Jarir: exposed to NTP innovations

What if Apple enters Saudi Arabia

Should Apple enter Saudi Arabia, it would negatively impact the Apple resellers such as
Jarir as the majority of the sales would be transferred to the Apple-branded stores. As
such, we highlight 2 key risks to Jarir that would ultimately deteriorate earnings outlook:
(1) rising competition from Apple resulting in a weaker footfall trend due to weaker
electronic sales, which are key for store traffic; and, (2) intensifying competition from
organised retail space (malls), reducing the market share of specialist retailers such as
Jarir.

Jarir’s earnings sensitive to electronics business
With c40% of revenues and c20% of gross profit derived from the electronics segment,
Jarir remains vulnerable to the threat of foreign retailers entering directly Saudi Arabia.

62 GEMs Paper #26 | 30 June 2016 3S Merrill Lynch

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016172
