I saw an online video from sex educator Betty Dodson called Did I Orgasm?”... and I
realized that I'd been occasionally having weak orgasms already. I was also
experimenting more and more with BDSM; simultaneously, I put more and more power
into the hands of my fantasy men; and once I had compelling private fantasies to feed on,
I couldn't help masturbating. Here was the key: initially, I'd felt that masturbating in itself
involved having too much control over the situation. And that's not how my sexuality
worked.

Oh yes, in practice I take responsibility for my pleasure; and now I'm pretty good at
clearly discussing what kind of role my partners will take ahead of time, describing what
they'll do with me. These days, I sometimes take the dominant role, too. But even now,
it's hard for me to come if I feel like I'm in control.

On some level, even if it's the most tissue-thin fantasy, I usually have to convince my
emotional-sexual self that I'm not in charge. It helps if I have an emotional connection
with whoever I'm fantasizing about, too. If I don't have an emotionally involved romantic
partner, I seem to automatically create BDSM-themed fantasy worlds with hilariously
ornate storylines. Years ago, it never occurred to me that I couldn't reach orgasm because
my internal characters weren't compelling or my plotlines weren't dramatic enough... but
sometimes it's true!

In my case, I believe that BDSM is the key to my sexuality. It is as close to the core of
my sexual identity as I can get; close enough that, like some other BDSMers, I
occasionally call it my orientation. But I don't think BDSM is like that for everyone,
and I don't even think that's the whole story with me -- because during the whole time,
this self-discovery process, I was doing things like eating more regularly, keeping a
healthier diet, putting some weight on my previously stick-thin frame, and exercising
more. Health plays a big role in any kind of sex, and it's important to think about. Still,
even now I can't come without some thread of dominance and submission, even if it's an
entirely internal fantasy that I imprint on whatever is happening.

When women ask me for advice on how to have orgasms, I feel helpless because there is
no one true way. I don't want to fall back on the old let go and keep trying” that I
received -- it's decent advice, but it's so vague. Perhaps something more useful would be
this: first, it really helps to have an idea of what you want. I know this can be hard in a
society that soaks us with sexual images designed for stereotypical men, rather than
images for women (and especially not for non-normative women like myself). And I feel
so aware of how patronizing and useless the you aren't in touch with your sexuality,
that's why you can't come” argument can be. Remember, I had that argument used against
me by my lesbian friend. But it was, in fact, kinda true for me -- just in a different way: I
need BDSM.

If you're not sure what you want, don't panic. Just keep your eyes and ears open, and try
to monitor your reactions. It may surprise you. If it does, don't worry -- just research it!
No matter how unusual your sexuality, there is probably information on the Internet

about it. (And even if your sexuality is unusual, odds are it's not nearly as unusual as you
think it is.)

I often refer to my personal favorite sex education website in the entire world: it's

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018506
