Tax

“There is a big gulf between our two views... We believe
that we should have a pure territorial system...And so | do
believe that this issue is coming,” Ryan said. “| don’t think
you can stand against aterritorialsystem much longer.”
Ryan also remarked that “the experience | had when | was
Ways and Meanschair with [Democrats] was not a
pleasant one, and | don’t know if that’s going to change.”

In a September 8 New York Times op-ed, Senator Warren
said foreign developments are increasing pressure on
Congress to cut corporations “a new sweetheart deal” in
tax reform, but lawmakers should instead take the
opportunity to collect more revenue from corporations.

“Preferential tax treatment, either through special rates
or deferred due dates, creates a huge financial incentive
for American companies to build businesses and create
jobs abroad rather than in the United States. Our tax code
should favor jobs and businesses at home — period,”
Warren said.

Along with these political and mechanical questions, there
is the question of whether such a system, embedded in an
income tax rather than a value added tax or other true
consumption tax, is legal from an international trade
perspective.

Design issues — paying for rate reduction. There may
also be tension among House Republicans given that the
Blueprint has not had a full airing among members -it
was released soon before Congress left for its summer
recess—and the drafting of legislative language may
make apparent what is necessary to achieve the stated
goals, particularly the reduced rates: a 20%statutory
corporate tax rate; a 25%businesstax rate for pass-
through entities; and individual rates set at 12% 25% and
33% Once the details are hashed out, the Blueprint could
present just as many trade-offs as previous serious tax
reform proposals. While the mix of winners and losers
may be different than under other proposals, the ultimate
fate of the Blueprint will still be determined by the same
fundamental political dynamics that would face any tax
reform proposal.

For example, the Blueprint would permit companiesto
fully and immediately deduct the cost of all tangible and
intangible property, with the exception of land. However,
the Blueprint also would correspondingly deny deductions
for net interest expense. Companies must therefore
weigh whether losing interest deductions is a cost they
are willing to incur in exchange for full expensing (and a
20%corporate rate).

The purpose for denying deductions for net interest
expense is to prevent a presumed double benefit from
fully expensing leveraged purchases of property.

However, the exclusion of land from full expensing under
the Blueprint would be particularly severe for debt-
financed purchases of land because the land would not be
eligible for full expensing (or apparently even
depreciation as under current law), while deductions for
interest expense on the debt would not be permitted.

Moreover, the persistent issues under current law
involving the allocation of purchase price between non-
deductible land and immediately deductible
improvements on the land would be intensified under the
Blueprint. Other aspects of paying for a reduced
corporate rate will not come easier in the new Congress.
The allure of reducing businesstax ratesdid not draw
members to support the bill presented to them by former
Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp.

Corporate integration. In the Senate, Finance Committee
Chairman Hatch continuesto go his own direction on tax
reform, touting a corporate integration plan that could be
a substitute for or be complementary to a rate reduction
effort that includes internationaltax reform. Hatch says
he is still aiming to release a corporate integration
discussion draft. Chairman Hatch has said the proposal
could accomplish the international tax reform that is
widely seen as necessary, and the reception to the draft
could dictate how strongly he tries to advance the
proposal next year. The draft is expected to pair a
dividends-paid deduction with a mandatory 35%
withholding tax for dividends and interest. Other senators
and third parties have raised concerns about a corporate
integration plan, including:

» that the proposed 35 %withholding tax expected would
penalize tax-exempt entitieslike retirement plans and
deter foreign investment in the United States; and

» that a dividends paid deduction would, by reducing
corporate tax liability, diminish the effectiveness of
current tax incentives like the R&D credit and
accelerated depreciation, and disadvantage startup
companies more likely to retain their earnings rather
than pay dividends.

Extenders. The fate of tax extenders (and certain other
tax issues) will likely depend on both what can be
accomplished during the 2016 lame-duck session and the
success of the likely focus on tax reform in early 2017.

EY 15

| Election 2016

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022387
