Mind over Computer 29

In the vast, inhospitable Outback it is vitally important you
remember that water can be found at the two rocks near the old gnarled
tree. Forget this and you will die of thirst. It was once thought the skill
evolved through natural selection, but this might not be the correct
explanation. Recent studies show many of us can use mnemonic tricks
to significantly improve our memory. Aboriginal skills might actually be
learned and passed on from generation to generation.

IQ gives us a way to sum up intelligence using a single number
but is this too simplistic? We all have friends who would be our first
call if we met that special someone or lost our jobs. They are often not
the smartest people we know, but they are highly empathetic. These
people have ‘social intelligence. Other friends may fail academic tests
yet demonstrate wonderful musical or artistic ability. They have creative
intelligence. As we dig deeper, more talents emerge: sporting prowess,
organizational brilliance, the ability to inspire loyalty. All these traits
appear independently of academic brilliance.

During the last century, scientists worked hard to understand these
different intelligence traits. The most influential theory came out of
studies done at the United States Army Educational testing service, by
Raymond Cattell and John Horn, and later added to by John Carroll.
Their initials give the theory its name. CHC theory breaks down the
general idea of intelligence into many different subgroups: ‘G’ factors.

If you are good at recalling all the kings and queens of England
in chronological order, or can name every member of the 1966 English
World Cup team or, perhaps, all the members of the baseball Hall of Fame,
you would have high ‘crystalized intelligence’ — ‘Gc. It measures the sum
total of all the things you have learned and retained in your long-term
memory, your store of useful, and useless, facts. On the other hand there
is innate intelligence, the sort that allows you to solve problems where
tapping memory banks is not useful. My family often buy me puzzles for
Christmas, the sort where you manipulate bits of bent metal that appear
linked, but can be separated
with a little ingenuity. These
puzzles test our ability to work
with problems we have never
seen before and is called ‘fluid
intelligence’ — ‘Gf? tn *

We can go further. A good \
tennis player will have high ‘Gt >
and ‘Gv’ scores: ‘t’ for time and
‘Vv for vision, a good pub quiz Metal Puzzle

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015719
