Epstein’s activities—but he tries to sell it to an undercover agent.
Rodriguez is sentenced to 18 months in jail on a charge of theft and
of withholding evidence (and a further two and half years on a related
gun charge). Scott Rothstein, a lawyer whose firm represented
additional girls in their suits against Epstein, also goes to jail for
recruiting investors to pay for these suits on the fraudulent basis that
settlements had already been reached. It’s the largest fraud in Florida
history and Rothstein receives a 50-year sentence.

Then, Brad Edwards, Rothstein’s former partner, sues the
federal government in 2008 for abridging the rights of two of the
original complainants under the Crime Victim Rights Act (giving
victims the right to be consulted about the disposition of their cases)
regarding the Justice Departments agreement not to prosecute in
favor of the state action. In 2014, Edwards tries to ad Virginia
Roberts, another of the original complainants, who has previously
settled with Epstein, to the long-running suit. Roberts who was paid a
settlement under the original terms of Epstein’s agreement—that he
would pay attorney’s fees and not oppose any law suits against
him—is now trying to overturn the agreement under which she was
paid, and, with Edwards, further suing Epstein for $50,000,000.

As the most vocal of the accusers, Roberts, with the Daily Mail
being her prime outlet, emerges now with what is billed as a memoir
of her “sex slavery” with Epstein, written ten years after the fact. She
names a number of people as being at Epstein’s Island home,
including Clinton and Al Gore and his wife, who Epstein’s lawyers
insists were never there—proof available through secret service
records.

The FBI is now arguing that Roberts should not be party to the
suit against the government because she refused to cooperate with
the government in its investigation in 2007, hence has no standing as
a victim. (At the same time, the FBI included her on the list of 40
victims with whom it mandated Epstein reach a settlement.)

It is hard to find a more hyperbolic intersection of media and
lawyers then in Epstein’s case.

Edwards, over the six years of his law suit, tries to depose
Clinton, Donald Trump, and Dershowitz—almost all of his targets
coming directly from the original Vanity Fair and New York Magazine
articles about Epstein.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022724
