disclose bribe payments to the authorities of criminal liabil-

ity did not make the bribes legal.“

Reasonable and Bona Fide Expenditures

The FCPA allows companies to provide reasonable
and bona fide travel and lodging expenses to a foreign
official, and it is an affirmative defense where expenses
are directly related to the promotion, demonstration, or
explanation of a company’s products or services, or are
related to a company’s execution or performance of a con-
tract with a foreign government or agency.'“ Trips that
are primarily for personal entertainment purposes, how-
ever, are not bona fide business expenses and may violate
the FCPA’s anti-bribery provisions.'* Moreover, when
expenditures, bona fide or not, are mischaracterized in a
company’s books and records, or where unauthorized or
improper expenditures occur due to a failure to imple-
ment adequate internal controls, they may also violate
the FCPA’s accounting provisions. Purposeful mischarac-
terization of expenditures may also, of course, indicate a
corrupt intent.

DOJ and SEC have consistently recognized that busi-
nesses, both foreign and domestic, are permitted to pay for
reasonable expenses associated with the promotion of their
products and services or the execution of existing contracts.
In addition, DOJ has frequently provided guidance about
legitimate promotional and contract-related expenses—
addressing travel and lodging expenses in particular—
through several opinion procedure releases. Under the cir-
cumstances presented in those releases,'“ DOJ opined that
the following types of expenditures on behalf of foreign
officials did not warrant FCPA enforcement action:

e travel and expenses to visit company facilities or
operations;

e travel and expenses for training; and

e product demonstration or promotional activities,
including travel and expenses for meetings.

Whether any particular payment is a bona fide expen-
diture necessarily requires a fact-specific analysis. But the
following non-exhaustive list of safeguards, compiled from

several releases, may be helpful to businesses in evaluating

The FCPA:

Anti-Bribery Provisions

whether a particular expenditure is appropriate or may risk

violating the FCPA:

¢ Donot select the particular officials who will par-
ticipate in the party's proposed trip or program'”
or else select them based on pre-determined, merit-
based criteria.

e Pay all costs directly to travel and lodging vendors
and/or reimburse costs only upon presentation of a
receipt.

¢ Donot advance funds or pay for reimbursements
in cash,!*°

e Ensure that any stipends are reasonable approxima-
tions of costs likely to be incurred’! and/or that
expenses are limited to those that are necessary and
reasonable.'?

e Ensure the expenditures are transparent,
both within the company and to the foreign

government.'®

¢ Donot condition payment of expenses on any
action by the foreign official.!*4

e Obtain written confirmation that payment of the
expenses is not contrary to local law.’

e Provide no additional compensation, stipends, or
spending money beyond what is necessary to pay
for actual expenses incurred.'*6
e Ensure that costs and expenses on behalf of the

foreign officials will be accurately recorded in the
company’s books and records.!*”

In sum, while certain expenditures are more likely to
raise red flags, they will not give rise to prosecution if they
are (1) reasonable, (2) bona fide, and (3) directly related
to (4) the promotion, demonstration, or explanation of
products or services or the execution or performance of

a contract.)

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022526
