Now I'll try to pull this together. Stock prices collectively, meaning all shares at
current prices, is called “market cap.” (Cap is capitalization.) Market cap does not
measure the whole underlying value of the issuers, meaning firms that issued the
stock, since there are debt claims that must be paid off first. It measures the equity
residue. It measures that imperfectly because some inefficiency and chicanery are
here to stay. Itis more volatile than the debt claims because it is leveraged, but
probably less volatile, given the observed reality of trends showing smoothed-out
reaction of share prices to news over time, than what would be bid for the
underlying assets, including intangibles, subject to the same debt claims that must

be paid off first.

National accounts measure market-valued (physical) capital by beginning with
market cap. They then add the market value of debt claims on the same issuers,
along with equity and debt claims on the rest of the business sector, and then the
same for the housing sector. The sum is “private wealth.” Consumer durables such
as cars and refrigerators are excluded as impractical to price. Government wealth

net of national wealth is tracked separately, and tends to show as slight or negative.

Finding the Free Growth Index for Stock Markets

My concern in this chapter is the stock market as a data source for testing free
growth theory. Here (4.2) would read total return in place of (net) output, while
growth would be in market cap. Consumption in (4.2) would become dividend yield
in the sense net of capital concurrently raised in new stock issues. The Global
Financial Data website summarizes the history of world stock markets from
inception in about 1700 for U.K., about 1800 in U.S., and later elsewhere. A nice
feature of this data source, and most other sources for stock and security
performance, is that market values are shown from the start. This left no need to
correct for the inevitable lags in depreciation accounting, which gets the news only

in purchases or sales.

Chapter 4 Mill’s Idea 1/11/16 21

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011012
