25

What Are Facilitating or Expediting
Payments?

The FCPA’s bribery prohibition contains a narrow
exception for “facilitating or expediting payments” made in
furtherance of routine governmental action.’ The facili-
tating payments exception applies only when a payment is
made to further “routine governmental action” that involves
non-discretionary acts.' Examples of “routine governmen-
tal action” include processing visas, providing police pro-
tection or mail service, and supplying utilities like phone
service, power, and water. Routine government action does
not include a decision to award new business or to continue
business with a particular party.'*! Nor does it include acts
that are within an official’s discretion or that would consti-
tute misuse of an official’s office.’* Thus, paying an official a
small amount to have the power turned on at a factory might
be a facilitating payment; paying an inspector to ignore the
fact that the company does not have a valid permit to operate

the factory would not be a facilitating payment.

Examples of “Routine Governmental Action”

An action which is ordinarily and commonly
performed by a foreign official in—

obtaining permits, licenses, or other official
documents to qualify a person to do business ina
foreign country;

processing governmental papers, such as visas and
work orders;

 providing police protection, mail pickup and
delivery, or scheduling inspections associated with
contract performance or inspections related to
transit of goods across country;

providing phone service, power and water supply,
loading and unloading cargo, or protecting
perishable products or commodities from
deterioration; or

= actions of a similar nature.

Whether a payment falls within the exception is not
dependent on the size of the payment, though size can be
telling, as a large payment is more suggestive of corrupt
intent to influence a non-routine governmental action. But,
like the FCPA’ anti-bribery provisions more generally, the
facilitating payments exception focuses on the purpose of the
payment rather than its value. For instance, an Oklahoma-
based corporation violated the FCPA when its subsidiary
paid Argentine customs officials approximately $166,000
to secure customs clearance for equipment and materials
that lacked required certifications or could not be imported
under local law and to pay a lower-than-applicable duty
rate. The company’s Venezuelan subsidiary had also paid
Venezuelan customs officials approximately $7,000 to permit
the importation and exportation of equipment and materials
not in compliance with local regulations and to avoid a full
inspection of the imported goods.'® In another case, three
subsidiaries of a global supplier of oil drilling products and
services were criminally charged with authorizing an agent to
make at least 378 corrupt payments (totaling approximately
$2.1 million) to Nigerian Customs Service officials for pref-
erential treatment during the customs process, including the
reduction or elimination of customs duties!

Labeling a bribe as a “facilitating payment” in a com-
pany’s books and records does not make it one. A Swiss
offshore drilling company, for example, recorded pay-
ments to its customs agent in the subsidiary’s “facilitat-
ing payment” account, even though company personnel
believed the payments were, in fact, bribes. The company
was charged with violating both the FCPA’s anti-bribery
and accounting provisions.’

Although true facilitating payments are not ille-
gal under the FCPA, they may still violate local law in the
countries where the company is operating, and the OECD’s
Working Group on Bribery recommends that all countries
encourage companies to prohibit or discourage facilitating
payments, which the United States has done regularly.’
In addition, other countries’ foreign bribery laws, such as
the United Kingdom’s, may not contain an exception for
facilitating payments.' Individuals and companies should

therefore be aware that although true facilitating payments

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022527

