major newspapers, or other publicotions:

(5) Evidence that the alien has recelved significant recognition for
achlevemen!s from organizations, critics, government agencles, or other
recognized experts In the field In which the alien la engaged. Such
testimonials musi be In a form, which clearly Indicates the author's
authorlty, expertise, and knowledge of the allan's achlevements: or

(4) Evidence that the afien has eiffer commanded a high salary o¢ will
command a high salary of other substantial remuneration for services in
relation to others In the fleld, as evidenced by contracts or other refiable
evidence; or

C. if the criteria In paragraph (0)(3)(1v) of this section do not teadily apply to
the beneficiary's occupation, the petitioner may submit comparable
evidence In order to establish the beneficlary's eligibility.

EVIDENCE THAT THE BENEFICIARY MEETS AT LEAST THREE OF THE PFRONGS OF THE
1A R.SUBSECTI

The fist prong that ihe beneficiary solisfies is 8 CFR §214.2{o3)(tviBy 1).

which requires evidence that the allen has performed, and will perform, services
as a lead or staring participant in productions or events which have o
distinguished reputation as evidenced by ceutical reviews, advertisements,
publicity releases, publication contracts, or endorsements.

As a result of Mr. Brunel's combined expertise in fashion and tourism. he
Gecided to create Latin Model Pageants, now known os Models New
Generation. fo cross promote these key industries with international! business and
investment opportunities. Mr. Brunel has promoted ond judged various modeting
coniesis throughout South America including modeling contests staged in
countries such as Peru, Ecuador, Brazil, Argentina, and Chile. Conceived in 1987,
tne Lalin Model of Ihe World eveni was a high-end modeling and enterlainment
produci ihat appeated io upscale international audiences. reaching nearly 400-
milion television viewers worldwide. Throughout his hislory as a major
infernahona: event promoter and artistic and talent coordinator, Mr. Brunel has
orchesirated mulfi-foceted public relations, advertising and media campargns
that incoiporated television, magazines, Programs. newsletters, and promotions,
becoming nofubly lucrative for vonous major brands as a promotional teal. Mr.
Brunel's acule knowledge of markeiing and promoting skills has furned his
various international events into highly successful arhstic and business ventures
for vanous major brands Latin Model Pageéanis offracied major brands as

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011985
