view, the problems in his tenure so far were just problems about the team. If the team
went, the problems went. So Scaramucci had his marching orders. The fact that the
president had been saying the same stuff about his rotten team from the first day, that this
riff had been a constant from the campaign on, that he would often say he wanted
everybody to go and then turn around and say he didnt want everybody to go—all that
rather went over Scaramucci’s head.

Scaramucci began taunting Priebus publicly, and inside the West Wing he adopted a
tough-guy attitude about Bannon—‘T won’t take his bullshit.” Trump seemed delighted
with this behavior, which led Scaramucci to feel that the president was urging him on.
Jared and Ivanka were pleased, too; they believed they had scored with Scaramucci and
were confident that he would defend them against Bannon and the rest.

Bannon and Priebus remained not just disbelieving but barely able not to crack up. For
both men, Scaramucci was either a hallucinatory episode—they wondered whether they
ought to just shut their eyes while it passed—or some further march into madness.

7 OK Ok

Even as measured against other trying weeks in the Trump White House, the week of July
24 was a head-slammer. First, it opened the next episode in what had become a comic-
opera effort to repeal Obamacare in the Senate. As in the House, this had become much
less about health care than a struggle both among Republicans in Congress and between
the Republican leadership and the White House. The signature stand for the Republican
Party had now become the symbol of its civil war.

On that Monday, the president’s son-in-law appeared at the microphones in front of the
West Wing to preview his statement to Senate investigators about the Trump campaign’s
connections to Russia. Having almost never spoken before in public, he now denied
culpability in the Russian mess by claiming feckless naiveté; speaking in a reedy, self-
pitying voice, he portrayed himself as a Candide-like figure who had become disillusioned
by a harsh world.

And that evening, the president traveled to West Virginia to deliver a speech before the
Boy Scouts of America. Once more, his speech was tonally at odds with time, place, and
good sense. It prompted an immediate apology from the Boy Scouts to its members, their
parents, and the country at large. The quick trip did not seem to improve Trump’s mood:
the next morning, seething, the president again publicly attacked his attorney general and
—for good measure and no evident reason—tweeted his ban of transgender people in the
military. (The president had been presented with four different options related to the
military’s transgender policy. The presentation was meant to frame an ongoing discussion,
but ten minutes after receiving the discussion points, and without further consultation,
Trump tweeted his transgender ban.)

The following day, Wednesday, Scaramucci learned that one of his financial disclosure

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020098
