3.2 Some Patternist Principles 37

e What learning processes are utilized for recognizing patterns?
e What mechanisms are used to give the system the ability to introspect (so that it can
recognize patterns in itself)?

Now, these same sorts of questions could be asked if one substituted the word “pattern” with
other words like “knowledge” or “information”. However, we have found that asking these ques-
tions in the context of pattern leads to more productive answers, avoiding unproductive byways
and also tying in very nicely with the details of various existing formalisms and algorithms for
knowledge representation and learning.

Among the many kinds of patterns in intelligent systems, semiotic patterns are particularly
interesting ones. Peirce decomposed these into three categories:

® iconic patterns, which are patterns of contextually important internal similarity between
two entities (e.g. an iconic pattern binds a picture of a person to that person)

e indexical patterns, which are patterns of spatiotemporal co-occurrence (e.g. an indexical
pattern binds a wedding dress and a wedding)

e symbolic patterns, which are patterns indicating that two entities are often involved in
the same relationships (e.g. a symbolic pattern between the number “5” (the symbol) and
various sets of 5 objects (the entities that the symbol is taken to represent))

Of course, some patterns may span more than one of these semiotic categories; and there
are also some patterns that don’t fall neatly into any of these categories. But the semiotic
patterns are particularly important ones; and symbolic patterns have played an especially large
role in the history of AI, because of the radically different approaches different researchers have
taken to handling them in their AI systems. Mathematical logic and related formalisms provide
sophisticated mechanisms for combining and relating symbolic patterns (“symbols”), and some
AI approaches have focused heavily on these, sometimes more so than on the identification of
symbolic patterns in experience or the use of them to achieve practical goals. We will look fairly
carefully at these differences in Chapter 4.

Pursuing the patternist philosophy in detail leads to a variety of particular hypotheses and
conclusions about the nature of mind. Following from the view of intelligence in terms of
achieving complex goals in complex environments, comes a view in which the dynamics of
a cognitive system are understood to be governed by two main forces:

e selforganization, via which system dynamics cause existing system patterns to give rise to
new ones

e goal-oriented behavior, which will be defined more rigorously in Chapter 7, but basically
amounts to a system interacting with its environment in a way that appears like an attempt
to maximize some reasonably simple function

Self-organized and goal-oriented behavior must be understood as cooperative aspects. If an
agent is asked to build a surprising structure out of blocks and does so, this is goal-oriented.
But the agent’s ability to carry out this goal-oriented task will be greater if it has previously
played around with blocks a lot in an unstructured, spontaneous way. And the “nudge toward
creativity” given to it by asking it to build a surprising blocks structure may cause it to explore
some novel patterns, which then feed into its future unstructured blocks play.

Based on these concepts, as argued in detail in [Goe06al, several primary dynamical principles
may be posited, including:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012953
