Knowledge-Based Education vs. Process-Based Education 77

half the students answered correctly that that came from the
Declaration of Independence. Another question said, “Imagine
that you landed in Philadelphia in the summer of 1776. Describe
an important event that is happening there.” Nearly half

the students couldn’t answer the question correctly that the
Declaration of Independence was being signed.

Politicians never seem to get it about education. What history do
students “need to know”? None, actually, unless they plan on being
historians, or maybe senators. Now I realize this is a radical point of
view, but history is not something anyone needs to know.

Why not?

Because knowing what happened in Philadelphia in 1776 does
not in fact make you a better citizen, no matter what Alexander says.
Random historical “facts” do not make one a critical thinker about
history nor do they promote clear thinking about current political
issues. Such “facts” are almost always used by politicians to justify
whatever it is they already believe. Understanding how human events
typically flow is, in fact, quite valuable, but that has more to do with
understanding human nature and prior circumstances than it does
with memorizing facts that politicians deem important to know. A
good citizen would be one who carefully considered the issues when
voting. That would mean being able to diagnose problems and evalu-
ate proposed solutions. But that would produce a citizenry that could
ask hard questions of politicians, which is probably not what these
politicians are aiming for.

In 1776 we had a bunch of politicians who, if the present set are
any example, surely were voting for their own special interests. The
fact that we, as a country, feel the need to make them into folk heroes
does not make it one bit more likely they were any better or worse
than the current people who govern us. What Alexander is really ar-
guing for is more indoctrination—more informing students what to
think instead of teaching them how to think.

It would be nice if one simply could point a finger and say it is all
the politicians’ fault. They really don’t want people to think all that
clearly. But politicians are only part of the problem.

Recently, a report was issued about the teaching of mathematics,
stating:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023823
