4.2.12
WC: 191694

The only theory on which I thought she could possibly succeed was that Brooke’s mother had no
right to surrender her daughter’s privacy and that Brooke, now approaching adulthood, should
have control over her own image.

Ultimately the court ruled, in a bizarre opinion, that Brooke had essentially waived her right to
privacy by allowing the photographs to be published earlier, and by pursuing a career in which she
has relied on her sexuality for her success. The court put it this way:

“Much of plaintiff's recent commercial activity upon which her fame is based has been far
more sexually suggestive than the photographs which have been shown to the court.
These photographs are not sexually suggestive, provocative or pornographic; they do not
suggest promiscuity. They are photos of a prepubescent girl in innocent poses at her bath.
In contrast, defense counsel have submitted numerous samples of sex-oriented publicity
concerning plaintiff. Particularly notable is her widely televised sexually suggestive
advertisement for blue jeans. Recent film appearances have been sexually provocative
(e.g., “The Blue Lagoon”, “Endless Love”’.). Plaintiff's claim of harm is thus undermined
to a substantial extent by the development of her career projecting a sexually provocative
image.

This reasoning fails to distinguish between a 17 year old and a 10 year old. The earlier
photographs were taken of a 10 year old kid, whose mother controlled what she would do. Her
later appearances were made by a near-adult and were far more within her own control. The
court simply ignored the argument by the 10 year old should not be bound by foolish decisions
made by an ambitious mother when Brooke was too young to say no.

I believe that if this case were to come before a court today, in light of the new sensitivity toward
child exploitation, the case would have been cited in favor of Brooke Shields. I had mixed
feelings about the result because it was a victory for the First Amendment, but at a heavy cost to a
young woman about to enter college. Eventually the case was settled and the calendar wasn’t
distributed to Brooke’s Princeton classmates. Brooke Shields went on to a successful career as a
multi-dimensional performer.

Another conflict arose when a blogger posted a naked photograph of a famous athlete’s two year
old son, and in the caption focused the viewer’s attention on the size of the boy’s penis. The issue
I was asked to address was whether the blog met the criteria for child pornography, which is not
protected by the First Amendment. This was an unusual request, since in most of my prior cases
invoking charges of child pornography, I defended the person charged. In one such case, a
medical student who had worked as a camp counselor had taken thousands of photographs of his
campers, including several of them “skinny dipping.” The focus of the photographs was not on
the genitals and we argued that they were no different, as a matter of law, from nude photographs
taken by recognized artists such as Robert Mapplethorpe, Sally Mann and David Hamilton that
were exhibited in museums. I won that case and several others like it.

133

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017240
