4

about how to deal with the growing protests has led to increasingly
violent confrontations inside the regime between would-be reformers
and hard-liners. The outcome of this internal contest remains
uncertain.

What is certain, however, is that what happens in Syria is of great
concern to the whole region. Together with its two principal allies,
the Islamic Republic of Iran and the Lebanese Shiite resistance
movement Hezbollah, Syria is viewed with great hostility by Israel
and with wary suspicion by the United States. The Tehran-Damascus-
Hezbollah axis -- of which Syria is the linchpin -- has long been seen
by many leaders in the region as the lone bulwark against Israeli and
American hegemony. With backing from Washington, Israel has
sought to smash Hezbollah (notably through its 2006 invasion of
Lebanon) and detach Syria from Iran, a country Israel views as its
most dangerous regional rival. Neither objective has so far been
realized. But now that Syria has been weakened by internal problems,
the viability of the entire axis is in danger -- which could encourage
dangerous risk-taking behavior by its allies as they seek to counter
perceived gains by the United States and Israel.

If the Syrian regime were to be severely weakened by popular dissent,
if only for a short while, Iran's influence in Arab affairs would almost
certainly be reduced -- in both Lebanon and the Palestinian
territories. In Lebanon, it would appear that Hezbollah has already
been thrown on the defensive. Although it remains the most powerful
single movement, both politically and on account of its armed militia,
its local enemies sense a turning of the tide in their favor. This might
explain a violent speech delivered earlier this month by the Sunni
Muslim leader and former prime minister Saad Hariri, in which he
blatantly played the sectarian card.

Cheered by his jubilant supporters, he charged that Hezbollah's
weapons were not so much a threat to Israel as to Lebanon's own

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030033
