ADAM BLY

Adam Bly (born 1981 in Montreal, Canada) is founder
and CEO of Seed. He is the editor of “Science is Culture:
Conversations at the New Intersection of Science +
Society” (published by HarperCollins) and the creator
of the data visualization platform Visualizing.org.

He began his career at the age of 16 as the youngest
researcher at the National Research Council of Canada, where
he spent three years studying the biochemistry of cancer,
specifically the role of cell adhesion in metastasis. Out of the
lab, he founded Seed—tag-lined “Science is Culture™’—and
served as its Editor-in-Chief. “The best comparison for Seed,”
wrote a media critic at the time of the magazine’s launch in
2001, “is the early years of Rolling Stone, when music was less a
subject than a lens for viewing culture.” Under his leadership,
the magazine earned critical acclaim for modernizing
scientific publishing and for bridging long-standing divides
between science and society—from art and design to politics
and religion. Together with Paola Antonelli he co-founded a
monthly gathering of scientists, architects, and designers
that laid the foundation for Design and the Elastic Mind,
an exhibition about science and design at The Museum
of Modern Art.

In 2007, Bly was named a Young Global Leader
by the World Economic Forum. He is a recipient of the
Golden Jubilee Medal from Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II
and his achievements have been highlighted by Canadian
Prime Minister Jean Chrétien, “for showing people the
scope and power of science not just as an object of study
but as a key to understanding the world around us.”

Bly has lectured around the world on the future of
science and its role in society, including at the World Economic
Forum, the National Academies of Science, the Royal Society,
the National Institutes of Health, the State Department,
NASA, the Chinese Ministry of Science and Technology, The
Museum of Modern Art, and The Academy of Sciences for the
Developing World, before the National Science Board and the
U.S. House of Representatives, and at universities including
Harvard, MIT, and Beijing. He has served on the nominating
committees and juries of the Buckminster Fuller Challenge,
the Earth Award, and the TED Prize, and sits on the Science
Advisory Committee of the World Economic Forum, the
External Advisory Board of the University of Michigan’s Risk
Science Center, the American Committee of the Weizmann
Institute of Science, the Communications Advisory Board
of the National Academy of Sciences, and as an advisor to
OECD’s Global Project on Measuring the Progress of Societies.

Bly was recently named Vice Chair of the World
Economic Forum’s Global Agenda Council on Design
Innovation and Partner to the Executive Coordination
Office for the Rio+20 United Nations Conference

on Sustainable Development.

SCOTT BOLTON

Dr. Scott Bolton is the Director of the Space Sciences
Department at Southwest Research Institute (SwRI) in San
Antonio, Texas. Dr. Bolton is also the Principal Investigator
for the Juno project, a project within NASA’s New Frontiers
Program. Prior to being Director at SwRI, Dr. Bolton was a
senior scientist and manager at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory
(JPL) for over 25 years. During his tenure as Director of Space
Science at SwRI, Dr. Bolton oversaw the launches of New
Horizons and IBEX, the selection of Juno, the confirmation
of MMS, and the delivery of hardware for a number of non-
NASA programs related to national security. As director of
SwRI’s Space Science Department, Dr. Bolton is responsible
for the approximately 150 engineers and scientists working on
over a dozen programs including new proposals, instrument
development, mission operations and scientific data analysis.

As Principal Investigator of Juno, Dr. Bolton is
responsible for all aspects of the Juno program including
project management by JPL, spacecraft development
at Lockheed Martin, all science instruments, launch
vehicle development and operation, and the resulting
scientific analysis throughout the life of the project. Dr.
Bolton has more than 30 years experience in the field of
aerospace and space science. Dr. Bolton received his B.S.
in Aerospace Engineering from U. Michigan in 1980, and
a Ph.D. in Astrophysics from U.C. Berkeley in 1990.

Dr. Bolton is a Co-Investigator on a number of NASA
missions including experiments on the Cassini mission. Dr.
Bolton chaired the Titan science group for the Cassini-Huygens
mission and was responsible for the formulation of the
scientific investigation of Saturn’s moon Titan. Dr. Bolton has
been a Principal Investigator with NASA on various research
programs since 1988. His research includes the modeling of the
Jovian and Saturnian radiation belts, atmospheric dynamics
and composition, and the formation and evolution of the
solar system. He has authored over 150 scientific papers, five
book chapters, and consulted/appeared in five space science
documentaries. He received the NASA Outstanding Leadership
Medal in 2012, Exceptional Achievement Medal in 2002; the
NASA Exceptional Scientific Achievement Medal in 1994. He
also received JPL Individual Awards for Exceptional Excellence
in Leadership in 2002, 2001, and 1996, and Excellence in
Management in 2000; and has received sixteen NASA Group
Achievement Awards. Dr. Bolton maintains a relationship
with JPL and the California Institute of Technology through
a special appointment as a Senior Staff Scientist.

Dr. Bolton also leads a number of educational
programs aimed at developing science, math and art skills for
children from elementary to high school and college level.

As part of the NASA Juno educational Outreach Program,
Dr. Bolton has dedicated developed educational programs
involving both formal and informal education including the

creation of science and math curriculum driving new national

standards for elementary level education (an age bracket
known to be underserved in this area). Dr. Bolton has worked
with a number of corporate sponsors dedicated to space
science educational programs, including Lego, Universal,
Sony, and Time-Warner. Dr. Bolton helped develope an
innovative educational program, in partnership with the
Lewis Center for Educational Excellence, that provides an
opportunity for elementary to high school level children to
experience the scientific and engineering process directly.
This program trains teachers on science and math education
and provides access to NASA research facilities and scientists
for hundreds of schools around the country. Through his
private company, Artistic Sciences, Inc, Dr. Bolton’s has
produced a number of musical concerts, art exhibits, scientific
documentaries and videos aimed at inspiring and motivating
children in academic studies. He has worked with a number
of musical artists developing both educational and musical
programs. He is one of the founding members of the Vangelis
Foundation in Athens, Greece dedicated to the combined
study of Science, Math, Art, Music and Philosophy.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017533
