°

tonistimmel
March 29, 2014 at 9:40 am — Log in to Reply

The hate “W” machine is still running in spite of the fact that “W” was a better president than Clinton and
Obozo and their combinatuion. I realize that being better than those two is no real accomplishment, but “W” at
least made the list of good presidents, may be not excellent, and definitely not great, a whole lot more than
acceptible.

————— oe

60.
Bob Bitchin'

March 28, 2014 at 6:46 am — Log in to Reply

Call it paranoid, call it conspiracy theory, call it what you watch. I wouldn’t be one bit surprised to find out that
there is/are a puppet master/group of puppet masters in the shadows pushing these douche bag politicians at us
and giving us the illusion that there is a difference in their politics and philosophies when in reality they are all
the same just doing their master’s biding. They will push this liberal agenda just far enough to the edge of the
cliff then pull back and give us back the conservative government so we can take retributions on the liberals for
their treasonous behavior. Heads will roll, asses will get kicked, gays & blacks will once again be of no
consequence and the illegals will be run out of the country. Once things have calmed down, they will change
the politics again and the beat goes on.

SSS wee

61.
willyrho
March 28, 2014 at 7:06 am — Log in to Reply

We knew this when Monica Lewinski “with the Blue Dress with the Semen on it” exposed Billy Clinton, in the
White Hoer House in DC, he had a B.J. with Monica Under the Desk in the Oval Office when he was
impeached, but the Nat See Senate would not convict the Pedophile mur-derer of Vince Foster.

But we see with the new charges coming against the Felon, Hairy Reid, who takes Bribes and Steals as the
DemoNatSee Leader of the Nat See Controlled Senate.

All DemoFascistCrats are Lawless and EVIL.

To think that Ronald Reagan would not remove his Suite Jacket in the Oval Office because he had such respect
and Admiration of the Oval Office. And the DemoNatSees/Fascists/Marxist/Muslims now in the White House
Suck...

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022645
