838

TVPA, assault and battery, intentional in-
fliction of emotional distress, and negli-
gence claims against the SAAR Network
are dismissed. Adel Batterjee’s motion to
dismiss the Burnett complaint is denied.

So ordered.

© & KEY NUMBER SYSTEM

aMms

Lawrence AGEE Plaintiff,
Vv.

Richard GRUNERT, M.D., Chris Fuku-
da, M.D., Fletcher Allen Health Care,
Inc., and Copley Hospital Defendants.

No. 2:00-CV-169.

United States District Court,
D. Vermont.

Oct. 1, 2004.

Background: Physician brought federal
statutory and state contract and tort
claims against former partners in medical
eroup practice and others, after partners
reported his alleged mental unfitness to
practice medicine and placed him on dis-
ability leave. Partners moved for summary
judgment, and physician cross-moved for
summary judgment.

Holdings: The District Court, Sessions,
Chief Judge, held that:

(1) under Vermont law, partners did not
make false and defamatory statements
about physician in reporting his con-
duct;

(2) partners’ statements were conditional-
ly privileged;

(8) physician did not have claim for “re-
striction of trade” against doctors who
raised legitimate concerns about his
fitness to practice;

349 FEDERAL SUPPLEMENT, 2d SERIES

(4) partners’ behavior in reporting physi-
cian’s suspected mental unfitness was
not extreme and outrageous conduct
that intentionally inflicted emotional
distress;

(5) partners did not negligently inflict
emotional distress;

(6) physician failed to exhaust administra-
tive remedies on ADA claim; and

(7) physician was not employee for pur-
poses of ADA claim.

Motions granted in part and denied in
part.

1. Federal Civil Procedure #2554

On defendants’ motion for summary
judgment, district court would not consider
new claims raised for first time in plain-
tiffs memorandum in opposition to motion.
Fed.Rules Civ.Proc.Rule 56, 28 U.S.C.A.

2. Libel and Slander <1

Under Vermont law, the elements of
defamation are: (1) a false and defamatory
statement concerning another; (2) some
negligence, or greater fault, in publishing
the statement; (8) publication to at least
one third person; (4) lack of privilege in
the publication; (5) special damages, unless
actionable per se; and (6) some actual
harm so as to warrant compensatory dam-
ages.

3. Libel and Slander ¢=30

Under Vermont law, partners in medi-
cal practice did not make false and defam-
atory statements in telling hospitals that
physician had been determined to be dis-
abled and that he was on disability leave;
partners were required under ethics code
to question physician’s fitness when he
attempted surgery despite not having slept
for weeks and while on sleep medication,
and their group practice agreement pro-
vided for his acquiescence in determination

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017903
