12/8/2015 Prince Andrew and girl, 17, who sex offender friend flew to Britain to meet him | Daily Mail Online

However, he avoided trial on more serious charges that carried a potential life sentence. And no one
reading The Mail on Sunday's interview with the woman who was prepared to testify against him can
be in any doubt of the seriousness of the charges.

Epstein, a Wall Street money manager who once counted Bill Clinton and Donald Trump among his
friends, became the subject of an undercover investigation in 2005 after the stepmother of a 14-year
old girl claimed she was paid $200 (£125) to give him an ‘erotic massage’.

The subsequent FBI probe uncovered at least 20 girls levelling sexual allegations against him.
Eventually, Epstein struck a ‘plea bargain’ with prosecutors — a practice not permitted under British
law — under which he was allowed to plead guilty to two relatively minor charges.

Police claim that his donations to politicians and his ‘dream team’ of influential lawyers deterred
prosecutors from bringing more serious charges of sex-trafficking. The deal certainly kept the names
of a lot of Epstein’s famous friends out of an embarrassing court case.

However, an unusual part of the agreement was that Epstein’s alleged victims were allowed to bring
civil proceedings against him.

He has so far made 17 out-of-court settlements, and some cases are ongoing. One of these girls
was to have been a key witness for the prosecution had the case gone to trial. She was just 15
years old when she was drawn into Epstein’s exploitative world in 1998.

In her civil writ against him, under the pseudonym Jane Doe 102’ she alleged that her duties
included being ‘sexually exploited by Epstein’s adult male peers including royalty’.

Now, horrified by the evidence of Epstein and
Andrew enjoying each other's company in New
York, Jane Doe 102 has agreed to waive her
anonymity and tell for the first time her deeply
disturbing story.

Her real name is Virginia Roberts and she now
lives in Australia, where she is a happily married
mother of three.

Over the course of a week during which she
spoke at length to The Mail on Sunday, she
appeared sometimes vulnerable, and
sometimes steely, but always quietly resolute
and consistent.

Revisiting events from a past that she had
hoped she had left behind, Virginia occasionally
buried her face in her hands.

Some recollections — and, for reasons of taste,
not all the details can be included here — caused
her to flush with shame. ‘I’m telling you things
that even my husband didn’t know,’ she said.

Virginia, who has undergone counselling to try
to come to terms with her past, is honest about
her initiation into Epstein’s depraved world.

She was a troubled teenager, whose slender
figure, delicate complexion, hesitant voice and
soulful blue eyes made her look young for her
years.

Born in Sacramento, California, in August 1983,
Virginia spent her early years on a small ranch
on the West Coast of America.

This seemingly idyllic childhood ended when she
was sexually molested by a man close to her
family.

The fallout from that led to her parents
temporarily splitting up. Blaming herself, Virginia
began to get into trouble Aged 11, she was sent
to live with an aunt but repeatedly ran away.

Living on the streets, she was beaten up and
slept with at least two older men in return for
food. ‘I was a paedophile’s dream,’ she says.

Three years later, she was reunited with her
family and started a new life with her father who
had moved to Palm Beach,

Florida, where he was maintenance manager at
Donald Trump’s country club, Mar-a-Lago.

Virginia got a part-time job as a changing room
assistant —which is where, soon after her 15th A new life: Virgina, now a mother-of-three, in
birthday, she met Ghislaine Maxwell, who invited —_ Australia

her to work as Epstein’s personal masseuse.

‘| was wearing my uniform — a white miniskirt
and a skin-tight white polo top — when | was approached by Ghislaine,’ Virginia says.

‘| told her | wanted to become a masseuse and she said she worked for a very wealthy gentleman
who was looking for a travelling masseuse.

I'd get training and be paid well.’Virginia’s father gave his blessing, believing his daughter was being
handed the opportunity to learn a skill and to work for a wealthy and respectable employer.

He drove her to Epstein’s pink mansion on the Palm Beach waterfront — he also owns a nine-storey
home in New York, the city’s biggest private residence; a 7,500-acre ranch called ‘Zorro’ in New
Mexico and Little Saint James, a private 70- acre atoll in the US Virgin Islands.

Virginia says: ‘Ghislaine said | was to start immediately and that someone would drive me home.

b singing Christmas
song... as she reveals
remarkably slim post-
baby body

» Edgy ensemble! Kylie
Jenner steps out in
black leather leggings
and a beaded military
jacket after steaming up
Miami

She's a teen style icon

> Melanie Griffith ‘got the
house in Aspen, the
Picasso painting and
$65,000-a-month' in
divorce from Antonio
Banderas

After 19 years together

b'I'm happier taking my
clothes off!’ Heidi Klum
strips to her
underwear... but reveals
she suffers stage fright
on live TV

Supermodel is now 42

»'Time to move on’:
Ariel Winter hints at split
with boyfriend Laurent
Gaudette after two PDA-
filled years

Last photographed
together in November

> 'l wouldn't have put me
on the show either’: Gigi
Hadid says she was
‘shaking’ during
unsuccessful first
Victoria's Secret
audition

>» Who's that boy? Kate
Hudson looks chuffed
as she steps out with
mystery man in New
York City

The 36-year-old has
been playing the field

» What a sweet couple!
Pregnant Ginnifer
Goodwin shares a kiss
with husband Josh
Dallas while eating ice
cream at Disneyland
Happiest place on earth

> Kendall Jenner
showcases her lithe
legs in leather jeans as
she jets out of London
‘on her way to visit baby
Saint in Los Angeles'
Off to meet her nephew

>» Penelope Cruz puts
her ample cleavage and
curvaceous figure on
display in clinging red
leather jumpsuit in new
Zoolander 2 posters
Stars in the sequel

http:/Awww.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-1361039/Prince-Andrew-girl- 17-sex-offender-friend-flew-Britain-meet-him.htm|

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015645

3/29
