Il. THE TEAM

NLV-III will be managed by the New Leaf team, which currently manages NLV-I, NLV-IL, and
provides sub-advisory services managing the remaining healthcare technology investments in
the Sprout Funds. The team of six senior partners, five of whom have worked together
continuously for over a decade, stands out in the industry for its depth of accomplishments,
track record of consistent investment success, and its organizational stability. Each of the senior
partners has a strong combination of significant and relevant industry operating experience and
venture capital investment experience from one or more of the Fund’s targeted sectors. The
New Leaf team is further strengthened by a group of experienced investment professionals who
add highly relevant scientific backgrounds and investment experience.

The following timeline shows the history and progression of the New Leaf team:

History and Progression of New Leaf Team
Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette (DLJ) Qedit Suisse Arst Boston (CSFB) Independent (New Leaf Ventures)
Sprout Growth IL || Sprout Capital VII Sprout Capital VIII} Sprout Capital IX New Leaf New Leaf
$204 million $250 milion $750 milion $1.1 billion * Ventures I Ventures I
HCT: 8% Cost HCT: 40% Cost HCT. 21% Cost HCT: 65% Cost $310 milion $450 million
1993 | 1995, 1997 | 1999 | 2001 | 2003 2005, 2007 2009 2011 2013
s
@ 2

SENIOR TEAM

Philippe Chambon, MD, Ph.D., (55), Managing Director, helped found New Leaf in 2005.
Philippe joined Sprout in 1995 and since that time has been an active investor in all three sectors
of interest for NLV-III. His investments have spanned all stages including six start ups and
several later stage growth equity investments and one buy-out. Philippe is currently focused on
New Leaf’s Information Convergence sector and late stage biopharmaceutical investments.
Philippe is currently on the boards of directors of Treato, Truveris, Karos Pharmaceuticals,
Principia BioPharma and VaxInnate. He was previously on the boards of NxStage Medical
(NASDAQ: NXTM), Auxilium (NASDAQ: AUXL), ePocrates (NASDAQ: EPOC, acquired by
athenahealth), Nuvelo (NASDAQ: NUVO), Sapient Health Network (acquired by WebMD),
Spotfire (acquired by Tibco Software), and Combichem (acquired by DuPont). He also led our
investment in, and was a board observer at, Audax Health (acquired by UnitedHealth/Optum).
Immediately prior to joining Sprout, Philippe was a Manager in the healthcare practice of the
Boston Consulting Group. In that capacity, he managed strategy and business re-engineering
assignments with clients in the pharmaceutical, biotech and insurance industry. Previously,
Philippe was an executive with Sandoz Pharmaceutical for seven years, where he built and led
an organization responsible for late stage clinical project management, portfolio management,
and pre-marketing and pharmacoeconomics activities. He conducted graduate research in

11 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024022
