no charge, and review the work done by tom/ joslin.

joslin you and I should sit. you won't like it. AT ALL> he is afraid of telling you the story, as he belives brad
is your guy and does not want to get fired. ada still refusing to share income tax opinions based on privilege
, not under control at all. ? ? joslin said that murphy is not the cfo, as you told me but the coo. and the cfo is
the same guy that reported to andrew, mistakes after mistakes not picked up by murphy who joslin described
asakind buffoon . he suggested a new ceo or coo who can make decisions. someone with some financail
experience. he asked for a chief decision maker. 50 for year roll in money owed . 30 till july , most up front
needed

Date: Tue, Mar 31, 2015 at 3:25 PM
Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella Po

Nov of 13 : I told you tom Eileen and Ralph were not up to the job, you disagreed very vocally
and strongly ,  Ralph wrote the book, Tom has been doing it for 15 years and Eileen ran the trading desk at
Morgan Stanley.  Ada who had been working on all your documents for years while at the bank had
been brought in- house but created more issues that didn't exist. and phaidon was its own animal

Dec 13. you were again annoyed that i said that they needed to be replaced and said i was talking out of both
sides of my mouth. first time ( email available)

Jan 14, you decided that no third year was necessary for my help. andi told you i thought that unwise and
even suggested giving you an option at 40 m so there would be no tension

Mar 14, I told you that to do the job right , my team would need to do it. not yours it would not be
inexpensive, but it would get done properly, you chose not to do itand said lets wait and see

April 14. We agreed to clean up various past mess.with the end of my work OCT 15th only then would i get
paid.. urged JPM ( first of 14 reminders)
GS and db accounts to be set up in order to bring your financial structure into the 21 century

July 26 , Icame to bens party, said new people needed to be hired, keep Eileen till end of year, and Ada till
march, you suggested getting ada out earlier

oct structured the art partnership , but you wanted to wait until you fully understood ramifications formed the
doc in dec to have it in 14,

nov/ dec 14 I told you I considered my work complete separate from art partnership. gave list of things to do.
three months of you and your high school friend , trying to build a house with little of the relenavt

experience. its silly . still no accurate numbers accounting _, charts, etc

jan 15, I told you joslin cannot hire people, has not so for more than 5 years, former job in a public accounting
firm.

april 15 . no senior accountant even in the wings. joslin talking about reaching out to hire the only person he
knew( worked in the past with dagazsitno ) and i interviewed 15 months ago. and rejected. low level . He
does not want to hire himself out of a job, spoke to brad last night he wants a coo so that he does not feel
demoted

your choice!, ( brad maybe does have insight - to your credit, might have been right when he said- jeffrey you

should realize this is only about leon not wanting to pay more money , ( 1 ignored his summary , along with his
comments on the risk of fracturing

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023348
