lose their entire principal investment. Past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance. Levels and basis for taxation may change.

This report may contain a short-term trading idea or recommendation, which highlights a specific near-term cata

lyst or event impacting the issuer or the market that is an

icipated to have a

short-term price impact on the equity securities of the issuer. Short-term trading ideas and recommendations are different from and do not affect a stock's fundamental equity rating, which

reflects bo
be more or

BofA Merrill Lynch is aware that the

action

includ

wi

may be limited by regulations prohibiting or restricting shortselling in many jurisdictions. Investors are urged
executing any short idea contained in this report.
Foreign currency rates of exchange may adversely affect
ing ADRs, effectively assume c
UK Readers: The protections provided by the U.
located outside of the United Kingdom. BofA
MLPF&S or one of its affiliates is a regular issuer of traded financial instru
time, hold a trading position (long or short) in the securities and financial instruments discussed in this report.
BofA Merrill Lynch, through business units other than Bo

th, and reach different conclusions from, the information presented in
methods of the persons who prepared them, and BofA

recipient of this report.

In the event that the recipient received this report pursuant to a contract

therewith MLPF&S may be deemed

beyond the delivery of this report (unless otherwise agreed specifically in

transactions, including transactions i
Copyright and General Information regarding Research Reports:

Copyri

iOcustom®, iQdatabase® are registered service marks of Bank of America Corporation. T|

ght 2017 Bank of America Con

retransmitted or disclosed, in whole

simultaneously to internal

ha longer term total return expectation and attractiveness for investment relative to other stocks wit!
less positive than a stock's fundamental equity rating.
Futures and options are not appropriate for all investors. Such financial instruments may expire worthless. Before
disclosure documents. Investment strategies explained in this report may not be appropriate at all times. Costs o

hin its Coverage Cluster. Short-term trading ideas and recommendations may

investing in futures or options, clients must receive the appropriate risk
such strategies do not include commission or margin expenses.

implementation of the ideas expressed in this report may depend upon an investor's ability to short securities or other financial instruments and that such

urrency risk.

nany securities mentioned in this report.

review of this research report consti
(including any investment recomme

Materials p

he value, price or income of any security or financial ins

K. regulatory regime, including the Financial Services Scheme, do not a
errill Lynch Global Research policies relating to conflicts of interes

‘A Merrill Lynch Global Research, may have issued and may in the future issue trading ideas or recommenda
his report. Such ideas or recommendations reflect the different time
errill Lynch is under no obligation to ensure that such other trading ideas or recommendations are brought to the

between the recipient and MLPF&S for the provision of research services for a separate fee,
o be acting as an investment adviser, such status relates, if at all, solely to the person with whom MLPF&S has contracted directly and
writing by MLPF&S). MLPF&S is and continues to act solely as a broker-dealer in connection with

rument mentioned in this report. Investors in such secuti

are described at http://go.bofa.com/coi.

ndations, estimates or price targets) without first obtaining expressed permission from an authorized officer of BofA Merrill Lynch.

repared by BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research personnel are based on public information. Facts and views presented in this materia

o seek advice regarding the applicability of such regulations prior to

ies and instruments,

pply in general to business coordinated by BofA Merrill Lynch entities

ments linked to securities that may have been recommended in this report. MLPF&S or one of its affiliates may, at any

ions that are inconsistent
rames, assumptions, views and analytical

attention of any

and in connection

does not extend
the execution of any

poration. All rights reserved. iQmethod, iQmethod 2.0, iQprofile, iQtoolkit, iQworks are service marks of Bank of America Corporation. iQanalytics®,
his research report is prepared for the use of BofA Merrill Lynch clients and may no
or in part, or in any form or manner, without the express written consent of BofA Merrill Lynch. BofA Merri
and client websites and other portals by BofA

t be redistributed,

Lynch Global Research reports are distributed
errill Lynch and are not publicly-available materials. Any unauthorized use or disclosure is prohibited. Receipt and
utes your agreement not to redistribute, retransmit, or disclose to others the contents, opinions, conclusion, or information contained in this report

have not been reviewed by, and may not reflect

information known to, professionals in other business areas of BofA Merrill Lynch, including investment banking personnel. BofA Merrill Lynch has established information barriers between
nd certain business groups. As a result, BofA Merrill Lynch does not disclose certain client relationships with, or compensation received from, such issuers in

BofA

research reports. To the extent this report discusses any legal proceeding or issue
hould consult their ow
ny BofA
n public information. Facts and views presented in this material that relate to any such proceedings have not been reviewed by, discussed with, and may not reflect information known to,
sionals in other business areas of BofA Merrill Lynch in connection with the legal proceedings or matters relevant to such proceedings.

port has been prepared independently of any issuer of securities mentioned herein and not in connection with any proposed offering of securities or as agent of
ities. None of MLPF&S, any of i

ou

rofes,

ovo

report
Any in

The in

his re

errill Lynch Global Research a

=)

errill Lynch entity and/or

Research policy prohibits rese
containing such rating, recom!
ormation relating to the tax s

contained on such third-party websi

any af

submitting any personal in
Certain outstanding repor'

iliation with BofA Merrill Lync!

recent research report relating to an

In some cases, an issuer may be classified as Restric
its security and/or financial

ormation to them. BofA

its directors, officers and employees may be plaintiffs, defendants, co-defendants or co-plaintiffs with or involving issuers mentioned i

mendation or investment thesis.

issuer prior to making an investment decision.

atus of financial instruments discussed herein is not intended to provide tax advice or to be used by anyone to provide tax advice.
seek tax advice based on their particular circumstances from an independent tax professional.
ormation herein (other than disclosure information relating to BofA Merrill Lynch and its affiliates) was obtained from various sources and we do not guarantee i
may contain links to third-party websites. BofA Merrill Lynch is not responsible for the content of any third-party website or any linked content contained in a third-par
es is not part of this report and is not incorporated by reference into this report. The inclusion of a link in this report does not im
h. Access to any third-party website is at your own risk, and you should always review the terms and privacy policies at third-party websites before
errill Lynch is not responsible for such terms and privacy policies and expressly disclaims any liability for them.
s may contain discussions and/or investment opinions relating to securities, financial instruments and/or issuers that are no longer current. Always refer to the most

ed or may be Under Review or Extended Review. In each case, investors should consider any investment opinion
instruments) to be suspended or withdrawn and should not rely on the analyses and investment opinion(s) pertaining to such issuer (or i

s, it has not been prepared as nor is it intended to express any legal conclusion, opinion or advice. Investors
egal advisers as to issues of law relating to the subject matter of this report. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research personnel’s knowledge of legal proceedings in which

n this report is based

any issuer of any

s affiliates or their research analysts has any authority whatsoever to make any representation or warranty on behalf of the issuer(s). BofA Merrill Lynch
arch personnel from disclosing a recommendation, investment rating, or investment thesis for review by an issuer prior to the publication of a research
nvestors are urged to

ts accuracy. This report
y website. Content
ply any endorsement by or

relating to such issuer (or
s securities and/or

financial instruments) nor should the analyses or opinion(s} be considered a solicitation of any kind. Sales persons and financial advisors affiliated with MLPF&S or any of its affiliates may not

solicit purchases of securities or financial instrumen

s that are Restricted or Under Review and may only solicit securities under Extended Review in accordance with

irm policies.

Neither BofA Merrill Lynch nor any officer or employee of BofA Merrill Lynch accepts any liability whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential damages or losses arising from any use of

this re

port or its contents.

36

Global Equity Volatility |

nsights | 06 June 2017

nkof America

Merrill Lynch

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023610
