seduction. Well-known pickup artist gurus can make millions of dollars per year: they
may sell books; they may sell hours of coaching; they may organize training
bootcamps or conventions with pricy tickets; they may run companies full of
instructors trained in their methods. The community even generates its own well-thought-

out internal critiques.

I am a sex-positive feminist lecturer and writer. I write primarily about my experiences
with sadomasochism, but I have a general interest in sexuality. I first encountered pickup
artists when smart ones started attending my educational events and commenting on my
blog.

Some aspects of pickup artistry are hugely problematic; many parts of the community
showcase and encourage misogyny. While exploring the PUA jungle, I observed things
that turned my stomach and brought tears to my eyes. On the other hand, I had to admit
that some pickup artist perspectives were very interesting. Some had fascinating insights
about gender theory and social power. I also felt drawn by their exploits. Learning
seduction, and watching hypothetically-dazzling Casanovas run a courtier-like game,
sounded like an extremely fun way to spend my time.

I started my journey by talking to a few pickup artists and reading their fora. By the end, I
had given a lecture at a seduction convention, and I had decided against developing my
own coaching business. Today, I can offer a quick synopsis of my own history, and why I
became so interested in PUAs. I will break down some elementary distinctions among the
men of the seduction community. Finally, I will offer a few PUA-influenced thoughts on
feminist goals.

te Kk ok

I was an awkward little bookworm of a child, but at least I was creative. I liked to draw,
invent games, and run amateur social experiments. When I was in high school, most of
my friends were on the Internet; I did not date a real-life boyfriend until college. I was
inevitably teased by my peers, but even when treated well, I rarely engaged with the
social hierarchies around me. I had difficulty grasping how social mechanics were
supposed to work. A lot of things seemed obvious to other people that were not obvious
to me.

For example, in sixth grade, a female friend of mine teased me about flirting with a boy.
What was I doing? I asked. Come on, you were flirting! she responded. While I
thought I almost understood what she meant, I was unsure -- so I set out to poll everyone
I knew about what constitutes flirting. Responses were inconsistent. One person said,
very definitely: Giggling. Others cited examples such as intense looks or making
jokes.

By the end of this experiment, I concluded that no one seemed able to explain flirting in
terms of consistent behaviors; there were few commonalities in my final list. From what I
could tell, flirting could only be explained in terms of invisible interpersonal dynamics. I
found this both entertaining and frustrating.

I sometimes wonder what would have become of me if the modern pickup artist
community had existed back then, and I had discovered it. PUAs devote a lot of time to

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018664
