EP: What’s your take on Trump and
Russia?

PK: I read one article where an uniden-
tified Russian official used the phrase
“useful idiot”. That’s really what it is.

It’s like J. Edgar Hoover; he stayed

around for decades [via] blackmail. I
think it’s the same thing, You don’t have
to say it, you know. Hoover would just go
to JFK and say, “We found some photo
of you in bed with Marilyn Monroe. But
don’t you worry, we'll keep it in our safe.”
EP: You've lived through some Red scares;
can you imagine any other time where
this Russia stuff would be forgiven?
PK: | think foreign countries may have
influenced previous elections.
I don’t know, but it was mostly
before the technology of the
Internet. So, if there’s no In-
ternet, there ain’t no hackin’.
It’s like there ain’t no divorce
if you don’t have no marriage!
Whatever deal was made, or
hacked, I think Trump decided
to run the night of the 2011
Washington Correspondent’s
Dinner. Obama had such
Sood jokes that night. But the
camera was on Trump, and you
could see that he was foaming.
EP: That shot of him is amazing.
The video of Trump’s boiling
back head. It’s really gorgeous.
PK: Humiliation makes a differ-
ence. You know, years before
any of this, Trump developed
his modus operandi for media/
political success: You cheat.
What pushed him into public profile was
the stated success of his book, The Art of
the Deal. But what I found out that is that
he bought 20,000 copies of his own book
from Random House, and that made it a
New York Times Best Seller.

Similarly, L Ron Hubbard had his book
Dianetics. He had a Scientologist working
at The New York Times who had access
to the details of their best sellers lists.
Back then, there was a list of cities that
the Times measured sales at particular
book stores. So, Hubbard didn’t have to
buy 20,000 copies, he just had his spy tell
him where to buy several copies at those
locations, and the Church of Scientology
had an instant “Best Seller”.

EP: Earlier you mentioned two interesting
words: “assassination” and “impeach-
ment”. You have the benefit of having

lived through Kennedy and Nixon.

PK: My earliest remembrance of a Presi-
dent was Franklin D Roosevelt.

EP: Do you remember him on the radio?
PK: Yes. He was famous for having his
Fireside Chats. Which, through these
decades, has evolved into tweets.

EP: Here’s a very pointed question: When
Kennedy got shot — what's your memory
of that?

PK: Several memories. One was my first
wife was out shopping, heard it on some-
body’s radio, and immediately bought a
TV set. That’s one thing I remember, just
being glued to the television...And I was
getting calls, maybe not that day, but from

Cartoon by Wende, from The Realist #37, Sept. 1962.

people wanting to write an article about
the conspiracy aspect of it. You know of
Jean Shepherd, right?

EP: Of course.

PK: He was a big influence on me. He said,
“This will change the whole country.” He
thought it was a coup. And it turned out
that the CIA had the Mafia do it. After
all of my studying about it, that’s what it
was. The Mafia were the puppets of the
puppeteer in that.

I would listen to Jean Shepherd every
night, and he said — he predicted — that
America would have a dictator who won
the presidency because he came out of
show business. And it happened. You
know, [Trump’s] not like Ronald Reagan,
who came out of Hollywood, of course.
But in Reagan’s case, he couldn’t make
the distinction between reality and his

movie roles. But he did say he was willing
to take a senility test! Of course, the sug-
gestion that he’d take a senility test is a
suggestion that you already are senile.
EP: Right. That’s very funny.
PK: Jumping back to Trump. Along the
same lines of the buying the 20,000
copies of his book, the first day of his
presidential campaign, he came down
the Trump Tower elevator. There were
people with placards, saying “TRUMP
2016” — but they were all hired actors.
Fifty of ‘em.
EP: You know, the success of that red hat
really disturbs me. It’s so idiotic — but it
really seemed to work.
PK: I agree. No other presiden-
tial candidate had a cap like
that. And a slogan. I’ve seen
people on TV asked, “What do
you think about the election?”
One elderly woman said, “Oh
it’s wonderful! We're going to
Make America Great Again!”
EP: How could they win on a
campaign of awful messages?
Maybe Steve Bannon is some
AD&D wizard, casting a spell
that everything negative
becomes positive. “Trust me
Trump: kick babies instead of
kiss them. It ll work!”
PK: I agree that’s possible.
But it’s narcissism that made
Trump do this. Narcissism with
skin so thin, it’s inside out.
That’s what he was
doing, too, during the cam-
paign. If your skin is inside out,
then it’s projecting. Hillary “was a crook,”
but he was. He called Bernie Sanders
“crazy” and he was. “Lyin’ Ted Cruz”...
EP: Why do you think those nicknames
were so effective? It seemed, once you
were labelled by him, you were done.
PK: Bush had his nicknames, but they
were favorable. He called Karl Rove his —
EP: “Turd Blossom”!
PK: Right, “Turd Blossom” ...and he was.
EP: The prettiest turd.
PK: Regarding Trump’s narcissism, here’s
my favorite joke: Trump was in the eleva-
tor of Trump Tower. It stopped on one
floor and a woman got in. She said, “Oh!
You're Donald Trump! Oh my, I would
love to give you a blow job. I really would.
I have a great reputation. I will make it
that you will never forget this blow job.
I really am good. I practice a lot. And I

Ww

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023639

