murky. Sure, Goldman Sachs partners and tech fortunes, but what to make of
a Coney Island, Zelig-like no-namer?

In 1994, just at the moment when Prince Charles is on television
acknowledging his love for Camilla Parker Bowles, Jeffrey Epstein is sitting
with his arm around Princess Diana at a dinner at the Serpentine Galley in
London (Diana 1s wearing her “revenge” dress that evening). Graydon
Carter, into his second years as editor of Vanity Fair, is also at the dinner.
Epstein’s rise and Carter’s rise are not, with a little critical interpretation,
that different. Both are a function of the age of new money, both are helped
by strategic relationships with the exceptionally wealthy (i.e. they are social
climbers), both men have made themselves up. To say that Epstein, in the
company of the Princess, sticks in Carter’s craw would be an
understatement. Epstein becomes one of the “what do you know about him”
figures in Carter’s gossip trail—a story waiting to happen. A variety of the
gossip that begins to circulate about Epstein—for instance, that he secretly
films his guests—is seeded by Carter, who once advised me not to go to
Epstein’s house or accept a ride in his car least I risk being blackmail. (“For
what?” I asked Carter. “For you have no idea,” said Carter.)

Epstein is playing a cat and mouse game with his own growing wealth
and influence. He 1s private and secretive, but grandly so. He joins the board
of Rockefeller University. He’s suddenly on the Trilateral commission, that
cabal of business people who fancy themselves, and who are fancied by
conspiracy buffs, as running the world. He buys from his client Limited
Founder Les Wexner the larges private house in Manhattan. (Rumors will
continue for many years, that Wexner owns the house and Epstein is just
squatting in it—an 18-year squat.) He buys an airplane. He buys another. He
expands his holdings in New Mexico. He begins a Zanadu refurbishment of
his Caribbean Island.

He befriends Bill Clinton in his new after-office life.

And that’s quite the fatal pairing.

The post-Monica Clinton, now having pardoned the on-the-lam
financier Marc Rich, is suddenly being ferried around in the jet of...who
exactly?

The New York Post is the first to take formal media note of the
Clinton-Epstein connection, hinting at a sex and money bromance. The
instinctively private Epstein is not just increasingly exposed, but clearly
curious about the nature of exposure.

I met Epstein around this time. Epstein had become a more and more
active backer of advanced scientific research—ultimately he will donate $30

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022719
