NAUTILUS EDUCATION | BETA PRODUCT

avuncular and black-haired. His interests are broad:
He spends his spare time writing and reading history,
and has authored books on conflict in the Middle East
and the role of Christian missionaries in China.

A lifetime in fuels chemistry left Fang with one
burning question: “What is the real solution to the
energy crisis?” His career at oil companies BP and
ExxonMobil, and engine manufacturer Cummins,
spanned not just one but two major energy upheav-
als—the oil crisis of the 1970s and then its sequel in
the first decade of the 21st century, which is arguably
still ongoing. These experiences impressed on Fang
the importance of securing the fuel supply in such
a way as to avoid despoiling the environment. The
solution, says the bespectacled chemist, is “nature-
sourced biomass or natural gas converted effectively
to gas or diesel.”

Primus’s original idea was simple: take scrap wood
or other biomass, turn tt into pellets, and apply pres-
sure and heat (700 degrees Celsius or more) to break
it down into hydrogen and carbon monoxide. Then
build this composite “syngas,” shorthand for “synthet-
ic gas,” back up into whatever hydrocarbon product is
desired—the molecules of eight carbon and 18 hydro-
gen atoms known as iso-octane that are a measure
of the quality of conventional gasoline, or the longer
chains of similar hydrocarbons that comprise diesel or
jet fuel. Because plant biomass absorbs carbon dioxide
as it grows, the emissions produced by burning the
biofuel should balance out overall—every molecule of
CO2 emitted when the fuel is burned was previously
absorbed by the plant that made the fuel.

The story of the search for such green fuel 1s lit-
tered with disappointments, however. Major compa-
nies brew ethanol in large quantities in the United
States. It is routinely added to gasoline (at levels of
around 10 percent, on its way to 15 percent) as a way
to improve combustion, reduce pollution, and support
industrial corn farmers. But most ethanol is still made
from the edible kernels of com plants, instead of the
inedible cellulose that was promised in the heady days
of the mid-2000s, when Congress passed a spate of
laws promoting biofuel production. Since 1978, the
ethanol industry has enjoyed subsidies and tax credits
to the order of 40 cents per gallon, and now produces
an annual dead zone at the mouth of the Mississippi

24

River each summer as a result of fertilizer washing off
the endless cornfields of the Midwest. But ethanol is
unlikely to ever fully replace conventional fossil fuels,
since it is more difficult to transport, produces a frac-
tion of the energy of oil, and would require engines to
be refitted or replaced on a massive scale.

Hence the interest in “drop-in” biofuels as a sub-
stitute for conventional fuels in existing cars, planes,
and trucks. The problem is not one of infrastructure,
but chemistry: Companies must find a way to eco-
nomically imitate and fast-track a process for which
time and geology have done most of the work in con-
ventional fossil fuels. The energy in these fuels is the
pent-up power of ancient sunlight, which billions of
photosynthetic microorganisms soaked up before
dying, fossilizing, and turning into the hydrocarbon-
rich stew we know as petroleum, and from which we
refine gas, diesel, and jet fuel, among other products.
In theory, then, it should be possible to turn the car-
bohydrates and other chemicals that store energy for
today’s living things into the hydrocarbons we rely on
for transportation.

Potential routes to such “green crude” include
algae, other photosynthetic organisms, and specialty
microbes engineered to spit out hydrocarbons. Biofuel
company Solazyme has a contract to supply United
Airlines with 20 million gallons of algal jet fuel, and
teamed up with a green fuel-station network to offer
biodiesel in a test run in San Francisco’s Bay Area. But
it takes a lot of water—and a lot of energy to move that
water around—in order to grow algae in large quan-
tities, and tailor-making microbes is expensive at its
current scale. As a result, companies are diversifying.
Algal fuel producer Sapphire Energy is now focusing
on isolating the genetic traits in the ancestors of all
plants that might be usefully incorporated into other
crops. Solazyme is making oils and specialty fats to sell
at high margins to cosmetics and food companies, as
is would-be microbial fuel-maker Amyris. The industry
for “advanced biofuels is literally mm its infancy,” con-
cedes Jonathan Wolfson, Solazyme CEO.

The allure of Primus’s technology 1s its promise to
harness waste wood and other inedible biomass that
would otherwise be thrown into landfills, and turn
it ito a renewable source of gasoline. Its “syngas to
gasoline plus” process consists, essentially, of four

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015484
