142 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

Russia by design or by accident. Whenever an intelligence worker
steals sensitive compartmented information of interest to a foreign
adversary and then defects to that adversary, it raises at least the
specter of state-sponsored espionage. It is a commonly accepted pre-
sumption in counterintelligence that a spy, fearing arrest, flees to
a country that has some reason to offer him protection. When the
British spies Guy Burgess, Donald Maclean, and Kim Philby fled to
Moscow during the Cold War, the presumption was that they had a
prior intelligence connection with Russia. Philby confirmed that in
his 1968 memoir, My Silent War. So in the case of Snowden, coun-
terintelligence had to consider the possibility that his theft of state
secrets and his arrival in Moscow might not be totally coincidental.

Snowden blamed high officials in the U.S. government who pur-
posely “trapped him” in Russia. He told the editor of The Nation,
“I’m in exile. My government revoked my passport intentionally to
leave me exiled” and “chose to keep me in Russia.” He repeated that
assertion over a dozen times, but as we’ve seen, it had no basis in
fact. Whenever criminal charges are lodged against a U.S. citizen by

© the Department of Justice, the State Department, in accordance with ©
the U.S. code of justice, marks in the electronic passport validation
advisory system that that person’s passport is valid only for return
to the United States. After criminal charges were publicly filed
against Snowden on June 21, it advised foreign governments that
because Snowden was wanted on felony charges, he “should not be
allowed to proceed in any further international travel, other than is
necessary to return him to the United States.” Rather than “exiling”
Snowden, the government acted to facilitate his return home. With
his passport, he could have flown home from either Hong Kong or
Moscow, where he, like any other person accused of a felony, would
face the charges against him. Snowden’s unfounded claims suggested
to investigators that he had something to hide about his arrival in
Russia.

The counterintelligence investigation had access to State Depart-
ment records showing that its representatives in Hong Kong had
informed authorities there on June 16 that there were criminal
charges against Snowden. Only a typographical error in spelling out
Snowden’s middle name—James instead of Joseph—in the criminal

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 142 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019630
