We may see some fireworks in US-China relations during the Trump administration.

With respect to trade, President-elect Trump
can use any one of six US statutes, including the
Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917 and the
International Emergency Economic Powers Act of
1977, to shift trade policy. The latter two statutes
give him latitude to change foreign commerce
without interference from Congress or the courts.

President-elect Trump has advocated
imposing tariffs and labeling China a “currency
manipulator.” While he has continued to
threaten tariffs of 45% on imports from China,
there is considerable uncertainty as to what
his administration will actually impose. If the
US and China engage in a full trade war, the
Peterson Institute for International Economics has
estimated a notable drag on US GDP growth over
three years.”

Any of these actions by the Trump
administration may provoke a strong reaction
from China, including a sizable depreciation of the
renminbi. Such depreciation would certainly be
disruptive to financial markets.

With respect to foreign policy, many policy
experts have been calling for a change in strategy
toward China. In April 2015, the Council on
Foreign Relations published a special report on
China, suggesting that Washington needed “a
new grand strategy toward China that centers
on balancing the rise of Chinese power rather
than continuing to assist its ascendancy.”” The
militarization of the seven artificial islands in the
South China Sea (see image on page 33), according
to the Asia Maritime Transparency Initiative at the
Center for Strategic and International Studies,”
will only expedite such a shift in strategy.

If President-elect Trump’s actions to date,
such as the telephone conversation with Taiwan
President Tsai Ing-wen” and his response to the
recent Chinese seizure of a US Navy drone,” are
any indication, we may see some fireworks in US-
China relations during the Trump administration.

34 | Goldman Sachs | JANUARY 2017

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014567
