The book is filled with writing exercises that prompt readers to reflect on everything from
body image to sexual assault. It's essentially a guide to writing one's own personal sexual
manifesto.

Among BDSMers, an example of this approach is the multi-page checklists that some
BDSMers use. (I already wrote about this in my piece Sex Communication Tactic
Derived From S&M: Checklists,” reprinted earlier in this book; just in case you haven't
read it, I'll briefly describe them.) Checklists are essentially lists of every conceivable
BDSM.-related act; each act on the checklist looks something like this:

FLOGGING -- GIVING O0O000
FLOGGING -- RECEIVING O0O000

Each partner rates each entry by filling out 1-5 bubbles, with 1 darkened bubble meaning
Not interested and 5 bubbles meaning I crave this! This type of explicit
communication is both an excellent way to help partners understand each other's desires
-- and to help partners understand each other's boundaries. In a way, this sort of thing
could be seen as Master Class consent communication.

This was the context whence I emerged when I started investigating pickup artistry. Iam
a feminist, but I'm a flavor of feminist with a troubled history within the movement. I am
an advocate for explicit communication, but I believe that no aspect of consent should be
ignored, and I am concerned that many feminists and BDSMers give a certain
unwarranted privilege to explicit verbal communication over implicit or non-verbal
communication.

People seem likely to develop a preference for explicit communication if it seems more
necessary. For instance, many BDSMers develop a preference for explicit communication
because our desires are unusual and precise, and complicated words will help us get what
we want. Feminists develop the same preferences because explicit communication is the
clearest way to ensure sexual consent. Accordingly, some people attempt to promote
explicit sexual communication by saying: We should make it necessary.

Here's an example exchange from the comments on a thoughtful feminist BDSM blog. A
male commenter asks:

I once had an argument with a very good female friend of mine about kissing. She was
perturbed about a date who asked her if he could proceed to kiss her. She said the man
Should just know. It should be instinctual and u lose the moment as soon as u ask. I said
that was bs, the first move is one of the most nerve wracking things, the very fact that he
asked shows his politeness and tact and frankly a lack of presumptuousness.... What do
you think? What's the line between politeness and passivity?

The feminist blogger, an intelligent and awesome lady who goes by the name Holly
Pervocracy, responds that:

I don't say this very often, but you lose the moment as soon as you ask girls really are
ruining it for the rest of us.

As far as I'm concerned, they can go without ever being kissed until they wise up.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018670
