ATTERSON Fittyy Ricw

* ing me. And mentioning me over her desire not to mention
me, yes.
ou swearing under oath encour- 10:20 a.m.

clude allegations of an encounter
» ranch? : What was the name of the person?
: Her name is—her first name is Rebecca.
Yes.
I don’t know the last name.
: Did you attempt to find out her last name?
: [have her last name written down, but—
Where?
: It's in my—in my notes. And I could get it for you...
When did you write Rebecca’s name down?
When she—when she first called me—let me be very clear,
since you've asked me the question.

At first her husband and she called me on the phone. They
would not give me their names. But they told me [the] story. We
had a series of phone conversations in which I asked them,
please, to tell me their names. And after a period of time, after
they told me the story in great detail, she was willing to give me
her name. She asked me to promise that I would not disclose
her identity without her permission. I have been trying to call
her. Called her as recently as this morning and last night.

I want to recall—I don’t think I called her this morning.
I called her twice last night to try to get her permission to
reveal her complete name and identity. But I have the name,

and I will be happy to give it to you. I just don’t have it off the
top of my head.

our clients, both Judge Cassell
both involved in encouraging
rious affidavit that they knew or
perjurious recently when they

matory allegation in the federal

that what you are charging Brad-
Paul Cassell with doing was sub-

Pore ere oy om OB

e question, I am directly charging
dwards with suborning perjury. I
irginia Roberts did not want to ©
ds that she did not want to men- ©
pressured by her lawyers into 4
: allegations against me. Yes, your ~
ng perjury. 3
Edwards pressured Virginia Rob-
you?
ts who called me out of the blue
rrified by what was happening to
d meetings with Virginia Roberts
old her that she never mentioneé

ryers pressured her into mentt 7

r

ar
a

254

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022152
