Tenant Overview

United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS” or “CIS) is a component of the
United States Department of Homeland Security (DHS), which in turn is under the General Services
Administration (GSA). It performs many administrative functions formerly carried out by the former United
States Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), which was part of the Department of Justice. —

The stated priorities of the USCIS are to promote national security, to eliminate immigration case backlogs,
and to improve customer services. USCIS is headed by a director, currently Leon Rodriquez, who reports
directly to the Deputy Secretary for Homeland Security. USCIS consists of 18,000 federal employees and
contractors working at 250 offices around the world.

USCIS is charged with processing immigrant visa petitions, naturalization petitions, and asylum and refugee
applications, as well as making adjudicative decisions performed at the service centers, and managing all
other immigration benefits functions (i.e., not immigration enforcement).

USCIS’ official website is USCIS.gov which includes an online appointment scheduling service known as
INFOPASS. This system allows people with questions about immigration to come into their local USCIS
d
it

office and speak directly with a government employee about their case. Additionally, USCIS maintains a
blog entitled “The Beacon” as well as the “@uscis” Twitter account.

Unlike most other federal agencies, USCIS is funded almost entirely by user fees. Under President George
W. Bush's FY2008 budget request, direct congressional appropriations made about 1% of the USCIS budget
and about 99% of the budget was funded through fees. The total USCIS FY2008 budget was projected to
be $2.6 billion.

no

\ U.S. Citizenship
and Immigration

Exceptional Credit Tenancy - i~< * Services
Boasting an “AA+ credit rating by S&P and an “Aaa” credit rating by Moody’s, the lease is guaranteed by
the United States of America.

High Renewal Probability -
The General Services Administration’s lease renewal probability is 96% in new, first generation space such
as the Property, and the GSA remains in its space for over 25 years on average.

US CITIZENSHIP
AND IMMIGRATION
SERVICES

Page 12 GSA Investment & Acquisition Opportunity | St Thomas, USVI ee) Stan Johnson Company | THE NET LEASE AUTHORITY®

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018738
