4.2.12
WC: 191694

This situation was different; because the only purpose of publishing the child’s photograph was to
call attention to his penis. Moreover, his parents had not consented their child to being
photographed by a paparazzi on an isolated beach, and so the family’s privacy rights had been
violated. Eventually, the matter was resolved by “the court of public opinion” and the
“marketplace of ideas.” Viewers of the blog were so outraged and the person who posted it so
roundly condemned, that the post was removed.

Another area of conflict between the First Amendment and other provisions of the Bill of Rights
arises in the context of criminal trials, when the media seeks to publish information—such as an
excluded confession—that may prejudice a defendant’s right to a fair trial. A variation on this
theme is the media’s refusal to publish the names of alleged rape victims, while publishing the
names and mug shots of the defendant. This practice does not directly impinge on the First
Amendment because the decision not to publish is made by the media, rather than the
government. Indeed, the Supreme Court has struck down a statute that precluded the media from
publishing the names of alleged crime victims.

I have been involved in several cases that pitted the rights of the media under the free speech
rights of the First Amendment, against the fair trial rights of criminal defendants under the Sixth
Amendment. I have generally been on the side of the First Amendment, while sympathizing with
the situation faced by defendants who would prefer to see the press muzzled when it came to their
cases.

One case in which I sided with the privacy rights of a public figure over the publication rights of
the media was Chappaquiddick. I was part of the defense team organized by Senator Kennedy’s
staff. Part of my job was to assure the confidentiality of the testimony given at the inquest
concerning the death of Mary Jo Kopenche. The witnesses who were subpoenaed to testify at
this secret inquest—especially the young women who shared the house for the weekend—were
not offered the right to counsel or other rights available at an open proceeding. We argued with
some success, that because the inquest was secret and lacked the usual legal safeguards of public
hearings, the right of the witnesses to confidentiality trumped the right of the media to immediate
disclosure.

The First Amendment requires that the media and dissenters need breathing room and
presumption should always be in favor of a maximalist view of free speech. But this presumption
is not without significant risks to deservedly good reputations which can be damaged by
defamatory or ridiculing speech. As with other potentially harmful types of expression,
defamation and ridicule come with a heavy price—one we must be prepared to pay to keep the
First Amendment vibrant. Not everyone is prepared to pay that price.

154

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017241
