breakdown of her pets, measurements, and favorite foods (e.g., swordfish). If all Bangalorians are like
Honey, I pity Americans about to graduate college. They’re up against a hungry, polite, Excel-proficient
Indian army.

IN FACT, in the next few days, I outsource a whole mess of online errands to Asha (from the personal
service YMII): paying my bills, getting stuff from drugstore.com, finding my son a Tickle Me Elmo.
(Actually, the store was out of Tickle Me Elmos, so Asha bought a Chicken Dance Elmo—good
decision.) I had her call Cingular to ask about my cell-phone plan. I’m just guessing, but I bet her call
was routed from Bangalore to New Jersey and then back to a Cingular employee in Bangalore, which
makes me happy for some reason.

IT’S THE fourth morning of my new, farmed-out life, and when I flip on my computer, my e-mail
inbox is already filled with updates from my overseas aides. It’s a strange feeling having people work for
you while you sleep. Strange, but great. ’'m not wasting time while I drool on my pillow; things are
getting done.

HONEY IS my protector. Consider this: For some reason, the Colorado Tourism Board e-mails me all
the time. (Most recently, they informed me about a festival in Colorado Springs featuring the world’s
most famous harlequin.) I request that Honey gently ask them to stop with the press releases. Here’s what
she sent:

Dear All,

Jacobs often receives mails from Colorado news, too often. They are definitely interesting topics.
However, these topics are not suitable for “Esquire.”

Further, we do understand that you have taken a lot of initiatives working on these articles and
sending it to us. We understand. Unfortunately, these articles and mails are too time consuming to be
read.

Currently, these mails are not serving right purpose for both of us. Thus, we request to stop sending
these mails.

We do not mean to demean your research work by this.
We hope you understand too.
Thanking you,
Honey K B

That is the best rejection notice in journalism history. It’s exceedingly polite, but there’s a little

undercurrent of indignation. Honey seems almost outraged that Colorado would waste the valuable time
of Jacobs.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013872
