Morgan Stanley | RESEARCH

Valuation and Risks

NORTH AMERICA INSIGHT ~~

Alternative Asset Managers: We value the stocks using a sum of the parts valuation and discounted cash flow as well
as price/earnings and price/cash earnings multiples. Our DCF (COE of 12+15%, free cash flow = distributable earnings and
terminal growth rate = 4%) captures the long-term value of the business model, while the sum of the parts captures some
of the shorter-term volatility. For our SOTP, we use 2019 *Core® FRE and apply a 18x-21x multiple; apply 12x multiple on
BDC income share; use NPV to estimate future carry and apply discount rate to represent volatile nature of carry; 10%

haircut on accrued carry; 10% haircut on B/S assets.

APO.N

Apollo Global Management: We value APO using a sum-of-the-
parts, supported by a DCF, and back into an implied target multiple
on next 3 years DE, and ENI. Our price target implies a 11.5x multiple
on 2019 EPS, reflecting a 25% premium to historical valuation of 9.2x
that's warranted due accelerating growth in and mix shift toward
sticky fee related earnings for which investors ascribe a higher mul-
tiple, and APO is entering their harvesting stage that will see port-
folio monetizations accelerate driving stronger cash earnings
generation. Upside risks: Better FPAUM growth, capital deployment
accelerates, better returns. Downside risks: Declining valuations
reduce cash earnings (fewer exits or lower multiples); slower deploy-
ment; Funds V, Vland VIland ANRP remain in escrow, pressuring near

term cash earnings.

ARES.N

Ares: We value ARES using a sum-of-the-parts, supported by a DCF,
and back into an implied target multiple on next 3 years DE, and ENI.
Our PT represents a 10.8x PE multiple, slightly above the 3 year
average of 9.3x on improving cash earnings trajectory. Upside risk
includes better asset gathering, stronger investment performance
and faster monetization of portfolio investments. Downside risk that
strong AUM baked into our model over the next several years will not
materialize. ARCC concentration risk (a BDC which contributes 40%
of mgmt fees / 29% of revenue), and harvesting delays if there's an

extended financial & capital markets pullback.

BX.N

Blackstone: We value BX using a sum-of-the-parts, supported by a
DCF, and back into an implied target multiple on next 3 years DE and
ENI. Our PT represents a 12.6x PE multiple, above the 3 year average
of 9.4x on expectations for accelerated growth in fee-related earn-
ings growth, cash earnings growth and fundraising. Upside risks:

Stronger investment performance, faster monetization of portfolio

companies, better asset growth through new initiatives. Downside
risks: Weakness in public markets and commercial real estate mar-
kets pressure investment performance. Harvesting delaysD An
extended pull-back in financial and capital markets that delays har-
vesting of investments and dampens returns which lower cash earn-

ings.

cG.O

Carlyle: We value CG using a blended sum-of-the-parts, supported
by a DCF, and back into an implied target multiple on next 3 years DE
and ENI. Our PT implies a 13.5x multiple on 2019 EPS, reflecting a 55%
premium to historical valuation of 8.8x given resolution of legacy
issues and accelerating fee related earnings and asset gathering
momentum that will support the multiple. We expect less volatile
financial performance across all segments in our forward Look, vs.
greater volatility in historicals driven legacy challenges. Upside risks
include: Better investment performance, strong asset gathering and
faster monetization of portfolio companies. Downside risks include
an extended pull-back in financial and capital mkts that delays har-
vesting of investments and dampens returns which lower cash earn-

ings, and poor investment performance.

KKR.N

KKR: We value KKR using a 1.3x multiple on 2019 estimated book
value and back into an implied target multiple on next 3 years DE and
ENI. Our price target is also supported by a sum-of-the-parts valua-
tion. Our PT implies a 8.2x multiple on 2019 EPS, reflecting a 9% pre-
mium to historical valuation of 7.5x given improving fee related
earnings trajectory. Upside risks include better investment perform-
ance, compounding book value growth and faster asset gathering
from newer initiatives. Downside risks include an extended pull-back
in financial and capital markets that delays harvesting of investments
and dampens returns which lower cash earnings and impairs signifi-

cant investments held on balance.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025581
