Cover Story

Eight plus years into the market recovery, we see valuations extended as most
of the gains since 2014 have been driven by multiple expansion rather than
earnings growth. In this issue of Global Foresight, we highlight potential
investment opportunities, as well as challenges to sustaining this bull market.

We examine emerging markets with Jimmy Chang focusing on China, and

DAVID P. HARRIS, CFA
Chief Investment

Officer
212.549.5210

dharris@rockco.com

The Charging Bull

The lifespan of a bull market typically lasts many years, at times
ending abruptly. Conversely, the statue now on Lower Broadway
known as Charging Bull had a very short-lived initial run on
Wall Street. It is not widely known that Charging Bull was never
commissioned by the City of New York nor by any one of its
major investment banks. Rather, the three-and-a-half-ton
statue was simply unloaded one December day back in 1989 by
a private citizen in front of the New York Stock Exchange.

The benefactor was Italian sculptor Arturo di Modica who cre-
ated Charging Bull to demonstrate his belief in the strength of
the U.S. economy after the stock market crash in 1987. Hours
after di Modica delivered his statue, it was removed by the
NYPD and was not expected to be resurrected. This was not the
end of this bull’s run, however, since its removal generated an
amazing amount of media buzz—particularly noteworthy con-
sidering this happened before the internet was available to the
general public, so “going viral” was not even a concept. After a
couple of weeks of public pressure, Charging Bull was retrieved
and installed at its current home at the intersection of Broadway
and Whitehall, where it has been a staple for tourists’ photos
ever since.

The current equity bull market may have more years left, but its
age and valuation make the case worth revisiting. As we assess
potential investment opportunities, we see valuations elevated
in the U.S. market, while we believe Europe is likely to continue
its cyclical rebound. We are also encouraged by political devel-
opments on the continent. We believe there are a number of
attractive emerging market (EM) opportunities, but are mind-
ful of the challenges most of these once-rapidly-growing econ-
omies face. Frankly, it is not just the bull market that is aging; it
is most of the world, which has important sociological, eco-
nomic and investment implications as demographics and debt
are likely to constrain long-term global economic growth.

The Challenge of High Valuations

In 1998, professors Robert Shiller and John Campbell con-
ceived the cyclically adjusted price-earnings (CAPE) ratio,
which averages earnings over a 10-year period to minimize the
impact of economic cycles when valuing equity markets. The
CAPE ratio has been widely cited as evidence of U.S. stock mar-
ket overvaluation. The present U.S. equity CAPE ratio is the

GLOBAL FORESIGHT THIRD QUAPTER 2017

article by Dr. Mariela Vargova.

Michael Seo on South Korea. We also comment on corporate governance in an

highest it has been except during two famous market peaks—
1929 and 1999. We believe the CAPE ratio is cause for concern,
but not alarm. It most likely suggests that U.S. equities will have
subdued future returns. However, unlike the market’s prior
peaks at the end of the Roaring Twenties or the dot-com era,
we do not believe we are in the midst of an economic or market
bubble. If there is a benefit to the subdued economic recovery
we have recently experienced in the U.S. where GDP growth
has been averaging about 2.0%, it is that the economy has not
built up the excesses that it did during past peaks in the CAPE
ratio. By contrast, during the 1920s, U.S. real GDP growth aver-
aged 4.2%, and from 1996-1999 it grew at least 4.3% in each
calendar year. Since the CAPE ratios in those periods calcu-
lated off a base of very strong economic activity and earnings,
those periods were more susceptible to crashing than today’s
more muted environment.

co Ye Cy 904 de

BAH, HUMBUG!

N.Y. sak Exchange exinchel
can’t bear Christmas-gift, |

SATURDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1989 / 4 Cleicy ord windy. mid 25, dey; lor. ow tor, onghh J Dota, Page?

A theae-ton bronze bul left
the american

lee tral jar i
svay yesterday Re

cad

LAST GUANE TO WIN A B

310,000 HOME IN POCONOS UP FOR GRABS TODAY: Pages 2, 328 42

Ec mace ear

Source: New York Post

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012080
