4.2.12
WC: 191694

By the time the victims' bodies were exhumed, a woman named Helena Stoeckley had told police
and others that she and three friends had been in the MacDonald house on the night of the
murders and that her friends had committed the crimes. Though Stoeckley's word alone may not
have been worth very much—she was known to be a drug addict—she provided some details,
which tended to corroborate her story and the story Jeffrey MacDonald had told the police.

For example, she described a broken rocking horse like one found in Kristen's bedroom. At the
time of the crime, she had owned a floppy hat, black clothing, boots, and a long blonde wig, all of
which corresponded with MacDonald's description. And a woman fitting that description had
been seen by a military policeman near the MacDonald home shortly after the crime.

But the single hair in Colette's hand turned out to have come from her own head. The government
investigators reported that they had found no other physical evidence—no hairs, no fibers, no
skin, no blood—that could not be traced to the inhabitants of the MacDonald house.

The prosecution could therefore argue to the jury that Jeffrey MacDonald was lying - - because if
there had been intruders, they surely would have left some evidence behind: The absence of such
evidence was evidence of the absence of intruders.

Moreover, at the trial Helena Stoeckley claimed to have amnesia as to her whereabouts on the
night of the murders. The defense was surprised by Stoeckley’s sudden inability to remember
what she had previously described in such detail, but they could not effectively challenge her claim
of amnesia, because they had no basis for suggesting that she had been pressured to forget what
she actually remembered having done—namely participating in the murder of the MacDonald
family.

Now, however, in a shocking turn of events, Jeffrey MacDonald's legal team has discovered that,
before the trial, the government had in its possession handwritten lab notes indicating that
investigators had discovered long, blonde wig hairs at the scene of the crime that did not match
anything in the MacDonald household. This evidence was already in the government's secret files
before the graves of the victims were disturbed.

Nor was this all the prosecution had in its secret files. The handwritten lab notes confirmed the
presence of black wool fibers on the murder weapon used against Colette, and around her mouth.
These fibers did not match any clothing belonging to Jeffrey MacDonald or to anyone else in the
MacDonald household. (Helena Stoeckley, however, had said she often wore black clothing.)

In addition, in the bedclothes of each victim—Colette, Kimberly, and Kristen—the government
experts found other unmatched human hairs, which did not belong to any of the victims, or to
Jeffrey MacDonald. But these hairs were never tested against Stoeckley or any members of her

group.
These lab notes were powerful evidence that an intruder wearing a long, blonde wig and black
wool clothing was at the murder scene on the night of February 17, 1970. But Jeffrey

MacDonald's lawyers were not aware of the notes' contents. Had they been, the entire trial would
undoubtedly have unfolded differently.

196

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017283
