172

(UNITEC), and Xidian University (Otago, VUW). New Zealand regularly hosts doctoral
students who were graduates of these universities and also hosts current students
and staff on short-term fellowships. Some New Zealand academics have roles at PLA-
linked universities. The potential for these relationships to be exploited requires a
reevaluation of government policies on scientific exchange.®

Civil Society

Media are a key target of China’s influence efforts. New Zealand’s local Chinese-
language outlets all have content cooperation agreements with China’s Xinhua News
Service, participate in annual media training conferences in China, have at times
employed senior staff affiliated with the Communist Party, and have hosted CCP
propaganda officials. CCP officials have given direct editorial instructions to Chinese-
language media in New Zealand as part of the CCP’s strategy to blend overseas
content with that in the PRC. On television, a Chinese-language channel has removed
Taiwanese programming from its network. Xinhua has also established its own
television station.

With respect to English media, China Daily in 2016 established a partnership with

the Fairfax newspapers in Australia and New Zealand. The Chinese embassy has
sponsored the travel of journalists and politicians. In other instances, donors with
close connections to the Chinese government have donated to organizations that
provide research funding and subsidize journalist and youth visits to China, as well as
exhibitions, book publications, and other activities that “promote a non-critical view
of China.”

China’s representatives in New Zealand also put considerable pressure on New
Zealanders who speak up critically on China-related issues. Since publication of her
initial report on Chinese influence operations in the country, Anne-Marie Brady
has experienced break-ins at her office and home, according to testimony before the
Australian Parliament’s Intelligence and Security Committee.’

Conclusion

New Zealand’s government, unlike that of Australia, has taken few steps to counter
foreign interference in its internal affairs. Charity fund-raising, which has been used
by Chinese United Front organizations to mask contributions, remains excluded from
disclosure requirements. New Zealand’s intelligence service still cannot investigate
cases of subversion and foreign influence inside its political parties without the
approval of the service’s minister, whose political calculations may inhibit action. And
media regulations remain inadequate to address improper influence by means other
than outright ownership, which may also merit reform.

Appendix 2

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020631
