Bundled Payment (Healthcare) - Also
known as episode-based payment, defined
as the reimbursement of health care
providers (such as hospitals and physicians)
on the basis of expected costs for clinically-
defined episodes of care. It has been
described as a middle ground between
fee-for-service reimbursement (in which
providers are paid for each service rendered
to a patient) and capitation (in which
providers are paid a lump sum per patient
regardless of how many services the patient
receives).

Business Cycle - Fluctuations in overall
business activity accompanied by swings in
the unemployment rate, interest rates, and
corporate profits. Over a business cycle, real
(inflation-adjusted) activity rises to a peak
(its highest level during the cycle) and then
falls until it reaches a trough (its lowest level
following the peak), whereupon it starts to
rise again, defining a new cycle. Business
cycles are irregular, varying in frequency,
magnitude, and duration. (NBER) See real
and unemployment rate.

Cash Accounting - A system of accounting
in which revenues are recorded when they
are actually received and outlays are
recorded when payment is made. Compare
with accrual accounting.

Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
Services (CMS) — US federal agency which
administers Medicare, Medicaid, and the
Children's Health Insurance Program.

Copayment — A flat amount paid out of
pocket per medical service, e.g., $5 per
office visit.

Congressional Budget Office (CBO) —A
non-partisan federal agency within the
legislative branch of the U.S. government,
charged with reviewing congressional
budgets and other legislative initiatives with
budgetary implications.

_)
Ise) www.kpcb.com

Conservatorship - The legal process by
which an external entity (in the case of
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the federal
government) establishes control and
oversight of a company to put it in a sound
and solvent condition.

Consumption - In principle, the value of
goods and services purchased and used up
during a given period by households and
governments. In practice, the Bureau of
Economic Analysis counts purchases of
many long-lasting goods (such as cars and
clothes) as consumption even though the
goods are not used up. Consumption by
households alone is also called consumer
spending. See national income and product
accounts.

Cost-of-Living Adjustment (COLA) - An
annual increase in Social Security and other
entitlement payments to reflect price
inflation.

Current-Account Balance - A summary
measure of a country’s current transactions
with the rest of the world, including net
exports, net unilateral transfers, and net
factor income (primarily the capital income
from foreign property received by residents
of a country offset by the capital income from
property in that country flowing to residents
of foreign countries).

Cyclical Deficit or Surplus - The part of the
federal budget deficit or surplus that results
from the business cycle. The cyclical
component reflects the way in which the
deficit or surplus automatically increases or
decreases during economic expansions or
recessions.

Cyclically Adjusted Budget Deficit or
Surplus - The federal budget deficit or
surplus that would occur under current law if
the influence of the business cycle was
removed—that is, if the economy operated
at potential gross domestic product.

USAInc. Xx

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021077
