186 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

“Ah, no,” says the tour guide. “The first bus you accommodated
had a man in the first seat but this has a woman. The second bus had
a woman in the second seat but this one has a man and so on. This
bus has a different gender in at least one seat to every bus you so far
accommodated. It is a new bus.”

The manager finds room for the passengers from the new bus but
the tour guide comes back a moment later.

“You have missed another bus. This one has a different gender
in at least one seat to every previous bus, including the one you just
accommodated. It looks like there are an infinite number of buses you
missed, all lined up to get into the infinite hotel.”

What is it about these buses that make them so difficult to
accommodate? They are all just filled with people after all.

The manager is defeated by the more complex information held in
the contents of the buses. An infinitely large bus full of binary information
has more information in it than an infinitely large bus specified only by its
size. This is a larger infinity than the counting infinity. The permutation
of all the possible options for the occupants of the bus is larger than
infinity.

Real Numbers

What about the real world we live in? Is the larger infinity we failed to
fit into Hilbert’s Hotel present, or was it just a mathematical fiction?
Hold up your thumb and index finger for a moment. The gap between
them is a distance. Most likely this is a whole number with an infinite
decimal digits after it — say 2.2320394386.... centimeters. The infinite set
of decimal digits in this measurement is the larger type of infinity: called
the continuum. Distances in space form a continuous unbroken line of
points, with no gaps in between. The counting numbers, on the other
hand, form a broken line. We take discrete steps from one number to the
next. This is a hard distinction to grasp but it is the same distinction we
used in Hilbert’s Hotel. Imagine you believe you have a list of all the real
numbers in the world. You can take the first decimal digit from the first
number and add one, the second digit from the second number add one
and so on generating new numbers not on the original list. Therefore,
you cannot have a list all the real numbers; they are not countable. Let’s
take a closer look at these real numbers.

Here’s a quick test. Which is the larger number, the first or the second?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015876
