hardly recognizable in any sort of official Republican or conservative way. He was a post-
right-wing provocateur but with none of the dinner party waspishness or bite of Ann
Coulter or Milo Yiannopoulos. They were a stagey type of reactionary. He was a real one
—a genuine racist with a good education, in his case UVA, the University of Chicago, and
Duke.

It was Bannon who effectively gave Spencer flight by pronouncing Breitbart to be “the
platform for the alt-right’—the movement Spencer claimed to have founded, or at least
owned the domain name for.

“T don’t think Bannon or Trump are identitarians or alt-rightists,” Spencer explained
while camped out just over CPAC’s property line at the Gaylord. They were not, like
Spencer, philosophic racists (itself different from a knee-jerk racist). “But they are open to
these ideas. And open to the people who are open to these ideas. We’re the spice in the

29

mix.

Spencer was right. Trump and Bannon, with Sessions in the mix, too, had come closer
than any major national politician since the Civil Rights movement to tolerating a race-
tinged political view.

“Trump has said things that conservatives never would have thought... . His criticism
of the Iraq War, bashing the Bush family, I couldn’t believe he did that ... but he did... .
Fuck them ... if at the end of the day an Anglo Wasp family produces Jeb and W then
clearly that’s a clear sign of denegation... . And now they marry Mexicans ... Jeb’s wife
... he married his housekeeper or something.

“In Trump’s 2011 CPAC address he specifically calls for a relaxation of immigration
restrictions for Europeans ... that we should re-create an America that was far more stable
and more beautiful... . No other conservative politician would say those things ... but on
the other hand pretty much everyone thought it ... so it’s powerful to say it... . Clearly
[there’s] a normalization process going on.”

“We are the Trump vanguard. The left will say Trump is a nationalist and an implicit or
quasi-racialist. Conservatives, because they are just so douchey, say Oh, no, of course not,
he’s a constitutionalist, or whatever. We on the alt-right will say, He is a nationalist and he
is a racialist. His movement is a white movement. Duh.”

Looking very satisfied with himself, Spencer paused and then said: “We give him a
kind of permission.”

OOK Ok

Nearby, in the Gaylord atrtum, Rebekah Mercer sat having a snack with her home-
schooled daughter and her friend and fellow conservative donor Allie Hanley. Both
women agreed that the president’s CPAC speech showed him at his most gracious and
charming.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019988
