Subject: Fwd:
To: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com>
PLEASE READ CAREFULLY ,
Mark was here this morning , the proposed transactions are extremely complex . and would take a great
deal of detailed time. I do not know how, and if ,to move forward - our last transaction. a transaction
which you saved 600 million in tax. even if as you say it could be 20 years away , ( 1 hope longer)
discounted to today is a savings of 300 million . for some reason you chose to ignore our agreements ,
verbal written and emailed -and decided that it was only worth 8 million dollars to you. . ( assuming
phaidon -richard happens. the calculation that you can see isa 24m savings not including artspace and
debt benefits- certain to come later .. IMPORTANT NOTE

the phaidon transaction as currently contemplated will not work . NOT CLOSE

When we had our meeting in your home in Bedford. You asked me for my help. I told you multiple
times that i thought it was a very bad idea, in that I greatly preferred to have no financial interactions. I
don't have many friends and didn't want money in any way to interfere with our unique relationship.
Reminder, For five years you had the kind, but very goofy Eileen Alexandersson as the sole manager of
your massive accounting , legal, investments. reporting, trusts etc. When I first told you in no uncertain
terms that I firmly believed she was incompetent you admonished me for  speaking out of both sides of
my mouth. With regard Brad Wechsler , there has never been a  both sides. . I have consistantly
maintained since day one that he was highly unsuited for the job. When you initially asked me to help
convince him to take the role , promising him a position to manage mirage investments I sent you a note
saying that instead of hiring him you should pay up and get first class people. I have reiterated the same
message for over a year now. . Brad , not me ,was tasked with hiring new people , according to his biz
school org chart.(nauseating ) and as you wanted him to take ownership of the staff,he conducted many
interviews alone. . you may recall that as late as may, you told him in my presence that though six months
had passed he had not hired anyone. since then I have rectified errors in sales tax, use tax, income tax,
fbar reporting, 1031 reporting, 8 million of deductions missed errors of millions on the returns. a cashflow
that is misleading helped prepare financial statements ( april ) Oversight on new grats- first at 22 and
then at 19 that were done without my consultation and were resolved soley as a result of my last
minute intervention. . 600 million in after tax savings was just accomplished. (BTW- for some reason you
left the 30 million outstanding that I had said should only be done if that was my additional fee. and not
used for non biz purposes and not art.

Sorry but .,

in June and then again Sept, we both agreed to a 50% of phaidon payout first projected at 20 . but less
when artspace and debt taken out, - then only after weeks, when you delayed any detailed discussion of
money wanting to give the issue a thoughtful response ( which I fully understand ) . you unilaterally
changed our agreement.. 5m would be reserved for the future ? . and out of the remaining 15m ,? 1
would receive only a third. ( note : I'm confident that both the debt , and the art space investment will also
lead to a write- off of another 30 m. plus ) In my dining room ,you were surprised when I said that 1
require most people to pay their advisory fee up front so that I am assured that I will be properly
compensated for my work when strategies are implemented . you may recall that you appeared offended
and said  are you suggesting that i would go back on my word I said no , of course not ! you are my
closest of friends ,but my experience is that when amounts get large, people tend to get unhappy when it
actually comes time for them to pay.

I include below the email i sent to you on April 15, the day i was examining your returns It laid out
my understanding of the compensation agreed for a transaction of the magnitude to the penny of the one
just completed.ie 600m When it appeared that the transcation would and could go foward I was the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023229
