PATTERSON

-ately, he tried to sell the informa-

rage girls and the places where
list included locations in Califor-
York, and Michigan. The papers
idresses, and phone numbers of
‘issinger, Mick Jagger, Dustin Hoff-
och, Ted Kennedy, Donald Trump,
and former Israeli prime minister

yt at all damning. Epstein made a
nation for future use. But informa-
ould have bolstered the state’s case
by withholding it from the Palm
ruez had committed a crime.

would say that the papers were an
them, he believed, Epstein would

ed the money. And so a few weeks ~
e Stockade, he approached a lawyer 4
of Epstein’s masseuses. He had the
golden nugget.” The names of hun-
ad been abused by Epstein. ;
z in no uncertain terms that he was
ie had over to the authorities. By

iformation, Rodriguez was commits

tement by Christina Pryor, 4 ae
z “persisted that he would only tt
ossession in exchange for $50, 000.

Firtay Ricu

Two months later, on October 28, the lawyer called Rodriguez,
who insisted once more on being paid for the information. The
lawyer told him that an associate would be in touch.

What the lawyer knew and Rodriguez did not know was that
the associate in question was an undercover employee (UCE) of
the FBI. A few days later, on November 2, the UCE calls Rodri-
guez and sets up a meeting, which takes place the following day.

“During the meeting, Rodriguez produced a small bound
book and several sheets of legal pad paper containing handwrit-
ten notes,” Special Agent Pryor would say in her statement. She
continues:

Rodriguez explained that he had taken the bound book from
his former employer’s residence while employed there in
2004 to 2005 and that the book had been created by persons
working for his former employer. Rodriguez discussed in
detail the information within the book and identified import-
ant information to the UCE. In addition, Rodriguez admitted
he had previously lied to the FBI. Rodriguez asked the UCE
about the $50,000, took possession of the money, and began
counting it.

Rodriguez was then detained for Obstruction of Official
Proceedings, Title 18, U.S. Code, Section 1512(©), and ques-
tioned. After Miranda warnings were administered by agents,

_ Rodriguez waived his rights and signed a written waiver of
| those rights. Rodriguez admitted that he had the documents
4 and book in his possession and had never turned them over
3 to local law enforcement or the FBI. In addition, Rodriguez

219

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022026
