main event in Bedminster that day was the ceremonial signing of an act extending the
funding of a program that let veterans obtain medical care outside VA hospitals. The
signing was held in a big ballroom at the Clubhouse two hours after Alex Field’s attack.

During the signing, Trump took a moment to condemn the “hatred, bigotry, and
violence on many sides” in Charlottesville. Almost immediately, the president came under
attack for the distinction he had appeared to refuse to draw between avowed racists and
the other side. As Richard Spencer had correctly understood, the president’s sympathies
were muddled. However easy and obvious it was to condemn white racists—even self-
styled neo-Nazis—he instinctively resisted.

It wasn’t until the next morning that the White House finally tried to clarify Trump’s
position with a formal statement: “The President said very strongly in his statement
yesterday that he condemns all forms of violence, bigotry, and hatred. Of course that
includes white supremacists, KKK neo-Nazi and all extremist groups. He called for
national unity and bringing all Americans together.”

But in fact he hadn’t condemned white supremacists, KKK, and neo-Nazis—and he
continued to be stubborn about not doing it.

In a call to Bannon, Trump sought help making his case: “Where does this all end? Are
they going to take down the Washington Monument, Mount Rushmore, Mount Vernon?”
Bannon—still not receiving his summons to Bedminster—urged this to be the line: the
president should condemn violence and misfits and also defend history (even with
Trump’s weak grasp of it). Stressing the literal issue of monuments would bedevil the left
and comfort the right.

But Jared and Ivanka, with Kelly backing them, urged presidential behavior. Their plan
was to have Trump return to the White House and address the issue with a forceful
censure of hate groups and racial politics—exactly the unambiguous sort of position
Richard Spencer had strategically bet Trump would not willingly take.

Bannon, understanding these same currents in Trump, lobbied Kelly and told him that
the Jarvanka approach would backfire: Jt will be clear his heart’s not in it, said Bannon.

The president arrived shortly before eleven o’clock on Monday morning at a White
House under construction and a wall of shouted questions about Charlottesville: “Do you
condemn the actions of neo-Nazis? Do you condemn the actions of white supremacists?”
Some ninety minutes later he stood in the Diplomatic Reception Room, his eyes locked on
to the teleprompter, and delivered a six-minute statement.

Before getting to the point: “Our economy is now strong. The stock market continues
to hit record highs, unemployment is at a sixteen-year low, and businesses are more
optimistic than ever before. Companies are moving back to the United States and bringing
many thousands of jobs with them. We have already created over one million jobs since I
took office.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020106
