The court filings describe Brunel as one of Epstein’s closest pals.

Regarding Maxwell, the documents refer to sworn testimony by Epstein’s former house
manager, Alfredo Rodriguez, explaining how Maxwell took photos of girls without the girls”
knowledge, “kept the images on her computer, knew the names of the underage girls and their
respective phone numbers and other underage victims.”

According to the documents: Maxwell allegedly lied about her mother being ill and having to fly
back to England one day before a scheduled deposition in Edwards’ case against Epstein.

Despite that assertion, Maxwell was captured in a photo for OK magazine, attending the wedding
of Chelsea Clinton two days later.

Epstein has settled more than two dozen lawsuits and claims against him by young women who
say they were lured to his E] Brillo Way mansion as teens to give him sexually charged massages
and/or sex in exchange for money. The terms of all settlements are confidential.

Rodriguez took a journal from Epstein’s computer that listed the names of his underage victims
from around the country and the world. Calling it the “Holy Grail,” Rodriguez tried to sell the
journal for $50,000 to victims’ attorneys. He pleaded guilty to obstruction of justice and is
serving |8 months in federal prison,

Epstein, 57, served 13 months of an 18-month state sentence. He ended his one-year probation in
July on state charges of soliciting prostitution and soliciting a minor for prostitution.

According to flight logs from Epstein’s private planes, Clinton flew several times on Epstein’s
planes, many times with Maxwell, Palm Beach resident Sarah Kellen and Adriana Mucinska —
“all employees and/or co-conspirators of Epstein’s,” according to the court papers.

The documents show that Clinton flew with Epstein, “then suddenly stopped — raising the
suspicion that the friendship abruptly ended ...

“Epstein’s personal phone directory from his computer contains e-mail addresses for Clinton
along with 21 phone numbers for him ... and what appears to be Clinton’s personal numbers,” the

court papers say.

Allegations in the documents say Epstein threatened victims — including Edwards’ client Jane
Doe — despite no-contact orders in effect.

Epstein had Doe tailed by a private investigator as her trial date neared, the court filings say. One
time, Doe was so frightened that she fled her home in the company of a retired police officer and
was taken to a hiding place, according to the court papers.

http://slaverytoday.org/that-gorgeous-underage-ad-model-may-be-trafficked-and-owned-
regulation-for-agencies-to-stop-child-sex-trafficking/

35

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011946
