willingness to chip away, one airport prayer room, one frivolous intimidating lawsuit, one Congressman or
CIA officer, one mosque, one ruling at a time.

Particularly in the US, given our deep attachment to freedom as well as cultural and psychological
tendencies toward diversity, Western guilt and expectations of truthfulness, this effort is devious and
difficult to uproot. The Civilization Jihadists present one face to the American public which is completely at
odds with their true agenda and how they deal in private. Jamie, you and David and others such as Steve
Emerson, Frank Gaffney, Andy McCarthy and others have done s 0 much to uncover this level of Jihad that
your readers should be urged to review as much of their work (including Steve’s recent excellent
documentary, The Grand Deception, and Frank’s important web video course, The Muslim Brotherhood in
America) as possible.

Finally, there is a third level — the International Institutional Jihad. Here the most powerful international
institutions such as the UN and the Organization of Islamic Cooperation and others seek to push into
America from without those changes which are difficult to complete from within. The OIC is the largest
Islamic institution in the world. It essentially controls the vote in the UN’s General Assembly and thus
explains in part the absurd and abject pro-Islamic, anti-Israel thrust of that organizat ion. This level seeks to
use the power of Islamic nations to work fro m outside the West to force changes within the West. While
there are various conflicts between many of the nations, being Islamic majority states, there is a great deal
they agree upon which becomes the focus of these efforts. Just as the Obama administration is beginning to
cooperate with international efforts to control gun ownership, so has Hillary Clinton’s Istanbul Process
become a dangerous step in the effort to restrict speech critical of Islam by norm (or possibly even treaty)
when it may not be fully executable by domestic action alone.

I should point out that Stephen Coughlin, the former Pentagon officer who has an important must-see
presentation of Islamic Law, uses different names for these same three levels — Jihad, Dawa, and Ummah.
Had I seen his work before I wrote my book I would have conformed to his categorizations.

We must learn how powerful language has become on all three levels. Words such as “peace,@ $B!I
“freedom,” ”terrorism,” and phrases such as “human rights” have different meanings for us and for our
Islamic Enemy. To oversimplify, “peace” is not something for now but that which comes when all the earth
is submitting to Islam. In the context of battles, “peace” is at best a temporary ceasefire. “Freedom” is best
understood as having the freedom to fully submit to Islam, not to choose whatever beliefs one desires while
respecting the same right in others. We’ve all seen how ”human rights” and “terror” really only apply
among Muslims, not to non-Muslims. Our enemy fully understands these differences and uses them at all
levels to paralyze us.

Look simply at how the phrase “Israeli-Palestinian conflict” has equalized the two parties, making it all the
easier to ascribe features of one to the other and view the problem as a simple-to fix division of ass ets into
statehoods but for personality problems among the leaders. The simple truth is that this is and has always
been a one-sided Arab war against Israel as Ruth Wisse and others have described and, as Bibi Netanyahu
made clear, the ONLY state truly at issue here has been the State of Israel that the Arabs have refused for
over half a century. Nonetheless, the Control Factor hypnotically abuses the mind’s susceptibility to the
intricacies of language.

Even the label “Peace Process” has been damaging language. While most focus upon the first word, turning
this into a “process” has helped ensure that peace is never obtained. It is more appropriately called the
“Extortion Process” because all that results is that violence is used over decades to extract concessions from
Israel.

These three levels must be understood for their differences while united by a single goal. While these levels
often op erate together and assist each other, we must avoid “level confusion” which the Control Factor
employs to curtail our fears. If the Obama narrative is swallowed- that the only threat is the Violent Jihad-
we will miss the other contamination fomenting within our borders. We must appreciate how these levels
work together and even unite with other forces such as the global Leftist movement that you, Jamie, have
described so forcefully in United in Hate.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025032
