rERSON

t thing, okay? Now, you came
The question we have for you
ue cooperating with us and try
ist Jeff?

y going to help me in the long
itted to a second-degree felony,

What’s going to keep me out of
p me out of trouble. I’ve already

>

‘ith that....
ed myself. I can go two ways. I

which is going to put me at—
second-degree felony against me.
ith it and maybe get myself some

What would the odds be of you
2? Have you had any contact with

itact—

of’em....[ had a phone call about

dl told my parents. Look, | sweat
—like, no connection with him at
ch got my number changed. I have
jon with him. It stopped.

that’s good. That’s good that you ,

64

Fittuy Ricw

This is what we'd like to do: We would like to reach out to
some of your ex-friends and [unintelligible] talk to them.
Now, the question is, do we think that they are currently still
working for Jeff, in which case they would make a phone call
to Jeff? Or can we just kinda show up and, you know, have
you make a call as we're standing outside and say: “Hey, you
know, these guys wanna talk to you, and I've already told em
everything?” Our goal is to make a better case against Jeff, all
right?
’ RECAREY: With your cooperation.

FRICK: Let me, let me get back to—past—the cooperation
thing, okay? There are lesser charges that can easily be filed:
leading to the delinquency of a minor, as compared to a
second-degree felony. You know what I mean? That’s a mis-
demeanor.... First of all, I'll tell you straight up, okay, we're
not going to take you to jail today....

DOBBS: Not today.

FRICK: Well, you’re—And here’s the other thing: If you cooper-
ate and if we can—If you cooperate, whether we pull it off or

4 not—that’s not up to you, that’s up to us, okay? So what we
would do is if we ended up charging you with like a misde-
meanor, we'd give you a call, we'd say: “Hey, you gotta come
in, you know.”

RECAREY: You sign it...

FRICK: That's our preference. You come in, you've been very

forthright with us, you've been very up front—

: RECAREY: Very truthful.

_ FRICK: Do you want us to call your parents, or do you want to
deal with it, or do you—As far as we're concerned youre an

65

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019181
