Teaching Kids to Walk and Talk 19

Let’s start with walking and talking.

Walking and talking are intrinsically rewarding. No kid needs en-
couragement to do either. They do have to be discouraged from crying
when a word will serve them better. I want milk works better than wah.
But they learn this quite naturally without very much parental help.
They learn to walk when their parents hold their hands and cheer
when they succeed, but they would have learned to walk anyway.

The parents’ role as the teachers of their children can be seen very
clearly when we consider walking and talking. Kids can learn to do
either without much help, but they do these things quicker and better
with parental help. Children who are spoken to by their parents, and
listened to and corrected when they make an error, learn to speak well
and more clearly as adults. While everyone learns to walk, parental
care prevents falls when steps and other hazards present themselves.

So, is the parent teaching the child? What does the parent actually
know about how to teach walking and talking? Actually the parent
knows quite a bit about teaching. We are wired to teach our children
and help them. All higher level animals do this as well. It is not a par-
ticularly conscious process,

So, at what point are children better taught by professional teachers
instead of their parents? This is an important and interesting question.

A professional teacher is better than a parent if and only if the
teacher knows more about what is being taught than the parent does.
Teachers may take education courses and that may seem to qualify
them to teach, but really those courses are not so much about the art
of teaching per se. Teachers learn to teach by teaching, like anyone
else learns how to do anything. But teachers learn to teach in the
system they find themselves in. This means that typically they learn
how to manage classrooms and deal with administrators and handle
various issues that are very specific to school.

Teaching outside of school usually does not entail managing mul-
tiple children nor should it entail dealing with state standards and oth-
er governmental interference (although that often happens anyway).

So, knowledge is the real issue in teaching, not teaching skill. Or
so it would seem.

Actually this idea is clearly wrong if one thinks about university
teaching. Professors become professors by writing a Ph.D. thesis, not
by learning anything about teaching. They may have some teach-
ing experience prior to becoming professors because they may have
taught an introductory course or two as graduate students, but nobody

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023765
