June 2014, I was asked to articulate the vision at the first Belt and Road forum in
Urumai, Northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region. I described five
categories: history, culture, trade, mutual development and peaceful development.

The second forum was in Quanzhou, Southeast China's Fujian province, in February
2015. It enlarged the vision to include the 21st Century Maritime Silk Road,
engaging Southeast Asia, South Asia, the Middle East and East Africa.

The third forum was held in Xi'an, Northwest China's Shaanxi province, in
September 2016, with the theme Shared Memory, Common Development.

To comprehend Xi's Belt and Road Initiative, one must appreciate globalization,
which is founded on the perennial law of comparative economic advantage but
which is suffering discontent due to its differential impact on workers in Western
countries. In a reversal of historic proportions, China now champions globalization,
while the United States is now conflicted with America First protectionism.

China's developmental miracle is founded on globalization, as Chinese workers
made China the low-cost manufacturing center of the world.

But China's old model no longer works — for one, workers must be paid higher
salaries to rebalance severe socio-economic imbalances. China must develop new
modes of globalization, leveraging its expertise and experience, especially in
infrastructure construction, which is just what the developing economies need for
their development.

The initiative is to expand links between Asia, Africa and Europe, and thus reduce
imbalances in national development and promote global economic growth. It focuses
on projects such as high-speed railways. Development comes first, China believes;
nothing good can happen without economic growth.

The Beijing forum seeks consensus on major cross-regional projects, especially
networks of roads, railways and shipping.

At the Xi'an forum, I chaired a session (on the media), which was held at precisely
the same time as the first debate between US presidential candidates Donald Trump

and Hillary Clinton.

One hundred years from today, I began, when the history of our times is written,
our forum on the Belt and Road (Initiative) will carry more significance than the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023573
