4.2.12
WC: 191694

I bring to this task a strong and dynamic world view that has been shaped by my life experiences
and which has, in turn, shaped my life experiences. In looking back on my life, I am inevitably
peering through the prism of the powerful ideology that has provided a compass for my actions.

Ideology is biography. Where we stand is the result of where we sat, who we sat next to, what
we observed, what happened to us, and how we reacted to our experiences.

Ideology is complex. Its causes are multifaceted and rarely subject to quantification. The
philosopher, Descartes, who famously said, “I think therefore I am” got it backwards. I am—I
was, I will be—therefore I think what I think. The ability to think is inborn—a biological and
genetic endowment. The content of one’s thinking—the nature and quality of our ideas—is more
nurture than nature. Without human experiences there could be no well-formed ideology, merely
simple inborn reflexes based on instinct and genetics.* There is no gene, or combination of genes,
that ordains the content of our views regarding politics, law, morality or religion.* Biology gives
us the mechanisms with which to organize our experiences into coherent theories of life, but
without these experiences—which begin in the womb and may actually alter the physical
structures of our brain over time—all we would have are the mechanics of thought and the
potential for formulating complex ideas and ideologies. It is our interactions—with other human
beings, with nature, with nurture, with luck, with love, with hate, with pleasure, with pain, with
our own limitations, with our mortality-—that shape our world views.

Among the most enduring and influential human encounters are those experienced at an early age.
These include the accidents of birth: to which family, in which place, at which time we happen to
come into the world. It is true that most people die with the religion and political affiliation into
which they were born (or adopted). Identical twins, separated at birth, may share a common
disposition, IQ and susceptibility to disease, but they are likely to share the religious and political
affiliations of their adoptive parents. There is little genetic about the factors that directly influence
religious, political or other ideological choices. They are largely a function of exposure to
external factors.°

Many of these external factors are totally beyond the control of the person. They may involve
decisions made by others, often before they were even born. Probably the most significant
decisions affecting my own life were made by my great grandparents on my father’s side and my
grandparents on my mother’s side: the decision to leave the shtetls of Poland and move to New
York. Had they remained in Poland, as some of my relatives did, I would probably not have
survived the Holocaust, since I was three years old when the systematic genocide began.’ That

3 Quote Steve Pinker

“EN on Mark Hauser “Moral Minds.” Drew Weston, George Lakoff.

> Kafka once quipped that “the meaning of life is that we die,” and when God told Adam and Eve that if they eat
from the tree of knowledge, they will die, he meant they will obtain the knowledge of mortality—which elevated
humans above other species.

° This is not to deny the likely influence genetics and biology may have on a predisposition toward homosexuality
or other orientations. Nor is it to deny that biological predisposition may influence ideology through the prism of
experience. See [cite] [expand]

’ Perhaps, of course, had my forbearers remained in Poland, my father might not have met my mother (although
their families lived in neighboring shtetls). Accident, timing and luck determine virtually everything relating to
birth.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017094
