that anthropomorphism is associated
with the activation of the same prefrontal
areas that are active when people think
about themselves or project themselves
onto others.

Conclusion

Just as critically, the study of
invisible forces requires a discussion of
the method that successful teams use to
work together as they cross disciplinary
boundaries. Over the past few decades,
there has been a demonstrable shift from
the individual genius as the source of
scientific and scholarly breakthroughs to
interdisciplinary teams. This shift in the
production of cutting-edge knowledge
has been documented in all fields of
scholarly activity, ranging from
mathematics and theoretical physics to
the humanities. This shift has both made
possible and been necessitated by a need
to understand complex behaviors.
Although this project is primarily about
the ways that scientists seek to study the
impact of invisible forces, it will also
reflect the methodologies that these
researchers use so that their work is not
constrained by common knowledge.

The philosophy of science also
looks different when dealing with simple
causality (one-to-one relations) than with
complex causality. Affirmation of the
consequent, a logical error in which a
given cause for an effect is inferred
based on the observation of the effect,
does not lead to a scientific error when
there is but a single cause for the
observed effect. However, as scientific
inquiry addresses increasingly complex
phenomena, and increasingly complexly
determined phenomena, the philosophy
of science needs to become more
nuanced.

A core challenge is to develop a
“science” of identification and

Page |15

aggregation of these invisible forces at
different levels. Related research
questions include why they exist, and
measures of robustness. One of our
central goals is to demonstrate not only
that considerations of these forces
matter, but that that they can matter a
lot.

There also are questions of value
and ethics that could be implicated:
descriptive knowledge, models,
awareness of causal relationships, and so
on, might not be enough to answer some
kinds of questions, especially those
related to value and purpose, which are
the very energies that animate and
invigorate real human systems.
Economics comes close with its proxy
measure of value based on the
distribution of scarce resources and
people’s varying need for these
resources. But this theory comes up
short in many instances where other
values are at play that are beyond
markets, such as in assessing the value
of a human life, or whether all lives are
of equal value. It is an especially poor
model for helping us understand
something as simple as the value of
articles of sentimental value, such as
family photographs, which may have
little or no market value at all. Thus,
how do we best understand the
“sentiments” that are important in the
real world?

The members of the Network
have worked beyond the boundaries of
disciplinary borders, geographical
precincts, and epistemological comfort
zones to develop a rigorous but
innovative approach to the study of the
human mind, sociality, spirituality,
health, and well being. The Network
members represented in this book are
Gary Berntson from Ohio State
University, Don Browning from the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021261
