76 Teaching Minds

Why do we have such a failed system? Could it be the policies of
presidents like Clinton, who pursued a policy of never offending the
teachers unions by doing anything threatening to them, like changing
the curriculum?

Or, could it be that people such as this writer define education
in terms of random facts they wished everyone knew? The problem
is not that people don’t know who Thomas Jefferson was. If citizens
knew who he was, would that mean that they could think clearly and
not be influenced by all the special interests who were trying to tell
them what to think? If they knew who George Washington was, what
exactly would they know about him? That he could never tell a lie?
This is obviously untrue, and many have written about what a good
liar he actually was. That he was a brilliant general? There is lots of
evidence against that. That he owned 300 slaves? This is not usually
mentioned. That he married a rich woman probably so he could get
her land? Historians discuss this. Schools never do. Nevertheless, peo-
ple are upset because our students don’t know our national myths and
some random facts.

The real issue in the healthcare debate is that the general public
can’t think clearly. That would have a simple explanation. The schools
don’t even try to teach people to think clearly.

I mentioned President Clinton above, but really all U.S. presidents
are culpable. It may not be their fault. Certainly they are given terrible
information.

Lamar Alexander, former Secretary of Education (under George
H.W. Bush) was speaking in the U.S. Senate recently on restoring
teaching history to its “rightful place” and making sure that history
was part of the NCLB act. Here is a quote from him from 2006:

Just one example of how far we are from helping our children
learn what they need to know. The fourth grade national
report card test asked students to identify the following
passage, “We hold these truths to be self-evident that all men
are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator
with certain unalienable rights, that among these are Life,
Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness.” Students were given
four choices: Constitution, Mayflower Compact, Declaration
of Independence, and Articles of Confederation. Less than

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023822
