Tax

Trump additionally proposed capping itemized deductions
at $100,000 for single filers and $200,000 for married
filers and highlighted the benefits of his proposals for
working Americans and the middle class. “By lowering
rates, streamlining deductions, and simplifying the
process, we will add millions and millions of new jobs. In
addition, because we have strongly capped deductions for
the wealthy, and closed special interest loopholes, the tax
relief will be concentrated on the working and middle
class taxpayer..,” he said. “This is a working and middle-
class tax relief proposal.” A campaign fact sheet
proclaimsthat Trump’s economic proposals would add 25
million jobs over a decade, which equates to 200,000 new
jobs per month.

The motivating factors for tax reform will remainthe
same as they were in the current Congress, but unified
government should make enacting tax reform much
easier. The statutory corporate incometax rate is seen as
too high and the international tax system compels profit
shifting to low-tax jurisdictions and erodes the US tax
base. That phenomenon escalated this year with the
European Commission’s latest state aid decision, which
was seen as demonstrating a tension between the US and
Europe over who should tax the foreign income of US
multinationals.

The passage of the EU’s harmful tax competition directive
willlead to enactment in all EU countries of a variety of
measures that could increase taxes on US companies
operating in Europe, while implementation of innovation
box regimes in many countries, following the OECD BEPS
project outline, will make it more attractivefor US
companies to move intellectual property and exploit that
IP into those jurisdictions. The Administration took
significant steps this year to try to prevent further
erosion of the US tax base through regulatory action to
deter inversions and earnings stripping, but all involved
said these were Band-Aid approaches that were no
substitute for US tax reform.

Design issues —international tax reform. As has been the
case for the last few years, there is broad agreement on
the design elements of businesstax reform, and more
specifically, international tax reform, but the devil is in
the details. For example, the House Republican Blueprint
ontax reform calls for a 8.75%tax rate on previously
untaxed accumulated foreign earnings held in cash or
cash equivalents, and a 3.5%tax rate on all other
accumulated earnings, with tax liability payable over an
eight-year period.

This is the same tax treatment of accumulated foreign
earnings called for under former Ways and Means
Committee Chairman Dave Camp’s (R-MI) Tax Reform Act
of 2014.

But in a departure from the Camp bill, the Blueprint also
callsfor a move to a destination-basis tax system, under
which border adjustments exempt exports from tax while
taxing imports, making the tax jurisdiction the location of
consumption rather than production. Exempting exports
from US tax and taxing imports regardless of where they
are produced will eliminate incentives for US businesses
to move or locate operations outside of the United States
under a territorial tax system, according to the Blueprint.
By relieving exports from US tax while imposing US tax on
imports, the Blueprint would eliminate the need for any
new exemption or territorialtax system to be
accompanied by a minimum tax or any other more
conventional anti-base erosion measure, thereby
sidestepping one of the more intractable and divisive
debates among the business community over the past
several years of tax reform discussions.

Developing a workable border adjustability mechanism
that is not actually a component of a value-added tax
presents some significant policy and technical hurdles.

US companiesthat are net exporters could end upina
perpetual tax loss position, and handing out refunds to
some of the largest US companies may not work froma
political standpoint, particularly as the domestic income
of US companies (including the suppliers for exporting
companies) is subject to tax. How to apply the border
adjustability concept to cross-border flows of capital, or
whether to exempt financial transactions must also be
considered.

While moving to a form of exemption system has some
level of bipartisan support, more liberal Democrats will
insist on a more pure worldwide system that includes
repeal of deferral. Senate Finance Committee Ranking
Member Wyden (intermittently) and Senator Warren
(consistently) have both backed the latter approach, and
Speaker Ryan noted the differing viewpoints in
September given that Democrats increasingly call for a
worldwide system and repeal of deferral.

EY 14

| Election 2016

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022386
