tolerate and fully withstand as it creates the only real chance for the addict to finally change. It is critical,
therefore, that when we finally engage in mirroring that we be prepared to see it through completion.

FP: What if we fail to engage in our own Inner Jihad and the Control Factor stays firmly in place?

Siegel: Critical to the Inner Jihad is the realization that our civilization is fragile; not to be taken for granted.
Our demands for multi-culturalism and diversity have bumped heads with the simple paradox that tolerating
the intolerant leads to extinction. Tolerating the intolerant is perhaps the most crystalline version of
asymmetry we have accepted. Seriously engaged Muslims MUST place the Koran above all law while in
America, the Constitution ranks supreme. As Omar Ahmad , founder of CAIR, reputedly said, “Islam isn’t in
Amer ica to be equal to any other faith, but to become dominant. The Koran is the highest authority in
America and Islam is the only accepted religion on Earth.” Who makes law- the people or Allah? While the
Control Factor constantly seeks for some accommodation between the two, this conflict CAN NOT be
negotiated. Only one can survive not because we have declared “war” but because our Islamic Enemy has.
That is, perhaps, the lesson we will most need to fully learn, one way or another. We will eventually hit a
Turnaround Moment as a nation and if enough of us are not truly prepared to fight and continue to be
controlled by our delusions, we will lose. If we truly seek to win, it is better to get there sooner while we
have advantages than later.

FP: Bill Siegel, thank you for joining FrontPage Interview.
And thank you for writing this superb and most important book.

We encourage all o f our readers to get their hands on The Control Factor: Our Struggle to See the True
Threat and to read it!

Editor’s note: To watch The Glazov Gang‘s recent discussion about the Muslim Brotherhood’s
infiltration of the United States and the Obama administration, see this week’s episode below:
Freedom Center pamphlets now available on Kindle: Click here.

Filed Under: Daily Mailer, FrontPage Tagged With: Denial, Islam, muslim brotherhood, Obama, Siegel, The
Control Factor

22.
t= Print This Post
About Jamie Glazov

Jamie Glazov is Frontpage Magazine's editor. He holds a Ph.D. in History with a specialty in Russian, U.S.
and Canadian foreign policy. He is the author of the critically acclaimed and best-selling, United in Hate:
The Left’s Romance with Tyranny and Terror. His new book is High No on For America. He is the host of
Frontpage’s television show, The Glazov Gang, and he can be reached at jamieglazov11@gmail.com. Visit
his sit at JamieGlazoy.com.

Login

Follow the discussion

Comments (6)

Sort by: Date Rating Last Activity
+3

cs

AdinaK 86p - J/ hours ago

The war being waged has two components - mental and physical. The mental side is a minefield of
constructs, deeply implanted within generations of Americans, and its PC chickens are coming home to
roost. So much so, millions of Americans (westerners) cannot break free of its shackles. But it is not as if
these mental chains magically appe ared. Far from it - http://adinakutnicki.com/2012/11/26/the-death-of-...

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024427
