90 Teaching Minds

in the story are ones that a graduate of such a program actually might
do in real life or actually might need to know about (possibly because
he is likely to manage or work with someone who performs that role).

Stories have been at the center of human consciousness for a long
time. People tell stories, and the stories they tell shape who they are.
People hear stories and remember those that resonate deeply with
them. And, people live stories. The stories they live become part of
them in a deep way. While we may easily forget everything about a
traditional course we took in high school, we can hardly forget the
roles we have played in real-life experiences, especially when those
roles went on for a long time and had emotional impact on us.

The central argument here is that good education requires good
stories—not solely stories that one is told, however. A good education
relies on the creation of stories that a student can participate in and
feel deeply about. This means that those stories must include others
who are playing roles the student will have to deal with on the job,
and that the roles the student plays in the stories must relate to the
current or future roles that the student intends to play in his or her
career.

The SCC is inherently goal-based. The goals must be those that a
student has already. For small boys, for example, it can be assumed
that the idea of building a truck or designing an airplane is an activ-
ity that would grab their interest. For older students, these would be
ones like current or future job assignments. In an online world, it is
quite possible to create hundreds or thousands of choices and allow
students to pick what they want to do—not what they want to study,
but activities that genuinely excite them.

The SCC is inherently activity-based. The tasks that constitute the
SCC must relate to goals that the student has and the tasks that people
actually perform in the roles that the student will play when the train-
ing is completed. Thus, an SCC is made up of a set of real-life types of
tasks that make up the bulk of the work done by the student, and a set
of events that occasionally interrupt or augment those tasks.

Thanks to a grant from the Kauffman Foundation, we built a full-
year (all day, every day) high school curriculum in health sciences.
This would be, ideally, used in a high school that offered perhaps over
100 full-year curricula. Students would choose four that they liked and
after completing them would graduate from high school. All of the
curricula would teach what it is like to live in a part of the real world,
as well as allowing for practice in the 12 cognitive processes. It takes

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023836
