88

transitioned from an authoritarian state to a democracy, leading to new calls from
the island and from some of its immigrants in the United States for an independent
Taiwan. Seeking to capitalize on the ever-larger number of mainlanders in the United
States and to battle the nascent Taiwan independence movement, PRC authorities
established organizations and Chinese-language schools to bolster their propaganda
work in the United States. The Party’s United Front Work Department founded the
China Council for the Promotion of Peaceful National Reunification in 1988, and
within a decade it had more than one hundred chapters in sixty countries, including
more than a dozen offices in the United States. Chinese officials described Chinese-
language media, Chinese-language schools, and Chinese-backed organizations as the

“three treasures” (==)of united front work overseas.*?

Chinese-language media. By the mid-1990s, analyst He Qinglian estimated that, of
the some one hundred Chinese-language newspapers in the United States, more than
one-third were funded by money from the mainland.** Owners of these newspapers,
seeking subsidies from Beijing, cozied up to PRC authorities with statements such as
“opposing Taiwan independence and fostering peaceful unification are the glorious

missions and historical responsibility of overseas Chinese publications.”*>

Beijing also moved to take control of online and social media outlets. Wenxuecheng
(Cu, http://wenxuecheng.com) is the most popular Chinese-language website

in the United States. Launched in 1997 by a group of students from the University
of Michigan, the website was sold in 2003 to a Taiwanese-American businessman*®
with investments in China. Since being purchased, Wenxuecheng has signed deals

to run news from Xinhua and the China Daily.*’ There is even an unsubstantiated
rumor that the purchase of the website was subsidized by $1 million from the CCP

Propaganda Department.

Duowei is another online source that was for years an independent Chinese-language
media outlet. Among its many scoops was the prediction of the composition of the
sixteenth Politburo Standing Committee. But in 2009, Duowei was purchased by a
Hong Kong businessman* with substantial business interests in China, including two
companies listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. The businessman is a founding
member of the Tsinghua University Center for US-China Relations and is also fond

of writing pro-Beijing essays on China’s claims to the South China Sea. Duowei is
now headquartered in Beijing. Indeed, since selling Duowei, the online news source's

founder*’ has moved to Mingjing (Mirror Media), a Chinese-language web presence

Media

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020547
