reciprocal control, characteristic of
reflex processes, where autonomic
balance can be biased toward one or the
other of the autonomic branches. High
scores indicate sympathetic dominance
and low scores parasympathetic
dominance. Independent estimates of
sympathetic and parasympathetic control
were obtained using standard
measurement procedures, and the level
of parasympathetic control was
subtracted from sympathetic control to
derive a measure of Cardiac Autonomic
Balance. A second metric was designed
to capture an alternative mode of
autonomic control (Cardiac Autonomic
Regulation) that assesses the degree of
relative coactivation (rather than
reciprocal activation) of both branches.
This is a metric that taps into the non-
reciprocal regulatory influences of
higher neural structures. Cardiac
Autonomic Regulation scores were
derived by essentially summing
activities of the sympathetic and
parasympathetic branches to afford a
measure of total overall autonomic
cardiac control. High scores indicate
high activation and low scores indicate
low activation of both branches of the
autonomic nervous system.

In the 50-68-year-old adults in
our sample, spirituality was found to be
associated not only with a lower
incidence of heart attack, but a higher
level of Cardiac Autonomic Regulation.
That is, people who felt closer in their
relationship with God exhibited higher
overall autonomic regulation—both
sympathetic and parasympathetic. This
was associated, in part, with lesser
diminution of parasympathetic control
and a greater degree of coactivation.
Moreover, Cardiac Autonomic
Regulation (but not Cardiac Autonomic
Balance) predicted better overall health

Page |55

status and was associated with a lower
incidence of heart attack. Participants
who had low Cardiac Autonomic
Regulation were more likely to have
suffered from a heart attack.

Could higher Cardiac Autonomic
Regulation scores explain why
spirituality was associated with less risk
for heart attack? That is, could a pattern
of autonomic regulation associated with
spirituality explain the link between
spirituality and heart attack? In order to
address this question, we conducted
statistical tests of these linkages. As we
already knew, both spirituality and
Cardiac Autonomic Regulation are
associated with a lower incidence of
heart attack. When the predictive effects
of spirituality were statistically
extracted, Cardiac Autonomic
Regulation continued to be a significant
predictor of a lower incidence of heart
attack. However, when the linkage test
was reversed and the effects of Cardiac
Autonomic Regulation were extracted,
Spirituality was no longer a significant
predictor. This indicates that Cardiac
Autonomic Regulation is a plausible
mediator that may explain the
relationship between spirituality and
heart attack.

By capturing higher levels of
parasympathetic control and the
associated autonomic coactivation of the
sympathetic and parasympathetic
branches, Cardiac Autonomic
Regulation provided a critical metric that
permitted the study of a previously
“invisible” and mysterious link between
spirituality and health outcomes. This in
no way diminishes the relationship
between spirituality and health, but
rather offers an important hypothesis as
to how spirituality may impact
physiology and health status. Spirituality
reflects an important aspect of the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021301
