136 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

ment in the theft of state secrets in the first week of June. The FBI
is in charge of criminal investigations of civilian U.S. intelligence
workers, even if the alleged crime occurs on an NSA base. The FBI
immediately dispatched a task force of agents to investigate a poten-
tial espionage case in Hawaii. When questioned, Lindsay Mills said
Snowden was away on a business trip. After determining from
airline and hotel data that he was in Hong Kong, the FBI realized
Snowden was a possible intelligence defector. It froze his credit and
bank cards. It also notified the passport office in the State Depart-
ment and the legal attachés at the Hong Kong consulate. The legal
attachés, who were actually FBI field agents posted in Hong Kong,
located Snowden at the Mira hotel on June 8. On the evening of
June 9, Snowden revealed in his twelve-minute video posted on the
Guardian website that he was the source of the stolen NSA docu-
ments. Because Hong Kong is part of China, U.S. law enforcement
did not have the means to recover them.

At that point, determining the magnitude of the theft of docu-
ments became a critical concern of the investigation. Aside from the

© few dozen documents published by The Guardian and The Washing- ®
ton Post, what else had Snowden stolen?

Within the next few days, a small army of forensic investigators
from the FBI, the Defense Department, and the “Q” counterintel-
ligence division of the NSA swarmed onto the NSA base in Hawaii.
The proximate crime scene for their investigation was the National
Threat Operations Center. They examined the cubicle where
Snowden had last worked and then began retracing all his activi-
ties at the NSA from 2009 to 2013. To begin with, they needed to
find out how many documents from the center had been copied and
taken by Snowden.

Meanwhile, the Defense Intelligence Agency (the Pentagon’s own
intelligence service) was kept partially in the dark. Although the
NSA is officially part of the Department of Defense, it operated with
a high degree of autonomy with its own inspector general, inves-
tigative staff, and reporting channels. The DIA did not learn from
the NSA that Snowden had stolen military documents concerning
the joint Cyber Command until July 10. The number of stolen mili-
tary documents from the Department of Defense was staggering.

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 136 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019624
