Trump expert—he seemed intent on “poisoning the well,” in which he created a loop of
suspicion, disgruntlement, and blame heaped on others.

When the president got on the phone after dinner, it was often a rambling affair. In
paranoid or sadistic fashion, he’d speculate on the flaws and weaknesses of each member
of his staff. Bannon was disloyal (not to mention he always looks like shit). Priebus was
weak (not to mention he was short—a midget). Kushner was a suck-up. Spicer was stupid
(and looks terrible too). Conway was a crybaby. Jared and Ivanka should never have come
to Washington.

His callers, largely because they found his conversation peculiar, alarming, or
completely contrary to reason and common sense, often overrode what they might
otherwise have assumed to be the confidential nature of the calls and shared the content
with someone else. Hence news about the inner workings of the White House went into
free circulation. Except it was not so much the inner workings of the White House—
although it would often be reported as such—but the perambulations of the president’s
mind, which changed direction almost as fast as he could express himself. Yet there were
constant tropes in his own narrative: Bannon was about to be cast out, Priebus too, and
Kushner needed his protection from the other bullies.

So if Bannon, Priebus, and Kushner were now fighting a daily war with one another, it
was mightily exacerbated by something of a running disinformation campaign about them
that was being prosecuted by the president himself. A chronic naysayer, he viewed each
member of his inner circle as a problem child whose fate he held in his hand. “We are
sinners and he is God” was one view; “We serve at the president’s displeasure,” another.

OOK Ok

In the West Wing of every administration since at least that of Clinton and Gore, the vice
president has occupied a certain independent power base in the organization. And yet Vice
President Mike Pence—the fallback guy in an administration the length of whose term
remained the subject of something like a national office betting pool—was a cipher, a
smiling presence either resisting his own obvious power or unable to seize it.

“I do funerals and ribbon cuttings,” he told a former Republican Hill colleague. In this,
he was seen as either feigning an old-fashioned, what-me-worry, standard-issue veep
identity lest he upset his patron or, in fact, honestly acknowledging who he was.

Katie Walsh, amid the chaos, saw the vice president’s office as a point of calm in the
storm. Pence’s staff was not only known by people outside the White House for the
alacrity with which it returned calls and for the ease with which it seemed to accomplish
West Wing tasks, it also seemed to be comprised of people who liked each other and who
were dedicated to a common goal: eliminating as much friction as possible around the vice
president.

Pence started nearly every speech saying, “I bring greetings from our forty-fifth

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019977
