Despite what some called among the most exhaustive investigations in Palm Beach Police history — which dug up such evidence as an
Amazon receipt for Epstein’s purchase of titles including “Training With Miss Abernathy: A Workbook for Exotic Slaves and Their

Owners” — there is nothing in the police record suggesting any other men were involved in Epstein’s predatory behavior.

Ae aig. ae er - & For da
seg “ peal : . Your,
ia ‘piliag Adasen eit 2s Shipping Address: * | addre
hye E ; jeffrey Eostein ; f
me aN zis  358 El Brillo Way + Eanes

Palin Beach das: an Palen Beach. Florida 33460
+ USA it Bae ed USA .
os a n et
Fi tbrdS7708/~3r/nent/A32. SORTExtFast Trac 8
eS a oT la
a é 7 days
. them Price * Total _ pont
IN THIS SHIPMENT =. : rN WE. a
SM 101: A Realistic Introduction ye . os “pon m3 $1 547 em 516 Av
pietounan. Jay cone  weet A zo ae
. A “ os re? : re 3 Pein ee
S) ecat: Rojdanaiar Erotic gre rpce Skills and Tools... se 43 Boe _Tha
=B ve --- Paperback. es . i a : | com
va nel oh faning With Miss Abernathy: A A Workbook for Erotic Slaves and Theis ne no Srtas. = oN
th A *Cheistina <s- spepertaee: Mone oy c sag We be ete ve tide wag ;
nu. os

View this image >
Palm Beach County Court

The criminal case provoked numerous lawsuits from women alleging they were victims of Epstein’s proclivities, followed by secret
settlements with more than two dozen of them. One firm bringing some of those cases employed a young lawyer named Bradley
Edwards, who managed some of the cases. In 2009, a founding partner at the firm, Scott Rothstein, fled the country before ultimately
returning to plead guilty of running a $1.2 billion Ponzi scheme built around recruiting investors to buy stakes in litigation settlements

that turned out to be phony.

As details of the fraud emerged, Epstein sued Rothstein and Edwards in Palm Beach County Court for racketeering, alleging, among
other things, that they dangled Bill Clinton’s association with Epstein as a lure to investors, implying that settlements would be fast and
sizable. Epstein ultimately dropped his suit in 2012, but by that time, Edwards had countersued for malicious prosecution and abuse of

process.

That case, along with a claim by Virginia Roberts against the federal government over the 2007 prosecution deal in district court (which
she filed as a “Jane Doe” in 2008), are still pending and are the source of most of the scant information about Clinton that has
appeared. Scarola, who in the past sued Chiquita over payments to violent leftist Colombian rebels and won a $1.45 billion verdict over
Morgan Stanley (that was later overturned), is the lawyer bringing the suit in county court in West Palm Beach, while Paul Cassell, a

former federal judge known for his critical take on mandatory-minimum sentences, mans the federal case four blocks away.
Neither Cassell nor Edwards responded to requests for comment.

It is primarily from pleadings in those cases that the press has been getting a glimpse inside the lifestyle of Epstein, and, by extension,
Clinton. “Edwards had sound legal basis for believing former President Clinton had relevant and discoverable information,” part of one

pleading reads. Roberts, in her case, alleges that Epstein forced her “to be sexually exploited by Defendant’s adult male peers,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022679
