area. In addition, Myanmar is in a critical geographic position
for China’s economic concerns. President Xi has the Belt and
Road Initiative, this far reaching strategy to build
infrastructure across Asia and into Africa and even Eastern
Europe. And Myanmar plays a critical position potentially for
an oil or energy pipeline that would allow China to get
resources from the Middle East and avoid the bottleneck in
the Straits of Malacca. For all of these reasons, China would
support the Myanmar government.

Host: Robert, is China’s support strengthened by opposition
from Washington where President Trump’s administration is
calling for Rohingya refugees to return to safe zones?

RLK: | don’t think that’s a big motivation for China. Far more
important are local geopolitics, the Belt and Road Initiative,
the potential energy pipeline. I don’t think China considers
opposing Washington a major motivator for their strategy.
U.S. comments seem normal for these situations, but are fairly
ineffectual - look at Crimea or other places in the world
where similar situations have occurred.

RLK: Refugee crises are great tragedies for the world and it
seems like we have more of them. There’s more of a desire for
individual groups of people to assert their own independence.
We see it in the Kurds, South Sudan, many places in the world.
Perhaps it’s our interconnected world of 24-hour-a-day
internet, which allows similar people to congregate together
and take up their own personal interests. So it’s a very
complex situation. China is dealing with it - for the reasons |
said - for what it believes to be in its own interests.

Host: Robert Lawrence Kuhn, thank you very much for
joining us from Beijing. We appreciate your insights.

T= Local Time 20:13

ROHINGYA REFUGEE CRISIS
UN: Rohingya Muslims facing humanitarian catastrophe

EIGN WORLD NEWS 3s ” ROHINGYA MUSLIMS RESPOND TO CLAIMS THE
w,.!

ROHINGYA REFUGEE CRISIS
Myanmar's army denies targeting civilians
EIGIS WORLD NEWS 4g] DOW 22158.18

NASDAQ 6460.19

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_033254
