Your daily beast foe is still at it, and trying to promote her sites against you in the same way that we try to
depromote you.

As far as this site is concerned, and the continuation of this, I do not know what you wish to do. Clearly, you
have no interest in my continuing. And, I am not sure if you want to continue the project at all. If the latter, and
you stop, eventually it will just go into the way of entropy, and it will return to the old form. The major work
has been done, but it needs to be maintained. For it to get better results, it needs to have constant input and
supervision, and that means generating proper content, not just editing and grammatical fixes. Writers need to
know what to write. THe philanthrophy site is at the bottom of the page precisely because you have not
allowed us to add any content to it, and as a result it suffers.

You paid Mike $2500, which he applied for the purchasing of his replacement servers, but his fee of $7500
balance is now due if you want to continue. Please let me know what you want to do. I need to inform him, and
if you are not going to use him, he needs to take on his other clients and devote his time there.

This needs to be contrasted with what we started with, which was a search on your name, which had nine/10
very toxic prominent stories, and toxic Wiki article and headline.

Search Results
1. Jeffrey Epstein - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

- 9 visits - Dec 2

Jeffrey Edward Epstein (born January 20, 1953 in Coney Island, New York) is a Jewish-American
financier and philanthropist. Epstein was raised in Coney ...

Philanthrophic Work - The Epstein Foundation - Promotion of Scientists
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeffrey_ Epstein - Cached - Similar

2. Images for jeffrey epstein

- Report images

aaa ——a —— ne aaa

3. Jeffrey Epstein | Profiles in Science

- 4 visits - Nov 3

Jeffrey Epstein presents some of the greatest minds and finest scientists working today.
www.jeffreyepsteinscience.com/ - Cached

4. Jeffrey Epstein: International Moneyman of Mystery

He's pals with a passel of Nobel Prize-winning scientists, CEOs like Leslie Wexner of the Limited,
socialite Ghislaine Maxwell, even Donald Trump.

nymag.com/nymetro/news/people/n_7912/ - Cached - Similar

5. Edge: JEFFREY EPSTEIN

JEFFREY E. EPSTEIN is a money manager and science philanthropist who currently serves as the
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Financial Trust ...
www.edge.org/3rd_culture/bios/epstein.html - Cached - Similar

6. The Plastic Surgeon: Jeffrey Epstein | Full of Crop

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022224
