Another source, one who had worked with Epstein, said, 
He's reckless, and he's gotten more so. Money does that to you. 
He's breaking the oath he made to himself— that he would never 
do anything that would expose him in the media. Right now, in 
the wake of the publicity following his trip with Clinton, he 
must be in a very difficult place. 
148 
Vicky Ward: Novembei 
IA/hat I had 'on d 
Beast article .pu 
some remarkah 
on-the-record stories from 
who came from Phoenix. . 
character was vouchsafed 
the artist Eric Fischl, had 1 
ing room, of how Epstein h 
separately, her younger sist 
Ward had written it all 
the ifs, dotted the i's. 
But when she called E1 
the allegations completely. 
Just the mention of 
rTERSON 
to had been invited by Ghis-
at Epstein's town house. There, 
;uests far outnumbered the male 
you'd see at Upper East Side din-
ny seemed foreign and dressed a 
.ded a cocktail party thrown by 
attended, which was filled, she 
els, Ward wrote. Some of the 
an says. 
had worked with Epstein, said, 
nore so. Money does that to you. 
to himself— that he would never 
: him in the media. Right now, in 
Dwing his trip with Clinton, he 
1) 
148 
CHAPTER 38 
Vicky Ward: November 2002 
What I had 'on the girls, Ward explained in a Daily 
Beast article published after Epstein's arrest, were 
some remarkably brave first-person accounts. Three 
on-the-record stories from a family: a mother and her daughters 
who came from Phoenix. The oldest daughter, an artist whose 
character was vouchsafed to me by several sources, including 
the artist Eric Fischl, had told me, weeping as she sat in my liv-
ing room, of how Epstein had attempted to seduce both her and, 
separately, her younger sister, then only 16. 
Ward had written it all down in her notes. She had crossed 
the t's, dotted the i's. 
.. But when she called Epstein to get his response, he denied 
the allegations completely. 
Just the mention of a 16-year-old girl, Epstein told her, 
149 
JAMES PATTERSON 
carries the wrong impression. I don't see what it adds to the 
piece. And that makes me unhappy. 
If some sort of criminal investigation had taken place, that 
would have been one thing. But, at that time, no criminal 
investigation into Epstein's affairs had been launched. And in 
the absence of an investigation, the rumors of Epstein's dealings 
with very young women seemed to be just that—rumors. 
Graydon Carter consulted his lawyers, his editors, and his 
fact-checkers. And then something odd and disturbing happened 
at the Conde Nast building, then in Times Square. 
As usual, Carter had come into the office early. He swiped his 
key card in the lobby, pressed the elevator button, and arrived in 
the hallway outside the reception area on the twenty-first floor. 
It would have been a perfect time to review Ward's story. 
Her description of Epstein's town house—which is said to 
have been the largest private residence in New York City at the 
time—was priceless: Inside, amid the flurry of menservants 
attired in sober black suits and pristine white gloves, you feel 
you have stumbled into someone's private Xanadu, she'd writ-
ten. This is no mere rich person's home, but a high-walled, 
eclectic, imperious fantasy that seems to have no boundaries. 
The entrance hall is decorated not with paintings but with row 
upon row of individually framed eyeballs; these, the owner tells 
people with relish, were imported from England, where they 
were made for injured soldiers. Next comes a marble foyer, which 
does have a painting, in the manner of Jean Dubuffet ... but the 
host coyly refuses to tell visitors who painted it. In any case, 
150 
One of the photogra 
captured on video during 
Palm Beach Police Departm 
search warrant walk-throi 
of Epstein's El Brillo N 
residence (Palm Beach Pc 
Departm 
Jeffrey Epstein, Coney Isl 
circa 1969 (Anonyn-
