2D

able to track down the mutation in the obese mice and found that it
blocked production of a particular protein hormone, which they
named leptin. The leptin protein is only secreted by fat cells. When
similar analysis was performed on the db mice, it was found that the
disrupted db gene was responsible for encoding a protein that
functions as a leptin receptor: When it binds circulating leptin at the
cell surface, it sets in motion a biochemical cascade inside the cell.
Most provocatively, the leptin receptor is expressed strongly on
neurons in those areas of the hypothalamus that cause obesity or
leanness when destroyed.

So with Friedman's key findings we now have a reasonable
hypothesis for how the hypothalamus can sense body weight and use
that information to maintain it within a narrow range. When weight is
gained, the amount of body fat increases, and since fat cells secrete
leptin in proportion to their mass, leptin levels will consequently rise.
Leptin circulates in the blood and crosses into the brain, where it is
sensed by leptin receptors expressed on neurons in the hypothalamus.
Activation of those neurons by leptin suppresses appetite and
increases energy expenditure. When weight is lost, the system works
in the opposite direction: Less fat means reduced levels of circulating
leptin, increased appetite, and reduced energy expenditure.

So far, the evidence that supports this hypothesis is quite promising.
Leptin levels in the blood do indeed increase with weight gain and
decrease with weight loss. Injections of leptin in obese mutant mice
cause them to reduce food intake and lose weight (and these
injections work even if tiny doses are delivered directly to the
hypothalamus). Injections of leptin in db mutant mice have no effect,
because there are no leptin receptors in the hypothalamus for the
exogenous leptin to activate.

Of those people who are morbidly obese, less than 1 percent harbor
DNA mutations that disrupt the function of the leptin gene—a low

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029956
