149

Turnbull also introduced legislation to establish a new Department of Home Affairs
which, among other roles, would house a national counter-foreign-interference
coordinator who would integrate intelligence and enforcement and coordinate policy
development. On December 16, 2017, at the height of this debate—and days after
Turnbull introduced the new laws—the coalition government passed a serious electoral
test by winning a by-election in the Sydney seat of Bennelong. According to one
opinion poll, two-thirds of voters support the foreign interference legislation, with just
11 percent opposed—in a seat that has one of the largest ethnic Chinese communities
in the country.

And yet, despite this policy progress, strong evidence of electoral support, and
favorable international recognition, the Turnbull government found the politics and
the diplomacy to be heavy going. At one level this is not surprising. The CCP excels in
using covert and deceptive means to work preexisting fault lines of open, democratic
societies. It has shown itself prepared to use the levers of economic engagement as a
tool of political coercion. And there is no precedent for a mid-sized, open, multicultural
nation standing its ground against a rising authoritarian superpower that accounts for a
large proportion of its migrants and one in every three of its export dollars.

After seizing the political and policy initiative in 2017, the Turnbull government went
quiet over the first half of 2018. It faced pushback from powerful domestic lobbying
groups arguing that the proposed legislation went too far. Media firms targeted the
espionage law, charities the donations law, and universities the proposed transparency
law. Further resistance was mounted by multicultural lobbyists who maintained that
Australia’s reputation as an inclusive society was challenged by mention of foreign
government interference in community affairs. Prominent business leaders and
academics with China contracts called for an end to “China-bashing.”

China’s embassy in Canberra also played a part, publicly intervening as if it were

a champion of Chinese Australian communities to confront “racist bigotry” in
Australia. China’s government consistently portrayed the counter-interference policies
and conversation as an attack on “China” and “Chinese people.” And Beijing framed
Canberra’s efforts to defend its institutions as an attack on the bilateral relationship. As if
to confirm its own judgment, Beijing was reported to have frozen ministerial and official
meetings across a range of key portfolios. In the ensuing silence, some of the CCP’s most
potent narratives filled the vacuum. It was not clear that the Turnbull government could
push through the most significant overhaul of counterintelligence legislation in forty
years without explaining why it was necessary.

It took a series of further explosive media investigations and some unorthodox political
interventions to regain control of the conversation and ensure bipartisan support for the

Appendix 2

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020608
