Director Tate.»
: eorge Clooney” _ A

avigating our presidential

campaign was a piece of cake

compared to understanding the
nuances of the 2011 Oscar race for the
most revered artistic honor in the world.

This is how nine films fell into the big
picture.

Three premiered in Cannes mid-May,
a distant nine months ago, creating an
Oscar campaign as long as any human
pregnancy. At the Palais, the first inkling
of Oscar buzz was born as the reclusive
Woody Allen premiered Midnight in
Paris. PBS later aired a documentary of
Woody discussing his forty-four films
showing the astonishing depth of his
talent that made you want to immediately
hand him the Oscar for Best Picture.
Academy rules and Woody forbade
marketing this gem.

Woody is not a member of the
Academy becase he doesn't feel that films
should be in competition. He told me, “A
statue does not change your life. You still
get a cold. You can't get a date. You still

58 | AVENUE MAGAZINE « APRIL 2012

have everyday things to worry about.”
The Academy learned to love him from
a distance and gave him Best Original
Screenplay as a consolation.

Terrence Malicks long-awaited,
esoteric The Tree of Life was unveiled at
Cannes and won the coveted Palme D’Or,
positioning it for a nomination.

The Artist, created by the French, shot
in Hollywood and about Hollywood was
the festival surprise. This charming and
oddly original black-and-white silent
entry was introduced by the ringmaster
himself, Harvey Weinstein. No one
could pronounce or spell director Michel
Hazanavicius’s name. Jean Dujardin
could not speak a word of English and
neither could his 10-year-old co-star, the
Jack Russell Uggie who had been rescued
from the pound after two adopters found

him too wild. Tragically Uggie developed
an undisclosed neurological disorder
during production, forcing him to retire
at the height of his popularity.

No slam dunk Oscar winner emerged in
Cannes. Any future film could easily win.

DreamWorks’ The Help premiered
in LA in August and distributor Disney
began propelling the politically correct and
socially significant film to box office heaven
of $200 million. Viola Davis and Octavia
Spencer were forecast to win Oscars.

In September, the Toronto and New
York Film Festivals and Fox Searchlight
presented Alexander Payne’s Hawaiian
family saga, The Descendants, which broke
out of the pack with whispers of winning.
Beloved George Clooney, playing a
father for the first time was hailed as a
shoo-in for best actor. Directing Ides of
March added momentum.

Also at New York's festival Marty
Scorsese and Paramount sneaked an
unfinished cut of Hugo in Alice Tully
Hall, built for concerts but converted into
a 3-D theater. Marty was christened the
visionary genius of an innovative, costly
3-D masterpiece.

Director Bennett Miller's highly
anticipated Moneyball for Sony hit a
grand slam at its west coast premiere in

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013452
