Epstein building compound on Great St. James | News | virginislandsdailynews.com 5/7/19, 9:15 AM

Kellerhals organized Great St. Jim LLC on Oct. 26, 2015, with
herself as the sole member, and identified Geary’s company,
Business Basics VI LLC, as the resident agent.

Kellerhals could not be reached for comment Monday.

Documents contained in the permit application file show
that DPNR employees and Epstein’s staff have been
communicating for years about the project.

“(H]i Erika, spoke with Jeff yesterday and let him know that
the scopes of work from both applications are being
combined into one single permit. Dave of my staff is
supposed to reach out to the LSJ [Little St. James] staff and
arrange when he can make the required site visit. there are
some specific details that were not included in the
application package, so they will have to be verified during
the site visit and notes made on the submitted drawings,”
Oriol wrote to Kellerhals in an email dated Aug. 16, 2016,
under the subject line, “RE: Cistern Permit.”

An email from DPNR legal counsel Michele Baker to
Kellerhals dated Aug. 26, 2016, lists anumber of documents
required for the permit application to proceed, and indicates
that “the OWNER” has to sign off.

Kellerhals responded in an email that “I understand that
there are some places where the owner needs to sign if the
attorney completes the application. I will discuss with Jeffrey
and get you copies of those signed attachments asap. You are
correct that I am no longer the sole member. In fact, 1am not
a member at all. The only position I serve is as counsel to
Great St. Jim.”

Epstein signed off on the application for a Coastal Zone
Management major permit on Jan. 10, 2017, identifying
himself as “President of Poplar, Inc., sole member of Great
St. Jim, LLC.”

Permit application documents and site plans on file show
that Epstein is planning a complex of buildings across the
approximately 160-acre island, connected by private road.
The plans include a barge dock, two homes, cottages, an
amphitheater, gardens, a marine electrical cable, solar array
and generator, storage building, security building, workshed
and machine shop, and an “underwater office & pool.”

The permit application addresses mitigation efforts for
endangered corals and the Virgin Islands tree boa — which
was spotted on the island during site visits — and indicates

http://www.virginislandsdailynews.com/news/epstein-building-compoun...n-great-st-james/article_ a49261e9-40f0-57b1-9501-605e26e74cf3.html Page 3 of 4

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031211
