Do you trust me?” I asked him.
Yes, he said. Absolutely.

I clenched my nails into Mica's side, and his back arched. It was the clearest invitation I'd
seen from him and, I suspected, the clearest invitation he knew how to give. If he even
knew that he was giving it. It can take a lot of time and experience for a submissive to
learn what they want well enough to give good feedback for it. It's one of those
submissive skills that people don't think about enough, because for some reason we're
always too busy teaching dominant skills.

I kissed Mica again, and tore into his back.

He was ready for it. His breathing fast became irregular; he gasped; he shook in my
hands. After a while, I pulled back and simply observed the intensity flooding through
him. His body undulated like a wave.

I knew you were dangerous, he breathed. In exactly the way that I want.

Dangerous, I repeated. I hesitated. What do you mean?” His eyelashes flickered, and I
saw that he was too far under to answer me. He probably barely knew what he was
saying. (In S&M, we call this state of mind subspace.)

I pushed him a little farther. I only used my nails, but you can do a lot with your nails. I
said his name, over and over. He struggled, he fought his own body. I observed the
struggle and saw myself in it. I know, I told him.

Eventually Mica said, quite seriously, that he wanted to stop. I was certain that he could
take more. A lot more. I might have been able to convince him to continue, and had him
thank me for it later. But he needs to know that I'll respect him when he says to stop.
Also, in a somewhat self-interested way, I don't want to set a precedent where his
boundaries are entirely nonverbal; where his limits depend on my capacity to see through
him. Maybe someday, when we know each other really well. Right now, it would make it
too easy to seriously harm him... and for him to hate me afterwards.

So I stopped.

No one has ever touched me so deeply, so fast before, Mica said, later. And, later later:
This changes everything. I lay still, kept my arms around him, listening. That was
total catharsis, he said. I mean -- a note of doubt crept into his voice. Do you actually
like doing that?”

Yes, I said. I said it fast and hard, because he needs to believe it. I understood why he
was asking: I've been there. When I was first getting into S&M, the first time I felt that
way, I had a hard time believing that my partner actually liked doing that for me. It felt so
incredible. It felt like I couldn't possibly be giving back as much as I received.
Sometimes, I still feel that insecurity.

I'm glad you like it, Mica said. I felt his body relax next to mine. Because I'm going to
want that again.”

I know, I said softly.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018675
