January 25, 2007 - GPS-integrated shoes - now why didn't I think of that? The Xplorer line of
Smart GPS shoes from GTX Corp. come with an integrated GPS tracking device which helps
parents keep tabs on their children. In addition, parents are able to set up a virtual boundary, where

they will be duly noted via SMS should the shoes leave beyond the designated area.
GPS Shoes Let Mommy Know Where You Are

January 25, 2007 - Good news for worried parents. These GTX GPS Xplorer Smart Shoes will let
you keep track of your kids no matter where you are. Here's how it works.

Define a safe area around your house or school that it's safe for your kids to wander around.
When the GPS signal goes outside of the area, an SMS will be sent to your phone alerting you of

the situation. Then you're free to call your wife, the police, or Chloe from 24.
The GTX GPS shoes have a small GPS tracking device inside the shoe actually
communicates the location to a central location tracking service

ESATO NEWS - Jan 26, 2007 - Xplorer, the next generation of smart GPS shoes, incorporates the
smallest, most powerful and robust GPS tracking device on the market today. Drawing on a long
history of patented embedded GPS technology for footwear and other consumer products, GTXC
has been in development on the Xplorer line for the past three years. The new line advances the
state of GPS tracking technology considerably, utilizing several groundbreaking innovations

currently in the patent process.
GTX Corp. announces the Xplorer line of Smart GPS shoes

Thu, 25 Jan 2007 - The GTX GPS shoes have a small GPS tracking device inside the shoe actually
communicates the location to a central location tracking service. So you could get your kids these
GPS sneakers and define an area where it is safe for the kid to wander around. When leaving the
defined area an SMS would be sent to your mobile phone notifying you of the situation. GTX calls

this feature GeoFencing. The batteries powering the GPS unit inside the shoes last several days.

With Liberty and Surveillance for All: Person-to-person Surveillance Gets Green Light
from Public

Survey research from Boston University graduate students shows that Americans are more willing
to engage in surveillance of loved ones than one might expect given our love for independence.

Half of Americans are comfortable with being electronically monitored by a loved one for safety

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018189
