masochist (BDSM): A person who enjoys receiving pain.

New Relationship Energy (polyamory): The obsessive, irrational joy one feels after
starting a relationship with a new and awesome partner. Here's an article about it:

http://aphroweb.net/articles/nre.htm

out [of the closet] (queer studies): An adjective to describe a person who is open with
people outside her sexual subculture about her sexual identity.

play (BDSM): A verb for having an S&M encounter. For example, if Clarisse was
whipped by a gentleman, she might say that she played with him. Clarisse once saw a
display at the Leather Archives & Museum claiming that in Old Guard Leather Culture
(1.e, gay men's S&M culture starting around the 1950s), the word was more often work
than play -- apparently, even S&M toys were usually called tools.

play party (BDSM): A party where S&M can happen openly. Some play parties ban
sexual intercourse, while others don't.

polyamory: A community to support people who want to have multiple lovers and be
honest with everyone involved. Polyamory usually focuses more on an emotional
relationship than swing, but not always. The writer Franklin Veaux has a good Polyamory
101: http://www. xeromag. com/fvpoly.html And the blog Polyamory In The News has a
guard post on the various distinctions between polyamory and swing:

201 0 html

primary relationship (polyamory): A relationship with more commitment and
expectations than other relationships. For example, a primary relationship might be one
where the participants live together and/or are married. Polyamorists sometimes disagree
about whether relationship hierarchies are desirable.

rape culture (feminism): A culture in which rape is prevalent and is maintained through
fundamental attitudes and beliefs about gender, sexuality, and violence, including rape
myths.

rape myths (feminism): Cultural ideas that make it harder to recognize, prosecute, and
heal from rape. For example, many people believe that rape usually happens to young,
hot women... but interviews with rapists show that they usually prioritize targets based
on how vulnerable they are, rather than how hot they are.

sadist (BDSM): A person who enjoys inflicting pain.

safeword (BDSM): A word that any S&M participant can say at any time to stop the
action. Safewords are extensively analyzed within this book, in the The Annotated
Safeword (part 1).

scene; The Scene (BDSM): The word scene is often used to indicate an S&M encounter.
For example, if Clarisse was whipped by some dude, she had a scene” with him (or
some would say that she scened with him). The Scene is also sometimes used to indicate
the public S&M community -- the dungeons, workshops, lectures, discussion groups, and
meetups that create an open network of BDSMers in many areas.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018701
