to Christ. The brain waves recorded from electrodes deep in her brain demonstrated
transient episodes of spiking in a midline limbic structure called the septum and in
the right hippocampus, deep in the temporal lobe. Paul MacLean and others since
have shown that electrical stimulation of these and related brain regions could
produce pleasure and grooming reactions in cats and prolonged penile erections in
squirrel monkeys.

Many years later, | spoke about Donna with the Harvard professor of
neurology, Norman Geschwind. He took me to his twice a week epilepsy clinic. In
an effort to demonstrate what is now known as the Geschwind Syndromes of
between seizure, inter-ictal personality changes in patients with temporal lobe
epilepsy, he stood in front of the patients’ waiting room. In a loud voice, he asked
that all people keeping diaries and personal notebooks please stand up. Several did
so, some displaying their notebooks in outstretched hands. The pages that | saw
were filled mostly with religious writing, biblical quotations and exclamation points.
Gathering the positive responders together, he asked them in turn what religion they
were. Several answered the question with the question, “When?” It turned out that
many reported having several experiences of religious conversion. Geschwind
called them “Jamesian Episodes” after William James’ Varieties of Religious
Experience. He then asked when was the last time they engaged in sexual activity.
For most of them, including those that were married, it had been years. Thought the
men said they were not impotent, experiencing early morning spontaneous
erections, they claimed a complete loss of interest in sex though feeling warmly
affectionate toward people generally. As he anticipated, the patients were
emotionally intense and unstoppably loquacious, needing to speak at length about
their moral philosophies. They persisted in following us around the clinic waiting
room, several speaking at once. In his lectures and papers, Geschwind called this
last feature, difficulty in separation, interpersonal “stickiness.” First reported by the
French electroencephalographer, Henri Gastaut, a history of multiple ecstatic
religious experiences, increasing emotional intensity and lability, hyposexualilty (not
impotence), moralizing religiosity, compulsive and frequently poetic writing and

tendency to cling to people is now called the Geschwind Syndrome of temporal lobe

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013518
