97

Promoting Integrity

Figuring out how to properly counter the PRC’s influence operations in both
English- and Chinese-language media presents enormous challenges in a free society.
The United States could consider restrictions on state-controlled media outlets,
which would not include publicly funded broadcasters, such as the BBC, which
maintain editorial independence. Failing that, the recent requirement that state-run
publications, TV and radio broadcasters, and potentially their employees, register as
agents of a foreign government is a partial solution.*’ And in late 2017, Russia’s RT
registered as a foreign agent®® while in September 2018, the US Justice Department

reportedly also ordered CGTN and Xinhua to register as agents of a foreign power.*!

When it comes to independent Chinese-language media, the US government should
consider doing more to help such independent outlets survive, including using
grants via the Fulbright program or other vehicles, such as the State Department
International Visitors or Speakers’ Bureau. Domestically, the US government could also
consider aiding the operations of independent Chinese-language media, including
manufacturing credits for printing press operations, and nonprofit tax designations

to allow journalism business models to survive the current transitional crisis. Private
charitable foundations can also make a difference in helping independent Chinese-

language media remain editorially independent and financially viable.

Promoting Reciprocity

The time has come for the US government to demand reciprocity for American
journalists attempting to do their professional work in China. To the extent that they
are prevented from doing so as a result of visa denials and restrictions of access, the US
State Department should respond in kind by restricting visas and access for Chinese
journalists in the United States. To the extent that American journalists experience
harassment and physical violence, this should also have a bearing on the granting of

visas and access to Chinese journalists.

NOTES

1 He Qinglian has written the most detailed study of the Chinese-language media landscape in the United
States. It is currently unpublished.

2 Troianovski, Anton. “China Agency Nears Times Square.” Wall Street Journal. June 30, 2010. https://www
.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424052748 7043346045 75339281420753918.

Section 6

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020556
