JAMES PATTERSON

this trip as well. I was supposed to interview a girl and bring
her back to the United States for Epstein.

3]. [Left blank in the original]

32. I did the massage training in Chiang Mai. While I
was there, I met a great and special guy and told him hon-
estly what I was being forced to do. He told me I should get
out of it. I told him that the people I was working for were
very powerful and that I could not walk away or disobey
them without risking serious punishment, including my life.
He told me he would protect me. I had confidence [in] him
and I saw his love and help as my opportunity to escape and
to be with someone who truly loved me and would protect
me. I married him and flew to Australia.

33. I called Epstein and told him I was not coming back.
He asked why? I said “I’ve fallen in love.” Epstein basically
said “good luck and have a good life.” I could tell he was not
happy. I was afraid of what he was going to do to me. I
thought he or one of his powerful friends might send some-
one to hurt me or have me killed.
34. From that point onward, out of concern for my safety
and general well-being, I stayed in Australia with my hus-
band. I was in Australia from late 2002 to October 2013. To
be clear, I was never in the United States during these years,
not even for a short trip to visit my mother. And my absence
from the United States was not voluntary —I was hiding
from Epstein out of fear of what he would do to me if I
returned to the United States.
35. In around 2007, after not hearing from anyone for
years, out of the blue I was contacted by someone who identi-
fied himself with a plain sounding name and claimed he was

246

sei nai os

Fy

with the FBI. It seemed ve
cial criminal investigation
that. I hadn't heard Epste
who this person was and 1
tell what was going on.

36. This man said he
The man asked if I had be
instinct was to say nothii
really with the FBI or any
questions, telling him that
met him at a young age. Bu
This man never offered to
Instead, he asked me right
practices. I thought it woulc
ment officer to behave tha
uncomfortable and suspicic
ing me.

37. I told the man nothi
versation probably didn’t
immediately triggered all of
erful friends that had cause
If the call accomplished an
state of fear and told me th
and had nobody officially pi

38. I suspected that the i
for Epstein or one of Epstein:
if this was really an agent w
would have known who I wa
ual crimes in many differer
viewed me in a way that woul

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022143
