This devolved into a further rationalization, or Trump truth: “The president was very
clear on what he wanted to deliver to the American public,” said Walsh. He was “excellent
in communicating this.” At the same time, she acknowledged that it was not at all clear in
any specific sense what he wanted. Hence, there was another rationalization: Trump was
“inspirational not operational.”

Kushner, understanding that Bannon’s white board represented Bannon’s agenda more
than the president’s agenda, got to wondering how much of this source text was being
edited by Bannon. He made several attempts to comb through his father-in-law’s words on
his own before expressing frustration with the task and giving up.

Mick Mulvaney, the former South Carolina congressman now head of the Office of
Management and Budget and directly charged with creating the Trump budget that would
underlie the White House program, also fell back on the Trump spoken record. Bob
Woodward’s 1994 book, The Agenda, is a blow-by-blow account of the first eighteen
months of the Clinton White House, most of it focused on creating the Clinton budget,
with the single largest block of the president’s time devoted to deep contemplation and
arguments about how to allocate resources. In Trump’s case, this sort of close and
continuous engagement was inconceivable; budgeting was simply too small-bore for him.

“The first couple of times when I went to the White House, someone had to say, This is
Mick Mulvaney, he’s the budget director,” said Mulvaney. And in Mulvaney’s telling
Trump was too scattershot to ever be of much help, tending to interrupt planning with
random questions that seem to have come from someone’s recent lobbying or by some
burst of free association. If Trump cared about something, he usually already had a fixed
view based on limited information. If he didn’t care, he had no view and no information.
Hence, the Trump budget team was also largely forced to return to Trump’s speeches
when searching for the general policy themes they could then fasten into a budget
program.

OOK Ok

Walsh, sitting within sight of the Oval Office, was located at something like the ground
zero of the information flow between the president and his staff. As Trump’s primary
scheduler, her job was to ration the president’s time and organize the flow of information
to him around the priorities that the White House had set. In this, Walsh became the
effective middle person among the three men working hardest to maneuver the president
—Bannon, Kushner, and Priebus.

Each man saw the president as something of a blank page—or a scrambled one. And
each, Walsh came to appreciate with increasing incredulity, had a radically different idea
of how to fill or remake that page. Bannon was the alt-right militant. Kushner was the
New York Democrat. And Priebus was the establishment Republican. “Steve wants to
force a million people out of the country and repeal the nation’s health law and lay on a

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019972
