Turing’s Machine 215

The advantage of this cipher is that I can easily remember the name
George. I don’t need to write it down. And the circular application makes
the message sufficiently obscure you cantt easily work it out...

Is this, therefore, a good code?

No.

This cipher is easy to break. Once you have guessed that I have
applied a repeated short code word, you can write out ALL the possibilities
and decrypt my message! This may be tedious, but if you are fighting a
war and your life depends on it, you can employ a thousand people to
write them all out. The British government employed 10,000 people at
Bletchley Park, many of them doing exactly this. You might think that
applying ALL the possibilities is too time consuming in practice but
there are many shortcuts. If I suspect the message contains the name
of a German town all I need do is try keys until I find a German town
somewhere in the message then work my way outwards from there. Or
perhaps I suspect the key is something easy to remember like the name
of the Commandant’s dog. I can try ALL German dog names until I get
lucky. If I’ve 10,000 people working for me this is easy.

The Enigma machine and the coding process set up to operate it
was designed to remove these loopholes. For a start, the keys were all
random numbers taken from a code book — no dog names allowed — and
the machine took the idea of a simple progressive cipher and made it
much more complex.

Imagine I took my GeorgeGeorgeGeorge pattern but then every
3 character added one, every 14 character subtracted 15 and every
40 character added the 3™ letter of the First Mate’s mother’s maiden
name. Now this would be a VERY hard code to break. I would need a
machine to code messages because if I tried to do it by hand I would
make so many mistakes that the messages I send would be unintelligible.
The Enigma machine made these coding schemes a practical possibility.
But, although Enigma is hard to break it is not impossible with enough
computing power. Is there any code that is impossible to break?

An Unbreakable code

Is there a way of coding a message so you can never break it?

The answer is there are two ways to code a message so it is
PERFECTLY safe. The first is to use a one-time pad and the second is
quantum cryptography.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015905
