Turing’s Machine 217

The Perfect Code

The proof that a one-time pad is perfectly secret is straightforward.
Imagine I take a coin and flip it 1000 times. PI write down some of the
results as follows:

HHTHHHTTHTTTHTTTTTHTH...

I give you a copy of my results and keep one for myself. Now we
each have the same random set of Heads and Tails recorded on a piece
of paper. I can convert any message from letters to binary numbers: ‘a
= 00000001, ‘b’ = 00000010, ‘’ = 00000011 and so on. If you are not
familiar with binary just assume I have a code where we only ever use
combinations of 0s or 1s. To encrypt the message we flip each bit — 0 goes
to 1 or 1 goes to 0 — using my random list of heads and tails according
to the following rule: If I have a head flip the bit, otherwise leave it the
same. I now have a randomized message, and it really is truly random. To
convince yourself, imagine answering the question, do you like coffee or
tea? Think of your answer and flip a coin. If the coin lands heads change
your answer otherwise leave it the same. Now write your answer down.
Try it out a few times. Do you see you end up with a totally random set
of decisions — tea, coffee, coffee, tea, tea, tea. If you don't record the coin
toss there is no way to determine your true answer.

Similarly, the message I encoded above now looks like a completely
random stream of 1s and 0s and the only person who can decode it is the
party with the other record of the coin tosses. Apply this to the message
and, as if by magic, the message reappears. Any other random sequence
will yield gibberish. It has to be the SAME random sequence I used in
the first place.

Mathematically, the proof involves working out that the probability
of getting the right answer by applying a random sequence is 1 in 2 and
the probability I could guess the answer is also 1 in 2? The same! So the
chance of decrypting the message knowing the encryption method is the
same as simply guessing the message and getting lucky. Therefore, the
message is perfectly encrypted.

Quantum Cryptography

It turns out there is one other perfect encryption method that involves
thinking about the nature of secrets. Normally we consider the primary
problem with sending a secret message is coding it so that it can’t be read

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015907
