Case 9:08-cv-80736-KAM Document 291-1 Entered on FLSD Docket 01/21/2015 Page 11 of
20

and wants. I told Epstein about Andy’s sexual interests in feet. Epstein thought it was very
funny. Epstein appeared to be collecting private information about Andy.

40. | When I got back from my trip, Epstein paid me more than he had paid me to be
with anyone else — approximately $15,000. That money was for what I had done and to keep my
mouth shut about “working” with the Prince.

41. The second time I had sex with Prince Andrew was in Epstein’s New York
mansion in spring 2001. I was 17 at time. Epstein called me down to his office. When I got
there, Epstein was there, along with Maxwell, Johanna Sjoberg, and Andy. I was very surprised
to see him again. Epstein and Maxwell were making lewd jokes about “Randy Andy”.

42. Thad the impression that Andy had come there to see Epstein and to have sex me
with. There was no other apparent purpose for Andy to be there.

43. I was told to go upstairs with Andy and to go to the room I thought of as the
“dungeon” (the massage room, but it is really scary looking). I had sex with Andy there. I was
only paid $400 from Epstein for servicing Andy that time.

44, The third time I had sex with Andy was in an orgy on Epstein’s private island in
the U.S. Virgin Islands. I was around 18 at the time. Epstein, Andy, approximately eight other
young girls, and I had sex together. The other girls all seemed and appeared to be under the age
of 18 and didn’t really speak English. Epstein laughed about the fact they couldn’t really
communicate, saying that they are the “easiest” girls to get along with. My assumption was that
Jean Luc Brunel got the girls from Eastern Europe (as he procured many young foreign girls for
Epstein). They were young and European looking and sounding.

45. Afterwards we all had dinner by the cabanas. The other girls were chatting away

among themselves, and Epstein and the Prince chatted together. I felt disgusted, and went

10

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010901
