KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP

John Roth, Esq.
June 19, 2008
Page 4

It thus is especially troubling that the USAO has not provided us with the transcript of
Ms. *s federal interview, nor the substance of the interviews with Vs. or Ms.
, hor any information generated by interviews with any of the approximately 40 alleged
witnesses that the prosecution claims it has identified. Because the information provided by
these women goes directly to the question of Mr. Epstein’s guilt or innocence, it is classic Brady
information. We understand that the U.S. Attorney might not want to disclose impeachment
information about their witnesses prior to a charge or during plea negotiations. But we firmly
believe that when the Government possesses information that goes directly to a target’s factual
guilt or innocence, the target should be informed about such heartland exculpatory evidence.

Most importantly, aside from whether the Department believes Brady obligates
disclosure to a target of a federal investigation prior to the target’s formal accusation, no such
limit should apply to a Department review. Accordingly, we request that you go beneath the face
of any summary provided to you by the USAO and instead review the actual witness transcripts
and FBI 302s, which are essential for you to be able to make a truly independent assessment of
the strength and wisdom of any federal prosecution.

After careful consideration of the record, and as much as it pains me to say this, I simply
do not believe federal prosecutors would have been involved at all in this matter if not for Mr.
Epstein’s personal wealth and publicly-reported ties to former President Bill Clinton. A simple
Internet search on Mr. Epstein reveals myriad articles and news stories about the former
President’s personal relationship with Mr. Epstein, including multi-page stories in New York
Magazine and Vanity Fair. Mr. Epstein, in fact, only came to the public’s attention a few years
ago when he and the former President traveled for a week to Africa (using Mr. Epstein’s
airplane)}—a trip that received a great deal of press coverage. I cannot imagine that the USAO
ever would have contemplated a prosecution in this case if Mr. Epstein lacked this type of
notoriety.

That belief has been reinforced by the significant prosecutorial impropriety and
misconduct throughout the course of this matter. While we describe the majority of these
irregularities in another submission, two instances are particularly troubling. First, the USAO
authorized the public disclosure of specific details of the open investigation to the New York
Times—including descriptions of the prosecution’s theory of the case and specific terms of a plea
negotiation between the parties. Second, AUSA Villafana attempted to enrich friends and close
acquaintances by bringing them business in connection with this matter. Specifically, she
attempted to appoint a close personal friend of her live-in boyfriend to serve as an attorney-
representative for the women involved in this case.

It also bears mentioning that actions taken by FAUSA Sloman present an appearance of
impropriety that gives us cause for concern. Mr. Sloman’s former law partner is currently
pursuing a handful of $50-million lawsuits against Mr. Epstein by some of the masseuses.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012133
