Economics needs to be viewed as a dynamic in its own right, not just a function of
political and social issues. Money is not enough. Structural and governance
reforms are just as critical. Connect structural reforms to communities. Create
context for public investment. Framework s for investing. Jordan is on the edge.
They are starting some reforms. Policy counts, not just money. Country and people
must own the effort. While we see Egypt and KSA (Saudi) as the big problems, if
they aren’t interested in reform, we should spend our energy and resources in
smaller countries who are ready and hope they provide role models when dynamics
of Egypt and KSA are more ripe.

Syria: Should the US intervene?
TJP summary. There was a remarkable consensus that the US should intervene in

Syria. Many on both sides of the aisle supported the Hadley formulation (see
below). Questions of how to intervene varied somewhat, but few said we should
not actively intervene in the Syrian situation. Under discussed were two critical
issues. First, WMD. Syria has huge stores of chemical and bio weapons and they
are very widely distributed. Having these fall into hands of terrorists could ruin our
day. Do we have the knowledge, strategy and will to secure these? Second, post
Assad Syria is going to be a mess. It will require a serious peace keeping force.
Who ts going to provide that force? Post script: inspite of the broad consensus that
the US must act, the private conversation was that we would not act. It is unclear to
me why this is the case, but several people (Dems and Repubs who had spoken in
favor of action) said they didn’t think it was in the cards.

Richard Falkenrath: The US has the power to depose a very bad guy — Assad.
Should we do that? Proposition: Don’t do it because:
. We have a strategy and its working. BS. It is a failed strategy.
. Is there a reasonable prospect of success if we decide to depose — yes.
. The costs are acceptable — yes
. Dono harm. That would be at risk if we decide to depose
. Legaility. Can be handled
6. Timing. Election season is problematic.
Richard’s conclusion 1s we should have a policy to depose Assad.

Mm BWN Re

Ann Marie Slaughter (ex Obama) . Depose but with military light. Intel and
tailored arms to opposition who hold territory in return for pledge of no revenge
killings. Multi pronged incrementalism. US 1s still missing one element. We have
no overt public relations program. Why aren’t we working a full fledged PR

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025803
