OUP CORRECTED PROOF - FINAL, 10/9/2014, SPi

xxxiv The Crooked Course

two-track approach: bilateral negotiations in Washington; and the formation of several
multilateral working groups to address specific issues such as water, refugees, the
economy, etc. It is worth noting that the PLO was not accepted at the negotiating
table. Instead the Palestinians were represented by a joint delegation of Jordanian
officials and prominent Palestinians, who allegedly were not associated with the PLO.
In stark contrast to the Oslo process, the Washington talks under the Madrid formula
were public and in the constant glare of the media. This resulted in the parties
continuously posturing to win the favor of the complex power structures that they
reported to, as well as of domestic public constituencies. However, Madrid broke the
taboo of direct bilateral talks between Arabs and Israelis. Madrid failed as a process, but
succeeded as a spectacular event for creating hope, and formed a springboard for the
subsequent secret Oslo talks.

As noted in the comments on Part I, Oslo and all subsequent agreements were
embraced by the three Israeli Prime Ministers before Ehud Barak took office in 1999.
As opposed to the gradualist approach of his predecessors, Barak took the path of
totalism, i.e. aiming at solving all remaining issues in one go. Pursuant to this approach,
as he put it: “nothing is agreed until everything is agreed”. Heroically, he wanted to
resolve simultaneously all matters with Lebanon, Syria, and the Palestinians, and put a
final end to all conflicts.

Shortly after his election, I was invited to meet him at his home in the outskirts of Tel
Aviv. He described his new approach metaphorically: “In order to resolve a problem,
you need to analyze what the problem is, and define your objective. The problem at
hand is that we have an ugly dog in front of us. The objective is to beautify the dog. In
order to do so, you need to analyze why it is ugly. And then you see that it is the tail that
makes the dog ugly. Through this analysis, our task becomes easy: by chopping off the
tail we will have a beautiful dog.” And then he added sarcastically: “But I will not chop
off the tail of the dog the way you Oslo people have been doing it, painfully slice by slice
like a salami. We need to chop it off all in one go.”

In this spirit, in the summer of 2000 President Clinton brought the parties to the
presidential estate at Camp David for marathon talks behind closed doors. The attempt
failed for many reasons. First of all, a few weeks of talks did not provide ample time to
address the thorniest issues (Oslo took six months of negotiation to address the least
difficult issues). Other reasons were internal Palestinian disagreements and difficult
interpersonal relations, in addition to a “take-it-or-leave it” approach by Israel.

Although the leaders left Camp David without diplomatic feathers in their cap,
President Clinton and his team now had a clear sense of what was needed to bridge
the gap between the two parties. In late December 2000, he presented what became
known as the Clinton Parameters. They were a comprehensive set of American ideas
on how to end the conflict. However, time was not on the side of peace. With his second
term coming to an end, Clinton was unable to persuade the parties to conclude an
agreement. In addition, Likud Party leader Ariel Sharon’s visit to the Temple Mount /
Haram al-Sharif in September 2000 signaled the second Palestinian uprising. This
reduced the room for maneuver for the Palestinian negotiators.

Following the election of George W. Bush as President of the United States, and
against the backdrop of the new Intifada, Palestinian and Israeli negotiators gathered in

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023166
