The Handler | 267

When I arrived at Kucherena’s office, I was with my translator
Zamir. (Kucherena did not speak English.) I arrived ten minutes
early, and a receptionist showed me into a well-lit square room
with an elegant table in the center. There was a sumptuous basket
of exotic fruits on the table and large portraits of racehorses on the
walls. Another door opened, and a tall, graceful woman came into the
room and introduced herself as Valentina. She was wearing a well-
fitting black dress, a striking jade necklace, and high heels. When
she asked whether we would like anything to drink, it seemed more
like the prelude to an elegant dinner party than an interview about
Snowden.

Valentina spoke very good English. She apologized for the delay
in responding to my requests, explaining that she received “thou-
sands of requests” for interviews and did not have time to answer
them. When I asked how many were answered, she shrugged and
said, “Not many.”

At that moment, Kucherena entered with a jaunty step, a cherubic
face, and untamed white hair. He was wearing gray slacks, a partially

© buttoned cashmere polo sweater, and a fully engaging smile. ©

As I had learned from his entry in Wikipedia, he was born in a
small village in the Soviet Socialist Republic of Moldavia in 1960
and had obtained his law degree from the All-Union Correspon-
dence Law Institute in 1991. He opened his own law firm in Mos-
cow in 1995. Kucherena’s well-known friendship with Putin had
evidently not hurt his law practice. His clients had included such
well-connected defendants as Viktor Yanukovych, the president of
Ukraine overthrown in 2014; Grigory Leps, a Russian singer black-
listed by the United States for allegedly acting as a money courier
for a Eurasian criminal organization; Valentine Kovalev, a former
Russian minister of justice charged with corruption; and Suleyman
Kerimoy, a civil servant from Dagestan who had amassed an esti-
mated fortune of $7.1 billion. Kerimov had recently been charged
for manipulating the price of potash in Belarus. Most of these clients
were reputed to be part of Putin’s inner circle.

To break the ice, I asked Kucherena about Oliver Stone. I knew
he had a small role in Stone’s forthcoming movie, in which he plays
Snowden’s lawyer in Moscow.

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.indd 267 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019755
