between lower-level physical or
homeostatic challenges and higher-level
psychological and social stressors. Basic
homeostatic reflexes, reflexes that keep
in balance various critical bodily
processes such as blood pressure, body
temperature, and blood sugar, are largely
hard-wired and organized at relatively
low levels of the nervous system, such as
the brainstem and spinal cord. An
example comes from autonomic nervous
system regulation of cardiovascular
function. The sympathetic division of the
autonomic nervous system is an
activational, energy mobilization system
that comes into play in the face of
adaptive challenges. Sympathetic
activation increases heart rate and results
in peripheral vasoconstriction, both of
which tend to increase blood pressure. In
contrast, the parasympathetic division is
an energy-conserving, deactivational
brake that generally opposes the
sympathetic system, yielding decreases
in heart rate and blood pressure. The
baroreceptor heart rate reflex is a
homeostatic reflex that functions to
maintain blood pressure within
homeostatic limits. Unique pressure
sensitive receptors in the heart and large
arteries detect changes in blood pressure,
and a decrease in blood pressure triggers
the baroreceptor heart rate reflex,
increasing sympathetic activity and
reciprocally decreasing parasympathetic
tone. Both effects serve to increase heart
rate (and thus cardiac output) and
constrict arteries throughout the body,
thereby restoring the pressure
perturbation. In basic reflexes, the two
autonomic branches are generally
regulated in this reciprocal fashion, and
thus synergistically amplify the effects
of the other. This is a useful mechanism
to adjust to severe adaptive challenges

Page |53

such as a decrease in blood pressure and
compromised circulation.

Although this reciprocal mode of
regulation of the autonomic branches has
considerable utility, and is characteristic
of basic reflex organizations, it may not
always be optimal. The autonomic
nervous system provides the basic
support for action and adjustment, and
although it figures prominently in
survival related functions, it also
provides the basic visceral support for
emotional and cognitive operations as
well. It has long been recognized that
cognitively demanding tasks elicit
greater autonomic activation than is
needed to meet the metabolic demands
of the tasks. Moreover, ascending neural
signals to the brain from visceral organs
such as the heart and blood vessels serve
to modulate and regulate cognitive
activities (5). The notable early
psychologist, William James, proposed
that emotion is the experience of
somatovisceral sensory feedback. James
suggested that we do not run from the
bear because we are afraid, but rather we
are afraid because we run from the bear
(6). Although the strong form of this
theory has not been supported, it remains
the case that ascending visceral signals
can modulate learning, attention, and
cortical/cognitive processing (5). The
autonomic nervous system is not only
for lower level reflexive adjustments.
Indeed, it is increasingly recognized that
there is a highly complex, even intricate,
interaction between the autonomic
nervous system and higher level brain
structures (e.g., frontal cortex) involved
in human behavior. Importantly, these
circuits and their interactions with the
autonomic nervous system are highly
flexible and are not constrained by the
simple organization rules that govern
basal functions such as homeostasis and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021299
