106 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

tacted the consulate of Iceland while he was in Hong Kong. “We had
heard nothing from Snowden,” an Iceland government official told
Vanity Fatr.

Snowden also did not contact the government of Ecuador while
in Hong Kong. In mid-June, while Harrison was laying down false
tracks for Snowden in Hong Kong, Assange in London asked Fidel
Narvaez, who was a friend of his and the legal attaché in the Lon-
don embassy of Ecuador, to issue a document that Snowden could
use. But this document was not delivered to Snowden in Hong Kong
(and it was later invalidated by Ecuador). There are no direct flights
to Ecuador from Hong Kong. If Snowden had really planned to go to
Ecuador without stopping in a country allied with the United States,
he would have had to fly to Cuba. He would need a Cuban travel
document to do that, which he could have obtained from the Cuban
consulate anytime during his month in Hong Kong. But he did not
obtain it. Nor did he acquire a visa to go to any other country in
Latin America or elsewhere while in Hong Kong. So where was he
headed?

© Whatever foreign government with which Snowden was deal- ©
ing earlier presumably did not have an extradition treaty with the
United States. Almost all other countries that did not have active
extradition treaties with the United States could not be directly
reached by air. With three notable exceptions, the flights to most of
these countries had stopovers in a country that was an ally of the
United States, where officials could seize Snowden. The three excep-
tions were China, North Korea (via China), and Russia.

The only one of these three countries that Snowden is known
to have had contact with directly during his thirty-three-day stay
in Hong Kong was Russia. The Russian president, Vladimir Putin,
revealed these contacts in a televised press briefing in September
2013. Putin did not provide the date of these contacts, but he pro-
vided an intriguing clue. Snowden was identified to him, according
to Putin, not by name but merely as an “agent of special services.”
If his name was not given to Putin, it might have been because
Snowden’s first meeting with the Russians had taken place before
Snowden became a household name on June 9, 2013.

For his part, Snowden was evasive when discussing his con-

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 106 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019594
