Earth, only 2 million of which have been
identified thus far. Most of the species
identified are either born with the
capacity to find sustenance and avoid
predation sufficiently well that some
survive long enough to reproduce, or
they are born in such large numbers that
some survive long enough to reproduce.
It is the ability of such organisms to
reproduce that determines what genes
constitute the gene pool for the future
generations of that species. These genes
in turn, shape the structure and function
of the organisms that constitute a
species. This reasoning led George
Williams (2) to suggest a half century
ago that traits (i1.e., behavioral
tendencies) which benefit the group at
the expense of the individual would
evolve only if the process of group-
selection was great enough to overcome
selection within groups. He further
suggested that group selection is nearly
always weak, so that group-related
adaptations do not exist (3). Richard
Dawkins (/) popularized the notion that
traits which evolve are adaptive at the
gene level through his use of the
metaphor of the selfish gene. Genes
serve their own selfish interests in the
sense that whatever the contributions
made by a gene, or set of genes, to an
organism’s structure and function would
be passed on to the next generation if
and only if the gene made its way to the
gene pool. Survival of the fittest now
had a biological basis.

United We Stand, Divided We Fall

2

Charles Darwin did not know
that genes were the mechanism through
which structures and behaviors evolved,
but an important component of his
original theory was the notion of
survival of the fittest. Darwin was also
puzzled by the observation that many
individual organisms made themselves

Page |20

less fit so that the group might survive.
Subsequent generations of evolutionary
biologists realized that even though
genes might act as if selfish, the vehicle
responsible for the transport of these
genes to the gene pool occasionally
extended beyond the individual or parent
to kin and even to unrelated members of
groups. More specifically, in some cases
the superorganismal structures formed
by social organisms represent naturally
selected levels of organization above
individual organisms (4).

Consider the example of the
Emperor penguin (Aptenodytes forsteri).
Emperor penguins typically reside near
their food source of squid, shoaling fish,
and small crustaceans but in early winter
they gather into breeding colonies
(rookeries) up to 60 miles inland in April
and May during the Antarctic winter.
They search for their mate from the
previous year, and go through a
courtship ritual before mating. The
female lays only one egg in May or
June, which coincides with the start of
the bitter Antarctica winter. The
Emperor penguins are thought to have
developed this unusual winter breeding
behavior to permit the chick to grow to
independence the following summer,
when food is plentiful. Ensuring the
chick survives that long is a collective
enterprise, with the vehicle responsible
for the chick surviving long enough such
that it too can reproduce not being solely
the mother or the father but also the
huddle.

The birthing of the egg leaves the
mother depleted, so she must return to
the seaside to feed while the father
assumes responsibility for the incubation
of the egg during the winter. An egg
from an Emperor penguin will quickly
freeze if left exposed to harsh winter
conditions of the Antarctica, so the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021266
