Case 1:19-cv-03377 Document 1-12 Filed 04/16/19 Page 3 of 4

During the time that I worked for Epstein, he arranged for me to work on a special
art project at the Ohio mansion of Leslie Wexner. This was in approximately the
summer of 1996. I went to Ohio and stayed at the property to work on the art
projects. I was also babysitting my two younger brother’s and they were staying
with me at Wexner’s mansion.

In addition to my two younger brothers, I also had a younger sister who was fifteen
(15) years old. Maxwell and Epstein took an interest in my younger sister. Epstein
took us to a movie in New York and during the movie he held my younger sister’s
hand and was rubbing her in a sexual manner without my knowledge. He then
contacted my mother and said he wanted to help put my younger sister through a
special school program in Thailand. During the summer of 1996, Epstein and
Maxwell flew my younger sister to their ranch in New Mexico. She was only
fifteen (15) at the time and they directed her take off all of her clothes and get on a
massage table. Maxwell and Epstein then touched her inappropriately on the
massage table. It was not until later in the summer when I called my sister in
Thailand where she was studying that I learned what had happened to her at
Epstein’s New Mexico ranch.

During that same summer of 1996 when I was working on my art project at
Wexner’s mansion, Ghislaine Maxwell and Jeffrey Epstein came to Wexner’s
mansion. They asked me to come into a bedroom with them and then proceeded to
sexually assault me against my will. I fled from the room and called the sheriff's
office but did not get any response. The Wexner’s security staff refused to let me
leave the property. I pleaded with them and my father drover up from Kentucky to
Ohio to help me. I was held against my will for approximately twelve (12) hours
until I was ultimately allowed to leave with my father. Upon my return to New
York, I went to the New York Sixth Precinct police department for help and they
counseled me to contact the FBI to make a report about the assault in Ohio. I called
the FBI and made the report but to my knowledge, the FBI did not take any action
against Epstein or Maxwell. To my knowledge I was the first person to report
Maxwell and Epstein to the FBI. It took a significant amount of bravery for me to
make that call because I knew how incredibly powerful and influential both Epstein
and Maxwell were particularly in the art community.

After the sexual assault, Maxwell and Epstein called me multiple times threatening
me. Maxwell and Epstein contacted my art clients and individuals in the art
community in an effort to ruin my art career. Maxwell and Epstein were successful
and J was shut out of all art related opportunities. Maxwell and Epstein worked in
concert to make sure that my career and my life was ruined. I was terrified of
Maxwell and Epstein and I moved a number of times to try to hide from them.

I have struggled throughout my life as a direct result of Epstein and Maxwell’s
actions against me and my hope is that they will be held accountable for their
crimes. While I am still afraid, I am coming forward because I think it is so
important to do so.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018028
