Patty Clarkson, Irwin Winkler and Giorgio Armani's niece Roberta Armani with Wanda McDaniels
debated best director: Marty or Michel?

“Nobbs” delivered me to WME's Party at kahuna Ari Emanuel's Brentwood estate, where NFL
quarterback and new client Tim Tebow was the toast of the party, especially to Taylor Swift who made
$35.7 million this year. Michael Douglas gave me a Kiss... birds Robert
Pattinson and Kristen Stewart made glued to each other's hips. They mingled with
co-star Taylor Lautner, Miley Cyrus and her Hunger Games beau Liam Hemsworth. Meanwhile
Charlize Theron, Jack Black, Rooney Mara, Ben Stiller, Barry Sonnenfeld and Larry David talked business
with moguls Les Moonves and Viacom's Philippe Dauman.

Next was UTA Chairman Jim Berkus' soiree that police almost shut down because the DJ got carried
away impressing Harrison Ford, Channing Tatum, Jerry Bruckheimer, Tom Freston, Disney's Rich Ross,
SNL's Lorne Michaels and Oscar show producer Brian Grazer.

Sunset Tower Hotel owner Jeff Klein and producer John Goldwyn hosted a secretive dinner for Anna and
Graydon Carter at their Hollywood Hills home with Tom Ford, Mitch Glazer, Fran Lebowitz, Vito
Schnabel, Denise Hale, Lisa and Eric Eisner and VF's Punch Hutton, who is Tim Hutton's sister.

Last stop was CAA Byran Lourd's Friday Night Party. “Nobbs” was instructed to drop me off at a
neighborhood school where a luxury van transported guests to the stone and glass Bel-Air estate
situated on a narrow street. | knew that guests Colin Firth, Penelope Cruz, Sofia Vergara, Salma Hayek,
Sandra Bullock, and Glee's Matthew Morrison did not arrive by bus. Once inside the playing field leveled
out and pound for pound there was more famous flesh per square inch than at the Oscars themselves.

| huddled with Meryl on the couch and we talked about her race. She thought Viola. | thought Meryl. She
didn't know about Harvey’s last minute 29 year shout out.

| hugged Bette Midler, flirted with Jim Sturgess and Bennett Miller. _ Universal's Donna Langley, who

is overseeing Tom Hooper's production Les Miserable mentioned Hugh Jackman's impeccable
manners should insure best behavior from Russell Crowe.

| introduced HBO’s Game Change director Jay Roach who is an authority on Hitler, to George Clooney
who is writing a thriller about the Nazis stealing art. Clooney whispered, “The Frenchman is winning.”

| thanked Bryan Lourd, Kevin Huvane and Richard Lovett, got on the bus and prayed that | get invited
back.

Saturday, February 25

| dragged my tired ass to the Academy, as foreign films aficionado Mark Johnson was conducting a
symposium on the nominated films, which included Sony Classic’s “In Darkness” from Poland,
Footnote from Israel and A Separation from Iran. Israeli and Iranian governments from the other
side of the world monitored their directors as the Sony boys kept the peace.

Michael and Tom Bernard invited me to the Independent Spirit Awards at the Santa Monica Pier.

Michael hosted his Take Shelter nominees Jessica Chastain, Michael Shannon and director Jeff Nichols.
Tom held court atthe next table with the entire Iranian cast of A Separation, which won. Tom

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013446
