e Partnered with: American Medical Assoc. Am Bar Assoc, Aol, etc
e $67 million in venture capital to date.
e CEO is Michael Fertik

CEO and Founder

Michael Fertik founded Reputation.com in 2006

with the belief that people have the right to control
and protect their online reputation and privacy. In
addition to his work with Reputation.com, Michael
holds a position on the advisory board of The Internet
Keepsafe Coalition (iKeepSafe), a nonprofit that
works to protect the health and safety of youth online.
Michael is regarded as one of the earliest pioneers of
online reputation management and a leading expert
on issues of online privacy. He co-authored the book
Wild West 2.0 and lectures internationally, appearing
before professional and academic audiences. Michael
also advises school administrators and parent groups.
Prior to founding Reputation.com, Michael clerked for
Chief Judge Danny J. Boggs of the Sixth Circuit Court
of Appeals of the United States. He is a graduate of
Harvard College and Harvard Law School, speaks
several languages, and enjoys sailing, reading, and
running.

TIME FRAME & FEES

Their “Picasso” Tech services described in step 2, will take approx. 3 months to eliminate bad press from the
1t and 24 page. The whole process will take about a year to be solidified. Fees will be approx. $10k -$15k
per month but depends on each case and costs can be kept down by providing content and selecting only
truly necessary services.

WIKIPEDIA

This is a tough nut to crack. And | need to do more research on this. Wiki comes up first on the
Google list due to its powerful domain and contains totally lopsided and damning content on you.

But we'll crack it. On the surface, Wiki is controlled by a morass of copyediting geeks who have
nothing better to do than to discuss reference tags etc. It is also ‘the people’s’ encyclopedia,
dictated by the tyranny of the majority—so no objectivity at all.

Current Strategy— 1. The Reputation group have a copyright team dedicated to balancing the
content on Wikipedia and gradually sectioning the bad stuff down to sub categories in the profile.
They don’t seem to be able to eliminate the bad though. 2. So, | think it’s worth seeing how people
like Prince Andrew managed to create an absolutely stellar profile—or Bill Clinton for that matter.
No mention of his impeachment or lying to the Grand Jury. It barely touches on Lewinsky etc. 3.
There are also protected pages on Wiki but | need more time and research.

WEBSITE

You need to update your website immediately by adding the bio on you from The Edge if you can
and adding a longer summary of science and scientists that you are/have worked with.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025234
