consumption of orange juice and its healing properties. He believed that exposure to the air diluted the
juice’s potency, so he demanded that fresh oranges be sliced and juiced in front of him.

2. When Hughes was partaking of the nightlife in Las Vegas, his aides were charged with approaching
any girls he took a liking to. If a girl was invited to join the Hughes table and agreed, an aide would
pull out a waiver and agreement for her to sign.

3. Hughes had a barber on call 24/7 but had his hair and nails trimmed about once a year.

4. In his hotel-bound years, Hughes was rumored to have instructed assistants to place a single
cheeseburger in a specific tree outside his penthouse room at a 4:00 P.M. each day, whether he was
there or not.

Such a world of possibilities! Just as the Model-T brought transportation to the masses, virtual
assistants bring eccentric billionaire behavior within reach of each man, woman, and child. Now, that’s
progress.

y y ithout further ado, let me pass the mic. Note that YMII performs both personal and business tasks,

whereas Brickwork focuses solely on business projects. Let’s start with the important but dull stuff and
move quickly from the sublime to the ridiculous. To give a true taste of what to expect, I have not
corrected non-native-sounding English.

Venky: Don’t limit yourself. Just ask us if something is possible. We’ve arranged parties, organized
caterers, researched summer courses, cleaned up accounting books, created 3D drafts based on blueprints.
Just ask us. We could find the closest kid-friendly restaurant to your house for your son’s birthday,
finding out costs and organizing the birthday party. This frees up your time to work or hang out with
your son.

What can we not do? We can’t do anything that would require our physical presence. But you would
be surprised as to how small a set of tasks that is in this day and age.

Here are the most common tasks we handle:

» scheduling interviews and meetings » web-research » following up on appointments, errands, and
tasks m online purchases » creation of legal documents m website maintenance (web design, publishing,
uploading files) that doesn’t require a professional designer » monitoring, editing, and publishing
comments for online discussions m posting job vacancies on the web m document creation »
proofreading and editing documents for spelling and formatting » online research for updating blogs =
updating the database for Customer Relationship Management Software m managing recruitment

processes m updating invoices and receiving payments m voicemail transcription

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013877
