Economics. They made Saddam Hussein one of the 10 wealthiest people
in the world. Besides, sanctions create sanctions-busting which, like drugs,
is a global criminal industry born entirely of the idiocy of western
diplomacy.

A year ago the Foreign Office defended yet another round of sanctions
against Tehran on the grounds they would hasten Iran's economic

collapse and deepen rifts within the regime, in the hope that saner voices
will deem the price of pursuing nuclear weapons too high. Economies
don't collapse, any more than poverty changes governments. Even Greece,
now the most sanctioned nation in Europe, has not collapsed. Places just
get poorer. As for saner voices, they go into exile, hiding or prison.
That's where sanctions send them.

Iran is a proud nation of 80 million mostly Muslim people, one of many
Asian and African states struggling between theocracy and democracy,
tradition and modernity. These are agonising struggles among and within
peoples, to which the west has contributed nothing but hostility and
belligerence. Under the cloak of counter-terror, it has been as crass as it
was during the Crusades. Of course no one wants to see nuclear weapons
spread. Russia tried to stop China getting them. China tried to stop North
Korea. The west tried to stop India and Pakistan, while hypocritically
tolerating Israel and the replenished arsenals of France and Britain. No
pressure made the slightest difference to anyone.

If Iran really wants a nuclear weapon, it will get one — the more so when it
is threatened with dire retribution if it does. That is how such states react
to pressure. Ever since the dodgy election of 2009, threats and sanctions
have not weakened the regime's determination to proceed, but rather
weakened opposition to it. If ever there was a country unlikely to respond
to diplomatic bullying, it is Iran. If ever there was a country that might
respond to constructive engagement, to commercial, governmental and
cultural intercourse, it is also Iran. Why the west should want to make it
another North Korea passes comprehension.

Article 3.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018202
