26

from assisting Hamas, the president’s constitutional powers to
conduct foreign affairs might exempt officials carrying out the
government’s international policy from criminal prosecution. The
existing laws and regulations, however, make federal officials just as
liable for providing aid to FTOs as any private citizen, and any
contrary argument would rest, at best, on untested grounds.
Additionally, it could be argued that because Hamas does not control
the PA outright, aid to the PA is not the same as aid to Hamas. This
may seem persuasive in some circumstances; for instance, if Hamas
held only a small minority of the PA’s parliamentary seats. But that is
hardly the case with regard to the current reconciliation agreement,
which places equal power in the hands of Fatah and Hamas to form
an interim government and appoint various ministers through
consensus. Moreover, according to OFAC’s regulations, Hamas
needs only an interest in PA transactions, rather than full control of
the PA itself, to trigger sanctions against funding the PA. In fact,
following Hamas’ election success in 2006, OFAC determined that
Hamas had “a property interest” in PA business; this may have some
bearing on funding the new unity government. Much like the OFAC
regulations, the U.S. criminal code does not clearly specify when an
FTO’s interest in an organization becomes so great that it is unlawful
to provide that organization with “material support.” Moreover, the
serious penalties associated with violating these criminal laws
demand caution when considering whether to aid an organization in
which an FTO such as Hamas plays a significant role.

Another possible method for the United States to continue funding
the PA is an exception in the criminal code for persons who provide
“personnel,” “training,” or “expert advice or assistance” to an FTO
with approval of the secretary of state and the attorney general. This
exception could allow the United States to advise PA security and
police forces, but it would not permit direct financial aid. Similarly,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030181
