crisis, they were declared and (made) clear-cut. There was no need to unleash predictions in this respect,” His
Highness said.
Al Hayat Newspaper - Shafiq Al Asadi

YYour Highness, do you feel that Dubai is threatened as a result of the current crisis?

We did not at any time feel that the financial crisis is a threat. The worst is over and behind us. Since the
eruption of the crisis we did not hear of any state-owned bank or company announcing bankruptcy. None of the
economy sectors was snapped. We are currently implementing plans and programs of action to benefit from the
lessons of the crisis and ensure the recovery of the negative effects.

Al Hayat Newspaper - Shafiq Al Asadi

The recent murders that occurred in Dubai seriously raised the issue of security despite
the speed of discovery of the perpetrators of these crimes. How would you respond to the
statements that the prevention of the assassination should come first?

Of course, prevention is better than cure. To prevent killing is a very valuable act. Often, people hear about the
cure procedures, but they do not hear about the actions of prevention. Murders that took place in Dubai in
recent months, were fewer than half of one hand’s fingers -- and this is not to minimize the seriousness but just
to confirm that it is an exception and the rule is that the UAE, including Dubai, is one of the most secure and
stable countries, and this would not happen without having our authorities taking preventive measures of
utmost importance. In any case, the crime rate in the UAE, including Dubai, is one of the lowest in the world,
and we are working to remain so, and the murder of two known figures will not change the reality.

Al Hayat Newspaper - Shafiq Al Asadi

With the brunt of the global financial crisis on Dubai, we noticed the continuation of most
of the art, culture, media, sports, and cultural activities, in addition to the enormous
financial awards being bestowed by various organizations for business efficiency, among
other things. How do you explain this?

These activities were scheduled prior to the crisis, and some of them are annual events such as the Dubai World
Cup, the Arab Media Forum and Arab Journalism Award. Some new events were launched, such as the World
Poetry Festival -- but I don’t know why you are wondering about the continuation of those activities. In fact, it
would be a strange thing to cancel them. With regards to the prizes, they remain as were previously announced.
Do you suggest in your question that these awards have become a burden to Dubai? If so, I promise we are ina
good shape. All our projects under implementation have not ceased, and we are paying our loans and debts on
time, and all suppliers and contractors have begun to receive their entitlements.

Al Hayat Newspaper - Shafiq Al Asadi

Your Highness, the media is focusing currently on the large layoffs from the companies
working under the umbrella of Dubai Holding. What is the truth regarding this matter,
especially that the issue is going to reach its peak in the coming months?

The collapse of the global debt markets has pushed all the big companies worldwide to review their plans, expe
nses and strategies and urged them to restructure their managements including the human resources. “Dubai
Holding” is not an exception at all. All its companies work on a commercial basis, and it is normal to lay off the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024935
