to sleep. I can either take care of that in the bathroom, or I can do it here. If I do it here,
then you can help me along, or not. I'd especially appreciate it if you could talk dirty
while I jerk off, but it's your decision.”

Talk about low pressure! Yeah, I learned a lot from that guy.

KK ok

2) Scripts and Lists. I had one brief relationship last year with a gentleman who is really,
really awesome -- but we have very different approaches to S&M. We had a hard time
communicating about it... honestly, if he hadn't been such an awesome guy, I would
probably have given up on the relationship after a couple nights together. We were great
at having extensive theoretical conversations about sexuality, but when it came down to
actually having sex with each other, things got puzzling. We had difficulty predicting,
understanding, and initiating with each other.

I'm not sure what made it so hard. I think, mostly, we just brought really different
assumptions to the table. I tend to take an improvisational approach to my encounters,
whereas he tends to take a scripted approach. He's into doing stuff like rearranging the
furniture, taking on specific roles (e.g. teacher and student), using costumes and props,
and knowing exactly what will be said beforehand.

Me, I like going free-form. I talk to my partner about hard limits (things we absolutely
don't want to do); I talk to him about things we really like; and we set a safeword. I'm
usually okay with diving in from there. If he wants a more structured conversation, I'm
glad to have one (and sometimes, especially when I'm dominant, I'll ask for more
conversation myself). But generally, I like seeing how things go based on a very loose set
of guidelines, and making minor adjustments during the encounter, then evaluating the
situation afterwards.

One of the reasons I like doing this is that unexpected things happen. On the flip side,
there's also more room for experiences that aren't very exciting. I think I'm more likely to
have disjointed or confusing encounters than a lot of other BDSMers I know, although
maybe I'm just falling prey to the bias of assuming other people are doing better than I
am. And Scripty Guy in particular really doesn't like disjoint and confusion -- he likes
knowing what's going to happen.

Late in the relationship, I suggested that we try going through a checklist. When people
use these checklists, a lot of the time they just write their rating for each act, and give
them to each other to read. What we did instead was go through the checklist together
and discuss what we found hot, what was not, and whatever else came to mind.

This worked amazingly well -- it totally bridged our theoretical gap and it was a turn-on
in itself! (Seriously, by the time we were done going through the whole list, I could not
wait to have sex with that guy.) The conversation also helped me figure out the scripted
vs. un-scripted difference between us.

We stopped seeing each other for unrelated reasons soon afterwards, and they were good
reasons, but it seemed like a shame; I felt like we'd only just started figuring things out.
I'm not sure how well our S&M styles would have ultimately meshed, but I was curious

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018477
