On April 16, 2007, Cho dressed up in army fatigues. He left his dormitory and killed 32 people
and wounded 25 others with a semi-automatic Glock 19 pistol filled with hollow-point bullets, designed
to cause more tissue damage than traditional bullets. Cho then shot himself in the temple, ending his life
and the Virginia Tech massacre.

Cho’s case provides a horrifying example of how fantasies of violence can lead to real life
enactments and a trail of blood. It also provides a counter-example of the catharsis view: Cho’s fantasies
about violent revenge did not make him feel better. It made him feel worse and more violent — a pattern
supported by dozens of studies.

Normally raised children as young as seven years old are more likely to act aggressively toward
their peers if they are self-absorbed in a world of aggressive fantasy, and this 1s especially the case for
children who witnessed violence or were subjected to it. Adult men and women are more likely to crave
violence after reading an argument in favor of the cathartic magic of violent fantasies than after reading a
manifesto against catharsis. Men who engage in aggressive sexual fantasies are more likely to engage in
aggression, but only if they are narcissists. Men who engage in deviant sexual fantasies are more likely to
enact these fantasies, but only if they exhibit signs of psychopathy. Psychopathy and narcissism are like
Siamese twins, inseparable. What these studies show is that those who are self-absorbed and play with
violent or sexual fantasies, are most likely to take these imaginary worlds onto the real world stage.

Further evidence of the connection between violent fantasies and violent actions comes from
studies by the German psychologist Thomas Elbert who studied child soldiers brainwashed into joining
the ranks of the Lord’s Resistance Army, Northern Uganda’s rebel group. Since its inception in 1987, the
LRA has recruited 25-65,000 children, starting with boys and girls as young as 10-12 years old. In
detailed interviews and analyses of now retired child soldiers, Elbert discovered that those who had more
experience with killing developed stronger, appetite-driven fantasies of killing, a hunger that had to be
fulfilled by real killing. As one ex-child soldier noted “The more we killed, the more we acquired a taste
for it. If you are allowed to act out this lust it will never let you go again. You could see the lust in our
greed popping eyes. [...| It was an unprecedented pleasure for everyone.” Not only was fantasy converted
into killing, but the more they killed, the less they experienced any trauma in later life. Unlike the droves
of veterans who have been returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, and suffer from post-traumatic stress
disorder or PTSD, these child soldiers developed an immunity. Many of the veterans from Iraq and
Afghanistan had no interest in killing, and deemed the war unnecessary. In contrast, these child soldiers
were brain washed into believing that killing was necessary, and a sign of importance. Killing that is
justified is rewarding, whether the justification is real or the product of self-deception. When self-

deception joins the fray — as I further develop in chapter 3 — killing is not only rewarding but virtuous.

Hauser Chapter 2. Runaway desire 77

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012823
