Code Enforcement Board Meeting Minutes 04/17/08

recommending foreclosure to the Town Council. Captain Blouin advised he also needed
to speak to Mr. Randolph to get a prudent cutoff for what cases would be brought for
foreclosure in terms of dollar amount.

Mr. Ballentine said he was intrigued by the leaf blower case and asked Captain Blouin
how it was monitored in the Town. Captain Blouin said in November of last year, the
Police Department had queried the most common types of complaints they were receiving
and most were about construction or landscape noise. It was decided to focus most of his
resources, which were generally small, outside of the police officers, whose main focus is
keeping the community safe, not code violations. The department started with an
educational campaign for the landscape industry, consisting of brochures outlining all of
the ordinances which applied to them and voluntary testing of their equipment. He said
the last time he had checked, 89 warnings had been written but he did not recall how many
violations. Most of the violations would not come before the Code Board because the
violator has the option of paying a fine or if they want to contest it, to come before the
Code Board. Some people

have just elected to pay the fine. All of the major landscapers are going to be contacted
again and two more testing dates have been set up. The code enforcement officers have
been told this is a priority because of the complaints from the citizens. Captain Blouin
said that even if everyone was in compliance with the ordinance, it was still going to be a
nuisance to some citizens because leaf blowers are noisy.

Ms. Greenberg asked Mr. Randolph if it could be discussed if someone had a prior history
of violations. Mr. Randolph said the case before them should be considered on the merits,
not on the prior history. He said it could become relevant in considering the amount of a
fine.

There was discussion about the Susan Gibson and the Susan Lee Trust and the
outstanding fines on those cases.

X. Adjournment:

The meeting was adjourned without benefit of a motion.

14

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016615
