behavioral inhibition and anxiety, behavioral flexibility, narcissism, deviant motor
activity levels, novelty seeking, harm avoidance and reward dependence. These
studies were conducted by R.R. Crowe, J.F. Rosenbaum, A. Methany, and J.L
Robinson and indicated familial congruity of these characteristics among first and
second degree relatives in the range of 40-50%. This level of heritability in
genetically unrelated family members was found to be less than 20%.

Low entropy fixations of personality can also evolve developmentally.
Experiments in young animals have shown that stress-induced high levels of
adrenal hormones exaggerate the normal developmental process of trimming back
unused neural connections, called pruning, the normally complexly over-grown
sprouting pathways. The pruning actions of the pituitary-adrenal stress hormones
come to dominate sprouting actions of neural growth factors and their protection of
neuronal axonal branching and connections during development. The research
program of Bruce McEwan of Rockefeller University and others document nerve cell
loss resulting from the neurohormonal concomitants of stress. This reduction in
neuronal connectivity and neuronal cell content has been conjectured to contribute
to the pathological simplification of neuronal projections and neural network
complexity, reducing information processing capabilities. The still intact machinery
underlying the global patterns of neurological activity, such as those that underlie
personality styles, is arranged around these pruned, unoccupiable holes of lost
brain possibility. If this range of potential behavior is extremely reduced, the
behavioral syndrome is often called a personality disorder. Those that have one are
the predictable Johnny one notes of response to perturbation: thrash out, lie without
reason, get drunk, binge on promiscuity, steal unneeded things from department
stores, or withdraw into interpersonal isolation.

A more abstract and quantifiable way of representing the pathological
simplification-induced emergence of low entropy, stereotypical personality style is
inscribed on the head stone of the post-suicidal grave of Ludwig Boltzmann. This
father of modern statistical physics expressed the idea in the form of a
transformation: the (maximal) entropy, S, of a system is the logarithm of the

number,Q, of its available ways of being, (i.e., S = log ). That is, one way a

30

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013530
