see threats everywhere and overreact in ways that both undermine our own principles and
unnecessarily damage the US-China relationship.

The sections that follow lodge recommendations under three broad headings. The first

two, promoting “transparency” and “integrity,” are hardly controversial in the face of the
existing challenge, and they elicited little debate. Sunshine is the best disinfectant against
any manipulation of American entities by outside actors and we should shine as much light
as possible on Chinese influence seeking over organizations and individuals if it is covert,
coercive, or corrupting. We should also shore up the vitality of our institutions and our own
solidarity against Chinese divide-and-conquer tactics. Defending the integrity of American
democratic institutions requires standing up for our principles of openness and freedom,
more closely coordinating responses within institutional sectors, and also better informing
both governmental and nongovernmental actors about the potentially harmful influence
activities of China and other foreign actors.

It was in the third category, promoting “reciprocity,” where the Working Group confronted
the most difficult choices. In a wide range of fields, the Chinese government severely
restricts American platforms and access while Chinese counterparts are given free rein in
our society. Can this playing field be leveled and greater reciprocity be attained without
lowering our own standards of openness and fairness? Since complaints and demarches by
the US government and private institutions have not produced adequate results, is it possible
to get Chinese attention by imposing reciprocal restrictions that do not undermine our own
principles of openness?

The Working Group, not always in unanimity, settled on a selective approach. We believe
that in certain areas the only practical leverage resides in tit-for-tat retaliation. This
would not be an end in itself, but a means to compel a greater reciprocity. The Chinese
government respects firmness, fairness summons it, and American opinion compels it.

Each section of this report offers its own recommendations for responding to China’s
influence seeking activities in ways that will enhance the transparency of relationships,
defend the integrity of American democratic institutions, and grant American individuals
and institutions greater access in China that equates with the degree of access afforded
Chinese counterparts in the United States.

Our recommendations urge responses to China’s challenge that will promote greater
transparency, integrity, and reciprocity. We believe that a new emphasis on such
“constructive vigilance” is the best way to begin to protect our democratic traditions,
institutions, and nation, and to create a fairer and more reciprocal relationship that will be
the best guarantor of healthier ties between the United States and China.

Introduction

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020465
