44 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

these simple building blocks the computer allows us to play computer
games or process the words of this book as I write. Importantly, all these
operations are deterministic; given a set of inputs the computer will
always generate the same outputs and that means a computer has no free
will.

“Ah,” I hear you say, “but my computer plays games with me and is
not predictable, otherwise I would always beat it” You are right, but the
computer has a clever trick to fake non-deterministic behavior: it uses
you!

Computers on their own cannot generate random numbers. All
a computer can do is generate a pseudo-random number and it does
this by working its way through a very long calculation. It could, for
example, calculate the first thousand digits of 1 (pi), and then start using
the subsequent digits as random numbers. The digits look jumbled up
but we know they follow an entirely predictable pattern. The computer
appears to behave randomly because when I press the button to kill
an alien the computer picks the number it had counted up to at that
moment, say the 55,678 digit of 1, and uses that. It is I, the human, who
unconsciously picks the precise moment in time and therefore provides
the random element. My choice is governed by all sorts of extraneous
quantum influences: Did I have coffee this morning? Was it a big mug
or a small cup? How hot was it? All these things will be important as
they determine the amount of caffeine absorbed across the brain blood
barrier and the exact timing of my actions.

Humans are not good at consciously generating random numbers.
We tend to choose the same numbers too often. If I ask you to pick a
number between one and ten, you are likely to choose three or seven.
This effect is called social stereotyping; magicians often use it when they
pretend to read your mind. The problem arises because we tend to over
think the problem. I asked you to pick a random number between one
and ten. You won't pick one or ten. Five is too obviously the mid-point.
Even numbers don’t feel random. Nine is too large. That just leaves three
and seven. So the mind reading magician has you! Humans can unlearn
this social programming and become quite good random number
generators but normally we tend to conform.

There is a way two humans can generate a truly random number
without training. Find a friend for this experiment. One of you should
pick any number between one and ten and start counting under your
breath, when you get to ten just go back to one and keep repeating. The
other should wait a while and then shout stop. The number reached should
be genuinely random. Please post the results on my website and I’ll tell

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015734
