8

ORG CHART

he White House, realized former naval officer Steve Bannon after a few weeks, was
LT really a military base, a government-issue office with a mansion’s fagade and a few
ceremonial rooms sitting on top of a secure installation under military command. The
juxtaposition was striking: military hierarchy and order in the background, the chaos of
the temporary civilian occupants in the fore.

You could hardly find an entity more at odds with military discipline than a Trump
organization. There was no real up-and-down structure, but merely a figure at the top and
then everyone else scrambling for his attention. It wasn’t task-based so much as response-
oriented—whatever captured the boss’s attention focused everybody’s attention. That was
the way in Trump Tower, just as it was now the way in the Trump White House.

The Oval Office itself had been used by prior occupants as the ultimate power symbol,
a ceremonial climax. But as soon as Trump arrived, he moved in a collection of battle
flags to frame him sitting at his desk, and the Oval immediately became the scene of a
daily Trump cluster-fuck. It’s likely that more people had easy access to this president than
any president before. Nearly all meetings in the Oval with the president were invariably
surrounded and interrupted by a long list of retainers—indeed, everybody strove to be in
every meeting. Furtive people skulked around without clear purpose: Bannon invariably
found some reason to study papers in the corner and then to have a last word; Priebus kept
his eye on Bannon; Kushner kept constant tabs on the whereabouts of the others. Trump
liked to keep Hicks, Conway, and, often, his old Apprentice sidekick Omarosa Manigault
—now with a confounding White House title—in constant hovering presence. As always,
Trump wanted an eager audience, encouraging as many people as possible to make as
many attempts as possible to be as close to him as possible. In time, however, he would
take derisive notice of those who seemed most eager to suck up to him.

Good management reduces ego. But in the Trump White House, it could often seem
that nothing happened, that reality simply did not exist, if it did not happen in Trump’s
presence. This made an upside-down kind of sense: if something happened and he wasn’t
present, he didn’t care about it and barely recognized it. His response then was often just a

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019966
