Fittuy Ricu

Once again, Chief Reiter was outraged. So much so that he
took the extraordinary step of calling the FBI and the federal
prosecutor's office.

At the time, the federal prosecutor of the Southern District of
Florida was a Republican named R. Alexander Acosta. Chief
Reiter recalls being present at Acosta’s swearing-in ceremony

CHAPTER 48 and remembers Acosta’s declaration that one of his goals would
} be the prosecution, to the fullest extent of the law, of anyone
who takes advantage of the weak—especially perpetrators of
sex crimes. Disgusted with Krischer’s laissez-faire attitude, Reiter
recalls thinking he’d found his man.
In Acosta, the chief saw a prosecutor who wouldn't shy away

from confronting a man with Jeffrey Epstein’s resources and
connections.

But it turned out that Acosta had worked under Ken Starr at
ry reached a verdict that floored Starr’s high-powered multinational law firm, Kirkland & Ellis.
And while Acosta had a sterling résumé, which included a stint
leal that Krischer had offered to clerking for future Supreme Court justice Samuel Alito, he had
Now the grand jury was recom-

FF only argued two cases before a judge.
zed with just one felony count of 4

At the time, Reiter did not know this. All he knew was that some-
one had to look much more seriously into Jeffrey Epstein’s crimes.
of underage girls. The original 7
s of unlawful sex acts with minors q
and lascivious molestation — hadi ; Reiter’s actions did not necessarily make him a hero—at least,

: hot in every corner of the community he served.

ystein to prison. : ' “Thad individuals suggest that the department’s approach to
‘render on a Sunday, when no one |
gned. A few hours later, he was”
llars bail.

yt even notified.

the i investigation and my referral of the investigation to the FBI
Was more horsepower than the investigation deserved. And I
/had other individuals suggest that—yeah, the term ‘back off
‘probably fits,” Reiter said in his deposition for B.B. vs. Epstein.

183

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010524
