Edwards adv. Epstein
Telephone interview with Virginia Roberts
Page 13 of 23

V: Yes. Just a normal flight, an e-ticket.
JS: Like the rest of us common folk.
V: But when I was traveling with Jeffrey, the majority of the time would be on the black jet.

JS: | Now, when you say there would be times when you would travel by yourself because he
was sending you somewhere, tell me about that. How did that come about?

V: So, one of his colleagues would be at the Carribean or Santa Fe or even New York, or
wherever, and he would call me up on those days where I am not working with him or in
Palm Beach with him, and he would ask me to get on the next plane to so and so and go
meet so and so, and that’s when I would take e-tickets. His secretary or special assistant,
whatever, would organize it for me and give me the details and I would just walk up the
line and they’d let me right through.

JS: Can you give me any ideas as to how many times it happened that Jeffrey would send
you off to meet some friend of his at some location outside of Palm Beach?

V: How many times it happened? I’m not too sure. Probably about 10-15 times.

JS: | Ok. And on those occasions, how much time would you spend with one of Jeffrey’s
friends when you were sent to a location that you would have to travel to?

V: Only a couple of days. Only 2 days, that’s it.

JS: And how were you paid for those trips?

V: I would be paid in cash upon my arrival back with Jeffrey. So, whenever I was back with
Jeffrey, he would count up how many days I’ve had, sometimes give me even more than
what I deserved, not deserved, but what I earned and give me a little extra.

JS: Was there a daily rate for those trips or was that per massage also?

V: Per massage. With Jeffrey, I would be honest. I wouldn’t tell him I did 15 massages if I
didn’t. He knew he could trust me. He could always come back to the other person that
he sent me to give massages and ask them as well, so you know, it was always by per

massage.

JS: Alright. When we’ve been talking about massages, tell me exactly what it is we’re
talking about when we speak about massages.

V: Same thing I would do to Jeffrey. Again, it would start out as a massage, which would
start with them being naked, and me giving him a legitimate massage to begin with, so

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012119
