without presupposition, ecstatically aware and selfless, it is God’s gift realized, a
joyfully awake and nonjudgmental empty state of transcendence. As we sit, we work
at feeling this in the brain of the enigmatically smiling stone Buddha.

The externally inactive state of high internal activity, the Bhagavad-Gita’s
formlessness in the world of form, inaction in the world of action, has a natural
mathematical representation in the simultaneously expanding and contracting
motions of hyperbolic dynamics and its associated entropic descriptors. How can
this kind of formlessness equip us for almost instantaneous knowing? In a resting
state of uniform hyperbolicity that only looks like randomness, accurate impressions
of others can arise quickly and from only a few data points of observation. In the
late 1960’s, University of California mathematician, Rufus Bowen, proved the now
famous shadow theorem. This says that in dynamical states of hyperbolicity, directly
observable on the screen in computer simulations, the first few points of the on-
going wild dynamical dance that appears to jump randomly from here to there on
the computer screen, counter-intuitively will quickly outline the entire skeleton of its
future global shape, its geometry, though more time of observation is required to
realize this structure in full detail. The contracting motions on the stable surface of
action, called a manifold, “iron down” all the points onto the unstable manifold that
serves to outline the shape of the attractor of all starting points. In such a system,
observation of just the first few points outline the whole. Intuition, anticipatory
knowing and that which some call prophesy, may be expressions of the hyperbolic
brain’s mind doing dynamical shadowing.

To review briefly, hyperbolic brain flow is made up of three decomposable
components: (1) The apparently predictable one along the main road of the action,
going straight ahead and round and round on a throughway called the center
manifold—analogous perhaps to what might be a sequentially logical development;
(2) Intersecting the center manifold transversally is a field of influence moving the
action away from the center manifold with out-of-the-box motion, exploring side
paths of unpredictably new, creative possibility called the unstable manifold, we
might think about inspired risk-taking, impulsive associations in thought; (3) Another

transversally intersecting field of influence, which conservatively, rationally, “irons

26

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013526
