million to Harvard for a theoretical physics research center—and in 2002 he
was taking a small group of scientists out to the TED conference in
Monterey. The TED organizers invited various other TED participants,
including me, to join the flight. A small group assembled at the private plane
terminal, most of us unfamiliar with our benefactor, and as we headed in the
direction of the discrete private plans we were gently pointed to our ride:
Epstein’s 727.

It is some thoroughly updated drawing room set-up, all of us
nervously ensconced in this luxury plane, waiting for our unknown host to
arrive—and soon he does, tanned, relaxed, with wide open smile,
accompanied by three young women.

It would be unlikely, outside of a men’s magazine fantasy of the luxe
life, that you could locate this in reality. Epstein’s attentions, taking time
with each of his passengers, seemed impossible to account for. The quiet of
the plane, engineered into acoustic perfection, seemed spooky. Epstein’s
three companions were witty, poised, helpful as well as powerfully
alluring—as though stewardesses of bygone times.

(One more thing about this trip: Google founders, Larry Page and
Sergey Brin, with their company still in its infancy, came out to see the
plane and, with a few other Googlers, literally ran whopping from one end of
the plan to the other. Then they described for Epstein, in what I can not now
remember as a put on or entrepreneurial brainstorm, a brand extension in
which they would market a line of Google bras with the Os as convenient
cups. In fact, the name Google, they said, was invented out of the belief that
men would focus on a word with two Os in it.)

Not long after this trip, Epstein’s assistant called to invite me for tea at
his house in New York, where Epstein, with what seemed to me little
understanding of the subject, began to ask me about media—the upside,
downside, and nature of media coverage. New York magazine was then
soliciting him for a profile, as was Vanity Fair, who had assigned the British
tabloid reporter, Vicki Ward, to the job.

Both profiles, New York’s by Landon Thomas, pivot on the Clinton
connection and detail the same quandary, how a man without clear
institutional bona fides nevertheless achieves wealth and influence.
Ward—who would more recently assert in the Daily Beast, that she was
barred by Vanity Fair from writing about under-age sex evidence (a fact that
could be read the other way: Vanity Fair, even looking to take down Epstein,
did not find the evidence credible)—follows a rabbit hole of questionable
contacts who might or might not have been the source or sources for

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022720
