324 18 Advanced Self-Modification: A Possible Path to Superhuman AGI

We envision teaching the system to prove theorems via a combination of supervised learning
and experiential interactive learning, using the Mizar database of mathematical theorems and
proofs (or some other similar database, if one should be created) (nttp://mizar.org). The
Mizar database consists of a set of “articles,” which are mathematical theorems and proofs
presented in a complex formal language. The Mizar formal language occupies a fascinating
middle ground: it is high-level enough to be viably read and written by trained humans, but
it can be unambiguously translated into simpler formal languages such as predicate logic or
Sasha.

CogPrime may be taught to prove theorems by “training” it on the Mizar theorems and
proofs, and by training it on custom-created Mizar articles specifically focusing on the sorts of
theorems useful for self-modification. Creating these articles will not be a trivial task: it will
require proving simple and then progressively more complex theorems about the probabilistic
success of CogPrime schemata, so that CogPrime can observe one’s proofs and learned from
them. Having learned from its training articles what strategies work for proving things about
simple compound schemata, it can then reason by analogy to mount attacks on slightly more
complex schemata — and so forth.

Clearly, this approach to self-modification is more difficult to achieve than the supercompi-
lation approach. But it is also potentially much more powerful. Even once the theorem-proving
approach is working, the supercompilation approach will still be valuable, for making incremen-
tal improvements on existing schema, and for the peculiar creativity that is contributed when
a modified supercompiled schema is compressed back into a modified schema expression. But,
we don’t believe that supercompilation can carry out truly advanced MindAgent learning or
knowledge-representation modification. We suspect that the most advanced and ambitious goals
of self-modification probably cannot be achieved except through some variant of the theorem-
proving approach. If this hypothesis is true, it means that truly advanced self-modification is
only going to come after relatively advanced theorem-proving ability. Prior to this, we will have
schema optimization, schema modification, and occasional creative schema innovation. But re-
ally systematic, high-quality reasoning about schema, the kind that can produce an orders of
magnitude improvement in intelligence, is going to require advanced mathematical theorem-
proving ability.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013240
