In re Terrorist Attacks on September 11, 2001, 392 F.Supp.2d 539 (2005)
10 A.L.R. Fed. 2d 789

[9]

[10]

[11]

3 Cases that cite this headnote

International Law
@Extent and effect of immunity

Under the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act’s
(FSIA) discretionary function exception, acts
which are performed at the planning level of
government, as opposed to those at the
operational level, are entitled to immunity. 28
ULS.C.A. § 1605(a)(5).

Cases that cite this headnote

International Law
@ Extent and effect of immunity

Relief agency established by government of
Saudi Arabia was entitled to immunity, under
discretionary function exception to Foreign
Sovereign Immunities Act (FSIA), in action
alleging it had provided funding for terrorist
organization responsible for September 11th
attacks; agency’s decisions regarding the
distribution of humanitarian relief funds were
within the discretion of its chairman and his
advisors and were guided by government
policies. 28 U.S.C.A. § 1605(a)(5).

1 Cases that cite this headnote

International Law
Extent and effect of immunity

Chairman of relief agency established by
government of Saudi Arabia, and Saudi Minister
of Interior, were entitled to immunity, under
discretionary function exception to Foreign
Sovereign Immunities Act (FSIA), in action
alleging their decisions regarding distribution of
humanitarian relief funds provided support for
terrorist organization responsible for September
11th attacks; allegations stemmed from officials’
discretionary functions inasmuch as _ their

WESTLAW

[12]

[13]

[14]

decisions were grounded in government’s social,
economic, and political policy. 28 U.S.C.A. §
1605(a)(5).

5 Cases that cite this headnote

Federal Courts
@Presumptions and burden of proof

In considering a motion to dismiss for lack of
personal jurisdiction, court reviews the
complaints and affidavits in the light most
favorable to plaintiffs, but does not accept
conclusory allegations or draw argumentative
inferences. Fed.Rules Civ.Proc.Rule 12(b)(2),
28 ULS.C.A.

8 Cases that cite this headnote

Constitutional Law

Non-residents in general

Federal Courts

Contacts with United States as a whole;
nationwide jurisdiction

For jurisdiction to exist under rule establishing
personal jurisdiction m any district court for
cases arising under federal law where defendant
has sufficient contacts with the United States as
a whole but is not subject to jurisdiction in any
particular state, there must be a federal claim,
personal jurisdiction must not exist over
defendant in any state, and defendant must have
sufficient contacts with the U.S. as a whole such
that the exercise of jurisdiction does not violate
Fifth Amendment due process. U.S.C.A.
Const.Amend. 5; Fed.Rules Civ.Proc.Rule
4(k)(2), 28 U.S.C.A.

3 Cases that cite this headnote

Courts
Allegations, pleadings, and affidavits

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017906
