Indian village of Ganeshpuri, called them our samsara. These limit the formlessness
of anticipation that underlies sensibility. Our samsara reduces the uncertainty that
could serve as grounds for new perceptions and understanding of others. Pre-
emptive distortions reduce the bandwidth available for new information. They impair
the range of empathic relations with others as well as ourselves. These restrictions
in possibilities and choices are expressed in enduring patterns of behavior, thinking
and feeling that mental health practitioners call personality and character. When
confronted with these constrictions, the self justifying and diagnostically revealing
thought about a feature of one’s personality is, “...doesn’t everybody? “ This pride in
our shape contrasts with the teachings about emptiness of one of Baba’s favorite
Indian holy men, Zipruanna, who sat all day, loin clothed naked in a garbage dump,
instructing his students and followers about knowing and being nothing.

We quantitate deficiencies in formlessness using statistical measures of
entropy. They characterize the system’s behavior as a distance from the state of
highest entropy also known as maximal randomness. Professor Karen Selz of
Emory University did a study in which her human subjects, after taking a battery of
personality inventories, were asked to remove as many dots as possible from a
computer screen full of them in three minutes. They were to do so by left clicking on
each of them with the mouse key. Two seconds after a dot was removed, it
reappeared and became subject to removal again. As they went about the dot
removal task and unbeknown to the subjects, the orbit inscribed by their dot
removing mouse travels was recorded for later graphic representation and
quantification. Most subjects with the usual broad mixture of personality traits
inscribed a wide variety of orbital line styles: little wiggles, big wiggles, large and
small loops, little smooth slides and big and little jumps. The counter-intuitive
coupling of stylistic rigidity and whole system instability (as in non-hyperbolic fixed
points described in the previous essay and below) is in evidence at the personality
and graphical extremes of her subject group.

A fastidious, rigidly organized, severely obsessive-compulsive subject
repeatedly removes the same dot, only occasionally moving to a neighboring one to

do more repetitious left key mouse clicking. Very little of the large computer screen

24

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013524
