February 1968, when they met and issued a historical statement announcing the establishment of a federal
union between Abu Dhabi and Dubai and called on their brothers in the neighboring emirates to join the union.
Do you know what it meant for us to stand few days ago with His Highness Sheikh Khalifa at the “Union
House” under the UAE flag, and in the same place where our ancestors stood the day of the UAE
announcement? Would you be able to appraise our feelings at that moment? These are moments that you cannot
ponder easily. They are priceless.

Those who know the truth about the Abu Dhabi and Dubai relationship and all the other Emirates, are well
aware that the federation of the UAE is a choice of wise and liberated people who are guided by their heart,
beliefs and wisdom. They are people who God Almighty described as ready to sacrifice their souls for others.
Again, I remind you of what His Highness Sheikh Khalifa said. “We are ... one strong, coherent body.

The National Abu Dhabi Media Company - Matt Slater

The United Arab Emirates is a federation but there is a tendency, particularly in health
and education, to allow individual emirates to dictate policy. Will this continue or will
the federal government seek to establish a more unified national approach on domestic
policy?

None of the seven emirates develops its own independent health and educational policies. All legislation and
policies related to education and overall health are developed at the federal level. What is happening is precisely
the expansion of the decentralized planning and implementation in order to raise the efficiency of education and
medical services. This is what we see in industrialized countries, such as the United States and the United
Kingdom, Germany, Switzerland and others. Our experience in education foundered for many reasons, and we
are racing against time to make up for what we missed and to create sustainable development in the education
sector. Of course, the process of development widens then to diversify the teaching methods and to attract
broad participation of the private sector.

The National Abu Dhabi Media Company - Matt Slater

The Federal National Council has expressed concern that its views are ignored by the
UAE cabinet and that, in reality, they have little power. What role do you see the FNC
playing within the country’s decision-making p rocess, and in what way is the Council
likely to evolve in the future?

We never received any complaints against the government for ignoring the views of the Council; instead we
always receive compliments and appreciation about cooperation. We constantly express our appreciation to the
Council for its role in the decision-making process. In fact, draft laws first have to pass through the FNC for
review and recommendations, and later sent back to the Cabinet for consideration and approval.

The Council is also empowered to summon and to question any Federal Minister regarding Ministry
performance. We believe in the importance of the Council, and we respect its effective role in the process since
its inception. The current session marked a beginning of change in the Council in the method of selecting its
members. We witnessed for the first time the formation of election associations in the UAE to elect half the
members of the 40-member Council, with 22 percent of members of the Council being women, one of the
highest such rates in the world.

In any case, since the founding of the UAE we chose the approach of gradualism. We in the UAE do not work

with a “burning stages” style. Our laws and procedures are in line with reality and our reticence. We believe
that our people are satisfied with this approach that results in prosperity and stability.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024937
