practice of foreign policy, and as such is antithetical to Western ideals,
which raises questions, misunderstandings, and fears among the Western
powers as China emerges a major world power. The notion of peaceful
development is also important, and is central to Xi Jinping’s
administration. This concept means that China seeks peaceful relations
with other members of the international community to establish fruitful
economic relations that will serve Chinese development goals. To achieve
this goal, China needs a stable environment. The concept of peaceful
development means, according to Xi Jinping, that “China will never seek
hegemony or expansion.”

Although Western powers may not approve of the “Chinese Model,” it
does explain Chinese policy on the Syrian crisis.

It is also worth noting the influence of China’s domestic situation on
Chinese policy in Syria. Beying cannot legitimize any insurrection abroad,
as it has to deal domestically with separatist issues (such as in Tibet,
Xinjiang, or Inner Mongolia.). To show that domestic considerations can
logically obliterate considerations of human rights, George Abu Ahmad,
taking domestic policies of Iran, Russia or China as an example, explains
that “the exceptional decision to attack the population is, therefore, not
only a sovereign right of the twentieth-century state, but the paramount
right that guarantees a state’s integrity.” This perspective helps us to
understand the way in which China may have internalized the causes of
the Syrian crisis in the context of its own domestic separatist issues and
thus cannot provide any legitimacy to an insurrection abroad.

A final point to make is China’s inability and unwillingness to take on a
“superpower” role within the international community. China has no
experience being a political leader on the international stage, and as a
result has mostly abstained in the Security Council on any draft resolution
that did not directly affect its own domestic situation. Nor does it like to
take any strong stances that could lead to diplomatic clashes with a major
power, especially the U.S. It seems improbable, given the record of
Chinese positions in the UN, that China would have opposed the Western
resolutions on Syria without the support of Russia.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031588
