other in fickle and short-lived alliances, ultimately their goals will collide and the
relationship deteriorates into mutually self-defeating conflicts. This, too, acts as
negative selection and maintains the low frequency of this peculiar phenotype.

On the other side of the conflict is the selective pressure on the rest of society.
Because sociopaths are rare, the intensity of the pressure on society to detect and
neutralize them is correspondingly weak. Weak pressure leads to poor adaptation,
while sociopaths experience strong pressure and become highly adapted. However,
as the sociopath phenotype finds evolutionary success, the pressure flips back the
other direction as the rest of society experiences increasing pressure, adapts, and
then pushes the frequency of the sociopaths back down to the basal level. In human
culture, this pendulum swings in both the long time scales of genetic evolution and
the short time scales of cultural evolution. In both contexts, the conflict is cyclical.

With this evolutionary framework in mind, we can now return to the question of
President Trump. Clearly, he attracts devoted supporters. When it serves him, he
can be affable, charming, and flattering. He reads people well and can maneuver
through his relationships in order to obtain the best “deal” for himself. While many
question his capacity for emotional empathy, his skills in cognitive empathy are
undeniable.

However, he also has maintained an unwavering pursuit of wealth, influence, and
power, even by his own admission. He has never participated in regular religious
observance, is not outwardly pious, and shows no allegiance to political party. It is
well documented that his views have shifted, sometimes repeatedly, on the most
central political questions of the day such as abortion, government involvement in
healthcare, military interventionism, federal drug policy, and LGBTQ rights. While
only his critics view him as racist and xenophobic, even his supporters see him as
fiercely nationalistic and his own campaign slogan of “America First” underscores
this. And finally, he aggressively pursues his own biological fitness through the
placement of his children in top positions in both his business enterprises and his
presidential administration. Thus, an evolutionary analysis reveals that he is clearly
not a psychopath.

Whether or not he is a narcissistic sociopath, then, depends on the answers to
questions about his conscience or lack thereof, commitment to truth and
transparency, sincerity in his religious beliefs, fidelity to political ideals, and
tendency to cheat, deceive, and coerce. These questions are more like Rorschach
tests in which his supporters and detractors come to the exact opposite conclusions.
However, for the most part, the answers to these questions do not require a
psychological analysis of the President. There is abundant evidence in the public
record.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_033325
