12

CHART 3: PERFORMANCE SINCE DECISION TO IMPEACH

130
125
120
115
110
105
100

95

90

Dec 2016 Jan 2017 Feb 2017 Mar 2017

Ms =~MSCI KOREA mu SCI ACW!

December 9, 2016 proved to be a pivotal point for the country.
The large-scale protests seeking a permanent change from the
cronyism that runs rampant within Korea were finally being

heard.

It is no coincidence that since December 9, 2016, the MSCI
Korea Index has outperformed as shown in CHART 3 the same
indices it lagged during President Park Geun-Hye’s tenure.
Investors and Korean citizens alike were finally sensing hope
with the leading presidential candidates. Moon Jae-In’s eventual
victory on May 10 secured the
belief that a president in the Blue
House was working for the
people and not exclusively for

Mu VISCI ASIA EX. JAPAN

“President Moon Jae-|In has

Apr 2017 May 2017 Jun 2017 Jul 2017

Source: Bloomberg

and is expected to help navigate the complex political
relationship with North Korea.

President Moon Jae-In, who was once the Chief of Staff to
President Roh Moo Hyun (1998-2008), assisted President Roh
in implementing the “Sunshine Policy.” The Sunshine Policy
was an attempt by the South Korean government to engage
North Korea with a softer, humanitarian stance in an effort to
build a peaceful relationship. President Moon will likely
reengage communications with North Korea in a similar
manner.

The president appointed Jang
Ha-Sung, formerly the dean of
Korea University’s Business

the chaebols.

President Moon Jae-In has
increased investor expectations
for corporate reforms and it is
critical for the nation to continue
down this path of weakening
family ties that maintain a
stranglehold on the Korean
economy. President Moon Jae-In
has quickly appointed key
members for advisory and
cabinet roles that are aligned
with the vision of eliminating corruption, enhancing corporate
governance, and revitalizing a fractured economy.

Korea’s decision to install the Terminal High Altitude Area
Defense system (THAAD) under the prior administration
resulted in escalating political tension between China and
South Korea. In the weeks leading up to President Park’s
impeachment hearings, China discouraged its citizens from
traveling to Korea and restricted the sale of Korean consumer
goods. President Moon Jae-In has moved swiftly to improve the
crumbling relationship with China by reevaluating the
deployment of the system. A friendly call with President Xi
Jinping after his election gradually improved the relationship

GLOBAL FORESIGHT THIRD QUAPTER 2017

increased investor expectations
for corporate reforms and It is
critical for the nation to continue
down this path of weakening
family ties that maintain a
stranglehold on the Korean
economy.”

School, to the position of Chief of
Staff for Policy. Jang Ha-Sung is a
familiar face within the world of
corporate reform as the founder of
the People’s Solidarity for
Participatory Democracy (PDSD),
a civil organization pursuing
shareholder reform. The PDSD
was formed in the late 1990s and
successfully fought for minority
shareholders in legal battles
against SK Telecom, Samsung
Electronics, and others.

Another governance advocate with a boisterous history of
shareholder activism, Kim Sang-Jo, a professor of economics at
Hansung University and executive director of “Solidarity for
Economic Reform” (SER) was appointed as the Head of the Fair
Trade Commission (FTC) in early June. Kim Sang-Jo and Jang
Ha-Sung are longstanding allies in the field of corporate
activism with Mr. Kim succeeding Mr. Jang as first chairman of
PDSD’s future organization in 2006.

The Korean stock market has been a star performer in 2017
with the KOSPI up approximately 24%, year-to-date in $USD
basis and outperforming neighboring markets, such as Japan,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012090
