But it appears his problems may not be over. Now The Daily Beast has learned that:

* Federal investigators continue to investigate Epstein’s activities, to see whether there is evidence of child
trafficking—a far more serious charge than the two in his non-prosecution agreement, the arrangement
between Epstein and the Department of Justice allowing him to plead guilty to lower-level state crimes.
Trafficking can carry a 20-year sentence.

¢ The FBI is also investigating Epstein’s friend Jean Luc Brunel, whose MC2 modeling agency appears to have
been a source of girls from overseas who ended up on Epstein’s private jets.

Because Epstein’s predatory habits stretch back many years and involved dozens of young-looking girls, there
may well be more evidence to uncover.

Under the concept of double jeopardy, Epstein can no longer be prosecuted for any of the charges covered by
his non-prosecution agreement, in which he agreed to serve a short term of incarceration, fund the civil suits of
named victims, and register as a sex offender. The victims who accepted cash settlements in these civil suits
agreed not to testify against him or speak publicly about the case. However, new evidence developed by the
Department of Justice on other offenses not covered by the agreement, including allegations by additional
victims who come forward, could lead to new charges. There is no statute of limitations in the federal sex-
trafficking law, which was also enacted by the state of Florida in 2002. Because his predatory habits stretch
back many years and involved dozens of young-looking girls, there may well be more evidence to uncover.
(Several young women who claim to be Epstein victims have recently contacted a Ft. Lauderdale lawyer, but to
date no new civil complaints have been filed.)

* Conchita Sarnoff: The Billionaire Pedphile's Sex Den

* Billionaire Pedophile Goes Free

These new developments come one week after the publication of two articles in The Daily Beast about
Epstein’s pattern of sexual contact with underage girls, which Palm Beach police began investigating in 2005
and the U.S. Attorney’s office then settled in a 2007 plea deal. The first article quoted a deposition by then-
Palm Beach Chief of Police Michael Reiter, in which he stated that Epstein, a billionaire with many powerful
friends, had received special treatment in both his plea deal and the terms of his incarceration. Although federal
investigators at one point produced a draft 53-page indictment against Epstein, he was eventually allowed to
plead guilty to only two relatively minor state charges and receive a short term of incarceration: 13 months in
the county jail, during which he went to the office every day, and one year of community control, during which
he traveled frequently to New York and his private island in the Virgin Islands.

The Daily Beast has now discovered another instance in which Epstein apparently received special
consideration: As a convicted sex offender, he is required by law to undergo an impartial psychological
evaluation prior to sentencing and to receive psychiatric treatment during and after incarceration. This is
because child molesters tend to be repeat offenders with high rates of recidivism. According to a source in law
enforcement, however, Epstein was allowed to submit a report by his private psychologist, Dr. Stephen
Alexander of Palm Beach, Florida, whose phone has since been disconnected with no forwarding information.

The Daily Beast’s second article provided details about Epstein’s systematic abuse of underage girls at his
Palm Beach mansion, where members of his staff allegedly recruited and paid a parade of teenagers, most of
them 16 or younger, to perform daily massages that devolved into masturbation, groping, and sometimes full-
blown sexual contact. It also revealed a monetary relationship between Epstein and Jean Luc Brunel, a frequent
visitor to whom he gave $1 million around the same time that Brunel was starting his MC2 modeling agency.
Some of the young girls MC2 recruited from overseas—often from Eastern Europe and South America—are
known to have been passengers on Epstein’s private jets.

The U.S. Attorney General’s Office in Florida says that it is against policy to confirm or deny the existence of
an investigation. Jeffrey Epstein’s lawyer, Jack Goldberger, says he has no knowledge of an ongoing probe,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029771
