Case 1:19-cv-03377-LAP Document 36-4 Filed 07/03/19 Page 5of6

43, During the lawsuit, Mr, Edwards and I realized that Ms. Giuffre would need separate
legal counsel, apart from us, when she became a witness, As a result, we requested and helped to
arrange for Ms. McCawley to provide that separate representation,

44. Irecall that at some point during the lawsuit, Mr. Dershowitz met with Mr. Boies in
an eftort to persuade Mr, Boies of his innocence of abusing Ms. Giuffre. While I was not present
at that meeting, it was my understanding from later events that Mr. Boies did not find
Dershowitz’s claims of innocence to be persuasive, particularly given that Dershowitz repeatedly
made statements that were demonstrably untrue and apparently deliberate lies,

45. Ultimately, Mr. Edwards and I agreed to settle our defamation lawsuit against Mr.
Dershowitz. The terms of the settlement were confidential and nothing in this affidavit should be
construed as any disclosing confidential terms of that settlement.

46. That said, I can report that, contemporaneously with settling the case, my attomey,
Jack Scarola, filed a Notice of Withdrawal of Motion for Partial Summary Judgment in which he
responded to a public distortion made prominently by Mr. Dershowitz. Mr. Dershowitz claimed
publicly that the word “mistake,” contained in a jointly agreed public statement issued by him
and us at the ime of settlement, showed that we had supposedly exonerated him of the charges
made by our client, Ms, Giuffre. To help keep the record from being distorted, Mr. Scarola
included the following accurate statement:

In the event that the noticed withdrawal is determined to be subject to
Court approval, the Plaintiffs would show in support of this notice that Edwards
and Cassell continue to represent Virginia Giuffre in separate pending matters,
and shall continue to advance her legitimate legal interests in those matters. As
expressly understood by the parties upon the execution of the Confidential
Settlement Agreement and Mutual Release, Ms. Giuffre reaffirms her allegations,
and the withdrawal of the referenced filings is not intended to be, and should not
be construed as being, an acknowledgement by Edwards and Cassell that the
allegations made by Ms. Giuffre were mistaken. Edwards and Cassell do
acknowledge that the public filing in the Crime Victims’ Rights Act case of their
client's allegations against Defendant Dershowitz became a major distraction from
the merits of the well-founded Crime Victims’ Rights Act case by causing delay
and, as a consequence, tumed out to have been a tactical mistake, For that reason,
Edwards and Cassell have chosen to withdraw the referenced filing as a condition
of settlement,

Notice of Withdrawal of Motion for Partial Summary Judgment, Edwards & Cassell vy.
Dershowitz, No. 15-000072 (17 Judicial Circuit for Broward County, Florida) (Apr. 8, 2016).

No Extortion Plot Exists

53. I understand that Mr. Dershowitz has alleged that, in around fall 2014, Mr. Boies and
Ms. McCawley were involved in an “extortion plot” to obtain money from Mr. Wexner. I am
not aware of any such plot or even any suggestion of such a plot. I would also find any such
Suggestion entirely at odds with the professionalism that [ have seen exhibited by Mr. Boies and
Ms. McCawley in the course of professional dealings with them, including working closely with
them as co-counsel to represent Ms. Giuffre in the complicated Giuffre v. Maxwell case. At all
times they have exhibited nothing but the highest levels of professionalism and adherence to
cthical requirements.

54, I expected no less since ! knew that Mr. Boies had served as legal counsel in many
high profile cases before I had the chance to work with him, including representing the Vice
President of the United States before the United States Supreme Court in Bush v. Gore. And

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016201
