victims here’’d.

Dershowitz, with chest pounding bravado, rejects a series of lower-level plea
deals and Palm Beach District Attorney Barry Krischer takes the unusual step of
empanelling a grand jury, which returns with a recommendation of a single count
of soliciting a prostitute—a charge without jail time. (And Epstein can apply to
have his record expunged after a year.)

At which point, Reiter, the police chief, at odds with the District Attorney’s
office, recruits the involvement of the FBI. This is of course the Bush-era FBI and
Epstein presents quite the Clinton-connected scandal. Still, solicitation, even of a
minor, is not a federal crime. The FBI hits on the novel interpretation that if
Internet solicitation can be considered interstate commerce, so can telephone
solicitation, permitting them to begin a deep dive investigation into Epstein’s
friends, many of whom receive subpoenas and are threatened with prosecution.

It’s all quite in the eye of the beholder: On the one end, Epstein is paying for
sex acts (Epstein paid $200 for a massage with or without happy ending), on the
other, he is abusing teenage girls. It’s a catch-22: How can a girl not old enough to
vote be a prostitute? And yet, many girls not old enough to vote are without a
doubt prostitutes.

Compounding Epstein’s predicament, the world outside of his carefully
constructed and controlled environment is someplace that he seems not just
ill-equipped to handle but in which he seems to be blindly grouping about (i.e. he’s
totally tone deaf). I visited him once during this time and found him weighing the
conflicting advice of some of the most vaunted and egomaniacal lawyers (along
with Dershowitz and Black, celebrity criminal attorney, Gerald Lefcourt, and
Clinton prosecutor, Ken Starr) of the day—anyone with new advice, Epstein
seemed to hire—as well as a catchall of the leading crisis managers, who he
seemed to retain at will, all wrangling for fees and primacy.

Certainly, the upshot of his dealings with the Justice Department seem to
involve a through-the-looking-glass logic. The government threatens to prosecute
him (with the possibility of a 10-year sentence) and various friends, associates, and
lovers, or offers what seems to be unprecedented arrangement in which Epstein’s
lawyers (not federal prosecutors, but Epstein’s lawyers, in some ultimate act of self
incrimination) have to go to the Palm Beach authorities and convince them to up
the charges to an offense that will send him to jail and get him a sex offender
status. Except that a solicitation charge won’t produce that result. Therefore he has
to get them to agree to a procurement or pimping charge (even though he has paid
money, not received it—the sine qua non of pimping). What’s more, in a unique, if
not unprecedented arrangement, he has to agree to pay the legal fees of any of the
girls who want to sue him—and, agree not to defend himself from their
suits—forcing him to settle with each of the girls for what are reportedly high

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022859
