Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 751-10 Filed 03/17/17 Page 3 of 4
But the woman's allegations have previously been firmly rejected by Buckingham Palace.

It is emphatically denied that the Duke of York had any form of sexual contact or relationship with Virginia Roberts.
Any claim to the contrary is false and without foundation, the palace said early this month.

Statement: | just called him 'Andy'

Prince Andrew is named in the court filing in Florida as one of a number of prominent people who allegedly had
sexual contact with teenage girls through self-made billionaire Jeffrey Epstein, who pleaded guilty some years ago in
Florida to a state charge of prostitution solicitation.

CNN was unable to reach Martin Weinberg, Epstein's attorney, on Thursday.
In her first sworn statement to the court, Jane Doe No. 3 gave more details of the alleged encounters.
Epstein made me have sex with Prince Andrew several times, she said, according to the court document.

| had sex with him three times, including one orgy. | knew he was a member of the British Royal Family, but | just
called him ‘Andy.’ 

One day when she was in London, she said, Epstein told her she would be meeting a major prince.

She continued: Epstein told me 'to exceed' everything | had been taught. He emphasized that whatever Prince
Andrew wanted, | was to make sure he got.

‘Sexual interests in feet'

When the prince arrived, she was introduced, she said, and we kissed formally, cheek to cheek. The group went
for dinner and to a nightclub where she was served alcohol before returning to the townhouse. The picture referred
to in the letter, of the prince with Roberts, was taken there, she said.

After the pair were left alone, she said, We went to the bathroom and bedroom, which were just steps away from
where the picture was taken. We engaged in sexual activities there. Afterwards, Andy left quickly with his security.

She said she had reported back to Epstein on the encounter next day, telling him, It went great.

| told Epstein about Andy's sexual interests in feet. Epstein thought it was very funny. Epstein appeared to be
collecting private information about Andy, she added.

Roberts also gave details of two more alleged occasions when the pair had sex. One was in Epstein's New York
mansion in spring 2001, she said, when she was 17.

The third and last occasion was at an orgy involving nine girls on Epstein's private island in the U.S. Virgin Islands,
her statement said.

| was around 18 at the time. Epstein, Andy, approximately eight other young girls, and | had sex together.

The other girls, who appeared to be under 18, were European looking and sounding and didn't really speak
English, she said. She said she felt disgusted after the orgy.

‘Voluntarily tell the truth’

Roberts rejected the palace's denial of the allegations and said she hoped Andrew would agree to be interviewed
under oath. I did have sexual contact with him as | have described here -- under oath, she said.

2/3

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014825
