OTHER INVESTMENT PROFESSIONALS

Kathy LaPorte, (52), Venture Partner, is an angel investor in the Digital Health space focusing
on evaluating and mentoring start-ups developing digital technology solutions for healthcare
consumers, providers, payers and the pharmaceutical/medical device industries. Kathy is
affiliated with Health Tech Capital and is a Venture Partner with New Leaf, collaborating on
sourcing of opportunities with an emphasis on the Information Convergence sector. Kathy was
one of the founders of New Leaf upon its spin out from the Sprout Group in 2005. Kathy joined
the Sprout Group in 1993 and became a General Partner in 1994. Between 1987 and 1993, she
was a Principal at Asset Management Company, a venture capital firm focused on early stage
investments. Kathy received an M.B.A. from Stanford University Graduate School of Business
(Arjay Miller Scholar), and a B.S., summa cum laude, Phi Beta Kappa from Yale University.

Mark Charest, Ph.D., (36), Portfolio Manager, joined New Leaf in 2012. Previously, Mark was
an Associate and Kauffman Fellow at Panorama Capital (2010-2012) focused on life sciences
investments. Mark previously worked as a Consultant at ZS Associates (2009) and as an
Associate at Great Point Partners (2007-2009), a healthcare-focused public and private equity
investment firm. Prior to that, Mark held an operating role as a Medicinal Chemistry Lab
Manager at Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research (2004-2007). Mark received his Ph.D. in
Chemistry and Chemical Biology from Harvard University as a National Science Foundation
Graduate Research Fellow.

Mike Dybbs, Ph.D., (39), Principal, joined New Leaf in 2009 and was promoted to Principal in
2012. Mike is currently on the boards of directors of Advanced Cellular Diagnostics and
Versartis. Prior to joining New Leaf, Mike was a Principal at the Boston Consulting Group
(BCG) where he was a core member of their Health Care practice. Mike graduated magna cum
laude from Harvard University with an AB in biochemical sciences and received his Ph.D. in
molecular biology and genetics from UC Berkeley, where he was awarded a Howard Hughes
Medical Institute fellowship. His research had been published in peer-reviewed journals,
including Neuron, Science and Nature.

Eric Kim, (28), Associate, joined New Leaf in December 2013. From 2011 through 2013, Eric was
a Private Equity Associate at Francisco Partners, where he focused on diligence and company
oversight efforts on the firm’s healthcare information technology portfolio. Prior to joining
Francisco Partners, Eric worked for three years at McKinsey & Company as a Senior Business
Analyst in their Corporate Finance Practice. Eric received his dual B.A. in Mathematical
Methods in the Social Sciences and Economics from Northwestern University.

Isaac Manke, Ph.D., (37), Portfolio Manager, joined New Leaf in 2009 as an Associate and was
promoted to Public Investment Director in 2012. Prior to joining New Leaf, Isaac was an
Associate in the Global Biotechnology Equity Research group at Sanford C. Bernstein.
Previously, Isaac worked as an Associate in the Biotechnology Equity Research group at
Deutsche Bank and was a Senior Analyst at Health Advances, a biopharmaceutical and medical
device strategy consulting firm. Isaac received a B.A. in Biology and a B.A. in Chemistry at
Minnesota State University (Moorhead), and a Ph.D. in Biophysical Chemistry and Molecular
Structure at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). Isaac’s discoveries led to several
publications in top journals, including Science and Cell, and were selected by Science as one of

14 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024025
