Principals and their affiliates in connection with the Real Estate Transaction. The Junior Mezzanine debt
is subordinated to the new CMBS debt. Cash interest is payable on the Junior Mezzanine debt at a rate
of 15.13% and payable in kind at a rate of 1.50%. The Junior Mezzanine debt matures in May of 2016.
Interest paid in kind may not be paid in cash until the CMBS debt is paid in full. The Junior Mezzanine
debt is nonrecourse to KLC OpCo.

Prepayment of the Junior Mezzanine debt is prohibited through November 9, 2010, after which
prepayment is permitted in whole or in part, subject to a prepayment premium equal to 8.32% for
prepayments in the first year, 6.66% for prepayments made in the second year, 4.99% for prepayments
made in the third year, 3.33% for prepayments made in the fourth year and 1.66% for prepayments made
in the fifth year. After November 9, 2015, the CMBS debt may be prepaid in whole without premium or

penalty.

12.8. Terms of the Master Lease

As part of the Real Estate Transactions, in November 2005, KLC refinanced its indebtedness and divided
KUE into KLC OpCo and KLC PropCo, and KLC OpCo entered into a Master Lease with KLC PropCo for
713 centers. The term of the Master Lease is 15 years and annual rent under the Master Lease is $91
million per year, subject to increases every five years. The Master Lease is a triple net lease that requires
KLC OpCo to pay all operational expenses, taxes, utilities, insurance and maintenance costs with respect
to the leased centers, and the Master Lease may not be terminated by KLC OpCo. KLC OpCo is
required to make certain deposits or to provide letters of credit for taxes, insurance and maintenance of
the properties. KLC is also required to deposit rent payments into a segregated deposit account
controlled by the CMBS debt lenders. KLC OpCo has the right under certain circumstances to release
and substitute properties under the Master Lease. KLC OpCo has entered into separate, substantially
smaller leases of KLC PropCo’s remaining properties.

105

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024538
