| SPORTS The Virgin ielends Baily News’ 63

USVI ae volleyball team
defeats Guadeloupe, 3-1,
for fifth plate at CAZOVA ;

=cOn Friday; the USVibwas: ‘upset by
sapeevioailt ‘winless’ Bahamas squad,
Aseah Thomas had 23 points’ and: . »25-16;:19-259%25-17,26-24, in the
team captain Nayib Gonzalez added .. quarterfinals of the tournament: i
20 as they led the U.S. Virgin Islands; . Gonzalez.led-the USVI: with a
junior men’s volleyball team past ~ ‘match-high: 20-points; followed by
host Guadeloupe, 25-21, 20-25, 20- _ Thomas with 16 points.
25, 25-21, 15-9, on Saturday in the Team ¢aptain Rajahl Moxey. led

fifth-place game at the ninth. the’ Bahamas with T6-points; fol i

Monday, July 29,2013.

Team New Zealand defeats Italy
ain America’ S Cup challenger trials

The Associated Press

SAN FRANCISCO — Emirates Team New Zealand
beat Italy’s Luna Rossa by 3 minutes, 21 seconds in
their final meeting of the round-robins in the America’s _

- Cup challenger trials Sunday on San Francisco Bay. °

As the points leader in the round-robins,-fhe Kiwis
had the choice of advancing straight to the Louis Vuitton
Cup final or picking their opponent for the semifinals.
Skipper Dean Barker said that while the New Zealanders
considered gettmg in more racmg time, they’ve decidea

Daily News Staff

Fite Photo by ASSOCIATED PRESS
Emirates Team New Zealand.

to advance straight to the finals in order to continue
development of their 72-foot catamaran.

That leaves Luna Rossa to face Artemis Racing of
Sweden in the semifinals starting Aug. 6. Artemis only
recently launched its.new boat and hasn’t sailed in the
round-robins. The syndicate has been slowed by the
fatal capsize of its first boaton May 9. -

The Louis Vuitton Cup finals begin Aug. 17, with the
winner advancing to face Oracle Team USA in the 34th
America’s Cup starting Sept. 7.

Team New Zealand had slight lead at the start Sunday
and built its lead at every turing mark on the seven-leg
course. It went 5-0 against the Italians, including the
opening race that Italy boycotted due to a rules spat. |

In their four head-to-head matchups, the Kiwis were so
dominant that the Italians twice were officially ruled a
DNF — did not finish — because they crossed the finish
fine more than'five minutes behind Tear New Zealand.

After the race, Tom Cruise and his son boarded Team

CAZOVA Junior Men’s
Championship in Guadeloupe. -

~ lowed by Kenton ‘Dawkins with 10
points; three.of which were, blocks.

Thomas had seven aces and one, _ Justin Smith added nine points) ~ ese

block, while Gonzalez’s 20 points -
came by way of kills in the match,.
which lasted five.

Malick Frederic was Guadeloupe’s
top scorer with 22 points, while
Yannis Biodore added 15 points and
Meidhy Tacita added 10.

we PROMOTE YoU sa Tae sie ag

ww, promoworldontheweb com|

New Zealand’s boat and.were given a nde across the bay.

340-244-3142)

“did you kuow? oo 2
WE DO BUSINESS CARDS!

1000 FULL ‘COLORCARDS
LOWEST PRICES IN THE Vi!

V.I. Future Stars Baseball Showcase

SANTAGY

ULTRAVIOLET: ‘WATER: PURIFIERS -

Above, Malik
Mitchell, a
pitcher in his
second year at
Genesee

| College,

| throws a pitch

| for scouts.

Safe = ae

- solution: for the
| disinfection of -
[cistern -water without|

| Atlett, Leroy “use of chemicals...

Simmonds, a
_ .| shortstop
and fornfer
_-. | student at St.
“=! Croix Central
“| High School,
makes a play
to get a
runner out at
first base.

Daily News Photos by THOMAS LAYER
Coaches Skip. Sherman, right, of Genesee Community College in Batavia, N.¥., and Scott Dulin, of
- Fisher College in Boston, Mass., holding a radar gun, scout baseball prospects at the V1. Future
Stars’ annual Summer Baseball Showcase on Saturday at Lionel Roberts Stadium on St. Thomas.
There were also representatives from Southern Conneticut State University, the San Francisco
Giants, St. Louis Cardinals and Colarado Rockies. The showcase, organized by V\.-Future Stars
president Daren Canton gives local players the opportunity to display their athletic skills for college
and professional scouts. =

‘Simple to install
“and? maintain.

LE
Sle CF JCMS Y
= FEO ME STS RE

WE DO IT ALL

SEALY, SERTA, SIMMONDS,
TEMPURPEDIC & all major
brand names available at
Mainland Prices
0% In-House
Financing available
Up to 60 months

Largest Showroom in The Virgin Islands

| MATTRESS @ONE

#1 Mattress Superstore! 10,000 sq ft

For The Pest of Youn Dreams

: A Neko shi to a .
your family’s health sets
Modern Tropical Easy living

Ft. Myiner ¢ St. Thomas
(340) 714-7993
www.silkGreeneryHome.com

MONDAY-SATURDAY 9-8 PM * SUNDAY 11-6 PM ¢ 775-2100 » FOUR WINDS PLAZA, ST, THOMAS

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021728
