| JIMMY C. CHANG, CFA Chief Investment

Yesterday Once More;
Tomorrow Never Knows

Strategist
212.549.5218

jchang@rockco.com

China’s housing boom once again fueled

global growth, but how long will it last?

consequential publication in 1776? With this article

being published around July 4, you would probably think
we are hinting at the US. Declaration of Independence. That
would be a good response, but unlike the laws of physics or
mathematics, there is not exactly a right answer to such a
question.

One could also point to a book published on March 9, 1776,
that has had a transformative impact over time. It has a long
title: An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of
Nations, and is generally referred to as The Wealth of Nations.
This seminal work supposedly took Scottish economist and
philosopher Adam Smith 10 years to complete, and was based
on notes and observations spanning 17 years. It challenged the
mercantilist and physiocratic economic theories that domi-
nated the intellectual debate during the mid-18th century.
Mercantilist theory held that countries grow wealthier by maxi-
mizing domestic production and exports, and was the basis for
European imperialism. Physiocratic theory postulated that the
wealth of nations was derived from the value of agricultural and
land development, and could trace the inspiration to China’s
agrarian traditions.

The Wealth of Nations marked the birth of modern capitalism
and also had an influence on our Founding Fathers. James
Madison cited the treatise in arguing against the need for a cen-
tral bank in 1791; Thomas Jefferson referred to it as the best
book on money and commerce. In February 1977, in celebra-
tion of America’s Bicentennial, the Federal Reserve Bank of
Richmond published the paper The Relevance of Adam Smith.
It pointed out the striking similarities between the intellectual
spirit of The Wealth of Nations and the Declaration of
Independence. Both railed against the heavy hand of the state,
and emphasized individual liberty and the harnessing of indi-
vidual self-interest to the welfare of the greater society.

| et us begin with a trivia question—what was the most

So it is perhaps a tie between these two publications. One gave
birth to modern economics that created the greatest prosperity

GLOBAL FORESIGHT THIRD QUAPTER 2017

in human history, and the other marked the founding of argu-
ably the most powerful and wealthiest nation ever.

Do Not Bet Against the House

At around the time that America celebrated its Bicentennial,
China reached a historic turning point. Chairman Mao passed
away in September 1976, and a month later, the arrest of the
Gang of Four marked the end of the decade-long Cultural
Revolution. Deng Xiaoping then returned to power and
embarked on reforms that powered roughly 10% real GDP
growth per annum for the next four decades and lifted more
than 800 million people out of poverty. Today, the Chinese
economy is the largest in the world based on purchasing power
parity.

Interestingly, China’s rise had little to do with Adam Smith’s
free-market capitalism. While China’s unprecedented economic
ascension was indeed fueled by unleashing the energy and the
profit-seeking self-interest of the individual, its development
has always been shaped by the government's heavy hand.
Successive Five-Year Plans, which first started in 1953,
continued to guide social and economic development, and key
industries remained mostly state-owned. Some argued that
China has been pursuing a mercantilist policy in building up its
manufacturing base to drive exports and accumulate foreign
exchange reserves. Indeed, its share of global exports has
remarkably grown from about 1% in 1980 to around 15% by
2016, the largest in the world. Some claimed that China even
produces more sombreros than Mexico.

In the wake of the Global Financial Crisis in late 2008 and early
2009, China realized that the country’s growth model could no
longer depend on external demand, and responded by
unleashing massive stimulus for infrastructure projects. It
worked so well that China’s growth skyrocketed, asset prices
shot up, and the housing market became overheated. Globally,
China’s reflation and the Fed’s quantitative easing generated an
echo bubble in commodities and emerging market stocks.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012084
