Their collective experience is from industry, including leading large and entrepreneurial
corporations, as well as from the provider side, including senior administration of one of the
world’s most prominent and forward-thinking teaching hospitals. These professionals include
the following:

John Halamka, M.D., is a physician and technology leader who focuses on electronic health
records as well as secure sharing of healthcare data for care coordination, population health,
and quality improvement. He is currently Chief Information Officer of Beth Israel Deaconess
Medical Center and also a practicing Emergency Physician and Professor at Harvard Medical
School. He is current Chairman of the New England Healthcare Exchange Network (NEHEN),
co-chair of the national HIT Standards Committee, and co-Chair of the Massachusetts HIT
Advisory Committee.

Lee Newcomer, M.D., Senior Vice President, UnitedHealthcare with strategic responsibility for
Oncology, Genetics and Women’s Health. Dr. Newcomer returned to UnitedHealthcare in
2006 to focus on combining clinical, financial and administrative incentives for improved and
affordable cancer care. From 1991 to 2000, Dr. Newcomer was the chief medical officer at
UnitedHealthcare. He is a board certified medical oncologist and former chairman of Park
Nicollet Health Services and was previously a medical director for CIGNA Health Care of
Kansas City. Dr. Newcomer was a founding executive of Vivius, a consumer directed venture
that allowed consumers to create their own personalized health plans.

Stephen Oesterle, M.D., Senior Vice President for Medicine and Technology, Medtronic Inc. Dr.
Oesterle is focused on the formation of technological strategies and continued development of
relationships with the world’s medical communities. He previously served as an Associate
Professor of Medicine at the Harvard University Medical School and as Director of Invasive
Cardiology Services at Massachusetts General Hospital.

Marcia Radosevich, Founder and CEO of HPR, a HCIT company that was sold to McKesson.
Her prior experience was with Managed Health Care Services, The Travelers Insurance
Companies, and Health Data Institute (a healthcare consulting firm).

Anand Shroff, Chief Technology and Product Officer and Co-Founder, Health Fidelity, Inc.
Prior to joining Health Fidelity, Mr. Shroff was VP of HIE and EHR Products at Optum (a
division of UnitedHealthcare). He came to Optum by way of acquisition of Axolotl Corporation,
a leader in the health information exchange (HIE) space. Anand was also a founding member of
the Oracle Healthcare team, and was responsible for Oracle’s healthcare product portfolio that
included healthcare analytics, clinical data management, and terminology mediation solutions.

David Watson, Vice President of Healthcare Product Strategy, Oracle. Previously he was the
Chief Operating Officer of MedeAnalytics, and prior to that was Senior Vice President and
Chief Technology Officer of Kaiser Permanente. Prior to Kaiser, Mr. Watson served in a variety
of executive IT roles at Baxter Healthcare, Allergan, Northrup Grumman, and Mattel. He is a
senior HCIT executive with 25 years of experience delivering client facing solutions in the broad
areas of application development, infrastructure engineering, business consulting, strategy,
architecture and operations.

16 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024027
