dislocation (more metrics can be found in our Alternating Currents Weekly). We rate ED
Underweight to take advantage of this sector dislocation. ED on its own is
fundamentally overvalued. ED trades at a 0.5x premium to its peers despite having
slower than average growth prospects, increasing regulatory complexity, and the
overhanging risk of fines for the Harlem explosion.

Table 1: ConEd key stock data

Industry US Electric Utilities
Market Cap (mn) $22,400
Price $74.07
Total Debt / 2019 EBITDA 3.88
% of sell-side rated Sell 26.3%
Short interest % of float 3.94%

Source: Bloomberg and BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research estimates

Not your grandmothers ConEd - increasing complexity changes investment story
ConEd is facing very slow growth electric demand growth in its utilities with 0.2% y/y
growth in its CECONY subsidiary through 20201 and -0.1% growth in its O&R
subsidiary. To offset this slow growth, ConEd has been increasing the complexity of its
business by purchasing gas and electric transmission assets which have higher growth
potential but face more market risk (most notably the JV with Crestwood in the
Stagecoach midstream pipeline system). Furthermore, the regulatory regime in New
York is undergoing a fundamental shift as the Reforming Energy Vision (REV) program is
implemented. REV seeks to fundamentally change how utilities are compensated by
creating more of a ‘platform’ for energy delivery. Slow growth, changing business mix,
and new regulatory constructs add considerable risk to what used to be a “go to” vanilla
regulated utility.

An overvalued Sector and Potential Catalysts

For a long time, ConEd was viewed as the quintessential utility and, during the run-up in
Utility valuations in 2016 its shares outperformed despite its weakening fundamentals.

As the story becomes more complex and the utility sector adjusts to lower valuation we
would expect ED to underperform with a similar symmetry to other utility stocks.

Latest reports:
Recent BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research Reports

Title: Subtitle Primary Author Date Published
Utilities: Fed promises more hikes: utes face more downside Brian Chin 15 December 2016
risk in early 2017

Utilities: Alternating Currents Weekly Brian Chin 18 December 2016

1Q17 risks: Risks to our thesis are primarily macro related. If utility sector valuations
remain disconnected from historical fundamentals for the quarter or if rising interest
rates significantly reverse course our Underweight rating on ConEd could not
materialize.

Company Description: Consolidated Edison (ED) is the owner of Consolidated Edison
Company of New York (CECONY) and Orange & Rockland Utilities (O&R) providing
electric, gas and steam service to 3.5 million customers in New York City and the
northern suburbs. ConEd also has a transmission segment with gas pipeline, storage,
and electric transmission. Finally, ConEd has three competitive energy businesses:
ConEd Development (energy infrastructure), Energy (wholesale services), and Solutions
(retail services).

Bankof America <>
Merrill Lynch Top 10 US Ideas Quarterly | 03 January 2017 7

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014628
