175

China had succeeded, it would have forced a significant modification of Singapore’s
approach to Taiwan.

This was not the first unofficial visit by a Singaporean leader to Taiwan. Previous
unofficial visits by even more senior Singapore leaders had passed without incident.
The 2004 visit conformed to the established pattern in form and substance of previous
visits. But what the 2004 incident had in common with the 2016-17 episode was that
both occurred at times of political transition in Singapore.

In 2004, it was clear that Lee Hsien Loong would replace Goh Chok Tong as
Singapore’s third prime minister. By 2016, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong had made
public his intention to step aside after the next general election (due by 2020) and let
a younger generation of political leaders take over. The pressures deployed on both
occasions may have been intended as tests of the resolve of new leaders and warnings
to new leaders about what to expect unless they were more accommodating to China.

South China Sea

When Singapore became the ASEAN country coordinator in 2016, Chinese diplomats
called upon Singapore to “explain” China’s position on the SCS to other ASEAN
countries, or to ensure that the issue was not raised in ASEAN forums, or, if raised,
downplayed. Such demarches have been routine in all ASEAN countries for many years.

Simultaneously, messages targeting civil society and other sectors began to appear,
most prominently on social media. The aim was to instill a fatalistic acceptance of the
inevitability and desirability of a Chinese identity for multiracial Singapore and to get
Singaporeans—and not just Chinese Singaporeans—to pressure the government to
align Singapore’s national interests with China’s interests. In essence, they asserted:

e Unlike Lee Kuan Yew, who had died in 2015, the current Singapore leadership
under Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong did not know how to deal with China.
Relations were so much better then.

e Singapore has no territorial claims in the SCS, so why was it siding with the
United States against China?

e Surely, as a “Chinese country,” Singapore should “explain” China’s position to the
others or stay neutral.

It is difficult to pin down the precise origins of such narratives, but they closely
resemble arguments made in the Chinese media, in particular the Global Times.

Appendix 2

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020634
