How the Best Universities Inadvertently Ruin Our Schools 207

how to or care to think about their subject as anything other than a
research area. Making a real living with what they teach is not on any
faculty member’s mind. But students go to college precisely because
they think they will get a job afterward that college will have prepared
them for. It just isn’t true.

Teaching how to survive in the real world is simply not the job of
an Ivy League professor. This is too bad because there are professors
who really do like to teach.

One day I decided that I needed some news video from the ma-
jor networks for a project I wanted to start. I called the president of
Northwestern and asked him if he knew anyone at the networks, and
he told me that the former president of one of them was now on our
journalism faculty.

So I called him. He said he would help me but only on one condi-
tion. He wanted me to sit in on the class he taught. This was really an
odd request, and especially hard for me to agree to given how much I
hate classes and classrooms. But I really wanted that video.

Professors almost never ask other professors to watch them teach.
One reason is that they usually aren’t all that proud of their teaching
and don’t want to hear the criticism that inevitably follows. Also, it
really isn’t something they want to talk about even if they are good at
it. It has minor value in a professor’s world.

The class I attended was the most extraordinary I had ever wit-
nessed. This former head of a network previously had been head of the
news division. He had turned his class into an all-day simulation of a
network newsroom. Students were charged with preparing and produc-
ing the evening news. They got their information from various sources
that were used by the networks and prepared stories, played the roles
of on air reporter, news writer, anchor, camera person, editors, and so
on. They finished and went on air at 5.00. At 5:30 they watched to see
what the networks had done that day and compared and judged their
own success. The professor was there all day guiding them.

I thought this class was fantastic and said so. I then said it would
be a loss when he left Northwestern in a couple of years. He said he
had no intention of leaving, but I knew what he was doing would
never be tolerated.

Why not?

Let me count the reasons. First, he was teaching doing and prac-
tice, and not theory and analysis. While the rest of the world knows
that doing and practice is how you learn, this is the exact opposite of

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023947
