OUP CORRECTED PROOF - FINAL, 10/9/2014, SPi

xl The Crooked Course

conflicts. These heroic attempts, facilitated by President Bill Clinton and his team,
created a crisis of expectations, leading to the second Intifada and violent confrontation
between Israelis and Palestinians, with tragic loss of life on both sides. This illustrates a
fundamental dilemma in the choice between a gradualist and a totalist approach.
Totalism’s “all or nothing” approach is inherently risky. When it backfires, it easily
leads to a relapse into violence. Gradualism is less spectacular and appealing, with its
incremental and long-term approach. However, it is precisely these characteristics
which make it less risky, and more successful under some circumstances.

While totalism failed in 2000, with tragic consequences, it nevertheless broke down a
number of taboos, such as addressing explicitly the partition of Jerusalem and the issue
of Palestinian refugees.

ON PART V: ISRAELI AND PALESTINIAN
DOMESTIC DOCUMENTS

Part V seeks to provide a fuller context to the quest for peace in the Middle East. All
politics are local, and the Arab-Israeli conflict typifies this axiom. The ability of
negotiators to come to conclusions is only half the story. Documents such as the
original Palestinian National Charter or Israel’s Declaration of Independence shaped
attitudes, policies, and action on both sides.

Furthermore, the Part includes important policy statements that signal revisions of
previous policies such as Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Salam Fayyad’s vision
for a new Palestinian state. In August 2009, Fayyad introduced the “Program of the
Thirteenth Government” (the Fayyad Plan), which established a path to develop a
functional Palestinian state within a two-year time frame. The blueprint sought to
establish and improve governing institutions, end Palestinian economic dependence on
Israel, and enhance overall infrastructure. It was a move to create a de facto Palestinian
state within the existing Palestinian territory, regardless of any formal recognition of
such an entity. Fayyad sought proactive steps to “end the occupation, despite the
occupation”. He stressed it was not meant as a unilateral declaration of statehood.

Indeed, substantial developments did take place during Prime Minister Fayyad’s
tenure. In 2011, both the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund made
statements that the Palestinian Authority was capable of running the economy of an
independent state, and that it was on track to developing the necessary functions of a
state.

The Middle East peace process continues to run its crooked course. There is no quick
fix. Yet, as this volume demonstrates, many brave attempts have been made to bring
peace to this troubled region.

By compiling annotated documents related to the quest for peace in the Middle East,
a useful record and reference tool are created. Our hope is also that this volume will
inspire future students, analysts, policy makers, and negotiators to learn from, and
draw on, the experiences of the past.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023172
