22

GENERAL KELLY

n August 4, the president and key members of the West Wing left for Trump’s golf
() club in Bedminster. The new chief of staff, General Kelly, was in tow, but the
president’s chief strategist, Steve Bannon, had been left behind. Trump was grouchy about
the planned seventeen-day trip, bothered by how diligently his golf dates were being
clocked by the media. So this was now dubbed a “working” trip—another piece of Trump
vanity that drew shrugs, eye rolling, and head shaking from a staff that had been charged
with planning events that looked like work even as they were instructed to leave yawning
expanses of time for golf.

During the president’s absence, the West Wing would be renovated—Trump, the
hotelier and decorator, was “disgusted” by its condition. The president did not want to
move over to the nearby Executive Office Building, where the West Wing business would
temporarily be conducted—and where Steve Bannon sat waiting for his call to go to
Bedminster.

He was about to leave for Bedminster, Bannon kept telling everyone, but no invitation
came. Bannon, who claimed credit for bringing Kelly into the administration in the first
place, was unsure where he stood with the new chief. Indeed, the president himself was
unsure about where he himself stood; he kept asking people if Kelly liked him. More
generally, Bannon wasn’t entirely clear what Kelly was doing, other than his duty. Where
exactly did the new chief of staff fit in Trumpworld?

While Kelly stood somewhere right of center on the political spectrum and had been a
willing tough immigration enforcer at Homeland Security, he was not anywhere near so
right as Bannon or Trump. “He’s not hardcore” was Bannon’s regretful appraisal. At the
same time, Kelly was certainly not close in any way to the New York liberals in the White
House. But politics was not his purview. As director of Homeland Security he had
watched the chaos in the White House with disgust and thought about quitting. Now he
had agreed to try to tame it. He was sixty-seven, resolute, stern, and grim. “Does he ever
smile?” asked Trump, who had already begun to think that he had somehow been tricked
into the hire.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020101
