ERSON

sks.
‘n replies. “He said that a very

yer?”
young. Fourteen, fifteen years

nent, makes a few scratches in

. what we can do with that for .

sing journalist will put enough
f the picture. Sooner oF later,
it. Maybe a cop’s girlfriend gets
rifriend mentions it to her hus-
ylfing buddy in turn. Maybe the

off the rez, blitzed off those mat-
h Grill.

s talk. At that point, Chief Reit-
der —with Epstein on one side,
chief taking flak from all sides.

Reiter’s investigation, the press

eep it that way.
pieces of the puzzle keep falling

FirtuHy Ricw

On September 11, a young woman named Alison gets pulled
over by the police.* She’s carrying a small amount of marijuana.
The patrol officer handcuffs her and puts her in the back of his
vehicle. But Alison’s been in the back of a police car before, and
she’s cocky and canny enough to pivot the conversation away
from the dime bag she’s been busted with. She tells the officer a
remarkable story about an older man engaging in sexual activi-
ties with high school girls. Alison knows about it firsthand, she
says. She's been going to the house on El Brillo Way since she
was sixteen.

At first the cop’s skeptical. He hasn’t heard about the investi-
gation into Jeffrey Epstein’s affairs. And, after all, Alison is a
burnout. But back at the station, he finds out that Alison has not
been bullshitting him.

The investigation is real.

Alison’s name and cell phone number match up with messages
that have been pulled from Epstein’s trash. Instead of copping to
a misdemeanor, she becomes another Jane Doe in the case that
Chief Reiter’s colleague, Detective Joe Recarey, is building against
Jeffrey Epstein.

The story Alison ends up telling is extremely disturbing.

Like Mary, she says, she was recruited in high school. She
tells cops that Epstein would call her his “number one girl” —
although, she suspects, there were many others.

Recarey takes her statement. In the excerpts that follow
(transcribed from a tape recording made by the Palm Beach

police), D stands for “Detective Recarey,” and V stands for
“victim.”

eee

q * Alison’s name, some identifying details, and dialogue have been changed.

37

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019153
