NAUTIL.US | TEXT SETS

really strange gene mutation that was completely inex-
plicable.” She says it has been a hard disease to study,
partially because the implicated protein is unstable
and partially because it was a rarity among the orphan
diseases. When it comes to funding, calpainopathy
has been overshadowed by other forms of muscular
dystrophy. “Muscle studies have been underfunded
forever and certainly a rare disease like 2a especially
underfunded,” Spencer says.

In 2010, Wrubel formed the nonprofit Coalition to
Cure Calpain 3. In the quest for a cure, she says, “It’s
a matter of patients taking charge of their diagnosis.”
She reached out to other sufferers via Facebook, and
some donated money. She partnered up with two other
nonprofits that had raised funds on their own, both
started by those afflicted with Type 2a. So far Wrubel’s
efforts have gathered close to half a million dollars.
With that money, she has funded a project with Louis
Kunkel, professor of genetics and pediatrics at Boston
Children’s Hospital, one of the nation’s key muscular
dystrophy researchers.

Her coalition also organized a conference to bring
calpamopathy researchers together, including Spen-
cer. Years earlier, in 2005, Spencer made a significant
breakthrough. She discovered that calpainopathy,
unlike more common forms of muscular dystrophy,
was not a weakening of the muscle but a growth prob-
lem—muscle forms, but fails to grow because of a
missing protein. It is different from other muscular
dystrophies in which the lack of the protern complex,
dystrophin, damages muscle membranes. “With cal-
painopathy, the muscles lack the growth signal,” she
says. “It’s not transmitted properly.” That difference
makes a drug cure more possible. “I think this is going
to be the easiest muscular dystrophy to cure,” she says.

Encouraged by the promise, the Coalition to Cure
Calpain 3 gave Spencer’s lab a $260,000 grant to
investigate how to circumvent the signaling problem
and come up with a drug to fix it. But because the
United States Food and Drug Administration already
has a library of approved compounds that stimulate
cell growth in muscle, Spencer’s team may arrive at
a solution sooner. With the help of the coalition’s
money, her lab is now plowing through the thousands
of existing compounds, choosing those fit for testing.
“T think it will be five years betore we start thinking

35

about clinical trials,” Spencer says—and then another
five years before the drugs can be commercially avail-
able, she estimates.

Wrubel’s coalition intends to get pharmaceutical
companies interested, too. “Many pharmaceutical com-
panies see treating orphan diseases as a way to increase
profits,’ Wrubel says. Her husband, Lee, adds, “The
whole model for big pharmaceutical companies going
forward 1s different. There is too little in the big phar-
maceutical pipeline, and they’re looking to feed that
beast as much as possible.” A 2012 Thomson Reuters
study found that drug companies stand to profit from
orphan drugs because, compared to drugs for common
afflictions, they often have shorter and less expensive
clinical trials, with more success. Spencer says a drug
for calpamnopathy, for instance, would also be useful
for patients with Lou Gehrig’s Disease and bed rest
patients, as it would help arrest the loss of bone and
muscle mass. Wrubel hopes to bring Cydan Develop-
ment, a venture-capital backed orphan drug developer,
to their upcoming fall conference in the Netherlands.

As for the Topics, they were excited to learn about
Wrubel from Nautilus. Ivana recently connected with
Wrubel through Facebook. “I only talked with her a Iit-
tle bit, but she seems ambitious and driven,” Ivana says.
“Definitely not someone who 1s going to sit around and
wait for something to happen. Definitely inspiring. And
the possibility that something might help in any way is a
good thing to hear, for sure.” Ivana says she now wants
to get involved and advocate for her own disease. “I def-
initely want to do something,” she says, and Wrubel’s
coalition “would be a good place to start.” ©

jude isabella is a science writer based in Victoria, Brit-
ish Columbia. Her new book, Salmon, A Scientific Memoir, will be

teleased next year.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015495
