7/13/06 PALM BEACH POLICE ae Page: 66
9227255 Incident Report Program: CMS301L ~

. I located
and informed her that I was
investigating a case against Jeffrey Epstein and knew she had been at
the house. ae started to cry and advised she had put that part
of her life behind her. I explained that although she is seventeen
years old I needed to inform her parents that she would be
interviewed. She provided her home telephone number. I attempted
contact and left voice mail messages at the house to speak with her
parents.

Det. Caristo and I then located[L_ —S— J at her residence located
at in West Palm Beach. I attempted to interview her
about Jeffrey Epstein. She advised she is so in love with Jeff
Epstein and would do anything for him. She further explained that she
would not speak with us about him either negative or positive. She
asked us to leave her property. I informed her that although she did
not wish to speak with us, I had sufficient information at this point
in the investigation to know she was at Epstein's house and provided
girls to Epstein to work. I also explained that prior to our arrival
at her residence I had telephone contact with her father,

who was told she would be interviewed. is
currently seventeen years old and as a juvenile, parental notification
would be required. We then left the area and returned to the police
. Station.

While at the police station, I left another telephone message for
a fe: began an analysis of MN Cellular
telephone. The telephone number Po —*diS assigned to =i

QM and the financially responsible party 1s Jeffrey Epstein of 457
Madison Ave. in New York City, New York. The time frame which was
subpoenaed was September 2005, through October 2005. There were
eighty seven pages of calls made either to the cell phone or from the
cell phone. The local (561) numbers were analyzed. A spread sheet
was prepared and placed into the attachment file of who was called.

T located the

The unknown numbers were researched using FoneFinder.com and subpoenas
were requested to determine subscriber information. This was done to
identify additional victims or witnesses. The analysis revealed that
WE bed called the victim/witnesses frequently when Epstein was in
the Town of Palm Beach to work. This confirms what the girls
interviewed had previously stated. [RRR would notify them when
Epstein was in town and their willingness to work. The CD was placed
into evidence.

Investigation Continues.

KAEKKKEKAKREKEEKEKAEKKEKEKEKKEKEKER NARRATIVE HZ RREKRRKKEKE RARER AER KR REKKEREES

Reported By: RECAREY, JOSEPH 1/03/06
Entered By.: ALTOMARO, NICKIE A. 1/03/06

On December 29, 2005, I received a facsimile from National Compliance

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019019
