4.2.12
WC: 191694

Our wives—most of whom had known us as adolescents—agreed that we had been pretty nerdy
back then, but they prided themselves on having seen through the external faults that had
relegated us to C lists. You don't need to buy the 50's in a store, one spouse quipped, you guys
are walking memorabilia. Another turned an old phrase: I was able to take my husband out of
the 50's, but I can't take the 50's out of him.

The early 1950s—my high school years from September 1951 to June 1955—were not my finest
hours. Yet they were as formative as any other period, though the formative dynamic was mostly
reactive. I think about them often. My wife says I am obsessed with nostalgia for my troubled
adolescent past.

Perhaps that is because I would like to relive them—both to regain my vigorous youth and to use
it in a more productive manner. I’m not sure. But I am sure that my early teens laid a firm
foundation for my very successful late teens—my college years at Brooklyn between the ages of
16 and 20. I had something to prove, and I went about proving it with a vengeance.

My parents were hoping I would make a B average in college, which was very respectable in
those days before grade inflation. They didn’t want me to get A’s because A students became
teachers, and they certainly didn’t want me to get C’s, as I had in high school. I could never
satisfy them. I went straight from C’s to A’s, almost never getting a B in anything. I really
blossomed in college, though I didn’t do anything very different from what I had done in high
school. I was a “smart aleck” and a “wise guy,” but these qualities were appreciated and
rewarded at Brooklyn College, while at Yeshiva High School they were punished. Whenever I
came up with anything original in my high school religious classes, my rabbis would say: “If your
idea is so good, then the ancient rabbis, who were so much smarter than you, would have came
up with it first. If those rabbis, who were so much smarter than you, didn’t come up with the idea
first, then it can’t be any good.” End of discussion. It was all different at college.

‘4 Salesmen at the nostalgia shops tell me that men in their 40's and 50's
experience the need to collect their adolescence more than women do. When I
see a guy with a goofy looking grin dragging a couple of teen-age kids through my
door on a weekend, I know my summer vacation will be paid for, one shop
owner told me. But if he's got his wife with him, he'll probably buy just one

sensible memento for his office.

38

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017125
