online research to respond to journalist queries. Done properly, this will get you featured in media
ranging from small local publications to the New York Times and ABC News.

Becoming a recognized expert isn’t difficult, so I want to remove that barrier now.

I am not recommending pretending to be something you’re not. I can’t! “Expert” is nebulous media-
speak and so overused as to be indefinable. In modern PR terms, proof of expertise in most fields is
shown with group affiliations, client lists, writing credentials, and media mentions, not /Q points or
Ph.D.s.

Presenting the truth in the best light, but not fabricating it, is the name of the game.
See you on CNN.

=» Q&A: QUESTIONS AND ACTIONS

E.. this hands-on chapter, the Q&A is simple. In fact, it’s more like a Q.

The question is, “Did you read the chapter and follow the directions?” If not, do it! Instead of the
usual Q&A, the end of this chapter and the following two will feature more extensive resources for
taking the action steps described in detail in the text.

= COMFORT CHALLENGE

Find Yoda (3 Days)

Call at least one potential superstar mentor per day for three days. E-mail only after attempting a phone
call. I recommend calling before 8:30 A.M. or after 6:00 P.M. to reduce run-ins with secretaries and other
gatekeepers. Have a single question in mind, one that you have researched but have been unable to
answer yourself. Shoot for “A” players—CEOs, ultrasuccessful entrepreneurs, famous authors, etc.—and
don’t aim low to make it less frightening. Use www.contactanycelebrity.com if need be, and base your
script on the following.

Unknown answerer: This is Acme Inc. [or “the office of Mentor X’’].

You: Hi, this is Tim Ferriss calling for John Grisham, please 24

Answerer: May I ask what this is regarding?

You: Sure. I know this might sound a bit odd,32 but I’m a first-time author and just read his interview in

Time Out New York 22 I'm a longtime*+ fan and have finally built up the courage to®= call him for one
specific piece of advice. It wouldn’t take more than two minutes of his time. Is there any way you can

help me get through to him?2I really, really appreciate whatever you can do.

Answerer: Hmmm ... Just a second. Let me see if he’s available. [two minutes later] Here you go. Good
luck. [rings to another line]

John Grisham: John Grisham here.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013901
