While populism is on the rise and the support
for such parties has increased, we do not think that
these movements will threaten the viability of the
Eurozone in 2017. In fact, in response to Brexit,
we believe that Eurozone policymakers will take a
hard line with Britain to make sure other countries
do not think it realistic to manage an exit that
retains all the benefits while shouldering none of
the costs.

Geopolitical Hot Spots Get Hotter

We rely on the insights of external experts

to formulate our geopolitical views. They

include members of prominent research groups,
think tanks and universities as well as former
government officials, both in the US and abroad.
So informed, we highlight activity in North Korea,
Russia and the Middle East among our group of
risks with high probability but uncertain impact.

North Korean Belligerence Continues: North
Korea’s unpredictable and belligerent military
activities have continued unabated. In early 2016,
North Korea announced that it had tested its first
hydrogen bomb.” By the end of 2016, North Korea
had conducted nine other military actions, including
the launch of a ballistic missile from a submarine,”
launches of long-range ballistic missiles toward
Japan“ and additional nuclear tests.

We can only expect further tests in 2017, given
the estimates by a Council on Foreign Relations
task force chaired by retired Admiral Michael
Mullen that North Korea may have between 13
and 21 nuclear weapons as of June 2016.%

Even more troubling is a pattern highlighted by
David Gordon, adjunct senior fellow at the Center
for a New American Security. Gordon points out
that North Korea makes a habit of testing new
presidents, as it did in May 2009, early in President
Obama’s first term, and again in February 2013
after South Korean President Park Geun-hye was
inaugurated.“

While populism is on the rise and
the support for such parties has

increased, we do not think that these
movements will threaten the viability

of the Eurozone in 2017.

The Wall Street Journal reports that the
“Obama administration considers North Korea
to be the top national security priority for the
incoming administration.”® Nuclear weapons
already in place, long-range ballistic missile
capabilities in development, and an unpredictable
and provocative leader are a deadly combination.
North Korea will remain a serious risk for the
foreseeable future.

Russian Adventurism Intensifies: While attention
has been focused on Russia’s adventurism in Syria,
the frozen conflict in Ukraine remains intact, with
increasing violations of the Minsk agreements

of 2014 and 2015.° Since the first agreement

in September 2014, nearly 10,000 people have
been killed,®’ and most recently, Russian-backed
separatists attempted to break through Ukrainian
government lines.® In response to such lack of
progress and concerns about further Russian
aggression in the region, the heads of North
Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO} member
countries agreed, at a summit in Warsaw in

July 2016, to deploy as many as 4,000 troops

to the Baltic States and Poland in early 2017 as

a deterrent to further adventurism in Eastern
Europe.” The risks of accidents and intentional
skirmishes will inevitably rise.

Furthermore, the direction of foreign policy
in the region under a Trump administration is
uncertain given President-elect Trump’s July 2016
statement that the US would not automatically
defend the Baltic States.”

Russia is likely to stay involved in the Middle
East as well. Russia has been a constructive force
with respect to the fight against the Islamic State of
Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and a stabilizing force
with respect to keeping Syrian President Bashar
al-Assad in place in the absence of any attractive
alternatives. Syria would not have made as much
progress in pushing back ISIL and the rebels
without Russian air power support. Russia has also
hosted a meeting in Moscow with Iran
and Turkey to work toward an accord
to end the war in Syria7\—a six-year war
that has resulted in 400,000” to 470,000
fatalities’? and an estimated economic
cost of $250 billion to $275 billion.”
Given the prospects of continued
geopolitical turmoil in the region,
Russian involvement in the Middle East
will not be reduced anytime soon.

Outlook | Investment Strategy Group 29

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014562
