He was the de facto crafter of policy and speeches, and yet up until now he had largely
only taken dictation.

Most problematic of all, Hicks and Miller, along with everyone on the Jarvanka side,
were now directly connected to actions involved in the Russian investigation or efforts to
spin it, deflect it, or, indeed, cover it up. Miller and Hicks had drafted—or at least typed—
Kushner’s version of the first letter written at Bedminster to fire Comey. Hicks had joined
with Kushner and his wife to draft on Air Force One the Trump-directed press release
about Don Jr. and Kushner’s meeting with the Russians in Trump Tower.

In its way, this had become the defining issue for the White House staff: who had been
in what inopportune room. And even beyond the general chaos, the constant legal danger
formed part of the high barrier to getting people to come work in the West Wing.

Kushner and his wife—now largely regarded as a time bomb inside the White House—
were spending considerable time on their own defense and battling a sense of mounting
paranoia, not least about what members of the senior staff who had already exited the
West Wing might now say about them. Kushner, in the middle of October, would,
curiously, add to his legal team Charles Harder, the libel lawyer who had defended both
Hulk Hogan in his libel suit against Gawker, the Internet gossip site, and Melania Trump
in her suit against the Daily Mail. The implied threat to media and to critics was clear.
Talk about Jared Kushner at your peril. It also likely meant that Donald Trump was yet
managing the White House’s legal defense, slotting in his favorite “tough guy” lawyers.

Beyond Donald Trump’s own daily antics, here was the consuming issue of the White
House: the ongoing investigation directed by Robert Mueller. The father, the daughter, the
son-in-law, his father, the extended family exposure, the prosecutor, the retainers looking
to save their own skins, the staffers who Trump had rewarded with the back of his hand—
it all threatened, in Bannon’s view, to make Shakespeare look like Dr. Seuss.

Everyone waited for the dominoes to fall, and to see how the president, in his fury,
might react and change the game again.

7 OK Ok

Steve Bannon was telling people he thought there was a 33.3 percent chance that the
Mueller investigation would lead to the impeachment of the president, a 33.3 percent
chance that Trump would resign, perhaps in the wake of a threat by the cabinet to act on
the Twenty-Fifth Amendment (by which the cabinet can remove the president in the event
of his incapacitation), and a 33.3 percent chance that he would limp to the end of his term.
In any event, there would certainly not be a second term, or even an attempt at one.

“He’s not going to make it,” said Bannon at the Breitbart Embassy. “He’s lost his
stuff.”

Less volubly, Bannon was telling people something else: he, Steve Bannon, was going

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020117
