rTERSON

anted to remove Weiss from the
d way to do it.

Recarey met with ASA Lanna
r boss, Barry Krischer, had asked
and jury. Recarey told Belohlavek
st warrants for Epstein, Sarah Kel-
Beach PD had finished its investi-
d had been waiting since then for
-d her once more to issue the war-
ined, saying that the original offer
ld lawyer had been resubmitted to
»ply came, she would call.

, Recarey received several calls
a that he was being followed bya
-tailed so aggressively that other
road. Recarey ran the plates and
tered to one Zachary Bechard of

ate eye.

Im Beach,” says Tim Malloy, who 7

+ in South Florida at the time.

ht around the time that Michael q
iarry Krischer to recuse himself j
know what Epstein looked like, ©
ures taken by the British tabloids,

ew first broke. But we didn’t haved
1 have was a contact in the hangar

4

a
4)
a

fl
ay

Firtuy Ricu

“I don’t know how much you know about Palm Beach Inter-

national Airport. It’s the kind of place that has private hangars,
valet parking, and waiting lounges that look as chic as anything
youll see in Manhattan. It’s an airport for the rich, basically.
Saudi princes, heads of state. Powerful men who value their pri-
vacy. You can bring limousines onto the tarmac. And we found
out Epstein was very secretive about his dealings there. He didn’t
want anyone to know the tail numbers on his planes.
“But our contact didn't like Epstein. And he was horrified by
how young the girls around Epstein were. So thanks to him, we
had the 727’s tail number, and thanks to one other source—
someone | won't say too much about here—we had Epstein’s
flight plan for a certain trip he was making. We knew he was
going to land at the airport. And so our producer climbed into
the station’s traffic helicopter and told the pilot to hover at five
hundred feet a quarter mile south of the field.

“Our cameraman had a telephoto lens. The idea was to get a
tight shot, on video, of Epstein deplaning. And for a moment we
did get the shot: Epstein, with the collar of his cashmere coat
flipped up over his neck, about to run down the steps into a cart
that was waiting for him.

“Then he saw our helicopter, with the station’s markings.

“I was doing a live voice-over on Epstein’s arrival. It was the

q first video anyone had on him up to that point. But Epstein had

_ tun back onto the plane. Then, during the next commercial
_ break, my producer told me through my headpiece: ‘Jeffrey
4 Epstein wants us to stop taking his picture. In fact, he wants to
talk to you.

q “The cameraman kept rolling. And eventually Epstein got
out, got into a car with tinted windows, and was driven over the

177

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010518

