Bannon went, so went the virulence of right-wing digital media. Despite his apparent
obsession with the “fake news” put out by the New York Times, the Washington Post, and
CNN, for the president the threat of fake news was actually greater on the right. Though
he would never call out fake news on Fox, Breitbart, and the others, these outlets—which
could conceivably spew a catchall of conspiracies in which a weak Trump sold out to a
powerful establishment—were potentially far more dangerous than their counterparts on
the left.

Bannon, too, was seen to be rectifying an earlier bureaucratic mistake. Where initially
he had been content to be the brains of the operation—confident that he was vastly smarter
than everybody else (and, indeed, few tried to challenge him for that title)—and not staff
up, now he was putting his organization and loyalists firmly in place. His off-balance-
sheet communications staff—Bossie, Lewandowski, Jason Miller, Sam Nunberg (even
though he had long fallen out with Trump himself), and Alexandra Preate—formed quite a
private army of leakers and defenders. What’s more, whatever breach there had been
between Bannon and Priebus came smoothly together over their mutual loathing of Jared
and Ivanka. The professional White House was united against the amateur family White
House.

Adding to Bannon’s new bureaucratic advantage, he had maximum influence on the
staffing of the new firewall team, the lawyers and comm staff who would collectively
become the Lanny Davis of the Trump defense. Unable to hire prestige talent, Bannon
turned to one of the president’s longtime hit-man lawyers, Marc Kasowitz. Bannon had
previously bonded with Kasowitz when the attorney had handled a series of near-death
problems on the campaign, including dealing with a vast number of allegations and legal
threats from an ever growing list of women accusing Trump of molesting and harassing
them.

On May 31, the Bannon firewall plan went into effect. Henceforth, all discussion
related to Russia, the Mueller and congressional investigations, and other personal legal
issues would be entirely handled by the Kasowitz team. The president, as Bannon
described the plan in private and as he urged his boss, would no longer be addressing any
of these areas. Among the many, many efforts to force Trump into presidential mode, this
was the latest.

Bannon then installed Mark Corallo, a former Karl Rove communications staffer, as
the firewall spokesperson. He was also planning to put in Bossie and Lewandowski as part
of the crisis management team. And at Bannon’s prompting, Kasowitz attempted to further
insulate the president by giving his client a central piece of advice: send the kids home.

Bannon was indeed back. It was his team. It was his wall around the president—one
that he hoped would keep Jarvanka out.

Bannon’s formal moment of being back was marked by a major milestone. On June 1,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020063
