in nature need to be envvyrpted so that the enemy cannot read. this includes inner signals that if you
are aware of , can give you up to your predator. so signals from the nose , my conjecture is that each
person has its own enxruption de encyption algorithm builtin. fyi having dinnner with Jin Watson.

On Fri, Jan 20, 2017 at 1:28 AM, David Grosof ~~ wrote:

At 10:13 PM 01/19/17, you wrote:

all good.A A thx.A A areas of interest,A A A A distribuitionsA innature.. AAAA 2
deception.A 3.A sleep.4.A power. 5 money.A 6 music and the brain. 7 , signal intellignece in the
biologocal systems

Excellent alignment with some of my interests or those of people I like and think are smart!
The rest of the truncated message has been sent.

1. What's been stimulating as a source of good questions for the distributions in nature issue?

7. Signal intelligence in biol. systems seems to cover all of neurophysiology: Jonathan Victor, whom
you met a few years ago in your office, is powerfully thoughtful on the issues of neural coding. Are
there specific examples that have stimulated you to better questions or turned your thinking around?

6. Are you aware of apps that purport to play music to enhance productivity and focus on tasks at
hand? My buddy Reese Jones has backed that; he has a fascinating set of beliefs and projects around
what may soon be understood as consciousness hacking. He's on the board of Singularity University
as one of the founders. (His father was a pioneer UCSF MD researcher of hallucinogens, I believe!)

More to come in a day or so.

Thanks!

You're up late or you're not so east of my SF location!
David

PS How to trade the Trump-GOP demolition of the welfare state, erratic elevation of risks of trade
disruptions and war? Has anyone from the rational center or left given thought to how to respond to a
national emergency to cope with a kakistocratic seizure of emergency powers? The Patriot Act was on
a ‘shelf’ as you know, ready to be used. What should the better folks in this country have at hand if,
say, a port is subject to a radiological attack of unknown origin?

On Fri, Jan 20, 2017 at 1:07 AM, David Goof (iii wrote:

Dear Jeffrey,

A Congratulations on another spin around the sun.

A I would like to offer you a birthday present: my best efforts for a few hours on something where I
might be able to contribute either to making something good happen for you or help you prevent the
bad.

We haven't talked much at all for quite some time, so I'm not sure of the nature of your current
interests but here are some of mine, where I feel I either have some special capability or can get access
to those who have such.

* open science -- open access publishing, data publishing, and open culture institutions considered as a
network with largely consistent and mutually reinforcing values: Public Library of Science (PLoS),
Wikipedia, Internet Archive, Electronic Frontier Foundation, and Creative Commons, along with allied
US, UK, European governmental and NGO funding sources and other institutions.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025181
