Senegal's Democratic Backslide

2015 was a banner year for democracy in Africa. Nigeria, the largest country on the continent, had a
democratic election, and even more impressively, had its first ever peaceful transition of power when sitting
President Goodluck Jonathan transferred power to Muhammadu Buhari. Former President Jonathan conceded
and famously declared, Nobody's ambition is worth the blood of any Nigerian. My last piece for The Hill
was titled, ‘Will Guinea's experiment in democracy succeed? It is with great joy that I can report that it

did! Guinea's first democratically elected President, Alpha Conde, won his reelection campaign in a peaceful
election that was internationally monitored in which the Guinean electorate reaffirmed its commitment to a
democracy.

Despite these victories for democracy in a continent in which IJ dedicated a great deal of my life's work, Iam
deeply troubled by developments over the last few weeks. Earlier this week Uganda President Yoweri
Museveni extended his thirty year rule and won his fifth consecutive election which international observers
said was marred with intimidation and impropriety. Shortly after the election Museveni, who scrapped
constitutional term limits a decade ago, had his political rival, Kizza Besigye arrested and detained for
protesting the election results. Of course we have come to expect these actions from Museveni in

Uganda. What I am even most troubled by is what is taking place in Senegal, which was once the pillar of
democracy in Africa.

When Abdoulaye Wade was democratically elected as President of Senegal in 2000, it was a huge step

forward for democracy in Africa. President Wade adopted a new constitution and instituted term limits for the
first time in Senegalese history. In 2012 President Wade was defeated in a democratic election by his Prime
Minister Macky Sall. The United States and the larger international community praised Wade for his quick
concession and praised peaceful transition of power. President Macky Sall affirmed his commitment to
democracy announcing that he would shorten term limits from 7 to 5 years. President Obama visited Senegal in
June of 2013 and praised President Sall for his commitment to democracy in shortening the presidential
mandate and praised the country's rule of law.

Unfortunately in the past few years much has changed and we are witnessing a backslide in what was once
Africa's brightest democratic success story. When the opposition party, the Senegalese Democratic Party,
designated former President Abdoulaye Wade' son, former Minister Karim Wade, as their candidate for the next
presidential election; President Sall had Karim Wade arrested and detained. President Macky Sall then
reestablished a special court by presidential decree that had been abolished by Senegalese law and not heard a
case in thirty years. This newly established special court sentenced Mr. Wade to six years in prison. He remains
in prison today, sentenced without appeal. In April 2015, the United Nations Working Group of Arbitrary
Detention determined that Mr. Wade was arbitrarily arrested and that his detention was in violation of
international law. Last month the UN Working Group reaffirmed its finding and called on President Sall's
regime to release Karim Wade and comply with international law. Sall has ignored the UN Working Groups
request.

Last week the backslide continued even further as President Macky Sall reneged on his commitment to shorten
term limits. Instead of holding elections next year, after five years per his commitment, he announced that he
would serve until 2019. He claims that this decision was based on the opinion - just an opinion - of the
Constitutional Council that he had himself sought.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026837
