to others are weakening and to motivate
the repair and maintenance of the
connections to others that are needed for
our health and well being as for the
survival of our genes (27). Physical pain
is an aversive signal that evolved to
motivate one to take action that
minimizes damage to one’s body.
Loneliness is an aversive signal that
evolved to motivate one to take action
that minimizes damage to one’s social

body.

People differ dispositionally in
their sensitivity to the pain of social
disconnection (1.e., feelings of
loneliness; 28) just as people differ in
sensitivity to physical pain. Ostracism
or objective isolation in most species is
associated with an early death (29). In
humans, the chronic feeling of social
isolation, even when the person remains
among the protective embrace of others,
is associated with significant mental and
physical disorders (30). Chronic hunger,
thirst, and pain can also have deleterious
effects for, like loneliness, their adaptive
value lies in their effects as acute
signals, not as chronic conditions. The
opposite of feeling hunger, thirst, pain,
or loneliness is feeling normal, and this
is the state in which most people exist
most of the time.

The social connections formed
by humans need not be based on genetic
similarities. The human species has
evolved the capacity for and motivation
to form relationships not only with other
individuals but also with groups (e.g., a
Chicago Cubs or Boston Red Sox fan)
and nonhuman entities (e.g., through
anthropomorphism, 3/). Team spirit and
school spirit are familiar notions, and
although team or school spirit refers to
an invisible influence, it is an invisible
influence that is no less open to rigorous
scientific inquiry than are the invisible

Page |26

influences of gravity or magnetic flux.
In the cases of team and school spirit,
this influence represents a specific form
of social connection between an
individual and an emergent structure.

Perceived social connections are
abstractions that can transcend time and
space. People may feel a connection
with their ancestors or family heritage
even if they are the only remaining
descendant, just as people can perceive
personal connections with pets, cars,
television characters, celebrities, and
unseen spiritual entities with whom they
do not actually interact. A potent
component of spirituality (that does not
depend on a specific religion) is the
feeling of connection and purpose that
come from forming a relationship with a
higher being. A simple byproduct of our
selfish genes and social brains may be
our search for meaning in and
connection with broader organizations or
beings.

Conclusion

In 1939, the astrophysicist Sir Arthur
Eddington published a book entitled The
Philosophy of physical science (32). In it he
describes a hypothetical scientist who sought
to determine the size of the various fish in the
sea. The scientist began by weaving a 2-inch
mesh net and setting sail across the seas,
repeatedly sampling catches and carefully
measuring, recording, and analyzing the
results of each catch. After extensive
sampling, the scientist concluded that there
were no fish smaller than two inches in the
sea. The moral of Sir Eddington's analogy is
twofold. First, scientific instruments are
shaped by people’s intuitive theories of the
phenomena to be investigated. Second, once
developed, scientific expectations and
instruments shape data and theory in ways
more powerfully and fundamentally than are
often appreciated.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021272
