With your full knowledge I paid out 8 mil to my staff before june, . soi guess I can safely assume that after
consideration of all the things I did for the entire past year separate and apart from your unique free after
care concept. , what you thought was ultimately fair was the contribution of 5 million toa foundation
and a total of 2 million dollars to me.

Date: Fri, Oct 16, 2015 at 1:08 PM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella pe

I think you should consider the fact that your family office will be the most central component of what you
leave to your children , wife heirs. it is the core of your assets. your art might be sold. your houses may lie
empty, the apollo stock could be sold. you will pass on your office , . it will be the primary player in your
estate tax. probate, transition. Brad has taken it from aD minus toaC minus, If I were you I would set the
goal ofan A. just like your paintings. . Like a house you could attempt to renovate it. it will take more time
and money. or. inessence as I suggested in dec of 13, start from scratch. A financail head of

office. - brad could move to being richards replacment as trustee... barry cohen would be perfect but carries
the trustee taint now. . take a tax partner froma major firm. to replace joslin, cost 1+ mil . keep heather
and ssmantha. . bring in full time IT person. ASAP . your lighting contractor in your new townhouse has
better IT than your multi billlion dollar antique opersation. data breaches are not your concern. precision is. .
either re do the office layout . or get enterly new space. the proposals to focus on following on a monthly basis
the values of all your current investments is an example of misplaced prioirties. . Your office is the heart of
the familys financial life and temp future, it needs a heart operation

Date: Mon, Oct 19, 2015 at 5:10 PM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella

Radical but my preferred idea. . START from total scratch. there is absolutely nothing worth keeping in
your family office except for heather , nothing at all . ] remember when 1 bought my first house in order to
renovate and jack robertson said forget it. knock it down start again, I could n't believe it. but he was

right. Like your tax returns that were done in triplicate. TOM RICH ALAN. . tom and rich were not really
useful in the end. Alan was the only smart one. you should in my opinion Start a brand new office. hire

cfo. bring joe over. heather and samantha, run parallel for 6 months and close down the mess of elysium
forever. leave your kids a functioning operation professionally constructed and managed. NOT BY ME!!!
LAst nov i laid out priorities IT , being the first nothing as of today. _in July I said focus on airplane as a test
. to examine procedure and proficiency, so far mostly a waste of resources time people etc. Only last week
told debra owns 49 percent of plane. no IT to speak of. bens house unaccounted for. tax returns very

very sloppy, . boat still argued as third home. . pilots bonuses? , structure unkown by all. cash sitlling at the
same time loans outstanding.

Phaidon , looks like close to breakeven in a few years. others totally unknown. Query, do you really want
this? : Im not sure how you both want to have an investment office and have cash flow being eaten by
publishing and loans amounts outstanding increased by art. --interest rates will be going up.-. your plane will
cost 10 million to refinance - so will boat if sold next year-. art space and regan , both needs more cash. with
little return, taxes, art purchases. Part of radical solutition is to sell publishing.altogether. (are the children
really interested.). restrucuture plane from scratch. layers unncessary. simplify crazy structure s bank
accounts trading accounts accounts payble. credit cards. etc. The best way to wean yourself away from me
is to have someone else do the whole thing from scratch. . move brad to be the replacement for Richard. . he is
nice but this is not what he does. Him saying it is soooo fucked up to me , was only an echo of me sayint it to
you.

Subject:

To: Melanie Spine! is

as brad can attest , I spent time today with joslin, joe. etc. no question at all, a failed experiment. In the
words of a banker that made a call on your office. what happened? leon seems to have replaced Eillenn with a

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023358
