We felt like our sexuality wasn't for us. Or at least, that's how I felt.

Even though on the surface it looked like I was totally in charge of my sexual decisions,
there were social pressures and expectations that made me feel overwhelmed and
confused. Not always, and not all the time! But enough that there were plenty of times
that I just felt like all I wanted to do was stop and be done with it... take my body back
from a world that seemed intent on constantly telling me how I must look, how I must
dress, how I must have sex.

I've written about how much easier it was for me to learn how I ought to look and
perform while having sex, than it was for me to learn what I actually wanted from sex.
That, I think, is where the chastity urge came from for me. That, and the way I kept
finding myself making out with guys who I had zero interest in because it was too
awkward to say no. Or the way I didn't feel like I could decide not to have sex with my
boyfriends; not because I didn't think my boyfriend would listen if I said no, but because
his potentially hurt feelings seemed so much more important than my bodily preferences.

So many things about the way I was having sex seemed to have nothing to do with me.
And if sex had nothing to do with me... then why was I doing it? I guess I wanted to
reassure myself that I could take control of at least one thing: saying no.

Eventually, I got a better handle on my sexual preferences and began to learn how to talk
about them. It was a long process, and my sexual journey is far from over (yay!). There
were people who showed me what it meant to have a low-pressure sexual relationship;
there were people who made it easy for me to talk about sex; and there were other people
who made it easy for me to turn them down, sexually, which was just as important.

But one interesting thing during the beginning of my learning process... especially given
that I now really emphasize and encourage talking directly about sex... was that I felt like
a couple of my boyfriends really, really didn't want to talk about sex. And while
sometimes this was clearly terrible and toxic, sometimes it felt good. It felt safe. I wanted
to be sexual, but I also felt so much pressure to be sexual that it sometimes felt like a
huge relief to just... not worry about it.”

In retrospect, though, I think that the safety I felt when I didn't talk about sex with
certain partners was a mirage. It was a false safety, sustained by a carefully crafted
mutual fiction of the relationship. When we ended up talking about sex later, giving up
that safety” just made the conversation unnecessarily scary and weird. And the
independent illusions we each had about our sexual relationship flourished and grew
strong within our silence. Those illusions were so much harder to release after months of
self-reinforcement than they would have been if we'd dragged them into the light from
the beginning!

Occasionally, I wonder how it would have felt if I'd taken that deliberate year of chastity.
I wonder which of my early experiences would have changed; I wonder whether a year of
chastity would have made me feel more comfortable with my sexuality sooner. I'm very
happy with how I feel sexually now. I sometimes feel confused or overwhelmed, but I
think I'm okay at handling that and even talking about it. Yet I do wonder how it would
have felt to draw such a strong boundary; to say such a strong No to the world and its

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018517
