9.4 Naive Physics 167

when you figure out that you need to pressure the knife slightly harder when spreading peanut
butter rather than jelly, you’re not making this judgment using Newtonian physics or the
Navier-Stokes equations of fluid dynamics; you’re using heuristic patterns that you figured out
through experience. Maybe you figured out these patterns through experience spreading peanut
butter and jelly in particular. Or maybe you figured these heuristic patterns out before you ever
tried to spread peanut butter or jelly specifically, via just touching peanut butter and jelly to
see what they feel like, and then carrying out inference based on your experience manipulating
similar tools in the context of similar substances.
Other examples of similar “naive physics” patterns are easy to come by, e.g.

What goes up must come down.

A dropped object falls straight down.

A vacuum sucks things towards it.

Centrifugal force throws rotating things outwards.

An object is either at rest or moving, in an absolute sense.

Two events are simultaneous or they are not.

When running downhill, one must lift one’s knees up high.

When looking at something that you just barely can’t discern accurately, squint.

CONOR WN

Attempts to axiomatically formulate naive physics have historically come up short, and we
doubt this is a promising direction for AGI. However, we do think the naive physics literature
does a good job of identifying the various phenomena that the human mind’s naive physics deals
with. So, from the point of view of AGI environment design, naive physics is a useful source
of requirements. Ideally, we would like an AGI’s environment to support all the fundamental
phenomena that naive physics deals with.

We now describe some key aspects of naive physics in a more systematic manner. Naive
physics has many different formulations; in this section we draw heavily on [SC94], who divide
naive physics phenomena into 5 categories. Here we review these categories and identify a
number of important things that humanlike intelligent agents must be able to do relative to
each of them.

9.4.1 Objects, Natural Units and Natural Kinds

One key aspect of naive physics involves recognition of various aspects of objects, such as:

Recognition of objects amidst noisy perceptual data

Recognition of surfaces and interiors of objects

Recognition of objects as manipulable units

Recognition of objects as potential subjects of fragmentation (splitting, cutting) and of
unification (gluing, bonding)

Recognition of the agent’s body as an object, and as parts of the agent’s body as objects
6. Division of universe of perceived objects into “natural kinds”, each containing typical and
atypical instances

mw N

Gr

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013083
