seriously, and without a thought of any consequence here, were merely entertained
by the possibility of dirty tricks; (c) the three men were united in their plan to get rid
of Lewandowski—with Don Jr. as the hatchet man—and, as part of this unity,
Manafort and Kushner need to show up at Don Jr.’s silly meeting.

Whatever the reason for the meeting, no matter which of the above scenarios most
accurately describes how this comical and alarming group came together, a year later,
practically nobody doubted that Don Jr. would have wanted his father to know that he
seized the initiative.

“The chance that Don Jr. did not walk these jumos up to his father’s office on the
twenty-sixth floor is zero,” said an astonished and derisive Bannon, not long after the
meeting was revealed.

“The three senior guys in the campaign,” an incredulous Bannon went on, “thought it
was a good idea to meet with a foreign government inside Trump Tower in the conference
room on the twenty-fifth floor—with no lawyers. They didn't have any lawyers. Even if
you thought that this was not treasonous, or unpatriotic, or bad shit, and I happen to think
it’s all of that, you should have called the FBI immediately. Even if you didn’t think to do
that, and you’re totally amoral, and you wanted that information, you do it in a Holiday
Inn in Manchester, New Hampshire, with your lawyers who meet with these people and go
through everything and then they verbally come and tell another lawyer in a cut-out, and if
you've got something, then you figure out how to dump it down to Breitbart or something
like that, or maybe some other more legitimate publication. You never see it, you never
know it, because you don’t need to... . But that’s the brain trust that they had.”

All of the participants would ultimately plead that the meeting was utterly
inconsequential, whatever the hope for it might have been, and admit that it was hapless.
But even if that was true, a year later the revelation of the meeting had three profound and
probably transformational effects:

First, the constant, ever repeated denials about there having been no discussion
between campaign officials and the Russians connected to the Kremlin about the
campaign, and, indeed, no meaningful contact between campaign officials and the Russian
government, were exploded.

Second, the certainty among the White House staff that Trump himself would have not
only been apprised of the details of this meeting, but have met the principals, meant that
the president was caught out as a liar by those whose trust he most needed. It was another
inflection point between hunkered-in-the-bunker and signed-on-for-the-wild-ride, and get-
me-out-of-here.

Third, it was now starkly clear that everyone’s interests diverged. The fortunes of Don
Jr., Paul Manafort, and Jared Kushner hung individually in the balance. Indeed, the best
guess by many in the West Wing was that the details of the meeting had been leaked by

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020077
