14

those working for the harshest congressional critics of China’s crackdown. One trip in
December 1989 featured very heated debates with Chinese officials, especially after it

was announced that National Security Adviser Brent Scowcroft and Deputy Secretary of
State Lawrence Eagleburger were also in Beijing for talks with Chinese leaders and that
the two had made an earlier secret trip in July, soon after the crackdown. As the Bush
administration had publicly promised Congress that all such contacts would end, the staff
delegates’ anger at and criticism of China’s repression was compounded by their harsh
reaction to the Bush administration’s actions.

As US-China relations continued during a tumultuous post-Tiananmen crackdown period,
Congress played important roles on such key issues as the debate over most-favored nation
tariff treatment, the visit of Taiwan’s president to the United States in 1995, and the decision
to approve China’s entry into the World Trade Organization. The Chinese government
endeavored to build influence with and gain access to Congress by encouraging US
businesses to lobby Congress on China’s behalf and by continuing to receive member and
staff delegations in China.

Other entities in the Chinese official structure, including the Chinese Communist Party
and the Chinese military, at times attempted to gain access to Congress. The International
Department of the Chinese Communist Party engaged in growing exchanges with the
major American political parties on a party-to-party basis. A Chinese “united front”
organization, the Chinese Association for International Understanding (CAIFU), managed
some of these ensuing trips. Also involved was the China Association for International
Friendly Contact (CAIFC). This “united front” organization’s link to the Chinese
government was not then well known, though in recent years it has been publicly linked
to the People’s Liberation Army’s Political Warfare Department, which has intelligence
responsibilities.° Meanwhile, other exchanges with US congressional specialists on China
were promoted by a mysterious “united front” operative with excellent official contacts

in China named Jimmy Wong, In this troubled decade, Wong made himself known to a
wide range of Americans playing a role in China policy as having the ability to set up visits
to China and meetings with key officials very quickly. He occasionally even opened his
spacious Beijing home to congressional staffers. His precise affiliation with the Chinese
authorities remains obscure.’

The approaches of the Chinese government to gain influence and gather information
abroad differ from the tradecraft of Russia and the former Soviet Union.* Notably, the
Chinese focus more on individuals rather than effects, and on shaping the personal
context rather than operational tricks. It is person-to-person relationships that carry the
weight of Chinese information operations. Working on these personal ties, the Chinese
authorities focus on facilitating meetings and contacts that may or may not result in
opportunities to influence foreign targets. Still, because Chinese influence seeking is
largely a governmental undertaking, it is hardly surprising that the Chinese mix influence

Congress

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020473
