4.2.12
WC: 191694

Today, my views on all of the above subjects have remained essentially the same, but because of
my support, critical as it may be, for Israel, I am now widely regarded as a “conservative,” a
“right winger,” a “sell out,” even a fascist. Many college and university students have no idea of
my views on the core issues that separate liberals from conservatives (inexact as those categories
are). All they know is that is that I defend Israel, and that is enough for them to brand me as
“politically incorrect” and worse. This is the way MJ Rosenberg, an anti-Israel blogger active in
Media Matters, a Democratic think tank, absurdly put it:

“Dershowitz is not a Democrat. The only issue he cares about—and the only issue he
ever spouts off about—is Israel. Unlike most Americans, [say 99%], Dershowitz has no
particular opinion on any issue that does not relate to Israel.”

His obsession over Israel’s imperfections has blinded him, and other of his ilk, to the fact that the
vast majority of my books, op eds, cases and causes relate to civil liberties, criminal and
constitutional law.

This last change is not one that I have brought about by changing my views or actions, as were
the earlier changes. I have done nothing different. It is the world around me that has changed
with regard to Israel, and attitudes toward me have changed because of this. I will continue to
live by my principles. I’m probably too old and too set in my ways to change even if I wanted to,
which I don’t. I will not adapt my principles to changing times and attitudes, when I believe that
these changing attitudes are wrong and bigoted. But I must recognize that the perception of me
by many others is changing.

After I helped win the O.J. Simpson case, I thought that it would be that aspect of my career that
would be the focus of my obituary. Now I think it will also be Israel. Since I’m never satisfied
unless I get the last word, I penned the following letter to the editor to be sent following my
death:

Dear editor:

I don’t want you to think that I don’t appreciate some of the kind words written about me
in your obituary, but I had a policy throughout my life of setting the record straight with
regard to things written about me, and I see no reason to allow my untimely death to
change that. Your understandable emphasis on my high profile cases distorts my record
by downplaying the numerous pro bono cases I handled on behalf of obscure and indigent
clients. I made it a policy throughout my life to devote at least half of my professional
time to nonpaying cases and causes.

One such cause was the defense of Israel from unfair attacks, but I was not an uncritical
advocate for the Jewish state. To the contrary, I was critical when criticism was
warranted, as with regard to Israel’s settlement policy. I supported Israel not despite my
liberalism, but because of it—and because I have always defended just causes against
unjust attacks.

356

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017443
