viewed as external causes. Forces
operating on human bodies to produce
action, in contrast, are viewed as
reflective of purpose, driven not only by
external causes but, more importantly,
by abstract reasons such as goals,
aspirations, and destiny. The meaning-
making proclivities of humans are so
irrepressible that when external forces
operate on human bodies to produce a
significant impact on humankind, even
the causes of the actions of these human
bodies tend to be regarded in terms of
more abstract purposes and reasons. The
anthropomorphic description of
hurricanes is a caSe in point.

Actions of objects have causes,
whereas actions of humans have reasons.
Invisible forces that operate on humans
but that appear to operate independent of
human agency have been the subject of
religious speculations for centuries.
These invisible forces include: internal
neural and biological forces (e.g.,
homeostatic processes, autonomic
activity) that exert regulatory forces
which are largely hidden from conscious
experience or control; strong emotions
that seem to arise apart from conscious
human intention (e.g., rage, fear,
empathy); phenomena such as dreams or
hallucinations that seemingly operate
independent from the human will;
motivations, biases, inclinations,
predilections (such as
anthropomorphism, ambiguity
avoidance, preference for simple
explanations, etc.) whose presence is so
universal that, like language, the
capacities for their development or
expression may have an evolutionary
basis; individual beliefs (such as the
belief that there is a reality outside our
head/we are not dreaming; the belief in
human freedom; in values such as
equality, etc), attitudes, preferences,

Page |12

goals, or intentions; aggregated beliefs
that result in social norms, values,
religion, culture, and social movements;
and codified forces such as decrees,
rules, alliances, and laws.

Before the enlightenment of the
18th century, many scholars believed
that thought was instantaneous and that
action was governed by an indivisible
mind separate from the body. Ifa
palpable cause for a person’s behavior
could not be identified, the Divine or
some counterpart constituted a more
agreeable explanatory construct than
invisible forces acting through
scientifically specifiable mechanisms.
Unparalleled advances in the sciences
have occurred since the dawn of the
Enlightenment, including the
development of scientific theories about
magnetism, gravity, quantum mechanics,
and dark matter that depict invisible
forces operating with measurable effects
on physical bodies. During this same
period, serious scientific research on
invisible forces acting within, on and
across human bodies was slowed and
underfunded in part because the study of
the human mind and behavior was
regarded by many in the public and in
politics as soft and of dubious validity.
The result is that many still regard the
mind and behavior as best understood in
terms of the actions of non-scientific
agents, such as a god or gods, and the
manifestations of mental illness as the
result of a failure of individual will —a
denial of the possibility that invisible
forces (that is, forces that are tractable
scientifically but of which a person is
not normally aware) can affect mind and
behavior.

One could try to explain away
the gap in scientific knowledge about
invisible forces by referring to the
conception of science and religion as

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021258
