Adelson told the president, was the only person he trusted on Israel in the White House.
Adelson’s billions and implacability always impressed Trump, and his endorsement,
Bannon believed, significantly strengthened his hand.

But overriding the management of the harrowing West Wing dysfunction, Kelly’s
success—or even relevance, as he was informed by almost anyone who was in a position
to offer him an opinion—depended on his rising to the central challenge of his job, which
was how to manage Trump. Or, actually, how to live with not managing him. His desires,
needs, and impulses had to exist—necessarily had to exist—outside the organizational
structure. Trump was the one variable that, in management terms, simply could not be
controlled. He was like a recalcitrant two-year-old. If you tried to control him, it would
only have the opposite effect. In this, then, the manager had to most firmly manage his
own expectations.

In an early meeting with the president, General Kelly had Jared and Ivanka on his
agenda—how the president saw their role; what he thought was working and not working
about it; how he envisioned it going forward. It was all intended to be a politic way of
opening a discussion about getting them out. But the president was, Kelly soon learned,
delighted with all aspects of their performance in the West Wing. Maybe at some point
Jared would become secretary of state—that was the only change the president seemed to
foresee. The most Kelly could do was to get the president to acknowledge that the couple
should be part of a greater organizational discipline in the West Wing and should not so
readily jump the line.

This, at least, was something that the general could try to enforce. At a dinner in
Bedminster—the president dining with his daughter and son-in-law—the First Family
were confused when Kelly showed up at the meal and joined them. This, they shortly
came to understand, was neither an attempt at pleasant socializing nor an instance of
unwarranted over-familiarity. It was enforcement: Jared and Ivanka needed to go through
him to talk to the president.

But Trump had made clear his feeling that the roles played by the kids in his
administration needed only minor adjustment, and this now presented a significant
problem for Bannon. Bannon really had believed that Kelly would find a way to send
Jarvanka home. How could he not? Indeed, Bannon had convinced himself that they
represented the largest danger to Trump. They would take the president down. As much,
Bannon believed that he could not remain in the White House if they did.

Beyond Trump’s current irritation with Bannon, which many believed was just the
usual constant of Trump resentment and complaint, Bannonites felt that their leader had, at
least policywise, gained the upper hand. Jarvanka was marginalized; the Republican
leadership, after health care, was discredited; the Cohn-Mnuchin tax plan was a hash.
Through one window, the future looked almost rosy for Bannon. Sam Nunberg, the former
Trump loyalist who was now wholly a Bannon loyalist, believed that Bannon would stay

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020103
