3.3 Cognitive Synergy Al

— Example of episodic knowledge: memory of the situation in which the agent first met
Bob; memory of a situation in which a specific tall blocks tower was built

e Attentional memory (knowledge about what to pay attention to in what contexts)

— Example of attentional knowledge: When involved with a new person, it’s useful to pay
attention to whatever that person looks at

e Intentional memory (knowledge about the system’s own goals and subgoals)

— Example of intentional knowledge: If my goal is to please some person whom I don’t
know that well, then a subgoal may be figuring out what makes that person smile.

In Chapter 9 below we present a detailed argument as to how the requirement for a multi-
memory underpinning for general intelligence emerges from certain underlying assumptions
regarding the measurement of the simplicity of goals and environments. Specifically we argue
that each of these memory types corresponds to certain modes of communication, so that intel-
ligent agents which have to efficiently handle a sufficient variety of types of communication with
other agents, are going to have to handle all these types of memory. These types of communi-
cation overlap and are often used together, which implies that the different memories and their
associated cognitive processes need to work together. The points made in this section do not
rely on that argument regarding the relation of multiple memory types to the environmental
situation of multiple communication types. What they do rely on is the assumption that, in
the intelligence agent in question, the different components of memory are significantly but not
wholly distinct. That is, there are significant “family resemblances” between the memories of a
single type, yet there are also thoroughgoing connections between memories of different types.

Repeating the above points in a slightly more organized manner and then extending them, the
essential idea of cognitive synergy, in the context of multi-memory systems, may be expressed
in terms of the following points

1. Intelligence, relative to a certain set of environments, may be understood as the capability
to achieve complex goals in these environments.

2. With respect to certain classes of goals and environments, an intelligent system requires a
“multi-memory” architecture, meaning the possession of a number of specialized yet inter-
connected knowledge types, including: declarative, procedural, attentional, sensory, episodic
and intentional (goal-related). These knowledge types may be viewed as different sorts of
patterns that a system recognizes in itself and its environment.

3. Such a system must possess knowledge creation (i.e. pattern recognition / formation) mech-
anisms corresponding to each of these memory types. These mechanisms are also called
“cognitive processes.”

4, Each of these cognitive processes, to be effective, must have the capability to recognize when
it lacks the information to perform effectively on its own; and in this case, to dynamically
and interactively draw information from knowledge creation mechanisms dealing with other
types of knowledge

5. This cross-mechanism interaction must have the result of enabling the knowledge creation
mechanisms to perform much more effectively in combination than they would if operated
non-interactively. This is “cognitive synergy.”

Interactions as mentioned in Points 4 and 5 in the above list are the real conceptual meat
of the cognitive synergy idea. One way to express the key idea here, in an AI context, is that

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012957
