ERSON

with that. But in the end she
danother rich man as Epstein
of the Palm Beach Stockade.
n her relationship with the
d the field until she met and
Brian Vickers. Along the way
changing her name to Sarah

trname to Marcinko and, after
school, became a commercial
yr. Calling herself Gulfstream
ier social media presence until
any filed a trademark infringe-
1e suit was settled out of court,
stream” to “Global.”

“About Me” page on her web-
reneurial spirit by selling invi-
he continued on to manage a
ness and soon she was disco-
immersed into the marketing

sperson and international fash-

y Epstein. But on her YouTube
: cockpit of a Gulfstream II that 4
ulfstream, sitting beside a mam :

ki, a pilot for Epstein.

2

Fittyy Ricwu

Marcinko’s Manhattan address belongs to a building where
Jeffrey Epstein’s brother, Mark, owns the majority of apartments.
Sarah Kensington uses the same address in New York.

The Girls

One of the girls who gave Jeffrey Epstein massages moved to Los
Angeles and became an actress, starring for a time in a soap
opera and appearing in several films. She is now pursuing a
career in country music.

Several girls have been arrested for drugs, prostitution, and
other nonviolent crimes.

One girl is dead—murdered by her boyfriend for reasons
that had nothing to do with Epstein.

One of the girls who claimed to have been raped by Epstein
is now a successful real estate broker in South Florida.

Mary moved back in with her parents, finished high school,
and attended college for a while. She had her ups and downs
along the way. In 2010, she was arrested for shoplifting. But
Mary, who was born in 1990, is still in her midtwenties — still
young for a man of Jeffrey Epstein’s age—with many good years
ahead of her.

Wendy Dobbs studied nursing in college and became a bar-
tender and waitress. “I want to fill a position in which I can
[utilize] my communication and customer service skills to help
others,” she wrote on LinkedIn. “I feel I am at my. best when I
can make a difference in someone’s life. My goal is to inspire and
encourage others to make positive changes daily. If you are not
teaching for the stars then your dreams are not big enough.”

283

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022180
