is gi d.eeneeS ‘¢ Ser nes ne
y §5 connection huddle, @
alse @ ike
eoples: structure
sce first

i collective
eS oe ted beyond long:ts 6 whe mene sel
‘Steaks humans: “Emperor

“ei0 survive #BeN€S |S ‘connections.

oe tan enough htymnani B! § witeu fe @ feel | wires ©
~~ adaptive capacity ti 3

swim relationships

efit
beh aviors

meaning New

Chapter 27

* The lead author is John T. Cacioppo, Ph.D., the
Tiffany and Margaret Blake Distinguished
Service Professor in the Departments of
Psychology and Psychiatry and the Director of
the Center for Cognitive and Social
Neuroscience at the University of Chicago. He
is a co-founder (with Gary Berntson) of the field
of social neuroscience, a past president of the
Association for Psychological Science and a
recipient of numerous awards mcluding the
National Academy of Sciences Troland Research
Award and the American Psychological
Association Distinguished Scientific
Contribution Award. Cacioppo’s research
concerns the neural, hormonal, genetic, and
behavioral mechanisms underlying the operation
and maintenance of the emergent structures that
characterize social species generally and humans
in particular. He has published more than 400
scientific articles and 16 books, including
Loneliness: Human nature and the need for
social connection (2008, Norton Books) and
Handbook of neuroscience for the behavioral
sciences (2009, John Wiley & Sons). Cacioppo
is also the Director of the Chicago Social Brain
Network.

Cacioppo has been interested both in
the similarities and the differences between
humans and other species. Human social
cognition, emotion, behavior, and executive
functioning — that is, our social brain — are
especially sophisticated compared to those found
in other species. Research in the neurosciences
sometimes focuses so much on mechanisms
divorced from the social settings and functions
they may have evolved to serve in social species
such as our own that the generalizations to
humans are inaccurate. Animal models permit
experimental control and interventions that
cannot be carried out in humans, but
understanding the implications of this work for
the human brain and biology depends on explicit

Page |18

The Social Nature of Humankind

Social species, by definition, are
characterized by the formation of structures
(e.g., dyads, families, tribes, cultures) that
extend beyond an individual. Although we
may revere the rugged individualist, we are
fundamentally a social species. I begin by
discussing some of the invisible evolutionary
forces that led members of our species to band
together to form such structures. I then
consider how selfish genes (e.g., through
anthropomorphism, /) might have led to social
brains and why the social connections and
structures created by humans are especially
powerful and flexible. Finally, I describe a
nonintuitive way of thinking about the
absence of satisfactory social connections
(i.e., loneliness), mention how and why
chronic loneliness can be so harmful, and
discuss how our need for social connection
motivates us to search for meaning and
connections beyond ourselves and other
individuals. One implication that is explored
here, and in more detail in the essays to
follow, is that genetic and cultural adaptations,
not human ignorance, may be fueling the
search for meaning and connection with a
transcendent entity or being.

Mythic Individualism

For at least the past century, we
have celebrated the power and
intellectual might of the solitary genius.
This includes individuals such as
Thomas Edison who brought electrical
power to individual households,
transforming night into day; Henry Ford
who introduced the mass production of

comparison to and knowledge of the rich
benefits of human social interaction and feelings
of connection. This essay addresses this gap in
our thinking about the genetic, neural, and
hormonal processes that constitute our brain and
body and in doing so provides a different
perspective on who we are as a unique biological
species.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021264
