By Nancy Francis

GPS technology will soon be at your feet, offering peace of mind to loved ones of Alzheimer’s
sufferers, people with autism, active preschoolers and others who might wander into harm’s way
or get lost.

A Los Angeles-based company that sees opportunity in the merging of GPS tracking technology
and footwear, has developed several prototypes of GPS tennis shoes.

GTX Corporation is having discussions with various footwear manufactures (including some in
Oregon) about licensing its technological designs and connectivity system.

During a recent visit to Portland, GTX Corp CEO Patrick Bertagna showed KGW a prototype of

the company’s GPS shoe.
Download the full article
Mobile Ways to Keep Track of Your Kids

By Lori Tucker, (WATE) Knoxville, TN -- June 7, 2007

As technology makes our society more mobile, there are more mobile ways to keep track of your
loved ones including cell phones, car trackers and even shoes. GPS shoes That's right, an LA
company has patented a GPS system in a shoe.

Xplorer Smart Shoes, made by GTX Corp., are able to track the person wearing them in real time
or by remote surveillance.

GTX says the shoes work particularly well for: children, people with Alzheimer's disease, outdoor

adventures, military, police, fire and public safety workers.
IN THE PIPELINE: Tracking All The Uses For Positioning Chips

By Donna Fuscaldo - DowJones Newswire - May 1, 2007

For Patrick Bertagna, the eureka moment came a few years ago when watching the coverage of the
Elizabeth Smart abduction. After spending years helping companies track their products via
software, Bertagna decided it was time to do something that mattered.

So the serial entrepreneur, armed with a couple of checks from friends, launched Global Trek
Xploration Corp., a Los Angeles-based company that's developing shoes embedded with a global
positioning chip. The shoes will enable parents to monitor their children's every movement and

caregivers to keep real time tabs on elderly or sick people.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_032095
