String Puller | 69

nese intelligence services, were not monitoring his communications
with her. It was, however, a chance Snowden was willing to take.

Snowden, in any case, did not intend to conceal his identity for
more than a few months. He told Poitras he had a specific purpose
in allowing her to name him in her ongoing film project. Indeed,
he said it was essential in his plan to prevent others, including pre-
sumably his “most trusted confidante,” from being suspected by law
enforcement of helping him in his enterprise. He prevailed on her
to accommodate his plan, saying, “You may be the only one who
can prevent that, and that is by immediately nailing me to the cross
rather than trying to protect me as a source.” His choice of the imag-
ery of crucifixion suggested that like Jesus Christ he was willing to
sacrifice himself for the sake of others.

In keeping with their operational security arrangement, Snowden
said that he would first send her an encrypted file of documents that
she would not be able to read. Only after his conditions were met and
“everything else is done,” he said, “the key will follow.” He was now
pulling the strings. To get that key, she had to follow his instructions.

© One of his conditions was that she help him recruit Greenwald ©
and other outlets for his disclosures. “The material provided and
the investigative effort required will be too much for any one per-
son,” he wrote to Poitras. He next directed her to contact Greenwald.
“T recommend that at the very minimum you involve Greenwald. I
believe you know him.” (Snowden apparently did not tell her that
he had unsuccessfully attempted to reach out to Greenwald before he
had contacted her.)

His continued interest in Greenwald was understandable. Aside
from Greenwald’s opposition to what he called the “Surveillance
State,” he was a gateway to The Guardian. That publication had
become an important player in the business of disclosing govern-
ment documents by publishing a large part of the U.S. documents
supplied to WikiLeaks, as we have seen. By breaking whistle-
blowing stories about U.S. intelligence, it had also greatly increased
the circulation of its website. As an establishment newspaper, it also
gave these WikiLeaks stories credibility with the media. So despite
Greenwald’s inability to create an encrypted channel, Snowden still
needed him. He had no reason to believe that Greenwald would turn

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 69 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019557
