he is required to provide only his permanent address to the database.

Epstein is currently listed under his Florida home even though he is no longer a Florida resident either (after his
arrest he immediately became a US VI resident), but then again who's keeping count?

Once again these are mere technicalities when it comes to Epstein's sexual predator case. The two most
disturbing parts of this story are that this could easily happen again and that once again there will be no justice.
Had Epstein been a caring benefactor contributing to society and these young girl's education and well being
then the world would have judged him differently.

What he has done instead is the exact opposite -- causing enormous damage to hundreds of underage girls who
could have been sponsored towards a better education.

With respect to Manhattan DA Cyrus Vance, I'm confused by his decision to allow this sexual predator to live
at his Fifth Avenue house all this time (since August 2010), given his rather tough stance on gun control as
witnessed by his testimony in Friday's NYPost when asked about a Florida driver cleared in a Manhattan
weapon's charge, guns brought illegally into New York City he said,  for any reason violate well established
state laws and are a threat to our public safety.

Then wouldn't a registered sex offender living 500 feet from a park (Central Park where young girls
congregate), and with resources to spare be an even more dangerous threat to society?

The Billionaire Pedophile's Sex Den
by Conchita Sarnoff javascript:void(0)

© javascript:;javascript:;
e http:/(www.thedailybeast.com/blogs- and-stories/2010-07-22/jeftrey-epstein-pedophile-billionaire-and-his-sex-den/full/
e javascript:void(0)

e javascript:void(0)
e javascript:void(0)

Newscom Hedge fund mogul and sex offender Jeffrey Epstein, who went free this week, lived in a
depraved world of thrice-daily massages, pornographic artwork, and hush money—that’s only now
being revealed. Conchita Sarnoff reports on the sordid details in part two of her exclusive exposé. Also:
¢ Nude images of young girls were scattered around the house and the bathroom soap was shaped like sex
organs
¢ Staff trolled for fresh recruits to make sure Epstein had two or three massage appointments each day
¢ The house manager has been sentenced to a longer prison term than Epstein—for trying to sell notes
regarding massage appointments
¢ Epstein gave $1 million to his friend Jean Luc Brunel when he was starting the modeling agency MC2
¢ According to a former bookkeeper, young girls were brought to the U.S. by MC2—often from Eastern
Europe—then traveled on Epstein’s private jets
Jeffrey Epstein’s loyal friends say that his prosecution was unduly harsh, rather than outrageously lenient.
They insist that his sexual habits, although obsessive and unusual, were mostly legal and essentially harmless.
As the police records attest, the girls brought to El Brillo Way were routinely told they could “say no” at any
time during a massage as Epstein escalated contact in a step-by-step assault that was remarkably similar in
every victim’s statement: First she would be asked to remove her shirt, then her pants. He would attempt to
fondle her buttocks and breasts as he masturbated, then bring out a large vibrator. There was sometimes digital
penetration, and the more willing girls were lured into full-blown sexual relations with both Epstein and Nadia
Marcinkova, who was referred to in press accounts and police reports as Epstein’s live-in “sex slave.”

A former bookkeeper in the Miami office, who also arranged visas for girls traveling to the U.S., confirmed

that MC2 girls became frequent guests on Epstein’s private jets.

It’s true that some underage girls may have lied about their age, and some came to the house voluntarily several
times—although, according to Florida statutes, none of that has any bearing on the criminality of the contact,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029767
