9. KNOWLEDGE UNIVERSE EDUCATION (“KUE”)

KUE is the third largest for-profit education company in the world. KUE currently operates in the U.S. and
is the indirect parent company (87.6% ownership**) of KLC and also a major shareholder (owns 17.9% to
40.0%* of equity) cf k12. In November 2005, KLC divided its business, with substantially all of its real
estate owned by special purpose subsidiaries (KLC PropCo) and all of its customer contracts and
operations remaining at KLC and certain other subsidiaries (KLC OpCo).

The controlling shareholders of the General Partner are Michael Milken, Lowell Milken and Steven Green
(collectively the “Principals). Michael Milken and Lowell Milken each has more than two decades of
experience in the education sector through involvement in several for-profit and not-for-profit initiatives.
Steven Green, a former U.S. ambassador to Singapore, has more than two decades of experience as an
international industrialist leading major corporate restructurings and expansions in manufacturing,
housing, consumer products, retail and real estate enterprises. The Principals founded KUE and its
affiliated companies over the past decade based on their vision of a world where competition for human
capital is becoming the driving force of economic prosperity. KUE represents the Principals’ sole vehicle
for equity investment opportunities in the early education through secondary school sector going forward.

The Company has an accomplished and internationally recognized leadership team. Led by the
Principals, the Company has a prominent management team and advisory board with significant financial
resources and substantial experience in the fields of education and real estate management. Additionally,
through its past experiences at KLC, the Company has demonstrated the ability to acquire and integrate
education assets. The Company's management consists of people with diverse backgrounds in
operations, corporate finance, real estate, government relations and education. KUE’s role will be to
oversee the portfolio of operating businesses, identify acquisition candidates, hire top level management
of the operating businesses and help the portfolio companies navigate some of the legislative and
regulatory matters that exist in K-12 education. These services will be performed for the Company by
KULG, for which KUE will pay $20.0 million annually to KULG in quarterly installments beginning July 1,
2006 pursuant to the Fixed Overhead Payment Agreement. See “Related Party Transactions.”

The General Partner plans to have a Board of Directors (the “Board) with representatives from some of
the countries KUE plans to expand into, public policy experts and independent directors with
complementary backgrounds. KUE expects to benefit from the breadth and depth of the knowledge,
experience and expertise of the Board. At the final closing of this offering, at least fwo members of the
Board will be Independent Directors. After the Initial Listing of the Units and so long as consistent with
contractual and licensing obligations, the General Pariner will have a majority independent board.

9.1. KUE Management and Advisory Board Members

The following table sets forth KUE’s management and current advisory board members. Detailed
biographies can be found in Appendix A.

“ The 12.4% minority position is held by various investors.
* KUE's ownership varies depending on the liquidation value or sale value of k12 and according fo the preference of the various securities KUE owns.
At higher valuations, KUE’s percentage ownership is lower. See “k12 Inc (ki2) —k12 Equity.”

73

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024506
