JAMES PATTERSON

“Antisocial psychopaths don’t have brakes at all.”

Dr, Salter has never met Epstein, but she’s followed his case
closely and finds him a familiar type. She’s especially struck by
the singular nature of the relationship between powerful, wealthy
men and vulnerable, underage women.

“(The men] are more impressive to a fourteen-year-old [girl]
than to, say, an adult young woman who is self-supporting and
feels more sure of herself,” she explains.

“They are attracted to what they call freshness — barely bud-
ding sexuality and lack of sexual experience. The difference
between them and their victims feeds their ego.

“Great wealth and access are generally factors that make men
feel they are entitled to whomever and whatever they want. Some
have narcissistic personalities with inflated self-images. And of
course, great wealth and status make such men think they can
get away with it. Too often, they’re right.”

On the other hand, Dr. Salter believes that certain condi-
tions, such as the ones exhibited by Jeffrey Epstein, might be an

inborn character trait.

Personality can be influenced, sometimes quite heavily, by

genetics.

“Virtually no one believes anymore that humans are born a —

totally blank slate,” she explains.

“We arrive with temperamental and personality variations ~
that, of course, the environment can often, but not always, influ: ~

ence. We arrive with baggage.”
Is Epstein a born psychopath, then?

“Psychopathy is the umbrella term for individuals who do not :

have a conscience. Pyschopaths are often narcissistic, but

cissists are often not psychopathic. Some individuals who prey”

228

oie 38

E

on young girls delude then
will not harm the child. Tt
medicated it with thinking
pathic and simply don’t cat
can't say anything about Ej
but narcissism and psychop;
look at concerning anyone w
bescent individuals but wh
teens.

“Psychopaths are often si
seekers who are bored if not
manipulate. They do not estz

“They are callous and r
don’t feel bad about harming

“Rules don’t apply to th
They are sure they won't get «

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022035
