20,000 people and found that S&Mers were no more likely to have been coerced into
sexual activity” than the general population. But -- also for the record -- an S&Mer whose
sexuality was associated with being abused would not be less legitimate than the rest of
us, as long as that person practiced kink consensually. Because what makes S&M okay is
consent, right? Right. S&M isn't okay or not okay because of its source, whatever that
might be -- it's okay only when it's practiced consensually, right? Right. So this is all
actually kind of a silly conversation to have in the first place, right? Right. It's too bad
stigma tends to make zero sense, isn't it? Stigma loves to trick you into debating on its
own terms.)

It's much more entertaining to imagine how people would talk about S&M, if we lived in
a culture where S&M wasn't wildly stigmatized. In fact, what if S&M were admired or
seen as a great thing... instead of being repressed and forced underground and seen as a
dark, evil, disgusting thing? I've known people who called S&M and other fetishes
superpowers, in a kind of ironic twist on this concept.

Many people have written about how S&Mers can offer lessons in sexuality that we
gleaned from our outside-the-box perspective (there's a whole paper on this topic for
clinicians, written by psychologist Peggy Kleinplatz and titled Learning from
Extraordinary Lovers). I myself have talked about how S&Mers tend to use much more
careful and precise sexual communication tactics than the mainstream (examples include
checklists and safewords). But these lessons are hardly confined to S&Mers -- there are
lots of vanilla people out there who are awesomely careful and precise about
communicating sexually.

The superpower framework is a bit different....

+ For example, I already noted that it's been demonstrated that S&Mers are not more
likely to have endured non-consensual acts -- so we know that despite what Freud would
have had you believe, all S&M does not arise from childhood abuse. But maybe it does
arise from a childhood experience... an awesome childhood experience. Maybe the
Missing S&M Link is that something totally wonderful happened to S&Mers in our
childhoods.

Hey, vanilla people? I'm so sorry you all had such bad childhoods. Really, you have my
sincerest sympathies.

+ For example, some folks will say that we S&Mers have a wire crossed somewhere;
some genetic inferiority. But maybe we are totally way superior. Maybe average
dominants and sadists are, say, more empathic than the norm. (There is, after all, actual
research showing that consensual S&M increases intimacy.) Maybe average submissives
and masochists are better at processing pain and enduring challenges, both physical and
emotional, than the norm.

Sorry vanilla people, but we're going to have to start screening for your gross vanilla
genes in the womb. Nothing personal.

+ For example, one of my exes has a story about how he was down in Latin America and
he only had access to incredibly cold showers. So he gritted his teeth, stepped into the
shower, and told himself that a dominant woman was forcing him to take it. Actually it

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018488
