election with the Russians, OMG! The anti-Trump world, and especially its media—that
is, the media—believed that there was a high, if not overwhelming, likelihood that there
was something significant there, and a decent chance that it could be brought home.

If the media, self-righteously, saw it as the Holy Grail and silver bullet of Trump
destruction, and the Trump White House saw it, with quite some self-pity, as a desperate
effort to concoct a scandal, there was also a range of smart money in the middle.

The congressional Democrats had everything to gain by insisting, Benghazi-like, that
where there was smoke (even if they were desperately working the bellows) there was fire,
and by using investigations as a forum to promote their minority opinion (and for
members to promote themselves).

For Republicans in Congress, the investigations were a card to play against Trump’s
vengefulness and unpredictability. Defending him—or something less than defending him
and, indeed, possibly pursuing him—offered Republicans a new source of leverage in their
dealings with him.

The intelligence community—with its myriad separate fiefdoms as suspicious of
Trump as of any incoming president in memory—would, at will, have the threat of drip-
drip-drip leaks to protect its own interests.

The FBI and DOJ would evaluate the evidence—and the opportunity—through their
own lenses of righteousness and careerism. (“The DOJ is filled with women prosecutors
like Yates who hate him,” said a Trump aide, with a curiously gender-biased view of the
growing challenge.)

If all politics is a test of your opponent’s strength, acumen, and forbearance, then this,
regardless of the empirical facts, was quite a clever test, with many traps that many people
might fall into. Indeed, in many ways the issue was not Russia but, in fact, strength,
acumen, and forbearance, the qualities Trump seemed clearly to lack. The constant
harping about a possible crime, even if there wasn’t an actual crime—and no one was yet
pointing to a specific act of criminal collusion, or in fact any other clear violation of the
law—could force a cover-up which might then turn into a crime. Or turn up a perfect
storm of stupidity and cupidity.

“They take everything I’ve ever said and exaggerate it,” said the president in his first
week in the White House during a late-night call. “It’s all exaggerated. My exaggerations
are exaggerated.”

OOK Ok

Franklin Foer, the Washington-based former editor of the New Republic, made an early
case for a Trump-Putin conspiracy on July 4, 2016, in S/ate. His piece reflected the
incredulity that had suddenly possessed the media and political intelligentsia: Trump, the
unserious candidate, had, however incomprehensibly, become a more or less serious one.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019958
