83

region’s Chinese-language radio stations are particularly loyal to Beijing, representing
either independent Chinese voices or those supporting the banned religious sect, Falun
Gong. According to sources close to the deal, Phoenix structured the offer to avoid a
US law that limits foreign ownership of US radio stations to 25 percent. In filings with
the Federal Communications Commission, Phoenix was listed as owning 20 percent of
the US-based investor, RBC, while the remaining 80 percent was owned by an editor

at Phoenix who is also a US citizen.’ Under such a setup, no FCC regulations would
have been broken. To be extra sure that the deal would go through, however, advisors
to Phoenix convinced the Hong Kong company to seek approval from the Committee
on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS), a Treasury Department bureau
that monitors foreign investments in the United States on national security grounds.
In a ruling that surprised the potential investors, CFIUS declined to approve the deal,
referring it to then-president Obama. Sources close to the deal noted that the fact that a
Phoenix employee in the United States had pleaded guilty to espionage-related charges
did not help Phoenix’s case.'* RBC pulled out of the deal on September 25, 2013.

But the efforts to break into the L.A. radio market did not end there. In the summer
of 2018, a New York firm, H&H Capital Partners, announced that it was buying a
Mexican radio station, XEWW, that broadcasts throughout Southern California.
Sources involved in that deal said that H&H sought to buy a Mexican station in
order to avoid scrutiny in the United States. H&H is a New York-based firm led by
several individuals who spent years working as reporters for Global Times, a state-run
newspaper in China. Filings from H&H to the FCC about the deal suggest that Phoenix
Satellite TV remains a player in the purchase as the address that H&H gave for its Los
Angeles—based holding company was the same as Phoenix’s offices in L.A.* H&H’s
attempt to buy XEWW to broadcast into the United States has been challenged at the
FCC by a Chinese-language radio station linked to Falun Gong.’

China’s main English-language newspaper, China Daily, has also expanded operations
into America, starting a North American edition in 2009. In addition, through its
marketing arm, China Watch, the paper began distributing English-language content
directly as advertising inserts in the Wall Street Journal, the Des Moines Register, and the
Washington Post, among other leading US newspapers. Often, it’s hard to tell that China
Watch’s material is an ad, as was the case highlighted by President Donald Trump with
an advertising insert in the Sunday Des Moines Register—an insert that the president
suggested was aimed at undermining political support both for the president and the

Republican party.’” Rough estimates from newspaper executives indicate that China

Section 6

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020542
