It was not just that before he became a dedicated supporter of Donald Trump, he was a
dedicated naysayer, or that he had once been an Obama and Hillary Clinton supporter. The
problem was that, really, nobody liked him. Even for someone in politics, he was
immodest and incorrigible, and followed by a trail of self-serving and often contradictory
statements made to this person about that person, which invariably made it back to
whatever person was being most negatively talked about.

He was not merely a shameless self-promoter; he was a proud self-promoter. He was,
by his own account, a fantastic networker. (This boast was surely true, since Skybridge
Capital was a fund of funds, which is less a matter of investment acumen than of knowing
top fund managers and being able to invest with them.) He had paid as much as half a
million dollars to have his firm’s logo appear in the movie Wall Street 2 and to buy himself
a cameo part in the film. He ran a yearly conference for hedge funders at which he himself
was the star. He had a television gig at Fox Business Channel. He was a famous partier
every year at Davos, once exuberantly dancing alongside the son of Muammar Gaddafi.

As for the presidential campaign, when signing on with Donald Trump—after he had
bet big against Trump—he billed himself as a version of Trump, and he saw the two of
them as a new kind of showman and communicator set to transform politics.

Although his persistence and his constant on-the-spot personal lobbying might not
have endeared him to anybody, it did prompt the “What to do with Scaramucci?” question,
which somehow came to beg an answer. Priebus, trying to deal with the Mooch problem
and dispose of him at the same time, suggested that he take a money-raising job as finance
director of the RNC—an offer Scaramucci rebuffed in a blowup in Trump Tower, loudly
bad-mouthing Priebus in vivid language, a mere preview of what was to come.

While he wanted a job with the Trump administration, the Mooch specifically wanted
one of the jobs that would give him a tax break on the sale of his business. A federal
program provides for deferred payment of capital gains in the event of a sale of property
to meet ethical requirements. Scaramucci needed a job that would get him a “certificate of
divestiture,” which is what an envious Scaramucci knew Gary Cohn had received for the
sale of his Goldman stock.

A week before the inaugural he was finally offered such a job: director of the White
House Office of Public Engagement and Intergovernmental Affairs. He would be the
president’s representative and cheerleader before Trump-partial interest groups.

But the White House ethics office balked—the sale of his business would take months
to complete and he would be directly negotiating with an entity that was at least in part
controlled by the Chinese government. And because Scaramucci had little support from
anybody else, he was effectively blocked. It was, a resentful Scaramucci noted, one of the
few instances in the Trump government when someone’s business conflicts interfered with
a White House appointment.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020088
