Orbital Divergence Characterizes Expansive Dynamics on_ Biological

Attractors

In the dynamical world of equilibria (fixed points in phase space) and
periodic cycles (fixed points of a return map), a common concern involves their
stability. What happens if an adventitious jiggle moves the orbit a little distance
away from the fixed point? Would the wind wiggled suspension bridge start to flap
with increasing amplitude or would it damp back down quickly to its stable state. A
“Lyapounov functional,” L, is constructed which can be visualized like a smooth
potential bowl around the fixed point such that any L stable solution that starts at its
bottom tends to stay there or is asymptotically L stable if the solution converges to
the fixed point at the bowl’s bottom as +». If the point is not L stable, it is L

unstable.

The modern study of nonlinear systems have produced another kind of

stability issue with a similar appellation yielding other direction specific indices, the

Lyapounov characteristic exponents, 42 (Oseledec, 1968; Eckmann and
Ruelle, 1985; Ruelle, 1990; Ott et al, 1994). In this context, the instability is not one
of perturbative escape from a fixed point, but of the average rate with which the
(theoretically infinitesimal) distances among a handful of points representing a set of
initial conditions (each a precision limited, hypothetical repetition of the same
experiment), are being stretched apart by the expansive action of a strange attractor
system. In three dimensions, one can envision a ball of initial conditions being
elongated along the unstable direction and ironed down from both sides along the
stable direction over time, transforming the ball into an ellipsoid and then into a
(recurrent) curve. In simplest terms and thinking about a one dimensional scalar
time series, the Lyapounov exponent reflects the multiplicative average (logarithmic
addition) of the sequence of slopes of the series of straight lines connecting the
points. An average slope of > 45 is expansive such that a linear distance on the x-
axis is increased when mapped onto the y axis. A slope of < 45 is a contraction

mapping reducing the linear distance of the x-axis when mapped to the y axis.

218

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013718
