Morgan Stanley | sesearcs NORTH AMERICA INSIGHT ~~

relevant MSCI country index or MSCI sub-regional index or MSCI AC Asia Pacific ex Japan Index.

Important Disclosures for Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC Customers

Important disclosures regarding the relationship between the companies that are the subject of Morgan Stanley Research and Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC or Morgan Stanley or any
of their affiliates, are available on the Morgan Stanley Wealth Management disclosure website at www.morganstanley.com/online/researchdisclosures. For Morgan Stanley specific disclosures,

you may refer to www.morganstanley.com/researchdisclosures.

Each Morgan Stanley Equity Research report is reviewed and approved on behalf of Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC. This review and approval is conducted by the same person who reviews

the Equity Research report on behalf of Morgan Stanley. This could create a conflict of interest.

Other Important Disclosures

Morgan Stanley & Co. International PLC and its affiliates have a significant financial interest in the debt securities of BlackRock Inc., Charles Schwab Corp, E*Trade Financial Corp, Franklin

Resources Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc, Legg Mason Inc., OM Asset Management Plc, Virtus Investment Partners.
As of January 29, 2018, BlackRock Inc., T. Rowe Price Group, Inc. beneficially owned 5% or more of a class of common equity securities of Morgan Stanley.

Morgan Stanley Research policy is to update research reports as and when the Research Analyst and Research Management deem appropriate, based on developments with the issuer, the
sector, or the market that may have a material impact on the research views or opinions stated therein. In addition, certain Research publications are intended to be updated on a regular periodic
basis (weekly/monthly/quarterly/annual and will ordinarily be updated with that frequency, unless the Research Analyst and Research Management determine that a different publication

schedule is appropriate based on current conditions.

Morgan Stanley is not acting as a municipal advisor and the opinions or views contained herein are not intended to be, and do not constitute, advice within the meaning of Section 975 of the
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.

Morgan Stanley produces an equity research product called a ‘Tactical Idea. Views contained ina “Tactical Idea ona particular stock may be contrary to the recommendations or views expressed
in research on the same stock. This may be the result of differing time horizons, methodologies, market events, or other factors. For all research available on a particular stock, please contact

your sales representative or go to Matrix at http://www.morganstanley.com/matrix.

Morgan Stanley Researchis provided to our clients through our proprietary research portal on Matrix and also distributed electronically by Morgan Stanley to clients. Certain, but not all, Morgan
Stanley Research products are also made available to clients through third-party vendors or redistributed to clients through alternate electronic means as a convenience. For access to all

available Morgan Stanley Research, please contact your sales representative or go to Matrix at http:/www.morganstanley.com/matrix.

Any access and/or use of Morgan Stanley Research is subject to Morgan Stanley@Terms of Use (http://www.morganstanley.com/terms.htmD. By accessing and/or using Morgan Stanley

Research, you are indicating that you have read and agree to be bound by our Terms of Use (http://www.morganstanley.com/terms.htmD. In addition you consent to Morgan Stanley processing
your personal data and using cookies in accordance with our Privacy Policy and our Global Cookies Policy (http://www.morganstanley.com/privacy_pledge.htmD), including for the purposes of
setting your preferences and to collect readership data so that we can deliver better and more personalized service and products to you. To find out more information about how Morgan Stanley

processes personal data, how we use cookies and how to reject cookies see our Privacy Policy and our Global Cookies Policy (http://www.morganstanley.com/privacy_pledge.html).
If you do not agree to our Terms of Use and/or if you do not wish to provide your consent to Morgan Stanley processing your personal data or using cookies please do not access our research.

Morgan Stanley Research does not provide individually tailored investment advice. Morgan Stanley Research has been prepared without regard to the circumstances and objectives of those
who receive it. Morgan Stanley recommends that investors independently evaluate particular investments and strategies, and encourages investors to seek the advice of a financial adviser.
The appropriateness of an investment or strategy will depend on an investor@circumstances and objectives. The securities, instruments, or strategies discussed in Morgan Stanley Research
may not be suitable for all investors, and certain investors may not be eligible to purchase or participate in some or all of them. Morgan Stanley Research is not an offer to buy or sell or the

solicitation of an offer to buy or sell any security/instrument or to participate in any particular trading strategy. The value of and income from your investments may vary because of changes
in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, default rates, prepayment rates, securities/instruments prices, market indexes, operational or financial conditions of companies or other factors. There

may be time limitations on the exercise of options or other rights in securities/instruments transactions. Past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance. Estimates of future

performance are based on assumptions that may not be realized. If provided, and unless otherwise stated, the closing price on the cover page is that of the primary exchange for the subject

company@securities/instruments.

The fixed income research analysts, strategists or economists principally responsible for the preparation of Morgan Stanley Research have received compensation based upon various factors,

including quality, accuracy and value of research, firm profitability or revenues (which include fixed income trading and capital markets profitability or revenues), client feedback and competitive
factors. Fixed Income Research analysts@strategists@r economists@ompensation is not linked to investment banking or capital markets transactions performed by Morgan Stanley or the

profitability or revenues of particular trading desks.

The Important US Regulatory Disclosures on Subject Companies section in Morgan Stanley Research lists all companies mentioned where Morgan Stanley owns 1% or more of a class of
common equity securities of the companies. For all other companies mentioned in Morgan Stanley Research, Morgan Stanley may have an investment of less than 1% in securities/instruments

or derivatives of securities/instruments of companies and may trade them in ways different from those discussed in Morgan Stanley Research. Employees of Morgan Stanley not involved in

he preparation of Morgan Stanley Research may have investments in securities/instruments or derivatives of securities/instruments of companies mentioned and may trade them in ways

different from those discussed in Morgan Stanley Research. Derivatives may be issued by Morgan Stanley or associated persons.

With the exception of information regarding Morgan Stanley, Morgan Stanley Research is based on public information. Morgan Stanley makes every effort to use reliable, comprehensive

information, but we make no representation that it is accurate or complete. We have no obligation to tell you when opinions or information in Morgan Stanley Research change apart from

when we intend to discontinue equity research coverage of a subject company. Facts and views presented in Morgan Stanley Research have not been reviewed by, and may not reflect information

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025585
