108 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

According to one Aeroflot official, ordinarily all international pas-
sengers are required to have a valid passport as well as a visa to the
country of final destination. Snowden had neither a valid passport
nor a visa. Still Snowden was able to board the flight to Moscow.
Aeroflot, a state-controlled airline, presumably responds to the Rus-
sian government on matters where Putin has given his approval.

Snowden first met Harrison in person on June 23. She was wait-
ing for him in the car that Jonathan Man had arranged to take him
to the airport that morning. Snowden was dressed in a gray shirt
and khaki slacks. Harrison was dressed in jeans and flip-flops. She
said she had chosen this dress style so that they would blend in at
the airport with vacationing tourists. She had financed the trip, and
she was apparently now calling the shots. Harrison’s concern was
that they might be arrested at the airport, so Man accompanied them
through passport control. He was able to do this because he bought
a ticket on the cheapest available international flight. Harrison had
given Man a phone number to call if they got arrested. When she
and Snowden boarded the flight at 12:45 p.m., Harrison effectively

® became Snowden’s second “carer”—a job that would require her ©
presence in Moscow for the next four months.

Snowden had pretty much remained silent until the plane took
off. The first full proper sentence she heard from him as they headed
for Moscow, as she recalled, was “I didn’t expect that WikiLeaks was
going to send a ninja to get me out.”

Meanwhile, Assange continued creating “distractions,” as he put
it. On June 24, a booking was made for Snowden on an Aeroflot
flight to Cuba, and this information was relayed to the foreign press
organization in Moscow, resulting in over a dozen reporters flying
to Havana on the flight. Snowden, of course, never showed up for it.
“In some of our communications, we deliberately spoke about that
[flight] on open lines to lawyers in the United States,” Assange said.
One subsequent piece of his misinformation was that Snowden was
flying to Bolivia on the private plane of the Bolivian president, Evo
Morales (who was then in Moscow for a meeting). That misinfor-
mation had the desired effect. U.S. allies in Europe, including France,
Spain, and Portugal, refused to allow that plane to fly through its
airspace, forcing the plane to land in Austria. This misinformation

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 108 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019596
