Obama has done everything right, and yet his Iran policy is failing. There
is no evidence that the sanctions will bring Iran to its knees and force the
supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, to accept the humiliation of
abandoning his nuclear program. But neither is there any sign of new
thinking in the White House. I don't see how what didn't work last year is
going to work this year, says Vali Nasr, who served in the Obama State
Department before becoming dean of the Johns Hopkins School of
Advanced International Studies. He might not get much of an argument
from White House officials, who, the New York Times recently noted,
seem content with stalemate.

The United States is not negotiating directly with Iran but rather doing so
through the P5+1, which consists of the five permanent Security Council
members and Germany. The P5+1's current position is that Iran must stop
enriching nuclear fuel to 20 percent purity -- a point from which Iran
could quickly move to weapons-grade material -- transfer its existing stock
of such fuel to a third country, and shut down one of its two enrichment
facilities, known as Fordow. In exchange, the parties will help Iran
produce such fuel for medical purposes, which the regime claims is its
actual goal. Iran has refused, saying it will not shut down Fordow.

But the current state of play masks the larger issue, which is that the
ayatollah and those around him believe the United States wants to make
Iran cry uncle -- which happens to be true. The next round of P5+1
negotiations, now scheduled for Feb. 25 in Kazakhstan, are almost
certainly not going to go anywhere unless the United States signals that it
is prepared to make what the Iranians view as meaningful and equivalent
moves in exchange for Iranian concessions. Arms-control experts say that
both British Prime Minister David Cameron and Catherine Ashton, head
of foreign affairs for the European Union, favor offering Iran a reduction
in sanctions; but there's a limit to what they can do without the United
States.

Of course, such flexibility would be pointless if Iran 1s simply hell-bent on
gaining the capacity to produce a nuclear weapon. The signals, as always
with Iran, are cryptic. Iranian authorities have told nuclear inspectors that
they plan to install a new generation of centrifuges in order to accelerate

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028731
