I have been encouraged by some recent acts that have begu n to nip at the asymmetry. For years, the
language of “feeling s” had been reserved for our enemy while we were limited to that of “action;” we
would do terrible acts that would cause bad feelings in the enemy which would then serve to justify
whatever response it made. It had always been a question of the harsh insensitive acts Westerners do against
Muslims and the resulting hurt, loss, shame etc. that Muslims experience. The Ground Zero Mosque
incident, however, broke new ground because all of a sudden non-Muslims’ feelings became the focus and
were cast as resulting from Muslim acts. Another example was seen in how quickly the attempt to blame the
Benghazi murders on the video about Mohammad fell apart. Just as large corporations eventually learned to
turn away from shakedown attempts from race baiters, we are beginning to learn to demand symmetry
through mirroring. A word of caution: When enablers change their behavior and demand symmetrical rules
f or the addict, the latter typically initially erupts with great resistance. This is a stage we must be prepared
to tolerate and fully withstand as it creates the only real chance for the addict to finally change. It is critical,
therefore, that when we finally engage in mirroring that we be prepared to see it through completion.

FP: What if we fail to engage in our own Inner Jihad and the Control Factor stays firmly in place?

Siegel: Critical to the Inner Jihad is the realization that our civilization is fragile; not to be taken for granted.
Our demands for multi-culturalism and diversity have bumped heads with the simple paradox that tolerating
the intolerant leads to extinction. Tolerating the intolerant is perhaps the most crystalline version of
asymmetry we have accepted. Seriously engaged Muslims MUST place the Koran above all law while in
America, the Constitution ranks supreme. As Omar Ahmad , founder of CAIR, reputedly said, “Islam isn’t
in Amer ica to be equal to any other faith, but to become dominant. The Koran is the highest authority in
America and Islam is the only accepted religion on Earth.” Who makes law- the people or Allah? While the
Control Factor constantly seeks for some accommodation between the two, this conflict CAN NOT be
negotiated. Only one can survive not because we have declared “war” but because our Islamic Enemy has.
That is, perhaps, the lesson we will most need to fully learn, one way or another. We will eventually hit a
Turnaround Moment as a nation and if enough of us are not truly prepared to fight and continue to be
controlled by our delusions, we will lose. If we truly seek to win, it is better to get there sooner while we
have advantages than later.

FP: Bill Siegel, thank you for joining FrontPage Interview.
And thank you for writing this superb and most important book.

We encourage all o f our readers to get their hands on The Control Factor: Our Struggle to See the True
Threat and to read it!

Editor’s note: To watch The Glazov Gang‘s recent discussion about the Muslim Brotherhood’s
infiltration of the United States and the Obama administration, see this week’s episode below:

Freedom Center pamphlets now available on Kindle: Click here.

Filed Under: Daily Mailer, FrontPage Tagged With: Denial, Islam, muslim brotherhood, Obama, Siegel,
The Control Factor

22

= Print This Post
About Jamie Glazov

Jamie Glazov is Frontpage Magazine's editor. He holds a Ph.D. in History with a specialty in Russian, U.S.
and Canadian foreign policy. He is the author of the critically acclaimed and best-selling, United in Hate:
The Left’s Romance with Tyranny and Terror. His new book is High No on For America. He is the host

of Frontpage’s television show, The Glazov Gang, and he can be reached at jamieglazov11@gmail.com.
Visit his sit at JamieGlazov.com.

Login

Follow the discussion

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025036
