» Standard Rate and Data Services ( www.srds.com )

Check out this resource for annual listings of magazine and company customer mailing lists available for
rent. If you’re considering creating a how-to video for duck hunting, check out the size of customer lists
from hunting gun manufacturers and related magazines first. Use the print version in libraries instead of
paying for the somewhat confusing online access.

Finding Products to Resell or Manufacturing

» Affiliate Networks: Clickbank ( www.clickbank.com ),
Commission Junction ( www.cj.com_), Amazon Associates ( www.amazon.com/associates )

No inventory, no invoices. Experimenting with products and categories through affiliate networks such
as Clickbank and Commission Junction, which pay you 10-75% of each purchase, is a fast method for
doing a proof-of-concept using similar products. It’s often worth setting up accounts at both just to
observe how bestselling items are being sold and promoted.

Amazon Associates averages 7-10% commissions, but bestselling books are excellent for testing target
markets for more elaborate informational products. For all of the above: Do not get into bidding wars
against other affiliates using expensive general keywords or overexposed brand names. Go niche or go
broke.

» Alibaba ( www.alibaba.com )

Based in China, Alibaba is the world’s largest business-to-business marketplace. From MP3 players for
$9 each to red wine for $2 per bottle, this site is the source. If someone here doesn’t make it, it probably
can’t be made.

=» Worldwide Brands ( www.worldwidebrands.com )

Offers an extensive how-to guide for finding manufacturers willing to dropship product to your
customers, which allows you to avoid pre-purchasing inventory. This is where Amazon and eBay power
users find not just drop shippers, but also wholesalers and liquidators. Shopster (www.shopster.com) is
also a popular option, with more than 1,000,000 dropship products to choose from.

» Thomas’s Register of Manufacturers ( www.thomasnet.com ) (800-699-9822)

Searchable database of contract manufacturers for every conceivable product, from underwear and food
products to airplane parts.

> Electronics, DVDs, Books ( www.ingrambook.com , www.techdata.com )

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013903
