4.2.12
WC: 191694

As it turned out, I was not able to express my opinions anyway, even in response to their
outrageous mischaracterization of my viewpoint or their comparisons of me to the most evil men
in the world. When I turned to answer one of the bigoted chants, as I always do in these
situations, the police officer in charge gently but firmly insisted that I walk directly to my car and
not engage them. It was an order, reasonably calculated to assure my safety, and it was right.

The officer climbed into my car with me and only got out a few blocks away, when we were
beyond the range of violence. The intimidation had succeeded. I had been silenced, and the false
and horrible message had gone unanswered in the plaza near Faneuil Hall.

I have experienced similar hatred around the world: in California, Toronto, Trondheim, Cape
town, London and Paris. I needed police protection—sometimes with shields and bulletproof
vests—when I spoke about Israel. I never saw anything like this hatred directed at the South
African Apartheid regime in the 1970s and 1980s. Even during the worst days of McCarthyism,
there was nothing like this even directed at Stalin’s Soviet Union or Mao’s China. And there was
nothing like this directed at the German Nazi regime or the Italian Fascist regime in the 1930s.

The hatred directed at Israel—calling it worse than Nazi Germany and Apartheid South
Africa—is sui genesis. It is unprecedented on campuses around the world, and it was inevitable
that it would cross the line into old fashioned and crude anti-Semitism, as it has done on many
campuses and in many lecture halls.

I could not remain silent in the face of this dangerous phenomenon. I decided therefore to
prioritize my legal and human rights work in defense of Israel and the Jewish community as long
as this threat persisted.

I had wanted to write a book called 7he Case For Peace, in which I criticized both sides of the
Arab-Israeli conflict for not doing enough to bring about a compromise peace. Instead, I decided
to write Zhe Case For Israel, in order to provide students with a factual basis for responding to
the untruths that are rampant on campuses. The book became an instant best seller, both on
campuses and around the world, where it was published in many languages. It helped change the
terms of the debate on many campuses and it changed the minds of many people. One example is
particularly gratifying. An Arab man named Kassim Hafeez wrote an article in October of 2011
entitled From Anti-Semite to Zionist. In it, he described his journey as follows:

“Growing up in a Muslim community in the UK I was exposed to materials condemning
Israel, painting Jews as usurpers and murderers. My views were reinforced when I
attended Nakba Day rallies where speakers predicted Israel's demise.

My hate for Israel and for the Jews was fuelled by images of death and destruction, set to
the backdrop of Arabic melodies about Jihad and speeches of Hizbollah leader Hasan

Nasrallah or Osama Bin Laden.

There was also constant, casual antisemitism around me. My father would boast of how
Adolf Hitler was a hero, his only failing being that he didn't kill enough Jews.

354

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017441
