96 CASSELL ET AL. [Vol. 104

reasonable efforts to notify identified victims of, and consider victims’
views about, prospective plea negotiations, even prior to the filing of a
charging instrument with the court.”?°°

The Department also noted that it provided extensive pre-charging
notifications to victims under the VRRA:

Pursuant to the Victims’ Rights and Restitution Act of 1990 (VRRA), the Department
identifies victims and provides to them service referrals, reasonable protection, notice
concerning the status of the investigation, and information about the criminal justice
process prior to the filing of any charges. The Department’s investigative agencies
provide such services to thousands of victims every year, whether or not the
investigation results in a federal prosecution.?!°

Quantifying the scope of this undertaking with regard to one federal
investigative agency, the Department explained:

[T]he [FBI] alone reports that it provided more than 190,000 services to victims
during the past fiscal year [FY 2011], including case status updates, assistance with
compensation applications and referrals, and counseling referrals. From sexual
assaults mi Indian Country to child pornography and human trafficking to mass
violence and overseas terrorism, FBI victim specialists provide much-needed
immediate and ongoing support and information to victims. The FBI addresses victim
safety issues when needed, providing on-scene response and crisis intervention
services in thousands of investigations. With regard to sexual assault victims, FBI
personnel arrange for and often accompany victims to forensic sexual assault medical
examinations and provide assistance with HIV/STD testing.?!!

In view of the Department’s existing notifications and provision of
services before charges are filed under the VRRA, it is hard to conceive
how any viable claim could be made that it would be difficult to provide
similar nghts under the CVRA. The four rights that would be potentially in
play before charging would be the night to reasonable protection, the nght
to fair treatment, and the nght to confer with prosecutors, along with the
predicate right to notice of these rights.”!”_ The VRRA already requires the
Department to provide reasonable protection, so this would not be an
expanded obligation.?'> Similarly, the Guidelines already require
prosecutors to confer with victims about plea agreements (the most
common situation where victims want to confer), so it is hard to imagine
how extending this right would create any undue burden.*'* Additionally,
the night to “fair treatment” could only be a problem if the Department

209 Td.

710 Td. at 2-3.

211 Td. at 3.

712 18 U.S.C. § 3771 (a)(1), (5), (8), (c)(1) (2012).

713 See 42 U.S.C. § 10607(c\(2) (2006).

214 See ATTORNEY GENERAL GUIDELINES, supra note 52, at 41-42.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014075
