just to make sure the limitations period runs on all his or her crimes while he or she remains
in office.

But concluding that a president can be indicted does not mean that he or she should be
indicted, even if that would be called for by the normal operation of the criminal process.
Awaiting action by the House of Representatives may in some circumstances be the prudent
course—though one might question whether it is appropriate to weigh that institutional
factor variously depending on how realistic it is that a particular House and Senate would
take their responsibilities seriously.

Some offenses might be seen as better suited for initial consideration by Congress in the
impeachment process. Whether an exercise of executive authority—such as discharging an
official or pardoning someone for an allegedly corrupt reason—should be grounds for
sanction might be seen as requiring an essential political judgment, perhaps best suited for
elected officials to make. On the other hand, the regular processes of the federal criminal
system might be a better forum for an alleged complex multi-defendant financial conspiracy
including money laundering, bank fraud, tax evasion, etc. In short, context matters for a
special counsel or other prosecutor considering how best to proceed.

There is good reason to have the judiciary decide the question of whether an indictment of a
sitting president is categorically barred. This is especially the case now that the decision
process would in significant part be based upon an interpretation of a Supreme Court
decision, Clinton v. Jones. If a prosecutor included the president in an indictment, the
president would no doubt move to have his or her name stricken. The first question a judge
should ask is, “Jf J strike the president from the indictment, will he or she agree to waive any
defense of the statute of limitations that may expire while he or she is in office?” If the
president refuses to waive the statute of limitations, that itself would be a good reason for
permitting the indictment, while postponing any further proceedings.

It is impossible to predict whether a prosecutor would ask the attorney general for
authorization to indict—or to make the president an unindicted co-conspirator—without
knowing the degree and nature of any criminality that might be uncovered, and how
including or not including the president in an indictment would affect the trial of other
conspirators. But the possibility of including the president in an indictment is not
categorically foreclosed.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030208
