Knowledge-Based Education vs. Process-Based Education 8&7

may not be so easy to assess until the graduate actually shows up in
the real world.

ALL CHILDREN HAVE THE SAME EDUCATIONAL NEEDS

There is more than a 50% dropout rate in many high schools because
we have forgotten that not everyone is going to Harvard and that
going to Harvard is not the goal of education. Some children simply
need to learn about ethics and business and child raising and how the
legal system works, how to take care of their health and how to un-
derstand when politicians are saying things that make no sense. Why
wouldn’t those subjects be critical? No politician seems to think any
of those are more important than math and science. How about the
student who has a passion for the environment, or doing social good,
or being a good parent, or running for office? Does every student’s
school life have to be the same?

STUDENTS LEARN THAT MEMORIZATION IS MORE IMPORTANT
THAN THINKING

In an answer-obsessed world, “go figure it out for yourself” or “go try
it and see what happens” are replaced by more memorization. Giving
kids a chance to fail helps them learn. Actively preventing failure by
telling the right answer just helps kids pass tests. In each of the cog-
nitive processes that I presented in Chapter 4, failure is not only an
option—but it will happen all the time. One’s first hypothesis will be
wrong. One will plan badly or botch a negotiation. These processes are
all about failure, not right answers. Recovering from failure, getting
better next time, is what learning is all about. Learning entails failure
and cannot happen without it. The kind of failure I have in mind here
is expectation failure. This means that we can fail even when we suc-
ceed, because we didn’t expect things to happen quite like they did.
Our predictions are often wrong. We work at getting better at making
them and explaining to ourselves why we were wrong. This process of
expectation failure followed by explanation is at the heart of learning.
That’s what learning is all about. Memorization has nothing whatever
to do with learning, unless you want to become a singer.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023833
