it continues to drive desire. Because the reward system isn’t delivering the goods, excess unfolds driven
by a wanting system that is looking for pleasure in all the wrong places.

When we were hunters and gatherers, excess was an unborn concept. We lived on the edge then,
enjoying scraps of whatever kill arrived on the fireplace, together with the tubers gathered up on the day.
We, at least many of us in the West, live in a world that has a 24/7 cafeteria of food and drugs. It is a want
it-have it culture. As work in molecular biology shows, and as I will pick up in chapter 4, some of us start
off more vulnerable than others, susceptible to sampling from the cafeteria at all hours of the day and
night. The combination of a heavily marketed environment and a biological susceptibility to excess, is a
losing combination for the consumer.

The work on addiction provides a template for thinking about how individuals and societies ignite
a path to excessive harms. In the same way that excessive eating gets going and going out of control
when the dopamine system drives an irrational desire to want more and more food that is liked less and
less, so too is excessive harm often driven by a similar decoupling between wants and likes. Individuals
start with a desire to acquire wealth, to physically harm those who are unlike them, or taste the sweetness
of revenge against someone who acted unfairly. These desires are often linked to an experience of
pleasure or the anticipation of pleasure. But as such actions and their consequences accumulate, the
pleasure derived diminishes, as money is acquired just for the sake of having more, while individuals are
injured, maimed, or killed because this is the policy that must be pursued. Liking 1s no longer part of the
equation, leaving cold desire to do its work at the expense of innocent others who get in the way.

To develop this idea, and especially the link to excessive harm, I have to fill in a missing piece in
our discussion of desire. Everything I have discussed in this section has focused on individuals and their
core corporal needs for survival — or in the case of drugs, recreation. I haven’t said a word about how
desire works in the social arena, whether the same systems are in play when we compare our own desires
and resources with others, or with other opportunities. When desire is motivated by what others have or
have achieved, are the same processes in play as when we eat, drink, or gamble? These are important
questions as the desire to accumulate great wealth or to harm others is often motivated by comparison
shopping, assessing what others have relative to our own status. The most primal starting point for

comparison shopping is the world of hierarchies, a world where the desire to dominate rules.

Power hungry
Whether you are observing a social insect, fish, lizard, bird, rat, whale, monkey, or human, males are
bigger and bolder, more boisterous, brash and brazen, and more motivated to get into a brawl than

females. Though biologists don’t define the sexes based on these differences, they use them to understand

Hauser Chapter 2. Runaway desire 63

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012809
