other breakthroughs, from designing artificial intelligences to fine-tuning classified
military aircraft systems that depended on mathematics for their stability. When
you wander into a deep part of Google’s technical database systems, you're touching
his work. When you talk to your phone, the interface bubbles with some of his
patents. How did Baran’s 1960s idea of a survivable, packet-based system at
ARPAnet become the Internet in the 1970s and 80s? Danny was part of a cluster of
dirty-fingernail engineers - along with engineers such as Vint Cerf and Jon Postel -
who'd done the work to make it possible. His centrality in that project was
memorialized in a famous speech he once delivered in which he described having
one of the very first email addresses in history - and then whipped out a sheaf of
bound pages that represented the entire Internet address list at the time. It ran
about 50 pages. To the extent there were membership cards in the New Caste,
Danny’s would have had a very low number. It was an easy decision for our prize
committee. No Bill Gates. No Steve Jobs. So, here’s how | met Danny Hillis: I called to
tell him he had won a million dollars. (I recommend this as a way to start a
friendship.)

Hillis had been a tinkerer since he was a child and never seemed to have lost the
pleasure of a wild intermingling of joy and practice. You couldn’t tell with him
where passion ended and work started. He was so technically adept that he could
inject even the coldest digital projects with a bit of hot emotion, like Bernini
breathing life into a block of carved marble with one, “just so” grace note of his
chisel. One of Hillis’s most famous projects, for instance, was a 15-foot high tic-tac-
toe playing tinkertoy robot he’d built when he was 20 years old, in his second year
as an undergraduate at MIT in 1975. Made from 10,000 wooden spindles and poles,
it was an early attempt of his to show how machines, even simple ones, might
seduce us with both brains and looks. The effect of a giant tinkertoy pile sitting there
at The Massachusets Institute of Technology had to make you giggle, even as your
mind boggled at the fact that this heap of sticks, strings and dials was beating you
again and again ata child’s game. Hillis was an artist as much as an inventor - one
reason he’d not become Bill Gates or Steve Jobs. (And why Gates and Jobs
maintained a consistent, admiring respect for him.) He’d once spent a decade at
Disney designing rides or thinking up new dreams as a kind of real-world mayor of
Tomorrowland. He liked to joke that he knew he was at the right place when, on his
first day, he asked where he might find a parachute harness for an experiment and
heard, in response, “What size?”

Hillis was an avid reader, and he has the habit to think of his bleeding-edge work in
the context of long historical gulps. Conversations with him often tie back to
Paleocene era biology or some other deep root. That long-term view, married to his
unmatched hands-on feel for complicated systems, made him the ideal designer for
the clock, a machine intended to last millennia. The problems associated with such
an undertaking were, honestly, as unreal as you might expect. How to power the
clock? (Hand winding, the better to ensure it was not forgotten.) How to protect it?
(Put in the middle of nowhere.) Did you need to plan for global climate change? (Yes.
The design was adjusted to accommodate shifts in the earth’s spin when the planet’s
icecaps melt off.) Do you write a users’ manual for people 10,000 years from now?

128

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018360
