Table of Contents

CONTRIBUTION AGREEMENTS

On September 10, 2018, we announced a commitment by our chief executive officer, Emest Garcia III, to contribute shares of Carvana Co.
Class A common stock from his personal shareholdings to Carvana at no charge, intended to fund equity awards of 165 restricted stock units (or roughly
$10,000 at the time of the announcement) to each of our then-current employees upon their satisfying certain employment-tenure requirements. During the
year ended December 31, 2018, Carvana and Mr. Garcia entered into contribution agreements pursuant to which Mr. Garcia contributed approximately
0.2 million shares of Carvana Co. Class A common stock to Carvana, at no charge. We subsequently granted approximately 0.2 million restricted stock
units. Although we do not expect Mr. Garcia to incur any tax obligations related to these contributions, we have indemnified Mr. Garcia from any such
obligations that may arise.

RELATIONSHIP WITH DRIVETIME

Prior to November 1, 2014, Carvana, LLC was a wholly owned subsidiary of DriveTime. On November 1, 2014, DriveTime distributed the
units of Carvana, LLC to the unit holders of DriveTime on a pro rata basis, which we refer to as the “Spinoff.” DriveTime is controlled by our controlling
stockholder, Ernest Garcia II, who is also the father of our Chief Executive Officer, Emest Garcia III. Following the Spinoff, the unitholders of DriveTime
contributed the Carvana, LLC units to Carvana Group.

Subsequent to the Spinoff, we entered into several agreements with DriveTime and affiliated companies that were intended to facilitate our
transition to a standalone company, which are described below, along with subsequent agreements. We will refer to DriveTime and its subsidiaries and
affiliates, other than us, as “DriveTime”. There can be no assurances that DriveTime or its affiliated companies will enter into any new agreements or
arrangements with us, or extend or renew existing agreements or arrangements, on the same terms, similar terms, or at all.

ATLANTA, GA HUB LOCATION LEASE GUARANTEE

In May 2013, DriveTime guaranteed our obligations under the lease governing our occupancy of the property on which an Atlanta hub is
located. We do not compensate DriveTime for the guarantee. The initial lease term and rent payments commenced December 1, 2013, and the current term
expires on November 30, 2019. Under the lease we may enter into one more two-year extension term. Base rent during the initial term was $9.5 thousand
per month but may increase by 3% of the then-current base rent during each extension term. Monthly rent payments for January 1, 2018, through
November 30, 2018, were $10.4 thousand per month, and as of December 1, 2018, are $10.7 thousand per month through November 30, 2019. In addition to
base rent, we are responsible for our proportionate share of common area maintenance charges.

-42-

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024351
