and professors use in the classroom. It is worth noting that this past spring a professor was actually investigated
by one of these BRTs for assigning CAM as class reading!

Second, since the article was published, the situation on campus has only worsened. Within a few months after
the article’s release, student demands for censorship had broken out across the country.

Third, and possibly most importantly, we want to reactivate and deepen the discussion that we started in CAM
about the science of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) as a useful lens for looking at any number of modern
problems. CBT is a remarkably simple, successful treatment that helps patients overcome their anxiety and
depression by teaching them how to identify and combat ‘cognitive distortions,’ the wild mental exaggerations
in which the anxious and depressed overindulge. To our knowledge, CAM was the first and only major article to
propose that we should not only use CBT to examine our own inner thoughts, but also the world around us.

The issue of free speech on campus is extremely hot, and will continue to be for years to come, but virtually no
one besides us is offering a solution that gets to the heart of the problem and can actually help students rather
than simply ridiculing them.

Regarding the market, when CAM came out, it seemed that this was a uniquely American problem. But just in
the last year, it has spread throughout the UK, and is beginning to appear in Australia. In fact, there has been
major interest in CAM in the UK and European countries. In Europe, I was recently interviewed by
Siiddeutsche Zeitung, Germany's biggest daily newspaper, and Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung also ran a major
article. When I recently spoke in Denmark, the president of the University of Oslo chastised me for not
knowing that all the students had read CAM and had been discussing it all year. 

GREG LUKIANOFF is an attorney and the president and CEO of the Foundation for Individual Rights in
Education (FIRE). He is the author of Unlearning Liberty: Campus Censorship and the End of American Debate
and Freedom From Speech. He has been published in the Wall Street Journal, the Washington Post, the New
York Times, the Los Angeles Times, TIME, the Boston Globe, Forbes, U.S. News & World Report, the Stanford
Technology Law Review, the Chronicle of Higher Education, and numerous other publications.

JONATHAN HAIDT, a social psychologist, is the Thomas Cooley Professor of Ethical Leadership at New York
University's Stern School of Business. His academic specialization is morality and the moral emotions.

Haidt is the author of two books: The Happiness Hypothesis (2006) and The Righteous Mind: Why Good People
are Divided by Politics and Religion (2012), which became a New York Times bestseller. He was named one of
the top global thinkers by Foreign Policy magazine, and one of the top world thinkers by Prospect
magazine. His three TED talks have been viewed more than 4 million times. He 1s the founder of
HeterodoxAcademy.org, a collaboration of professors who advocate for increasing viewpoint diversity in
universities throughout the English-speaking world.

-o

VIGILANCE

Who We Trust, What We Believe, and Why

(working title)

by Hugo Mercier

[Proposal; Delivery: 18 months from signed contract; 100,000 words]

What leads voters to support policies and politicians that make them worse off? writes cognitive scientist
Hugo Mercier. How could terrorists believe that blowing themselves up will lead to an eternity of bliss? Why
do Dalits —untouchables—endorse a worldview that confines them to the lower echelons of society? Why do
crowd members drive each other into rampaging fury? The common wisdom in psychology and in the social

Brockman, Inc. Frankfurt 2016 Hotlist
-&.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025154
