94 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

the response of these three officials, which included the admonition
by Litt that “no serious news organization would publish this,” Gib-
son gave the green light to publish the story.

The story broke on June 6. “NSA Collecting Phone Records of
Millions of Verizon Customers Daily,” proclaimed the Guardian
headline. Under Greenwald’s byline, it said, “Exclusive: Top secret
court order requiring Verizon to hand over all call data shows scale
of domestic surveillance under Obama.” Along with it was the FISA
order. The PRISM story broke hours later in The Washington Post.
Written by Gellman and Poitras, it claimed that the NSA and the
FBI were tapping directly into the central servers of nine leading
U.S. Internet companies, which were knowingly participating in the
operation. The latter allegation turned out to be not entirely true,
because some of the Internet companies cited in the story denied
that they had knowingly participated. The back-to-back publication
of these two stories by The Guardian and the Post, however, provided
the explosive “shock,” at least in the global media, that Snowden had
predicted.

© Snowden’s identity had not been revealed in either the Guardian ®
or the Post story on June 6. Snowden, however, insisted on outing
himself. He explained to Greenwald that he needed to “define him-
self” before the U.S. government “demonized” him as a spy. That
self-definition would be accomplished by a twelve-minute video
titled “Whistleblower.” Poitras extracted much of the material for
the video from the twenty or so hours she had shot. In the filmed
interview, Snowden voiced many of the same statements he had
made in his manifesto, so he no longer needed to post that on the
Internet. When he insisted on the immediate airing of the video,
Greenwald told him that by going public in this way, he was saying
“fuck you” to the American government. Snowden replied, “I want
to identify myself as the person behind these disclosures.”

On June 9, the video was posted on the Guardian website with the
Freedom of the Press Foundation getting an on-screen credit. “My
name is Ed Snowden,” the extraordinary disclosure began. He then
described how the NSA was watching U.S. citizens. Even though the
NSA press spokesperson subsequently disputed some of his more
dramatic claims, such as his assertion that he had the authority at

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 94 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019582
