92 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

evidently set off alarm bells at Booz Allen and the NSA. Snowden
expressed anger to the journalists in the room at the NSA’s intru-
sions on the privacy of his girlfriend.

Snowden also performed his security procedures on camera,
including stuffing bed pillows under the door to block any eaves-
droppers and throwing a red blanket over his head, which he called
jokingly his “magical cloak of power.” He explained to Greenwald
that he donned his “cloak” when he turned on his laptop to prevent
any hidden cameras in the room from spotting his password. He also
checked the hotel phone for bugs. It was not without irony that he
went through these security rituals to protect his data as he allowed
Poitras to film NSA data on his computer screen. Because he planned
to use these journalists as his outlets to go public in a few days, the
security measures he performed while on camera would only serve
a temporary purpose.

The centerpiece of the planned video would take the form of an
interview with Greenwald. Snowden himself provided the talking
points. The filming would eventually provide Poitras with a feature-

® length documentary, Citizenfour, which would be commercially ©
released in October 2014 and win an Academy Award for her.

The next day, Ewen MacAskill, whom Poitras had not wanted
Greenwald to bring to the initial meeting, joined Poitras and Green-
wald in Snowden’s room. Snowden insisted that MacAskill also go
through the ritual of stowing his cell phone in the minibar refrigera-
tor. Not without irony, Snowden’s own phone can be seen on his bed
recharging. Although MacAskill was sent by Gibson to the event to
verify the source’s bona fides, he had apparently hardly been briefed.
The questioning went as follows:

MACASKILL: Sorry, I don’t know anything about you.

snowpen: OK, I work for—

MACASKILL: Sorry, I don’t know even your name.

snowben: Oh, sorry, my name is Edward Snowden. I go by Ed.

MacAskill went on to ask him to enumerate the various positions
he held during his career in intelligence. Snowden was not entirely

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 92 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019580
