Restructure Medicare & Medicaid: Legal Factors—Possible Solution

Tort Reform Could Reduce Incentives of Defensive Medicine

Ways to control costs from tort litigation without jeopardizing patient
health

The CBO listed a package of tort reform proposals (10/09):

Cap of $250,000 on awards for noneconomic damages for malpractice

Cap on awards for punitive damages of $500,000 or twice the award for
economic damages, whichever is greater

Modification of the “collateral source” rule to allow evidence of income from
such sources as health and life insurance, workers’ compensation, and
automobile insurance and subtract it from jury awards

A statute of limitations — one year for adults and three years for children —
from the date of discovery of an injury

Replacement of joint-and-several liability with fair-share rule: Defendants
would be liable only for the percentage of a final award equal to their share of
responsibility

Source: Congressional Budget Office, Letter to the Honorable Orrin G. Hatch dated October 9, 2009; Congressional Budget

K P Office, Letter to the Honorable John D. Rockefeller iV dated December 10, 2009
(@)E) www.kpcb.com USA Inc. | What Might a Turnaround Expert Consider? 313

Restructure Medicare & Medicaid: Legal Factors—Possible Solution

Tort Reform Could Save USA Inc. $54 Billion Over Next 10 Years

¢ CBO estimates that a package of typical tort reform proposals could
reduce total US health spending by 0.5% annually:

— Direct savings: Roughly 0.2% of this reduction stems from lower national
premiums for medical malpractice insurance.

— Indirect savings: Another 0.3% stems from slightly lower utilization of
services related to defensive medicine.

¢ Over 10 years, CBO estimated tort reform could reduce net healthcare
spending by $54 billion:

- Spending for Medicare, Medicaid, Children’s Health Insurance Program,
and Federal Employees Health Benefits could fall ~$41 billion over the
next decade (with the greatest savings in Medicare).

- Federal tax revenues could rise by ~$13 billion as lower health insurance
costs for employers could lead to higher take-home pay for employees
and therefore higher income taxes for USA Inc.

Source: Congressional Budget Office, Letter to the Honorable Orrin G. Hatch dated October 9, 2009; Congressional Budget
Pp Office, Letter to the Honorable John D. Rockefeller iV dated December 10, 2009
(@E) www.kpcb.com USA Inc. | What Might a Turnaround Expert Consider? 314

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020998
