for them to know why the work is impt.
You and leon ok with this?
Will call you to discuss.

Date: Thu, May 12, 2016 at 12:17 PM
Subject: tight schedule lets try a set time to speak
To: Melanie Spina ii iit
Leon, you hired me to produce a work of art. it was not inexpensive. the value far exceeds any other
piece in your collection.- by FAR. It took me 30 years to be able to craft such a work. I understand
your desire to modifiy my work, in doing so you have brad telling me , just a bit more red., here let me
show you, you yourself pick up a brush a add some strokes. you have joslin spray water on it to
maintain it. I vigorously complain that joslin in ruining my work .. you describe me as zeus, i describe it
as artist and a reaction to his work being ruined. however Im aware that you own the work and you
have the right to paint over it. tear it up , put it in the closet in the basement . its yours.
I was told that Toms office is sending someone in ,or some people in, to review some things. brad told
me ,the partnership accounting. I know absolutely nothing more than that. though bringing in his team was
my idea . Having them review things without even asking for my input , or let alone my direction ,is
ridiculous. but.. I guess you wanted to save money. ?
The audit has brought to the fore the lack of your office quality that i have been violently squawking
about. ie. children playing with works of art. . It is inconceivable to me that John castrucct is still there
, Joslin part time, but relied on . joe error prone and brad a corporate bandleader talking about the
office's finance team, accounting dept, and directing wendy to do things that are clearly not in your
interest. ( saving money again?) its nuts!! . a still non-existent IT dept. impossible , it was the first
thing on my list of things that were needed to be done. Still no trading accounts to speak of , though its
prophylactic quality has been discussed over and over during the past three years . computers do not read
Page Six. the women atthe IRS do.! you said your motivation in keeping this group of part timers
was a consequence of the high cost of my artwork. . the unfortunate result was easily predictable. -
now

If you want my and my atelier to continue, I will oversee the audits. take charge of the TRA BRH
assignments and review 2012 amendment options!!( note :your redo of the estate fire drill has not
progressed very far ). Lots of paper needs to be collected and reviewed, At MY direction. the outside
team will be brought in at my expense working for me and you. coming in for interviews and reviews, .
sucession, technology, tax and compliance. investment reporting , , computerized timelines for filings etc.
. household classifcations and reporting with a system of best practices.

My goal is clear - to end, not extend , our financial interactions. you will have a machine that works , it
will not be complexto oversee , to create it, is some thing else . Unfortunatley for us both, the price for
my works has not changed since day one. 40m per year, I m willing to discount it to 35 as I did give
you a bad number when asked and should pay an embarassment fine. Im also aware, as you made
perfectly clear . that you have already paid what you consider a great deal of money, for my work , but
again its value exceeds anything else by far in your collection at a cost less than agreed upon. . please
also remember that you and i agreed no more demands on my time after the last payment for the big
transaction.

OR, you can decide that brad , tom , and whomever else you choose can screw with my work and they
can oversee your audits . they are both aware and sensitive to the issue at hand. alan could be brought
in but 1 would be extra careful having paul weiss given access to entire story.

_-On an unrelated note- you recently seemed shy to discuss certain things. , please be assured I make
no judgement on any of your activities , whether or not i agree with them . not my role I am always on
your side on the table. I hope your personal life quiets. you 've had a rough 15 months.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023238
