too, I told her I had to go start packing. We were leaving the next
morning off to N.Y.C. At fifteen most girls would be sucking up to their
parents to go to a high- school dance or to go on a date to the movies with
a nervous chap, but I wasn' t even asking her. I was simply letting her
know that I would be away for the next couple weeks, maybe three and
would keep in contact when I got free time. Her daughter was lost a long
time ago, and she just now realized it. Backing out of the bathroom, with
nothing she could say, she left me wondering to myself who I was
becoming.
Instead of driving me to work the next morning my Dad dropped me off
at Jeffrey' s mansion, he told me not to worry about calling Mar-A-Lago,
33
34
I1 Copyright Nora tcd Material
CONFIDENTIAL
fl Copyright protected Mat, ­ 1
GIUFFRE004166 CONCIDENRAL G11 JITRLOO4167
he' d take care of it for me. We said our good-byes outside in the
driveway, Jeffrey even coming outside to meet with my father to shake
his hands and assure him that his daughter will be more than looked after.
I hugged my dad tightly, feeling like I was on the verge of a steep cliff,
when he let go, so did the last of my innocence.
Juan drove Jeffrey, Ghislane and I to Palm Beaches' Private Airport
and the luggage handlers escorted us on the tar mat where we all boarded
on Jaffrey' s black jet. Larry was his main pilot, he had shiny grey hair
and long lanky legs, but a very sincere smile that instantly made you feel
at ease. He greeted us at the staircase that led into the main cabin. It was
as lavish as I imagined it would be. The seats were enveloped in the finest
beige leather with polished wood grain finishes and there was a kitchen in
the back with an adjoining toilet. Jeffrey saw the amazement in my eyes
and to make it more thrilling he brought me up to the cockpit and let me
watch with a bird' s eye view of the take off. I was on a natural high when
I came back to the cabin and was instantly brought back down when
Jeffrey rested his bare feet on top of the reclined seat and instructed me to
get to work and start massaging him. My future was in his hands now, so
when he wanted something, I wouldn' t hesitate in giving it to him.
Chapter 6
Upon our arrival at New Jersey' s Private Airstrip, the driver Jo -Jo met
us. His name was most likely shortened for something of his oriental
decent. Jeffrey liked to shorten the names of his multi -cultural staff into
American names. Even Juan and Maria were known as John and Mary.
We arrived in the Upper East Side of Manhattan. His principal place of
residence was the largest home in Manhattan, eight stories of opulence. It
used to be a Private School for boy' s many years ago, until Les Wexner,
Jeffrey' s best friend and mentor bought it for him as a mysterious gift.
There were two large Chinese gargoyles outside the entrance, and
beside the heavy looking wooden doors there was an intercom with a
camera overlooking us. I walked up the concrete steps into a realm of
wealth, glamour and most of all influence. My eye' s glistened at the
splendor of his palace. Caramel colored marble tiles spread through the
first floor, where his gourmet kitchen and dining hall were also located.
Then I came to this sweeping staircase that curved into the next level
where Jeffrey and I went into his office, even though it looked more like
a museum exhibit. Ancient draperies that told lascivious stories of their
own covered parts of the elevated walls, and the remaining wall spaces
were taken up by rows on top of rows of books. He loved to read, as he
often found it hard to sleep and was comforted in the early morning hours
with his literature, or sometimes in other ways 1 would come to find out.
There was a mantle piece and a sofa with two armchairs next to the grand
piano that flaunted more of Jeffrey' s beautiful conquests, young women
posing in salacious pictures, suggesting I could be easily replaced next to
one of those girls if I failed in keeping him satisfied. There were also
some pictures with recognizable political and royal figures either shaking
Jeffrey' s hand, or with an ann around each other, even one with Jeffrey
and the Dali Lama, although his church was the bank. He liked to use his
power, wealth, and money to manipulate everyone in his life.
He made a phone call that sounded business like and I didn' t mind, I
was quite enjoying taking in all of the beauty around me, I was blinded
by all of it. I was still waiting for him when, Ghislane came in. She asked
me what I thought so far of my trip to N. Y.C, I knew she was talking
about the house, she loved to gloat, even though none of it actually
belonged to her, she wanted everyone to believe that it did. I
complimented her on the mid -evil looking tapestries and a few other
adornments, when she cut me off mid -sentence to compliment it herself,
telling me the history about one of the 17' century tapestry' s which to an
unsophisticated eye, looked to me like a rug on the wall.
Jeffrey hung the phone up and walked over to the sofa where we were
sitting next to the mantle piece and took a seat on one of the armchairs.
He didn' t seem worried from the phone call but his mind was definitely
somewhere else from the hard look on his face_ We all spoke for a few
moments more about the splendid decor before Jeffrey had enough small
talk and needed some of his own relaxation time. He told Ghislane he
was going to show me to the massage room and he' d be back in a couple
hours. She agreed he looked like he could use some time to unwind and
with that wry grin of hers, she gave me a look that told me precisely how
he was expecting to be relaxed.
We left his office all together, Ghislane going downstairs, and Jeffrey
showing me to the lifts. The lift looked like it' s original that came with
the school. It was made out of brass antique with archaic cuts throughout
the arches at the top. It wasn' t the only lift in the house, but certainly the
most beautiful. We walked down a long hall carpeted in a royal red and
golden trim, passing by a bronze pagan statue of the horny little goat God
Pan. How adequate, I thought, fit Jeffrey to a tee. We walked into this
dimly lit room. Another daunting chamber that looked like we had
stepped back in time to the dark ages. It took a second for my eyes to
adjust to the darkness, and Jeffrey beckoned me to follow him through
the room to the open adjoin shower, toilet and steam room. The room was
in black marble to accent the dreariness, and smaller than the one in Palm
35
K%
Copyright Protected Mateiiai
Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004168 CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRL'004169
Beach, but it had it' s own witchery feel to it. Another unseen side to this
Man 1 was coming to know.
We both undressed and I followed Jeffrey into the steam room first. He
loved feeling clean, teaching me that the steam would deplete the toxins
from your skin, which was great during a massage when your blood flow
is being replenished. I grabbed his foot out of instinct, knowing I had to
be constantly on alert to keep this man satisfied. He looked down at me
with nod and reclined back against the wall as the steam pored in, this
was his idea of alleviation. I worked up to his calves and within a few
more minutes, he said he was ready for his massage on the bed. We got
out and towel dried off, both still nude, he asked me to stay undressed,
then we headed to massage bed in the middle of the room. He lay down
on the bed and told me to turn on the CD player on the wall hutch, where
all of the oils and lotions were set out, I hit play and a collection of mixed
classical symphonies began to fill the silence. I could tell he wasn' t in
one of those moods to be uplifted with idle chat, so I remained silent,
letting him enjoy my slow movements, making my way up his body. My
instincts told me I was right about his mood, as he seemed to appreciate
the quietness of moment and the leisurely of the strokes I was using to
massage him. When I got to his scalp he turned over, and grabbed my
hand to put on his erect manhood. No words spoken yet, I took the
gesture and initiated what I had been taught over the last week. While
pleasing my master his hands groped my young flesh, penetrating my
insides with his fingers, he was only concerned with what he wanted, as
If I was a new car out for a test drive and he was pressing his new
gadgets. His soft moans were soon brought to louder heaves of breath and
my job was done. No intimate kisses, or sweet pillow talk. He showed his
appreciation with money, never attachment. We concluded with a shower
and he told me he had some business to conduct. He walked me to the lift
and told me go to the next level and my room was the first one on the
right, it had an intercom in which he can contact me when needed.
I hit number 5 on the lift and took his directions to my room. I opened
the door to this massive loft, the size of an adequate house. I walked
down the long hall and my eyes took in the magnificence of my
surroundings. It was a room fit for royalty, and later would find out had
been stayed in by some. The room was trimmed in gold paint and had
another eerie tapestry on the main wall as feature. There was a T.V and a
huge king sized bed, with goose feathered comforter and pillows.
All of the glitter from Jeffrey' s lifestyle he was offering me finally
covered the last bit of sight I had left and I let go of my consciousness.
Excited by my enthralling day, not having anyone around to have to act
reserved, I jumped into the soft bed and lay looking around, thinking
about how quick life could change based upon one swift decision. Dazing
into the artistry, the intercom buzzed on the telephone next to the bed and
it was a housemaid letting me know Jeffrey wanted to see me in his office
now.  Already I thought to myself, I wasjust getting settled in. I was
worried I was going to get lost in this ancient museum, but I got myself
back to his office with no trouble, it was kind of hard to miss. I knocked
at the slightly ajar door and Jeffrey called for me to enter. I walked over
to his desk, where he was just ending a phone call and he opened his
duffel bag full of money.  I' ll be out at my other office for most of the
day, so instead of being locked inside I thought you should go do some
sightseeing for the day since it is your first trip to the Big Apple He
didn' t count how much he was giving me he just handed me a bundle out
of the banded $ 100 dollar bills. He knew just how pull the right strings,
making me squeal in delight and give him a kiss in the cheek, since we
were never really emotionally intimate, it would be odd to act in any
other way, but he seemed to like it.
I ran upstairs to get dressed for  City shopping and put my make- up
on, then hit the streets of N.Y.C, looking for a place to start spending this
load of dosh. When 1 got to the end of 72 A street on 5th Avenue, I had no
idea which way to turn, left or right. I thought I' d just follow the lights
past Central Park and see the local sights on my way. My eyes were once
again peeled back in splendor. I had never imagined a place so busy with
the hustle and bustle of all the walks of life. My first stop was to buy a
disposable camera and I was off taking photos of every wonder that
caught my attention. I didn' t do much shopping as I had planned too; I
was having too much fun exploring this capacious metropolitan.
When it started to hit dusk I began walking back to Jeffrey' s but not
before stopping off to enjoy a giant slice of pepperoni pizza, it was the
best I had ever had, and considering I was going back to Jeffrey' s
chickpea and tofu salad' s or such. I really hated the healthy cuisine
served by Jeffrey' s personal chef. I was a naturally skinny girl, never
watching what I ate and to eat that food I might as well have chewed on
hay. I strolled back to Jeffrey' s and was missed. Ghislane scolded me
You shouldn' t have been gone so long young lady,  We need to know
where you are at all times, you are on call for Jeffrey I started to
apologize, feeling guilty, I didn' t want them to think T didn' t take my job
with them seriously. She cut off my explanation with a short conclusion
to this conversation  We will get you a cell phone tomorrow, so we can
always find you. I thanked her for her generosity, and she dismissed me
to my room. So I wasn' t even needed after all, it was just a way for her to
place me deeper in their control. The next few days I was on call, as
Ghislane said I' d be. Venturing out to the city for only an hour or so at a
time, I looked most forward to my outings. I would return to Jeffrey' s
37
38
CI Copyright 11- ceted Material
Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004170 CONFIDENTIAL G1UFFRE004171
mansion to attend to his sexual desires and when he was finished with
me, I' d be off to my adventures.
On the day before we were to be heading back to Palm Beach, Jeffrey
had a new proposition for me. I could make double the money I was
making, if I would look for pretty girls and convince them to come back
to Jeffrey' s to be further persuaded with money to engage in bi- sexual
and sexual acts with Jeffrey and L I asked him how does one actually
propose such a thing to a complete stranger?  Well he said in a build up
to another kind of lesson.  If I were you I would use your charm to entice
them and my money to bring them, I would tell them you work for a
multi -billionaire who has a taste for young, beautiful girls and with his
contacts in the acting, modeling, or rich husband world, your boss could
help them. All they have to do is come meet me first. If I wasn' t so
naive at the time I would' ve seen that' s exactly what he was doing with
me, my prospects were massage credentials, but with too much pain from
my past, 1 could only have hope. Not that I was a shy girl, but picking up
girls for one reason alone, only to be endorsed for her body, didn' t sound
like something I could do. But not wanting to displease my master, I told
him that I would give it a go. You could tell he was instantly excited with
my agreement, he started to reveal the politics of what kind of girls he
was looking for. He wasn' t into multi -cultural girls, a very chauvinistic
perception; he said they had to be uniquely gorgeous to be accepted by
him, but definitely no African-American girls, he was racist against
anything different to his kind, a very narrow minded way of thinking for
such a supposed brilliant man. The list went on and on. No girls with
tattoo' s or piercing' s, or gothics, no drug users, or prostitutes. Basically
he wanted everyone' s daughter that looked like the girl next door, with
blue eyes and blonde curly ringlets. I just nodded and smiled, wanting
this to be over with and move on to another conversation, but so worked
up from our previous talk, instead he persisted to show me exactly what I
was good for to him. He took me up to the highest loft in his large
mansion and he lay down on his large bed, expecting me to know exactly
what he wanted done. As always, I complied. Part of me hating him for
having to degrade myself to be so subservient to his sexual whims, and
another part of me was telling myself to be grateful for the opportunities I
was being given.
The battles in my head were beginning to cause me too much anxiety,
when we got back to Palm Beach, I asked my Mom to make me a
doctor' s appointment for some headaches I had been getting lately, so she
wouldn' t question me. I walked out of the doctor' s with a prescription for
a mind -altering anxiety tablet called  Xanax, not only did it help with
anxiety but it also acted as blanket over terrible memories. So when I had
to perform degrading acts, I would take a few pills and forget what
happened within the next hour and be able to become someone without a
battling conscious.
I spent my sweet 16' birthday on his island in the Caribbean next to
St. James Isle he liked to call it  Little St. Jeffs, his ego was as
enormous as his appetite for fornicating. I was given a birthday cake and
a new collection of designer make- up from London. Ghislane made a
joke after I blew out my array of candles and said,  I' d be soon getting
too old for Jeffrey' s taste, and soon they' d have to trade me in. She was
only halfjoking in a sad reality though. A few days after my birthday, a
girl was flying out to the island to join us for a few days before flying
back to N. Y.C. I was introduced to a pretty girl a few years my senior,
named Sarah. She had long ash blonde hair and big brown eyes that
hinted she had a cheeky nature. She had known Jeffrey before I had, and
he was supposedly trying to help her get an acting job in L. A. She was
obviously accustomed to the lifestyle he provided her, making it ever so
apparent with her prompt attention she lavished on him. She would do
things like strip nude and bathe around the swimming pool, taunting him
for sex. She was good at what she did, even putting me at ease with her
cool persona and funny jokes. Jeffrey told me privately that she was one
of his best at procuring young girls into her entrapment and delivering
them to him when he was in town, and when it came to time in the private
chambers with Jeffrey, Her and I, it wasn' t hard to comprehend. She was
devoted to the moment, giving Jeffrey every imaginable lustful desire he
could fathom. On the last night there we all took a trip over to St. James
to go for a stroll, odd I thought, it was past 7pm and Jeffrey rarely strayed
out past then, unless it was some event or dinner party. While Ghislane
and him looked the average couple strolling arm in arm through the
streets, he said to Sarah and I,  Why don' t you two hit the night club here
and see if there is anyone interesting to bring back for the evening? It
was more of an order than a request and then 1 knew why we came out
tonight and why Sarah was invited, tonight was all about training, and
Sarah was going to show me the ropes in picking up girls. Although there
was no one to accustom to Jeffrey' s distinct taste to bring back, watching
Sarah flirt from girl to girl like a floating butterfly, gave me enough
insight into what I was expected to do.
Within Months I had become his handy little helper. Not only would I
nm to his beckon call, but I also aided Ghislane in bringing in more girls
to keep the appetite of our sexually starving chief from going hungry. I
once asked Ghislane, why she did what she did for him, instead of having
a common monogamous relationship and getting jealous like normal
partners would? She replied simply  It takes the pressure off me having
to do it. That said it all, we were all tinder the shade of Jeffrey' s money
tree, and not even someone like her could escape from its lure.
39
40
LI Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDEN1 1AL
Copyright Protected Material
GIUFFRE004172 CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004173
Just like Ghislane had trained me it was now my job to reiterate that
onto other girls and thus the cycle of girls trying to climb the chain of
hierarchy would start all over each time I brought a new one in. The
sessions rarely differed much. They would mostly start out with Jeffrey
on top of the massage table already naked and me leading a girl into
massaging him until his instructions came to remove our clothing and if
they agreed to that, then Jeffrey knew he had them in his pocket, and
could do what ever else he wanted. He was never turned down in the
many years I stayed with him. Never being shy, he would tell us to start
kissing each other or depending on what he wanted we would perform
erotic acts sometimes with him fondling us, or just masturbating while he
watched. On explicit occasions, sex toys would be used on us girls,
making it all the more exciting for him to observe. Ending with a
payment of $200 for the new girl and $400 to me for bringing her. He
would then wait for us to leave before adding the events details of names
and payments in a little black diary he kept with him wherever he went,
so if he were in anyone of the city' s he lived in, he would always have
contacts for sex.
I was slowly climbing the ladder, as Jeffrey was happy taking me
everywhere with him, within the States. Merely at home I distanced
myself from my Family altogether and with Jeffrey renting me an
apartment in Royal Palm Beach as well as a plush furnished apartment in
N. Y. C, there was hardly a need to see them. I just couldn' t face everyone
thinking they all knew what I was really doing travelling around with a
man old enough to be my grandfather who supposedly only wanted me
for massages. Much further convincing myself of the lies I told myself, I
took a liking to the Xanax, it felt like it was all a dream at times, even
meeting up with old contacts from school years who experimented with
drugs. I was flying around the country, seeing so many places in America
I had only heard about in Movies and making more money than anyone
my age and loving it. My friends didn' t believe the lies I told them about
only being a massage therapist, some of them even asking if they can
meet Jeffrey too. At this point in my life my heart went missing for a
while and I stooped so low, I was even bringing my friends, I just saw
them as easy commission. When I wasn' t playing servant to my master, I
was partying hard, eventually using ecstasy pills, acid, and marijuana to
disillusion the times I would' ve had away from Jeffrey to think about
what I was actually doing with my life. I realized something one day
while I was alone, although I had Jeffrey to attend to sexually, it was not
gratifying. I needed someone to come home to, someone I could call my
boyfriend and that showed me emotion not just a job to get done.
Chapter 7
A knock came to my apartment door one lazy afternoon while we were
in Palm Beach. I looked through the peephole and didn' t recognize the
once familiar face. I asked from behind the closed door  Who is it? The
voice of the reply was one I wasn' t anticipating to ever hear again. It was
my Junior -High crash and childhood friend, T. J. The last time I saw him I
was a runaway and he had let me stay at his house for a few days, telling
his parents nothing, he kept me hidden away in his room. At nightfall he
said to knock on his window and I could jump through and stay the night.
Until I was picked up by authorities during school hours and questioned
why I wasn' t in school they did some resourcing finding out I was a
runaway, then delivered me back to my angry parents.
Oh My God- You finally answer your door girl, and in a whirlwind,
T.J stormed back into my life. Even moving into my apartment, secretly,
within two weeks of his arrival. He had changed so much from the last
time I had seen him. He used to be this hard looking rocker type, now he
was cleaned up wearing preppy clothes and shooting out Tupac Lyrics.
He had the same old big brown eyes though, and when he told me lie had
heard I was back in town but he was unable to ever get ahold of me he
just kept knocking at my door every so often, I was sold. How sweet I
thought, he must care about me if he was so intent on approaching me,
not even thinking he would' ve spoken to the girls from our junior -high
circle and they would' ve mentioned him I was back in town, what I was
doing and where to find me. We were a drug- induced romance, which
budded from fake emotions the affects made us feel. He got what he
wanted, a free ride and not having to work, and I got what I deserved, a
man who could let me go away with this multi -billionaire I regarded as
my second boyfriend.
I didn' t want to alarm Jeffrey in me having a boyfriend so I kept it
quiet, until during a massage I was giving to him one afternoon. We were
having a conversation about some of my friends, the party girls I had
brought in to meet him. Jeffrey started asking questions about the
different types of drugs they used hearing them speak about it in his
presence.  I thought a person on drugs would be all strung out and
looking like hell, but the girls you know look great he stated face down
during the massage.
That' s when I told him I had been dabbling in ecstasy lately too, and I
thought it was the most amazing feeling one could even fathom. I tried to
describe the euphoric feelings it gave me and even joked with him about
wanting to pet anything furry that was around and then there was the
constant need to flick my tongue -ring around my mouth. It was great
41
42
I I Copyright Protected Material
CONI' InLNrIAL
L Copyright Protected Material
GIUFFRE'004174 CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRL'004175
having such an open conversation about things Jeffrey had never
experienced before and he seemed okay with everything I was telling him
as we were having a good laugh together, so I thought I could push it a bit
further and tell him the truth about T. J, since it was bound to come out
sooner than later I' d rather not the latter, when it would look even worse
that I kept the truth from him for so long.
Well why were opening up about things together, 1 continued by
saying  I had met someone from my past and we have been hanging out a
lot lately. When 1 haven' t been travelling with you I have been with him
and I was wondering if you minded if 1 started to see this guy. He started
to laugh out loud,  Are you serious? Of course not, no one in this world is
monogamous, why would I expect you to be? I was smitten with relief,
but a little bit dis- heartened when I heard him speak that way and I
wondered to myself if he' d had his own personal encounter with
heartache.
Of course the evening concluded in the same way it always had, the only
reason I was really even there in the first place. Upon his request I
straddled him on top of the table and let him explode with pleasure inside
of me. Thinking the entire time about T. J, I felt so terrible but I quickly
had to wipe the thoughts of guilt from my mind not to give Jeffrey the
wrong impression. So I had myself busy with two men in my life, but
that' s not what I really wanted for myself. I wanted an occupation that
would eventually set me free from depending on a man as my source of
survival.
1 asked Jeffrey before I left for the evening, when my real training was
going to begin and he liked my assertiveness. I thought it meant to him
that I was taking my job with him seriously, but it was all part of his
master plan to keep me by his side. Within a couple of weeks of my
persistence, Jeffrey introduced me to a couple of real working massage
therapists, not only with credentials but with their own clientele too. I
was in awe of their teachings, it all made so much sense about the body
and what they were saying. I felt like I had picked myself up out of the
lurches and had a direction again.
I was in the middle of another training session, with Jeffrey the
recipient as usual, being it was rare for Ghislane to ask for a massage
unless of course it was for Jeffrey' s own pleasure to watch the punch line
of the session, when I was shocked to hear Jeffrey ask one of the
therapists to now remove her shirt. He had no shame I thought. Even
though she was above his usual age criteria, she was still a pretty woman
in her early 30' s with curly blonde hair and had an athletic body for a
mother of two children. She didn' t hesitate in his request. It looked like
something out of a role-playing porn scene with the therapist removing
her white uniform to reveal her beautiful nude body and a much darker
side to her personality.
I couldn' t believe it at first it was such a state of shock and i began to
question t myself if this was non -nal in the massage profession to expect
this kind of clientele to request such degrading tasks even though they
were professionals. At the end of the session she was paid $300 dollars an
additional hundred for helping to train me as well, and I was paid my
usual $ 200 dollars then we were both invited by Jeffrey to join him out
by the pool for a cool dip. With Jeffrey making a few phone calls while
her and 1 undressed again for a swim, l wanted to ask her a few personal
questions about what she' s come to learn about the Massage Therapy
game, but I never got the chance as we were joined by Ghislane moments
later. She was asking how my training was going and booked the
therapist in for herself in the following morning. Where she was invited
back to do another training session with me. It didn' t take me long to
figure out why.
I was at my apartment when I received a phone call from Jeffrey, I
thought it was the usual call to come over to his house, but he surprised
me. Instead I would be going to the exclusive hotel in Palm Beach
tonight, The Breaker' s, where I would be meeting my first ever clients.
Only told their first names I was given some instructions and the address
where to meet Glen and Eva. They were a married couple with one on the
way. I was quite concerned when I heard she was pregnant, being I really
didn' t know the body that well and didn' t want to inflict any wrong doing
on the unborn baby but Jeffrey insisted I take this job. Just massage her
gently where she wants to be rubbed and to save all of my energy for
Glen' s massage, since it was going to be a four-hour job. In an
emphasized tone of voice I was being coached by Jeffrey to treat Glen
with exactly whatever he wanted, just like I do for Jeffrey himself. It was
my last bit of preparation before he sent me out to his friends and my first
taste of responsibility in upholding his reputation.
At around seven pm I took a taxi to the address I was given and found
them on the residential side of the giant hotel' s extensive property. When
I arrived in their apartment it was a far cry from the lavish place I was
expecting, still really nice but had a cozier family feel to it. It was just
beginning to get dark when Eva and I went into the Master Bedroom and
she undressed to reveal the first naked pregnant body I had ever seen. It
was fascinating to see her in the later stages of maternity, and strangely
enough it was a miraculous and wondrous sight. She was a former model
and one of Jeffrey' s many entourages from his past that had gotten to old
for his taste and was married off to a wealthy colleague of his.
Lying down on the bed I adjusted the pillows to try and make her more
comfortable and 1 began to massage her as Jeffrey had instructed me to,
43
44
II Copv ght proiectod Material
i] Copyright protected Matorial
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004176 CONPIDEN' I 1AL GlUITRE004177
softly and slowly. So at ease with her nude body she even asked me to
massage her swelling breasts, in a non- sexual way. Not knowing any
other way but that way, I was trying to oblige in her request doing the
very best I could to relieve her but couldn' t help but giggle to myself at
the very sight of this. She said she was very happy at the end of the
massage and rolled over to go to sleep, asking me to turn out the light at
the end of it. I closed the door gently as if not to disturb her, and went to
find my other client.
The apartment' s lights had been turned out for the sleeping children and
I found Glen awaiting for me in the lounge room where I had to call out
Excuse me? as I couldn' t see him in the dark. There was a throw rug on
the ground that he had already placed out as he began to strip down in
preparation of the massage. Lying frontwards facing me with his exposed
and ever growing manhood, I asked him to roll over to begin the
massage. He complied with a cheeky smile and from his eagerness to
show he was not shy indeed, I already knew where this was going to end
up.
I found it much more strenuous to massage on the floor but I wouldn' t
let that hold me back I wanted to have a career and this being my first
ever clients, I didn' t want them to disapprove. Nearly four hours after I
had gotten there I was still hard at work. Mentally preparing for the end
of the session he let me know when he was ready to begin the other side
to my job and just like Jeffrey did the first time, he requested me to take
off my clothes starting with my shirt. When I complied, the requests kept
coming in and before I could change my mind and run away, I was
having intercourse with this man that was so comfortable doing all of this
while his pregnant wife and children slept in the room beside us. When
he had climaxed, we both got up and dressed and he paid me a large tip
even though Jeffrey would be the one to actually pay me for my time
spent there. Just like it had all started, it had also ended so quickly and
now that was that. 1 had to accept what my duties were and now I could
go back to Jeffrey who would be further pleased in my demonstrations to
keep him happy.
I was called the next morning to come over to Jeffrey' s mansion that
afternoon for hmch, a swim and of course a massage session. Knowing
all too well they' d be expecting the gory details of last nights events with
my new clientele. I came there at 1pm as requested and sat down for a
light lunch and a swim. Jeffrey was mostly conducting business from his
offside pool office, but he came to ask me if everything went well the
night before. I told him I did everything asked of me and I am quite
confident both my client' s were more than pleased with me. He gave me
a quick grin, before he headed back to the office, throwing a purple grape
down his throat as he walked away.
Lying out on one of the pool decks blue and white striped lounge beds
I was waiting for Jeffrey to finish his business so I could give him his
massage. He never took too long with his work, unless there was
something wrong and then we would all have to wear his mood but today
he seemed fine though, when we went up the stairs he told me we would
be leaving for his ranch in Santa Fe', New Mexico in the morning and I' d
need to be packed and ready tonight. They loved leaving in the spur of
the moment, Jeffrey once said he checks with his pilot Larry on the best
weather before he heads to a different destination. I enjoyed spending
time at his ranch being it was my favorite of all of his residences. He had
a lavish Mediterranean looking castle on top of a hill that over looked his
extensive 7, 500 acres of property. It has an indoor pool, gym, and all the
trimmings of extravagance I could only imagine. I had a great time on the
quad bikes, Sarah and I often got scolded for tipping one over going to
fast or trying to go up a steep hill, but we knew those weren' t the things
he cared about, so it wouldn' t matter. My favorite of it all was his little
town with it' s own fire station and truck, stables full of horses, and little
cottages where the housekeepers and ranch hands lived.
On my own time I would take one of the quad bikes down to the
stables and saddle up on one of his beautiful horses and go for a ride in
the open terrain. It was coming up to the end of a very cold winter and it
still had the snow covered mountaintops and brisk air that I loved to take
in during my many trail rides. I have been an experienced horse rider
since my childhood, and could honestly pinpoint some of the best
memories of my life being on the back of a horse. I acclaimed with thrill
in my voice  Great, I' ll get packed as soon as I get back to my apartment
he threw in  Pack for a few weeks, as we will also be making a pit stop
to L.A for some business afterwards and then to N. Y. C. I was used to
these round trips with him, it was great as I was saving loads of cash and
about to buy myself my first car.
Jeffrey, Ghislane, Emmy and I all left the following morning, as
planned. Arriving in only a few hours at his awe- inspiring Santa Fe
Palace was always a delight. Still frisk in the air, my petite frame looked
even smaller in these gigantic overcoats. Nonetheless I was looking
forward to spending time out in the fresh clean air and open land. After a
few days of leisurely spending our time on the ranch, we went to the
Indian markets in Albuquerque for a bit of shopping and sight seeing.
Jeffrey wasn' t the most off road kind of guy, so when we went sight
seeing it was more like museums, boutique shopping, and local art
galleries. Still a splendid trip though. With me picking up a few nifty
collectables to bring back for my family and knowing how much my
mom loves Indian apparel, I thought it would put me back in her good
books for awhile, I hoped at least. There was some lengthy time to put a
45
46
Copyright Protected Mate -1
Copyright Protected Matc W
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004178 CONFIDEN'r1AL G1UITRE004179
little water under the bridge between my folks and 1. With my life
heading in a different direction l didn' t see any use in holding on to so
much hate especially that I didn' t even have to see them that much.
We got back to  Zorro Ranch, the name Jeffrey chose to call the
massive land he bought to build his fortress on, and Jeffrey told me that
he was looking forward to one of my famous relaxing massages and with
that notion he gave my bags of shopping to one of the many housemaids
who greeted us at the front door and asked her to bring my bags to the
exquisite room I was staying in. We headed straight downstairs just past
the massage room and gym there is an indoor heated pool, shower and
spa. First Jeffrey wanted to warm up in the spa underneath a decorated
ceiling of clouds and blue skies. Starting the massage in the spa I rubbed
his feet while he reclined into the spa' s jets. We spoke of the museum and
some of the knick- knacks I had bought and I thanked him for the
turquoise earrings and necklace he had got for me as a gift, joking about
not ever knowing what to get for him, being that he was richest man I' d
ever known. By no far means did we ever have any kind of a mutual
respectful bond between us, but there was a significant softer side he
began to share with me that was different from how he treated his other
girls. Maybe it was my feet that filled the shoes for that time being, or the
fact my novelty hadn' t worn off yet, but what ever it was I was getting
confused from the double -sided life I was leading.
He got up from the spa tub shortly thereafter and asked me to come
wash him in the shower. It was nothing unordinary to me, I was used to
his need to be nurtured and pampered. 1 performed his request with a
cheerful mannerism, letting him think 1 was taking care of him out of my
sheer sweetness. I got the towels ready for him to get out of the shower
and towel dried him, patting his skin instead of rubbing as previously
instructed.  You know you have a very maternal instinct, you' ll make a
fine mother someday, he would constantly acclaim at my gentleness.  I
hope so 1 replied, I would love to have my own babies one day, but not
any time soon. Laughing at the very thought of that.
We walked up the steps and through the French doors into the gym' s
adjoining massage room. It was smaller room than in his other houses,
placing the emphasis on the large massage bed in the center. I grabbed
another clean towel to keep him warm while I prepared the music, lights,
and oils. He liked me to use mostly lavender or other aromatherapy
scents, which reminded me of woodlands in the spring. Always enjoying
the beginning of the massage, I put my heart and soul into training in my
profession. I could just close my eyes I would see only with my hands the
areas that needed the most work, and even though I wasn' t a professional
yet, Jeffrey could feel and told me there wasn' t many that could please
him during a massage being untrained. I' m sure now it was just
something he' d say nice to all the girls, but in the time I had known him l
could honestly say it wasn' t like him to compliment girls in any other
way than regards to a sexual performance or their looks. I was flattered at
his praise and when the massage was over, so were the sentiments. I was
back to being used for my body and what I could do with it.
With him satisfied and off for a nap, I could go do what ever I wanted,
like usually I would go down to the stables or something adventurous, but
today I was in a melancholy mood, just wanting to relax and unwind
myself in a giant tub in my bathroom. 1 got out some of the oils I used on
Jeffrey putting them in the steaming water and popped two of my Xanax
pills, forgetting about my troubles and focusing on the quiet moment at
hand, just wanting to soak up the peacefidness of it. Nearly slipping away
to sleep in the tub, I was startled when I got the call on the intercom to
come down for dinner.
Everybody seemed in good spirits at dinner, which helped to lift mine.
We all ate our meals and went into the movie room to watch a newly
released movie. It was a ritualistic scenario, most nights that everyone
was at ease we would all sit in one of his various located movie rooms
and hang out together. Just as he always would Jeffrey asked Emmy and
me to both grab a foot during the movie that night and just keep
massaging through the film. We were always on call for duty, no matter
where we were or what ever time it was. He would just plop a foot up or
pass over his hand at any given time and require a massage, even if the
film went on for over two hours, I would still be required to sit on the
floor rubbing his feet or hands, and even his scalp at times. After the
credits had rolled Ghislane got up to close the door to the room and I
knew she had received the signals herself and would proceed to
manipulate, violate, and use us to satisfy Jeffrey' s urges once more before
he went to bed.
The blue illumination from the empty T.V screen was glaring in the
tenebrous room as we watched her undress in a light that relied on the
reflection of the moon through the windows peek to show it' s proceeding
display. She walked back to the sofa where I was sitting at Jeffrey' s feet
still rubbing away and uncovered her shirt displaying ample bosoms for
his appeal. Approaching me like a lioness hunting her prey she stood me
up and led me to the other couch across from Jeffrey and situated herself
on top of me, sliding her fingers through my dress to unbutton my attire,
revealing my girlish figure and two small peaks. Pushing my head into
her breasts I was being fondled by Emmy at the same time, which took
her cue when she saw Ghislane look in my direction. From an occasional
glance upwards, I could see that Jeffrey was up to his methodical foreplay
stroking his manhood while watching the build up to his main event.
They both took turns making me moan from their touches and when
47
48
Copyright Protected Material
U Copyright Protected Mammal
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004190 CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004 181
Ghislane was ready too she would insinuate we do the same to her. She
urged me downwards, until my head was between her opened legs and
giving into her wanton indulgence. Twenty minutes passed before Jeffrey
exerted his last energies for the night, the only advantage of being with an
old man was they could never last long.
Departing to our own separate quarters for the night, I called T. J for
condolence. It was so important for me to feel like I had someone out
there who saw me as more than a pretty girl with vulnerabilities. I needed
to maintain some sort of a connection to my youthful side. But it would
be to no avail as I was getting used to being badly disappointed by all the
men in my life.
Chapter 8
The phone nearly rang out and as I was about to hang up the receiver
when he finally picked up. On the other end of the phone I could hardly
hear T.J above the background noises. When I asked where he was he
told me  At our place baby, meaning the apartment Jeffrey had rented
for me to be staying in alone. He already sounded off his chops
elongating his words and slurring his speech. There was music pumping
and people shouting behind him and every one sounded like they were
having a great time. I was so sick of his friends coining over using my
house as a place to party and then trashing it so bad I would even have to
sometimes throw my furniture out. I blew up at him over the phone and
threatened to kick him out, back to his parent' s house, so much for my
relaxing evening I thought to myself venturing on to tell him  You leech
off me using the money I leave behind for you for drugs and throw these
gigantic parties while I' m away. Also mentioning the disastrous messes
I would come home too.  I am so close to ending it with you, I would
openly threaten, but he knew better than I did, that I just couldn' t bring
myself to do so, needing some attachment to my youth through all of this.
Don' t worry baby he would say attempting to soothe me with his false
words going on to tell me how much he was missing me and how he was
always thinking about me when I was away which was like all the time.
1 would soon be buttered up and soft for serve. This was my penalty for
choosing a guy that accepted my lifestyle with my  Other -Man as I had
so eloquently put it to him once as not only acceptable but deemed it
Cool. The conversation ended with an easy good-bye and no  I-Love-
You' s or anything sweet. We weren' t those kinds of partners yet, so
much time spent away from each other and the lifestyles we both led, I
couldn' t expect much more from him than what we already had.
Jeffrey and I left two days later, heading off to Cannel in California for
a business trip of his, leaving Ghislane and Emmy to catch a commercial
flight back to N.Y.C, where we would meet up with them later. When we
arrived at the hotel we were given badges for the meeting tomorrow and
settled into our rooms. We got adjoining rooms, keeping the doors open
at all times, but sleeping in different beds. He liked sleeping alone, even
after late night session I would always go back to my own room. I think
that' s why he liked me so much I never put pressure on him to become
intimately more than what we were already, never giving him the
impression I wanted more than what we had. It seemed to keep him
happy just the way we were together. I bung out with Jeffrey that night,
going to a restaurant for dinner and afterwards watching a movie back at
the hotel.
The next morning we went for an early morning breakfast before the
conference and Jeffrey gave me some money to go shopping instead of
attending the all day meeting with him. I was more than obliged to accept
his request, and wished him a good day before planning to meet back in
the room around six pm. He gave me five hundred dollars. He said it was
just enough to go have fun for the day and a girl of my means could find
plenty to do with that kind of money. I walked around the many
boutiques that lined the streets of the picturesque cozy town, and picked
up some bits of clothing here and there and even met a girl who was
passing through on a road trip. She was somewhere in her late teens with
golden sunshine tresses, olive skin and blue eyes. Her name escapes me,
as it was so unexpected, I think it was Tina or something like that but she
was your typical California carefree chic, offering me a few tokes of her
jay as we ducked down a side street together. I was so happy I had met
this girl, as she was fun spirited and charismatic a relief from the social
expectations I had come to know lately, but always being  on- call as I
had been trained up to be, I ended up inviting her back to meet Jeffrey at
our hotel later on as a surprise for him. Maybe she was just a bit too
carefree for Jeffrey' s taste but anyhow she was pretty enough to let him
be the judge of that matter.
Over the next hour of hanging out together I found out that she was on
a road trip with her best friend who was still sleeping off the hard night of
partying from the night before. She was originally from the southern
states as she had a bit of draw still left in her accent, and she had recently
left her boyfriend because he was leaving for a college too far away not
believing in long distance relationships. Then it was my turn to dish out
my contribution to the conversation of getting to know each other better. I
always got anxiety before I would tell a girl what I did for work and
romance ( as such), morally I was ashamed of who I was especially with a
girl having led somewhat of a normal life. Next, as always, I expected to
49
50
U Copyright Protected Material
U Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUITRE004182 CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRL0041U
be probed with so many more questions and having to make Jeffrey
sound ideal and hot for the taste of a young girl and knew I would be
point blank lying, so I told her some of the truth which was that he was
really rich and paid good money for a massage and useful to have around
as a contact. I told her he' d give her two hundred dollars for a two- hour
massage with me leading the way and warning her he was known to be
frisky during the session. Unexpectedly she said she could use the money
and then came the part that I hated the most, but had to do so they
wouldn' t be as shocked as I was the first time I had met him.  He does
like us to be nude though and sometimes asks for more than just the
massage itself'. All I could do was wait for a response after a shocking
sentence like that, and depending on the girl, most were sadly taken back
by the money. Her carefree attitude seemed to disillusion for a moment
when she gave it some thought and asked me  He' s not like, fat and ugly,
is he? 
No ... no ... not at all I replied,  He' s got more of a Richard
Gere appeal to him. Trying to make him sound a little more measurable
than just a rich old man that likes to be with girls younger than half his
age.  Well then, what time shall we meet tonight? She asked next.
Great, I thought, Jeffrey would be most pleased with my find.  Knock on
my room quietly, you' re going to be a surprise. Be there at around half
past seven tonight and I will introduce you to Jeffrey. She threw the butt
of the second jay we shared in the bushes and we strolled into a
homemade fudge boutique to get some relief for the munchies we now
had.
When I got back to the hotel at around a quarter to six o' clock pm as
requested 1' d be, nobody was back yet, so I took the time to set up the
oils and bath in my room for his massage tonight. I thought I would plan
it so the girl would be cleaning off, as Jeffrey liked before he had sexual
contact with a new girl and he could walk in and be surprised to find a
strange beautiful girl in my room who wanted to massage him. Jeffrey
walked through the door not long after I was done prepping for the night
ahead, looking like he had a rough day at the office, which was very rare
for him. He sat down on the bed and I asked him how his day was. He
didn' t want to talk much about it, saying it was boring and long, rather
asking what I got up to for the day. Being coy about having a jay and his
unexpected surprise to come, I told him it was a great day of shopping
and sight seeing and I even brought him back some local made Ridge
from the shop that had fulfilled my chocolate cravings only hours ago.
Telling him of the places I ventured into I mentioned to him  We' d
have to hit the fisherman' s wharf tomorrow. I saw some locals walking
around with breadbaskets filled with creamy clam chowder and it smelled
absolutely scrumptious. He said if the weather were nice we' d check it
out tomorrow before we left for L.A. He wanted to take off his jeans and
collared shirt and put on his normal attire of sweatpants and a sweatshirt.
Ushering him out the door for dinner when he was more relaxed I was
lucky when he said he was starving and quickly got dressed. We just
found a quite spot to eat that was next to the wharf and got back to the
hotel just in time for our surprise guest. He wanted to go have a shower
and settle down for a massage, so I told him I' d join him in a minute, I
just had to make a phone call real quick which he thought was odd and
asked me if everything was alright, I reinstated that I' d just be a minute,
trying not to let on about anything. The knock came quietly on my
room' s door just on time, as we had planned and I told her my idea to
surprise him. I let her into the bathroom where she orchestrated my plan
perfectly. Jeffrey finished his shower without me and when he called out
for me I told him that I needed him to have a look at something in my
room real quick. Not giving in to what it was that he would be looking at,
he came into the room where I opened my bathroom door to reveal a
beautiful nude girl bathing in a thick amount of soap bubbles in my tub
looking at him with an alluring intrigue. His grin went from ear to ear
when she stood up and introduced herself letting the bubbles run down
her glistening body at an ever -slow pace. It was a proud moment for
Jeffrey, I had done well in his eyes, and she was not like the other girls I
had brought to him before, degraded from a lifetime of abuse off the
streets. This girl was exactly his pro quo looking sweet and innocent as
the girl next door. My efforts were to show him I knew that my only
responsibility was to keep him happy at all costs. I led her through the
massage on Jeffrey and of course afterwards gratifying his perversion
with his lustful requests to be fondled and watch us become more than
just friends. I didn' t feel too bad at the time with his coercion providing
many financial rewards making his scheme enticing to a young,
impressionable teen not realizing the terrible memories left to come from
all of this. Afterwards he paid her the usual two hundred dollars he gave
to everyone for their time and took down her name and phone number
writing it in his infamous little black book of the contacts he met in every
city but only the ones he really liked made it down in his records.
We went out the next afternoon as I had suggested last night and we ate
our clam chowder breadbaskets over looking the wharfs bay, watching
the seals playfully barking at each other on the rocks nearby. Shortly after
we were driven to the private airstrip and took off for Los Angeles. On
the plane was an unexpected visitor. Matt Groening the producer of the
The Simpson' s T.V show was catching a ride with us. I was so excited,
as I loved watching his show and acted like a star struck fan, asking him
everything from his initial idea for creating the show to where he got his
characters from. He told me it was all based on his own family make up,
51
52
Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENI IAL
Copynght Protected Material
GIUFFRE004184 CONFIDEN'r1AL GIUFFRE004185
but without the crazy father and son scenes of Homers hand around Bart' s
throat.
I was enjoying our conversation, when Jeffrey insisted that I give Matt
a foot massage throughout the duration of the short flight. I never turned
down a client but when I saw the shape of his feet, I nearly threw up at
the thought of having to touch them. He had yellow crusty toenails that
even someone with a chainsaw would' ve had troubles cutting through
and then there was the fluffy balls of leftover pieces of sock wedged
between the crevices of his sweaty toes, now that was the real icing on
the cake for me, no way could I attempt this I thought. Then I had an
idea. I went to the back of the plane and rinsed a wash cloth in warm
soapy water and returned for his dreaded foot massage but not before
attempting to clean them first.
In return for my services Matt was kind enough to draw me two quick
sketches on blank paper from his briefcase of my two favorite characters,
Homer and Bart. I asked if he would make them out to my little brother
and dad, the true fans of the family not missing an episode during dinner
over the past ten years or so. Next to the A- 4 size drawing he was able to
fit in the quote  To my greatest fan from Matt Groening and their names
next to it. I knew they' d absolutely love it, and it was such a nice gesture
his feet were no longer an issue as I laughed it off and even made a joke
to the comedian about getting a pedicure before hitting L.A' s beaches.
The flight was only short and we arrived in busy L.A within the hour,
saying Good -Bye to Matt, who was a pleasure to meet. Jeffrey had a
meeting at a production studio for one of the girls he was keeping lured in
his grasps, so we were off yet again for more business. We were staying
with one of his old girlfriends, Jeffrey' s code for  She got to old for my
taste, but was still nice enough to keep around. She was a tall blonde
with blue eyes, a stereotypical Barbie doll. In her younger years she had
been a successful model and now lived on the beaches of Santa Monica
with a sweeping view of the oceans landscape as her backyard.
The next morning Jeffrey and I went out to breakfast. He said Sarah
Keller, would be joining us with another one of Jeffrey' s girls I hadn' t
met yet, her name was Nadia Bjorlin and she was a Yugoslavian model
turned aspiring actress, with the help of Jeffrey, as he so proudly
remarked at the table before they arrived shortly thereafter. She was a
stunning brunette with olive skin tones and shocking blue eyes. By far
one of the most beautiful girls I had ever met before. She and Sarah
approached the table, shopping bags in hands already in the early hours of
the day. They both pulled out a chair and showed us their new pair of
Jimmy Choo' s they had bought on their way here this morning, and
excitedly asked for Jeffrey' s opinion.. He loved the doting attention and
anyone who could make him feel important. We all went back to Sarah' s
apartment that Jeffrey rented for her on Malibu Beach. This was the first
time Jeffrey came to visit and when we got there you could see why. It
was a tiny one -bedroom shack, too small for his likes of accommodation,
but she loved it and it was plain to see why, the waves lapped underneath
her porch twice a day, what else could anyone want. Before even walking
through her door, you could hear the commotion of excitedly screaming
females voices coming from inside. There were about five other girls in
Sarah' s living room and she had invited them so Jeffrey could have a few
different girls to choose from. Jeffrey looked at Sarah and smiled, aren' t
you sweet, as all the girls rushed to introduce themselves, hoping for the
opportunities Sarah had offered them to come in the first place.
We all had some coffee and biscuits while the conversation kept getting
louder and louder, every girl trying to talk over the next one. Jeffrey
could handle only so much of that before getting too annoyed. Instead of
choosing one of the other new girls, Jeffrey wanted Sarah to show Nadia
and I into her bedroom. He was anticipating the introduction of his two
favorite girls together, what mischief he had hoped we would get up to
was apparent when he asked where Sarah had kept her play toys and not
the fisher price ones. Sarah brought out quite a collection of her personal
toys and was giggling on her way out as she shut the door. Suddenly the
room behind us went quiet, probably hoping to catch a moan or groans
too laugh at and I felt so degraded having everyone knowing exactly what
was going on. Knowing my duties well I was baffled this time as there
was no ritualistic massage wanted_ He immediately instructed us to start
kissing and fondling each other with the provided toys straight away
seeing his excitement grow watching us try and out do the other one with
pleasure, he couldn' t keep restraint any longer and started to have
intercourse with the both of us, taking his erect penis out of the other to
only swap to the other girl, back and forth. This continued for a good
fifteen minutes or so while we continued to engage in lesbian acts on
each other while the other girl was being subdued by Jeffrey' s thrust' s of
penetration. Nadia wasjust as dutiful as I was in fulfilling his demented
requests, willing to lend her body to Jeffrey and those he sent her too, for
the sake of keeping her acting career and putting on a good act at that.
She was never competition though. Once I found out where she actually
came from I took pity on her for the similar life of servitude we were both
accustomed too and not that we ever became good friends but we had
reason to relate to each other.
Later on Jeffrey, Nadia and I went to a production studio in L.A, where
we had to meet with Nadia' s agent as well as the producer of Day' s Of
Our Lives. The meeting lasted five minutes, with everyone in consent to
the proposal. We flew all the way out there to talk about money, only to
be leaving that evening back to N. Y.C. On the way to the airport we
53
54
Copyright Protected Material
Copyright Protested Material
CONFIDENTIAL OIUFFRE004186 CONFIDENTIAL OIUFFRL004187
stopped at a fifties looking diner and got a cheeseburger and vanilla
milkshake, the first and only time I saw Jeffrey eat what I considered to
be real food. Seven lanes to drive in and the freeway was still lined
bumper to bumper in the heavy rain. The sound of downpour on the
rooftop of the taxi and the rhythm of the windshield wipers was making
me sleepy. I was looking forward to sleeping through the long flight
back. Thank goodness we had a private jet to catch back, the trip would
be comfortable and not rushed to get there on time through the daily peak
hour traffic. Jeffrey asked me what I thought of Nadia, more of a kiss and
tell kind of thing for him, so proud to admit some of his tenacious acts of
pedophilia to me that I knew most people would be embarrassed to even
think aloud but I said what he wanted to hear when he asked me what I
had thought of her on the way back. I replied,  She is attractive, funny,
and seems to know what she is doing with you Laughing at my
statement, he then started to tell me the history behind where he got her.
Five years ago when she was merely a teenager just turned thirteen. Her
father had recently passed away, leaving Nadia' s mother in a tremendous
amount of debt and living in a third world country, she didn' t have the
means necessary to raise her own daughter. When Ghislane approached
Nadia for the first time at a music school, she seemed like a maternal,
caring stepmother. Telling Nadia' s mother if she let Nadia go with her,
she would se to it personally that Nadia receive the best education and
chances in life to make it. In her customs it wasn' t odd for a young girl to
be married off to bring the family good fortune, so she kissed her baby
girl good- bye and sent her off to commence her life of servitude. I sat
there speechless listening to Jeffrey brag about his endeavor to get her
over here, shocked that he could stoop as low to use a barely teen to
oblige his sexual desires. He was laughing and giddy as he replayed the
memories of her arrival over in his head, painting me a horrific picture I
had no choice but to imitate a smile to face him with.
No pretty girl is safe from the allurement of these villains procuring the
youth off of every street in the world. I knew that day more than ever
before those morals did not exist for people like this. Jeffrey once told me
that every girl he has had sexual relations with has benefited in their
career, finances, or an achievement in marriage with a successful
colleague of his. Mine was the massage career, ever so often still giving
me a lesson from a professional, which kept me quiet for a while longer.
I thought I was already knee deep in this world, if I gave up after putting
myself through all of this hell it would' ve all been be for nothing. So I
treaded lightly, constantly at a risk of being replaced by another willing
participant and playing the eager student he wanted me to be.
Chapter 9
We met Ghislane and Emmy in N. Y. C, and it wasn' t a blissful reunion
as I hoped for, wanting a break from all of this I was just looking forward
to getting back to Palm Beach, not leaving for a further four more days. I
got home late in the evening as Jeffrey invited me out to the movies atter
we had relaxed at his house for a while after landing.
I put my keys through the door to my apartment and walked in to a
quiet house. Not thinking anyone was at home I set my suitcase on the
floor and put my cell phone on charge as I always did to be accessible for
whenever Jeffrey or Ghislane could call. I went to get a drink out of the
fridge when I heard some noises coming from the back of my apartment
where my bedroom was. I started back there and slowly turned my
doorknob to reveal T.J on top of another girl. When they noticed they
weren' t alone anymore, T. J got off her with promptness. I recognized the
girl from seeing her around at parties, and she was the town lowie,
scattering her trail of guys along with her presumable diseases, and I
wasn' t shy to verbalize that when she tried to open her mouth and calm
the heated situation between T.J and I. She didn' t like her cards on the
table in front of the guy she was screwing around with and got up in a fit
of rage to attack me. Still nude with only my new white sheets to cover
her body, I threw her out of my house along with T. J.  I have been
paying your way for months, only finding out your sleeping with the
biggest slut in Royal Palm Beach, at least have some dignity and higher
your standards I didn' t really have a leg to stand on since I had started
this relationship giving him the knowledge I had a sugar daddy to answer
to above him.  You' re gone all the time and with that old man, what did
you expect me to do? He was right, I wanted what I couldn' t have, but I
needed some time to cool down and accept my situation. I loved having
T. J around to come home too, and he used to be my best friend in my
school days. I convinced myself of the lies I continued to accept.
Days later I was still not speaking with T.J, mentally adjusting to my
circumstances, I thought I' d have the day off to relax since I hadn' t been
called all day. Until about five pm when Ghislane called and said Jeffrey
would like a massage in an hour. Grudgingly l got up from relaxing on
the couch, got dressed and put my make-up on, meeting Juan downstairs
a half an hour later. Jeffrey was already lying on the massage table when
I walked in. I started the massage being very quiet from my somber
mood, when Jeffrey picked up on it and said  you know it' s not good to
massage people when you' re angry, you could pass on negative energy.
I wasn' t sure if he was serious or just trying to be nice so I could speak
about what was bothering me. Ending up not being able to contain my
55
56
L Copyright Proroowd Mammal
Copyright P—
CONFIDEWLm L GIUFFRE004188 CONFIUE'N I1AL GIL1 RE004189
aed Motorial
emotion any further I told him what happened with T.J and broke down
in tears, a little heart broken from living in such a lie. He turned around
from his massage and sincerely paused for a second thinking he was
going to console me but instead he laughed at the very prospect of my
notion that monogamous relationships ever existed.  Are you serious, he
was only doing what every guy in the world does, you can' t hold that
against him. I replied in a lighthearted gesture  whose side are you on
anyways? His answer stuck with me for many years to come  I' m on
your side which is why I' m going to save you a lot of grief with this one
tip, Never expect a man to be faithful and you' ll never be let down, it' s
just the way us men are genetically imprinted. The remainder of the
massage I had to pretend like I wasn' t further saddened by his response,
but in fact having to act enlightened. I would never come to him for any
other relationship advice, ever again. He told me I' d be fine if I just
listened to my mentor. He still loved role-playing the teacher and me the
pupil, like the old days before he got rich and only used to be a college
professor. I finished the massage and fulfilled my sexual duties before
being sent home wanting to collapse in anguish.
T.J was outside my apartment door when I got there, his mom waiting
downstairs in her minivan just in case I kicked hint out again. He pleaded
his guilt and promised that he would never see her again, agreeing with
me that she was the town slut and he screwed up big time. I let hiuia back
into my apartment and back into my life for that matter but more aware of
the world I was being led into believing was of normal conduct accepted
by everyone in this sick world. Jeffrey was going back to N.Y.0 and told
me to have a few days off before his assistant at his office would arrange
an E -Ticket on a commercial flight for me to join him later in the week. I
had just made loads of money from my previous trip and wanted to relax
like any teenager does, so I threw a hotel party that weekend on Singer
Island in Rivera Beach, inviting only a small group of friends to begin
with.
The hotel room quickly filled up with a flood of teens and the pumping
music was blaring. The room had a balcony overlooking the pool and the
beach that became the smoker' s section. I wasn' t a real smoker at that
point, preferring to have a puff of a spiffed blunt instead so I made it my
rule to go outside trying to prevent holes in the carpet, but it didn' t last
too long when our forbidden walls came tumbling down. Making so
much money that I could supply my wild parties with an assortment of
drugs like trips, ecstasy, and coke as well as an abundance of alcohol, that
T. J had all the contacts for, made my fellow teens admire me. It definitely
gave me a head swell, thinking here I was so young but so grown up
already with all of my peers from high school looking up to me. In the
wee hours of the morning we were all still going hard with our eyes
dilated into little black diamonds. We were all having in depth
conversations about life and where we would all end up when this
charade was all said done. Nobody got to sleep that night as the room
slowly dwindled in numbers as people were finding their way home to
recover from the repercussions of drugs wearing down out of their
intoxicated system.
When I flew out to N.Y.0 to meet Jeffrey the next day, 1 was still in a
horrible state. Not knowing what was wrong with me, thinking it was just
a bad come down, I rushed out of the elevator and down the hall to my
room, sweating profusely, to make it just in time to the toilet to throw up
bile again for the uncountable time since getting off the plane. I was
having intense cramps in my stomach and when 1 was called down to
meet Jeffrey in the massage room, I had to decline for the first time. I told
the housekeeper that 1 was feeling very ill after the flight, maybe some off
food for lunch and needed to lie down for a while. Nobody came up to
check on me for hours or even called. Waking up from my much- needed
nap, I pulled back the expensive white sheets to find myself in a pool of
my own sweat and blood. I was covered in the red stains that drenched
the pants I was wearing. I had no idea what was going on, I could only
focus on the dire amount of pain I was in. In between the heaves of
throwing up and crying simultaneously I was able to reach the phone and
called the housemaid on the intercom. I told her 1 needed to go to a
hospital immediately and slammed the phone down only to fall back to
the floor hurdled in a ball. She didn' t hesitate in calling Ghislane who ran
up to see what was wrong. Ghislane then called Jeffrey who was in his
office at the time and told him to hurry up to my level, stressing to him
that it was an emergency. Thinking they really cared about me for the
first time since I had known them, they came with me to the hospital with
me. Now I realize I was only a liability in getting them caught and they
needed to get to the doctors before I could say anything incriminating.
They were suspecting the worst now and seeing he never wore a condom
with me and from our previous conversations they knew I always made
T.J wear one, they feared the situation at hand.
When he saw the catastrophic state I was in at that point, it was the
housemaid who helped me get up and assisted me down to the car where
Jo -Jo was waiting for me. He drove us to either Lennox Hill Hospital or
Mount Sinai, I can' t remember, as it was so blurry in such a bad
condition. Rushed in for immediate testing 1 was uncontrollably vomiting
and in so much agony, I was given an injection to help me to subside the
intense pain. A nurse came in to ask who would pay for this and although
I insisted my parents insurance still covered me, Jeffrey persisted that he
take care of all the medical bills and gave the nurse his information.
57
58
C Copyright Protected Material -
Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDEN [ AL GILJFFRE004190 CONFIDENTIAL GI 1FFRE004191
When the pain relief kicked in, everything and everyone dwindled
away until I felt like Alice in Wonderland who just swallowed the
shrinking tablet and everyone standing around me seemed to move so
quick, speak so loud and hover above me. When I awoke from my
induced state, I was alone in a different room. Not knowing at all what
went on but feeling a little better, I called in the nurse who looked
through my charts and checked my vital signs. Then told me the doctor
would be in shortly to inform me of the conclusion to my illness.
He was a tall man with dark hair, and a hardened look about him
obviously from his job and constantly seeing the worst horror stories man
could think of, he just bluntly told me I had miscarried in early stages of
pregnancy. I should be fine to go home as soon as my course of
intravenous antibiotics was complete. The news sunk in fast and hit a
deep nerve. I waited for the doctor to close the curtain before I let out any
emotion and cried for my disastrous lifestyle that was dragging me into a
world that I wanted to break out of. This reoccurring cycle of believing I
needed men like Jeffrey to succeed in my life was draining the last bits of
sensitivity left in my heart. I was picked up by Jeffrey himself who took
the doctor alone to the side of the busy hallway to have a private
conversation about something. Jeffrey wasn' t comforting at all, instead he
sent me back home to rest for a couple weeks, and I only fell deeper into
a depression, using all forms of self-medication to treat my sorrows.
Two weeks later, as if Jeffrey was trying to lighten my spirits, he told
me I would be going to his island to meet a new client_ He is a Harvard
Professor, named Stephen Kosslyn. I would be spending two days with
him showing him around the island, dining with him, and treating him to
a massage whenever he wanted. Without Jeffrey even verbalizing the
need to have sex with him, he told me to keep him happy like I had my
first client. 1 packed my suitcase with island apparel, and kissed T. J goodbye,
who had at least offered me a warm embrace upon the news of my
miscarriage but none other than that knowing it wasn' t his.
Stephen was a quirky little man with white hair and a mad scientist look
about him. We arrived separately and I greeted him when one of the
housekeepers picked him up from the airport and arrived by boat, instead
of helicopter as Jeffrey and Ghislane often arrive on. We made our
acquaintances and he looked as if he was tripping over himself with
words, obviously delighted with his company and location for the
weekend. I showed him around as Jeffrey had asked and took him on an
adventurous quad bike ride around the small curvy paths, leading the way
and letting loose my hair, doing something that gave me a natural high
instead of the prescription one. The sights alone were breathtaking from
the mountainous peaks of the untouched parts of the island, we sat at a
cliff and just sat there, not saying a word to each other besides to
compliment the sights mother nature that appealed to us. I didn' t feel as if
I owed this stranger anything but what was expected of me by Jeffrey and
I could be polite, I just couldn' t be myself.
We got back to the main villa to see what time dinner would be served
so we could have time to unpack and clean up beforehand. We both met
at six pm for dinner on the outside veranda. He sat at the head of the
table and I sat next to him, politely folding my napkin to put in my lap.
The first time Jeffrey and Ghislane had seen me cut meat and eat with a
fork and knife they were so appalled, making fun of my unsophisticated
habits. Ghislane took the fork and knife in her hands and proceeded to
show me how to politely cut my food and eat. Now that my mannerisms
had improved they wouldn' t have to be worried about my etiquette when
someone important was around anyone. We both drank the red wine
supplied on the table and it seemed to warm me up on the breezy night.
By the time dinner was served and another red wine bottle later, he
seemed to get funnier. I made fun of his tousled hair and he poked at me
for my skinny legs, calling me a wanna- be- anorexic. When dessert was
brought out, he asked if he could receive one of the delightful massages
he has been hearing about from Jeffrey. I gulped more red wine down and
sweetly complied with his offer, dreading the moment I' d have to see his
naked body, let alone touch it. I asked the housekeeper Kathy that had
been serving us that night to please have someone set up a massage bed
in one of the cabana' s. I went to my room to down a few Xanax, telling
him I wanted to freshen up after dinner but to meet me in his cabana in
twenty minutes or so. I was ready to go as I had said, twenty minutes
later, with the effects of the tablets mixed with the red wine, and I would
be free not to feel anything. He was still dressed when I got in the cabana,
obviously not accustomed to this and a lot shyer than what 1 had been
used to, I told him he' d need to undress and lie face down on the table,
putting a towel to cover his bare bottom to prevent him feeling
embarrassed during the massage. I gave the massage my earnest as I
always had, and quickly got through having intercourse with him. Not
wanting to make any foreplay or anything extravagant out of it, 1 let him
think that' s as good as it got, and by the smile on his face, I thought I had
done enough.
The next day I took him down to the beach for a real massage under a
tiki-hut on the waters edge. It was one of Jeffrey' s favorite places to have
a massage, as he droned out to the sound of the waves and my gentle
therapeutic strokes. Afterwards we had lunch back at the main villa and
went back down to the beach to swim out to the water trampoline about
one hundred meters off the dock. He didn' t do any bouncing around or
anything like that. It was just a good base point for a rest spot after a long
59
60
1 Copyright Protoetcd Material Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004192 CONFIDENTIAL - GIUFFRE004193
swim. What was really cool about it though, was you could see through
the mesh and watch fish swimming underneath.
The rest of the afternoon we spent by the pool reading magazines and
eating fruit plates. Eventually lie went to his cabana to have a nap later
on. That night after dinner and my mixed cocktail of Xanax and red wine,
I asked if he' d like another massage before I went to bed. He just wanted
to stay up watching movies in Jeffrey' s theatre room. As peculiar as that
request was to me I didn' t argue it, I just hoped I hadn' t disappointed him
in any way that could make it back to Jeffrey. I showed him how to use
the remote and turn off the T. V when he was finished before going to
bed. The next morning we were both catching a flight from St. Thomas
and we had no time for anything other than breakfast and packing, which
saved me from having to be too polite as we said our good-bye' s from the
terminal in the airport, both hurriedly off in separate directions,
thankfully. I arrived back in Palm Beach, only to be told to catch another
flight the next day to N. Y.C, where Jeffrey would fix me up the money he
owed me for treating his colleague out to an entertaining weekend.
Chapter 10
I was fixed up more than what I had usually made for two days, which
was great because that car I had been saving for was finally within my
reach. I had been waiting for the freedom a car gives every teenager for a
long time, and now that I had over fifteen thousand dollars saved up I
could pretty much afford to go buy myself a nice car outright. Looking
much better than the last time I saw him Jeffrey acknowledged it. I went
to his office where he was waiting for me and he had a guest with him.
She was unusual looking to the common stereotype drop dead gorgeous
girls Jeffrey had normally introduced me to. Of Asian decent, her name
was Rena. Jeffrey had met her at an art gallery where some of her own
artwork was on display. She had a bubbly persona about her and I could
then understand why Jeffrey liked her so much, she fit into the
subservient category that he liked his girls to fall under. It was apparent
to me that they had already slept together in the short time span they had
met, as there closeness was oddly noticeable and I wondered what it was
he was offering to her in exchange for her body. I found out later from
Jeffrey that he was buying her artwork, promising her the world as an
artist, telling her he' d have her work in the all the museums in N.Y.0 and
the best art exhibits. Everyone was promised something, and seemed to
be bought off in someway or another to be in his company. It was only a
matter of time that the truth would come out.
To my own amazement Rena was to be assisting me in Jeffrey' s
massage this day, not being a total knockout or anything spectacular,
looks wise that is, but for some reason he seemed intrigued enough. As
we made our way through his spectacular mansion she was in total awe at
every corner. Commenting on the present artwork and decor that we
passed in every hall, it no longer seemed so grandeur to me anymore but
hearing someone else speak about it in such excitement reminded me of
the days when all of this seemed so unforeseen.
When we got to the massage room, or  The Dungeon as 1 used to put
it for it' s medieval looking appearance, we firstly out of custom all had a
steam shower, where Jeffrey expected me to walk her through a servants
duties, telling her to take his other foot and start rubbing in small circles
and stroking the arches of his foot rhythmically. Rena took the
instructions well and began to massage him too. When we all went to the
shower next and she followed in my exact lead washing his body as well.
Jeffrey absolutely loved the fact that two teenage girls were dually
pampering him. Jeffrey wanted to move to the massage bed and 1 had to
further begin to show her about the body, upon his accord. She mimicked
my every move up his legs and buttocks, keeping up with every stroke
until he could not contain his arousal any longer and was already
requesting us to start kissing each other, the start of the very reason we
had even met in the first place.
He blatantly stopped the massage nowhere near being complete and
turned over to announce his increased arousal in a physical abundance of
grotesqueness. Moving over to the small couch in the corner of the room
he made a space for her to lye me down on the massage table as she had
commanded him to do in such a domineering tone that he wasn' t used to
being spoken down to with. From that very moment onwards and from
the look on his face he was yearning for her to orchestrate an hour of
deliverance upon my meek nature. He started to stroke his erect manhood
as he was being tantalized watching her take over every inch of my body
in a dominating act of seduction. I was left breathless and soar after my
first introduction into the world of S& M.
Rena considered herself a dominatrix, she loved bondage, whipping
hitting, and eventually cutting her sex partner with little sharp knives
until they subdued to her punishment in agonizing pain. She was
absolutely crazy if you were to ask me, and I couldn' t help but wonder
what got her into this in the first place. All I knew was that Jeffrey was
absurdly taking into the appeal of watching us two interact, often with her
acting as my mistress who would fondle me with an insurmountable
amount of whips and toys. Then she would love to finish off every
session by hitting me across my face with a hard blow from the back of
her hand and sneering over my curled up body showing Jeffrey her ability
61
62
J Copyright Protected Material
Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004194 CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004195
to make others surrender to her extreme force. She could be so opposite
all of the sudden and be tenderly intimate with Jeffrey stroking his penis
lovingly and even speaking in baby talk to him, which he seemed to
adore.
He loved us pairing up so much that within months he made Rena an
official even renting her an apartment at the same place he had one for me
during my extensive trips out to N. Y. C. Sending us out shopping together
at all of the underground seedy sex stores downtown we would bring him
back thousands of dollars worth of sexy outfits, sex toys and bondage
material. His favorite one was a black leather studded collar that lead
down the back of my spine to cuff my hands and feet together, offering
Rena the most compromising positions to wield her afflictions, one she
was excited to pick out for my usage.
She was good at eradicating my softer side though. Helping me forge
an unpredictable scenario of me turning the tables on her, making her at
my will instead of me always being at her twisted discretion. Jeffrey
loved the rivalry between us, both striving to dominate the other one but
to me it was just another way of surviving her punishment. All for show I
thought she was a madman let loose in a torturesome domain of violent
sex and unbearable beatings. I wasn' t sure how long I could hold off this
charade of S & M, I just didn' t want Jeffrey to think I couldn' t give him
everything that she could, always being replaceable in his company.
She and I could often come across as good friends to his blind eye but
it was only a matter of time before the animosity inside of me was going
to snap. Doing normal things too made it all half bearable. Having a lot of
similar interests we did fun things like go to the theatre to watch
Phantom of the Opera or visit several historical and art museums
together, afterwards treating ourselves for a giant piece of greasy N.Y.0
style pizza. Like I said, we really liked each other purely as friends but
the dominance in the massage chambers was taking it' s toll on our
strange friendship. One average trip back to N. Y.C, she surprised Jeffrey
with a six foot by six- foot oil painting of her and I lying nude in a ying
and yang position facing each other. Although we were soliciting each
other with sexual innuendo the picture was still very carefully
orchestrated to perfectly portray the darker side of Jeffrey' s thrills. It was
an amazing piece of work, besides the lewdness of it, but she would' ve
known that' s exactly what kind of art Jeffrey liked. He was so astounded
by her gift as he had previously asked her to construct a small painting of
us together but was not expecting anything of this grand magnitude she
had presented him with. He lifted her from the ground and twirled her
around before he thanked her profusely and embellished her with his
profound gratitude, the only thing Jeffrey had to offer, he handed her a
small wad of cash as her payment. It was the most appreciation I had ever
seen him show a girl. Obviously moved by her gesture, he got her an
exhibit in N.Y.C' s  Metropolitan Museum of Art where she submitted
her very own piece. She sculpted an image of my headshot out of clay,
shaping it with the strands of my long hair blowing across my face. I was
taken aback myself at her creation. She really did have an amazing talent
if not for her meaner streak she won! d' ve beer. ^ great friend I vVil! never
forget Rena, for all of the ups and the downs we endured together.
It wasn' t too much longer before I finally had enough of the abuse in
the bedroom and I had to tell Jeffrey what 1 was feeling. She was getting
even more violent as time went on, and with her questioning me and
Jeffrey why she didn' t get brought on long trips with him, she didn' t get
the fact that she was just a tool for him to use. Jeffrey said he was already
thinking about getting rid of her off of his  regular list. He said she was
becoming too clingy and he didn' t like clinginess or jealousy. I never
even got to say good-bye or take the opportunity to keep her as a friend,
like a girlfriend to catch up with once and awhile, but that' s how it was
with Jeffrey, one day you sat under the blanket of his comfortably and the
next without any warning you could be discarded like yesterdays news.
She would' ve taken it hard but that' s the game we were playing and it
was for those who knew what lines not to cross.
I was further surprised the next day when Jeffrey gave me a thousand
dollars to go shopping in downtown Manhattan to find a classy dress, on
top of being sent to the exclusive beauty salon of celebrity stylist
Frederic Fekkai for a new look. It was amazing, to be pampered like
royalty. I walked out of there feeling like I had replaced a young girl with
a young woman, I felt beautiful. He had yet another surprise in store for
me. Ghislane called me and told me 1 need to go to a photo -developing
store and ask them for two LD photos then bring them downtown to
Jeffrey' s Manhattan office. Weird request I thought. 1 was more used to
posing in full body shots being sexually exposed as a gift for Jeffrey. I
did as they asked and took my two photos into the office where Jeffrey' s
assistant was waiting for my arrival. Still not telling me what the
headshots were for, she took them from me and told me to have a seat for
a second. A moment later I heard Jeffrey call me into the office.  I like
what you' ve done with your hair, you' ve gone more blonde, suits your
glowing tan. I replied with an appreciative  thank -you for sending me
to such a renowned hairstylist, and shopping money. I showed him my
finds for the day, an elegant off the shoulder navy blue dress that had two
layers that would swoosh and sway with my every stride. I couldn' t wait
to wear it on a special occasion, and I wouldn' t have to. The pictures I
had to bring to him, as he would proceed to tell me, were for my first
passport. I was so excited, we were going to France for a close friend of
Jeffrey and Ghislane' s birthday party, famed super -model Naomi
63
64
Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL
Copyright Protooted Material
GIUFFRE004196 CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRL'004197
Campbell. I was so over-joyed with excitement, what girl my age with a
background like mine was attending socialite parties and globetrotting the
world. It only made it harder for me to see beyond the elusive walls I had
put up to protect myself from the appalling truth.
We left in early April first going to London, Paris and then our final
destination being St. Tropez in Southern France. If Hallmark had a
postcard, St. Tropez would definitely be on the front of it. It was beautiful
spring weather and every where you looked women were dressed in
bikini tops branded with some kind of designer label embedded into it
and the men were following them around like harping dogs in heat. In all
of the elegance of the Mediterranean,  La Bastide De St. Tropez was an
impressive landmark. Jeffrey and Ghislane were staying in one of the
private cottages, on the park on the grounds, while Emmy and I stayed in
separate quarters inside the hotel. The old style cobblestone streets were
lined with boutique shops and beauty parlors_ It was the hedonistic
stomping grounds of the beyond rich and famous.
The next day we went out to lunch at the grand opening of the
infamous Nikki Beach Club, where a cheap glass of champagne costs
around two hundred dollars and if your not keeping the alcohol
consumption flowing like water, you' d be asked to leave to make way for
the constant flow of prospectus patrons. That' s where I first got to meet
Naomi Campbell. She was wearing the typical attire strutting around
southern France, a D& G bikini top and a wrap around mini skirt to go
over the swimsuits bikini. She was so tall and stunningly beautiful. Her
charisma was energetic, funny, and everyone seemed to hang off of her
every word and laugh at her every joke. Ghislane and Jeffrey kissed her
cheeks and wished her a happy birthday, and then I was introduced and
followed in their suit. She was surrounded by a league of assistants,
friends and fans, which didn' t make it easy for us to all converse but she
got enough time in to invite us abroad a yacht of a fellow she was  kind
of seeing at the time for the before party ahead of tonight' s event. We
went back to the hotel and I gave Jeffrey a massage in his room before we
all headed down to the pool to soak in some of the year' s first sun' s rays.
I loved wearing my new ball gown and feeling like a princess. It was
absolutely sensational and made me feel as if I floated in the dress. I
swept up my long hair in a twisted clip, only letting down a few curly
strands and layered on the mascara. Receiving many compliments
throughout the evening when we eventually left the Yacht to make our
appearance at the main birthday bash, I couldn' t help but feel excitement
for the party to come it was the first celebrity birthday bash I had ever
been to. Being introduced to model after model and the rich men that
followed them around became dizzying. Jeffrey sat back and watched as I
buoyantly worked the dance floor, coming back to the table where he
was, only to grab another glass of champagne every now and then. Every
so often he' d introduce to me to someone new, pulling me aside to show
off his eager young masseuse to his fellow pedo' s. These people had so
much money pouring out of them. I don' t know why he even thought
they' d care in the first place. It made me feel good though. At least I
knew I made him proud to have me in his company.
Being surrounded by so many of Jeffrey' s colleagues and his
likeminded people that were considered the most sophisticated and the
highly esteemed of today' s world nearly made the way I was living lately
more fathomable, at least to myself. I thought if everyone looks up to
these people and they are all accepting of it, it must be just the way the
world turns. I danced with a young prince that night and with all of the
help from the bubbly champagne I couldn' t remember his name for the
life of me. On one of my trips back to the table for another glass, Jeffrey
leaned over to quietly whisper in my ear that it was a prince that I had
actually been dancing with and I didn' t phase me in the least way. I went
back to the dance floor and continued to let my hair down. It was a fun
bash, the entire crowd sang  Happy Birthday to Naomi and by the time
we got back in the car to retreat for the night, I was giddy from the
drinking and dancing all evening. We had a guest in the car, and
apparently we had already been introduced, but I couldn' t even remember
his name in the first five minutes of our meeting again. He was the hotel
owner of some large chain in America called  Hilton. Staying at one of
the cottages near Jeffrey, he saw it quaint to loan me out for a night' s
massage to ruin an  almost perfect evening. Jeffrey told me to come
back to his room after I was finished with Rick, thankfully he reminded
me of his name but also odd I thought, being so late I would' ve never
imagined Jeffrey could stay up this late but I never made a fuss out of his
requests. I gave him affirmation of my understood instructions and
headed off with this stranger into the darkness.
I dimmed the bright lights in his bedroom to a softer tone as if it might
aid the vision of this short, balding man with straggling remnants of curly
brown hair left to show for the remaining bits of youth left in him. I had
to ask him to undress and lay on top of the towel that I had picked up
from the neatly folded pile at the end of his bed and spread it over the
duvet. I didn' t want to waste a second in his place, getting right to the
very reason I was even there. Turning around while he was getting
undressed, being our first time together, I wanted to give him the
impression I was actually a therapist and not a finale to the end of the
nights entertainment. Not exactly what he had in mind though, given that
my impression was already made for me when Jeffrey arranged for our
meeting in the first place. His chuckle to my response was condescending
as he came up behind me and unzipped my dress which floated to the
65
66
I:'.
Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDLWIAL
Copyright Pmtactcd Material
GIUFFRE004198 CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004199
bottom of the floor as he was saying  You can' t really expect to give a
massage wearing this, here sweetie, I' ll help you out of it. He just
wanted to see the hidden bounty my clothes were hindering his eyes from
seeing. I just went about my way trying to get his hands off of me and to
get him to lie down for a massage. Making quaint conversation with him
was pointless as I was trying to send his thoughts elsewhere other than
the apparent perverted schemes replaying in his mind from the heavy
breathing he was making and the looks he was giving to me. I was using
all of the tricks in the  tum -off' book even asking him about his wife and
kids.
Unquestionably he was in seventh heaven turning every one of my
distractions into another flattering compliment. He was saying things like
I love what you do you to me, I have never felt like this before, come
stay with me and I will pay you double, no, triple whatever Jeffrey pays
you! Knowing he was just a drunk idiot, I wasn' t being lured in by any
of his offers of money or a privileged lifestyle, I knew these cages all too
well and I was better off sticking with the one that I was at least
accustomed to already. Holding back any composure now, he was going
extremely wild ravishing at my body trying to tear off my panties like a
hungered wild animal. After all of the champagne I had drunk that night
it gave me the nerve that I needed to know exactly how to handle perverts
like this one, who had been no different from every other shmuck in my
life, and 1 quickly shut him up with a blowjob lasting no longer than two
terrible minutes. It had only been shy of a half an hour before 1 was
already getting quickly get dressed and hurrying out his cottage door.
When I got to Jeffrey' s cottage I rushed through the door and told
Jeffrey and Ghislane, who were sitting front of the fireplace reading a
books, that I never ever wanted to see that guy ever again. When they
asked me what was the matter, 1 told them of every thing that had
happened that night even how he offered me to come work for him
getting paid triple. I established a lot of trust with Jeffrey that night. He
asked me why I didn' t accept the offer and I responded with  Who
would look after you, if I were gone? Like a caring grand father would
do, he pulled me into his chest for a hug and told me that it meant a lot to
him. It was so late and I was so tired but I still had to give Jeffrey his
massage that night. He asked me to just rub his feet as he fell asleep, and
thankfully he was out like a light in no time. The next morning I took two
headache tablets and a ginger ale instead of a coffee. Trying to contain
my hangover as best as possible behind a pair of sunnies it was mid
afternoon by the time I had felt like myself again. We spent the day Yacht
hopping, soaking in the sunny weather while Jeffrey and Ghislane caught
up with old acquaintances, Emmy and I were just accessories to look
good on the arms of them. The next day we wrapped up the tail end of
our trip and commenced our flight back into the U. S. I was paid a
generous amount and set off to go car shopping as soon as I got back to
Florida. Through a private seller, I was able to pay out right for my car. I
