encourage that view. Mary; 
out, filing detailed statemen 
ages. Physical evidence has 
these additional statements 
2, 
kTTERSON 
.cutors presented Epstein a 
,us state felony charges (that 
prisonment, registration as a 
ition for the victims) or else 
trial. 
ar-long assault on the prose-
. I use the word assault inten-
his case was more aggressive 
3rosecutors in my office, had 
Ir. Epstein hired an army of 
rofessor Alan Dershowitz, for-
dine Law Dean Kenneth Starr, 
) the President and then Kirk-
_efkowitz, and several others, 
3 had formerly worked in the 
in the Child Exploitation and 
Justice Department. Defense 
meeting with me to challenge 
terms previously presented by 
meeting with Mr. Black. The 
.et with defense counsel in Fall 
ae office's position: two years, 
n, or trial. 
months, the defense team pre-
.rgument claiming that felony 
tinst Epstein were unsupported 
:ed a basis in law, and that the 
time was motivated by a zeal to 
.y because he is wealthy. They 
nts with legal opinions from 
208 
FILTHY RICH 
well-known legal experts. One member of the defense 
team warned me that the office's excess zeal in forcing a 
good man to serve time in jail might be the subject of a 
book if we continued to proceed with the matter. My 
office systematically considered and rejected each argu-
ment, and when we did, my office's decisions were 
appealed to Washington. As to the warning, I ignored it. 
The defense strategy was not limited to legal issues. 
Defense counsel investigated individual prosecutors and 
their families, looking for personal peccadilloes that may 
provide a basis for disqualification. Disqualifying a pros-
ecutor is an effective (though rarely used) strategy, as 
eliminating the individuals most familiar with the facts 
and thus most qualified to take a case to trial harms like-
lihood for success. Defense counsel tried to disqualify at 
least two prosecutors. I carefully reviewed, and then 
rejected, these arguments. 
Despite the army of attorneys, the office held firm to 
the terms first presented to Mr. Black in the original 
meeting. On June 30, 2008, after yet another last minute 
appeal to Washington D.C. was rejected, Epstein pled 
guilty in state court. He was to serve 18 months impris-
onment, register as a sexual offender for life, and provide 
restitution to the victims. 
Some may feel that the prosecution should have been 
tougher. Evidence that has come to light since 2007 may 
encourage that view. Many victims have since spoken 
out, filing detailed statements in civil cases seeking dam-
ages. Physical evidence has since been discovered. Had 
these additional statements and evidence been known, 
209 
JAMES PATTERSON 
the outcome may have been different. But they were not 
known to us at the time. 
A prosecution decision must be based on admissible 
facts known at the time. In cases of this type, those are 
unusually difficult because victims are frightened and 
often decline to testify or if they do speak, they give con-
tradictory statements. Our judgment in this case, based 
on the evidence known at the time, was that it was better 
to have a billionaire serve time in jail, register as a sex 
offender, and pay his victims restitution than risk a trial 
with a reduced likelihood of success. I supported that 
judgment then, and based on the state law as it then stood 
and the evidence known at the time, I would support that 
judgment again. 
Epstein's treatment, while in state custody, likewise 
may encourage the view that the office should have been 
tougher. Although the terms of confinement in a state 
prison are a matter appropriately left to the State of Flor-
ida, and not federal authorities, without doubt, the treat-
ment that he received while in state custody undermined 
the purpose of a jail sentence. 
Some may also believe that the prosecution should 
have been tougher in retaliation for the defense's tactics. 
The defense, arguably, often failed to negotiate in good 
faith. They would obtain concessions as part of a negotia-
tion and agree to proceed, only to change their minds, 
and appeal the office's position to Washington. The inves-
tigations into the family lives of individual prosecutors 
were, in my opinion, uncalled for, as were the accusations 
of bias and/or misconduct against individual prosecutors. 
210 
F. 
At times, some prosecut 
trial, and at times I felt t 
right in the first meetin 
spective of defense tacti 
tional right to a defense 
right should not be puni: 
sel's exercise of their ri 
Washington D.C. Proseci 
frustration and anger wi 
their judgment. 
After the plea, I reca 
One was from the FBI Sp( 
to offer congratulations. 
meetings regarding this c 
of the defense, and he cat 
holding firm against the 1 
itz, Lefkowitz and Starr. 
received calls or commun 
itz, Lefkowitz and Starr. I 
als previously, from my 
Kirkland & Ellis in the m 
peace. I agreed to talk am 
Epstein pled guilty, as I 
tors battle defense attorne 
have tried, yet I confess ti: 
fully in this case. 
The bottom line is this:• 
served time in jail and is m 
He has been required to pa) 
restitution clearly cannot c 
)ATTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
n different. But they were not 
must be based on admissible 
-1 cases of this type, those are 
e victims are frightened and 
they do speak, they give con-
• judgment in this case, based 
[he time, was that it was better 
time in jail, register as a sex 
ms restitution than risk a trial 
I of success. I supported that 
on the state law as it then stood 
the time, I would support that 
•hue in state custody, likewise 
hat the office should have been 
rms of confinement in a state 
Driately left to the State of Flor-
rities, without doubt, the treat-
le in state custody undermined 
nce. 
Te that the prosecution should 
illation for the defense's tactics. 
ten failed to negotiate in good 
zoncessions as part of a negotia-
d, only to change their minds, 
;Won to Washington. The inves-
lives of individual prosecutors 
filed for, as were the accusations . 
t against individual prosecutors. 
2.10 
At times, some prosecutors felt that we should just go to 
trial, and at times I felt that frustration myself. What was 
right in the first meeting, however, remained right irre-
spective of defense tactics. Individuals have a constitu-
tional right to a defense. The aggressive exercise of that 
right should not be punished, nor should a defense coun-
sel's exercise of their right to appeal a U.S Attorney to 
Washington D.C. Prosecutors must be careful not to allow 
frustration and anger with defense counsel to influence 
their judgment. 
After the plea, I recall receiving several phone calls. 
One was from the FBI Special Agent-In-Charge. He called 
to offer congratulations. He had been at many of the 
meetings regarding this case. He was aware of the tactics 
of the defense, and he called to praise our prosecutors for 
holding firm against the likes of Messrs. Black, Dershow-
itz, Lefkowitz and Starr. It was a proud moment. I also 
received calls or communications from Messrs. Dershow-
itz, Lefkowitz and Starr. I had known all three individu-
als previously, from my time in law school and at 
Kirkland & Ellis in the mid 90s. They all sought to make 
peace. I agreed to talk and meet with each of them after 
Epstein pled guilty, as I think it important that prosecu-
tors battle defense attorneys in a case and then move on. I 
have tried, yet I confess that this has been difficult to do 
fully in this case. 
The bottom line is this: Mr. Jeffrey Epstein, a billionaire, 
served time in jail and is now a registered sexual offender. 
He has been required to pay his victims restitution, though 
restitution clearly cannot compensate for the crime. And 
211 
JAMES PATTERSON 
we know much more today about his crimes because vic-
tims have come forward to speak out. Some may disagree 
with prosecutorial judgments made in this case, but 
those individuals are not the ones who at the time 
reviewed the evidence available for trial and assessed the 
likelihood of success. 
Respectfully, 
R. Alexander Acosta 
Former U.S. Attorney 
Southern District of Florida 
212 
PATTERSON 
y about his crimes because vic-
) speak out. Some may disagree 
nents made in this case, but 
)t the ones who at the time 
iilable for trial and assessed the 
• Respectfully, 
R. Alexander Acosta 
Former U.S. Attorney 
Southern District of Florida 
PART VI 
Aftermath 
CHAPTER 56 
Jeffrey Epstein: July 2009 
effrey Epstein walks out of the Stockade on July 21, 2009, 
having served less than thirteen months of his eighteen-month 
sentence. One of the concessions his lawyers have gotten 
while working out his plea-deal guarantees is that the media not 
be alerted to the time and day of his departure. 
But from now on, Epstein, who is fifty-six, will carry the 
mark of a level 3 sex offender—level 1 being the lowest, and 
level 3 indicating the highest possible risk of a future criminal 
act of a sexual nature. Wherever he goes, he will be forced to reg-
ister as such. 
Every ninety days, Epstein will have to check in with the 
authorities. Every year, the New York City Police Department 
will take his mug shot. And for a full year, Epstein will be under 
house arrest in Palm Beach. 
This last prohibition doesn't stop him from flying, with court 
215 
JAMES PATTERSON 
approval, on his own planes to New York and to Little Saint Jeff's, 
where the locals have taken to referring to Epstein's 727 as the 
Lolita Express. 
There are other restrictions, of course, that Epstein is sup-
posed to abide by. He has to provide the state of Florida with a 
list of all the motor vehicles, boats, and airplanes he owns. The 
full list includes two Escalades, six Suburbans, two Ford F-150s, 
two Harley-Davidsons, a Land Rover, a Hummer H2, a thirty-
four-foot JVC boat, and a thirty-five-foot Donzi powerboat. 
Three of his five planes turn out to be registered to a com-
pany called Air Ghislaine, Inc. 
As a registered sex offender, Epstein is legally obliged to 
undergo psychiatric treatment. This is a restriction he'll get 
around by having his own psychologist submit a report to law 
enforcement officers. 
Epstein is also prohibited from accessing pornography on 
the Internet and using social networking for sexual purposes. 
For Jeffrey Epstein, there will be no Bangbros, Tinder, or 
Swingles. com. 
There will be lawsuits. 
Six weeks before probation ends, he settles with seven women 
who sue him in civil court. But Epstein can easily afford the set-
tlement payments. He won't be going back to jail, and in regard 
to further prosecution for any criminal actions, his troubles are 
behind him. 
Not everyone who's spent time in his company will be so 
lucky. 
216 
Alfredo Rodriguez: Aug 
E pstein's houseman, Al 
prison sentence. 
In a sworn statem 
maid, Lupita, who had corni 
up after Epstein's massagec 
lic, had cried as she describe 
Rodriguez was fired by I 
after seeing a strange car--
As it turned out, the ca 
masseuses. 
On his way out of the hc 
i, of Epstein's papers, which he 
by Chief Reiter's investigator. 
For years, Rodriguez trio 
manager. No one wanted tc 
TTERSON 
Few York and to Little Saint Jeff's, 
referring to Epstein's 727 as the 
, of course, that Epstein is sup-
ovide the state of Florida with a 
)ats, and airplanes he owns. The 
six Suburbans, two Ford F-150s, 
Rover, a Hummer H2, a thirty-
Eive-foot Donzi powerboat. 
.n out to be registered to a corn-
er, Epstein is legally obliged to 
t. This is a restriction he'll get 
Tchologist submit a report to law 
from accessing pornography on 
etworking for sexual purposes. 
will be no Bangbros, Tinder, or 
ends, he settles with seven women 
t Epstein can easily afford the set-
e going back to jail, and in regard 
criminal actions, his troubles are 
time in his company will be so 
216 
CHAPTER 57 
Alfredo Rodriguez: August 2009 
Epstein's houseman, Alfredo Rodriguez, also ends up with a 
prison sentence. 
In a sworn statement, Rodriguez talks about Epstein's 
maid, Lupita, who had complained to him about having to clean 
up after Epstein's massages. Lupita, who was a devout Catho-
lic, had cried as she described the stained towel and sex toys. 
Rodriguez was fired by Epstein, he says, when he called 911 
after seeing a strange car— a beater —in Epstein's driveway. 
As it turned out, the car had belonged to one of Epstein's 
masseuses. 
On his way out of the house on El Brillo Way, he took some 
of Epstein's papers, which he failed to produce when questioned 
by Chief Reiter's investigators. 
For years, Rodriguez tried and failed to find work as a house 
manager. No one wanted to hire someone who'd worked for 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Fr u 
Jeffrey Epstein. Finally, desperately, he tried to sell the informa-
tion he'd stolen. 
The papers named underage girls and the places where 
Epstein had taken them. The list included locations in Califor-
nia, Paris, New Mexico, New York, and Michigan. The papers 
also included the names, addresses, and phone numbers of 
famous individuals—Henry Kissinger, Mick Jagger, Dustin Hoff-
man, Ralph Fiennes, David Koch, Ted Kennedy, Donald Trump, 
Bill Richardson, Bill Clinton, and former Israeli prime minister 
Ehud Barak among them. 
This was intriguing, if not at all damning. Epstein made a 
habit of collecting such information for future use. But informa-
tion pertaining to the girls would have bolstered the state's case 
against Jeffrey Epstein, and by withholding it from the Palm 
Beach PD and the FBI, Rodriguez had committed a crime. 
In his defense, Rodriguez would say that the papers were an 
insurance policy. Without them, he believed, Epstein would 
have made him disappear. 
But now Rodriguez needed the money. And so a few weeks 
after Epstein's release from the Stockade, he approached a lawyer 
who was representing some of Epstein's masseuses. He had the 
holy grail, he insisted. A .golden nugget. The names of hun-
dreds of girls, he said, who had been abused by Epstein. 
The lawyer told Rodriguez in no uncertain terms that he was 
obliged to turn whatever he had over to the authorities. By 
demanding money for the information, Rodriguez was commit-
ting another crime. 
According to a sworn statement by Christina Pryor, a special, 
agent with the FBI, Rodriguez persisted that he would only turn 
over the information in his possession in exchange for $50,000. 
218 
Two months later, on Octobe. 
who insisted once more on 13( 
lawyer told him that an associ 
What the lawyer knew one 
the associate in question was. 
the FBI. A few days later, on? 
guez and sets up a meeting, wl 
During the meeting, Roc 
book and several sheets of legs 
ten notes, Special Agent Pryo 
continues: 
Rodriguez explained that he 
his former employer's resid 
2004 to 2005 and that the bo 
working for his former emp 
detail the information within 
ant information to the UCE. I; 
he had previously lied to the. 
about the $50,000, took posse 
counting it. 
Rodriguez was then detat 
Proceedings, Title 18, U.S. Co 
tioned. After Miranda warning 
Rodriguez waived his rights a 
those rights. Rodriguez admiti 
and book in his possession am 
to local law enforcement or th 
21 
PATTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
-ately, he tried to sell the informa-
rage girls and the places where 
list included locations in Califor-
• York, and Michigan. The papers 
ldresses, and phone numbers of 
:issinger, Mick Jagger, Dustin Hoff-
Dch, Ted Kennedy, Donald Trump, 
and former Israeli prime minister 
A at all damning. Epstein made a 
nation for future use. But informa-
mild have bolstered the state's case 
by withholding it from the Palm 
;uez had committed a crime. 
would say that the papers were an 
them, he believed, Epstein would 
ed the money. And so a few weeks 
Le Stockade, he approached a lawyer 
of Epstein's masseuses. He had the 
golden nugget. The names of hun-
ad been abused by Epstein. 
:z in no uncertain terms that he was 
Le had over to the authorities. By 
formation, Rodriguez was commit
tement by Christina Pryor, a special 
:z persisted that he would only turn 
ossession in exchange for $50,000. 
218 
* * * 
Two months later, on October 28, the lawyer called Rodriguez, 
who insisted once more on being paid for the information. The 
lawyer told him that an associate would be in touch. 
What the lawyer knew and Rodriguez did not know was that 
the associate in question was an undercover employee (UCE) of 
the FBI. A few days later, on November 2, the UCE calls Rodri-
guez and sets up a meeting, which takes place the following day. 
During the meeting, Rodriguez produced a small bound 
book and several sheets of legal pad paper containing handwrit-
ten notes, Special Agent Pryor would say in her statement. She 
continues: 
Rodriguez explained that he had taken the bound book from 
his former employer's residence while employed there in 
2004 to 2005 and that the book had been created by persons 
working for his former employer. Rodriguez discussed in 
detail the information within the book and identified import-
ant information to the UCE. In addition, Rodriguez admitted 
he had previously lied to the FBI. Rodriguez asked the UCE 
about the $50,000, took possession of the money, and began 
counting it. 
Rodriguez was then detained for Obstruction of Official 
Proceedings, Title 18, US. Code, Section 1512(c), and ques-
tioned. After Miranda warnings were administered by agents, 
Rodriguez waived his rights and signed a written waiver of 
those rights. Rodriguez admitted that he had the documents 
and book in his possession and had never turned them over 
to local law enforcement or the FBI. In addition, Rodriguez 
219 
JAMES PATTERSON 
advised he had witnessed nude girls whom he believed were 
underage at the pool area of his former employer's home, 
knew that his former employer was engaging in sexual con-
tact with underage girls, and had viewed pornographic 
images of underage girls on computers in his employer's 
home. Rodriguez was then released from custody for further 
investigation. 
The items that Rodriguez had attempted to sell to the 
UCE for $50,000.00 were reviewed by an agent familiar with 
the underlying criminal investigation. As Rodriguez had 
described, the items contained information material to the 
underlying investigation that would have been extremely use-
ful in investigatang] and prosecuting the case, including the 
names and contact information of material witnesses and 
additional victims. Had those items been produced in 
response to the inquiries of the state law enforcement officers 
or the FBI Special Agents, their contents would have been 
presented to the federal grand jury. 
Following his release, Alfredo Rodriguez was arrested again. 
He appeared in court on June 1.8, 2010, facing charges of cor-
ruptly concealing records and documents. Dressed in a blue 
jumpsuit and shackles, he apologized for his crimes and asked 
the court to be merciful. 
He received a sentence of eighteen months. 
It was the same punishment that Jeffrey Epstein had gotten 
for his crimes. But unlike Epstein, Alfredo Rodriguez served his 
time in a federal prison and did not ask for, or receive, permis-
sion to go on work release. 
220 
Prince Andrew: 2011 
p rince Andrew also fares 
imprisonment. 
The two men are old I 
Ghislaine Maxwell introducedi 
time in the 1990s. In 2000, Ep5 
Castle to celebrate the queen's h 
flew to Sandringham, the queei 
a party Prince Andrew threw for 
The prince had also visited 
Palm Beach as well as in New 
Roberts made in her 2015 decla 
asked her to give the prince wi 
back with the details. 
According to the Guardian, 
tied together at Windsor Castle, 
2; 
'ATTERSON 
de girls whom he believed were 
If his former employer's home, 
,er was engaging in sexual con-
lnd had viewed pornographic 
n computers in his employer's 
_4eased from custody for further 
ez had attempted to sell to the 
viewed by an agent familiar with 
.vestigation. As Rodriguez had 
led information material to the 
t would have been extremely use-
-osecuting the case, including the 
ltion of material witnesses and 
those items been produced in 
he state law enforcement officers 
their contents would have been 
rid jury. 
redo Rodriguez was arrested again. 
le 18, 2010, facing charges of cor-
nd documents. Dressed in a blue 
)ologized for his crimes and asked 
eighteen months. 
lent that Jeffrey Epstein had gotten 
istein, Alfredo Rodriguez served his 
did not ask for, or receive, permis-
220 
CHAPTER 58 
Prince Andrew: 2011 
p rince Andrew also fares poorly in the wake of Epstein's 
imprisonment. 
The two men are old friends. They have been ever since 
Ghislaine Maxwell introduced the prince to her then-beau, some-
time in the 1990s. In 2000, Epstein had been invited to Windsor 
Castle to celebrate the queen's birthday. Six months later, Epstein 
flew to Sandringham, the queen's estate in Norfolk, England, for 
a party Prince Andrew threw for Ghislaine's thirty-ninth birthday. 
The prince had also visited Epstein on several occasions, in 
Palm Beach as well as in New York. And if allegations Virginia 
Roberts made in her 2015 declaration are to be believed, Epstein 
asked her to give the prince whatever he required, then report 
back with the details. 
According to the Guardian, Epstein and the prince had par-
tied together at Windsor Castle, in Saint-Tropez, and in Thailand, 
221 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Fi L 
where Andrew was pictured on a yacht surrounded by topless 
women. 
According to Roberts's lawsuit, Epstein had forced her into 
the prince's bed on Little Saint Jeff's. 
After Epstein's conviction, the British press were using another 
name for Little Saint Jeff's: Sex Island. The Guardian reported 
that the manager of two Virgin Islands—based corporations owned 
by Epstein happened to be the wife of the governor of the Virgin 
Islands. There were allegations involving a million-dollar dona-
tion that Epstein had made to the governor's reelection cam-
paign. And then there was Roberts's claim that she had been 
forced to have sex with the prince on the island as well as in 
New York and in London. 
Invariably, the photograph of Prince Andrew with his arm 
around the bare midriff of a very young-looking Virginia Rob-
erts ran with stories that appeared in the tabloids. 
It is emphatically denied that the Duke of York had any form 
of sexual contact or relationship with Roberts, Buckingham 
Palace spokespersons would say. The allegations made are false 
and without any foundation. 
The prince's ex-wife, Sarah Ferguson, the Duchess of York, 
while on a skiing trip with the prince and their daughter Euge-
nie in Switzerland, told reporters, He is the greatest man there 
is. It was the finest moment of my life in 1986 when I married 
him. He is a great man, the best in the world. 
I won't stand by—because I know what it feels like to have 
salacious lies made up about you—and not support him so pub-
licly because they are just shockingly accusatory allegations, 
222 
which I don't think is right, .5 
viewed by Today host Matt La 
and as a great father and a h-
work he does for Britain I w( 
character defamed to this leve 
But at the same time, a c( 
good man's fall from grace, a 
out of the woodwork to dish t( 
I've seen him treat his st 
said a former aide to the princ( 
personal protection officers, 
ground and demanding they ' 
graces at all. Sure, if you're a la 
then I bet he's utterly charminl 
Despite all this, the prince had 
a photo, frequently trotted out l 
strolling in Central Park. 
Some few months before it 
businessman had secretly tap( 
five hundred thousand pounds 
If you want to meet him ir 
look after me, and he'll look aft 
Once again, she said aft 
Pounded and rebounded and als 
most in the world: the Duke. 
Prince Andrew had had hi5 
real estate deals, sticky roman. 
ment dumps (courtesy of Julia' 
2. 
1/4TTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
n a yacht surrounded by topless 
mit, Epstein had forced her into 
eff's. 
British press were using another 
x Island. The Guardian reported 
slands—based corporations owned 
wife of the governor of the Virgin 
; involving a million-dollar dona-
o the governor's reelection cam-
Dberts's claim that she had been 
rince on the island as well as in 
of Prince Andrew with his arm 
very young-looking Virginia Rob-
ired in the tabloids. 
hat the Duke of York had any form 
ship with Roberts, Buckingham 
ay. The allegations made are false 
h Ferguson, the Duchess of York, 
e prince and their daughter Euge-
ters, He is the greatest man there 
)f my life in 1986 when I married 
st in the world. 
se I know what it feels like to have 
70U-and not support him so pub-
thockingly accusatory allegations, 
222 
which I don't think is right, she said a few days later when inter-
viewed by Today host Matt Lauer. It's a defamation of character, 
and as a great father and a humongously good man and all the 
work he does for Britain I won't stand by and let him have his 
character defamed to this level. 
But at the same time, a certain schadenfreude attended the 
good man's fall from grace, and former associates kept coming 
out of the woodwork to dish to the press. 
I've seen him treat his staff in a shocking, appalling way, 
said a former aide to the prince. He's been incredibly rude to his 
personal protection officers, literally throwing things on the 
ground and demanding they 'fucking pick them up.' No social 
graces at all. Sure, if you're a lady with blond hair and big boobs, 
then I bet he's utterly charming. 
Despite all this, the prince had stuck by Epstein. There was even 
a photo, frequently trotted out by the tabloids, of the two of them 
strolling in Central Park. 
Some few months before it was taken, a reporter posing as a 
businessman had secretly taped Sarah Ferguson's demand for 
five hundred thousand pounds in return for access to the prince. 
If you want to meet him in your business, she'd said then, 
look after me, and he'll look after you. You'll get it back tenfold. 
Once again, she said afterward, my errors have com-
pounded and rebounded and also impacted on the man I admire 
inost in the world: the Duke. 
Prince Andrew had had his troubles already—with shady 
real estate deals, sticky romances, highly embarrassing docu-
ment dumps (courtesy of Julian Assange and WikiLeaks), and 
223 
JAMES PATTERSON 
i*t 
questionable ties to Tunisian oligarchs, corrupt presidents of 
former Soviet republics, and Mu'ammar Gadhafi, among other 
entanglements, many of which were explored in a Vanity Fair 
article headlined THE TROUBLE WITH ANDREW. 
The duke has a record of being loyal to his friends, a royal 
source told Vanity Fair's Edward Klein. Take his feelings for 
Sarah Ferguson. If you are a prince and you bring a woman into 
the royal life and, for whatever reasons, she's spit out, you might 
have feelings of debt toward her. The duke feels that she's been 
spattered and rejected. His close relationship with the Duchess 
of York is problematic, and there have been many problems over 
the last 5 to 10 years, all of which stem from the duchess. Some 
of the behavior of the duchess is inconsistent with being mar-
ried to, or an ex-wife of, the duke. There's no question but that 
Sarah's been a financially self-destructive element in the• duke's 
life. 
The same kind of loyalty manifested itself last December, 
when the duke visited Epstein at his home in New York, said a 
spokesperson for Buckingham Palace. Epstein was a friend of 
the duke's for the best part of 20 years. It was the first time in 
four years that he'd seen Epstein. He now recognizes that the 
meeting in December was unwise. 
Don't expect to see a photo of the two of them together, 4. 
another royal source would say. 
But one more story about the prince's dealings with Jeffrey 
Epstein had already emerged. 
At a dinner party at Epstein's town house, the prince dished 
about the wedding of his nephew Prince William to Kate 
Middleton. 
He was amused that his dinner companions were so inter 
224 
ested in every detail, a g 
gossip columnist. Whe 
Queen wear, would his e; 
Other guests in atten( 
dler, George Stephanopo 
Woody Allen. 
At around the same t 
Post, I'm not a sexual pi 
ence between a murderer 
Was it so remarkable that 
in Epstein's company? Ar 
fodder for years. Randy A 
the circles that Jeffrey E 
seen as a vice. Epstein cal 
lation took hold on Wall 
were charging ten thousal 
you'd see things that woi 
that would make Nero hi 
guisher. When the urge 
didn't have to swap wives. 
They could simply swe 
By the same token, wa: 
like the prince would ha. 
insofar as reality is even a 
odd that he thought it wa5 
raphers strolling through 
offender—when at the tin 
ing, and trading industri 
LTTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
pligarchs, corrupt presidents of 
Eu'ammar Gadhafi, among other 
were explored in a Vanity Fair 
TH ANDREW. 
eing loyal to his friends, a royal 
ard Klein. Take his feelings for 
ince and you bring a woman into 
reasons, she's spit out, you might 
er. The duke feels that she's been 
se relationship with the Duchess 
re have been many problems over 
tich stem from the duchess. Some 
s is inconsistent with being mar-
Luke. There's no question but that 
-destructive element in the .duke's 
r manifested itself last December, 
1. at his home in New York, said a 
n Palace. Epstein was a friend of 
f 20 years. It was the first time in 
;tein. He now recognizes that the 
Arise. 
Low of the two of them together, 
say. 
t the prince's dealings with Jeffrey 
town house, the prince dish 
nephew Prince William to Ka 
; dinner companions were so in 
224 
ested in every detail, a guest in attendance told a New York Post 
gossip columnist. What would Kate wear, what would the 
Queen wear, would his ex-wife Sarah Ferguson be invited? 
Other guests in attendance that night included Chelsea Han-
dler, George Stephanopoulos,. Charlie Rose, Katie Couric, and 
Woody Allen. 
At around the same time, Jeffrey Epstein told the New York 
Post, I'm not a sexual predator, I'm an 'offender.' It's the differ-
ence between a murderer and a person who steals a bagel. 
Was it so remarkable that Prince Andrew would have been seen 
in Epstein's company? Andrew's philandering had been tabloid 
fodder for years. Randy Andy, they called him in the UK. And in 
the circles that Jeffrey Epstein moved in, philandering wasn't 
seen as a vice. Epstein came of age just as industrywide deregu-
lation took hold on Wall Street. Junk bonds were king. Call girls 
were charging ten thousand dollars a night. And in the shadows, 
you'd see things that would have made Caligula blush. Sights 
that would make Nero himself reach for the nearest fire extin-
guisher. When the urge presented itself, the new super rich 
didn't have to swap wives. 
They could simply swap harems. 
By the same token, was it so very strange to think that a man 
like the prince would have grown so detached from reality—
insofar as reality is even a word that applies to a prince? Was it 
odd that he thought it was absolutely fine to be seen by photog-
raphers strolling through Central Park with a registered sex 
offender— when at the time large swaths of the financial, bank-
ing, and trading industries were characterized by their very 
225 
JAMES PATTERSON 
detachment from day-to-day concerns such as morality, ethics, 
and appearances? 
As for Jeffrey Epstein, one question that might be worth ask-
ing is, if he's in fact a narcissist and megalomaniac, could he 
actually believe that he's innocent? Then again, that might be the 
wrong question. Epstein did plead guilty, after all. But what if he 
simply doesn't see what he pleaded to as a crime? What if he's 
proud of his lifestyle? And if that's the case, why wouldn't Prince 
Andrew be proud to be seen in public with his dear friend Jeffrey 
Epstein? 
What if, for people like Epstein and the prince, it's just ser-
vants and masters, the way of the world? They're natural winners — 
aristocrats, after all— and if life were fair, well, how would we 
know who the real winners are? 
11 
226 
Anna Salter: Novembf 
hy do powerful 
and Prince And 
Dr. Anna Si 
sionally. Educated at Harv; 
psychology, she spoke, wit] 
Epstein and others like him 
Consider a car, says 
are brakes. We all have se, 
be a good idea to act on. /‘ 
behavior. We have good br. 
Sexual offenses and in. 
times the result of a bad r 
prepubescent children or e 
children as opposed to po! 
always the result of bad bra 
'ATTERSON 
oncerns such as morality, ethics, 
luestion that might be worth ask-
>ist and megalomaniac, could he 
nt? Then again, that might be the 
ead guilty, after all. But what if he 
.aded to as a crime? What if he's 
rat's the case, why wouldn't Prince 
public with his dear friend Jeffrey 
)stein and the prince, it's just ser-
e world? They're natural winners — 
lie were fair, well, how would we 
226 
CHAPTER 59 
Anna Salter: November 2015 
hy do powerful men do the things that Jeffrey Epstein 
and Prince Andrew have been accused of doing? 
Dr. Anna Salter studies child sex offenders profes-
sionally. Educated at Harvard, with a graduate degree in clinical 
psychology, she spoke, with the benefit of hindsight, about Jeffrey 
Epstein and others like him from her office in Madison, Wisconsin. 
Consider a car, says Dr. Salter. There's a motor, and there 
are brakes. We all have sexual impulses we don't think it would 
be a good idea to act on. Most of us have good control over our 
behavior. We have good brakes. 
Sexual offenses and inappropriate sexual behavior are some-
times the result of a bad motor—for example, an attraction to 
Prepubescent children or eleven-to-fourteen-year-old pubescent 
children as opposed to postpubescent individuals. But they are 
always the result of bad brakes. 
227 
on young girls delude then 
will not harm the child. TI 
medicated it with thinking 
pathic and simply don't caz 
can't say anything about Ei 
but narcissism and psychop 
look at concerning anyone N4 
bescent individuals but wh 
teens. 
Psychopaths are often 
seekers who are bored if not 
manipulate. They do not estE 
They are callous and r( 
don't feel bad about harming 
Rules don't apply to th 
They are sure they won't get 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Antisocial psychopaths don't have brakes at all. 
Dr. Salter has never met Epstein, but she's followed his case 
closely and finds him a familiar type. She's especially struck by 
the singular nature of the relationship between powerful, wealthy 
men and vulnerable, underage women. 
[The men] are more impressive to a fourteen-year-old [girl] 
than to, say, an adult young woman who is self-supporting and 
feels more sure of herself, she explains. 
They are attracted to what they call freshness—barely bud-
ding sexuality and lack of sexual experience. The difference 
between them and their victims feeds their ego. 
Great wealth and access are generally factors that make men 
feel they are entitled to whomever and whatever they want. Some 
have narcissistic personalities with inflated self-images. And of 
course, great wealth and status make such men think they can 
get away with it. Too often, they're right. 
On the other hand, Dr. Salter believes that certain condi-
tions, such as the ones exhibited by Jeffrey Epstein, might be an 
inborn character trait. 
Personality can be influenced, sometimes quite heavily, by 
genetics. 
Virtually no one believes anymore that humans are born a 
totally blank slate, she explains. 
We arrive with temperamental and personality variations 
that, of course, the environment can often, but not always, influ-
ence. We arrive with baggage. 
Is Epstein a born psychopath, then? 
Psychopathy is the umbrella term for individuals who do not 
have a conscience. Pyschopaths are often narcissistic, but nar-
cissists are often not psychopathic. Some individuals who prey 
228 
TTERSON 
ft have brakes at all. 
stein, but she's followed his case 
r type. She's especially struck by 
mship between powerful, wealthy 
women. 
:ssive to a fourteen-year-old [girl 
oman who is self-supporting and 
explains. 
they call freshness—barely bud-
exual experience. The difference 
Is feeds their ego. 
re generally factors that make men 
.ver and whatever they want. Some 
5 with inflated self-images. And of 
us make such men think they can 
Ley're right. 
Salter believes that certain condi-
ited by Jeffrey Epstein, might be an 
nced, sometimes quite heavily, by 
anymore that humans are born a 
ains. 
•amental and personality variatio 
nent can often, but not always, i 
)path, then? 
rella term for individuals who do,_ 
paths are often narcissistic, but 
Lopathic. Some individuals who 
228 
FILTHY RICH 
on young girls delude themselves into thinking that the abuse 
will not harm the child. They have a conscience, but they have 
medicated it with thinking errors. Others are flat-out psycho-
pathic and simply don't care if it hurts the young girl or not. I 
can't say anything about Epstein, as I have not evaluated him, 
but narcissism and psychopathy are concepts an evaluator would 
look at concerning anyone who was sexually attracted to postpu-
bescent individuals but who then began to focus on younger 
teens. 
Psychopaths are often superficially charming, high-stimulus 
seekers who are bored if not doing something. They lie, con, and 
manipulate. They do not establish deep affective ties. 
They are callous and remorseless individuals who simply 
don't feel bad about harming someone. 
Rules don't apply to them because they are exceptional. 
They are sure they won't get caught. 
229 
CHAPTER 60 
Jeffrey Epstein: July 2010 
I. effrey Epstein was done with jail, but he wasn't done settling 
suits brought by his victims. Under the conditions of his 
non-prosecution agreement, he's even paid for the victims' 
lawyers. Still, Epstein's NPA seemed to ensure that he would not 
be prosecuted again for his crimes. Double jeopardy was work-
ing in Epstein's favor. But in July of 2010, reports began to appear 
in the press: federal investigators were following other leads—
leads that could result in child-trafficking charges and a 
twenty-year sentence. 
The Florida attorney general's office refused to comment. It 
was against policy to confirm or deny the existence of an ongo-
ing investigation. One of Epstein's lawyers told the Daily Beast 
that he had no knowledge of such an investigation. Jeffrey 
Epstein has fully complied with all state and federal require-,, 
ments that arise from the prior proceedings in Palm Beach, Jack 
230 
Goldberger said. There; 
not and should not be 
Epstein's complete fulfillm 
agreement with the feder 
If there was an invest 
the moment, Epstein was 
to intellectual pursuits. 1 
Science.com, that featun 
with Jeffrey Epstein, TI 
Jeffrey Epstein, Why 
Epstein, and An Under 
Jeffrey Epstein. The latt. 
Epstein takes you to the 
knowledge to explore an 
the subtle, simple, and hic 
universe. 
Jeffrey doesn't know shit 
art collector who has know 
Does he like to act like he 
these academic scientists—
have any money. 
Other friends of Epstei 
liant mind for science. AnC 
than sponsor individual sc 
ences on Little Saint Jeff's. 
ference called Mindshift at 
theoretical physicist Murra 
geon.s, engineers, and futi 
CHAPTER 60 
th jail, but he wasn't done settling 
ms. Under the conditions of his 
a, he's even paid for the victims' 
emed to ensure that he would not 
Imes. Double jeopardy was work-
Ely of 2010, reports began to appear 
tors were following other leads — 
child-trafficking charges and a 
raPs office refused to comment. It 
or deny the existence of an ongo-
stein's lawyers told the Daily Beast 
of such an investigation. Jeffrey 
with all state and federal require 
-
or proceedings in Palm Beach, Jack 
230 
FILTHY RICH 
Goldberger said. There are no pending civil lawsuits. There are 
not and should not be any pending investigations, given Mr. 
Epstein's complete fulfillment of all the terms of his non-prosecution 
agreement with the federal government. 
If there was an investigation, nothing had come of it yet. For 
the moment, Epstein was free— free to turn his attention, again, 
to intellectual pursuits. He launched a website, JeffreyEpstein-
Science.com, that featured blog posts such as Conversations 
with Jeffrey Epstein, The Value of Quantum Computation to 
Jeffrey Epstein, Why Evolutionary Biology Intrigues Jeffrey 
Epstein, and An Understanding of Theoretical Physics from 
Jeffrey Epstein. The latter post began: This is where Jeffrey 
Epstein takes you to the very cutting edge of the frontiers of 
knowledge to explore and discuss our basic understanding of 
the subtle, simple, and hidden [qualities] that lie beneath ... our 
universe. 
Jeffrey doesn't know shit about science, says Stuart Pivar, the 
art collector who has known Epstein for more than three decades. 
Does he like to act like he does? Yes. But he doesn't. But as far as 
these academic scientists—without people like him they wouldn't 
have any money. 
Other friends of Epstein's say that he truly did have a b
. 
liant mind for science. And in any case, Epstein had done more 
than sponsor individual scientists. He'd also sponsored confer-
ences on Little Saint Jeff's. On his website, he announced a con-
ference called Mindshift at which Nobel laureates, such as the 
theoretical physicist Murray Gell-Mann, would mix with sur-
geons, engineers, and futurists and where professors would 
231 
JAMES PATTERSON 
discuss cognitive neuroscience, artificial intelligence, systems of 
encryption and decryption, and other topics. 
Epstein had been hosting get-togethers like this for years. 
Toward the end of Chief Reiter's investigation, in March of 2006, 
Epstein had hosted twenty top physicists—including three Nobel 
Prize winners as well as the celebrity physicist Stephen Hawking—
at a Saint Thomas symposium called Confronting Gravity, 
which was advertised as a workshop to explore fundamental 
questions in physics and cosmology. 
This is a remarkable group, one of the Nobel Prize winners 
told a reporter for the St. Thomas Source. 
There is no agenda except fun and physics, and that's fun 
with a capital F, Epstein said. 
Epstein had been especially interested in Stephen Hawking. 
Someday, Hawking had theorized, the universe would stop 
expanding and collapse, at which point time would begin to run 
backwards. Hawking believed that computer viruses were living 
things. He thought that given the size of the universe, alien life 
forms existed. He did not believe in God. But he had a vast appre-
ciation for the inner workings of the universe, and this is why 
Epstein gave Hawking a tremendous gift. He paid to have a sub-
marine modified so that it could fit Hawking and his wheelchair 
and give the scientist his first glimpse of an actual alien world—
the one that lies under the waves of the ocean. 
It was one of the most romantic, generous gestures that Jef-
frey Epstein had ever made. 
232 
Al Seckel: January 20E 
Epstein's partner in the 
Al Seckel, was know] 
were said to have incl 
cian James the Amazing : 
founder Elon Musk, as we: 
Epstein would court in the c 
ladder. 
In certain Los Angeles ci) 
to know. But, like Jeffrey Eps 
According to Mark Oppenhe 
and followed his career for fi 
by selling rare books and ix 
academic connections. 
A number of these trans. 
lawsuits, Oppenheimer wol 
)ATTERSON 
artificial intelligence, systems of 
d other topics. 
get-togethers like this for years. 
.'s investigation, in March of 2006, 
physicists—including three Nobel 
brity physicist Stephen Hawking — 
tm called Confronting Gravity, 
vorkshop to explore fundamental 
tology. 
one of the Nobel Prize winners 
las Source. 
Pt fun and physics, and that's fun 
interested in Stephen Hawking. 
orized, the universe would stop 
aich point time would begin to run 
I that computer viruses were living 
a the size of the universe, alien life 
eve in God. But he had a vast appre-
p of the universe, and this is why 
Lendous gift. He paid to have a sub-
uld fit Hawking and his wheelchair 
: glimpse of an actual alien world—
ayes of the ocean. 
mantic, generous gestures that Jef-
232 
CHAPTER 61 
Al Seckel: January 2012 
Epstein's partner in the Mindshift conference, a man named 
Al Seckel, was known for throwing fabulous parties that 
were said to have included the actor Dudley Moore, magi-
cian James the Amazing Randi, and future Tesla and SpaceX 
founder Elon Musk, as well as many of the scientists Jeffrey 
Epstein would court in the course of his own climb up the social 
ladder. 
•-.4i. In certain Los Angeles circles, Al Seckel was a very good man 
-to know. But, like Jeffrey Epstein, Seckel was a sort of illusionist. 
According to Mark Oppenheimer, a journalist who knew Seckel 
and followed his career for fifteen years, Seckel made his money 
by selling rare books and papers, often through his social and 
academic connections. 
A number of these transactions resulted in accusations and 
lawsuits, Oppenheimer would write. In speaking to former 
233 
JAMES PATTERSON 
It was an odd thing, Epste: 
PhD who, on closer inspec 
But the Mindshift confer 
in the Virgin Islands dic 
Mann was there, along wit 
coauthored books with St 
expert on artificial intelli 
attended the conference, 
about it. 
We had scientific disci 
he said vaguely. 
When Mark Oppenheir 
Seckel, Sussman got testy 
I have had some dealir 
want to say what it's aboi 
it, okay? 
Today, Epstein's websites — 
JeffreyEpsteinScience.corn—
long since expired. Several r. 
tribut ions, including New lk 
Palm Beach, announced tha 
gifts. 
The further I can keep 
better, said Ballet Palm Beac 
But in 2012, Epstein held 
Jeff's. Once again, three Nob€ 
Stephen Hawking was also th 
tvventy-one physicists—from . 
Seckel acquaintances, I kept hearing variations on a scheme Mrs. 
Pearce Williams believed he perpetrated against her late hus-
band, the man Seckel said was his mentor. Seckel took books 
and promised money, or he took money and promised a book; 
but somehow, the promised party lost money. 
He was charming, erudite, humorous, one of Seckel's marks 
told the reporter. I lent him $75,000. When the time came to 
pay it back he didn't want to do it. 
Oppenheimer found several people whom Seckel had stiffed 
and uncovered dozens of lawsuits he'd been involved in. In 2007, 
Seckel settled a libel lawsuit against a man who'd edited his Wiki-
pedia page. Years later, Oppenheimer spoke with Seckel's lawyer, 
Nicholas Hornberger. 
Hornberger confirmed that he'd reached a settlement for the 
case, a favorable one, the journalist wrote. Hornberger added 
that Seckel has still not paid him for his services. 
He also interviewed Seckel's wife, Isabel Maxwell. 
Al and Isabel met on a blind date and married in Malibu in or 
around 2007 (I don't keep the dates in my head, Seckel 
explained). A few years later, they moved to the South of France, 
where Seckel continued to trade in rare books and papers. While 
living in France, he was sued by a Virgin Islands company that 
accused him and Isabel of fraudulently attempting to sell rare 
books and a seventeenth-century portrait of Isaac Newton. 
Seckel had also been trying to sell papers belonging to Isa-
bel's father. 
Isabel is Ghislaine Maxwell's sister and the daughter of Rob-
ert Maxwell. 
* * * 
234 
)ATTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
aring variations on a scheme Mrs. 
perpetrated against her late hus-
Ls his mentor. Seckel took books 
)ok money and promised a book; 
rty lost money. 
, humorous, one of Seckel's marks 
$75,000. When the time came to 
D it. 
al people whom Seckel had stiffed 
Lifts he'd been involved in. In 2007, 
;ainst a man who'd edited his Wiki-
heimer spoke with SeckePs lawyer, 
at he'd reached a settlement for the 
trnalist wrote. Hornberger added 
Lim for his services. 
l's wife, Isabel Maxwell. 
Ld date and married in Malibu in or 
:p the dates in my head, Seckel 
they moved to the South of France, 
de in rare books and papers. While 
by a Virgin Islands company that 
7audulently attempting to sell rare 
:Airy portrait of Isaac Newton. 
.ng to sell papers belonging to 
ell's sister and the daughter of Rob-
* * 
234 
It was an odd thing, Epstein's association with this self-professed 
PhD who, on closer inspection, turned out to be a bit of a grifter. 
But the Mindshift conference that Epstein and Seckel hosted 
in the Virgin Islands did take place, in 2010. Murray Gel!-
Mann was there, along with Leonard Mlodinow, a physicist who 
coauthored books with Stephen Hawking. Gerald Sussman, an 
expert on artificial intelligence who taught at MIT and also 
attended the conference, said that he didn't remember too much 
about it. 
We had scientific discussions, talked about various things, 
he said vaguely. 
When Mark Oppenheimer asked him if he'd given money to 
Seckel, Sussman got testy with the reporter. 
I have had some dealings with him, Sussman said. I don't 
want to say what it's about, because I don't feel good about 
it, okay? 
Today, Epstein's websites—JeffreyEpsteinFoundation.com and 
JeffreyEpsteinScience.com—are down. Their domain names have 
long since expired. Several recipients of Epstein's charitable con-
tributions, including New York's Mount Sinai Hospital and Ballet 
Palm Beach, announced that they would not be accepting new 
gifts. 
The further I can keep myself from anything like that the 
better, said Ballet Palm Beach founder Colleen Smith. 
But in 2012, Epstein held one more conference on Little Saint 
Jeff's. Once again, three Nobel Prize winners were in attendance. 
Stephen Hawking was also there. All in all, Epstein had gathered 
twenty-one physicists—from Princeton, Harvard, MIT, and CERN 
235 
JAMES PATTERSON 
(the European Organization for Nuclear Research) — to deter-
mine what the consensus is, if any, for defining gravity. 
According to a press release issued by Epstein's foundation, 
the consensus that did emerge was that space is not quite 
empty. 
Jeffrey Epstein: Februar 
It's Groundhog Day, and c 
ting the peak of his fame 
sode of Law & Order: SV 
own legal history. 
The setup for this episodi 
girl. One who's been flown tc 
vate jet, then flown back—cc 
On the plane, she has a fn 
guy sitting next to her is try 
police get involved. 
It was just a birthday ix 
cops via videoconference fron 
The cops ask: Whose pres 
The billionaire. The one i 
Does the French girl knom 
236 
kTTERSON 
r Nuclear Research) — to deter-
ny, for defining gravity. 
issued by Epstein's foundation, 
r,e was that space is not quite 
CHAPTER 62 
Jeffrey Epstein: February 2, 2011 
1 t's Groundhog Day, and once-reclusive Jeffrey Epstein is hit-
ting the peak of his fame in a ripped-from-the-headlines epi-
sode of Law & Order: SVU that tracks, eerily well, with his 
own legal history. 
The setup for this episode is the rape of a very young French 
girl. One who's been flown to New York on a very rich man's pri-
vate jet, then flown back—coach class—to Paris. 
On the plane, she has a freak-out. She thinks the middle-aged 
guy sitting next to her is trying to rape her. In Paris, the local 
police get involved. 
It was just a birthday party, the tearful girl tells the SVU 
cops via videoconference from France. We were his present. 
The cops ask: Whose present? 
The billionaire. The one who owns the jet. 
Does the French girl know his name? 
236 
237 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Jordan. He wanted a massage. But I had to take off my 
clothes. He climbed on top of me. It hurt. I started to bleed, and 
it wouldn't stop. The doctor came. 
Dominique, the cops say. We're going to arrest this man. 
But we need you to return to New York so you can testify. 
Non, says the girl. Non! Jamais! Jamais! 
For Epstein, there are other embarrassments, many of which 
have to do with his royal friends. The wedding of Prince Wil-
liam and Kate Middleton is approaching, and the ongoing trou-
bles of Prince William's uncle Prince Andrew keep threatening 
to derail the festivities. On March 6, a spokesperson for Sarah 
Ferguson confirms that Epstein paid off part of the seventy-eight 
thousand pounds that the duchess borrowed from a man who 
was once her personal assistant. 
The next day, headlines appear in the Telegraph and other 
British papers: DUKE OF YORK APPEALED TO JEFFREY EPSTEIN TO HELP 
DUCHESS PAY DEBT. 
I personally, on behalf of myself, deeply regret that Jeffrey 
Epstein became involved in any way with me, Prince Andrew's 
ex-wife tells journalists. I abhor paedophilia and any sexual 
abuse of children and know that this was a gigantic error of 
judgment on my behalf. 
I am just so contrite I cannot say. Whenever I can I will 
repay the money and will have nothing ever to do with Jeffrey 
Epstein ever again. 
That week, as part of the ongoing civil lawsuits against 
Epstein, Sarah Kellen and Nadia Marcinkova are both asked 
about Prince Andrew's relations with Epstein. 
238 
F1 
Would you agree with 
Epstein used to share under; 
len is asked. 
On the instructions of 
invoke my Fifth Amendment 
Have you ever been m; 
Andrew? lawyers ask Marci. 
Fifth is Nadia's simple, 
That same week, the gover 
role as Great Britain's royal t 
tenacious, and in the Telegr 
stories appear on a daily basi: 
• The Duke, His Paedophi 
Use of an RAF Base 
• Andrew's Secret Love Lifi 
• Royal Connections: Princ 
Suddenly the Talk of Nev 
• Time to Show This Right 
• An Odd Trio: The Royal 
seuse and the Fixer 
• No. 10 Struggles to Conto 
• From Royal Asset to Nati, 
• Royal Blush 
• Duke Could Be Called to 
• It's the Company You Keep. 
• Nothing Grand About Thi 
• The Royal Family Has 
Choice of Friends For Yea 
• Our Less-Than-Grand Olc 
'ATTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
ssage. But I had to take off my 
lie. It hurt. I started to bleed, and 
Tie. 
• We're going to arrest this man. 
ew York so you can testify. 
ramais! Jamais! 
embarrassments, many of which 
:nds. The wedding of Prince Wil-
)proaching, and the ongoing trou-
: Prince Andrew keep threatening 
[arch 6, a spokesperson for Sarah 
.n paid off part of the seventy-eight 
'chess borrowed from a man who 
at. 
ippear in the Telegraph and other 
'APPEALED TO JEFFREY EPSTEIN TO HELP 
f myself, deeply regret that Jeffrey 
ny way with me, Prince Andrew's 
ibhor paedophilia and any sexual 
• that this was a gigantic error of 
:annot say. Whenever I can I will 
we nothing ever to do with Jeffrey 
he ongoing civil lawsuits against 
Marcinkova are both asked 
)ns with Epstein. 
238 
Would you agree with me that Prince Andrew and Jeffrey 
Epstein used to share underaged girls for sexual relations? Kel-
len is asked. 
On the instructions of my lawyer, Kellen replies, I must 
invoke my Fifth Amendment privilege. 
Have you ever been made to perform sexually on Prince 
Andrew? lawyers ask Marcinkova. 
Fifth is Nadia's simple, succinct reply. 
That same week, the government downgrades Prince Andrew's 
role as Great Britain's royal trade envoy. But the British press is 
tenacious, and in the Telegraph, the Guardian, and elsewhere, 
stories appear on a daily basis: 
• The Duke, His Paedophile Guest, and the Most Unusual 
Use of an RAF Base 
• Andrew's Secret Love Life Revealed 
• Royal Connections: Prince Andrew and the Paedophile Are 
Suddenly the Talk of New York 
• Time to Show This Right Royal Clown the Door 
• An Odd Trio: The Royal Trade Envoy, the Teenage Mas-
seuse and the Fixer 
• No. 10 Struggles to Contain Row Over Prince 
• From Royal Asset to National Liability 
• Royal Blush 
• Duke Could Be Called to Two Epstein Trials 
• It's the Company You Keep... The Duke's Dangerous Liaisons 
• Nothing Grand About This Old Duke of York 
• The Royal Family Has Feared a Blow-Up Over Duke's 
Choice of Friends For Years 
• Our Less-Than-Grand Old Duke of York 
239 
JAMES PATTERSON 
On March 11, a devastating undersea earthquake and tsu-
nami move Japan's main island by several feet, shifting the earth 
on its axis. The destruction is horrific and unprecedented. But 
on March 13, the Daily Mail devotes four pages and seven sepa-
rate articles to Prince Andrew. That same day, the Telegraph runs 
three pieces, and the Sunday Times runs a two-page spread head-
lined GUN SMUGGLER BOASTS OF SWAY OVER ANDREW. 
On March 14, the Guardian runs one more piece about 
Andrew's troubles. 
PRINCE ANDREW DOMINATES HEADLINES DESPITE THE EARTHQUAKE, 
the headline reads. 
Alan Dershowitz: Septen 
If the ongoing lawsuits ar 
millions left to spare. Mea 
whether Epstein trafficked 
seems to be going nowhere. A 
fling to look as if Epstein is flu 
But for Epstein's friend an 
itz, things are about to get ver 
At the start of 2008, Brad 
lawyer, had filed a motion in 2 
of two unnamed women accu: 
showitz of participating direct 
Prince Andrew had had nc 
itz had objected to the accu. 
terms. 
There's absolutely no kern 
240 
ATTERSON 
g undersea earthquake and tsu-
by several feet, shifting the earth 
horrific and unprecedented. But 
:votes four pages and seven sepa-
That same day, the Telegraph runs 
rnes runs a two-page spread head-
4:1' OVER ANDREW. 
ian runs one more piece about 
lEADLINES DESPITE THE EARTHQUAKE, 
240 
CHAPTER 63 
Alan Dershowitz: September 2014 
If the ongoing lawsuits are costing Epstein millions, he has 
millions left to spare. Meanwhile, the FBI's investigation into 
whether Epstein trafficked underage women across state lines 
seems to be going nowhere. As 2014 draws to a close, it's begin-
ning to look as if Epstein is finally free and clear of the case. 
But for Epstein's friend and sometime lawyer Alan Dershow-
i z, things are about to get very unpleasant. 
At the start of 2008, Bradley Edwards, the Fort Lauderdale 
lawyer, had filed a motion in a West Palm Beach court on behalf 
of two unnamed women accusing Prince Andrew and Alan Der-
showitz of participating directly in Epstein's illegal activities. 
Prince Andrew had had no comment to make, and Dershow-
ltz had objected to the accusations in the strongest' possible 
rms. 
There's absolutely no kernel of truth to this story, he'd said. 
241 
JAMES PATTERSON 
I don't know this woman. I've never been in the same place with 
her. She's made the whole story up out of whole cloth. 
Bradley Edwards had already become involved in lawsuits 
against Epstein. In 2007, working with a former federal judge 
and University of Utah law professor named Paul Cassell, he had 
filed a lawsuit on behalf of another unnamed woman. Six years 
later, that case is still pending, and now, Edwards and Cassell 
petition to have the two suits combined. 
All in all, four Jane Does take part in the lawsuit. 
Jane Doe 3 is Virginia Roberts, the girl who says that Ghis-
laine Maxwell recruited her for Epstein at Trump's resort, 
Mar-a-Lago. 
Epstein had lent her and other young girls to prominent 
businessmen, important politicians, world leaders, and other 
powerful men in order to ingratiate himself with them for busi-
ness, personal, political, and financial gain, as well as to obtain 
blackmail information, Roberts claims. 
She says that Epstein forced her and other underage girls to 
take part in an orgy in the Virgin Islands. 
She names Prince Andrew and Alan Dershowitz as two of the 
men she'd been forced to have sex with and claims that Der-
showitz had been an eyewitness to the sexual abuse of many 
other minors by Epstein and several of Epstein's co-conspirators. 
This time, Prince Andrew does respond to the allegations. 
This relates to longstanding and ongoing civil proceedings 
in the United States, to which the Duke of York is not a party, 
Buckingham Palace says in a short statement. As such we would 
not comment on the detail. However, for the avoidance of doubt, 
any suggestion of impropriety with underage minors is categori-
cally untrue. 
242 
Alan Dershowitz also 
are part of a plot to extol 
Edwards and Cassell have 
he's ever seen. 
They manipulated a y 
interested in money, Ders 
offense, and they will be d: 
ever made this false charge 
But then, the allegations m 
15, 2015, in a declaration 
attempt to overturn Jeffrey 
are highly disturbing. 
PATTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
never been in the same place with 
y up out of whole cloth. 
:ady become involved in lawsuits 
•king with a former federal judge 
)fessor named Paul Cassell, he had 
Lother unnamed woman. Six years 
.g, and now, Edwards and Cassell 
combined. 
ake part in the lawsuit. 
berts, the girl who says that Ghis-
r for Epstein at Trump's resort, 
id other young girls to prominent 
iticians, world leaders, and other 
;ratiate himself with them for busi-
financial gain, as well as to obtain 
rts claims. 
:ed her and other underage girls to 
rgin Islands. 
v and Alan Dershowitz as two of the 
ave sex with and claims that Der-
Iness to the sexual abuse of many 
3everal of Epstein's co-conspirators. 
v does respond to the allegations. 
ding and ongoing civil proceedings 
:h the Duke of York is not a party, 
short statement. As such we would 
iowever, for the avoidance of doubt, 
ty with underage minors is categori-
242 
Alan Dershowitz also goes on the attack. Virginia's claims 
are part of a plot to extort him, he claims. The motion that 
Edwards and Cassell have filed is the sleaziest legal document 
he's ever seen. 
They manipulated a young, suggestible woman who was 
interested in money, Dershowitz says. This is a disbarrable 
offense, and they will be disbarred. They will rue the day they 
ever made this false charge against me. It's a vehement denial. 
But then, the allegations made by Virginia Roberts, on January 
15, 2015, in a declaration filed against the government in an 
attempt to overturn Jeffrey Epstein's non-prosecution agreement, 
are highly disturbing. 
243 
CHAPTER 64 
Declaration of Virginia Roberts Giuffre, filed on 
January 19, 2015 by attorneys representing Jeffrey 
Epstein's victims (continued) 
20. Harvard law professor Alan Dershowitz was around 
Epstein frequently. Dershowitz was so comfortable with the 
sex [that] was going on that on one occasion he observed me 
in sexual activity with Epstein. 
21. I had sexual intercourse with Dershowitz at least six 
times. The first time was when I was about 16, early on in 
my servitude to Epstein, and it continued until I was 19. 
22. The first time we had sex took place in New York in 
Epstein's home. It was in Epstein's room (not the massage 
room). I was approximately sixteen years old at the time. I 
called Dershowitz Alan. I knew he was a famous professor. 
23. The second time that I had sex with Dershowitz was 
at Epstein's house in Palm Beach. 
244 
24. I also had sex 
Ranch in New Mexico i 
pool area, which was St 
25. We also had se 
U.S. Virgin Islands. 
26. Another sexual 
itz happened on Epstein 
on the plane with us. 
27. I have recently 
calling me a liar. He 
with me. The man I've .s( 
mer law professor, is th, 
least six times. Dershow 
with other underage girl 
but he is lying and denyii 
28. After years of ab 
look for a way to escape. 
hold because I wanted to) 
taken me into his clutches 
some time I believed him. 
trol, regardless of my doul 
29. I kept asking Epsi 
education. Epstein finally 
to go to Chiang Mai to h 
like my chance to escape. 
bags for good. I knew this 
break away. 
30. On September 27, 2 
to Chiang Mai, Thailand. I 
my training. But Epstein vs 
FILTHY RICH 
CHAPTER 64 
9berts Giuffre, filed on 
-neys representing Jeffrey 
ed) 
- Alan Dershowitz was around 
vitz was so comfortable with the 
on one occasion he observed me 
em. 
urse with Dershowitz at least six 
then I was about 16, early on in 
d it continued until I was 19. 
2d sex took place in New York in 
Epstein's room (not the massage 
y sixteen years old at the time. I 
knew he was a famous professor. 
it I had sex with Dershowitz was 
3each. 
244 
24. I also had sex with Dershowitz at Epstein's Zorro 
Ranch in New Mexico in the massage room off of the indoor 
pool area, which was still being painted. 
25. We also had sex at Little Saint James Island in the 
U.S. Virgin Islands. 
26. Another sexual encounter between me and Dershow-
itz happened on Epstein's airplane. Another girl was present 
on the plane with us. 
27. I have recently seen Alan Dershowitz on television 
calling me a liar He is lying by denying that he had sex 
with me. The man I've seen on television, described as a for-
mer law professor, is the same man that I had sex with at 
least six times. Dershowitz also knows that Epstein had sex 
with other underage girls and lent me out to other people, 
but he is lying and denying that. . . . 
28. After years of abuse and being lent out, I began to 
look for a way to escape. I had first gone into Epstein's house-
hold because I wanted to be a massage therapist. Epstein had 
taken me into his clutches through promises and talk and for 
some time I believed him. But once he had me under his con-
trol, regardless of my doubts and fears, I felt trapped. 
29. I kept asking Epstein for my promised training and 
education. Epstein finally got me a plane ticket to Thailand 
to go to Chiang Mai to learn Thai massage. This sounded 
like my chance to escape. In September 2002, I packed my 
bags for good. I knew this would be my only opportunity to 
break away. 
30. On September 27, 2002, I flew from JFK in New York 
to Chiang Mai, Thailand. I arrived around September 29 for 
my training. But Epstein was going to get something out of 
245 
JAMES PATTERSON 
this trip as well. I was supposed to interview a girl and bring 
her back to the United States for Epstein. 
31. [Left blank in the original] 
32. I did the massage training in Chiang Mai. While I 
was there, I met a great and special guy and told him hon-
estly what I was being forced to do. He told me I should get 
out of it. I told him that the people I was working for were 
very powerful and that I could not walk away or disobey 
them without risking serious punishment, including my life. 
He told me he would protect me. I had confidence [in] him 
and I saw his love and help as my opportunity to escape and 
to be with someone who truly loved me and would protect 
me. I married him and flew to Australia. 
33. I called Epstein and told him I was not coming back. 
He asked why? I said I've fallen in love. Epstein basically 
said good luck and have a good life. I could tell he was not 
happy. I was afraid of what he was going to do to me. I 
thought he or one of his powerful friends might send some-
one to hurt me or have me killed. 
34. From that point onward, out of concern for my safety 
and general well-being, I stayed in Australia with my hus-
band. I was in Australia from late 2002 to October 2013. To 
be clear, I was never in the United States during these years, 
not even for a short trip to visit my mother. And my absence 
from the United States was not voluntary—I was hiding 
from Epstein out of fear of what he would do to me if I 
returned to the United States. 
35. In around 2007, after not hearing from anyone for 
years, out of the blue I was contacted by someone who identi-
fied himself with a plain sounding name and claimed he was 
246 
FT 
with the FBI. It seemed vc 
cial criminal investigatiot 
that. I hadn't heard Epste 
who this person was and I 
tell what was going on. 
36. This man said he 
The man asked if I had be 
instinct was to say nothii 
really with the FBI or any c 
questions, telling him that 
met him at a young age. Bu 
This man never offered to c 
Instead, he asked me right 
practices. I thought it woulc 
ment officer to behave tha 
uncomfortable and suspicit 
ing me. 
37. I told the man nothi 
versation probably didn't 
immediately triggered all oj 
erful friends that had caust 
If the call accomplished an: 
state of fear and told me tl' 
and had nobody officially pt 
38. I suspected that the; 
for Epstein or one of Epstein': 
if this was really an agent 14 
would have known who I wa 
ual crimes in many differet 
viewed me in a way that woul 
PATTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
osed to interview a girl and bring 
for Epstein. 
riginall 
training in Chiang Mai. While I 
id special guy and told him hon-
:ed to do. He told me I should get 
ie people I was working for were 
could not walk away or disobey 
us punishment, including my life. 
ct me. I had confidence [in] him 
) as my opportunity to escape and 
ruly loved me and would protect 
to Australia. 
told him I was not coming back. 
• fallen in love. Epstein basically 
good life. I could tell he was not 
hat he was going to do to me. I 
9werfu1 friends might send some-
killed. 
ward, out of concern for my safety 
stayed in Australia with my hus-
pm late 2002 to October 2013. To 
• United States during these years, 
visit my mother. And my absence 
as not voluntary —I was hiding 
of what he would do to me if I 
tes. 
fter not hearing from anyone for 
contacted by someone who identi-
)unding name and claimed he was 
246 
with the FBI. It seemed very odd for someone doing an offi-
cial criminal investigation to just call up on the phone like 
that. I hadn't heard Epstein's name for years. I didn't know 
who this person was and what it was really about. I couldn't 
tell what was going on. 
36. This man said he was looking into Jeffrey Epstein. 
The man asked if I had been involved with Epstein. My first 
instinct was to say nothing because I wasn't sure he was 
really with the FBI or any authorities. I answered a few basic 
questions, telling him that I knew Jeffrey Epstein and had 
met him at a young age. But the conversation didn't feel right. 
This man never offered to come and meet with me in person. 
Instead, he asked me right off the bat about Epstein's sexual 
practices. I thought it would be strange for a true law enforce-
ment officer to behave that way, so I became increasingly 
uncomfortable and suspicious about who was actually call-
ing me. 
37. I told the man nothing more about Epstein. The con-
versation probably didn't even last three minutes, but it 
immediately triggered all of the fears of Epstein and his pow-
erful friends that had caused me to escape in the first place. 
If the call accomplished anything, it only put me back in a 
state of fear and told me that I could be found quite easily 
and had nobody officially protecting me. 
38. I suspected that the man who called me was working 
for Epstein or one of Epstein's powerful friends. I believed that 
if this was really an agent who was investigating Epstein, he 
would have known who I was and how I fit into Epstein's sex-
ual crimes in many different places. He would have inter-
viewed me in a way that would have established his credentials 
247 
JAMES PATTERSON 
and would have shown how he could provide potential protec-
tion from Epstein. That never happened. 
39. Getting a call from this supposed FBI agent made me 
scared all over again. I had left the old life of sexual slavery 
behind me and started a new life in a new country in hopes 
that the powerful people whose illegal activities I knew all 
about would never find me. 
40. Shortly after this purported FBI call, I was contacted 
by telephone by someone who appeared clearly to be working 
for Epstein. The caller told me about an investigation into 
Epstein and said that some of the girls being questioned were 
saying that Epstein had had sexual contact with them. After 
they made these allegations, the man said they were being 
discredited as drug addicts and prostitutes, but in my case, if 
I were to keep quiet, I would be looked after. The fact that 
this call was made shortly after the supposed FBI call rein-
for[c]ed my concern that the man I had talked to earlier was 
not really working for the FBI but for Epstein. I didn't think 
that the FBI and Epstein would both be working together and 
would both get my phone number at almost exactly the same 
time. I played along and told this person that I had gotten a 
call from the FBI but that I didn't tell him anything. The 
person on the phone was pleased to hear [that]. 
41. A short time later, one of Epstein's lawyers (not Alan 
Dershowitz) called me, and then got Epstein on the line at 
the same time. Epstein and his lawyer basically asked again 
if I was going to say anything. The clear implication was that 
I should not. The way they were talking to me, I was afraid of 
what would happen if I didn't keep quiet. My thought was 
248 
that f I didn't say what 
I might get hurt. 
42. I promised Epste 
quiet. They seemed hap 
to [be the] way to keep 
what Epstein and his lrn 
This declaration, strick 
victims' lawsuit against t 
events that led to Dershow 
involved in spectacular la' 
Dershowitz that these alle 
him, and a complaint by Ei 
against him were false and 
TTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
could provide potential protec-
tappened. 
s supposed FBI agent made me 
ft the old life of sexual slavery 
life in a new country in hopes 
'se illegal activities I knew all 
>orted FBI call, I was contacted 
appeared clearly to be working 
ne about an investigation into 
the girls being questioned were 
;exual contact with them. After 
the man said they were being 
id prostitutes, but in my case, if 
be looked after. The fact that 
fter the supposed FBI call rein-
man I had talked to earlier was 
3I but for Epstein. I didn't think 
id both be working together and 
nber at almost exactly the same 
1 this person that I had gotten a 
I didn't tell him anything. The 
Ised to hear [that]. 
Le of Epstein's lawyers (not Alan 
then got Epstein on the line at 
us lawyer basically asked again 
g. The clear implication was that 
,ere talking to me, I was afraid of 
ln't keep quiet. My thought was 
that if I didn't say what they wanted me to say, or not to say, 
I might get hurt. 
42. I promised Epstein and his lawyer that I would keep 
quiet. They seemed happy with that and that seemed to me 
to [be the] way to keep me and my family safe. And I did 
what Epstein and his lawyer told me. I kept quiet. 
This declaration, stricken from the record by the judge in the 
victims' lawsuit against the government, also set in motion 
events that led to Dershowitz's and Roberts's lawyers becoming 
involved in spectacular lawsuits, which included a complaint by 
Dershowitz that these allegations were false and had defamed 
him, and a complaint by Edwards that Dershowitz's accusations 
against him were false and defamatory. 
248 249 
CHAPTER 65 
Alan Dershowitz: October 2015 
About fifteen minutes into the ripped-from-the-headlines 
episode of Law & Order: SVU that was inspired by the Jef-
frey Epstein saga, the plot takes an interesting turn: before 
officers have a chance to arrest him, Jordan, the character mod-
eled on Epstein, shows up at SVU headquarters. 
The twelve-year-old French girl raped him, Jordan says. 
Wearing a monogrammed fleece pullover like the ones favored 
by Jeffrey Epstein, he describes an evening at home. 
The party was in full swing, he explains. A friend said she 
wanted to give me a special present. Told me to wait in my mas-
sage room— 
An SVU guy interrupts: Guy has a massage room? 
I suffer from chronic back pain, Jordan says. 
While I was waiting, I fell asleep. Now, at first I thought I 
must be dreaming. I was aroused. I felt myself being manually' 
250 
manipulated. Then I reme: 
enjoy myself. But then it gc 
eyes. 
What did you see? 
A woman. A woman Ic 
A woman? Dominique 
It was dark. I just wan. 
But the twelve-year-olc 
No. She threatened me. 
she was going to scream `R 
And there was nothini 
years and a hundred pound 
The party was going on: 
was going to look. I was nake 
It was a brilliant plot tw-
dan to get off scot-free. 
But the plot twist that / 
on the day of Alan Dershow 
Florida, courthouse was eve 
There was a criminal extort 
Edwards and Paul Cassell's I 
2015. 
Your clients were involv 
Bradley and Cassell had s 
for defamation—payback fo 
law professor had made in th 
Dershowitz had counters 
and he had come armed for b 
