The Billionaire' s Playboy Club
By Virginia Roberts
To my true love Robbie who believes in me every step of the way and
to all of my children, you are all my very inspirations!
Chapterl
Every single person in this shared world together has a unique story of
his or her own to tell, this one is mine.
It was coming up to my third night camping out at Miami Beach in the
summer of 1997. I was thirteen years old and hiding from a world full of
hurt. Sitting on the shoreline for hours watching the sunset fall deeper
into the horizon, my eyes were glazed over with tears, not from being
wind -whipped by the rough sea breeze, but from reflecting on the abuse 1
encountered as a young girl and how everyone in my life who was
supposed to be there for me had now turned their backs on me in
abandonment. My fears crept up and the excitement of escaping all of
them faded now realizing how alone I really was now, and for the hunger
that was paining my belly. At this point, with nowhere to go and only
time to waste, I wiped the tears from my eyes and set out to find an
empathetic person that I could manage to get dinner money from. If not,
it wouldn' t have been the first time I had gone hungry for the night. I
walked to the nearest bus stop and asked a handful of people for any
spare change, none of whom that could help me. Sitting down on a
nearby curb disappointed in grief of my current state, I put my head into
my knees and began to sob.
Out of nowhere, it seemed, a black stretch limousine turned the corner
and stopped in front of the curb where 1 had been hopelessly lost. The
back door opened to reveal a heavy weight and balding, old man with a
big cheesy smile. Neatly dressed in black trousers and a collared shirt, he
was sitting next to a striking young, blonde girl, drop dead beautiful and
dressed in a foxy red mini dress she looked like a model just stepping off
a runway.
Their smiles greeted me warmly and he kindly asked,  What is such a
sweet little girl like you doing sitting alone on the street looking so
upset? Shocked from this strangers concern I was hesitant in telling him
the truth. Reluctantly I decided to tell him that I was a runaway, not from
around here and really hungry. Hoping at most, I would get some money
for food from him. He instantly displayed a chilling excitement and
offered me to come into his car so we could talk some more. That
should' ve been my first queue to get out of there quick but with no where
to go, and so naive I didn' t realize how much worse it could get. Setting
foot into that limo, I made my first entrance into a world that would
entrap me for many years to come.
He introduced himself immediately as Ron Eppinger, a businessman
and owner of a successful modeling agency, called  Perfect 10.
Flaunting his oozing wealth by introducing one of his many girlfriends,
the beauty next to him was Yana, a supposed model from the Czech
Republic who looked like she could be in her early twenties with the
heavy load of makeup she was wearing, but really was only in her late
teens. She kissed me on both cheeks and politely said  Hello in a thick
Czech accent, making me feel a little more at ease. Convinced it couldn' t
be that bad there was another girl in the car, right? I couldn' t be more
wrong.
What he didn' t tell me to begin with was that his modeling agency was
only posing for an undercover trade. By the time I found out 1 thought it
was too late to run. His business was really an illegal immigrant
trafficking ring of young women mostly consisting of underage girls that
he was using as escorts to make him Liber rich. Only available to a
selective clientele costing them anywhere from S 1000. 00 and over per
hour of erotic entertainment, the girls were trained to fulfill every sexual
desire asked of them, no matter how bizarre the requests might be. The
high paid escorts, for Ron' s super rich clientele, such as Yana and many
other charismatic beauties would only benefit a fraction of their earnings
for themselves, Ron reaping in the majority of the financial rewards and
being they were all illegal immigrants they were further trapped by his
enslavement.
I proceeded to introduce myself, besides what he had found out about
me on the curbside. Telling him my name and a little about how 1 ended
up on the streets explaining that I could take care of myself and didn' t
need my family or anyone to look after me anymore. Looking back later
in life I can now admit I was in a terrible state, but being such a
headstrong teenager, I refused to give in. He asked my age and I told him
I was sixteen at first. He coyly replied,  Are you sure? I think you could
be telling me a fib? How old are you... really? I wont be mad Being a
terrible liar, I knew had been caught out and couldn' t deny it any further.
I told him the truth and he chuckled then paused and answered in a very
serious tone  As long as you never lie to me again I will take you in
Right away I pondered to myself what did he mean ... take me in?
He gave the driver the location of our destination and rolled the middle
window back up to then tell me a story of how his daughter had passed
away seven years ago from a horrific car accident in which four other
teens were killed and he has never gotten over it. I reacted with sheer
Cop- ght I' - wed Mat - al
CONIgDEN' i 1AL
GIUF17RE004134
g
Copvtight Protcctcd Ma - 31 .
CONFIDENnAL
GIUI'FRE004I35
AGREN BLANDO REPORTING
31 J C I A

sympathy and gave him my pity, believing this man had a heart. His next
proposal was eerie, he said, If you wanted, I can be your new Daddy.
Someone to take care of you and you' ll be my new baby forever he
stroked my hair such as a caring parent would comfort a scared child. A
part of me wanted to accept his words and believe he really could feel
that way, and then I also considered how hard it was living on the streets.
In the end I convinced myself this would be the lesser of two evils.
The car stopped at a plaza on the water, surrounded by little boutique
shops, restaurants, and little stalls with items for sale like sunglasses and
costume jewelry. I didn' t know what to say or do or how to act, it all
happened so fast I just went along with everything lie said, for now.
We went to a take out restaurant and ate on the waterside, and
afterwards he took me to G. A. P Kids co. to dress me in his idea of proper
attire, tiny cutoff shorts revealing the cusp of my buttocks and some shirts
that barely fit, even the sales assistant was shocked at what she thought
was my Grandfathers choice in clothing. I couldn' t even believe it myself
only an hour ago I was begging for money living on the streets and now I
was dining alfresco and shopping at name brand outlets. We then hit a
couple of more specialty stores afterwards. He said he had to buy me a
few more necessities to start with. Lacy G- strings and what looked to me
like lingerie pieces I had only seen grown women wearing in magazine
ad' s or movies was now a part of my wardrobe, in my mind it was a big
step up from being a little girl any longer.
The driver took us back to Ron' s grand apartment overlooking the isle
of Key Biscayne and a large bridge leading into a Miami Harbor.
Entering his residence, I was blown away by the spectacular view, rich
decor, and white marble floors that were so glossy it looked as if I was
stepping on glass. He took my shopping bags to a large room at the back
of the apartment and put them into a small closet. The room was
considerably large with glass exterior walls that maximized the potential
of the panorama landscape soaking in the seascape of Miami. In the room
was a gigantic round bed raised off the floor by three steps and mirrors on
the ceiling. It looked like a honeymoon suite out of a raunchy hotel. He
then exclaimed,  This is my room here and you will be sharing it with
me When I asked him where I would sleep he then sickly replied  With
me silly, where else of course? With no room for argument I pretended
to be OX with everything that my common sense was screaming out in
my head to run.
Next I was taken down a long hall at the other end of the apartment to
meet five more exotic beauties. Three girls were in their late teens and the
other two in were in their early twenties. All of them were from the
Czech, here under false passports provided by Ron and his contacts. Yana
held my hand while introducing me to the group of girls as  Baby a pet
name she came up with for me, being I was the youngest one among them
or ever to be brought in by Ron for that matter. It became my new
identity not even worrying to mention my real name to anyone anymore.
My identity was no longer important to myself, I wanted to become
someone new and  Baby is who I was.
A shocking first impression, the girls were completely nude revealing
their voluptuous young bodies with such a careless ease and others were
in just a G- string, similar to the one' s Ron had bought me earlier. They
were all stunning girls and full of life. Charismatic and beautiful, they
were the girls who should be on the front of billboards not selling their
bodies to old crewed men for sex. Doing each other' s make- up in front of
the mirror and chatting away on the bed with no care in the world, aiming
at persuading me to see the highlights of the life Ron gave them and they
almost did. Ron left the room for a few moments, letting us all get to
know each other a little better and that' s when I started to compile an
understanding of what really went on here.
Just catching a bit of their conversation from before my introduction, I
heard them chatting about the night they were preparing for. Speaking
excitedly about some men they would be entertaining in a few hours, one
girl was talking about going out to sea with one o these clients on a yacht
for a few days. Since none of the girls seemed shy to talk about their
professions or anything for that matter, I decided to ask them a few
questions about what they did. They were more than happy to expand on
their point of view in the conversation, attempting to paint a pretty picture
of what they were paid to do.
They all began to jump up and down with excitement like giddy school
girls at a slumber party. Another girl with jet-black hair and a thick
accent, wearing absolutely nothing at all, grabbed me onto the bed with
them and into their fiasco, instantly making me feel accepted into their
sorority, like I actually belonged somewhere for once. Yana went on to
explain a little more in detail,  We accompany the wealthy friends of
Ron. They want only beautiful girls by their side so we come and act
however they want us too but most importantly we make them think we
want them back too. Other girls began to jump in with their vivid points
of view while playing with my hair, they were taking turns brushing and
styling it as they were filling my head with all of the prospects I could
have as an escort too. They made me feel beautiful like them, too
beautiful for what a girl beyond my years should feel. I was simply being
lured into a dangerous trap, just like they had been at a young age too.
It pretty much all came down to two things in their game, the money
they would make and the lifestyle they were given. Their enthusiasm only
interested me further, making it not only sound like an acceptable way of
living but also appearing to keep them all vivaciously satisfied. This way
Il Copvright ]', elected Material 11 Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDLN I IAL GIUFFRE004136 CONFIDENTIAL GIUITRE004137
of life was just mind blowing to even comprehend at first. With such a
new outlook of the world to try and grasp at my young age I was listening
to every word spoken to me with such attentiveness, I was going to try
and model what I was observing from the girls. I justified their way of
thinking in my head for now, thinking if all these girls seem happy
enough, why couldn' t I try to be, it was this or the streets for me.
Ron came back for me not long after our conversation got out of hand
and took me to a bathroom down the hall. He opened the tap and filled a
small plastic cup with water and handed me two small blue oval pills.
Telling me to take them both as they would help me to relax a little bit
more. I swallowed the pills just following his orders. I put the cup on the
counter top and turned back around to face him. Backing me up against
the wall and now cornered by this large man I felt his slithering hands
began to creep under my shirt, writhing my skin_ I closed my eyes tightly
and turned my head away from him, hoping he would take my actions as
a sign of being extremely uncomfortable but that wouldn' t bother him at
all. He was half enjoying my reaction from the smug look on his face,
and persisted through it.
Continuing to undress my clothes he said he wanted to look me over
and clean me up. It was so humiliating having to expose myself to this
ageing man and now I knew he was going to end up with his hands and
whatever else all over me. All too soon I hated to be right, as I stood
naked before his widened eyes, he told me  you' re a hairy bagger I' ll
have to shave you right up young lady, and I didn' t know he wasn' t just
talking about my legs. Standing with my legs wide apart while this man
coaxed me through the entire ordeal of shaving, his hands made me feel
so dirty.  Have I lost my mind? I thought to myself but I had to play
nice until I had an opportunity to get away, this was not as fun as the girls
made it out to be after all, this was utterly disgusting. I had no idea what
was going to happen next with this guy, and due to whatever
pharmaceuticals he gave me, I still don' t know to this day.
Waking up the next morning my head was pounding in an agonizing
thumping pain and I was so thirsty. The satin sheets thankfully covered
my body, which was still nude from the night before, and I could hear
hushed voices standing over the bed where I was pretending to still be
asleep. Listening in on their conversation I kept my eyes shut. I knew
Ron' s voice from two of the men but not recognizing the other guys I just
stayed quiet hoping they' d soon leave. Ron was telling the other man
what atrocities he got up to the night before with me and I heard him say,
Doesn' t she even look like an angel the way she sleeps? She' s my own
little angel! He exclaimed proudly. I opened my eyes and rolled over to
face them both having to wrap the sheets over my body, really not
knowing what to say except  Good -morning in a blushful tone. Ron
introduced me to his business partner and told to go get dressed. He had
my whole day planned out for me already. Booked into get my hair
colored, a much lighter tint of blonde, and afterwards a day of shopping
with the girls I was becoming exactly what he wanted me too, a carbon
copy of the teenage Barbie... only I wasn' t plastic and came with many
benefits.
Days turned into weeks, being a servant to the sexual desires of this
distorted pervert. I dreamt of escaping but where would I go and how
would I get away from Ron with him controlling my every second of my
day. Separating myself from the other girls being so uncomfortable with
enduring the everyday occurrences I was longing for the solitude of the
beach again. They were training me up to be an escort prodigy or
something like it. Outrageous orgies were conducted as my lessons with
the girls teaching me all of their tricks in the game, it was all for the sake
of men' s perverted fantasies, they didn' t get anything from being sexually
exploited and molesting each other, except getting paid for it. Everything
from oral sex too penetration with toys, i was expected to not only to join
in but even perform ludicrous acts of hedonism.
1 was Thirteen years old and had never heard the terminology of these
sexual acts before, and definitely shouldn' t have been learning them first
hand. Thrown into a world of chaos, 1 didn' t know what to do except be
as compliant as possible, even when asked to do the most degrading
tasks. The excitement of the lifestyle he offered quickly diminished once
I had to pay so dearly for it. The girls that subdued to this lifestyle and
enjoyed it definitely put on a good act, but no little girl with hopes and
dreams of their untainted future, turns to her mother and say' s  one day 1
dream of being a prostitute, passed around from man to man, only to
grow older regretting so much of my life It was all a part of an illusion
that Ron painted for us that made it seem so alluring in the first place.
Spending my days with Ron, he took advantage at every chance given.
Even in his convertible with the top down I would be forced to go topless
while he drove around, when I asked him why one day, it was supposedly
so I could maintain an even suntan, but I knew it was his way of showing
off his treasures. It was a far cry from the simple country life I had been
raised in. Wearing designer miniskirts and tops that always revealed too
much, of course due to Ron and the girls determining everything i wore,
ate, or spoke. We would spend our days at hair laser clinics, shopping,
tanning beds, and eating as little as possible. Through the nights we were
expected to become party animals and greet Ron' s clientele with the
upmost flirtatious attention and doting as possible. Then whether we were
out for dinner, at a party, or at a club, the men would choose his girl and
take her home. Every girl had a different price and so did the charges
depending on the various clienteles but Ron always kept me for himself.
Cnpvright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL
Copyright Protected Material
GIUFFRE004138 CONFIDENTIAL 0I11I' FRE004139
I
I would always dread the end of every night, fearing what new desires
he had in- store for the evening. Sometimes he would hurt me and tell me
to try and enjoy it then do it over and over again until I gave him exactly
what he wanted, I always resisted until I could no more, he was too
overpowering and relentless at getting the results he wanted. At other
times lie could be so gentle and caress my skin, worshiping every inch of
my body, all relying upon on what mood he was in. Often though he liked
to play the teacher role and instruct me on every motion and explain what
would happen when I did those certain things to him. No matter what he
did to me I was only disgusted with myself more and more. I still shudder
at the thought of how he used my body.
I turned fourteen in August that same year and was spending my
birthday loaded on a concoction of pharmaceuticals and alcohol, being
generously supplied by the very man who swore his devotion to caring
for my every need. I didn' t even know myself any longer, completely
shying away from the girl I had grown up to be until to this point. The
apartment was empty except for me, for the time being, and that was
God' s own little present for me ... some solitude for once I thought.
Pouring myself another drink I opened the sliding glass doors to the \
balcony and walked to the edge. Looking down from the many stories
where Ron' s apartment was, I wished myself a happy birthday out loud
and wondered if my family even remembered the day' s occurrence.
Dwelling in my sadness for the fourteen years of suffering and
loneliness I had already endured, the tears swelled up in my eyes,
trickling downwards making my eyeliner inevitably leak down my
cheeks. Inside I felt so trapped and began to entertain the thought of
jumping over the edge, it all seemed much easier, and the simple
blackness that death had to offer rather than the tangled mess I was so
tired of fighting to get out of seemed a much easier approach. Detached
from wanting to feel anything, I became so numb towards my life' s own
tragedies. I couldn' t live like this any longer. I lifted my bare legs over
the edge of the railing and sat looking at the ground beneath me so close
to even just slipping off the edge to my very death. I couldn' t think of any
reason not to fall. I thought I had made too many bad decisions to keep
going on but some force of a higher nature had other things in store for
me.
The sliding door slammed open with a burst of speed and Ron scooped
me up in his big arms and brought me inside to our bedroom. Laying me
down and seeing the look of despair in my eyes from my tear stained face
he went into the bathroom cupboard and returned with three pink pills.
Forcing me to swallow them using the angered tone of his voice he
thought he was turning my sorrows into a distant dream as I passed out in
his tight clutches, crying myself all the way to sleep. He didn' t even ask
me what was wrong, probably because he knew already.
Soon enough the crumbling of his evil empire in the underworld of
selling sex for his own advantage began with a single crack in his perfect
scheme, and proudly it all started with me. Ron got a scare one -day and
rampaged through his apartment telling us girls to only pack our
important belongings and some clothes as we all had to leave right away.
I didn' t have much belonging to me so I basically sat there watching
everyone rush around frantically and was curious what could' ve gotten a
man like Ron so scarred. Once we were packed up and in the limo he was
trying to calm the frantic girls down after all the panic that spread through
the apartment like wildfire, I was the only one sitting there half amused at
the entire situation.
He began by assuring us that everything was going to be fine. Calmly
he continued to tell all of us packed in tightly, even for a limo, that we
were all taking a long trip to Florida' s countryside because someone has
reported an anonymous tip to the missing persons unit at the local police
station identifying a very young girl as a possible victim of abuse living
at his apartment. Ron knew what a landmine of trouble he had brought
upon himself making an exhibition out of me on the streets of Miami, I
didn' t pull off the older look like the other girls, I actually looked
younger than my age with my blue eyes and freckles always giving the
impression of my youthful innocence.
Now he just had to do whatever it took to ensure he stayed as far away
from the authorities as possible. Arriving at a ranch in central Florida
many hours later and I assumed it belonged to Ron knowing never to ask
him things like that. I knew my purpose and it wasn' t prying into his
personal life outside of the bedroom. There was a main house, a few
cottages, some staff quarters and paddocks where the horses were kept. I
was in heaven ... I thought at first. Finally, something I could really enjoy.
Riding was my passion, basically growing up on the backs of horses since
I was just able to walk.
Not surprisingly I began to despise Ron and all of the girls for the
gross exploits they made me do with them. Beginning to isolate myself
from everyone I' d rather spend my time sitting under a tree watching the
horses graze, writing in my journal or painting but mostly avoiding
everyone possible unless Ron required me elsewhere. Nighttime was
always a reoccurring nightmare for me. Relived over and over again in
many various ways. Ron would always start by making me some drinks
and offering an assortment of pills before indulging himself by
grotesquely putting his genitals in my mouth and tell me how to give him
what he would call a  first-class blow -job, and 1 was being judged every
minute of it. Ordering me to slowdown or speedup or maintain a perfect
Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDLN RAL
OIUFFRL004140
Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL
rhythm I was constantly being criticized for my efforts in pleasing him. I
was eager when he actually gave me a compliment. The rest of the
evening was always a surprise left up to a moments notice. Quite
regularly he would proceed with having the girls dress me up in some
sexy outfit and loads of makeup then entertain him with a lesbian
reenactment revolving him in the center. Sometimes they would use
dildos and other foreign sex toys, Ron liked to see us hurt during sex,
sometimes even penetrating me anally but I always resisted and would try
to redirect him with another sexual desire of his but I had no excuses
when it came to me having to use the sex toys on him, he told me how
men have g -spots in their rectum and instructed me on how to precisely
penetrate him. These nights went on what seemed like an eternal sentence
for the price of not living on the streets, where unfortunately for the one' s
still there, I feared and knew from my own personal experience, could be
much worse.
Needing some contact with someone of my adolescent mentality I
called one of my school friends from the past, whom I wont name out of
privacy, but I' ll call him T.J. We were so close and I knew very well, so
well, I had memorized his number a long time before. He was my first
puppy love sprung from of a childhood friendship. Being my very first
crush the summer before all of this happened he was the only person I
could think of that would care enough to talk to me.
In the middle of the day, the least busy time to be noticed, I snuck into
one of the vacant guest rooms and used the phone to call my good friend.
The sound of my voice radiated a chill in him.  It' s you, oh my God
Jenna! Are you okay? he was so shocked to hear from me and the sheer
fact 1 was still alive. Nearly three months now without a single word to
my family or friends, every one doubted my return. My attempt to forge a
happy voice when I spoke to him failed and I absolutely crumbled when
he was at a loss for kind words for me. I told him of my current state of
affairs. Telling him of Ron and how I was terrified of him, trying to
escape in the middle of nowhere was useless. It was like being kept in
cage that 1 was unable to break free from. Going on to dump my issues on
T.J, I proceeded with how I longed to call my family and to be with my
them for good but was too afraid they didn' t want me, knowing I' d just
be sent away somewhere else again and to me after all this time was like
going from one cage to another.
He had been called by them numerously and promised me that they
were very worried and even hired private investigators to try and find me.
Given I was eleven years old the first time I was sent away, my trust in
there sincerity he spoke about was seriously doubted. I kept the
conversation short just in case my absence was being noticed and I left on
the note that I would speak to him again shortly. His attempts to get off
the phone were nothing short of desperate plea to keep me on as long as
possible. I thought he was just trying to help in someway. Giving him
assurance in the fact I had survived this long obviously I can hold off a
while longer I gave him my love and told him I' d be in touch.
Thinking I had slipped away unnoticed I entered into the room that I
shared with Ron, hoping I got away with my brief and very needed phone
call. The place looked empty and everyone else seemed to be out and
about so I decided to have a bath in the spa and try to relax before the
night' s precautions. My body glided into the steamy water as 1 began to
think about T. J and how good it felt just to hear from a friendly voice. My
thoughts drifted into the days I missed when 1 felt I could be silly and
childlike and I nearly forgot for a moment how grown up I was acting
these days.
My first glimpse at the image surrounding me when I resurfaced above
the water was daunting. There was Ron was standing over my tub,
looking down at me with an eager display of his arousal. He began to
undo his pants and take them down when he told me  put your lips on my
cock, I was too slow in responding to his request so he grabbed me by
the back of the head and forced me into his groin. I had tears streaming
down my face as I looked up to him with the saddest blue eyes hoping he
would take pity and stop, but he never did. I was really hurt by his
aggression and he definitely knew it this time, which I believe only made
him more heated. I closed my eyes and began to count using the time to
keep my thoughts elsewhere believing every number I counted only
furthered me to the end of this. I just got over a hundred when he finally
exploded in fulfillment still half submerged in the deep bath I was
struggling to gain my bearings in as Ron was picked me up out of the
bath and carried me to go to the bedroom, which was just outside the
French adjoin doors. Still damp from the hot water in the spa 1 had goose
bumps from the chill of the fresh air where he brought me to the bed and
proceeded to deeply violate my every being. Eventually his scars that he
left were too deep ever to be healed and would even carry on through the
years to come.
Upon his bursting with pleasure for the second time, he just got up
and left, without even saying a word to me. Left alone I was awake for
hours after that. There was no escaping the pain that night. I lay naked
wrapped in the sheets, sobbing in the dark. My feelings of being hurt and
disgusted after his abusive ordeal  When will it ever stop I prayed to
God and begged for death rather than face another day in my life. I woke
up still alone the next day and exasperated from the misery I felt the night
before. Ushering through my drawers to find something to throw on I
could care less what lay in store for me today, couldn' t be as bad as being
raped by a scary man repeatedly.
10
Copvright Protected Material
0 Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENT 1AL GIUF=, 004142 CONFIDENTIAL 6'1UI LRE004143
Starting my day with a few of the supplied oxytocin' s and a bloody
mary, made by the live- in house chef. Having two celery sticks for my
breakfast, I wanted to lye out by the pool and forget the world. Ron hated
tan -lines so to be caught with a bikini top on was a big no -no in his vile
book but after my cries to stop were so blatantly ignored last night, I was
out to piss him off so I didn' t remove my shirt. I put on my headphones
and before I knew it had fallen into a deep slumber from my self-made
therapeutic cocktail, the only way I knew how to cope with the emotional
turmoil on the inside.
Desperate to hear his voice I called my friend TJ a few more times that
week. I needed to feel like someone out there really knew me. Sometimes
we could just chat like old friends with no care in the world and laugh at
a distant memory from too long ago. Then would come the good- bye part
of the conversation and we would both get teary- eyed not knowing what
could happen next or if this would even be the last time we ever spoke to
each other again.
My biggest fear came to reality when I was in our bedroom one
afternoon, just lounging around out of boredom. Ron came bursting in
through the door, red as a tomato. I Couldn' t help but feeling I was in big
trouble. His face was distorted and raging towards me. I knew right away
he must have found out that I was calling TJ, but how, I had no idea. I
had always tried to be as invisible as possible, soon enough it was all
explained.
Are you trying to get me caught? You are nothing but a stupid girl
you know that! What am 1 supposed to do with you now? He was
tearing up the room while his rants gave me something else to think
about. What would he do with me if he had no use for me any longer? I
wasn' t even thinking about him being caught for soliciting illegal
immigrants for the purpose of prostitution. I was more worried that he
would be upset at the fact I was talking to another guy, maybe even
jealous that he was at least my age. I replied with simple sentences that I
could manage to get out between all the shouting. I kept saying,  I' m
sorry and putting my head down in shame. He picked me up by my
throat pinning me against the wall,  You are going away, far -far away
from me and you better be nicer to the next man I send you to, I' ve heard
he' s not a nice as most would like. Are you fucking hearing me Bitch? I
slid down the wall, choking on the first air entering my lungs, breathless
and terrified, I never thought Ron was a nice guy but I had never seen
him lose it this bad. Now 1 was being sent me away to another stranger,
another man, it only terrified me more.
The girls came in to say their good- byes all of them were crying and
asking me in their best English languages, why I had to call someone and
lose everything? I was able to find out through the broken sobs off of
them that the confession came from the house -keeper who said she saw
me use the room regularly but was never messed up, so Ron looked at the
recent telephone bills and found the same number dialed from that room
consecutively, he knew it was me right away. At least he didn' t know it
was another guy, I thought to myself, or I probably wouldn' t have made it
out of there alive.
Ron came back to usher the girls out of my room and told me I had five
minutes to pack my clothes, which he made clear were to be my only
belongings to take with me. He washed his hands clean of me that night,
or so he thought. The driver came knocking at my door, just as Ron said,
no longer than the five minutes that he had offered me and he took my
single bag to the car. I didn' t want all the jewelry, music or books that he
so caringly bought me as tokens of his twisted affection. Only taking my
clothes and a wad of hundred dollar bills I had been saving, I slit a hole in
my scrunchie inserting my cash for a rainy day that 1 was more than sure
was just around the corner. .
We drove for hours, until I started seeing familiar surroundings. I
couldn' t believe my own eyes. I was back in Miami, but not on the
beaches, somewhere in the CBD this time. The Driver delivered me to the
front door with my one bag and waited at the door with me. Now I knew
how it felt to be a puppy picked from her litter as you can only hope your
next owner would treat you with some sort of kindness.
Another balding man answered the door but he wasn' t so grotesquely
fat like Ron, but still a new owner at that. He looked me up and down and
seemed amused as he snickered to himself. With one last look to the
driver over my shoulder it was almost an appeal to him for some way to
help me. I knew he couldn' t anyways, I was just hoping. He told me his
name was Charlie but didn' t even bother in asking me for mine. I was
sure Ron already filled in all of my details when he arranged this.
Charlie picked up my bag and led me into his bachelor pad townhouse.
I was never given a welcoming tour of my new residence or made to feel
comfortable. He walked me up the stairs and opened one of the doors in
the small hallway. Telling me this would be my room, he showed me into
it and told me to wait, he would be back shortly. I sat on my bed afraid to
touch anything and after the warning Ron gave me I knew I had to watch
my step around here. I put my head down onto the pillows my where
world was falling apart and let my emotions downpour. Exhausted from
the days emotional turmoil I ended up falling asleep. I don' t even know if
he ever came in at all that night.
The next morning I looked out of the window to see my new
surroundings. It was a beautiful sunny day outside, unlike the dreary cell
I was locked away inside of. Feeling the sun warm up my face through
the glass, it radiated a familiar sense of comfort from the days of the good
11
12
Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL
Copyright Protected Material
GIUFFRE004144 CONFIDENTIAL (, It1FFRL004145
parts of my childhood. I reminisced how it had used to be before all my
life turned upside down. Before all of the fights with my family, before I
had to look after myself, and before I was a slave to men.
Those days were too long gone now. With too many hard times passing
me by it seemed surreal to think that life had ever even existed in the first
place. With that thought I shook myself out of reminiscing that way.
Whatever was going to happen was out of my control now, I just had to
give myself some hope that I would have the strength to get myself out
these circumstances before anything really bad happened.
Chapter 2
The house was quiet so I just assumed Charlie was still asleep. I
decided to get cleaned up and have a shower. Not even a knock on the
door when Charlie walked in with ease.  Typical I thought. It was an
easy way for Charlie to break the ice.  You really are as beautiful as Ron
said as he opened the curtain. Watching me rinse myself in the shower
and me knowing I had no way out of this except to go along with
whatever he wanted. I just looked down at the mention of Ron' s name,
wondering what else he had told Charlie about me. Realizing later that he
wouldn' t have said anything anyways, in fear I would' ve been a damaged
product that wouldn' t make him the money that young girls go for.
He just sat on the side of the vanity top and continued to take
observations of me standing submerged under the falling water. I avoided
looking at him and let him do all the talking, after all I knew what I had
to say was of no importance, that is if he was anything like Ron. Between
the water beating down over my head I could slightly hear him ramble on
about some club and restaurant he owned in FT. Lauderdale. He said he
was going to take me shopping for some club outfits and we would party
together tonight, as if 1 was supposed to be excited over this so- called
treat of his.
I looked up and gave him a quick smile adding a compliant nod and
turned my attention to turning off the faucets and quickly grabbing my
towel. I was falling so far from who I used to be, shying away from my
outgoing personality to a quiet girl that didn' t even recognize herself in
the mirror anymore. I dried myself off and looked at the man standing
between the doorway and me. He was still watching me with a sleazy
look on his face but now preceded to move in my direction, arms wide
open. He embraced me, running his hands up around my youthful curves,
licking my neck and earlobes. Then his large, rough hands cupped my
small breasts and continued downwards to feel in between my legs. I
knew what I had to do to get this over and done with as quick as possible,
but I was dreading this moment from the second he greeted me at the
door last night.
I fell to my knees and gave into his demented perversions. Thankfully
it didn' t last long before he climaxed and I was allowed to get myself
dressed and ready to go out. i was nothing but money well spent in his
mind. This was another extremely wealthy man with a completely new
set of wants and needs asking a fourteen year old girl to affectionately
dote on sexual desires to a man in his mid forties. I really hated myself,
these men, and just about everything my life had boiled up to by this
point, but I knew from a young age that to survive in this harsh world I
would have to do many things I would not willingly choose to.
At the shops he decided he would choose the clothes he paid for, which
I might as well have been declared a teenage prostitute. Just like Ron he
also liked it that way. The more degrading he was to me only proved his
ownership of my body. He bought me tiny cocktail dresses, and skimpy
outfits, which I thought closely, resembled the lingerie he' d also bought
for me to wear for him. 1 noticed that day that he enjoyed parading me
around the shopping mall and out for lunch at hooters, even joking with
the waitress that he' d like to buy her uniform because lie thought it' d look
sexy on his new girlfriend.
We arrived at his two in one, Restaurant and Club, at around nine
o' clock in the evening. It was a revolving tower called  Hot Chocolates
in downtown Ft. Lauderdale. The food was delicious and for the first time
since being with Ron, I ordered a hefty meal with steak and mashed
potatoes with a scrumptious gravy smothered on top. Charlie ordered
strong cocktails for us both and before I knew it my head was spinning
and we were on the dance floor together. The music blared in my head
and the rhythm of my body took over, completely forgetting about even
dancing with Charlie and letting the music take ahold and work it' s
magic.
It didn' t do me any justice though as Charlie watched me imagining
what pleasures lay in store for him later on. Taking me home before the
club had even closed, he just couldn' t wait to indulge on exactly what he
was fantasizing from beforehand. Once back at his townhouse he led me
up the stairs into his bedroom and pushed me down in the middle of his
bed. The motions from the wavy mattress made me dizzy and feel even
drunker when he lay on top of me. Coming at me like a hungered beast
wanting to ravage his next meal, it was intimidating as he entered into me
with a forceful thrust, he moaned out in delectable heaves. l looked away
while he self indulged his own gratifying needs using my body as his
instrument in pleasure. I only grew stronger in my head letting the hatred
for men desires intensify.
13
14
1) Copyright Protected Material U Copyright Protoctcd Materiel
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRL004146 CONFIDENTIAL GIUITRL004147
The next two weeks I was expected to be at Charlie' s beckon call, never
aloud to leave his side, even making me sleep in his bed from the second
night onwards. I never even got the chance to call TJ again. It was too
much of a risk anyways. Thus pushing him further out of my memory,
too afraid, of the emotional repercussions.
Our typical routine was to wake up get showered and dressed and I
would put on my make- up while Charlie made his business calls for the
day. We would leave the house mid-afternoon and nm his errands do
some shopping, sometimes meeting his friends or business partners for
lunch, none of the men he introduced me to seemed offended at his
choice of adolescent eye candy. They' d just continue to chat away as if it
was normal to be in public with his arms draped over a girl young enough
to be his granddaughter, not too shy by giving me a flirty tap on my
bottom or even try to kiss me
My last night was no different from every other night. We went
shopping that day and out for lunch alone. Later we headed to a club his
friend just launched and it was his grand opening that night. The club was
called  Iguana Joe' s. We met up with his friend and said our hellos.
They both seemed so excited about the club and Charlie was full of
compliments all around. The club did have a line out the door which
looked a mile long coming in, luckily we didn' t have to use the front
door. Charlie returned from the bar with two giant long -island iced teas,
which were his favorite drink to start with and then we just sat for a while
watching people dancing. Occasionally conversing about passing
thoughts. We danced for a while having a few more drinks and after
about two hours, Charlie said he was ready to go home. What a daunting
time to look forward to, he always liked to have a brief sexual encounter
before drifting off to sleep with my naked body intertwined between his
arms and legs.
It was bad enough to have to entertain him at every given second of the
day but his grip on me was so stifling I felt so chocked I could hardly
breathe much less sleep. Eventually my over-worked mind would drift in -
and -out of a restless sleep, but constantly on edge. I thought many of
nights of escaping, but where would I go? Would one of Ron' s ever -so -
connected informants finds me and turns me into him to be disposed of
for good? I just prayed that I wouldn' t be another missing person to add
to the list of girls found in the local ditches. I knew that' s where I was
headed if I screwed this up for Ron again.
As if my guardian angel was there the whole time listening to my
secret prayers, my rescue came the next morning with an abrupt bursting
through the bedroom door at about six am. Charlie and I were still lying
in bed together and his grip on me was still tight. The men dressed in all
black military gear had large guns and helmets on. It was so frightening
at first. I couldn' t even comprehend what was happening so rapidly.)
thought Charlie could' ve been in some kind of trouble with a business
friend he had done wrong too, but then one of the men in black shouted
F. B. I this is a raid get down with your hands on you head, in too much
shock to move three of the men grabbed Charlie and threw him to the
floor and cuffed him. I sat up in bed with my sheets covering my naked
body and watched as they dragged Charlie from the room. Still
completely nude he wasn' t even aloud to get dressed. Another agent had
to come back in to the room to find him a pair of shorts. I could hear him
screaming at the top of his lungs all of the way outside He was screaming
and the last thing I heard him yell was  If you say anything you know
who will find you! I could hear more threats being yelled at me but I
couldn' t make out what it was that he was saying. I was in total confusion
and couldn' t believe what was happening. There were so many uniformed
agents I felt so small compared to all of them but they were all very kind
and helped me out of bed allowing me to remain covered up with the bed
sheets so I could get dressed. The first decency I had been showed in a
long time. It was an odd feeling to acknowledge. I knew the life 1 had
come accustomed to for the last six months was now over, and in so
many ways I was relieved but was also very nervous about what lay
ahead of me.
I excused myself to the bathroom to put some clothes on. Not having
anything half decent, like a normal pair ofjeans and a t -shirt. The best 1
could come up with was a metallic blue miniskirt and a tiny matching top
that fell just below my breasts, hardly clothing at all it was more like
scraps of cloth. Putting my hair up in a tight bun with the scrunchie that
held my five hundred dollar bills I was led out of Charlie' s townhouse for
the very last time. Starting my life over ... again, 1 wanted to leave behind
my every memory belonging to these horrid times. Only taking small
sack containing my underwear, makeup bag, and journal with me.
The agents led me down the staircase and my last vision' s of Charlie
was bent over the hood of a police vehicle still screaming and
handcuffed I slipped into the backseat of the car and was driven to
Broward County Police Station where the Federal Agents interviewed me
about my entire whereabouts for the last six months. I was so scared of
what Ron would do if I told the agents what really happened but at the
same token I knew he' d most likely kill me anyways for being such a
liability.
Over the next few hours I sat down and told the agents how Ron' s
business worked and what I part I had to play to him. I was able to ask
how they found out I was at Charlie' s house and they informed me that I
was being followed all the way from Ocala, Florida where Ron had me
stowed away for the last four months. TJ, my friend, called my parents
is
16
1 Copyright protected Material
CONFIDENIIAL
Copyright Protected Mawrlal
GIUFFRE004148 CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004149
after our first phone conversation and ever since then, the F. B. I were
tapping the phone lines and recording every conversation. Completely
unaware of T. J' s caring act of deceit, I was in such shock that they had
been tracking us for so long. I knew now, with or without my help, the
F. B. I had enough on Ron to put him away for a very long time, if they
could catch him, that is.
Having so many crooked people working for you can be an advantage
when you' re in trouble. Like having a pair of eyes in every city. Ron was
somehow able to find out about Charlie' s arrest and immediately deserted
the country to avoid legal punishment, not to mention the discretization
of his esteemed clientele that the feds were now on to. Ron had so many
countless charges put up against him, eventually when the F.B. I were
able to track him down they were able to have him arrested in Yugoslavia
and extradited back to Miami, he was finally held accountable for being a
pedophile, soliciting women for prostitution, and running many
illegitimate and illegal businesses. By the time the 17, 13. 1 caught him he
was in his mid -seventies when he died of old age serving his second year
prison for a lengthy sentence. Coincidentally I was told of his punishment
and death many years later by one of the same F. B. I agents that had
rescued me from Charlie' s arms.
I was taken out of the interrogation room after the interview was over
with and told to sit at one of the officer' s desk while I was waiting for
someone to pick me up. Uncertain of who that someone would be I
assumed it would be someone from the juvenile delinquents division to
take me back to some state operated lockdown facility. Not the nicest of
places to call home, but I had no choice in this matter.
Sitting back in the revolving chair I was twirling out of boredom and
listening to the roaming conversations within the office. I pondered in
fearful anticipation of the dreadful places that lay in store for me. Having
to of spent a lot of my adolescence in these kind of places for the sheer
factor that my mother said  I was out of control and unable to handle by
eleven years old. There was plenty ofjust reason for me to be so scared of
those places. What I knew lay in store for me were constant fights
between the rough girls being settled with violent raids then out came the
pepper spray and then the strip -searches and worst of all, no sunlight. It
didn' t matter if you were a quiet, shy girl that didn' t belong there, when
there was a fight, which was could be like a few times a week, every
person in the room was considered a threat and were treated like a violent
criminal. I hated those places and the memories they gave me. That' s
why I always ended up back on the streets. No child or even a juvenile
should have to be subjected to such unreasonable force and neglect. Some
of the girls were so used to being subdued to this kind of treatment their
whole life they ended up repeating the same attributes as the people who
initially hurt them in the first place.
One very sad girl I' ll never forget her, had a father who had been a
heroine junkie and decided to play Russian Roulette with some of his
addict friends and by fate or chance took the bullet straight through his
brain, killing him instantly. Her mother being a heroine addict herself
spiraled downwards after his death and gave her four year old child to her
ageing grandmother that eventually had to put my twelve year old friend
in this un -dire circumstance. I can only have he highest hopes for her
today but unfortunately for most girls that have been victimized by
society aren' t able to ever stop being a victim for the rest of their lives or
go on to make other people victims themselves. A sad and unfortunate
fate for so many innocent, and it happens so much more than anyone
would rather admit too instead ofjust trying to find a solution.
Chapter 3
Hours later I was still twirling myself in the same office chair when I
spun around to see my Father walking in my direction. I nearly fell off
my seat at the sight of him. Gripping the chairs handles 1 couldn' t
imagine what in the world I would say to the man I once used to call
Daddy but now hated for the abandonment and unforgiving wounds he
instilled inside of me. He contemplated putting his arms out to hold me
but instead anger and shame took over and he just shook his head. I never
saw my Dad cry until that day and I have to say it made me feel young
again and sad I had disappointed my parents again. The agents now
standing beside us led both of us together back into the interrogation
room to re -tale my journey to my father who they said I had no choice to
tell, or they would have to tell him for me, being I was an under -aged
minor and Ron violated the statutory rape law, among many others, when
he took me back to his apartment and kept me as his sex slave. My Dad
couldn' t believe what he was hearing and for his lack of better choice in
words asked me to stop talking, he was just happy to know I was alive.
Like everyone I' d known in life they would rather brush it under the
carpet and not deal with the pain rather than realizing sooner or later it all
comes out sometime in our life even if it transgresses into our future then
becomes what we are willing to accept out of partners, work, and people
in general. Simply saying in other ways than with words that our bad
decisions befall our tragedies later on in life.
The next discussion was led to where I would go to from here. Before
anyone could put his or her suggestion forward I leapt in with my two
bits and made it obviously clear to my Dad that if I was sent away to
17
18
Copyright Protecmd Material
CONFIDENTIAL
Copyright Protected Material
OIUFFRE004150 CONFIDENTIAL OIUIIRhO04151
I
another lockdown facility and if he betrayed my trust, again, he would
never see me again. I would disappear for good this time and for all he
would know I could be dead in no time on the streets. He looked at me
and for the first time in my life he saw the many years I had grown up in
the time I was gone and heard the seriousness in the tone of my voice
when I made my vow to him. He put his head in his hands and told me
the bad news, my Mom didn' t want me to come home and she was
making his life hell for even suggesting bringing me back into their lives.
I for some reason threatened her lifestyle and drove her crazy. I had been
surprised about a lot of things lately but not that one. The last time I saw
my Mom she ever so carefully lied to me and told me she was bringing
me to an eye -doctor for an infection. Instead we walked into this tall blue
building with people in uniforms holding clipboards and a few muscly
guards, she ushered me inside and hurried up to close the large auto lock
doors behind her leaving me there alone and imprisoned, which is what
led me to recently living on the streets. My life was hell as long as she
was in control of it, so when she didn' t want me back at home I was fine
with that too, but there had to be somewhere else I could go. My dad said
he had no choice but to put me back into the facility, but he made a
sincere promise that he would not take any longer than a week to try to
find a place for me to stay and to go to school. A week I could deal with,
but I was stili unsure if 1 could trust my father and hold him to his word,
but yet again, I had no choice. Being my legal guardian he could send me
anywhere he wanted and there would be nothing I could do, except for
keep running. I gave in, and before he left the officers to take me back to
the last facility I had run from, I gave him one last hug and reminded him
one- week and I' m gone. Nodding his head and squeezing his arms
tighter around me, I could only hope he meant it, but he didn' t Zook too
optimistic.
In the police car on the way back to the facility they had to handcuff me
in case 1 ran again, but I had no intentions to anyways. I was going to
give my dad the week before I began to search for the right opportunity to
jolt again. I was like a  ghost come back, said so many of my girlfriends
from the past and there was now a lot of new faces there too. At night
when we were all in bed and supposed to be sleeping, I would be
daydreaming of better days and imagine myself somewhere in a
comfortable bed, actually enjoying my life for a change. A week went by
in this facility spending most of my days locked up in what they called
The White Room, a bare room with concrete flooring, no toilet or even
a chair to sit on. The only comfort I had was the blue sweater that was
provided as part of the uniform, and my hair scrunchie fulled with my
stowed away cash that no one had found during my unpleasant strip -
searches. I would spend hours in the white room for objecting to their
conformity and unwilling to participate in their drilling regime. I didn' t
feel like I owed any explanation to these people even when they brought
a physiologist in to speak with me,  What was the point when I would be
gone any day now and as if any of these people even cared in the first
place, I was just another number in the system and they had a job to do.
There was one mega -bitch, female guard, named Evelyn and she used
to either really like you or really hate you and God -forbid you were one
of the unfortunates that she didn' t like, she' d make your entire stay their
an agonizing nightmare. Constantly picking on girls who were not strong
enough to cope with their predicament or past issues, she' d stand them up
and publicly humiliate them, and even when they begged her through
their sobs to let them sit down, she' d only torment them worse. Which
only made the strong girls want to antagonize the fragile one' s with more
malicious intent. Luckily when I had previously been there she didn' t
take much notice of me, but I stayed out of harms way with her, just
being quiet and observant.
Being back here seemed like an eternity while I held my end of the
bargain but unfortunately my Father didn' t. The first chance 1 saw to run
I took it. I was being sent to go get my blood and urine taken for drug and
disease analysis. My driver would be a volunteer from the community
and it was the perfect getaway for me. I was brought from the white
solitaire room and led into the bright sun, feeling like today would be
favorable in my escape. We got to the doctors office, my whereabouts
told me I had plenty of ways to run and I scouted out the best looking
route. My plan was to barge through the volunteer' s inexperienced grip
and wriggle my way out if needed, then hit the asphalt, running until my
legs couldn' t carry me any further. Playing it out in my mind felt
different to the anticipation that led up to actually doing it. The inner -
strength I had was the only thing going to help me in this circumstance.
We arrived in the parking lot and I hadn' t said a word to him the entire
drive, the small framed Spanish man tried to make pleasant conversation
but I couldn' t see him as anything but a challenge, so I kept quiet instead,
ignoring his humorous attempts to befriend me. The car pulled to a stop
and he came around the side to unlock my door, this was it, here we go
I told myself, and pushed past the volunteer. His anus grabbed out at me
but only caught me by my shirt, he didn' t even put up much of a snuggle,
like some of the other trained one' s I had gotten before, they would put
me into body locks of all sorts but he just tore at the collar of my shirt
letting me break free. I had done this many times before so I knew I
wasn' t gone yet, I had to first get out of these clothes. The cops would be
looking for someone of my description in the area with a blue shirt and
khaki pants, so my first stop was a busy shopping complex. I took the
money from my scrunchie and bought myself a pair ofjeans, a shirt, and
19
20
Copyright Protected Material
0 Copyright Protected Material
CONPIDLN' IJAL GIUFr2G004152 CONCIDGNrAL GIUI' I RLli004153
a sweater for disguise and my next stop was Dunkin Doughnuts' to get a
chocolate iced doughnut and a cup of coffee. I didn' t have doubts about
getting out of the facility but I wasn' t expecting it to be so easy this time.
My past excursions all began with an abrupt struggle sometimes ending
in a brutal state of affairs after being pepper sprayed and fastened into
some painful lock by forceful men four- times my size, then tossed into
solitary until I saw my next chance to desert. I got to know the guards
real well, as I spent a lot of my time being dragged down to the white
room by them. There was Jim, a large black man who could' ve doubled
for a  Miami Dolphin' s defensive linebacker. John was another big man
with a ponytail and a mustache, and he looked like someone who
definitely owned a Harley. The last guy Scott had a smaller build but
made up for it with his steroid injected muscles bulging out of his neck
and their was the added height from his curly fro. When they weren' t
restraining me and holding me captive in solitaire, they were actually
pretty nice guys, not afraid to have a laugh after some explosive incident
and I held no contempt towards them either, they were just doing their
jobs.
It was de' ja' vous all over again, free at last but where would I go now.
With Ron' s scouts on the lookout for me, and now the authorities being
notified I was a runaway again, I would have a lot of people searching for
me, so I knew I had to be careful where I went. My last stop before
leaving the shopping center was to use a payphone to call my parents, my
Dad answered completely surprised to hear me on the other end, I wanted
to sarcastically thank him for breaking his promise to me and I hope he is
happy now, he just lost his daughter for good. I stopped to listen to what
he was trying to say and he told me  I was getting you out in a few days,
I found you somebody to stay with, she' s a good person who has got
teenagers your age, I was just trying to convince your Mother to sign the
papers to get you out of there.
I was so outraged at her ability to put her own wants before the needs
of her own flesh and blood daughter. I told him to come pick me up and
bring me to the house so I could speak with her for the first time in over a
year, but if I felt threatened for one second I will be on my way quicker
than a blink of an eye and on my own for good. He wasn' t overjoyed at
my proposition, knowing what position this put him in as her husband but
as my father he decided to put me first for once and take me home to
confront my mother.
I arrived at my house for the first time in a long time and everything
looked different. My parents refurnished and renovated the house. l didn' t
even have a room anymore, my old belongings and bed were removed
and it was now the office. Of course my Mom didn' t meet me at the gate
or the front door like her long lost offspring reunited. No, instead she
waited for me to come find her outback smoking cigarettes and having a
beer. She stood up from her seat and squinted her eyes loathing in her
hatred she coldly slapped me hard in the face. The slap stung, but I
matched her look with a familiar stone -coldness that only she could
understand. Immediately we both started to cry and we washed away our
anguish and resentment through our tears and consolidated our feelings
for the first time since the chaos first affected our lives. She didn' t want
to know much of my whereabouts and she still had a lot of anger to get
over but she asked me to stay home at least. My little brother ran through
the back door and hugged me so tight, I started to cry again and was
saddened by how much time 1 had missed the time I had lost just hanging
out with my brothers and it took me even longer to realize how precious
time really is. We were never going to be the average Joes next door but
at least this was better than nothing. I loved being with my family again.
We had BBQ' s and bon -fires with each other and life began to slowly
piece back together. It was bizarre how normal it was when I first got
home. I turned fifteen that year and it was the exact cup of tea that 1 had
needed to boost me up and get me on the right track.
I decided to go school to acquire my general education diploma or G. E. D
and got a summer job with my Dad at Mar-A- Lago, Donald Trumps
exclusive country club in Palm Beach. Surrounded by lush acres of
tropical landscapes, manicured gardens, and a mansion made into a beach
club for the rich and famous it is known as the  Jewel of Palm Beach. I
was in sheer awe at the gold arched ceilings and the grandeur ballrooms.
The spa where I worked was world class, not only oozing in style but in
the way each and every clientele was treated with the upmost service. My
focus was now set on becoming a massage therapist, and working my
way into a luxurious spa like the one I worked for now, only I was a
locker -room attendant there. I studied many books about the anatomy of
the human body and how you can affect a person' s well- being and health
for the better through a simple healing touch. It was amazing to me the
way the body responded to massage. I was more than just interested. I
was determined to become a therapist.
It was one of those anatomy books that i had my nose buried in one
afternoon on a quiet Tuesday and it could get pretty lonely in the locker
room, so if I weren' t busy I' d sit outside by the spa' s reception and read
my books in the warmth of the Florida sun_ A lovely looking woman in
her late thirties who spoke with a proper English accent approached me. 1
assumed it was a general question,  like where' s the ladies room or was
that the famous model from so- and- so? but she was more interested in
the book 1 was reading. Only believing at first we were just making small
talk she was really intrigued at my choice of reading. She then asked if I
21
22
CI Copyright Protected Material J Copynsht Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE,004154 CONFIDENTIAL OIUF1 RE004155
I
did massage on the side, 1 stated I was only reading the book and had not
yet began to study but one day I would love to practice massage therapy.
She introduced herself as Ghislane Maxwell. I would later find out that
she was the daughter of the late prominent businessman and disgraced
newspaper tycoon, Robert Maxwell. I told her my name is Jenna pointing
to my nametag on my shirt and offered her a cold or hot beverage, as
those were my instructed duties at work. She accepted a tea and went on
to chat a bit about this rich guy that she worked for and she knew offhand
that he was looking for a massage therapist. Just doing me a good
deed out of her kindness of her heart, I' m sure, she offered to introduce
me to him. I declined her first proposition, thinking out loud, told her I
didn' t know the body well enough to even attempt an interview. She
didn' t seem worried at all by my fear of incompetence saying that if he
liked me enough he would get me the best training in the industry.
Ghislane thought I had a cheery persona and fit the quota for what he was
looking for and as she put it an enthusiastic learner that she said she
gathered from the sticky notes popping out of the various sections in my
book. I accepted her phone number and the house address and told her I
will call her if I am able to come over after work. I rushed over to the
tennis courts where my dad was working and told him of the news. We
both thought this could be a wonderful opportunity to get my
accreditation in massage therapy. Seeing that it was a lady in her late
thirties who came off as more of a nurturer rather than a procurer, neither
of us saw any reason to be hesitant.
Chapter 4
At around Five p. m. my dad drove me down to the bottom of El Brillo
Way. on the Palm Beach intercostal. We pulled into a short driveway
beckoning a large pink mansion with heavy wooden doors. I was so
excited about this chance and asked my dad to wish me luck. He gave me
a big squeeze and wished me the best. He walked Ire to the front door
and I rung the door chime. Moments later we were greeted by an older
gentleman dressed in a casual butler uniform. I told him I was here to
meet Ms. Maxwell for a massage trial and he opened the doors for my
father and I telling us to wait in the entry as Ms. Maxwell would be on
her way any second, and she was_ Down the stairs she walked with a
warm smile, her short black hair seeming very proper and elegant, for
now. She shook my fathers hand and thanked him for bringing me and
kissed us both on the cheeks_ They spoke briefly about whom she worked
for and about Mar- a- Lago where we worked. She was in hurry, you could
tell to end the conversation and say good-bye to my dad, which she did so
ever pleasantly. She said the boss was upstairs and waiting my arrival, so
with that I said bye to my dad and began to follow Ghislane up the stairs.
I was so nervous, but I didn' t show it. I kept my reserve and demeanor
cool as ice, trying show maturity for the open position. We continued on
to the massage room, passing by a grand crystal chandelier, and a couple
lengthy wooden hall tables displaying a multitude of photos displaying
young girls and beautiful women, trying not to gawk at them I didn' t
even notice that some of those girls were only wearing their smile.
Ghislane asked me how my day at work was and 1 told her it was easy
peasy as always just trying to make simple conversation. There was a
fork at the end of the staircase and she led me to the right hand side. The
lights were dimmed in the bedroom but I could still see the King Size bed
in the middle of room, we did a U- turn around the bed, which led us into
a massage room. Dripping in luxury I could' ve definitely compared it to
the renowned Mar- a- Lago' s spa' s, it had marble walls and a glass
enclosed shower and self -automated steam room at the very end of the
Burberry carpeted room. There was a large mirror over a basin to the
right of the room with an array of oils, ointments, soaps, and lotions and a
small closed door, which I assumed must be a closet. The only thing that
struck awkward about this room was the naked man laying face down
atop of the turquoise massage table in the center of it.  I had to be
prepared for this, I told myself. Massage was something 1 had never
done before so 1 quickly brushed away my thoughts of possible schemes,
wanting to believe whole -hearted this was going to be legit. Ghislane
introduced us to each other and I proceeded to make his acquaintance.
Looking up at from his downwards position, he looked me over and
gave a smile to Ghislane, an obvious notion of his approval. He was
Jeffrey Epstein as she pronounced for him, as if I supposed to recognize
his name or something. He affirmed,  It was his pleasure and replied to
just call him Jeffrey,  No need for formalities he answered, cleverly
putting me at ease. This man did not look like someone to beware of.
Both him and Ghislane appeared to be very nice people and conscious of
their health as their need for massages and spa visits, no alarm bells went
off, yet. I was prepped by Ghislane to  treat this as a lesson from her and
follow her exact lead, if I did good tonight then maybe I would become
Jeffrey' s Travelling Masseuse, seeing the world and getting paid well for
it. I was very hopeful, a job like this could really make my dreams come
true.
I followed suit and washed my hands with warm water so the coldness
would not shock Jeffery' s naked body, then lathered them in rich body
butter. Ghislane told me to always keep one hand on Jeffrey, even when
getting more lotion, so it didn' t make him lose concentration on being
relaxed. She gave me a tip and told me to keep a blob of lotion high up on
23
24
Copyright protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL
Copyright protected Material
GIUFFRE004156 CONFIDENTIAL GIUFI RL'004157
my forearm so it prevented me from having to keep going back for more
and was less disruptive to Jeffrey. This all seemed for real to begin with, I
was being educated about the body and splitting Jeffrey' s body with
Ghislane, mimicking her every motion. Starting with his feet, we began
with his heels and arches of his soles. Pushing the blood up his calves in
upward strokes to rejuvenate the body' s blood supply and being careful to
mind his leg hair didn' t pull. I was keeping up with her and enjoying the
education. It was so interesting how the body worked and I couldn' t
believe i was learning all of this for free. Once 1 got a bit of a groove
following Ghislane, they began asking me all sorts of questions about my
past and it didn' t take long before the conversation led down the darker
experiences of my young life. When they found out that I hadn' t led
much of a normal existence they only probed me with more questions,
which being put on the spot answered honestly. The funny thing was they
didn' t seem appalled at all by my statements, rather entertained if
anything. Jeffrey called me a  naughty -girl with that wry smile of his,
and half playful and half defensive, 1 answered  no I' m not, I' m really a
good girl, just always in the wrong places he then replied,  It' s O.K, I
like naughty girls and rolled over onto his front side to expose his
complete nude self. He wasn' t the first man to show me his penis, so I
wasn' t shocked at the appearance of his manhood but I was incredibly
shocked at his complete ease to present himself with an erection. I tried to
ignore it waiting to follow the next directions off of Ghislane, who
surprisingly now stood behind me bare breasted. Before I had a chance to
even think of replying hastily she began to slowly undress me, while
Jeffrey started to stroke his manhood white watching us. She unbuttoned
my blouse and removed my bra, revealing my bosoms. Cupping them in
her hands she moved her lips across my nipples, licking and teasing them
with her tongue making them cold and stiff. Next her hands moved down
to my little white skirt, removing the final piece of my remaining
uniform. She slid my skirt down my legs with ease, for a moment keeping
on my love -heart panties, so they could both take notice of my apparent
youth. They even snickered to each other about  How cute she still wears
little girl pantie' s Jeffrey said, and Ghislane joined in his laughter.
Acting as my madam, she instructed me to start by licking his nipples
and after I had sufficiently pleasured both of them, then prompted me to
go down on Jeffery orally while she rubbed her breasts along his body
tantalizingly. She moved behind me again this time to remove my panties
and start fondling the delicate folds between my legs. I was still in shock
from the initial degrading blow. I hadn' t even let the reality sink in, it was
all too much for me to emotionally handle so instead 1 hid behind my
fears, which I told myself  I wasn' t going to ever be worth anything at all
and this would probably be as good as it gets for me after all I thought,
what have I been trained up for until now. Nobody ever stopped to ask
if I was comfortable or if I wanted to stop, no, instead, Ghislane only
directed me to conclude the massage session by climbing up on the table
to be fixated on Jeffrey, straddling him so he could penetrate me.
When it was all done and over with, I was taken into the steam room
with just Jeffrey to get further aquatinted, as Ghislane left the room to go
get dressed. He asked me to grab his feet and nib them not saying a word
about what just happened, like it was all normal and accepted. I listened
to him ramble on about the health benefits of a sauna and the history of it,
ignoring the fact of the matter of his pretentiousness degrading my spirit.
I figured 1 had gone too far already, what would be the point in throwing
in the towel now after I had done exactly what these people wanted.
Whilst we were sweating out our bodies' toxins, and the steam was
blasting my burning face I listened to his lessons, entertaining his ego, I
let him become my teacher, he seemed to like that. He sounded like a
very clever and intelligent man though. Telling me his story of how he
made himself an empire of billions from being a middle- class professor to
an elite financial advisor for clientele with only billions in their bank
accounts and through his so- called `lessons, He became my mentor and
I emerged as his pupil, the teacher' s pet.
After the sauna we went to the next glass door beside us where the
shower was. He turned tap outwards and stood underneath the water as I
stood naked and cold from the temperature difference. Instead of asking
me to join him under the warm stream, like i thought he was going to, he
handed me a bar of soap and asked me to wash his body from top to toe.
It didn' t stop there I had to massage the shampoo and conditioner into his
scalp as well. I was bewildered someone would ask this off of someone
else, wasn' t it belittling enough having to endure the illicit massage from
beforehand but now this. The surprises kept coming that night, as this
was definitely not how I expected my interview to turn out, but that' s
what I had learned in my short time on this earth, life was full of
disappointment.
I let everyone else take the power of authority from myself and use me
in whatever way he or she wanted instead of standing up and giving
myself the respect I deserved, which in turn would' ve helped me get
through life without all of the abuse I ended up copping. Not given the
belief in myself from an early age on I suppose is what affected my sense
of control. Always letting the one' s with power and strength reduce my
inner -self to shreds until I was cut so tiny in size I would be completely
subdued to only their wants and needs left ignoring mine. The men I had
encountered in my short experience with them only repeated their
inflictions convincing me there was no running away from the sick world
I lived in, not yet understanding it all came down to the choices 1 had
25
26
Copyright Protected Maw rio1
CONFIDENnAL
Copyright Protected Material
GILIFFRE004158 CONFIDENTIAL G1UFFRL004 Lig
made for myself, I needed some encouragement and the right words to
unlock my very soul.
Jeffrey told me the towels were on the heated rack just outside the
shower and asked me to get one and pat him down. Again putting himself
first as I sat there freezing while I compliantly patted down his body with
the white fluffy towel until he was dried. I nearly expected him to ask me
to dress him as well, but not surprisingly that came later down the track
too. I dried myself off and wiped the make-up from under my eye' s,
keeping quiet not sure what to really say and half -embarrassed from the
entire evening' s events that just took place. I just remained silent whilst
we both got dressed until he brought me downstairs where Ghislane was
sitting at a desk holding his black leather duffel bag. When she moved
from the chair to let Jeffrey sit down, she passed him the bag and began
to tell me that I had great potential to be a massage therapist, they really
liked my style and who knows where this could lead too. She asked to see
me again tomorrow, same time after work. He opened the bag, revealing
stacks of brand-new hundred dollar bills separated with rubber bands to
count by the thousands. He grabbed one stack and took out two crisp
notes, placing them in my hand. He laughed that it was nearly my whole
week' s wage at Mar-A- Lago. Only there I didn' t have to degrade myself
as his new little toy.
When 1 got home my parents were anticipating my arrival. I kept it
simple and sweet with my folk' s, only telling them of the lessons about
the body I had received and the future prospects in massage therapy that
lie ahead. Nobody questioned who I was working for and complimented
my ability to be a hard worker. I quickly got out of that conversation
afraid I might give away a hint of shame in my eyes but no one caught
on. I excused myself to the bathroom to have a shower and stared into the
mirror for a moment, asking myself if I could really go through with this
only to mentally respond by reminding myself this would be as good as it
gets for a girl of my stature and limitations. I scrubbed myself rigidly in
the shower as if it would wash away the filthiness of the night, but it
didn' t help, I could still feel their hands in me and all over me and inside
of me. Trying to sleep that night was nearly impossible too, closing my
eyes only to drift away to flashbacks of the moments I had to give myself
to Jeffrey and Ghislane, each replay an exploitation of my vulnerability.
The next morning I awoke feeling anxious about the day ahead, trying to
push yesterday' s memory from my thoughts, I was quiet for the whole
trip to work with my Dad. Before we got out of his car in the parking lot
he asked me if everything was okay, I lied, for his sake and mine. My life
was being transformed and I didn' t even know it yet, but soon enough I
would be a brainwashed tool only used for the sexual pleasure of others.
About to be entrapped in the same life I had broken free from only
months ago.
Convincing myself in order to succeed I had to step up from being a
girly teenager and start thinking like a young woman, it would be my
ticket to a great career and a fortunate life. I told myself So what if I had
to bargain my body to this rich old geezer, some girls get themselves
through college by becoming a stripper and using their bodies to pay for
degrees, others go down even worse paths. I guess it was just another
way to fathom the road 1 was going down, the effectiveness of the lies I
forced myself to believe was working as I continued to tell myself I had
to make it any way I could rather than ever letting myself sleep on the
streets again. I was trading one shocking lifestyle for another, thinking I
was choosing the right one. If I could go back in time to ever meet myself
I would choose this time in my life. I' d start with a good hard smack to
my head to first shake some things up in there and next I would tell that
girl she could actually make it on her own if she jList worked hard at
earning an honest wage and built her life up slowly. There is no rush or
time limit to ever stop reaching for achievement. Sadly enough I probably
wouldn' t of even believed myself anyways, learning my life' s hard
lessons through the experiences I continued to suffer.
I went to work at Mar -A Lago that day trying hard not to think of what
lay ahead in the afternoon too come, but the later the hour got the more
distinguished the knots became in my stomach. I spoke to no one of the
details to my explicit interview but told one girl how I was so happy I
was now officially studying massage therapy, another lie. My friend was
surprised and intrigued that these people who could afford the best of the
best of therapists in the world chose an untrained fifteen -year- old girl to
perform a massage. She never said it in words, but her body language told
me she knew exactly why they wanted to use me and it wasn' t for a
therapeutic reason either and deep down inside I understood.
The rest of the afternoon slipped away quickly and before I knew it I
was standing before those large wooden doors again, giving a moments
pause but long enough to draw in my breath and exhale some of the
anxiety before ringing the doorbell. Juan answered the door again and
told me Ghislane would be down in a few moments and asked to follow
him into the kitchen. There was a pleasant looking young girl with blonde
spirals in her hair that glanced up from the mound of paperwork before
her. Her shocking blue eye' s and appealing English accent seemed
delightful and she introduced herself as  Emmy, Ghislane' s Personal
Assistant. I introduced myself as  Jenna which is what most people
knew me as and told her I was on an employment trial to become
Jeffrey' s massage therapist. She had a coy smile on her face that told me
she knew exactly what I was on trial for. Something in my gut told me
27
28
f I Copyright Protemd Matcdal Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004160 CONFIDENTIAL GIUrFRE004161
this wasn' t the first time a young girl had been trialed for the same
position I was about to fill.
We were only chatting for a moment before Ghislane appeared and told
me Jeffrey was ready for his massage. I was led through the extensively
large house to the winding staircase that would lead me up to the same
dreaded room where I would have to re-enact last night' s performance. I
wasn' t far from wrong. I gave Jeffrey a massage with Ghislane leading
the way again, this time we surprisingly made it to the front of his body
and she continued to show me how to massage all the way up to his
stomach pushing my hands in a spiraling clockwise circular motion to not
disrupt the bowels and then we came up to his chest. He couldn' t dare
contain himself for one second longer, telling me to put my lips on his
nipples and give them a kiss. Jeffrey moaned in pleasure and Ghislane
started to undress me from behind. Within moments I was completely
naked and Ghislane had her top off. She was caressing my body with her
hands while Jeffrey moved his hands down to stroke his loins while he
watched her and I kiss and touch each other. I didn' t know if she was
doing this for the sake of his eye -candy but she sure did act like she loved
having the control over me telling me what to do throughout the entire
threesome. Jeffrey' s climax was always the end to our sessions and this
time he wanted to have me make him orgasm orally. Afterwards we went
for the ritualistic steam -room, this time Ghislane joining in with us for
conversation. She asked me to massage her feet this time while we were
in the steam room, showing me that Jeffrey wasn' t the only one I had pay
my homage to. We all had a shower next and then we all went downstairs
to pay me and have Juan drop me offback home.
The following afternoon I received a call at work, surprisingly it was
Ghislane asking me to come over when I got off of work again. The
compliant side took over and 1 told her I looked forward to meeting with
them today, instead of telling her to go screw herself for lying to me and
making me degrade myself more each time I saw them. I finished work
for the day and my Dad brought me over to El Brillo Way again, where
the vultures were patiently waiting in their lair, he wished me well as 1
hopped out of his big truck, looking ever so much like his little girl again.
I gave him a smile and a wave as he drove down the long driveway,
waiting for him to suddenly turn back and not leave me alone to my task.
I shook myself out of that calamity and put on my  big girls face.
Juan brought me to the kitchen again as I waited for Ghislane. He
offered me a cold drink and some fruit on a platter, I accepted and was
grateful for the rejuvenation before I went to work again. It wasn' t long
before Ghislane approached me from behind with a cold intense look in
her eye. I jumped from my seat, feeling like maybe I shouldn' t have been
eating and drinking while on the job, as her demeanor seemed annoyed
and temperamental in the seconds that she appeared. She told me I would
be on my own today as she had business to attend to, so make sure 1
remembered what she had taught me, as my trial depended on it.
Chapter 5
I walked up the stairs by myself this time, taking in more of the decor,
noticing the more I looked around the more I noticed a different girl in
each photograph in his collection of half -nude and topless girls on display
around his mansion. I couldn' t believe how many girls there were, it' s not
like Jeffrey was much to look at. He was an aging man in his early fifties
with shiny grey hair and characteristic lines drawn down his face as if he
had seen harder days. With no prospects of ever settling down or having a
family of his own, Jeffrey treated us girls like apiece of clothing he could
try on for the day and get rid of the next. So why was there so many girls
in these photo' s? I wondered to myself if I would end up one of those
girls among his collection of forgotten relationships and broken promises.
I continued to make my way up the stairs, and as if all of my senses
were heightened from my bare nerves being exposed, l could smell the
cleaning detergents recently used by the housekeepers, my observations
of the shade of lighting through the concealed blinds as 1 entered Jeffrey' s
bedroom appeared golden, and the sound of stillness except for the thud
of my rapid beating heart all made me more aware of how nervous I was
to be on my own. Not that Ghislane was anything of a comfort, but I
didn' t know what to expect or how I was going to lead myself into
upholding my obligation in pleasing him. I would hope for the best I
thought, trying to uplift my confidence as I opened the door to the
massage room with the typical scene of Jeffrey laying naked facedown in
the massage bed waiting for his entertainment. It was de' ja' vous' all over
again. Repeating what Ghislane had taught me, with him commenting on
what else I should be doing, until it got to the end and I was expected to
grant him all of his spoken desires. We finished up with the shower again
and he seemed very pleased in my contribution of myself to him, giving
in to every request.
He told me to go ask Juan to pay me, as he was lethargic after the
massage and intimate affair between us and now was going to have sleep.
I walked back down stairs and told Juan that Jeffrey was asleep and said I
had to ask him for my pay. He went to Jeffrey' s desk and took out the
exact amount I was owed without even asking how much I normally get
paid. He then drove me home, only to be back the next afternoon.
29
30
Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL
Copyright Protected Material
GIUFFRE004162 CONFIDENTIAL GIUl:lUhO04163
The following week was a daily routine, providing Jeffrey with
massages and continuously being groomed to fulfill all his needs. Often
joined by Ms. Maxwell and her assistant Emmy for sexual trysts of all
kinds. I was mentally and physically exhausted from the week of working
and having to keep up with Jeffrey' s strenuous late night activities. I
couldn' t believe what I was doing but it was all starting to sink in fast.
Most nights when I got home, I' d briefly say  Hi to Mom and Dad
before heading straight to my bedroom. I couldn' t even sleep well
anymore. Closing my eyes at night I would fight the inevitable flood of
thoughts, replaying the moments of shame that ate away myself piece by
piece. My only reasoning being I just had to keep telling myself it would
all be worth it in the end.
This afternoon Ghislane appeared to be in a much better mood. Instead
of taking me straight up to Jeffrey she took me to a yellow guest room
where Emmy mostly stayed. It had a balcony where Emmy was already
outside reading a magazine and puffing on a cigarette. Ghislane lit one up
too and then offered me one. I hadn' t smoked cigarettes much before,
besides trying to look cool in front of one of my friends, but never really
took to them, so when I started to cough from the inhalation of smoke,
the girls began to laugh and joke about my in -experience. It was an
icebreaker for all of us to laugh and poke fun at me. I was then able to
give it back to them saying I would rather be an in -experienced nonsmoker
than an old lady with a raspy smokers cough. I don' t think
Ghislane was used to somebody giving it back to her, but she seemed to
like it, as long as she was able to have the last say. I knew my boundaries
and she liked that I wouldn' t cross those invisible lines. All three of us
chatted like friends and it started to feel like some kind of a strange
relationship was budding. After about fifteen minutes of chatting away,
Ghislane instructed me to wash my hands thoroughly, as Jeffrey hated the
smell of smokers, and to follow her down the hallway to the massage
room where he' ll be expecting me shortly. I did what she asked and
sprayed myself with the body spray that I always carried in my purse and
headed down the hall to Jeffrey' s room.
When I opened the door to the massage room surprisingly it was empty.
I sat down on the already made up massage table and was careful not to
mess up the neatly folded towels on the end of the bed. It was a good
fifteen more minutes before Jeffrey made his appearance. It was strange
seeing him in clothes for the first time. He wasn' t wearing what you' d
expect your typical billionaire' s attire to be. He was wearing a pair of
sweatpants and a Harvard sweatshirt, which he began to remove
immediately. This time he wanted to commence our session in the steam
room, so I began to undress as well. We went into the steam room and he
pushed a few buttons and the steam began to pour in from the marble
wall' s built in jets. There was a bench coming out of the wall also made
out of marble that went from either side of the room and had a step
underneath it where I was instructed to sit on so that I could begin giving
Jeffery his massage. Our conversation started off about simple things like
how was your day at work, and I asked Jeffrey how his day was lounging
around, just being polite to each other. He was acting out of character
being a lot more attentive and conversing with me about other things than
sex or massages for once. Starting with his heels, ankles, toes and arches
in the soles of his feet 1 massaged all the way up to his calves. It took a
lot more strength to massage in the steam room without oils or lotions
and the constant blowing of steam in your face making me twice as
exerted. I was beginning to really start to heat up when the door to the
room suddenly opened to reveal two naked women. Ghislane and Emmy
acted as if they came in to join us for a steam bath, but my instincts were
telling me otherwise. At least the cold burst of air and escaped steam
revived me a bit.
So there was Jeffrey and Ghislane sitting on top of this marble bench,
each with a young girl at their feet. Emmy and I continued with the
massage until they were ready to head into the shower. There were two
showerheads that Ghislane and Jeffrey both stood under while they were
being lathered with soap bubbles as we washed their bodies. After the
shower Ghislane led us into Jeffrey' s bed to finish today' s session with
Emmy, Ghislane and I performing lesbian acts of foreplay on each other
while Jeffrey laid back and watched. Stroking his manhood in much
delight, he brought himself to climax, and the session was over within
moments. We all got dressed and went downstairs to the kitchen for some
refreshments. Like nothing had happened at all, it was all so bizarre for
me, the whole ordeal with them since this all began. I couldn' t understand
why Ghislane and Jeffrey had such an openly intimate relationship but
yet never regarded themselves as partners. They rarely kissed and never
held hands or even slept in the same bed. It was more like a sexual
arrangement between the two of them. She brings in the girls for his
peculiar taste and he supplies the lavish lifestyle she was accustomed too
before her family lost all of their fortunes. I wasn' t sure how to act or
feel, always obliging to their needs but reserved enough not to get
attached, as if there was this invisible hierarchy and by instinct I knew
my place.
We all hung out in the kitchen for a while before I asked when Juan
could bring me home as I had work in the morning and was tired. They
said no problem and called Juan on the intercom right away, but said
we' d all have something to talk about tomorrow. I knew it had something
to do with my employment trial and from the way they were acting
tonight, I could only assume I got the job, but you never know with these
31
32
l I Copyright Protected Material
U Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GILTFFRE004164 CONFIDLN'rIAL GIUII' RL00416,
types of people. Their friendships and partnerships can change like the
weather.
I went home that night still confused on how I could let myself sink so
low, I had to put on an act like I enjoyed submitting my body and being
their new subservient plaything all for the fact that I was making
anywhere between $ 2004400 for just a couple of hours. Then spent the
rest of the night regressing on the entire event in my head over and over
again. I battled those thoughts with the hope that I was receiving a
profession out of this and making good money in the meantime. All I had
to do was keep lying to myself long enough until I eventually believed it.
Arriving at Jeffrey' s on time the next afternoon, as I always did,
understanding punctuality was a sign of respect and I wanted them to feel
as if they had my deepest appreciation for the once in a lifetime chance
they had given to a girl of my history. This time when Juan answered the
door he told me Mr. Epstein and Ms. Maxwell were waiting for me
upstairs in the massage room. 1 began my hike up the familiar spiraling
staircase and through to the room where my arrival was being deeply
anticipated. They were already in the steam room awaiting me to join
them. I undressed out of my uniform and folded them in a neat pile,
which I placed upon the marble basin. Having one last look in the mirror
before 1 exhaling a deep breath as if I was plunging into deep water, I
knew today was a big day. I either accepted their offer and trade my
morals for opportunity, or walk away with the prospect of one day many
years from now trying to make it on my own which I knew endowed
hardships of there own.
So confused about what decision to make, I just opened the door to the
steam room and let them do the talking. Used to the routine by now I sat
below Jeffrey and began to massage his feet and legs as I listened in on
their ongoing conversation about travel plans for the next few weeks.
Ghislane and Jeffrey turned their attention to me and he asked me how
would I like to go see the big city of Manhattan. I told them I had never
visited New York before and it sounded like an adventure but my job at
Mar-A- Lago was only a summer job and wouldn' t be able to get the time
off, especially that summer was so busy anyways.
Jeffrey then made his announcement, that I should just quit my job at
Mar-a- Lago and become his permanent travelling masseuse. He then
further persuaded me with all of the luxuries that came along with my
acceptance. Rather than being paid $9 dollars per hour at my current job 1
could be earning $ 200 dollars per massage, which he even said could be a
few times a day. Tomorrow we could be leaving Palm Beach together in
his private jet first heading to his residence in the tipper east side of
Manhattan, also the largest mansion in N.Y, and would next be setting off
to the Caribbean, where he owned a secluded island just past Little St.
James for a bit of relaxation. The temptation of his grandeur offer wasn' t
hard to give into, my vulnerability to be lewd into his grasp seemed
comforting at the time. The idea that females were nothing more than an
empty shell of beauty bound by only a body to offer was a notion I had
accepted a long time ago with my first teacher, Ron.
My reaction had to be more than amusing for their egos, even though I
was excited to be traveling I could only imagine the likeliness of having
to be at their beckon call as well. In my head I just told myself we all do
what we have to do in our lives to succeed no matter what it takes, and
with no one knowing the truth, I had no one to talk me out of it. I
accepted his offer and knew from here on out 1 would be his servant to
his sexual desires until one day I would gain my credentials and only then
could I go out on my own and make it in this world that when so young
seems so unconquerable. The night advanced into the usual grooming of
his requirements, for the next hour and a half being exploited to satisfy
Jeffrey' s every sexual whim.
My mom cornered me that night, before I had a chance to avoid
speaking to anyone, heading to the shower then my bedroom, like I had
been the last week. She knocked at my door with a hostile look in her
eyes,  Virginia, what exactly does an older couple want with a fifteen
year old girl, who has no credentials and with no experience in massage
therapy? She used that stern tone of voice that she' s always had, when I
was in trouble.
Thus, as impressionable as I was, my blue eyes batted their innocence
in her direction and I flashed her a girlish grin selling her the pitch that 1
had been given earlier that night. Not mentioning the other side to the
glamorous lifestyle I would soon be living in. I told her about the money
I' d be earning, the places I' d be seeing, the people I could meet and most
of all the trade I' d be learning. It all sounded so good, except it was a
bunch of lies 1 had to tell her and myself to otherwise convince its, that
this was a once in a lifetime opportunity, and I had to take it.
She asked when all of this would start, and I as shocking as it was to me
