got a Dodge Dakota in cherry red, and immediately had an impressive
sound system put in. She was my first pride and joy and taste of freedom.
I would love to drive her down to Lakeworth Beach to sit in my car and
watch the waves while I listened to my stereo blare music and puffed on a
jay. Letting the rest of the world pass by while I sat back and watched
them walk past wondering to myself what their story was about.
1 turned seventeen that summer and had accumulated a string of exotic
destinations that I had travelled in such a short time. 1 was given more
make-up and a pair of diamond earrings from Jeffrey. Ghislane only
wished me a happy day, wondering at times if she felt threatened by
Jeffrey' s and my closeness. We went to the island after we left N. Y.0 and
I asked If Sarah would be meeting us, mentioning it had been a while
since we had last seen her. He said he had some bad news about her.
Expecting the worse, thinking she had gotten hurt or something, I was
astounded when Jeffrey told me that she had been sent to his island with
one of his friends for a couple days and when the housekeepers were
cleaning her room and they found a stash of cocaine left out carelessly in
the bathroom.
He said he had no choice but to let her go. Addicts with no respect for
themselves or his wishes had no leeway in Jeffrey' s book. He didn' t mind
that I dabbled in drugs once in a while as long as I never brought them
along with us on any trips, except for my Xanax, which he didn' t mind
because it was pharmaceutical and most of all wouldn' t cause him trouble
being a legal narcotic. Sarah took it too far when she crossed international
borders with an illegal drug, risking her welfare and almost costing
Jeffrey public attention. She lost her apartment and contacts in the acting
world, only hearing from acquaintances once in a while that she was
sinking deeper and deeper into the black hole of addiction. It was sad to
find out, as I always did like her.
At the island, Ghislane had just recently obtained her helicopter pilot' s
license and wanted to get some practice airtime and flew Jeffrey and I to
St. John where we picked up Alexandria Cousteau, the grand daughter to
the inventor of the scuba tank and underwater explorer Jack Cousteau.
Ghislane was out to set us affright in the air, but it was all talk, she was
actually an impressive pilot. Still a daredevil though, she got her kicks
out of hearing us fret on the earmuffs intercom' s. Jeffrey made it clear
that Alexandria was a guest when I was told to adhere to her if she
wanted a massage, which I obliged her with several times during our first
meeting. It was Jeffrey who instigated that her and I reenact as lovers in
lesbian acts of foreplay and penetration. I couldn' t imagine a girl with
67
68
rl Copyright Protected Maw C1 Copy,, ght Protected Malarial
CONFIDI'.N'rIAL GlUFFRL004200
GILTI RL004201
CONFIDLNIIAL
such high prospects lowering herself to something of Jeffrey' s standards,
but I later found out through Jeffrey that he had donated money to her
continuous exploration into marine life and habitats. She had followed in
her family' s footsteps, all of them involved in Marine Biology in some
way or another. We actually got along really well, she was a real decent
girl, and loved talking about her passion, everything underneath the
waters surface.
When I wasn' t busy giving massages to everyone around, her and I
would hang out together. Often we go swimming in the crystal clear pool
of ocean that the Caribbean had to offer. Once we swam out so far not
paying attention to our location and were carried out to sea by the current.
We took turns on the backs of each other, taking breaks against the strong
ocean tide. It was almost a possibility that we nearly drowned out there, if
it weren' t for some guys on a boat out fishing for the day when they
caught us in their view. They picked us up and brought us back to the
island where we were reprimanded by a worried Jeffrey and Ghislane to
first of all let someone know where we are going at all times, and never
to lose sight of the shore while out for a swim. After that learning
experience I took their heed and proceeded with caution. I had a
newfound respect for the ocean and it' s mysteries.
Having such a lover of the water as a guest, made Jeffrey want to
explore parts of his Caribbean he had never seen before. The next
morning we were met by a scuba instructor in St. James and given a few
lessons in how to use the gear and more tips like how to descend slowly
to the ocean floor as not to cause blood clots as well as visual hand
signals to communicate underwater. It was so exhilarating beneath the
waters surface. No voices to listen too, only the enchanting sights to take
in. We explored the surrounding reef and found a large squid, many of
sea urchins, and the magnificent colored coral that housed a many of the
rich variety of the local species of fish. It was such a great sight to take
in. Holding a pernianent mental picture of those adventures to carry in my
head for all times.
We all had such a great time that Jeffrey hired the same scuba
instructor to come out the next day to scuba dive the safer parts around
his island. We got bored quickly with not much to see but seaweed and a
fish here and there. It didn' t take long before Ghislane decided for us all
to explore other numerous locations by boat, Jeffrey needed a bit of
convincing at first and the instructor was quick to assure him that he
knew his way well around these waters, of course he would say that, he
was getting paid a hell of a lot to do this in the first place, why not extend
it a few more hours?
The clear water glistened and the tropical array of marine life was on
display as we wanted to stop at so many places but you could see as
beautiful as it was it could be as equally dangerous. It took so long as we
had to veer away from so many desirable spots. Finally we found a good
place that the scuba instructor thought was safe. He buddied us up into
pairs and we jumped off the back of the boat into the crystal aqua blue
waters beginning our descent slowly into the darker regions of the oceans
floor. We were situated on open water with a cavern of reefs to venture in
and around down below. It seemed to be quite a choice to scuba in, one
that our guide said he wasn' t familiar with but to alleviate his bored
clientele deemed safe to swim around.
It was Jeffrey and the Guide together, Ghislane and Emmy, and I was
paired up with Alexandria. Miles, the houseman, came with us and stayed
on the boat just in case something went wrong and lucky he did_ We were
all too far under the water to hear his alarming screams of distress when
shadow' s lurking in the murky distance started appearing closer and
closer. Ghislane actually looked frightened for once as she gave us the
signal to start ascending upwards, reminding us by holding her ears not to
go up to quick or as we were previously warned before we could pop a
blood vessel in our brain and hemorrhage to death, not a very lovely
image but neither was getting torn apart by sharks.Those giant shadows
became clearer and soon enough we could recognize their indistinct
species as the terrifying and more aggressive breed of sharks, the
hammerhead. Grabbing Miles hand I was the last one ahead of the Guide
to get on the boat imaging the worst as I waited behind Emmy and
Alexandria who were the next to follow after Jeffrey and Ghislane I was
in too much shock to scream or cry, I just told myself I had to stay calm
to get out of this alive. Unlucky for us we found out later on that we were
in their breeding territory and being sent a clear message that we were
soon to be on the menu to their feeding frenzy.
We all felt like we had cheated death and 1 know it wasn' t only my
heart that was still beating out of my chest when we headed back to
Jeffrey' s island. Jeffrey was pale as his designer sheets and looked like he
had aged another ten years in such a scared state. Ghislane took the heat
off herself even barely taking a notice of beforehand and decided to poke
fun at all of us frantically scurrying to get out of the water, it was just her
nature, as I had never seen her move so quickly either. We got back to the
island and all collapsed our fatigued bodies in our own beds for a long
nap. Freshened up and much more relaxed we regaled our horrendous
story again over dinner, this time in laughter. The following afternoon
Ghislane piloted us all in the helicopter to St. John' s Ail -port and we said
good- bye to Alexandra where we all parted ways. I met her a few more
separate times in Palm Beach at Jeffrey' s Mansion, but she wasn' t a
regular of his, probably not as easy as the troubled girls were to bribe.
69
70
F! Copyright ]',, rooted Mat - al L7 Copyright P,, t- tcd Material
CONFIDEN I IAL GIUPPRE004202 CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRL004203
Chapter 11
Throughout the remainder of the quickly passing year I was on a
constant move with Jeffrey. Attending various dinner parties, mostly with
other esteemed billionaires and widely acclaimed scientists. Jeffrey likes
to surround himself with the most brilliant and powerful of minds, filling
his little black book with some of the most esteemed and even infamous
people in today' s wealthy society. It was during those intellectual
gatherings that my body was also put on the banquet menu but this time
for a powerful senator George Mitchell and another prominent Nobel -
Prize winning scientist who' s name would be mentioned but for all the
life of me can no longer remember. They would be only some of the
recognizable figures of the high society that became added to my list of
clientele, of course being introduced to for a lot more than just a client of
massage.
As an amusement to Jeffrey' s associates I also knew my place was to
entertain but not to every desired content. I was to show them a good time
but not the way I would have to use technique and effort for Jeffrey. The
very teachings from Jeffrey himself, or my tutor, as he liked to so
eloquently put it. Consistently being used and adored for the likeliness of
my youthful looks I was becoming very accustomed to my lifestyle with
Jeffrey, never really relaxing into it, but just accepting this as being as
good as it will ever get for me. I didn' t think I should be complaining,
wasn' t 1 being offered a life in exchange for servitude? Just letting the
signs of my anxiety and depression pass me by while I blanketed them
with my pills, suffocating under a blanket of pain is all I was really doing.
I spent Christmas and the New Years holidays with Jeffrey in N.Y.C,
who doesn' t celebrate the occasion, as he is of Jewish descent. Not that
he was a religious man anyways, I never even saw him celebrate
Hanukah either. We firstly stayed at his ranch in Santa Fe for a week,
then left for a long plane trip to Paris, France where we all suffered jet lag
for the next twenty four hours. We all stayed in a grand hotel with a view
the Champs' Elyse.
Emmy and I shared a room and with her gifted ability to make new
contacts in just a few hours, she brought out a jay to share on the rooftop
at nighttime while we were overlooking the lit up Eiffel Tower. We never
got really close as buddies but we both knew what we were indebted to
and felt each other' s sorrows. All four of us went out shopping at Chanel,
D& G, Ralph Lauren, and many other little exclusive boutiques the
following afternoon. As a gift Jeffrey bought me a white terry clothed
goose feathered sofa and had it sent back to my apartment in Florida, and
bought some new tapestries to have sent back to Santa Fe for his ranch.
We also visited his up and coming Paris apartment. It was a modern,
typical flat being refurbished, and we went to see how it was all looking.
Jeffrey liked to fuss about every detail and harass the builder' s about their
work, changing last minute details at a whim.
Days and many croissants later we left for Spain feeling bloated and
sleepy. We only stayed in Spain for the afternoon, going to see another
astounding Moroccan castle for Jeffrey to replicate at one of his many
mansions. It was only a short plane ride to Tangier, Africa for more
castles hopping. We arrived at the historic landmark and the only five star
hotel in Tangier called El Minzah in the village of Ville Nouvelle. The
city and outskirts were still very hostile at the time, females being warned
to not walk the streets alone and not to leave the house after dark or be at
risk of being raped or worse.
When we got to the room, it was oozing with every expected bit of
extravagance that a luxurious historical palace should offer until 1 was
greeted with a pile of monkey poo in the very middle of my bed. Not a
happy camper 1 called Jeffrey, Ghislane and Emmy into my adjoining
room and they all had quite a good laugh at my expense. Within a
moments notice of a complaint call to the front desk and we had an
attendant cleaning up my bed linen. The cleaner noticed the window was
still opened, he warned not to leave it ajar at nighttime just in case
another monkey wanted to make himself comfortable in my quarters.
Ghislane joked that maybe I should keep it open I might find a suitable
husband before I get any older. Always the instigator of a good joke but
unable to take one herself she didn' t like when 1 poked back that it was
more in her recent taste of men, since she loved to brag about her
rendezvous with her various lovers. Once she came back giddy as a
schoolgirl with an explosion of news, with all the build up and excitement
in her voice you' d think she was the next crown princess, but she had
given George Clooney a blowjob in the bathroom at some random event,
she never let that one down.
We all went to explore the towns surrounding Moroccan castles and
meet their royalty that lived in them. Jeffrey' s personal interior designer' s
met us at the residences. They walked around hurriedly, scribbling notes
into their clipboards and whispering between themselves. The palaces
were historically unique and beautiful but I wondered how could they live
so grandeur behind these walls when they lived in a city of such poverty
stricken squabble. Beggars lined the streets, people could just go missing
and no one could care less, and you heard of barbaric murders happening
every night. Against the advice of the Palace Attendant and Jeffrey' s
wishes, I decided to take a stroll one afternoon, mainly just to take photos
of exotic Africa and do some shopping in the village markets but 1 ended
up being intrigued by a group of young children playing in the streets.
71
72
I I Copyright Protected Material Copyright Protootod Matcrial
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004204 CONFIDENTIAL GIUITRE004205
When I was noticed watching them, about fifteen of them came up to me
and began to beg for money and food. I was over taken by the poor,
hungry children and I felt sad for them all and wished I could help out
somehow. When the tide of kids washed away and the street went empty,
I was overcome with intrigue at these two little boys. Brothers I found out
later on, and there only toy was an empty can they were kicking to each
other in the middle of the street. Intelligent kids, they were able to speak
three different languages, including English and I was interested to ask
them about life here. They didn' t seem to notice or be bothered by their
poverty stricken lives. They told me about their school and parents and I
thought I had just heard the saddest story ever but they were accustomed
to living like that like I had been so accustomed to my degrading lifestyle
for so long.
I was compelled to empty out the contents of my purse, giving them
over two thousand dollars in U. S currency. A passer- byer snapped a
photo of the kids and me for myself to take home as a personal souvenir
before they rushed home to proudly show there parents the money. I told
Jeffrey later on of my good deed and he couldn' t believe I' d give away
my money so carelessly. He told me I had set up their parents with
enough money to feed and shelter their family for a year. Wasn' t that a
good thing? I couldn' t believe it, not that I was well off or anything close
too it, but to realize how lucky I was and to not have compassion for the
lesser off, especially children of a third- world country, I wouldn' t be
human anymore. Then again what did I expect from someone who could
numerously steal another man' s daughter for the use of his own sexual
pleasure with great ease.
We went out to lunch the following day with Jeffrey' s team of
designers to wrap things up and after Jeffrey' s afternoon massage he went
to the palace to have a nap. When I was all alone I thought I' d go see the
culture of the local unique markets again and this time buy some trinkets
to bring home. I got to sightseeing and took pictures of the legs of lamb
hung over the blood drenched doorway over people' s homes as to warn
off evil spirits and the ghettos where the local villager' s called home. I
walked into many of the market' s stalls and saw the most peculiar
antiques, such as weaponry with the blood of it' s last victim stained on
it' s sharp blades and body pieces of various animal' s for the use of
religious sacrifices. I was more interested in the different culture and
respecting their ancient way of life with interest, instead of squirming like
a tourist and getting grossed out. I thought it was so educational and
enthralling in fact, I ended up buying a few sacrificial trinkets to have
sent to my apartment in Palm Beach. Not to say that I wasn' t looking
forward to getting back to the luxuries of western civilization it was a bit
like camping, fin and adventurous but as equally dangerous and thrilling.
When we left for the final destination of our trip I was looking forward to
eating normal food again, not one to stray for foreign dishes, I' m a more
of a cheeseburger and pizza kind of girl, a true sign of my American
heritage.
We landed at the Heathrow Int' I Airport and greeted by a driver that
would take us to Ghislane' s town house in London' s central that Jeffrey
had recently bought and refurbished as a gift for her. Emmy said  Good -
Bye at the airport, leaving us to go to her hometown in the rural
countryside nearby to visit family for a six- week holiday from work. It
wasn' t a very long drive before we were in the heart of the city and at
Ghislane' s place. 1 thought it was a cheery townhouse that had character
and the historical pub in front of it and cobblestone streets only added a
unique charm to its presence. They were going out for dinner and invited
me along with them but seeing I was so exhausted from all the travelling
and looking a bit melancholy, I apologetically declined going Out for
dinner that evening, I rather would be taking a few pills to catch up on
some needed sleep.  Are you sure your Okay? Ghislane asked as she
showed me to my room, more considerate than she normally was but 1
assured her that I was in absolute good health, just tired from all of the
recent jet lag. Without another word said she whisked off downstairs, to
the car where Jeffrey was waiting for her.
I took the liberty to call my parents house to say  Hello and catch up
with them since I hadn' t been home at all for the holiday season this year,
always too busy working. They sounded really happy to hear from me
and my mom put me on the phone to talk to my brothers as well. I got to
tell them about my travels abroad and I had some cool tribal stuff from
Africa that I bought for them. They sounded so proud of me, all of them,
and why shouldn' t they be? In everyone' s convinced mind I was making
great money, travelling the world, and meeting new faces everywhere l
went, why should I spoil anyone' s delusions, especially mine. I took my
sleeping tablets and had a bath before falling into a deep and much
needed sleep.
The next morning I was woken up by Ghislane who I could tell was in a
chirpy mood by the way she paraded through my closed door saying
Wake-up sleepy head and opened the window' s shutters to let in the
bright sunlight, she had never done anything like this before and I knew
immediately something big was happening. She sat down on my bed as I
rolled over from my deep slumber and I was able to mutter for an
explanation as to why she was awake so early.  Besides the fact it is ten
o' clock in the morning and nearly time for brunch, we have a big day
planned out for you today. She was waiting for my cue to ask her  What
are we doing, when I did, she responded with a convincing enthusiasm
We' re going shopping for a new ensemble she paused for a moment to
73
74
7 Copyright Protected Material 0 Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004206 CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRL'004207
build the suspense, before completing her sentence  To go dancing with
a Prince of England this evening. Hoping it would be one of the younger
generations, i was disappointed when she told me he was the Duke of
York, Charles' s younger brother Andrew. I looked at her with a fake
surprised look, one I had to use on many occasions in my time with them,
to give an impression of excitement.  What... wow! I exclaimed with my
gifted acting ability. It is a sad realization but I had grown more
accustomed to seeing people for their significance rather than the good
qualities they possessed, and was able to grin & bear the thought of what
I expected lay in store for me.
Ghislane and I left shortly thereafter for the many lanes of designer
shops to choose from in London. Her pep talks to prepare me for my
duties towards royalty went on and on, giving me the obscure impression
I was something of importance, at least for more than an evening.  Make
sure your bubbly and energetic, nobody want' s a dead horse was one of
the cheap tools she instilled me with.  Who knows where this could lead
for you was another. As the day grew shorter my anxiety only
heightened, anticipating the Prince' s arrival and unable to decide on an
outfit, 1 picked out three. Our last stop for the day was Burberry' s for a
nice handbag to compliment our chosen attire. We got back to her
townhouse with still a couple hours spare to get ready. After trying on all
three outfits and many mental debates with myself later, I decided on the
pink mini -tee and dazzling pair of denims with horses embroidered into a
pattern. It seemed a lot more my style and age group rather than the other
two older looking sophisticated dresses I had picked out. I told myself I
was going dancing at a club not to an opera. As most young girls can be
during their body changes into womanhood, I felt awkward, you know,
big feet, freckles and body hair in unwanted places. They' re things you
just don' t want when your seventeen and then you see these iconic
billboards of what femininity is supposed to represent and just don' t fit
into that picture, never feeling what we all are already... absolutely
perfect. By the time I had got ready I was a nervous wreck, but trying to
keep my cool on the outside was an act. I thought it' d be a good idea to
take a few Xanax before the evening unraveled and my anxiety went
through the roof.
Jeffrey and I were sitting in the lounge room downstairs, waiting for
Ghislane to finish getting ready. The room was silent, only stillness in the
air. I stared at the mural painted onto the wall that I was facing. It was an
interesting piece of artwork. In great detail it illustrated a happy looking
family sitting on a bench overlooking a pond that resided on a large piece
of land with a beautiful home displayed. There were also hunting hounds
and the hunters chasing a game of fox like the notorious  English Hunt
Pieces throughout history. Jeffrey took notice of my enchantment into
the picture and in a hushed voice proceeded to tell me that it was a
portrait of Ghislane' s childhood, the part she could be proud of. I never
realized how prominent her family' s history was in England, apparently
as to Jeffrey' s attest, her Father was born of poor Jewish decent in
Czechoslovakia, most of his family being killed upon Nazi invasion in
1939. Fleeing to join the British Army as a young man, he changed his
name a few times and made a lot of contacts in the field. After the war, a
newfound Robert Maxwell went into publishing using his army contacts
to establish a business initially built upon publishing scientific books
from occupied Germany. In time, Maxwell acquired several British
newspapers, among them the Daily Mirror, countering his wits against
the likes of Rupert Murdoch along the way. However, whilst constricting
his publishing empire, Maxwell compiled astronomical debts, and his
equivocal financial dealings attracted the attention of governing
authorities that judged him not to be looking out for his companies best
interest and in the end it transpired that Robert Maxwell had been using
proceeds from his employees pension funds to meet his financial debts,
ruining the futures of thousands of employees. Once an esteemed
Member of Parliament and publishing mogul, Robert' s body was found
floating in the Atlantic Ocean after he was found to be missing from his
yacht, the Lady Ghislane ( named after his favorite child), whilst cruising
the Canary Islands in 1991. Jeffrey went on to tell me that when her
Father died she was inconsolable, and in a very bad state. He picked her
up from the trenches of despair and took her under his wing, and it' s there
she has stayed comfortable ever since. To Ghislane his peculiar need to
have so many woman around and even his taste in younger than legal
one' s didn' t seem unconventional to her. It was her own Father who was
deemed a womanizer and even took a second wife whilst still married to
Ghislane' s mother. I would have never guessed this carefree, spirited, and
vivacious woman had ever endured such sorrows. I couldn' t help but look
at her in a different light from then on, but not letting her know that I
knew, to avoid any altercations between us.
Like clockwork Ghislane came downstairs five minutes before Prince
Andrew were to arrive, wearing a tight -fitted white wooly turtleneck
singlet and a nice pair of loose fitting trousers. Looking elegant and
casual at the same time, a very hard look to achieve but one Ghislane had
always easily mastered. They both seemed at ease poking fin at my
obvious nervous state, just another ordinary night out for this
extraordinary couple. The knock came at the door just after six o' clock in
the evening. Ghislane greeted him and the guard who would wait for his
return in the car. She led him down the hall to where Jeffrey and 1 were
sitting. We both stood up and Jeffrey shook his hand, while Ghislane
proceeded to introduce me and as I was taught by her was English
75
76
Copyright Protected Material
Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004208 CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004209
custom, we both kissed on the check. We all sat down on the lounges for
some tea and biscuits while conversing idle chitchat. By the sounds of it,
Ghislane knew well of his recently divorced x -wife Fergie, whom they
were all taking turns in slandering her for one reason or another. It was
apparent there were some fresh wounds still lingering on and as good
friends do, it was their way of helping him get over her. When his
daughters were mentioned, Ghislane and Jeffrey treaded lightly, only
speaking highly of them, and offering their sympathy to the young ones.
The conversation turned to a much lighter subject. Andrew wanted to
know more about this young guest they had to join them out for dinner
and dancing that evening and then the spotlight turned on me. I was more
nervous than I had ever been before a night out with someone, probably
the build-up Ghislane and Jeffrey had hyped this meeting up to be. To
break the ice, she played her favorite guessing game. -. how old do you
think Jenna is? When Andrew guessed correctly, I was seventeen years
old, she was surprised, thinking I could have passed for younger.  I guess
we are going to have to trade you in soon she laughed, always the first
one to throw in her quick-witted two bits, all of them chuckling along
with her. Hardly a laugh at all, unknown to me at the time his eldest
daughter is only five years my junior. I was finding it hard to make much
conversation in the beginning, just laughing when the occasion called for
it, and keeping up with Andrew' s constant glances in my direction, was
all I could manage.
The restaurant was a close drive for us with Andrew, his two guards and
his driver following behind us. I was seated next to the Prince for dinner
and Ghislane and Jeffrey next to each other, an evening pre -ordained. I
was supposed to flatter him with compliments and dote on his every word
spoken, but I didn' t even do that for Jeffrey blatantly, it would' ve felt
awkward to act like a bimbo for him. Instead I remained calm, cool, and
collected, hoping that my nervousness wouldn' t spill out at any given
moment. The next place we were going was much more my style, and I
found it easier to relax. We pulled up next to a Nightclub called  Tramp,
a member' s only nightclub, and one of the most exclusive haunts in the
world for the rich and famous to be seen for the last forty or so years
since it' s doors first opened. Andrew' s guards waited outside while we all
went in to hit the dance floor. Jeffrey being the social introvert that he
was found the first available empty seat in the corner but facing the dance
floor to spend the evening watching everyone else have fun and Andrew
went to the bar to grab us all drinks. He came back with sparkling water
for Jeffrey and a cocktail for the rest of us, already knowing that Jeffrey
never drank alcohol. We downed our glasses and made our way to the
crowded dance floor, where I had the Prince' s upmost attention. Moving
his hands across the curves of my body, not to shy away from the fact
that he was in public, he was whispering sweet nothings into my ear and
kissing my neck. I would just giggle not really knowing how to reply to
an aging man with a bad smile and terrible moves, it would sound too
much of a lie if I retaliated back about his swagger. He was the most
incredibly hideous dancer I had ever seen and couldn' t help but laughing
on the dance floor and shooting glances of embarrassment to Jeffrey and
Ghislane who were having a good time laughing at my expense... as the
always did.
After an hour of pelvic smashing to the D. J' s pumping mixes we finally
exited the floor, his royal highness was dripping with sweat and ready to
embark onto a quieter scene where he said we could be alone, not
knowing that it had already been arranged for all of us to meet back at
Ghislane' s place but complied with his so called thoughtful request. l was
so anxious about getting back to the townhouse, knowing what
expectations I would have to not only have meet but also exceed in this
case. Ghislane and Jeffrey seemed impressed at my attempts to entertain
his royal highness, so far giving him exactly what he wanted the
impression that I idolized him. They told me that he really liked me and
was having a great time, so far tonight. When we got to the townhouse,
his guards walked him to the door, staying to wait outside in the car.
Ghislane met him and brought him upstairs where Jeffrey and I were in
the study. We all chatted in the hall for a few minutes and I was able to
have Jeffrey snap a photo of us together, one that would cause much
controversy for the Buckingham Palace in many years to come. The
conversation didn' t linger on much longer before Jeffrey and Ghislane
dispersed downstairs together, leaving me to my own sort of royal duties_
They walked away giddy as if they were teenagers imposing on young
lovers about to embark on a romantic evening.
Next to the study was the bathroom where l led him to next. The room
was dimly lit masking the light from showing the disparity in my eyes. It
was a beige marble tiled floor with porcelain Victorian style bathtub in
the middle of the room and nowhere near the size of Jeffrey' s residences.
I turned on the taps for the tub and the heat from the water began to steam
up the small room. On the basin were aromatic oils, lotions and soaps,
loving the scent of floral notes, I poured in the lavender bath oil. Trying
to do the best of my youthfulness to try and act seductive, I gradually
began to strip off my clothing, piece by piece. Giving him time to savor
the moment to come. He loved every second of it as I went over to where
he was waiting and watching, then began to undress him at a much
quicker pace. We kissed and touched each other before submersing into
the hot water, where we both continued to reenact foreplay. He was
adorning my young body, particularly my feet, caressing my toes and
licking my arches. That was definitely a first for me and I couldn' t help
77
78
I ,
Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDLN nAL
Copyright Protected Material
GIUFFRE004210 CONFIDENTIAL G1UI FRE004211
but laugh, I hoped he didn' t expect the same treatment back. Through my
recent experiences with Rena, I drew a line with extreme fetishes,
especially ones that would involve my tongue and feet in the same
sentence. It wasn' t hard to get him wound up to the point where he just
wanted to have the rest of me so we dried off from the cold and retired to
my bedchambers for the longest ten minutes of my life. Moments later
and without any real emotional attachment, he burst in ecstasy, leaving
me to my own feelings of dismay. As relieved as I was to see the
experience come to pass with him, it was finally sinking in that I would
never be anything more than but a muse. Still trying to ascertain a surreal
dream a young girl once held but no longer the same girl I was no longer
sure that the dream was even real anymore. In the whirlwind thrown
together by wealth, power, and privilege I was but a grain of sand and felt
helpless down the road I was naively being led down. When the real
picture was unveiled, later in my life, I had nothing but memories filled
with sorrow to remember of my teenage years.
Jeffrey, Ghislane, and I left for the states to conclude our long journey
home to the U. S. A. I was so happy when we landed on our soil and called
T.J from my cell phone to see if he' d meet me at the airport instead of
going back to Jeffrey' s, he' d be there within twenty minutes, he was so
happy to hear my voice and that I was back in town. So ecstatic to be
getting away from my life of servitude for the next few days, I was sourly
disappointed when I got off the phone. As if he' d been listening to my
entire conversation, Jeffrey told me he' d like a massage back at his place
and he could pay me at the same time for my trip with him. With much
dismay I had to call T.J back and cancel the arrangements, I wouldn' t see
him until later that night, in which one of Jeffrey' s staff would drive me
home and 1 would be too exhausted to do anything.
Chapter 12
When we got back to Jeffrey' s mansion in Palm Beach he wanted to
thank me for showing his friend, the Prince, such a good time. Rewarding
my diligence with an extra sum of money and luring me deeper into his
goal of keeping me at his side as his personal amusement that he could
lend out at anytime. Further proving his capability of using the vulnerable
impressions of a young girl to influence and intimidate his fellow peers of
like minds. Jeffrey didn' t want to know the grim details of how it all
happened on my intimate night with the Prince, he just asked simply if I
thought that I did well in keeping his friend happy. Knowing already that
the evaluation of my performance I gave was already discussed between
them, I just as simply replied back with a nod of approval. Though I did
have a laugh with Jeffrey about the Prince' s weird fixation on my feet
and lets just say that he was quite tickled with Andrew' s quirky
obsession, having a good ol' chuckle at my eccentric encounter. I was
paid extremely well this time, putting my money earned into nothing but
popping pills and alcohol by shouting my so called friends a good time,
aiming for the attempt to forget about my experiences abroad. I partied
like that to feel young again, my age and most of all to self -anesthetize
my troubles from within. It wasn' t like I was waiting for someone to
arrive on his white horse and take me away to a magical world. I simply
yearned for more out of life than being someone' s replaceable
amusement. Still a romantic at heart I would often get lost in my
daydreams, imagining a new beginning with a strong man that would
show me an enduring love, safety in his anus, and a lifetime friendship.
Though the suggestion of true loves existence was only a dream for now,
something I could only read about in novelistic fairytales but the passing
thought from time to time was warmly envisioned. With my inner most
desires being locked away in a deep crevice of my heart, I knew my
romantic notions would be absurd in Jeffrey' s eyes. For some unknown
reason to me he couldn' t allow himself to give love or receive someone' s
heart in return. Once he said to me when 1 asked him if he ever thought
he would settle down and find Mrs. Right and he told me he didn' t
believe that love with one monogamous partner was possible but he
found that love with many was. 1 thought at the time it had something to
do with having so much money and everyone wanting him for that
instead of seeing him as a person and even felt bad for him, but now I can
understand from his recent lessons unlearned that it was a simple
equation of his twisted perversion to become infatuated with the
vulnerable youth off the streets. Spending so much time in the entrapment
of Jeffrey' s embrace, I was becoming numb to the feelings and aspiration
to ever climb above this deep hole I had dug myself into. I knew I wanted
to escape from this bizarre form of first class slavery but I still didn' t
have the tools necessary to help me get out. How could I have? Everyone
that knew me believed I was living this enchanting life, a rags to riches
success story that most people dream of, only I knew the price to be paid
for all of this and I was the only one who could pay for it.
Underestimating my true self, I was settled by Jeffrey' s side for now
considering him to be someone to look up to, my mentor. Such a
79
80
I1 Copyright 11,— ted Material Copyright P— cwd Mawrial
CC>NFIDENr1AL OLUFrRL004212 CONFIDENrLAL 011FRL004213
complicated battle within myself, it is one 1 still ache to fully comprehend
today.
Sunny spring days melted away the ice off the frozen streets of New
York and the harsh winter winds begun to gently blow away the dead
leaves, making the caged trees appear to have some form of life again. I
hated the cold winters there, it would only add to my depression being
locked indoors. Give me hot Florida days blistering in the sun where I
can swelter by a cool pool and sip cocktails with pieces of fruit and little
oriental umbrella' s floating around. What a vision of solace? Looking
around my extravagantly decorated mid -evil room I was reminded of the
desolation that I was more than accustomed too. Knowing it wouldn' t be
long before I was summoned again for another ritualistic occurrence in
fornicating with my master, I hardly bothered to leave my assigned
chambers, scarcely being sent home for a moments break, I just accepted
my fate. As I predicted the intercom buzzed momentarily and I heard
Ghislane' s voice come over and request to meet them in Jeffrey' s study.
Not an odd call, I would often meet him there first so he could tie up
some unfinished business before heading to the dungeon, or what was
thought to be the massage room. Making my way down the hall, I had an
eerie feeling wash over me, as if I had several pairs of eyes on me,
watching my every move. A cold chill moved up my spine and I had to
move my thoughts elsewhere, too easy behind these walls to succumb to
my fearsome anxieties. I punched in number one once inside the elevator
and it took me down to the floor where Jeffrey and his surprise guest
were waiting with anticipation behind closed doors. I cracked open the
heavy wooden doors and a familiar face revealed itself. Definitely not
expected or pre -warned on my part but I already knew what he was here
for or at least why I was called down to the study. Prince Andrew had
that notorious cheesy grin slapped over his face, as he looked me up and
down like a shiny new car on display and he was about to take it for a test
drive. Ghislane led me to the decadent sofa he was lounging on and
twirled me around to give him a good lookover before sitting me down on
his lap. Like a show pony I knew exactly how they wanted me to be
paraded around, with the last of my dignity long lost, I had nothing more
to lose. It was easy to give them the reaction they desired, all I had too do
was pretend to be entertained by their lewd gestures, and when Andrew
cupped my breast with a doll made in his image, I only giggled away.
Ghislane wanted to take a picture of the bizarre scene and even got
Johanna, another one of Jeffrey' s so- called personal assistants, to come
sit on his other knee for the snapshot, giving the impression girls couldn' t
stay away from Randy Andy.
Many crude jokes later and I was asked to show Andrew to the upstairs
massage room. I' m sure he already knew where it was from previous
encounters with Jeffrey' s  staff' but I led the way anyways, as if he was
now my guest of honor. Entering into the dim room it took a few minutes
for my eyes to adjust to the darkness, but knowing my way around the
room was enough to find the shower. I turned on the steam room and
began to undress myself. Andrew followed my lead and disrobed,
throwing his attire to the floor. I wanted to nm and hide feeling his hands
touch me again, but my servitude for Jeffrey kept me there. Getting out of
his stronghold I turned my attention to the steam tilling up and tried to
turn his attention to the marble bench where 1 suggested he take a seat
while I rubbed his feet. By the look in his eyes I knew he could care less
about a foot massage, his real desires were being shown by the arousal
his body was forming. He indicated where he wanted me to touch him
and how. I fulfilled his seedy requests, but only just. There was no
pleasure in this for me, the only thing I derived from this event was to
sink further into my slumber of depression. I couldn' t remember a time
when I felt needed for anything other than my body or amusements
thereof. After his massage was thoroughly conducted I couldn' t wait to
get back to my room for another shower. Sitting on the floor of the
shower under the harsh spray of water, I scrubbed my body where he
touched me. Feeling abhorrent and ashamed what I had become, I let the
water wash away the grime.
As the days progressed into nights and the nights followed a trail of
destructive months, my outlook on life had diminished into utter sadness.
I had lost my spark and my ability to look like I could handle the abusive
state of affairs I had drifted into. Sinking deeper in the euphoric state of
being on coke and pills, not only was my mentality dwindling away but
also my looks. I sure as hell didn' t feel like a seventeen year old anymore
and now I wasn' t looking like one. My eyes had dark circles underneath
them from not sleeping and my bones protruded from my skinny
waistline and chest. This made Jeffrey apprehensive in keeping me
around as often and before I had a moments notice, 1 was out of money
and looking for a job. When I questioned him what was happening, lie
told me I wasn' t the same girl he had first met some time ago now and
looked like I needed a break from working so much.  I' ll call you next
time I' m in town was the last thing he said to me.
Chapter 13
Going back to an average teenagers life was more of a harder transition
than 1 would' ve ever thought. Jeffrey stopped paying my expensive rent
and I was forced to get off the drugs and look for a real job to feed and
shelter T. J and L It was much harder than it sounded, but I was craving
81
82
Copyright P, cawed Material
CONFIDENTIAL
GIUFFRE004214
U Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL
GIUFFRFA04215

this in every possible way. Even though a week' s wages for working a
full- time job as a waitress didn' t come close to the money I had made in a
couple hours of working for Jeffrey, I was happier than i had been in a
long time. I made some friends at my new job and found my duties to be
easy and pleasant. I was good at making customers smile and keeping
them happy becoming the waitress that made the most tips for the night,
which in turn made my co- workers happy since we' d all split the tips at
the end of the week. For the first time in a long time I had boys my age
hitting onto me, and not that I was ever taken aback by there attempts but
it reminded me of how it felt to be around a younger crowd. I missed so
much of what I couldn' t get back and the more I tasted it, the more I
remembered how to smile. The relationship between T. J and I began to
falter in a way that was beyond reconciliation. Fights became physical
and I saw sides to him that only pushed me away more. He refused to
look for work to help pay bills and he became utterly frustrated not
having his usual cocktail of assorted drugs to keep him from feeling
anything at all. He didn' t like the fact I was growing inside and thinking
beyond his elusive world. I had gone through too much to accept another
form of abuse and degradation. Making that point very clear to him by
kicking him out of my apartment back to live with his parents, I felt
liberated like never before. I kept up with my rent and cleaned my act tip.
Enrolling in a yoga course and keeping my focus on staying fit and
healthy became my only source of enjoyment. Iwas free and living for
myself.
While out doing the grocery shopping one evening I couldn' t help but
stop at the local pet store and fell in love with a furry pooch. She was a
Japanese Chow -Chow and a bundle of fur that more resembled a baby
brown bear than a dog. 1 took her home with me and instantly she became
my best friend. We went for several walks a day and she bore the brunt of
many tear filled conversations, she was my loyal companion who
understood more than anyone had before, all I really need was someone
to listen and funny enough it was her that filled that hole.
Nearly three months had gone by and not a word from Jeffrey or
Ghislane. With T.J out of the picture now too all I had to concentrate on
was work, my parents and brothers, and of course my dog, Mary -Jane. I
was going to family night dinners and bon fires again. My older brother
was getting married to an amazing woman in a few weeks and I got to be
apart of their beautiful ceremony. Small details of life' s journey that I
already missed so much of and now being able to smile at the simple
things day in day out really seemed to put the real value of life into
perspective for me. Everything seemed to be working out for itself and I
was really happy, until he came back, T. J thought he' d come over my
place one evening while I was sitting at home just watching TV.
Obviously mentally distorted from whatever choice of drugs he was
smoking that night. He screamed down my apartment complex, going
mad and scaring my neighbors I felt like I had no choice but to let him
inside. I tried talking to him as a good friend would, just wanting him to
see what he was doing to himself and what he had become. Part of me
still loved him and took pity on watching him spiral downwards. Taking
him back into my life was not a decision I made whole- heartedly, but was
something I did out of guilt and what I thought was loyalty. He moved his
clothes back to my place, which was all he ever owned anyways and we
tried to pick up the broken pieces. T.J being still badly addicted to many
drugs, I had to be very careful where I kept my jewelry and expensive
items. I decided to rent out a space at a local spot and store my cherished
items away, just taking the necessary precautions, 1 thought.
Still not working I knew how he was scraping by money and I didn' t
agree with it, T.J was a known thief and had been caught several times
attempting to steal things, even as stupid as DVD' s and PS2 or Xbox
games from a local Blockbuster. He even stole from his parents, his sister
and his brother and would probably steal a piece of candy from a five
year old kid if he knew that it would get him his next fix. He hated the
change in myself, realizing I couldn' t be brought back down by his ways
but knowing I still stuck by his side and defended him from anything that
would hurt him wanting to believe that he still wanted show the bits of
human nature left in his empty heart.
Unable to stand by and see me do well for myself he contemplated a
way to try and bring me down. After a busy shift one night, he retaliated
with another show of control. I hadjust finished cleaning up my area and
setting out the tables to be ready for the next day when I went to the bar
to hang up my apron and put my nights tips in the tip bowl on the counter
by the beer tap. On one of his drug induced rampages he stormed into the
restaurant where I was working and started to pick a fight with me. I
knew he was off his face when he started accusing me of sleeping with
my manager on shift that evening. Having no bias or ground to stand on
in his attempt to make me look bad in front of everyone, I just laughed
him off as a drunk idiot who needed to go home and sleep off the night' s
repercussions, although I was fuming inside that he embarrassed me but I
still made excuses for him and told my boss I had to leave early to bring
him home.
The bar was deserted as T.J waited alone for me slumped in a barstool
and looking worse for wear. I had to go to the back of the restaurant and
do some explaining to the manager on duty, I couldn' t afford to lose my
job over this incident. Surprisingly he was sympathetic towards my
dilemma and even told me I could do a lot better than that schmuck,
patting my back and telling me to have a couple days off. I punched out
83
84
1 Copyright protocted Material
CONFIDENTIAL
Copyright protected Material
GIUFFRE004216 CONFIDENTIAL GI1JFFRE004217
and headed to my car with T. J in tow. For the rest of the night he was
oddly quiet and asked to be dropped off at his parent' s house, I was more
than obliged to do so. I couldn' t stand the sight of him let alone want to
be around him tonight. Being so revved up it didn' t yet dawn on me that
something wasn' t right. The next morning I was woken up by an alerting
phone call, I had the manager from the restaurant where I worked, on the
other end screaming at me and asking where the money is. I sat up in bed,
completely awake now, and asked him back,  What are you talking
His tone had calmed a bit and he could hear the
about, what money?
earnestly in my voice and explained his accusations  The tip jar was
empty after you had left last night and there was over a hundred and fifty
dollars in there, now it' s missing. The answer hit me instantly and I got
a terrible knot in my stomach _ T. J. When I left him at the bar not even
thinking about the tip bowl to talk with the manager, he saw an
opportunity to fund more drugs and he took it. That' s why he didn' t even
want to come back to my apartment last night. It was all too clear for me
now and I tried to explain to my manager about my boyfriend' s sickness
and asked him to take the lost money out of my wages.  I have no choice
but to let you go and file a police report for the missing money. I
couldn' t believe what I was hearing. How did things turn upside down so
quickly? I exclaimed  Even though I' m paying you from my pocket for
money I didn' t even steal and you' ve never even had any problems from
me before?. His apologies were short and icy, nothing that could be
done. I slammed down the receiver only to pick it up again to dial T. J' s
parents house and to no surprise he hadn' t slept there last night and was
not able to be reached. I felt like I was in a bad dream I couldn' t wake up
from and with no money to pay rent, eat, or even survive, I was back to
the drawing board.
The week passed without hearing from T. J, he was in hiding, for now.
When the phone rang early one morning I expected it to be him, instead it
was a surprise phone call from a familiar voice. Jeffrey decided to give
me a call to invite me over to his Palm Beach mansion for some lunch
and to catch up, it really was just his way of finding out if I was cleaned
up and ready to come back to work for him. With my life in chaos once
again and having to borrow money off my parents for grocery food, I saw
a quick solution to my situation and was even convinced this is what I
had to do to take care of myself.
He greeted me at the door and led me inside. Ghislane was at her usual
spot, her desk working away, and we headed past her with a quick wave
and lip -synced a  Hello, not wanting to disturb her important sounding
phone call. She glanced up quickly and gave a brisk wave my way, then
put her attention back to the computer. Once we were inside the poolside
cabana, which was Jeffrey' s office, & gym, Jeffrey took a seat behind his
desk and told me to have a seat across from him. He took a sip of water
from an already poured glass and asked if I' d like some.  Yes, Thank
you My reply was short and polite, already just wanting to get this
meeting done and over with. His face was like steel and his expressions
were stern, I felt like a child in trouble sitting in the principles office.
He cut straight to the chase wanting to know  Are you on drugs
anymore? There was a moment' s pause as I took a deep breath and told
him the entire truth.  I got really depressed for awhile and coped with my
emotions by blanketing them with mind -altering substances. Just smoking
a jay to relax wasn' t good enough anymore. 1 needed to be high and
flying to believe I was happy and dealing with all of life' s curveballs.
Snorting things like coke and popping amphetamines replaced my
sorrows with an overflow of endorphins, making it possible to keep up
with everything, until 1 would come down and the cycle just kept on
repeating itself'.
He listened to me continue to tell him about the good things that have
come from the break. Like my dog, yoga, and working at a restaurant,
making lots of new friends but most of all, I got my smile back, without
the drugs this time. He was really happy to hear the upside of everything,
but there was one thing I was reluctant to tell him about. My recent
travail that T.J effortlessly caused at the restaurant where I was so happily
employed. As my manager had warned he had to file a police report
stating that after I had left, the tips were gone, putting the blame solely on
me.
Giving Jeffrey a clear picture of the entire ordeal he exclaimed  What
are you doing with this idiot Jenna, he is no good for you! I know you can
do better for yourself, why do you let him drag you down every time?
Nodding my head in concurrence I went on to finish my epic drama.  I
received a phone call from the PBCP asking me to come in about the
money, I told them what happened over the phone but they still want me
to come in. I don' t want to have a record for something I never did or
ever would do! I put my face into my hands and covered the tears now
trickling down my cheeks.  I just can' t believe this is happening to me
when everything has been going so uphill, now I' m out of work and in
trouble I wiped my face and looked up at him  What do I do? Enabling
him as my mentor once again, his sly grin said it all. Jeffrey normally
hated when girls made waves in any way and this one would be
considered a tsunami but this time it worked to his favor. He wanted me
to come back to work for him, continuing my massage studies and I
needed his help. In his eyes he was doing me a solid, which in return I
would have to scratch more than his back for. Taking his time to
contemplate what to respond back and what solution he could offer, 1
began to worry that maybe I shouldn' t have done this.
85
86
Copyright Protected Material
Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRL004219 CONFIDLNTIAL GIUFTR 004219
Pulling a few tissues out of the box, he passed them across the desk to
me. Trying to retract any damage done 1 said to him  I must look like
such a mess to you and making you listen to my saga, I am so sorry... I
shouldn' t have come to you with all of this. He looked surprised and
sympathetic  Quite the opposite actually. I' m glad you' ve come to me for
help. I have got a lot of connections especially with the Palm Beach
County Police Department. I give them regular hundred thousand dollar
donations, and after I speak with them there will be nothing more to
worry about. To be honest I' m more in shock about how much can
happen to you in such a short time, your life is one big soap opera
Now he was chuckling and trying to make light of my somber mood.
Laughing along too I replied,  I know right? Drama just hangs around
me like a bad smell. We did some more light-hearted catching up and
went out to the poolside for some lunch and a swim, concluding the
evening with an erotic massage upstairs. He paid me the usual two
hundred dollars and asked me to come back tomorrow.  In the meantime
I don' t want you thinking about your sticky situation, consider it dealt
with. His attempt to brighten my spirits had worked relieved about
money and the police but now I owed myself to him feeling indebted to
him more now than ever.
Chapter 14
As was promised I never heard back from the Police Department and
Jeffrey had his favorite girl back by his side. We picked up where we left
off ever better than before, I being entirely subservient to every sexual
desire of his engaging myself in any role he wanted me to play. As he
was getting older his appetite for sex never hazed, if anything it only
increased. The orgies with other girls got larger in numbers and his
appeal to younger girls, new toys and wilder nights expanded from once
and awhile to quite an often occurrence in Jeffrey' s company. I put it
down his new friend and business investment, Jean -Luc Brunel.
A long time agent for young and upcoming models, Brunel, a French
citizen, was known for roaming the world in search of young, naive
beauties living in poverty stricken countries and willing to do just about
anything for money. He would procure them mostly from Clubs in South
America and the Former Soviet Republic. Filling their heads with
fairytales of America and large amounts of money, he would promise
them all of the finer things in life, sometimes even throwing a pill in their
drink, if that meant getting them in his bed was becoming too much of a
task. What he wanted is what he got, which is why him and Jeffrey
ultimately became close pals and he invested one million dollars into
Brunel' s company. In return Jeffrey now had supply of girls on tap for
him to choose from.
With the assistance of each other, Brunel obtaining the illegitimate
visas for underage -overseas girls and Jeffrey housing them at his
brother' s apartment complex on 301 E 66' St, Manhattan, they were
quite the team. Jeffrey and Brunel would charge them for rent, forcing
them to work for them selling their bodies for money, nude pictures, and
even pornography. These were what seemed like really nice people with
not so nice intentions setting an impression of how the dignified wealth
play and behind closed doors they had as much civilized manners as a
barbaric chimpanzee in heat. Giving a girl a step- up in finances by
teaching them there only worth is what lay between their legs, its girls all
were the same in the end, regardless of what country we came from, what
language we spoke or our cultural indifferences, we all were being used
for one thing alone, our youthful looks and beautiful bodies.
Being Jeffrey' s permanent sidekick, I would have to part -take in a
many of the hedonistic exploitations that went on at one of his.many
residences, which meant having to be uninhibited with many girls my age
and younger. Being complete strangers was hard enough but we couldn' t
even understand each other, speaking in different tongues we were
expected to excel at preforming many acts of lovemaking and foreplay on
each other, while being observed by a man in a corner jerking off. Not
exactly what I would call an advantage in my stage of life, but in my head
I was convinced we all had to do what we had to do to get on with life
and if that meant doing all of this to keep Jeffrey happy, then 1 would do
that.
It didn' t take long in the accompaniment of Brunel for Jeffrey to hit an
all time low, at least one that I knew about. Stupid enough or sick
enough, l don' t know which one it is or both but Jeffrey bragged about
his birthday present from Brunel, once accepting three, twelve year old
girls, sisters at that. He replayed the descriptive events with me telling me
how they all massaged him and finished him off orally. He was so excited
about the entire event, replaying over and over again over the next course
of weeks how cute they were and how you could tell they were really
young by the small amount of hair growth in their pubic region and nonexistent
breasts. A twelve year old, are you serious? I thought to myself.
I still can' t shake the feeling of disgust when I recall the look on his face
as he told me time and time again of how his lust brought him to that
profound low. He went on to tell me how Brunel bought them in Paris,
France, from their parents. Offering them the usual sums of money, visas,
and modeling career prospects was a bribe of the worst kind, they were
just children. Laughing the whole way through, Jeffrey thought it was
87
88
E Copyright Protected Material
Copynght Protected Material
CONFIDENI IAL GIUFFRE004220 CONFIDENTIAL. OIUFFRE00422I
absolutely brilliant how easily money seduced all walks of life... nothing
or no one that couldn' t be bought in his eyes. Behind the two of them
followed a destructive trail of those in their path that were misused,
violated, degraded in a variety of ways for one purpose... to satisfy the
desires of the perversion that rotted their hearts.
The next couple of months I spent in Jeffrey' s company, my life was
revolved around him and his petty happiness. Arising to the occasion, I
was no longer his teenage sidekick, I was growing into being a young
woman and my body was blossoming like never before. Out of the
awkward stages of my life, I now took to looking after myself like never
before. Regular sessions in tanning beds and keeping fit became my life
outside of Jeffrey. He kept telling me what a beautiful woman I was
developing into and would offer suggestions to help me look good.
Sending me to dentists for regular teeth whitening consultations or
helping me choose my attire for the evening,, he was ushering me into a
whole new position, training me up for something else, but I was unsure
of what that was.
Being a snotty little teenager was a girl of the past. Now I had to be his
eloquent speaking, desirable to all and almost his personal porcelain doll.
I went everywhere with him again, all of his eclectic dinner parties,
conferences, and meetings with various members of parliament, famous
celebrities, and other esteemed billionaires.. most of whom lived by the
same rule of thumb as Jeffrey did. Quite an alarming realization having to
accept this world the way it is_ Jeffrey knew all of the right people in this
game, and trading girls for favors is how he kept in the circle. He was at
the center of it all, blackmail being the only thing next to money with the
ability to pull a many of strings, his conniving ulterior motive was to drag
all that he could down to his pitiful state of mind. Inviting easily tempted
acquaintances to his island or his other various residences he would bring
out the assortment of young girls and pass them around like they were
cocktails on a platter. No girl had a choice in whom they went with, only
completing a task, we would have to charm and bedazzle these ageing fat
men who other than paying for it would' ve never had a shot at getting to
know a beautiful girl intimately. I personally belonging to Jeffrey rarely
had to be loaned out and it was a big occasion, or should I say favor, if I
was. I' ll never really know what made me so important or special to
Jeffrey, it definitely had nothing to do with love. I guess in the end I will
always put it down to my capability of being whomever he wanted when
he wanted, so compliant it just made it easy for him to have a personal
toy at his constant disposal. All I can say is I lived in a jail with no bars,
and in a country where slavery was supposedly abolished a long time ago
but still existed right underneath everybody' s noses. Myself and so many
other girls were walking proof of it.
I still was given proper training in massage therapy from time to time,
keeping me from looking back at being a teenager with no responsibilities
to being a young adult with prospering titles. He knew I wanted to be selfsufficient
so bad I would do anything for it and by giving me this dream
to hold to only kept me in check. I looked forward to my training
sessions, holding onto every word passed down to me and after the
session was complete I would hurry back to my room and transfer the
information into a workbook with associating exercises.
Trying my new moves on Jeffrey always impressed him, he would get
excited hearing about my passion for knowledge and would tell me he
could see it transfer into my massages, always giving it my all, my hands
were a focused energy when I was at work. Using every ounce of strength
to apply on a body, many were astounded in what 1 could do for being
such a small girl, and Jeffrey loved it, using me for a two- hour massage
with benefits sometimes being over twice a day. Ghislane would
sometimes use me to massage her still but it wasn' t as common, she
preferred a man for that job.
Then would come the odd client here and there, of course set up by
Jeffrey. Most of which were orchestrated to get beautiful girls
comfortable and consequently naked then he would go in for the kill, so
to speak, touching them intimately, in their most private of places like
their vagina, breasts or anal. When he had us where he wanted, willing
and able, then would come the toys, outfits and so on. A scheme he has
used time and time again, telling those who know him well  he had never
been turned down yet. It was starting to dawn on me how 1 wasn' t
getting any clientele that weren' t used for Jeffrey' s benefit and would
make me wonder if I just wasn' t good enough for that, but I kept quiet,
never wanting to make waves like I had before.
To give me a break from it all as if Jeffrey didn' t want to overload me
again, he would send me away to his ranch for a few days, what he knew
I considered being a small slice of heaven on earth. I' d spend my days
roaming the hills, riding horses, and enjoying the solitude of my own
company. One afternoon I was out exploring the land on Jeffrey' s ranch
which covered hundred' s of acres with nothing but a bottle of water, my
sketchbook and a small case of oil paint. I was on the search for
something interesting to paint. A great pastime of mine, it made my soul
quiet by creating beauty with my brush, I loved to recreate the images I
saw on paper. I would paint anything beautiful that caught me eyes
interest, from underwater scenes, animals to people and even fruit, I loved
vibrant colors and emotion on display but my favorite soon became the
landscape of the Santa Fe' s rolling hills and earthly green and beige tones
and in certain light it would illuminate into a golden shine. To grasp that
feeling I was absolved in at the hardest of times became my greatest inner -
89
90
I Copyright protected Material Copyright Protected Material
CONF1DLNr1AL GIUFFRE004222 CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRL004223
achievement, like taking a piece of that serenity and putting on paper for
me to keep in my heart where it still is today, closing my eyes I am able
to see it, being there anytime I need to. I was enjoying the heat and taking
in the deserts sights when I stumbled off the track and into the
wilderness. Exploring everything new to me was my second nature and
never even entered my mind what would' ve happened if I went too far or
got lost. I would rather face Mother Nature' s wrath than humankind' s any
day!
After about an hour of drifting off track I came to a pile of rubble,
looking like the remnants of an old pueblo made out of clay and rock. I
picked up what looked like half of a clay bowl and noted that it had
Indian designs etched into the side of it. Excited about my findings I
decided to do some more exploring around the fields surrounding the
historic site. I collected rare pieces of arrowheads, utensils, and parts of
many broken bowls with artwork telling tales of their own_ Time was of
no essence here and before I even realized the sun had sunk deeper into
the hills leaving me without any light to find my way back to the
pathway. Feeling silly now after passing by a familiar looking boulder
twice over, I was startled when I heard some poor animal become dinner
for another, it' s screams of agony only amplified louder and echoed in
my ear drums, heightening the hairs on the back of my neck and making
my heart beat nearly out of my chest.
I was lost and confused before but now I was petrified with fear.
Taking me over three hours to find my way back to the path and in the
direction of Jeffrey' s mansion was a mission, so relieved in the end and
so were the housemaids after I hadn' t showed up for dinner, assuming I
must' ve been out for one of my usual adventures. I went to bed
strenuously exhausted that night and as I was falling asleep the phone
rang, it was a call from Jeffrey who had been alerted of my
disappearance.  What happened tonight, one of the maids called me to
tell me you hadn' t come back from your walk this evening Detecting a
tone of anger in his voice I tried to distract him by telling him of my
findings and he scolded me for being gone for so long without anyone
knowing where I was. Going back to the Indian remnants, I persisted on
telling him what I had found. In the end he was just worried about me
becoming a liability, but had to make it sound as if he cared.  Don' t
worry Jeffrey, I won' t be doing that again. I can honestly say I have
learned my lesson and the next time I want to explore I promise to take
someone with me. I satisfied his worry of me being a future nuisance
and with that I was finally able to tell him what I had discovered on my
walls. He was impressed but did not sound surprised.  You must' ve been
gone a long time if you found the old Indian pueblo' s, just be careful you
don' t say anything about where you found the stuff on my property, it
could become a sight for historical preservation and that means the
government could ultimately own my land.
I acknowledged his request and told them they were just a gift for my
Mom, who was in love with Indians  Wait until she see' s I brought her
back real artifacts, she is going to totally freak out. He didn' t mind that I
was taking them. In fact he admired my curiosity and adventurous spirit.
He reminded me that tomorrow was my last day. I would be driven to the
Albuquerque International Airport the day after next, to meet Jeffrey in
New York, for how long, only he knew. Giving Jeffrey many thanks for a
great week, letting him know how much I appreciated these small breaks
away, we then said goodnight. Hanging up the phone 1 had caught my
second wind and set out to the kitchen to find a late- night snack. Raiding
the fridge and pantry, I found some frozen pizzas and popcorn. I put on a
movie and munched on the popcorn while the pizza cooked. Some 1980' s
dreadful alien flick got the better of me that night. It was based on a true
story about people abductions from extraterrestrial beings, which were,
like I was, visiting a remote area. I suddenly hated being alone on a ranch
in the middle of nowhere. I munched down my burnt, crunchy pizza and
became further enveloped in the thick plot. Leaving on the TV and the
lights on that night, I spent my night tossing and turning, peeking through
the small open crevices of the comforter, half expecting to see an alien
being in my bedroom.
Living through the night was a relief and 1 laughed at myself in the
morning, how spooked did I get? When I got to New York, Jeffrey, and
Ghislane had a good laugh over my tale of survival in the wilderness and
then the alien scare.  Your always having the best adventures Ghislane
exclaimed. We were similar in that way, both being s bit of free spirits it
was really only her non- existence of moral standards that differentiated
the two of us, in that way.  How do you know you weren' t abducted and
probed? I mean look at you and all that time alone on the ranch, what do
you think Jeffrey, could she pass off as an alien? Expectedly, Ghislane
poked fun at me, her usual fun past time. Our relationship was an odd
one, never threatened by each other but always precautions towards one
another nonetheless able to crack a joke together, but when it came time
to  work it was no flan and games, she was intensely serious.  With a
sense of humor like yours I would tend to think that you are the one from
another planet. Just friendly banter between the two of us, then Jeffrey
had to jump in with his two bits,  I think you might be onto something
Ghislane. 1 squinted my eyes and gave them both an exaggerated death
stare and pretended to grab my stomach in pain,  1 think some things
trying to get out of me, putting my fist in my shirt to reenact a scene
from Alien, I fell onto the couch and faked my death.  1 knew it
Ghislane shouted and jumped on me to begin tickling me all over and we
91
92
Copyright Protected M, W,,,, l
CONFIDLN' I IAL
U Copyright Protected Material
OIUFFRL004224 CONFIDENTIAL OIUITRE004225
all broke out into laughter. It was those fun times that made me feel like
we were all apart of this really perplexed family. We did everything
together similar to normal families like eat dinner, watch TV, and travel it
was only the hedonistic and corrupt side to these two deviates that made
them a peculiar pair.
Getting turned on at the two of us playing together, Jeffrey came over
to the couch we were on and pulled down his sweatpants revealing his
erect manhood. All of the laughter stopped, now it was time for work.
Pushing my head into his pubic region I had to give into his perverted
wants. Ghislane started to undress me. Once I was bare she loved starting
with my breasts. She cupped them in her hands and brushed her fingers
over my hardened nipples heading downwards pressing her lips deeply
into my skin, I had to maneuver my body on the couch in a complex
position to give them both what they wanted. And just like that, without
even a moment' s notice I could be put on the spot and have to amuse
them in any way they wanted. A shameful way to make someone feel like
a used toy, I wasn' t around for companionship I was there for one thing, I
was a compliant piece of eye candy.
Twenty minutes later and Jeffrey had erupted in pleasure. Ghislane sat
up, still fully dressed, and wiped the sides of her mouth with her hands,
giving a vindictive little chuckle,  That was fun. Jeffrey concurred with
a sly grin arching his back for a stretch just looking able to utter the
request  Why don' t you come tip with me upstairs for a steam bath and
massage, I need to be loosened up after that? It was more of a statement
than a request, as if I had the choice to say  No thanks, I' m actually tired
myself and would love to just relax instead I would reply with my
accustomed trained obedience,  No problem, when your ready lead the
way. I had to get dressed again being that we were in Ghislane' s
downstairs office. Putting my clothes back on, Ghislane thought she had
buttered him up just where she wanted him to ask for him to come have a
look at her new townhouse renovations when he was finished with his
massage. A very strange relationship those two have, there' s a definite
love flowing between them but not a passionate one, more like a
respectful business, he gets what he wants ... an uncountable number of
girls and she gets what she wants, simple and sweet ... an uncountable
amount of money. The two things in life that can create such beautiful
moments or the most horrendously terrible of them all, is sex and money.
Chapter 15
I joined him for a shower, steam bath and concluded his needs with a
massage while listening to classical music. 1 knew he didn' t want
anything sexual from me now seeing he got what he already wanted
downstairs, no this one was purely therapeutic. My favorite massages to
give, making me feel like an actual real therapist. I lathered him in
aromatic oils and let my hands discover the ways to unlock the stresses
that his body held. After the massage was concluded we were going
downstairs to get ready to go see Ghislane' s townhouse as he had
promised her earlier. He loved taking the hidden staircase while 1 hated it.
I was so creeped out by his choice of decor, the blood red carpets, violent
medieval paintings, and sculptures of the pagan god Pan, all of it
representing the darker side of hedonism his lifestyle provoked. Spiraling
down the hallway along with each step you took came with a pair of eyes
that followed your every step. Brown, blue, green, hazel, all of the colors
were there, staring at you the entire way down. As each step progressed,
SO would my anxiety to get out of there.
We found Ghislane where we had left her, in her office. She had just
received an order in, a satellite camera with a twelve -inch flat screen. She
told us how it was used to pick up any person in any location with the
quick insert of an address. Quite a powerful new toy I thought, but it was
only a minute display of what the rich could afford, what use they would
get out of it was another concern. Soon after she was done figuring out
the controls on the camera, we made a rare and first for me pit stop, the
security room. What I thought was our way out by the front door was
another hidden door. I was in shock as I was led into a room, so discreet
that in three years I never even knew it existed. I kept my head down
most of the time, knowing how secretive this must be being another door
was an entire security base within his mansion. What 1 could see when 1
stole a glimpse here and there was an array of tiny screens, twenty odd or
something. Small screens showing various rooms of the mansion I had
recognized. The images were constantly changing sol found it hard to
pinpoint an exact location but from the decor and short glimpses i
suddenly knew from then on that my feelings of my every move being
watched inside his corridors was now more than apossibility but was
actually happening. Jeffrey spoke to an obese Spanish guy at the desk,
whose job was to disgustingly overlook all of the video feedback. Kill
two birds with one stone Jeffrey thought, free porn to share with all of his
pedophile friends and when the occasion called for it, a security system
all at one expense. Ever consumed with making money as well as saving
it, I was again astonished at Jeffrey' s capabilities. 1 didn' t want to even
think how deep the video infiltrated, pretending like I never saw anything
at all I put the memory to the back of my mind and went on about my
day. Stopping at Ghislane' s new townhouse, another gift bought and paid
93
94
F Copyright Protectod Matc, ml
Copyright Protected Malarial
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004226 CONFIDFNCIAL GIUFIRE004227
for by Jeffrey, he pointed out needed changes all over the place, driving
the builders mad, as always. He wanted the place to scream out
GHISLANE with a bold statement. Checkered floors and bold colors
was the theme, like the queen of hearts from Alice in Wonderland, very
well suited I thought.
The dust from the walls being torn down chocked my throat and the
elevator was not in use, the stairs were hardly either. The whole house
was in bad shape then having to go up three flights of rickety steps was a
bit of a risk too but worth it once you made it to her future walk in
wardrobe or to us commoners, a closet the size of a small a house.
Complete with a dressing room, luxurious bathroom and plenty of storage
for her every ensemble. Even without it being finished it was already a
work of art, a sanctuary for any woman. She adorned herself in her future
home, finally her own, relishing every inch of it, she already put in a
work desk and spoke constantly of its ongoing renovations. About an
hour later we were off to pick out curtains and look at some paint samples
at a couple different boutique looking shops. Easily passing off as an
ordinary couple for the day, they walked arm in arm strolling the streets
of the Upper East Side. Except to me, still replaying the early afternoon' s
events, shaking my head over the echoed images in my mind, I followed
behind just waiting to be needed again.
Over the course of the next few months was a constant influx of
exorbitant excursions at Jeffrey' s mansions, mainly to his island, to keep
LIP with his ever -demanding sexual appetite with various young women
and teenage girls. I got back on the Xanax, an old habit that I felt at the
time would stop my memories from flowing back, rehabilitate my
problems and relax me enough to deal with any situation at hand, no
matter what the circumstance revealed itself to be. It was a drug that
would blind my eyes to everything I should' ve been running from.
Having Brunel always in the picture these days wasn' t helping me at all
either. Sending his girls for Jeffrey at all of his places now and at a
vigorous flow, they had an abundance of girls at their disposal. If I were
to count one girl for everyday of the week, it would be the
underestimated statement of the century. So many girls between the two
of them, some nights it would be a free for all frenzy for Jeffrey and
Brunel, seven or so girls giving them their upmost attention, doting on
their every moan and whimper, Jeffrey being the main concern since
Brunel worked for him and we were all aware of that too. If there were
heaven on earth for men like Jeffrey, than he would be their God. Every
one of his inner most desires was fulfilled when his harem of women was
around. No wonder he didn' t travel much abroad these days, all he ever
wanted was right at his doorstep. I couldn' t believe that he was still
asking me to bring girls to him as well. There was never enough girls to
fill his appetite, so on occasion I would meet a pretty girl around my age
and invite her back to his place to make some quick money by offering
her a really good contact in the modeling and acting business. Keeping
him satisfied and in need of me was a tiring job. With so much
competition I had to be on the ball, seeming ambitious to grant him all of
his desires. It was a lot of pressure and a spotlight of a role to undertake
at such a young age but I told myself this is what my life' s training had
led me up to be.
My Birthday was around the corner and turning eighteen had lost all of
its sparkle and pizzazz. There were no more surprises in store for me,
nothing that would bedazzle me I hadn' t done already. I spent my
birthday on the island, having a quiet dinner and watching  Sex and the
City on the couch with Jeffrey, Ghislane and Emmy. There was no cake
or a celebration of any sort but I did get a couple of presents that I opened
outside underneath the main cabana. Jeffrey gave me a beautiful pair of
sapphire and diamond encrusted earrings and Ghislane bought me another
designer makeup case. I thanked the two of them with a tight squeeze and
a gratuitous short spiel. As it went quiet, I looked out to the ocean and
wondered if across these waters was there ever going to be happier days
spent with someone special to me. Would he be kind, compassionate, and
always be there when 1 needed him most? Or would 1 end up settling for
my final bit of training, a marriage to a greedy old scrooge? Either way
what I wanted most didn' t matter right now, I was still bound by Jeffrey' s
hold over me and all I had to keep telling myself to get through this epic
journey was, this is just the way it was for now.
Around the table for breakfast Jeffrey announced that he was expecting
a few guests coining over with Brunel, no one of importance, just his
usual entourage of beautiful girls. Russian models this time and Jeffrey
was also having a photographer flown in to take modeling photos using
the island as the perfect background for a sexy shoot. All of us girls were
ushered onto rocks, hammocks, dug into sand and displayed just about
anywhere they wanted. We were being photographed in next to nothing,
like a netted fabric placed over us if the shot called for it, but the more
provocative the more Jeffrey and Brunel loved it.
After the photo shoot we did some outdoor watersports. While us girls
raced the jet skis around and jumped on the water trampoline, the men
stayed on dry land to watch us from the beach. I was so used to this
constant charade of girls and I didn' t mind having a bit of fun but this
was different, I had to be more than just polite because I already knew it
wouldn' t be long before we were all intimate with each other as well.
Being the only girl that spoke English out of all of them was also a huge
blunder. The only way we could communicate was through hand gestures
95
96
Il Copyright Protcctod Mato—I
Copyright Protwtad Matonal
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004228 CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004229
and body language, a very primitive form of speaking, but what choice
did we have?
I did my best to get acquainted and as I had previously assumed after
lunch on the beach we were again ushered into another part of the island,
Jeffrey' s cabana. There was no need for words here, as the girls already
knew exactly what to do. Without saying anything they undressed me and
began to ravage my body with their hands, tongues, lips and fingers. I
was delirious, never having done anything like this before with so many
girls. It was sheer chaos; I don' t honestly know how men could fantasize
over this. Through the glimpses in between bodies crossing over me 1
could see Jeffrey and Brunel watching us, sitting in a chair with their
hands around their penises, stroking themselves together  The best part is
they don' t even speak English so there' s never a need to have to keep
them amused I could hear one of the men divulge and pretty sure it came
from Jeffrey laughing out loud to Brunel. I just closed my eyes and went
somewhere else in my mind until it was all over. That was that, life went
on and we all moved on to eat dinner together.
It couldn' t be more awkward as Jeffrey and Brunel were beside
themselves with their ego' s beaming, and the girls chatted like busy little
chipmunks with each other. Ghislane and Emmy on the other end of the
table were being amused at the entire racquet around the table and then
there was me. Sitting quietly and smiling in people' s direction when
needed, I was counting down the minutes until I could go lay down in my
giant comfortable bed, slipping away to the gentle noises the island
created and sink comfortably into a deep sleep with the assistance of my
Xanax. Scratching at the plate in front of me with my fork out of
boredom, I wasn' t even hungry. I had lost my appetite for food. Rather
sipping on the champagne I wanted to feel as far away from here as
possible. What seemed like hours for everyone to finish their meals we
were finally all saying goodnight and goodbye to each other, as Brunel
was off early in the morning and taking the eight beauties with him.
Thank God I told myself, once was more than i could handle of that in
one day.
It didn' t take me long to get back into my own comfort zone. Heading
straight back to my cabana after dessert was served nearly tripping over
my own two feet as I tried to scuttle off in a hung. As soon as I entered
my domain, I drew a breath and sighed a deep exhale outwards, finally
alone and at peace... for now at least. Although the sun had set hours ago
the high temperatures of the Caribbean were still an affliction, plaguing
my cabana I was welcomed by a rush of warns air as I opened the door. I
hit the switch to the fan and stripped down for a shower. Preparing my
towel and toiletries I opened the back door to the outside shower and
placed them on the floor. Whether I was cleaning up in the midst of a hot
day or retiring for the evening, an outside shower was always splendid.
Under a thick dark cloak of the night sky only the moon and stars to shed
enough light for me to see my way around. I could feel the soft breeze
lick the droplets falling off of my bodies' curves in the reflection of the
moonlight. It only encouraged me to stay longer under the warmth from
the spray of rushing water. I let the hot water nm out before I was
sufficed enough to go back inside. Lounging around the bed in my
panties and a tank top I was still sweltering from the heat. Trying to tire
myself out, I did some reading and eventually fell asleep. 1 needed those
times to unwind after such an ordeal, letting the Xanax wash away all of
the pain I could then forgive the mistakes 1 had made, blaming myself for
staying around for this I had wished I was never born at all. The pills
would take all of that away for me. My heart was a tangled weave of
deception and pain, only reassured by the lies that were told to me and the
lies 1 would have to convince myself of.
Chapter 16
When we flew back into Palm Beach, Juan drove me back to my
apartment. Lonely for some companionship I decided to call an old
friend. I was longing to be important to someone and unfortunately with
such little time to have a social life of my own 1 was compelled to call T. J
again. His Mom answered the phone and sounded quite surprised to hear
my voice on the other end. She was always kind to me, I even used to
bring her back  Cola cans from other countries a bizarre hobby she
loved collecting. She just didn' t know what I saw in her son, even saying
that to his face many times over. Not blind to his ways of cheating and
stealing, being a personal victim of it, she made it apparent that she did
not approve of TYs choice in lifestyle. It used to really hurt him how his
parents thought so badly of him, so he gave up trying to earn their love a
long time ago. As long as he didn' t steal from them anymore he was
allowed to live there. Instead of that being a lesson to him, he would just
try to be more clever in what he would steal, less obvious things. He
would steal the toaster and sell it for five dollars if he knew it would help
to get him his next high.
Nonetheless and at my expense I had a sweet spot for him. With
enough water under the bridge, I was able to forget about the troubles he
caused. His Mom told me she' d pass on the message when he got home,
but that could be days from now. The last time he had been home was
over a couple of weeks now. He only stopped by to get something to eat,
have a long sleep and to beg her for a few bucks, supposedly to help him
buy food. Then he was off again without a single word said, only leaving
97
98
P Copyright Prorecmd M--] -
CONFIDENTIAL
Copyright Protected M- 61
GIUFFRE004230 CONFIDENTIAL GIUII RL004231
his parents to their own assumptions, which were pretty much correct
anyways.
I then called around a couple of mutual friends to see if anyone had
heard from him. Everyone I spoke to pointed their fingers in the same
direction and the worst place possible, Ritchie' s house. One of his best
friends told me of how bad he was doing,  He' s not the same guy
anymore, and all he cares about is the next high he gets. If we don' t get
anything for him he just loses it and goes off somewhere. It was hard to
hear how badly affected my best friend was and a part of me secretly
hoped they weren' t right. Still defending him, 1 told everyone I had spoke
too while trying to find him that TJ would be fine, he' s just probably
going through a bad phase, like we all do sometimes and needs people to
have his back more than ever now. I was pretty much laughed at on the
spot, most people that I considered my friends at the time were only
friends by association_ As long as we all looked the part, acted the part,
and could handle the part, only then did they want to be around us. The
last person I called was the last person I had hoped he wasn' t with and it
turned out that everyone was right.
He was with one of the biggest Coke dealers in our area, Ritchie -Rich,
as everyone used to call him. He didn' t look like a typical strung out
junkie or dealer. Instead he looked like your average preppy college grad
with aspiring propositions. He dressed well and acted like a nice guy to
imminent clients only to get them hooked on his drugs and then turns
them out onto the streets. He was a businessman and his business was
thriving. He carried everything from most drugs to guns and knives.
Having ears in all places made him a dangerous acquaintance. Using kids
off the local Palm Beach streets to run his dirty errands and the errands of
the others above him, he made his money by using these teenagers, who
as hard as it was to believe was once somebodies sweet child.
I knew TJ didn' t have the finances to support himself or his drug habit
so the likelihood of him being indebted to Ritchie in other ways was a
safe assumption. Obtaining Ritchie' s number from one of T.J' s friends
Marcus he asked me,  What do you want to call Ritchie for? Come over
to Try place and I can get you whatever you want Marcus was a sleaze
bag who would tirelessly continue to try to appeal to my lesser sense of
judgment, never getting the hint or just not caring that I could never and
would never be interested in him.  No Thanks Marcus, can I just get the
number please, it' s very important that I get ahold of TJ, I' m really
worried about him. I hated having to call this guy let alone have to ask
him for something.  Is this about the Adam bullshit? Cause if it is you
can let him know what a fucking bitch he is for not showing up to be
there for him, you can tell him from me that it' s his fault and it should' ve
been him that' s lying in the morgue now, not Adam I was totally thrown
by his allegations 1 could only mutter out a whisper  Did youjust say that
Adam is dead, what happened?  Oh snaps, I thought you knew, where
have you been girl, under a rock or something? Marcus was less than
sensitive about his statements.  He got shot in the head by two black guys
who got suspicious when their usual supplier didn' t show up, your boy
TJ was so fucked up he didn' t even remember to turn up at Ritchie' s for
the delivery, so Ritchie sent Adam alone and now he' s dead. Adam was
a sweet kid who just happened to be born living on the wrong block. Best
friends with TJ since childhood, the two were inseparable until puberty
hit and even then they would chase girls together. Adam followed in T. J' s
every footstep, mimicking his shadow, if TJ jumped off the Eifel Tower
then so would Adam so when TJ got hooked on drugs consequently
Adam did too, leading ultimately to his death. Wanting to end the
conversation with Marcus quickly 1 scribbled down the phone number on
a blank piece of paper in front of me and hung up the phone to call
Ritchie' s place immediately.
Yeah? It was Ritchie whom bluntly answered the phone after the first
ring.  Hi —Uh- Rich, It' s Jenna, T.J' s ex, we met a couple of times at a
few parties I was trying to remind him of who I was knowing how
paranoid he was about people having his number.  Oh yeah, I know who
you are, what is it you want? He answered with a dry tone.  I was
hoping you could tell me where I could find TJ, I' ve heard some stuff
and am really worried about him, is he alright? Ritchie snickered at my
concerns.  What are you his Mom or something? He' s fine, lie should be
back here around five o' clock, I' ll tell him you called. In the middle of
me saying  Thanks and good-bye he hung up the phone, as there is no
room for manners in his line of work. I waited until five o' clock watching
the minutes on the clock tick past and when five o' clock came and passed
by with still no phone call, I couldn' t deny to myself that I wasn' t
stricken with distress. Falling asleep wasn' t easy either. I ended up
crashing out on my sofa watching T.V, half expecting to hear of another
murder on the news and it being T.J.
Forgetting to put on my eye mask before I went to bed, I was woken up
the next morning by rays of the sun beaming into my living room. When I
sleep I am a creature of darkness, avoiding any window light at all costs.
Staggering to the coffee pot not used to getting up this early, my first
thought that day was TJ and why he hadn' t called. A million thoughts
rushed through my head like a steam train ... is he ok? Is he not calling
because he is still mad from our last breakup? Has he moved on to
someone else? Is he in any trouble? Did Ritchie even pass on my
message? The thoughts were an endless infliction, consuming my entire
day.
100
U Copyright Protected Material
U
Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004232 CONFIDENTIAL GIUPIRE004233
Until finally he called my cell phone later in the afternoon, relief swept
over me when I heard his voice on the other end.  Thank God you called,
I have been so worried about you, are you alright? I jumped in without
letting him get past saying  Hello.  Yeah, I' m fine. Ritchie told me you
called his house looking for me yesterday and gave me shit for it saying
you were upset or something, what' s up? I knew I would have to be
delicate about asking what happened to Adam, thinking he' d be a mess
over it. I heard from Marcus that something happened to Adam and I got
worried about you, what is going on? T. J sounded scared, for what
reasons were beyond my knowledge but I was going to find out, he
replied  1 don' t want to talk about it over the phone. Are you in town so
we can meet up or something? It was obvious I wanted him to know that
I was more than willing to lend my shoulder for his problems.  I' m home
now if you want to come over whenever you feel like it. He didn' t
hesitate in taking me up on the offer.  But 1 won' t be able to get there
until later, I' m downtown at Ritchie' s place unless you want to come pick
me up.
It was more of a request than a favor to myself which is what he was
making it out to sound like, knowing him all to well I didn' t make a fuss
of his ill -contemplated attributes. I got the address off him and made my
way into the ugliness of the not so dazzling parts of the Palm Beaches
downtown area. Rolling up my windows and locking the doors to my
truck I nervously drove through the rough streets trying to find Ritchie' s
apartment complex. Knowing all too well the history of the area, it' s not a
place a lone white girl in a nice truck wants to be seen, many reports of
the locals rushing up to a vehicles with a weapon demanding money,
cars, or just angry and out to hurt someone. I was speeding through the
streets wanting to get out of there as quick as I could. A sad world we live
in with so much hurt everywhere you look and nobody wanting to do
anything about it, just accepting the hopelessness of never being able to
achieve anything more than what our civilization has succumbed to.
Being among one of those people, we were similar in so many ways.
Only separated by our own personal fears and the different direction they
pulled us into.
