and ran all the way up the runway to jump excitedly into his arms. I
wrapped my arms and legs around him holding onto him for dear life. I
just missed him so much I knew I would never let him go, theoretically
speaking that is, and I never have nearly a decade later.
Chapter 24
Over the near decade we spent together, Robbie and I have shared the
common highs and lows that every determined marriage endures. It has
taken a lot of hard work and doesn' t come without its flaws but no matter
what it is just perfect for the two of us. He helped Ine how to remember to
smile again and life has slowly began to sort itself out. They say that time
heals all wounds but what I had experienced in my young years wasn' t
nearly long enough to let all of the hurt go. Seeking help through many
counselors and psychiatrists I was doing everything I could do to deal
with the scars and all of the pain left behind. Completely off of any
pharmaceuticals, since the last day of our honeymoon, and healing my
heart with love instead of hate our marriage is my foundation and Robbie
is my solid rock. We have to be for one another, putting the bonds of our
union through the wringers and back, as neither of us expected my past
life eventually to come back and haunt me after so long.
Our blissful life came to a sudden halt one day when we were out
visiting my in- laws at their nearby house on just another plain afternoon.
There was a knock on the front door and my father in law got up from
watching TV on the couch to answer it. He rushed back quickly coming
into the dining room, where I was feeding my nineteen months and five
month old boys at the table, and he blurted out,  Jenna there are three
police officer' s at the door asking for you by the name of Virginia
Roberts! I asked my mother in law to stay with the babies to find out
what this was all about. I didn' t even think it had anything to do with
Jeffrey at first and wasn' t even worried when I opened the door to offer
them to come inside to talk.
They weren' t actually police officers and two federal agents of
Australia with one F. B. I agent from America. The American agent asked
if I wouldn' t mind actually coming outside so that I may speak with them
in private.  Okay I said, as well as mentally preparing myself for
something big from the look of it, it' s not over a parking ticket or
anything small that you get three federal agents knocking at your in- laws
front door asking to speak in private.  Can we first ask you if you are in
fact Ms. Virginia Roberts and originally from Palm Beach County in the
United States? I confirmed my name and previous state of residence
then they even asked,  May we see some identification please? A
different agent asked the question this time and I told him  I will have to
go and grab it, my purse is inside. I' ll just be one second.
Robbie was standing on the other side of the door trying to figure out
what they were doing here talking to me and when I rushed through it to
grab my purse and saw him standing there looking puzzled, I told him I
had no idea what this was about yet, but not too worry everything was
going too be just fine. Taking a deep breath and slowly exhaling
outwards, I opened the door to find out exactly what the agents wanted to
talk about.
135
136
Copyright Pi ­, ted Materiel Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL C11, JFPRE004268 CONFIDENTIAL 01111FRE004269
Pulling out my Australian drivers license from my wallet, I was going
to hand it over to them but they were sufficed at a quick glance. There
was no meet and greet, they went straight to the point. One agent picked
up a briefcase off the porch floor and opened it up taking out a stapled
stack of paper. Then that same agent asked me if I had ever known an
affiliate by the name of Mr. Jeffrey Epstein. All of the sudden my
stomach tangled in a familiar knot that I hadn' t felt in many years from a
past life that I was trying to forget about. I nodded in affirmation of their
question and said  It was a long time ago and he' s no longer an affiliate
of mine, but yes, I did know him once. It was shameful enough to think
about let alone talk about with them for the first time since I had started
my entire life over. His next response left me nothing short of speechless.
The United States Attorney' s Office for the district of Florida was giving
me a notification of being an identified victim. Jeffrey was finally caught
for his atrocious acts ofperversion on girls who were barely old enough
to even comprehend  the birds and the bees so to speak.
On June 30°i 2008, Jeffrey Epstein pleaded guilty for procurement of
minors to engage in and solicitation of prostitution. More than a dozen
girls had been named as victims of Jeffrey' s federal offense' s and without
ever stepping a day in court he was granted a plea bargain consenting to
charges that named him a registered pedophile for only two of the minor
girls. Getting away with even serving only twelve of the sentenced
eighteen months behind bars be that in the evening alone and in the
morning he was released during the day. Restricted to the confinement of
his lavish mansion in Palm Beach only to be with his original sex slaves
from over ten years ago, Nadia Marcinkova and Sarah Kellen, and
knowing Jeffrey all too well, they wouldn' t be the only ones there while
he was pulling his laughing stint of retribution. Even at nighttime the girls
were still allowed to visit him, accounting to nearly seventy times while
serving his time in incarceration.
No justice had been served for any of us victims. Denied the very
constitutional rights allegedly there to protect and serve us. We weren' t
allowed to have a voice in front of a jury and judge or even informed for
that matter. Instead we were handed this notification of being a victim but
told we were all too late to do anything about. To make matters worse
part of that plea bargain was that we had the option to sue him with the
lawyers he provided for us, and conveniently enough I found out later
they were also his lawyer' s old friends from the college days.
I felt my knees go weak and the anxiety churning in my stomach was
now making me feel sick. Taking the bundle of paperwork from the agent
who was now handing it to over me, I had to excuse myself before my
legs actually buckled. Closing the door behind me I couldn' t even find
the words to tell my husband what was going on. I rushed to the back of
the house and went out to the back yard where 1 wanted a minute to
compose myself and process the information I had just been told. Robbie
followed behind me but the stillness in my eyes convinced him to give
me that moment to compile my emotions.
A few moments later and I was ready to talk. Collapsing into his arms
with such anguish, he just held me until my sobs subsided and I was able
to tell him what actually happened. Starting with an apology, I began to
tell him how I was so sorry but my troubled past has come back to plague
our simply sweet lives and was just about to turn it all upside down. He
was so understanding from the beginning of all this, telling me that he
will always be behind every choice that 1 make in mending the sorrows of
my tormenting past and there he has been through all of the thick and
thins.
Deciding to call the lawyers on the victim suit provided for me was a
big decision but one I had to do to seek the unanswered questions from
my battered heart. The two women at the firm that I spoke to treated me
so wonderfully, like long term friends they counseled me not only in the
terms of a lawsuit towards Jeffrey but also in the matters of being
emotionally and sexually abused. I chose to proceed with the lawsuit at
least to make a statement to a man that tried to make a degrading
statement about me so long ago. Now it was my turn, I had the choice to
turn the tables on him hoping he would feel embarrassed and in the
spotlight for everyone' s entertainment where lie had kept me for so many
years.
Winning my lawsuit against him was not enough to heal old wounds, I
never got the chance to stand up in front of a jury and tell them how
much pain I had endured and still endure throughout the many nightmares
I face when darkness hits and the silence of the sleeping household fills
my head with pictures of reliving my past with him or the others he sent
me too. Or did I even get to hear him confess his guilt and suffer the way
I did locked in confinement for many years? No, instead I got to see a.
picture of Jeffrey with his anus around a very youthful looking teenager,
if even that, parading the streets of New York, the very way he had with
me and so many other girls long before.
As if it were a public display intended for not only his many victims to
see but also a spectacle for the public justice system, it was bold show of
insolence laughing in our faces while we all sat by not being able to do
anything to help these young girls from the streets still suffering his
perverted afflictions. Not much longer there was another story on Jeffrey
I saw in the papers of him and Prince Andrew having a stroll together in
Central Park. It instantly sparked my concerns for other girls in the very
same position I was in so long ago and he was obviously up to the same
old tricks, I had to do something now. Not being able to sit by any longer
137
138
17 Copyright Protected Material - 0 Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDEN' 17AL GIUFFRE004270 CONFIDENTIAL GIUF1RE004271
with the knowledge of being able to help out in some way. I had to tell
my story no matter how shameful it was to even speak about. Putting my
shame aside I had to derive every bit of courage I could sustain and now I
am ready to tell it. The hardest lesson T had failed at learning until later
on in my life became my strength, the belief in my inner voice and the
ability to speak up. I do have a voice and now the world is going to hear
it in my whispered cries for justice. Swept away by a surge of media with
one phone call I sent Jeffrey' s publicist into frenzy. Not to mention the
release of the photos showing the first night that Prince Andrew and I
shared together that I so happened to unveil for the public to see.
I spent too much of my life going out of my mind waiting for the
rescue that never came until it was too late and then the scars were
already imbedded deeply within. Thankfully I am now free from the
struggles that nearly destroyed the love inside of my heart. I only wish it
could be the same for the other victims, not just of Jeffrey' s inflictions
but every person who has ever suffered at the hands of another.
I' m here to tell you from my own experience that the moon is yours if
that' s what you want, all you have to do is stand up and take it. If some
girl off the streets of Florida, like me, can stand up against the tyrants that
nm the deep pockets of our world, than anyone can. Just like I needed to
believe that someone stood up for me once like Robbie did long ago, I
now stand up for us. For all of us girls, the ones who are still on the
streets and think they don' t deserve better or it' s an unachievable dream
to be entitled to more out of life. For all of the beautiful girls who don' t
see beyond they' re outside appearance. For all the girls still trapped in
enslavement and unable to get out of the abuse that holds them down. But
most of all, I stand up for every girls belief in love, because it is the very
savior of my spirit and soul.
The End
Written and Illustrated by Virginia Roberts
139
140
Material
CI Cap— Sht Protected Material _
Copyright Protected
GIUFFRL004273
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFF8004272 CONFIDL'NTIAL

141
Copyright Proroctcd M—
CONFIDLN7'IAL
ml
GIUFFRF004274
