790

or created under the laws of a third coun-
try.

[12] In Dole Food, the Supreme Court
held “that only direct ownership of a ma-
jority of shares by the foreign state satis-
fies the statutory requirement” outlined in
§ 1608(b). 538 U.S. at 474, 123 S.Ct. 1655.
Accordingly, the Kingdom of Saudi Ara-
bia’s ownership of NCB must be direct for
NCB to enjoy immunity under the FSIA.
That is, NCB will not be deemed an instru-
mentality of the Kingdom if the PIF, its
majority owner, is determined to be an
agency, instrumentality, or organ of the
Kingdom. See § 16030o)(2) Gtating agen-
cy or instrumentality is entity whose ma-
jority ownership interest is held by either
the foreign state or a political subdivision
thereof); Filler v. Hanvit Bank, 378 F.3d
213 (2d Cir.2004) (holding an organ’s own-
ership of two banks did not, in turn, make
the banks organs or instrumentalities of
foreign state); see also In re Ski Train
Fire in Kaprun, Austria, 198 F.Supp.2d
420, 426 (S.D.N.Y.2002) (holding ski resort
owner, which was owned in part by instru-
mentality of Austrian government, was not
instrumentality because it was not owned
directly by the state or a subdivision there-
of); Hyatt Corp. v. Stanton, 945 F.Supp.
675, 688 (S.D.N.Y.1996) (concluding “that
corporations a majority of whose shares
are owned by agencies or instrumentalities
of foreign states are not themselves agen-
cies or instrumentalities”). Thus, NCB
must demonstrate that the PIF is the
equivalent of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
or a political subdivision thereof.

The PIF was established by Royal De-
cree with the sole function of “financing

. investments in productive projects of
a commercial nature whether they belong
to the Government or the industrial lend-
ing institutions connected to it or to its
public corporations and whether these
projects are undertaken independently or

349 FEDERAL SUPPLEMENT, 2d SERIES

in partnership between these administra-
tive parties and private institutions.” PIF
Charter 12, at Berger Aff. Ex. 4B (“PIF
Charter”); Affidavit of Abdallah Bin Ha-
mad Al-Wohaibi 13, the Director of the
Legal Department of the Ministry of Fi-
nance, at Berger Aff. Ex. 4 (“Al-Wohaibi
Aff.”). Its board of directors are all Saudi
officials named in its charter, its employ-
ees are civil servants, and the Ministry of
Finance is responsible for its costs. Jd.
114, 8, 10; see also PIF Charter 114, 7.
Its board must submit an annual report to
Saudi Arabia’s Council of Ministers sum-
marizing its financial position and major
operations. Al-Wohaibi Aff. 110. It has
no separate legal status from the Ministry
of Finance. /d. 14. The PIF holds shares
of corporations and operational assets,
“generally ... on behalf of the Ministry of
Finance.” Jd. 19. It may be sued as a
department of the Ministry of Finance,
and as such, the Ministry of Finance
would be named as the defendant. Jd.
112. It funds investments on behalf of
the Kingdom and it provides financing
terms for projects that commercial lenders
do not. Id. 15; Supplemental Al-Wohaibi
Aff. 118-10 (hereinafter “Supp. Al-Wohai-
bi Aff.”).

a. Status of the PIF

In Filler v. Hanvit Bank, a case with
facts very similar to those presented here,
the Second Circuit reiterated Dole Food’s
requirement of direct ownership for instru-
mentality status. Two defendants were
commercial banks majority-owned by the
Korean Deposit Insurance Corporation
(““KDIC”), a “governmental institution”
run by the Korean Ministry of Finance
and the Economy of the Republic of Ko-
rea. Filler, 378 F.3d at 215-16. In deter-
mining if KDIC was an organ of Korea,
the court considered several factors:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017855
