4.2.12
WC: 191694

Part I: From Brooklyn to Cambridge (with stops in New Haven and Washington)

Chapter 1: Born and religiously educated in Brooklyn

The doctor told my pregnant and anxious mother that she would give birth “first in September.”
So when I was born on September 1, 1938, my mother thought the doctor was a genius. I was
the first person in the history of my family to be born in a hospital. My maternal grandfather, an
immigrant from Poland, wanted me to be born at home, because in Poland, there were rumors
that Jewish babies were switched with Polish babies. To prevent this from happening to his
grandchild, he stood guard over me at the baby room. Nevertheless, when I started to misbehave
early in my life, he was convinced that the switch had taken place, despite me being—in my
paternal grandmother’s words—“the spittin’ image” of my father. (I was well into my adult life
before I realized that I was much more like my mother in ways other than physical resemblance.)

I was born in the Williamsberg neighborhood of Brooklyn, where both of my parents had lived
most of their lives, having moved as youngsters from the lower East Side of Manhattan where
they were born to Orthodox Jewish parents who had emigrated from Poland at the end of the 19
and beginning of the 20 Century. When my mother was pregnant with my brother Nathan, who
is three and a half years younger than me, we moved to the Boro Park neighborhood of Brooklyn
where I grew up and where my parents remained until their deaths.

Boro Park is unique among American Jewish neighborhoods in that it has always been Jewish.
Unlike the neighborhoods of Manhattan—such as the Lower East side and Harlem, which have
had changing ethnic populations—Boro Park has always been, and remains, dominantly Jewish.
The first occupants of the small tract houses built near the beginning of the twentieth century of
the site of rural farms were Jewish immigrants seeking to escape from the crowded ghettos of
Manhattan and later Williamsberg. The current occupants of the modern multi-dwelling units are
Chasidic Jews who have moved from Crown Heights and Williamsberg seeking to recreate the
shtetles of Eastern Europe.

When I lived in Boro Park during the 1940s and 1950s, it was a modern Orthodox community of
second generation Jews whose grandparents had emigrated mostly from Poland and Russia during
the late 19 and early 20 centuries. Following the end of World War II, some displaced persons
who had survived the Holocaust moved into the neighborhood.

My parents reached adulthood in Williamsberg during the peek of the Great Depression. My
mother Claire had been a very good student at Eastern District High School and at the age of 16
enrolled at City College in the fall of 1929—the first in the history of her family to attend college.
She was forced to leave before the end of the first semester by her father’s deteriorating economic
situation. She went to work as a bookkeeper, earning $12 a week.

My father, who was not a good student, attended a Yeshiva high school in Williamsberg. It was
called Torah V’Daas—ttranslated as Bible and Knowledge. He began to work during high school
and never attended college.

13

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017100
