orn bp WN eE

NNNNNNF RF RP RRP RRP RR
WO PWNF OW DAAIMDUOBWNHEP OW

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8

NNNNNNFRP RPP REPRE RPE
OpWNOrFowvaowrAtonauwrsbs WNFH OW

INO,
Who is Cara Holmes?
Who is who?
Cara or Cara, C-a-r-a, Holmes?
To the best of my recollection, she was a
former FB] agent or maybe IRS agent. 1 don't know.
She was a former federal agent.
Q. Did you hire her to work for you?
A. It was either IRS or FBI.
Q. Did you hire her to work for you?
A. Yes, ] hired her at the suggestion of Ken

POPO >

Q. For what purpose?

A. To work in the group that he was overseeing.

Q. So what did she do for RRA while she was
there?

A. 1 don't remember.

Q. Did you ever mention her to your potential
investors from the Clockwork group?

eee

Sop ps
OBWNHE DODO DIDO A WHE OW DMYNHOSWNE

te pes ps po

sts SSS aU ai acre Sn eA i ti ESN eS US RR aR Maat atte ea atta uaaneeeme eR a

case or any communications --

] may have.

Do you recall when that --

] may have.

Do you recal] when that may have happened?

] do not.

Do you recall the first time you looked at

the flight manifest to which you referenced earlier?
A. Prior to the investors coming in. ] don't

remember the date.

Q. Did you instruct anybody, to further your
Ponzi scheme, to investigate or check into anyone
whose name was listed on the flight manifest?

A. I may have, but with this clarification. If

| instructed someone to look into something, } did it
without that person knowing that J was involved in a
Ponzi scheme or that what they were doing was illegal
and it was just to get me additional information to _
help with my sale of the fake settlements.

20 POPOS

A. It's a possibility because, as ] was 2 Q. So it was to further your --
building the Ponzi scheme, | frequently referred to 2 A. So] may have asked someone -- ] may have
the fact that we had former state and federal law 2 asked someone to get me some additional information,
enforcement working for us and on our investigative | 2 but as ] sit here today, ] don't recall ever asking
teams. It added legitimacy to-the Ponzi scheme. 2 anyone to do anything on the file that was for the
Q. Didn't you tell investors that she could 2 purpose of furthering the Ponzi scheme, other than
Pa gs = 4 Page 56

hack into a computer as part of her skills?

A. I certainly may have. | told the investors
a whole host of lies about what was going on about
with case and what people could do and did do.

Q. Did you ever personally utilize Cara Holmes'
skills in any of your cases?

A. | don’t remember.

Q. Were you handling any cases during the 2009?

A. 1 was overseeing cases in 2009, but my
involvement was mostly supervisory. | was handling
very little that was legitimate at that point in time.

Q. Were you legitimately, when I say
legitimately, were you invited into Q-task on any
particular cases that you can recall?

A. |'mcertain ] was. | don't recall one way
or the other.

Q. Do you recall if you were involved in
Mr. Epstein's case on Q-task?

A. I may very well have been, but } don't have
a specific recollection one way or the other.

Q. Do you know who invited you in?

A. J have no idea if 1] was invited in. And if
I was invited in, ] have no idea who invited me.

Q. Once you decided to use this case in your
Ponzi scheme, did you go into Q-task to look at the

Page 554

OPBWNHEF OW WAAIHAKHUBWNHPFP OCW WADE BWNEHR

scar car eccaecta-ece ar eNaaren iar actar asunder arr area
NNMNNNOFPRPRPRP EP HP RPE EE

perhaps getting me a piece of information that ]
needed.
Q. I'm going to try to refresh your
recollection as to whether or not you attended those
meeting in July of 2009. And it appears that in
between the dates of July 22nd, 2009 and July 24th,
2009, there was a number of communications through
e-mail] by and between yourself, Mr. Adler, Brad
Edwards and Ken Jenne regarding an Epstein meeting
that was going to be taking place. Do you remember
that at all?

A. | think what you are referring to, and I'm
not certain, but | think that what you are referring
to is me making sure that the file was in the
condition in which | wanted it at the time the
investors were coming in. | don't think it had
anything to do with the actual functioning of the
Epstein case. | think it had to do with my
illegitimate purpose. That's the best of my
reco]lection, but if you have documents or something
that you can show me, that would be helpful.

Q. We are not privy to all of the e-mails
because they've been alleged as privileged or work
product, so ] unfortunately can't show them to you.

But according to the privilege log between
Page 57

15 (Pages 54 to 57)

FRIEDMAN, LOMBARDI & OLSON

305-371-6677

5ed93085-0554-447f-bcdd-ca2d8fe941 df

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017504
