to run for president in 2020. The locution, “If I were president ...” was turning into,
“When I am president ...”

The top Trump donors from 2016 were in his camp, Bannon claimed: Sheldon
Adelson, the Mercers, Bernie Marcus, and Peter Thiel. In short order, and as though he
had been preparing for this move for some time, Bannon had left the White House and
quickly thrown together a rump campaign organization. The heretofore behind-the-scenes
Bannon was methodically meeting with every conservative leader in the country—doing
his best, as he put it, to “kiss the ass and pay homage to all the gray-beards.” And he was
keynoting a list of must-attend conservative events.

“Why is Steve speaking? I didn’t know he spoke,” the president remarked with
puzzlement and rising worry to aides.

Trump had been upstaged in other ways as well. He had been scheduled for a major 60
Minutes interview in September, but this was abruptly canceled after Bannon’s 60 Minutes
interview with Charlie Rose on September 11. The president’s advisers felt he shouldn’t
put himself in a position where he would be compared with Bannon. The worry among
staffers—all of them concerned that Trump’s rambling and his alarming repetitions (the
same sentences delivered with the same expressions minutes apart) had significantly
increased, and that his ability to stay focused, never great, had notably declined—was that
he was likely to suffer by such a comparison. Instead, the interview with Trump was
offered to Sean Hannity—with a preview of the questions.

Bannon was also taking the Breitbart opposition research group—the same forensic
accountant types who had put together the damning Clinton Cash revelations—and
focusing it on what he characterized as the “political elites.” This was a catchall list of
enemies that included as many Republicans as Democrats.

Most of all, Bannon was focused on fielding candidates for 2018. While the president
had repeatedly threatened to support primary challenges against his enemies, in the end,
with his aggressive head start, it was Bannon who would be leading these challenges. It
was Bannon spreading fear in the Republican Party, not Trump. Indeed, Bannon was
willing to pick outré if not whacky candidates—including former Staten Island
congressman Michael Grimm, who had done a stint in federal prison—to demonstrate, as
he had demonstrated with Trump, the scale, artfulness, and menace of Bannon-style
politics. Although the Republicans in the 2018 congressional races were looking,
according to Bannon’s numbers, at a 15-point deficit, it was Bannon’s belief that the more
extreme the right-wing challenge appeared, the more likely the Democrats would field
left-wing nutters even less electable than right-wing nutters. The disruption had just
begun.

Trump, in Bannon’s view, was a chapter, or even a detour, in the Trump revolution,
which had always been about weaknesses in the two major parties. The Trump presidency

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020118
