synergistically to shed new light on the
human mind? In the Fall of 2004, we
established an ongoing network of more
than a dozen scholars unbounded by
disciplinary precincts, geographical
borders, or methodological perspectives
to set aside antagonisms that had grown
up between science and humanities in
order to explore this question. These
Network scholars hail from disciplines
as disparate as psychology, neurology,
theology, statistics, philosophy, internal
medicine, anthropology, and sociology.
Each of these scholars was well known
in their own field and were busy with
other obligations, but it was the
opportunity to achieve a deeper, more
comprehensive discussion of the human
mind that made it worth the time and
effort it required to be part of the
Network.

Although various members of the
Network interact on a daily or weekly
basis, the entire Network convenes twice
annually for a four-day retreat to discuss
each other’s research, to critique each
other and to learn from one other.
Scientific analyses characterized by
rigorous experimental designs and data
analytic strategies are interlaced with
rich philosophical, theological, and
historical analyses of the same questions
about invisible forces that act on us all.
The dialogue between the Network
scientists and the scholars from the
humanities and theology is bidirectional.
For instance, the beliefs and behavior
described in the humanities and theology
are rich in hypotheses that can now be
tested empirically, and the measures and
methods of the behavioral sciences and
neurosciences now permit rigorous
investigation of some of these
hypotheses. Each of the Network
members brings a unique perspective to
the study of the human mind, and the

provocative story of the mind that is
emerging from the collective efforts of
the Network is the subject of this book.

The Network is unconventional
in other ways, as well. Traditionally,
scientists and scholars work together to
achieve a common understanding and a
consensus position. We quickly learned
that we did not need to come to a
consensus to benefit tremendously from
the dialogue on the capacity and
motivation for the ubiquitous human
quest for sociality and spirituality. For
instance, there is no consensus within
the Network on whether there is a God,
and we do not seek here to provide the
final word on what science and the
humanities each have to say to the other
about the human mind. Instead, our
purpose is to illustrate the possibility and
importance of engaging others whose
views we may not share in a serious
dialogue on such topics. Among the
lessons we as a Network have learned
are:

1. that some questions about human
nature and our social and
spiritual aspirations have been
asked by humankind for
thousands of years. Accordingly,
there may be more to be gained
from engaging in a collaborative
process of thinking about these
questions than from demanding
simple and immediate answers.
We discuss what we see as
possible answers to questions
about our nature and strivings,
but the value in stating these
positions is to have clear
positions from which to move
thinking and research forward.
Thus, our purpose in writing this
book is to articulate ideas to be
shaped and refined, not to
provide the final word.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021255
