328 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

has position, velocity and spin. Why can it not have more hidden
information that tells it when to decay? Perhaps particles are composed
of sub-particles that cause the weird quantum effects we see.

We have discovered sub-particles — quarks and the like — but more
than a hundred years of experimentation have gradually ruled out any
form of theory explaining how these random events can be governed
by the properties of the particle. The collapse of the wave function just
seems to happen randomly.

There is one explanation for quantum mechanics that avoids
the measurement problem altogether but it is even stranger than the
Copenhagen interpretation: ‘the many worlds’ view. The idea was first
put forward by Hugh Everett in 1957, and it claims measurements are
never made, there is never a collapse of the wave function, and every
wave continues to exist. We just can't see them all. There is a version of
me that has seen a live cat and another in a parallel universe that saw a
dead one. The two versions of me are also in superposition, just like the
cat, so there are an infinity of parallel universes tracking every possible
option.

The only measurable consequence of this ‘many worlds’ idea is the
existence of enormously enjoyable science fiction plots and much poking
of fun between the many worlds camp, and the no-many-worlds camp.
The single-worlds proponents point out the whole idea is untestable and
just plain odd. For example, each choice we make, every reflection and
any quantum process generates a new branch in the Universe. This is a
vast amount of information to track and puts us back in a position where
moral choices have no consequence. Every decision I make spawns a
Universe where I made a different choice.

For a humorous take on this, you can visit a website and buy your
own Universe for $2.99. You pose a question based on the throw of a die,
let’s say, one to three I go to work today and, four to six, I take a sick day.
The website generates a quantum random number using an experimental
setup at a laboratory in California. You can make your choice based on
this quantum random number in the certain knowledge that another
Universe springs into existence where you made the alternate choice, so
somewhere you are not taking a sick day after all, and can be found hard
at work at your desk.

There is one more explanation for quantum measurement, proposed
by Roger Penrose. He proposes gravity comes to the rescue. Once enough
particles are involved in the superposition of states, the curvature in
space time becomes great enough to force a measurement event. In
his view, a measuring instrument is simply an amplifier which brings a

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016018
