David O. Russell >
_-- and Spike Jones 3

ar

Peggy Siegal and
Catherine Martin

his was the year absolutely no one could predict Best

Picture for the 86th Academy Awards: not even me, the

Oscar witch. This made directors Steve McQueen,
Alfonso Cuaron and David O. Russell very crazy. After
months of screenings, press conferences, lunches, and
parties, publicists and bloggers had to look these three wise
men in the eye and say, “We don’t have a clue.’

Then came the slogan, “It’s time.” That was
Fox Searchlight’s last suggestion on 12 Years
a Slave advertisements that subliminally
registered in the hearts and minds of voters
in the closing days of the studio's low-key
campaign.

“It’s time.” So simple. Says it all. Just like
the mantra “Find your voice” that marketing
honcho Harvey Weinstein came up with
three years ago, which drove The King’s Speech
toa win.

This is how you win an Oscar. You pinpoint
and connect an exact emotion on the screen to
an exact emotion that moves 6,000 voters who
are mostly very smart white middle-aged guys.

On Oscar night, host Ellen DeGeneres joked
to 43 million viewers, “Possibility number one:
12 Years a Slave wins Best Picture. Possibility
number two: You're all racists,’ answering
the question three hours before the win was
announced. DeGeneres then gifted sponsor

54 | AVENUE MAGAZINE « APRIL 2012

Samsung with the world’s most famous selfie
and tipped a pizza delivery guy $1,000.

The gripping 12 Years a Slave won Best
Picture, putting Steve McQueen in the history
books as the first black director, who is also
British, to win an Oscar.

It took the star power of white heartthrob
Brad Pitt to get the film financed. Taking
the small but heroic role as the slave’s savior,
Brad then took a backseat by shooting WWII
film, Fury in England, leaving the promotion
to others.

Steve McQueen’s muse Michael Fassbender,
who portrayed a sadistic plantation owner,
announced he would not campaign. McQueen,
Chiwetel Ejiofor and an unknown supporting
actress, Lupita Nyong’o, were left with the
herculean task of selling a film about slavery that
was guaranteed to embarrass every American.
This is why their win was so poignant.

Warner Bros? wildly popular Gravity had

Suki Waterhouse
and Bradley
Cooper

skyrocketed to $1 billion globally at the box
office. This technical game changer propelled
Sandra Bullock into outer space with $70
million of backend profits tucked into her
space panties. The beloved thriller landed
triumphantly with seven Oscars. Alfonso
Cuarén, who slaved for four years to create
his masterpiece, won two statues for directing
and editing and became the first Latino
director to win. Although Gravity’s producer
David Heyman did not strike gold, this film
was one hell of a second act after producing
all those Harry Potter films.

In the past four years, David O. Russell
has been a serious contender with 25 total
nominations for his last three films. Hilarious
and astute American Hustle garnered 10
nominations, but no wins this year.

The four acting categories were easy to
predict. Cate Blanchett wowed the minute
Blue Jasmine was released in July. This
instantaneous phenomenon is known as the
“Colin-Firth-Daniel-Day-Lewis slam dunk”

In November, beautiful darling Jared Leto
stole everybody's hearts dressed as a woman
in Dallas Buyers Club. His long hair, penchant
for 90s grunge, and rock band 30 Seconds to
Mars, made him another instant winner.

Matthew McConaughey’s career renaissance
became “McConaissance.” Mud, Dallas Buyer’s
Club, Wolf of Wall Street, and finally HBO's

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010717

© COPYRIGHT 2013 STARTRAKSPHOTO.COM AND BFANYC.COM
