Eurobond premium required for fiscal slippage risk

We expect large and regular sovereign eurobond issuance going forward to support FX
reserves and domestic liquidity but weigh on regional bond spreads if risk appetite does
not hold up or fiscal slips. EMBIG index inclusion is unlikely, in our view. Saudi Arabia
CDS premium to Qatar and likely larger issuance size suggests Saudi External Debt
(EXD) is likely to be issued at a premium to Qatar.

Saudi Arabia international bond issuance latest in wave of Gulf supply

Local press suggests that Saudi Arabia is gearing up for a large international bond
issuance program (USS10-15bn issuance target this year), which, if confirmed (the
government neither confirmed nor denied , should add to the sizeable sovereign bond
supply pipeline this year. So far, we have seen USS$17.1bn in gross and net supply from
the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries. Assuming Saudi Arabia issues US$15bn
and accounting for planned issuance from Dubai and Bahrain and excluding Kuwait, the
rest of this year should see a further US$16.5bn in gross issuance and US$16.1bn in net
issuance. This would bring the total gross and net GCC sovereign bond issuance to
US$33.6bn and US$33.2bn this year respectively.

Seminal potential bond issuance has multi-pronged implications

If confirmed, this could be a seminal event and mark the first time for the Saudi
government to issue external bonds. It would allow for participation of foreign investors
as domestic debt is being sold to Saudi banks and funds. External issuance should
diversify funding sources, lock in still low interest rates, support SAMA's Fx reserves and
support domestic liquidity; the latter two macro variables have weakened this year.
External issuance would also imply the presence of an underlying asset that could
theoretically trigger CDS contracts, as opposed to the current situation.

Investment grade status to be retained despite likely further rating cuts

A prolonged oil price downturn is likely to continue to put downward pressure on Saudi
Arabia’s credit rating in the medium-term. On average, the GCC has benefited from
three notch rating upgrades over the period 2002-10 prior to the start of the Arab
Spring. Saudi Arabia was upgraded six times, from Baa3 to Aa3, by Moody's over the
period starting from 1999, while it was upgraded two and three notches by S&P and
Fitch over the period starting from 2003/2004 respectively. Moody’s has thus in the
past preserved Saudi Arabia’s investment grade rating at the bottom of the cycle, as
government debt to GDP stood at 103% of GDP and SAMA’s foreign assets at US$17bn
(10% of GDP) in 1999.

EMBIG Index inclusion is unlikely
EMBIG index inclusion is unlikely, in our view. Estimated 2013 (US$25,140) and three-

year rolling GNI per capita (US$23,090) data likely suggests Saudi Arabia does not meet
EMBIG income index inclusion criteria, in our view. Saudi Arabia would however likely be
eligible for Barclays EM Hard Currency Aggregate Index, based on its IMF classification
as a non-advanced country (noting that the index provider has moved away from solely
using rating for EM country classification). This suggests that Saudi policy-makers need
to articulate a comprehensive, timely and credible medium-term fiscal policy to
facilitate wide take-up from domestic, regional and international investors, in our view.

Pricing matters

Saudi Arabia CDS premium to Qatar, relative credit metrics and likely larger planned
issuance size suggests Saudi EXD is likely to be issued at a premium to Qatar, in our
view. The closest regional peers to Saudi Arabia (A1/A-/AA-) are likely Qatar (Aa2/AA/AA)
and Abu Dhabi (Aa2/AA/AA). Qatar’s existing external debt curve makes it a potentially

34 GEMs Paper #26 | 30 June 2016 3S Merrill Lynch

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016144
