James PATTERSON

D: Well, here’s the thin

y: ...and the little steps that things progressed?
going to sit down, w

D: Right.

\V: Well, I went and I wouldn't take off my panties at first. And he did to you is a cri
then he got me to get naked. Then he got me to let him rub me. V: Wou
Then he got me to let him stick his fingers in me. Then he got | be nie wher a
me to let him go down on me. Then, um—that was pretty D: Ifhe mn od a

ere he bent me over V: I didn’t say that, or ai

much the gist of it, except this one time, wh

the table and put himself in me. Without my
flipped out. I'm sorry, I didn’t ask you, but I don't count that as D: That, that is a crim
’ e.

me having sex with him.... Cause | just told you that I never V: I don’t want my f
am

permission. And I is about, like, my hip

had sex with him. I never did. Even though, I don’t know what doesn’t know any of t
youd consider that. But he then—lI go, “What are you doing?” i for two years, or how
He goes, “Oh, I just wanted [redacted] to see this.” | thinks I made phone

D: Okay. Let me back you up. When you were completely naked, 1 ing my [unintelligibl
the same things happened? You went in, you massaged him? j 4 know anything.

V: Sometimes I didn't even do that. Sometimes he just asked me i q D: Well, you're an adull
to take off my clothes and—he’d have to do work, he'd be | 4 dispe with this inte
sitting at his desk or something, and I'd just be naked there, q 4 Becile the hest eahese
watching television or reading a book, but I'd be naked. Or, 7 a V: ’Cause Jeffrey's gonn:
um, sometimes he wanted to just watch TV or read, andhed —=# 4 He’s gonna find—he’s
lay in his bed and ask me to take my clothes off and lay with , 4 3 I'm not safe now. You:
him. And that’s it. Not touch him or anything... Sometimes D: He is not this person t
he'd just invite me over for breakfast, for dinner, or just to » V: Well—
use the swimming pool, and I'd get paid for that, too. I'd get 4 4 D: Why do you say you're
paid just to hang out with him. That's it. And if the money i | before?

wasn't there, I wouldn't have ever been in that house. ; q i) Well, I've heard himm
D: Okay. When he started to touch you— ; yeah, Of course.
V: Lhave a question. Before I say anything else. Um, is there @ 5 ’ D: You're gonna die? You’
possibility that ['m gonna have to go to court or anything? | ag Allithe above! But that

Like, that’s a possibility, right? D: Who's he talking to?

44

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019160
