DAVE GALLO

David Gallo is an American oceanographer and Director

of Special Projects at the Woods Hole Oceanographic

Institution—a preeminent, globally recognized scientific

laboratory. For more than 25 years, Dr. Gallo has been at the

forefront of ocean exploration, participating in and being

witness to the development of new technologies and scientific

discoveries that shape our view of planet earth. He has been

described by TED Conferences as “an enthusiastic ambassador

between the sea and those of us on dry land.” With more than

8 million views his TED presentation “Underwater

Astonishments” is among the top 5 TED Talks viewed to date.
David has participated in expeditions to all of

the world’s oceans and was one of the first scientists to

use a combination of robots and submarines to explore

the deep seafloor. Most recently he co-led an expedition

to create the first detailed and comprehensive map of the

RMS Titanic and he co-led the successful international

effort to locate the remains of Air France flight 447.

Dr. Gallo is currently active in planning a series of

challenging expeditions and is encouraging the development
of new technologies for ocean exploration. He is a member
of James Cameron’s Deep Ocean Task Force and the

XPrize Ocean Advisory Board. Almost every expedition

into the deep provides results that are often surprising,
sometimes startling and in many cases revolutionary.

David is becoming increasingly outspoken about
the relationship between humanity and the sea. He feels
strongly that instead of taking the oceans for granted we need
to recognize the oceans critical role in providing the air we
breath, the water we drink, and the food we eat. At the same
time, Dr. Gallo feels that human activity has impacted the
ocean on a global scale and with significant consequences.
The oceans hold the clues to our past and the key to our future
yet they remain mostly unexplored and poorly understood.

Dr. Gallo is personally committed to conveying
the excitement and importance of ocean exploration to the

public-at-large. He has lectured internationally to audiences
ranging from children to CEO’s with the goal of awakening
the little bit of Jacques Cousteau and Jules Vernes that resides
in each of us. He has given more than 10 TED and TEDx
presentations and has appeared in numerous documentaries
(Discovery Channel, History Channel, National Geographic)
and has been featured on numerous televised news programs
(Weather Channel , PBS Need to Know, MSNBC Ed Show,
and NBC Today show).

In recognition of his efforts in exploration and science
communications, David was recently elected a fellow of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science. He
is a National Fellow of the Explorer’s Club, a member of the
American Geophysical Union, and active on several boards
including the Marine Environmental Research Institute, the
One World One Ocean Campaign, and the Terramar Project.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017538
