especiaily as you seemed so peaceful happy and smiley ,getting yourself in shape and truly enjoying your
family time. etc. however the situation in your family office is unresolved. I am aware that brad starts
monday howver, two last days of the year madness. timber.deal not complete no jpm,acct activity no
partnership docs , old stock sales not complete , no bank doc redo. no phaidon note restructure, ., no
boat expense review. airplane same ,topco midco.etc still not finished ( trustee ), projections mixed
with fiction. , legal exp out of control. no care for admin, silly ( audit). tom conversation with joslin.
notes. debra, trustee notes. trustees hiring . bens audit. interest payable made hoopjumping last day of
year. after weeks and months. of lectures , gifts to discuss- staff. -houseproject mgmt. . I will continue
to try , I had offered ajoint call with eileen before you left. asi said before , joslin takes instructions from
eileen. he said it was made clear to him that he doesn't work for me but works for you. . I tried.

Date: Tue, Dec 29, 2015 at 7:26 AM

Subject: Fwd: leon DO NOT SEND, hand deliver.

To: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com>
Transaction complete !

. this - in spite of your collection of Elysium misfits. !!!

With Brad out of the office and unable to run his usual interference , the level of his utter incompetence
was brought front and center, he may be a step up from Eileen, but if he is , then it is not certainly not by
much, . Though you and I have spent many many hours discussing the importance of details and
mechanics. I was not shown one document re phaidon,- not one.. Brad wanted to keep it private between
he and his so called advisors however as he was out of the office during the most important
transaction of the year, I did get to spend time with joslin Joe and john, - the situation in your office is
wholly ludicrous - to summarize - the list I provided to Brad last December - things I thought were a
priority to get done after consulting with your office _ still remains virtually undone.

IT, still desperately needed- reporting flawed cumbersome and inaccurate . all done by hand as one -off
exercises , - airplane: re structure, (my only suggested priority in june ) is really ,no further ahead,
consultants up the kazoo but nothing at all done.( the office was told that i cannot even see the proposals
received without brads specific authorization ) - brad has no idea even as to what questions to ask. he
knows little of finance, is run roughshod over by almost everyone in the office. he is a little man , using
your power, to appear larger . Eileen was self aware enough to know she was over her head , that is a huge
difference. bad info is rampant ie 3 million in deductions Im told are taken for art space but on closer
examination it turns out they cannot be used at all. (ZERO benefit ) though you will be told yes they
were deducted on the return they said that is the question they get asked !  were they deducted not -
is there a benefit !!| I asked for the balance sheet and P and L for Regan arts , a basic first step in
order to check your financials. sorry we never got one? though 9.8 million invested, no p&l, nothing ,
a construction project run amok , no budget, the coo fired after only 3 months. , no clue. I can add that
artspace financials are also a total mess.

As your friend and in order toturn the page. I will try to be constructive

The following is a list of things I think would be in your interest to get done asap .but definitely not by

me.

isuggest you form new grats. , hire a high level tax partner. use your trading accounts as they remain
the paramount requirement 16 months after i emailed to you their importance. , I suggest you consider
having the 49percent of phaidon merged into artspance and have Richard buy artspace. re-do bank

loans. no need to pay interest at higher rates on boat or plane. . as Richard is now no longer trustee. re-
do will, make suydam executor , with Barry, and john as back up. pay | million a year for executor role.
get rid of Judy Black trust, deal with gifts and their tax returns, . review amounts to kids at fixed ages. put
more protections in for Alex and Victoria. , distribute some money to kids let them make decisions. ,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023223
