274 Teaching Minds

education except the one promoting more testing. They certainly do
invest in that.

So we are left with appealing to people who actually care about
kids and their education. Money isn’t and shouldn’t be the allure here.
This means that the saviors of education will have to be wealthy indi-
viduals or foundations started by wealthy individuals.

The health sciences curriculum that we built was funded by the
Ewing Kauffman Foundation. We built it using our not-for-profit com-
pany, Engines for Education. I really believe that no alternative to the
nonprofit model funded by wealthy people exists. We just have to find
people who care about education. They are in short supply, and they
typically aren’t the wealthy people who make pronouncements about
education, but Iam hopeful that they are out there.

I wouldn’t mind being wrong about anything I have said here. The
federal government could get taken over by people who actually care
about kids and not votes.

How do we convince schools to offer these curricula once they
have been developed? It won’t be easy. There aren’t that many schools
run by people who realize that the system is broken. But they do ex-
ist, however. The real problem is not so much convincing the head of
a private school or the superintendent of a school district. It is more
about convincing parents who fundamentally do not understand edu-
cation, or teachers who have taught what they have always taught and
really don’t want to learn new skills.

And, in addition, there are all those state standards. The first thing
that any school that wants to use our curriculum has to do is to see
how they can map what we will teach into their state’s standards. If
the state standards specify 2 years of algebra, we are out of luck. If
they have vague science standards, we are in better shape. Either way,
the state standards, passed by all those brilliant state legislatures that
know all there is to know about what should be taught in high school,
inhibit real change in the system.

So we need motivated heads of schools or school systems, in states
that have flexible standards, where parents who hold views about why
school was better in their day do not have to be listened to. Do these
exist?

Sure.

The last issue is training teachers to mentor. We do this by having
teachers be students in a curriculum mentored by others who have
experience in that curriculum. Mentoring does not come naturally to

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023960
