the agency. Ergo, we might take this to mean that the FBI secretly had a person on the payroll who used his

or her non-FBI credentials to interact in some capacity with the Trump campaign.

This would amount to spying, and it is hugely disconcerting. It would also be a major escalation from the
electronic surveillance we already knew about, which was bad enough. Obama political appointees
rampantly “unmasked” Trump campaign officials to monitor their conversations, while the FBI played dirty
with its surveillance warrant against Carter Page, failing to tell the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court
that its supporting information came from the Hillary Clinton campaign. Now we find it may have also been

rolling out human intelligence, John Le Carré style, to infiltrate the Trump campaign.

Which would lead to another big question for the FBI: When? The bureau has been doggedly sticking with
its story that a tip in July 2016 about the drunken ramblings of George Papadopoulos launched its
counterintelligence probe. Still, the players in this affair—the FBI, former Director Jim Comey, the Steele
dossier authors—have been suspiciously vague on the key moments leading up to that launch date. When
precisely was the Steele dossier delivered to the FBI? When precisely did the Papadopoulos information

come in?

And to the point, when precisely was this human source operating? Because if it was prior to that infamous
Papadopoulos tip, then the FBI isn’t being straight. It would mean the bureau was spying on the Trump
campaign prior to that moment. And that in turn would mean that the FBI had been spurred to act on the

basis of something other than a junior campaign aide’s loose lips.

We also know that among the Justice Department’s stated reasons for not complying with the Nunes
subpoena was its worry that to do so might damage international relationships. This suggests the “source”
may be overseas, have ties to foreign intelligence, or both. That’s notable, given the highly suspicious role
foreigners have played in this escapade. It was an Australian diplomat who reported the Papadopoulos
conversation. Dossier author Christopher Steele is British, used to work for MI6, and retains ties to that spy
agency as well as to a network of former spooks. It was a former British diplomat who tipped off Sen. John

McCain to the dossier. How this “top secret” source fits into this puzzle could matter deeply.

I believe I know the name of the informant, but my intelligence sources did not provide it to me and refuse to
confirm it. It would therefore be irresponsible to publish it. But what is clear is that we’ve barely scratched
the surface of the FBI’s 2016 behavior, and the country will never get the straight story until President
Trump moves to declassify everything possible. It’s time to rip off the Band-Aid.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020820
