\TTERSON

.o was arrested for hiding more
of jewelry.

+ people involved in Rothstein’s
enced.

sration with the feds, his was the
which all the victims recovered
in was put into a witness protec-
fifty-year sentence anonymously,

m.

srshowitz arrived at Shriver Hall,
s University, in Baltimore, to talk

so obvious,” he said. “There has

k, a group of women—students
opkins Feminists—stood up in
‘ith duct tape over their mouths,
d out of the hall.

n read.

: student paper asked Dershowitz ~
Ys victims. Wasn't it true that Der q
those victims was “asking for it?” 4g
showitz replied. “I have an obliga- a
‘ovide a full and zealous defense t0

all the things you had just listed, F

» iG
und incompetent as counsel.” ~

272

Fittay Ricu

He asked the reporter, “Would any defense lawyer not look
on the websites, look on social networks, find out what the
woman who was accusing my client was doing? We were able to
disprove many of the charges, just like how I was able to dis-
prove the charges against me. Falsely charging somebody with
rape is a heinous thing to do. First of all, it creates horrors for the
person who has been falsely accused. Second, it so hurts real
rape victims because it makes it clear that some women lie for
money. Our country, unlike others, requires that everybody be
detended, and I’m going to continue to do that whether my cli-
ents are guilty or innocent. Let me tell you, most of my clients
have been guilty. They deserve a zealous defense just as anybody
else. I'm very proud of what I did for Jeffrey Epstein. If people
don't like the fact that I got a ‘good deal, that’s the job I do.”

The suits and countersuits Paul Cassell, Bradley Edwards, and
Dershowitz filed against each other dragged on into the spring of
2016— reaching a crescendo with Dershowitz’s argument about
the plot to blackmail Les Wexner. But on April 8, all the parties
involved agreed to settle, issuing a joint statement that read:
“Edwards and Cassell acknowledge that it was a mistake to have
filed sexual misconduct accusations against Dershowitz; and the
sexual misconduct accusations made in all public filings (includ-
ing all exhibits) are hereby withdrawn. Dershowitz also with-
draws his accusations that Edwards and Cassell acted

2 unethically. Neither Edwards, Cassell, nor Dershowitz have any
- intention of repeating the allegations against one another”
q Dershowitz also hired former FBI director Louis J. Freeh to do
_ 4n independent investigation. Freeh concluded that the evidence

273

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022170
