The mere fact that an official has a personal immunity from prosecution does not bar the
prosecution from alleging and proving his complicity as part of a case against persons who
have no such immunity.

It would not be fair “to the defendants ... to blunt the sweep of the evidence artificially by
excluding one person, however prominent and important, while identifying all others.” The
Jaworski filing acknowledged that naming an incumbent president as an unindicted criminal
co-conspirator may cause the public anguish of a cloud over the presidency. But “in the
public marketplace of ideas” there is little reason to fear that malicious charges against a
president “will receive credit they do not deserve.”

Notably, the United States made no mention of the OLC Dixon memo in its filing in the
Supreme Court other than by implication: The filing says that the Department of Justice
agrees that the Constitution does not bar indictment of a president, perhaps reading the
Dixon OLC memo as merely a statement of policy. What is striking is that the 2000 OLC
memo treats the 1973 Dixon memo as an important precedent but not the more substantial,
more careful subsequent filing in the U.S. Supreme Court.

The Supreme Court did not answer Nixon’s request to expunge his inclusion as an
unindicted co-conspirator. Finding it unnecessary to answer that question in order to rule
against the president on the subpoena of the nine tapes, the court dismissed Nixon’s
companion cert petition as improvidently granted. Nixon’s resignation and pardon rendered
the remaining questions moot.

5. The May 13, 1998, Memorandum to Independent Counsel Starr. This memorandum
was written by professor Ronald Rotunda in response to an inquiry from Independent
Counsel Kenneth Starr. Rotunda concluded that

In the circumstances of this case, President Clinton is subject to indictment and criminal
prosecution, although it may be the case that he could not be imprisoned ... until after he
leaves that office.

The Rotunda memo is the least persuasive of the opinions in question. First, its status is
unclear. It says that the question was posed by Starr, but it does not note whether Rotunda,
who may have been a paid consultant, had any official governmental role. There is no
indication that the opinion underwent any review by other officials.

The opinion seems to claim too much, in my view, by suggesting that a president could be
not only indicted but actually put on trial while serving. (Rotunda does not even rule out
imprisoning a president.) There is an informal and partisan flavor to the memo that makes it
less serious than the other arguments put forth by the department.

Rotunda argues that the then-existing Independent Counsel Act contemplated that a
president could be investigated and questioned, so therefore it must follow that he can be
indicted. This is the obverse of the current argument made by some that since a president

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030205
