People worry about the scenario in which Als take over. I think something much more
amusing, in a sense, will happen first. The AI will know what you intend, and it will be
good at figuring out how to get there. I tell my car’s GPS I want to go to a particular
destination. I don’t know where the heck I am, I just follow my GPS. My children like
to remind me that once when I had a very early GPS—the kind that told you, “Turn this
way, turn that way”—we ended up on one of the piers going out into Boston Harbor.

More to the point is that there will be an AI that knows your history, and knows
that when you’re ordering dinner online you'll probably want such-and-such, or when
you email this person, you should talk to them about such-and-such. More and more, the
Als will suggest to us what we should do, and I suspect most of the time people will just
go along with that. It’s good advice—better than what you would have figured out for
yourself,

As far as the takeover scenario is concerned, you can do terrible things with
technology and you can do good things with technology. Some people will try to do
terrible things with technology, and some people will try to do good things with
technology. One of the things I like about today’s technology is the equalization it has
produced. I used to be proud that I had a better computer than anybody I knew; now we
all have the same kind of computers. We have the same smartphones, and pretty much
the same technology can be used by a decent fraction of the planet’s 7 billion people. It’s
not the case that the king’s technology is different from everybody else’s. That’s an
important advance.

The great frontier five hundred years ago was literacy. Today, it’s doing
programming of some kind. Today’s programming will be obsolete in a not very long
time. For example, people no longer learn assembly language, because computers are
better at writing assembly language than humans are, and only a small set of people need
to know the details of how language gets compiled into assembly language. A lot of
what’s being done by armies of programmers today is similarly mundane. There’s no
good reason for humans to be writing Java code or JavaScript code. We want to
automate the programming process so that what’s important goes from what the human
wants done to getting the machine, as automatically as possible, to doit. This will
increase that equalization, which is something I’m interested in. In the past, if you
wanted to write a serious piece of code, or program for something important and real, it
was a lot of work. You had to know quite a bit about software engineering, you had to
invest months of time in it, you had to hire programmers who knew this or you had to
learn it yourself. It was a big investment.

That’s not true anymore. A one-line piece of code already does something
interesting and useful. It allows a vast range of people who couldn’t make computers do
things for them, make computers do things for them. Something Id like to see is a lot of
kids around the world learn the new capabilities of knowledge-based programming and
then produce code that’s effectively as sophisticated as what anybody in the top ranks can
produce. This is within reach. We’re at the point where anybody can learn to do
knowledge-based programming, and, more important, learn to think computationally.
The actual mechanics of programming are easy now. What’s difficult is imagining things
in a computational way.

188

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016408
