The film, set on the eve of World War I, is about Sigmund Freud and Carl Jung and their patient Sabina
Spielrein, the Russian Jewess who for years remained uncredited for her influence on the development
of modern psychology.

The cast features Michael Fassbender as Jung with Keira Knightley (queen of the costume dramas) as
Spielrein. Yes, they are fully dressed in their famous sexually charged spanking scenes. This is just the
warm up to Fassbender's raw and disturbing sexual romp through lower Manhattan on Sunday night in
Shame, Jeremy Thomas's other film. Viggo Mortensen portrays Freud, Vincent Cassel is Austrian
psychoanalyst Otto Gross and newcomer Sarah Gadon is Jung's wife.

At the press conference the cast jokes about drawing from their own madness as research and
inspiration. |, on the other hand, am ina panic speeding back to Cipriani's to wheel my suitcases around
the corner to the Bauer Palladio. Looking lost, dejected and pathetically disheveled, | thank God no one
sees my fall from grace.

| eventually realize | am missing a pair of small gold and diamond earrings. Oddly, the same thing
happened to me last year during a room change. | chalk this up as the price of foolishly traveling with
real jewelry.

At the premiere of A Dangerous Method, | am stressed because | have no ticket, having given my pair to
Peter Brant and bed-robber Owen Wilson. Michael Barker and Tom Bernard escort me on the red carpet
and Marco Muller himself walks me in.

Having seen A Dangerous Method this morning, | slip out and head to the first Gucci for Woman Award
in Cinema dinner hosted by Frida Giannini in Cipriani's rustic barns previously ancient granaries, now
donning elegant white Murano glass chandeliers.

This new award recognizes outstanding female filmmakers. The jury includes Robin Wright (who heads
to Toronto next week to the premiere of Bennett Miller's Moneyball) and James Franco, also Toronto
bound with Sal about Sal Mineo, and Valeria Golino, whom | met on Rain Man.

Madonna asks for a drum roll, please, as she announces winner Jessica Chastain for Tree of Life... but
it might as well be for the 11 films Chastain has made since being discovered by Al Pacino four years ago
for Wilde Salome. Jessica is presently in The Help, The Dept, Take Shelter and Texas Killing Fields. She is
also Toronto bound with Ralph Fiennes’ Coriolanus. This Julliard graduate is following in footsteps of the
iconic Meryl Streep.

Francois-Henri Pinault, chairman of Gucci's parent company PRP, is headed to China to support their
medical and educational foundations. Pinault’s wife Salma Hayek, wearing a Gucci gown embellished
with crystals and feathers, discusses Oliver Stone's Savages, the film about Mexican drug lords that she is
currently filming in Los Angeles.

Suddenly a cake with sparklers appears for Salma's 45th—and Madonna encourages us to belt out
Happy Birthday. Singing along is Ginevra Elkann, CAA's Hylda Queally, manager Jason Weinberg and the
Brant boys, 18-year-old Petey and 15-year-old Harry.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012743
