borders, such as the illegal trafficking of people, weapons,
and drugs.‘ International corruption also undercuts good
governance and impedes USS. efforts to promote freedom
and democracy, end poverty, and combat crime and terror-
ism across the globe.’

Corruption is also bad for business. Corruption is
anti-competitive, leading to distorted prices and disadvan-
taging honest businesses that do not pay bribes. It increases
the cost of doing business globally and inflates the cost of
government contracts in developing countries.® Corruption
also introduces significant uncertainty into business trans-
actions: Contracts secured through bribery may be legally
unenforceable, and paying bribes on one contract often
results in corrupt officials making ever-increasing demands.’
Bribery has destructive effects within a business as well,
undermining employee confidence in a company’s manage-
ment and fostering a permissive atmosphere for other kinds
of corporate misconduct, such as employee self-dealing,
embezzlement,* financial fraud,? and anti-competitive
behavior.'° Bribery thus raises the risks of doing business,
putting a company’s bottom line and reputation in jeop-
ardy. Companies that pay bribes to win business ultimately
undermine their own long-term interests and the best inter-

ests of their investors.

Historical Background

Congress enacted the FCPA in 1977 after revela-
tions of widespread global corruption in the wake of the
Watergate political scandal. SEC discovered that more than
400 US. companies had paid hundreds of millions of dol-
lars in bribes to foreign government officials to secure busi-
ness overseas.'! SEC reported that companies were using
secret “slush funds” to make illegal campaign contributions
in the United States and corrupt payments to foreign offi-
cials abroad and were falsifying their corporate financial
records to conceal the payments.”

Congress viewed passage of the FCPA as critical
to stopping corporate bribery, which had tarnished the
image of US. businesses, impaired public confidence in
the financial integrity of U.S. companies, and hampered

the efficient functioning of the markets.’ As Congress

No problem does more to alienate citizens
from their political leaders and institutions,
and to undermine political stability and
economic development, than endemic
corruption among the government, political
party leaders, judges, and bureaucrats.

— USAID Anti-Corruption Strategy

recognized when it passed the FCPA, corruption imposes
enormous costs both at home and abroad, leading to mar-
ket inefficiencies and instability, sub-standard products,
and an unfair playing field for honest businesses.’* By
enacting a strong foreign bribery statute, Congress sought
to minimize these destructive effects and help companies
resist corrupt demands, while addressing the destruc-
tive foreign policy ramifications of transnational brib-
ery.’ The Act also prohibited off-the-books accounting
through provisions designed to “strengthen the accuracy
of the corporate books and records and the reliability of
the audit process which constitute the foundations of our
system of corporate disclosure.’!®

In 1988, Congress amended the FCPA to add two
affirmative defenses: (1) the local law defense; and (2) the
reasonable and bona fide promotional expense defense.”
Congress also requested that the President negotiate an
international treaty with members of the Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)
to prohibit bribery in international business transactions
by many of the United States’ major trading partners.'*
Subsequent negotiations at the OECD culminated in the
Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Officials
in International Business Transactions (Anti-Bribery
Convention), which, among other things, required parties

to make it a crime to bribe foreign officials.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022505

