After the premiere, Frida Giannini, creative director of Gucci, and Harvey Weinstein host a slightly
decadent, secret, after-party on the outside terrace at the Bauer Palazzo. The 53-year old Material Girl
brings Brahim Zaibat—her 24-year old break-dancing boyfriend—sips bellinis and sings Like a Virgin
until 4:30 a.m. to Valentino and Guy Oseary and her cast: Andrea Riseborough, Abbie Cornish, James
D'arcy and Oscar Issac, who is also in the Cannes-winner Drive.

Simultaneously, Sony Picture Classic's Michael Barker and Tom Bernard premiere Roman Polanski’s
Carnage, based on Yasmina Reza's French play God of Carnage, which played to packed houses in Paris,
London, New York and Los Angeles.

Curvaceous Kate Winslet, appearing in three films at the festival (Carnage, Mildred Pierce and
Contagion), makes her red carpet debut—whipping out her mobile phone and photographing the fans.
Fresh from fighting fires and saving lives on Richard Branson's Necker Island, she is joined by bearded co-
stars Christoph Waltz and John C. Reilly.

Polanski is in Gstaad. He remains a wanted man in the U.S., and although he avoided an extradition
charge last year, he still risks arrest in some parts of Europe. Carnage, filmed in “real time” is a 79-
minute actor's showcase set in one room in a Brooklyn apartment shot entirely in Paris.

Mid September, two years after Polanski was arrested en route to the very same Zurich Film Festival, he
will return to receive a lifetime achievement award.

At the Carnage dinner Kate talks about portraying a neurotic wife and mother who gets drunk at a
civilized sit-down and projectile vomits between two couples discussing their sons schoolyard fight. Kate
tells me the vomit was actually squashed banana, oatmeal and molasses that Roman would lick between
takes for comic relief.

Mildred Pierce's HBO gang, including Kary Antholis, director Todd Haynes and co-stars Guy Pearce and
Evan Rachel Wood are at Kate's table digesting this information.

Kate and Guy later win Emmy’s.
Friday, Sept. 2, 2011

Today is the day Cipriani's is over-booked and they are hell bent on tossing me into the canal. No queen-
size bed, nor cot, nor couch materializes. Peter Brant is renting half of the Bauer Palladio next door
because even he could not get into my oasis with all of his kids. The bed Peter promised me for tonight
has been quietly given away to Owen Wilson, who surprisingly arrives on Larry Gagosian's plane this
morning. Peter heroically rescues me by finding a suite in his hotel with double-the-height ceilings for a
gazillion Euros.

With the noon toss-out and luggage left in Cipriani's lobby, | race to the press screening of Sony Pictures
Classics and Canadian David Cronenberg's highly anticipated A Dangerous Method, produced by Jeremy
Thomas.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012742
