European rates

EUR (DE) 10-year (29 June): 1.6% (last month: 1.4%)
UBS View EUR (DE) 10-year (6-month forecast): 1.7%
¢ We believe the reasons for the recent rise in Bund yields are numerous: First, signs of more Eurozone
integration (e.g. European bank deposit guarantee) combined with the recapitalization of Spanish banks.
Second, the firm commitment of central banks to act if downside risks materialize (possible quantitative
easing by the BoE and a higher probability of a ECB rate cut) and finally, Greek election results met
expectations. However, this rise was muted given the extension of Operation Twist, weak global / German
data and Spain's return to the spotlight.
¢ Over a three- to six-month horizon, we expect growth momentum to remain subdued but still in positive
territory; we should have more information on how Spain and Italy are handling their adjustment
programs. Also, the new pro-memorandum Greek government should limit safe haven inflows, and thus
limit short-term downside risks to yields.
¢ In the UK, economic data continues to be mixed as the recovery continues but is prone to external shocks.
The recent liquidity provision announcement by the BoE has confirmed these concerns.
e In Switzerland, yields have traded range bound owing to conflicting economic data. The SNB stressed
increased downside risks to the economy and stands ready to act. However, we believe Swiss yields will
gradually normalize.

A Positive scenario for German bonds 10-year Bund yield (6-month range) 1.1-1.3%
e The European debt crisis re-escalates. The resulting contagion would intensify the current flight to
quality.
¢ The economic recovery fails to gain momentum in the second half of the year. Credit demand fails to
improve further as some of the recent European Central Bank (ECB) data indicates. The ECB cuts rates.
¢ Further quantitative easing by the Fed would be supportive for Bunds and speaks for lower yields.
& Negative scenario for German bonds 10-year Bund yield (6-month range) 1.9-2.3%
¢ A moderate Eurozone economic recovery kicks in, supporting debt-burdened Eurozone countries in their
efforts to fulfill austerity commitments and thus reducing the demand for safe-haven assets. Alternatively,
Germany gives additional guarantees and the Eurozone moves towards a transfer union.

Note: Scenarios refer to global economic scenarios (see slide 7)

What we're watching Why it matters

Elections/EU fiscal The EU Summit will show if newly elected governments will change the dynamics
consolidation in the Eurozone.

Central banks The revival of the SMP program by the ECB would reduce the yields in the
periphery. Their assessments of the current economic situation can give hints of
further rate cuts or quantitative easing measures. Key dates: 5 July, ECB rate
decision; 31 July, Fed FOMC meeting

Credit conditions (ECB bank lending survey). Key date: 14 August, Eurozone
GDP Q2

The level of yield spreads to German bonds influences the level of German Bund
yields due to safe-haven flows.

Economic variables

Eurozone yield spreads

36 UBS

Duration preference: neutral

Recommendations

Tactical (6 months)

e Long term Bund yields would fall lower,
in case of rising Euro zone break up
probability. In contrast if Germany would
need to support the periphery further,
Bund yields would rise. We expect the
market to oscillate between these two
cases and recommend to stay neutral on
duration tactically.

Strategic (1 to 2 years)

e Yields have significant upside potential
over the next couple of years. Thus clients
with a long time horizon should focus on
bonds with short and medium maturities.

EU 10-year yields and forecasts
5%
4%
3%
2%

1%

0%

Jun-09 Jun-10 Jun-11 Jun-12 Jun-13
forecasts — UK 10Y
Germany 10Y — Switzerland 10Y

Source: Bloomberg, UBS CIO, as of June 18t 2012

Note: Past performance is not an indication of future returns.

For further information please contact CIO's asset class specialist Daniela Steinbrink Mattei, daniela.steinbrinkmattei@ubs.com or Sebastian Vogel, sebastian.vogel@ubs.com,,

or Nina Gotthelf, nina.gotthelf@ubs.com

Please see important disclaimer and disclosures at the end of the document.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024160
