Investment grade corporate bonds

Current global spread (26 June): 225bps (last month: 225bps)
UBS View Spread target (6-month): 170bps
¢ We expect investment grade (IG) corporate bonds to achieve a total return of around 3% over the next
six months. Our spread target of 170bps is based on our benign economic outlook, ongoing investor
appetite for income-generating assets and expected negative net issuance. This target spread is still above
its 15-year average of 130bps.
¢ Non-financial corporates: While total yields are at record lows, the pickup over government bonds and
money market rates is attractive. Aggressive re-leveraging by companies looks unlikely in the current
environment. Credit quality should remain good and non-financials continue to deliver a stable income.
e Financial corporates: Due to regulatory challenges, spreads are expected to remain above past averages.
Total returns could outpace non-financials, but volatility will be considerably higher.
¢ Overall, IG corporate bonds remain a preferred asset class, providing an attractive yield pickup. The asset
class offers relatively low volatility and a benign total return outlook. We expect lower-rated issuers (BBB
and A) to outperform higher-rated ones.

A Positive scenario Spread target (6-month): 140bps
¢ Global growth accelerates more forcefully than expected. This could compress spreads to closer to pre-
crisis levels. Soreads for Financials are likely to remain elevated due to regulatory challenges. However, in
this positive case, rising benchmark yields would limit total returns to 1-2% over six months.

& Negative scenario Spread target (6-month): 400bps
e Even if US economic growth falters, and the European recession turns out to be worse than currently
expected, we believe we would be unlikely to see the spread levels reached in 2009, given companies’
superior balance sheet positions. European financial issuers would be most at risk in this scenario.

Note: Scenarios refer to global economic scenarios (see slide 7)

What we're watching Why it matters

Core market yields Developed market sovereign yields are only expected to increase gradually. A
sudden rise and high volatility would hurt IG credit. Key dates: 1 August,

Federal Open Market Committee meeting

Good corporate earnings and low leverage on corporate balance sheets should
help prevent defaults.

As companies continue to deleverage, net negative supply on the IG market
should support higher prices.

Corporate fundamentals

New issuance

36 UBS

Preference: overweight

Recommendations

Tactical (6 months)

° We still see room for tighter yield spreads;
the return outlook compares very
favorably to government bonds.

e Internationally diversified companies from
non-financial sectors offer a stable and
relatively safe income stream for
conservative investors.

e We recommend bonds from the lower IG
rating segments (BBB and A) over higher-
rated issuers.

Strategic (1 to 2 years)

e We prefer corporate over sovereign assets
given companies’ robustness compared to
the structural weakness of public finance
in many countries.

Yield spreads
700
bps
600
500
400
300
200
100

fe)

2005 2006 2007 2008
—— EUR Investment Grade

2009 2010 2011 2012
—USD Investment Grade

Source: Bloomberg, UBS CIO, as of 26.June 2012

Note: Past performance is not an indication of future returns.

26

For further information please contact ClO’s asset class specialist Philipp Schéttler, philipp.schoettler@ubs.com

Please see important disclaimer and disclosures at the end of the document.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024161
