Listed real estate

UBS Global Index DTR (28 June): 1,375 (last month: 1,320)

UBS View UBS Global Index DTR (6-month target): 1,400
¢ A slight positive monthly performance has been driven by rebounds in the higher beta markets,
respectively Hong Kong, Japan and Singapore.

e Listed real estate is still attractively valued on different earnings ratios and trade on a slight discount to
NAV. Earnings yields over 5 year swap rate are attractive currently attractive, yet the flattening of interest
curves has come to a halt and we see less support from it in the future.

e Little supply of commercial space across the globe leads vacancy rates to gradually decline and low
capitalization rates in core markets support capital values. Also rental yields remain attractive compared to
high grade bond yields. However, further significant capital appreciation is unlikely. This is especially due a
slow down in rental income as economic growth is subdued. Hence, future performance is limited.

e Although slightly reduced, we maintain our preference for US REITs due to stable fundamentals and like
Australia as a conservative play. We slightly overweight Hong Kong, stay neutral towards Singapore, but
maintain a slight underweight in Japan as fundamentals remain unconvincing.

A Positive scenario UBS Global Index DTR (6-month target): 1,500
¢ Improving macroeconomic data in the US, positive economic surprises in Europe followed by monetary
easing in China help to increase growth prospects that support rental income growth, while refinancing
costs remain low in a low inflation environment. Real estate offers a comparatively attractive yield.
Negative scenario UBS Global Index DTR (6-month target): 1,300
¢ The US growth path disappoints investor expectations and causes the comparatively high valuation levels
there to correct, significantly affecting global real estate. Furthermore, a more severe recession in Europe
triggers a tightening of credit standards, making listed real estate more dependent than ever on bank
financing at a time when credit markets are already fragile. Real estate underperforms global equities
because the correlation between the availability of credit and short-term performance is high.

Note: Scenarios refer to global economic scenarios (see slide 7)

What we're watching Why it matters

We do not expect capitalization rates to decrease much from now. Rental yields
have already been pushed down by decreasing bond yields; we see a diminishing
support from the interest curve, which has significantly flattened in the past.
Global commercial real estate transaction volumes are down year-on-year due to
a lack of product in core markets and constraints on debt financing. Global rental
growth has softened and very modest growth will feature major markets overall.

Capitalization rates and
rental yields

Transaction volumes and
future rental growth in
direct markets

Credit markets and
financing costs

36 UBS

Lending conditions have been a little tightened. However, well financed listed
companies have still good access to credit, while others are more restricted.

Preference: neutral

Recommendations

Tactical (6 months)

¢ We maintain our neutral stance towards
listed real estate after a good performance
year-to-date and due to a relative less
attractive valuation compared to global
equities. Going forward returns are limited
by subdued revenue growth. However, we
still expect listed real estate to stay
comparatively attractive in a low growth,
low rates environment.

Strategic (1 to 2 years)

e A cyclical slowdown in rents limits growth,
but attractive refinancing conditions are
supportive. We see potential for higher
payout ratios in the US and Asia, while
Europe has to consolidate balance sheets.

Preference (6 months)
Our market preferences for listed real estate*

North America =
Continental Europe | | = =i
ues
Japan| | OT =U
HongKong —
Sngpore | | tt (‘<‘é édT;S*é‘( C‘i‘Cédr:C*S
Avswaia [| | |S =
Old m New
* This is our relative preference within the global real estate

sector based on UBS Global Real Estate Index domestic total
return, which is not the overall secter view

Source: UBS CIO, as of 26 June 2012

Note: Past performance is not an indication of future returns.

39

For further information please contact CIO's asset class specialist Thomas Veraguth, thomas.veraguth@ubs.com

Please see important disclaimer and disclosures at the end of the document.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024174
