OUP CORRECTED PROOF - FINAL, 10/9/2014, SPi

xxxvi The Crooked Course

However, compromises among the Quartet members led to ambiguities which gave
the parties the opportunity to make radically different interpretations of their obligations
under the plan. The Israeli side claimed that the Road Map called for security first—a
complete end of Palestinian violence—before any negotiations could start. This strategy
was called sequentialism. The Palestinian side, and the international community at large,
supported a strategy of parallelism that called for progress on both security and political
issues to happen in lock-step. The collision of the concepts of parallelism and sequenti-
alism made it impossible to reach the final destination envisioned in the Road Map.

With gridlock in the formal negotiating process, civil society groups tried to take the
initiative. One example of several is the Geneva Accords of December 2003 led by PLO
official Yasser Abed Rabbo and former Israeli Minister Yossi Beilin.

The stalemate in the process continued until Ehud Olmert’s election as Prime
Minister in 2006. Through intense negotiations facilitated by US Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice and her team, the parties came close to striking a deal which would
have pushed the peace process forward. However, as the end game of this phase of the
negotiations, also known as the Annapolis process, unfolded, Prime Minister Olmert
had to step down because of an indictment for alleged financial misconduct. At the
same time also, a new wave of rockets emanating from Gaza, lead to a military
operation in the Strip (Operation “Cast Lead’).

The scene and characters changed in early 2009 with the election of Barack Obama
as President of the United States, and Benjamin Netanyahu as Prime Minister of Israel
for a second time. Shortly after his inauguration, President Obama attempted to
resuscitate the peace process with the appointment of a new high-level special envoy,
Senator George Mitchell. An absolute freeze on settlements, including in Jerusalem,
was made a precondition for bringing the parties to the table. This turned out to be a
self-defeating proposal. For any Israeli Prime Minister, such a major move could only
be the result of, and not the pre-condition for, negotiations.

During this paralysis, the Palestinian leadership looked for alternative ways of
moving forward, and shifted their strategy from bilateralism to unilateralism through
a bid to upgrade the Palestinian status to be on a par with the Vatican at the United
Nations: that of an observer Member State in the General Assembly. This quest reached.
its climax during the UN General Assembly sessions of 2011 and 2012. In a speech to
the General Assembly in September 2011, President Abbas called for admission of
Palestine as a Member State of the United Nations. It reflected the growing frustration
among the Palestinian community with the lack of progress since the end of the
Annapolis process in 2008. In December 2012, the Palestinians were granted, with a
large majority, state observer status at the UN.

ON PART III: UNITED NATIONS DOCUMENTS
ON THE QUESTION OF PALESTINE
An accurate picture of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict must include an understanding
of the role of the United Nations. Part III provides a comprehensive collection of

Resolutions and documents which have significantly shaped the context of this seem-
ingly intractable issue.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023168
