Firtuy Ricu

Goldberger said. “There are no pending civil lawsuits. There are
not and should not be any pending investigations, given Mr.
Epstein’s complete fulfillment of all the terms of his non-prosecution
agreement with the federal government.”

If there was an investigation, nothing had come of it yet. For
the moment, Epstein was free—free to turn his attention, again,
to intellectual pursuits. He launched a website, JeffreyEpstein-

CHAPTER ce ” q Science.com, that featured blog posts such as “Conversations
® with Jeffrey Epstein,” “The Value of Quantum Computation to
Jeffrey Epstein,” “Why Evolutionary Biology Intrigues Jeffrey
Epstein,” and “An Understanding of Theoretical Physics from
Jeffrey Epstein.” The latter post began: “This is where Jeffrey
Epstein takes you to the very cutting edge of the frontiers of
knowledge to explore and discuss our basic understanding of

the subtle, simple, and hidden [qualities] that lie beneath... our

th jail, but he wasn’t done settling i 4 S universe.”
ms. Under the conditions of his ~
it, he’s even paid for the victims 3
vemed to ensure that he would not
mes. Double jeopardy was worl
ily of 2010, reports began to —_ | toact li . doe
tors were following other leads , these academic scientists— without people like him they wouldn't
_ have any money.”

child-trafficking charges and ;

| “jeffrey doesn’t know shit about science,” says Stuart Pivar, the
__ art collector who has known Epstein for more than three decades.
' “Does he like to act like he does? Yes. But he doesn’t. But as far as

Other friends of Epstein’s say that he truly did have a bril-

al’s office refused to comment. It ‘liant mind for science. And in any case, Epstein had done more
2r

O-
1 or deny the existence of an ongo
east

than sponsor individual scientists. He'd also sponsored confer-
ences on Little Saint Jeff’s. On his website, he announced a con-
fe ence called Mindshift at which Nobel laureates, such as the
he Oretical physicist Murray Gell-Mann, would mix with sur-

stein’s lawyers told the Daily B
of such an investigation. “Je

with all state and federal requit

Palm Beach, | seons, engineers, and futurists and where professors would

or proceedings in

231

230

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022038
