ATTERSON

know that we did produce tele-
Jevant periods of time when Vir-
y Epstein, and those telephone
‘ould not have been at the loca-
Virginia Roberts claimed to have
ve [had] sexual contact with me.

) get to those.

ll the flight logs that you claim

contact that you had with either
iitiated the second contact?
yt Michael on the phone.

3 your superb memory allows you

as said during the course of that ~

ect to the form and the continued F
e’s described his memory. Thats 4

thead.

Ar. Dershowitz’s characterization, ~

asked Michael if he had spoken :

he was still reluctant to talk to m&

Fittuy Ric

: Tm sorry—she said yes when you asked Michael if he had

spoken to his wife?

: He said yes. And that she was still reluctant to talk to me. I

suggested to him that perhaps she could talk to me briefly
just so that she hears what I have to say. And he could listen
and remain on the phone, and she could stop at any time she
wanted. And there came a time during that conversation
when she did get on the phone, and here’s what she told me.
She said she had grown up with Virginia Roberts. That they
were very, very close friends as young people. That Virginia
Roberts came to stay with her for a number of days, I think it
was over Halloween, and they had gone out and had dinner,
just the two of them. And that she confided in her: Virginia
Roberts confided in Rebecca that she had never wanted to
mention me in any of the pleadings, but she was pressured
by her lawyer into doing so. Rebecca then said that I was not
the object of this effort. The object of the effort was a billion-
aire who lives in Columbus, Ohio, and who owns Victoria’s
Secret and Limited Too. Rebecca told me she did not know
the name of that billionaire, but that Virginia and her law-
yers hoped to get one billion dollars, b-i-l-I-i-o-n, one billion
dollars, or half of his net worth, from him by alleging that he
had improperly engaged in sexual misconduct with Virginia
Roberts. That money would be divided three ways: a third of
it to Virginia Roberts, a third of it to a charity that she and
her lawyers were setting up for battered women, and a third
of it to the lawyers.

She then told me that they were trying to get ABC News
to interview Virginia Roberts so as to give her credibility in
order to pressure the billionaire from Columbus, Ohio, into

261

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022158

