I am well aware of the foreign reports that criticize the way that the UAE deals with the issue of democracy. Th
ese reports assess our system on the basis of their own history and cultural experiences, and the experiences of
their countries — some of which have been democracies for more than 300 years. The easiest thing is to hold
general elections and to place ballot boxes and to disseminate images and words about the greatness of
democracy.

But our leadership does not look for fame, and does not import ready-made models that may be valid for other
societies, but is certainly not suitable for our society. Some months ago, we celebrated National Day, our 37th.
Do you know how we used to live before? Do you have any idea about the state of education and illiteracy,
infrastructure and public services? Do you know the details of our society’s infrastructure and how it was
developed? Today, after the tremendous achievements in various fields, our people have full confidence in the
process of empowerment -- empowerment of the economy, women, the administration, the and culture as well
as political empowerment within our traditions and culture. The midterm elections of the members of the
Federal National Council is a very important step in the progression toward what is acceptable to the interests of
our people and our homeland.

The National Abu Dhabi Media Company - Matt Slater

The issues of labor rights and human trafficking continue to adversely affect the image
of the UAE abroad. Whereas there are clear policies aimed at aligning the20UAE with
international best practice on these fronts, the actual rate of prosecutions of those
violating rights on these fronts are generally seen to be low. What is being done to address
this?

I want you to look at the results of the last meeting of the International Committee for Human Rights in Geneva,
and to look at reports that refer to the huge progress in the UAE with regard to these issues. Even the periodic
reports issued by the U.S. State Department recognize this progress, particularly on the issue of human
trafficking.

We care about the rights of workers; we care about reinforcing the freedom of people. Our aim is not to win the
approval of international reports, but we are keen to promote human rights and also deepening the values of
social justice and tolerance. We are keen to provide a model for Arab and Muslim countries that adheres to
religious and cultural frameworks; we are keen to continue to interact with the international community. We
want the respect and cooperation of all. Our religion and our values and ethics do not accept any violation of
human rights and of people -- no matter where they work and where do they come from and what their belief
and religion are. It’s in our nature not to condone injustice, and we sympathize with victims and needy people.
We have very active charitable institutions operating in a large number of the less fortunate countries. We
cannot accept that any person, man or woman, would be defeated in their quest20for human dignity. As for the
number of cases submitted in the courts for prosecution, I would say that it reflects the reality and it is
considered to be high in comparison with the number of the UAE population.

The National Abu Dhabi Media Company - Matt Slater

Your Highness, you are Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE, Ruler of Dubai,
founder of the famous Godolphin horse-racing stable, sportsman and poet. How do you
juggle your political and non-political roles, and what do you do for fun?

The day has 24 hours or 1,440 minutes, or 86,400 seconds. For me, this is sufficient time for work, hobbies and
sports. It works if you respect time and you know how to organize your schedule. Whoever enjoys his work, it
seems that you add five days to your week. I enjoy my work, which is my existence in my life: the service of my
homeland and my people. My joy increases when I see the progress and prosperity of my homeland and my

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024938
