increases the likelihood one will
reach such solutions. All of the
perspectives discussed in this
book have been transformed
through this process.

Background

In pursuing the tandem lines of
inquiry of science and the humanities,
the Network itself serves as an example
of the human capacities and emergent
processes that can derive from collective
social structures and actions. In the
chapters to follow, the Network
examines the nature and power of
unseen forces ranging from human co-
regulation to physiological effects of
spiritual beliefs. The exchanges across
disciplinary perspectives suggest that the
“dominion of the solitary individual” is
insufficient to understand the human
mind or to optimize human health and
well being. To understand human nature
and the human mind, one may need to
appreciate human needs and capabilities
that have not been given due attention.

Homo sapiens are a social
species, which means there are emergent
organizations beyond individuals that
contribute to the ability of our species to
survive, reproduce, and care for our
offspring sufficiently long that they too
survive to reproduce. As a consequence,
evolutionary forces have sculpted neural,
hormonal, and genetic mechanisms that
support these social structures. Among
the possible consequences explored in
this book are that: 1) people are not the
entirely self-interested, short-term
thinking, rational decision makers
assumed by the mythical creature, Homo
economicus, and 2) some of the
amorphous dissatisfaction and chronic
diseases that characterize contemporary
society may be, in part, the consequence
of the denial of the differences between

Page |1l

the nature of these two beings. Existing
scientific studies of religion have
established the pervasiveness of
religious beliefs and practices and an
association between these beliefs or
practices and physical as well as mental
health. Religious beliefs and practices
have also contributed to failures to heed
life-saving medical advice and to the
horrendous treatment of others. It will
be through the serious investigation of
such beliefs and practices, not through
their denial, that we may ultimately be
able to identify which aspects of these
beliefs and practices are beneficial, for
what individuals and in what contexts,
and through what specific mechanisms.

Recent research has made it
patently clear that William James (1890,
p. 442, 2) underestimated the faculties of
human infants when he suggested that
their first sensory experiences were a
“blooming, buzzing confusion.” But
what James’ sentiment did capture is the
overwhelming complexity and
uncertainty that exists in the child’s
environment, and the inherent difficulty
in making sense of that complexity from
scratch. Our drive to make meaning is
irrepressible---and when we do not
understand the forces that drive our
actions, we invent narratives that make
these invisible forces feel more
predictable and understandable even if
only in hindsight. But we do not do it
alone.

Adults as well as children must
explain the uncertainty and ambiguity of
natural phenomena (calamities of
weather, death and reproduction) as well
as social phenomena (human agents) in
order to operate effectively. But not all
actions are perceived as being
equivalent. Forces operating on objects
to compel action, as when gravity causes
rocks to slide down a mountain, are

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021257
