courage. Not surprisingly, social interactions, as configured by the mouse’s own
personality style, contributed significantly to their behavioral patterns. As an
example, the C57BL strain of laboratory mouse has strong tendencies toward
impulsively wild behavior. To be anthropocentric and using Hagen and Eysenck-like
behavioral dimensions, we could describe the C57BL mouse as exhibiting high
psychotocism, P, energetic sociability, high energy, E, and low emotionality, low
neuroticism, N. The C57BL also loves alcohol and will dominate the low E, shy, low
P, retiring, alcohol avoidant, high N, emotional, anxious, frequently defecating albino
BALB strain of mouse when they are placed together for a limited time in a novel
situation during the daylight hours. Over a more extended time, however, the BALB
mouse comes to dominate the C57BL, beginning with attacks in the dark and finally
as the persistent and patient survivor over days of aggressive fighting. BALB’s low
E, social fear eventually turns into rage and aggression. The C57BL is quick to mate
and ejaculate but very slow to recover sexually, so that the less post-orgasmically
refractory BALB also wins in long term sexual competition in a cage full of fecund
females. Modern social psychological approaches to human personality are
beginning to approach the interactions of genetic brain proclivities and collective
social dynamics in this way.

Employing Eysenck categories of personality characteristics, similar results
about style as influenced by genetic selection can be seen in humans. The
correlations between factor scores based on B. Loehlen’s studies using the
California Personality Inventory in twins demonstrated as much as threefold higher
correlations among identical twins for extroversion (E) and neuroticism (N) factors
compared with matched fraternal twins. The primacy of some of the in-born
biological roots of these personality styles is suggested by G. Methany’s finding of
higher correlations between identical as compared to fraternal twins when studied at
the age of two months. The similarities in personality and temperament measures
included activity level, regularity, approach-withdrawal, intensity, persistence,
distractibility and adaptability.

More recent familial studies of the heritability of personality characteristics

included childhood shyness, neuroticism, depressive symptoms, aggressiveness,

29

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013529
