7

RUSSIA

ven before there was reason to suspect Sally Yates, they suspected her. The transition
E report said Trump wouldn’t like the fifty-six-year-old Atlanta-born University of
Georgia career Justice Department lawyer slated to step up to acting attorney general.
There was something about a particular kind of Obama person. Something about the way
they walked and held themselves. Superiority. And about a certain kind of woman who
would immediately rub Trump the wrong way—Obama women being a good tip-off,
Hillary women another. Later this would be extended to “DOJ women.”

Here was an elemental divide: between Trump and career government employees. He
could understand politicians, but he was finding it hard to get a handle on these bureaucrat
types, their temperament and motives. He couldn’t grasp what they wanted. Why would
they, or anyone, be a permanent government employee? “They max out at what? Two
hundred grand? Tops,” he said, expressing something like wonder.

Sally Yates could have been passed over for the acting AG spot—to serve in place
while the attorney-general-designate, Jeff Sessions, waited for confirmation—and before
long Trump would be furious about why she wasn’t. But she was the sitting deputy and
she’d been confirmed by the Senate, and the acting AG job needed someone with Senate
confirmation. And even though she seemed to see herself as something of a prisoner held
in hostile territory, Yates accepted the job.

Given this context, the curious information she presented to White House counsel Don
McGahn during the administration’s first week—this was before, in the second week, she
refused to enforce the immigration order and was thereupon promptly fired—seemed not
only unwelcome but suspect.

The newly confirmed National Security Advisor, Michael Flynn, had brushed off
reports in the Washington Post about a conversation with Russian ambassador Sergey
Kislyak. It was a simple meet and greet, he said. He assured the transition team—among
others, Vice President-elect Pence—that there were no discussions of Obama
administration sanctions against the Russians, an assurance Pence publicly repeated.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019955
