154

Business

One of the emerging debates in Canada concerns the future of China’s telecom giant,
Huawei, which is widely believed to have links with China’s People’s Liberation Army.
Huawei has little significant business in the United States and was recently banned from
participating in Australia’s 5G wireless network project. Now Canada is debating that
issue, despite the fact that the firm has established a vast network of relationships with
all of Canada’s major telecom carriers and Canada’s leading research universities. Two
former directors of the Canadian Security Intelligence Service—Richard Fadden and
Ward Elcock—as well as John Adams, the former head of the Communications Security
Establishment (CSE), told the Globe and Mail in August that Canada should also ban
Huawei from supplying equipment for a 5G network.

Universities

An example from academia suggests the efficacy of Canadian efforts to combat China’s
influence operations. At one West Coast Canadian university with large numbers of
students from the PRC in undergraduate humanities and social science courses, where
potentially divergent views of China and Chinese political behavior regularly form
part of the curriculum, there has been no observation of the pressures documented
in Australia, where professors are often openly criticized by Chinese students for
proposing less flattering ways of looking at China. However, at that university’s for-
profit “international transition program,” which offers international students who
did not qualify for admission the chance (for a fee) to prepare to meet entrance
requirements, university administrators have generally failed to integrate the students
who are overwhelmingly PRC Chinese with poor English ability into the broader
campus community. The result is that, even without PRC consular pressure, there is a
strong pro-PRC culture of “political correctness” that conforms to United Front goals
without the effort to promote it. It appears that social isolation is the driving factor in
this case.

Conclusion

Much of China’s influence activities in Canada are a legitimate extension of the
public diplomacy in which all nations engage. The pressing issue is when and where
China crosses the line between influence and interference. Canadian experience so
far suggests more influence work than interference. However, there are clear examples
where such influence has become interference. So far, it would appear that the key
variable for the relatively low impact of Chinese state efforts (or proxies) turns out to
be Canadian practice more than Chinese state efforts. That is, the internal diversity
of the Canadian Chinese community blunts political efforts by any one political
party (including the CCP). More generally, Canadian practices of multiculturalism,

Appendix 2

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020613
