Then, from directly behind me, came another sound: the hiss of Avi’s bulky
two-way radio. I was worried we’d end up waking the Syrians. But just as I was
figuring out how to make sure we got past them before that happened, Avi drew
up beside me.

“Ehud,” he whispered. “It’s 1:15. The command post ordered us to turn
back.”

“Turn off the radio,” I said, my hand on his elbow, reassuringly I hoped, as I
led him and the others back a full 100 feet from the Syrians. We took a wider
route around the camp. We moved much more quickly on the final mile to the
road that led toward Quneitra. We were now well clear of the camp, and I felt it
was unlikely we’d run into a patrol. I was also confident we’d have an easier
return trip. I knew what had held us up on the way in: finding a path on the
plateau clear of mines, figuring out how to cross the river, and the general
unfamiliarity of the terrain. None of those applied now. I felt we could get the
bugging job done and still be back before dawn. As we got nearer the road, Avi
asked me a couple of more times whether he should turn the radio back on.
“No,” I kept telling him. “It’s OK. Pl tell you when.”

It was about two in the morning when we reached the road. We found a
telephone pole set back on the edge of a field. Moshiko hoisted himself onto
Kuti Sharabi’s shoulders, clambered up the pole and installed the bugging
device. The entire operation took him less than 10 minutes. We moved more
quickly on the way back. By around 3:30, we had crossed the river. “You can
turn on the radio now,” I told Avi, who was obviously relieved. He handed it to
me. Using our agreed code words, I reported our location, and added the phrase
for “mission accomplished.”

When we began our final descent, it was starting to get light. I assumed we
were near enough to the border to make it unlikely we’d be shot at. Still, there
was a danger we’d be spotted by a patrol, so I was relieved when we reached the
mound of boulders, more than ten feet high, that served as a tank barrier outside
Kibbutz Dan. When we stepped behind it, I saw that not only Avraham, but
Meir Amit as well, were waiting. The Head of Military Intelligence said
nothing. He didn’t have to. He just shook my hand, beaming. Avraham grabbed
each of us, one by one, in a bear hug.

Then, drawing me aside, Avraham said that I had only narrowly missed
landing in deep trouble. I assumed my transgression was shutting off the radio
and disobeying the order to return. That was just part of the problem, however.

70
HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011541
