particularly if the girl was 16 or younger. But what is particularly disturbing about this case—judging by
arrangements at the Palm Beach house—is that Epstein, a billionaire hedge-fund manager, organized his life
around this sexual compulsion in an open and methodical way that suggests he felt he was beyond the law.

* Conchita Sarnoff: Epstein Faces Sex Traffic Probe

Billionaire Pedophile Goes Free

According to police who executed a search warrant, the house was decorated with large, framed photos of nude
young girls, and similar images were found stashed in an armoire and on the computers seized at the house
(although police found only bare cables where other computers had been). Some bathrooms were stocked with
soap in the shape of sex organs, and various sex toys, such as a “twin torpedo” vibrator and creams and
lubricants available at erotic specialty shops, were stowed near the massage tables set up in several rooms
upstairs.

Epstein also enlisted his staff in the predatory activity, and four—Sarah Kellen, Adriana Ross, Lesley Groff,
and Marcinkova—figured in the FBI investigation. The Non Prosecution Agreement stipulated that they would
not be charged. According to police reports and sworn statements in the civil suits, all four women, among their
other duties, worked to ensure that an appointment book for twice- or thrice-daily “massages” was stocked with
fresh recruits. Ghislaine Maxwell, daughter of the late Czechoslovakian-born press baron Robert Maxwell,
who was for many years Epstein’s live-in partner, also recruited young girls.

Since his 13-month sentence for soliciting prostitution with a minor, Epstein has settled more than a dozen
lawsuits brought by underage girls. Seven victims reached a last-minute deal last week, days before a
scheduled trial; each received well over $1 million—an amount that will hardly dent Epstein’s $2 billion net
worth.

The victims told police they waited in the kitchen to be called upstairs for a massage, and the house chef often
gave them a bite to eat. House manager Alfredo Rodriguez said in his sworn statement that a maid named
Lupita, who was a devout Catholic, wept when she complained to him about cleaning up after the massage
sessions, picking up soiled towels and putting away the sex toys. And she was upset that a photo of Epstein
with the pope hung next to one of him with a young girl.

Ironically, Rodriguez, who ran the house on El Brillo Way in 2004 and 2005, ended up being sentenced to more
jail time than his boss as a result of the complex investigation into Epstein’s activities. He was fired, he says,
for inadvertently drawing police attention to one of the girls when she arrived at the house unannounced to
collect money. He saw an unfamiliar “beater” in the driveway one evening and called 911. When he left
Epstein’s employ, Rodriguez took away some notes and emails about massage appointments as “protection”
against his own prosecution, and failed to produce them during the Palm Beach Police Department’s initial
investigation.

e javascript:;javascript:;

e http://www.thedailybeast.com/blogs- and-stories/2010-07-22/jeffrey-epstein-pedophile-billionaire-and-his-sex-den/full/
e javascript:void(0)

° javascript:void(0)

e javascript:void(0)
Unable to get work as a house manager elsewhere in South Florida, he says, Rodriguez later tried to sell this
“golden nugget”—his term—for $50,000, to be used in the victims’ civil suits. Unfortunately, he made the
offer to an undercover cop, and was subsequently charged with “obstruction of official proceedings” for
withholding information that could have advanced the criminal investigation of Epstein—which by that point
had been settled in a plea deal. Rodriguez was sentenced to 18 months in federal prison (Epstein was allowed to
serve 13 months in the Palm Beach county jail), and now awaits an additional sentence on Aug. 24 in federal
court in Miami for transporting firearms, another deal he says he made to pay the bills after he lost his job.
In a deposition given for the civil suits, Rodriguez testified that he was instructed to always have $2,000 in cash
on hand, so that he could pay both the girls who gave massages and recruiters such as Haley Robson who
brought them to the house. He also testified that Epstein made large contributions to the Palm Beach Police

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029768
