So Gfayee ica series tance age

Date: 7/13/06 PALM BEACH POLICE DEPARTMENT
Time: 9:27:55 Incident Report Program: CMS301L
Case No. .. . : 1-05-000368 (Continued)

1685 61st Drive in West Palm Beach. Research conducted on Venero
revealed she is a licensed Massage therapist with a_Florida
conditional/active license number HE. Venero

The last number
assigned to Thomas Rofrano of 9850 Alt A1A in Palm Beach Gardens.
Research on Mr. Rofrano, revealed that he is a Florida Chiropractic

Physician.

Vehicles that were previously documented on the property while

surveillance was being conducted were res hed I determined a

bearing Florida license , was seen on the
property im which a young white female was seen entering the Epstein b6
property. Research was conducted which revealed that the vehicle is b7C

has two daughters,

is currently residing in

registered to

is residing with her father in

pd
| | Research on[ +=—C’.... Jrevealed she was recently involved

in A request to
discover any information from

was requested

I spoke with ASA Daliah Weiss who informed me that Janusz Banasiak
will be available for an interview tomorrow at the State Attorney's
Office in West Palm Beach at 1:30 pm. I informed her that I would be
at her office for the interview.

KRRKKRKREKRKEEKEKEREEKEEKEEERERK NDRRA TIVE fe 3G BRRKRKKKKEKEKKKKEEKEEKEREEE
NA Reported By: RECAREY, JOSEPH 1/23/06
Entered By.: ALTOMARO, NICKIE A. 1/23/06

On January 19, 2006, Det. Caristo and I met with at
622 Holly Drive in Palm Beach Gardens. was identified as a
licensed massage therapist who had previously been seen on Epstein's
property when physical surveillance was done. was told of the
on going investigation and I felt she may have information pertaining
to the case. During a sworn taped statement, Ma Stee she met
Epstein three years ago when Ghaline Maxwell approached her while she
was attending Palm Beach Atlantic College to work around Epstein's
‘house. Maxwell had told her that they needed some girls to work at
the house to answer phones and run errands. accepted the job
and began working at Epstein's house on El Brillo in Palm Beach.

stated it was a part time job during the time she went to Palm
Beach Atlantic College. She continued going to Epstein's house and
would be notified when Epstein would travel to Palm Beach..
advised she would be notified by Maxwell, Epstein_or HE his
assistant, when he would travel to Palm Beach. [RRR stated she
began providing massages to Epstein before she became a massage
therapist. She continued giving massages not_only to Epstein but to

, and MEM, his assistant. [EBBJ was asked about

what occurred during the massages. [J stated as she was twenty

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019028
