Fed chairman and currying favor with Bannon—“licking my balls,” Bannon said with a
quite a cackle. In return for supporting Cohn’s campaign to win the Fed job, Bannon was
extracting fealty from him for the right-wing trade agenda.

The geniuses were fucked. Even POTUS might be fucked. But Bannon had the vision
and the discipline—he was sure he did. “I’m cracking my shit every day. The nationalist
agenda, we’re fucking owning it. I'll be there for the duration.”

Before the dinner, Bannon had sent around an article from the Guardian—though one
of the leading English-language left-leaning newspapers, it was nevertheless Bannon’s
favorite paper—about the backlash to globalization. The article, by the liberal journalist
Nikil Saval, both accepted Bannon’s central populist political premise—*the competition
between workers in developing and developed countries ... helped drive down wages and
job security for workers in developed countries’—and elevated it to the epochal fight of
our time. Davos was dead and Bannon was very much alive. “Economists who were once
ardent proponents of globalization have become some of its most prominent critics,” wrote
Saval. “Erstwhile supporters now concede, at least in part, that it has produced inequality,
unemployment and downward pressure on wages. Nuances and criticisms that economists
only used to raise in private seminars are finally coming out in the open.”

“I’m starting to get tired of winning” was all that Bannon said in his email with the link
to the article.

Now, restless and pacing, Bannon was recounting how Trump had dumped on
McMaster and, as well, savoring the rolling-on-the-floor absurdity of the geniuses’
Scaramucci gambit. But most of all he was incredulous about something else that had
happened the day before.

Unbeknownst to senior staff, or to the comms office—other than by way of a pro forma
schedule note—the president had given a major interview to the New York Times. Jared
and Ivanka, along with Hope Hicks, had set it up. The Zimes’s Maggie Haberman,
Trump’s béte noire (“very mean, and not smart’) and yet his go-to journalist for some
higher sort of approval, had been called in to see the president with her colleagues Peter
Baker and Michael Schmidt. The result was one of the most peculiar and ill-advised
interviews in presidential history, from a president who had already, several times before,
achieved that milestone.

In the interview, Trump had done his daughter and son-in-law’s increasingly frantic
bidding. He had, even if to no clear end and without certain strategy, continued on his
course of threatening the attorney general for recusing himself and opening the door to a
special prosecutor. He openly pushed Sessions to resign—mocking and insulting him and
daring him to try to stay. However much this seemed to advance no one’s cause, except
perhaps that of the special prosecutor, Bannon’s incredulity—“Jefferson Beauregard
Sessions is not going to go anywhere”—was most keenly focused on another remarkable

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020093
