access...” It is perhaps strange to come to this common knowledge so late, but |
came to my life with my forbearers and father’s magical, mystical biases.

My father had parodied what he thought was the “wasteful time” spent in
rational, Talmudic discussion. He said that is what Jewish men spent their time
doing to avoid physical work while sitting near the city gates. It was the women who
raised the crops and cared for the cattle and children. He had a favorite conundrum
satirizing the village gate discussions. Jewish males, after the age of thirteen,
accompany their morning prayer of commitment to loving and serving God with the
ritual of wrapping scripture embedded animal skin, tefillin, and winding them seven
times around the left arm, near the heart, and around the head, symbolizing the
mind. This contextualizes how my father made fun of a typical topic of these all
male Talmudic seminars: “If one had seven arms, would one wrap the fefillin once
around each appendage or seven times about one of them. If the latter is the case,
how would one chose which one.” In fact, there remains an on-going debate about
the order with which the embedded four passages from Exodus and Deuteronomy
should be arranged and inserted in the ftefillin such that some compromising
orthodox Jews wear two types of fefi/lin, each representing one of the theoretically
justified orderings. | know now that there is an implicitly positive confirmation of a
jointly held faith and feeling of ethnic belonging achieved by such apparently
abstract discourse and argumentation.

In truth, | had not come to Warwick to explore the relationships between faith
and rationality using the cognitive style of mathematicism, but rather to be saved by
the mathematical miracles of the Brain God. Not unrelated to what C.S. Lewis saw
as a prominent characteristic of spiritual experience, “wonder,” and what Philip
Davis and Reuben Hersh in their 1981 book, The Mathematical Experience, spoke
of as “beauty” and “surprise.” | know about the attack of excitement that comes with
the sudden emergence of counterintuitive conceptual connections while exploring
new mathematical ideas. In energetic high, | start skip reading, underlining the book
frantically, jotting commentary on the margins, copying the relevant equations into
my notebook. Was this the same break through to a glimmering of grace, everything

beautifully in order and precious, that | experienced on LSD while sitting for hours

177

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013677
