NAUTILUS EDUCATION | BETA PRODUCT

Going Dark: Scavenging Exotic Matter
Instead of scavenging hydrogen gas, Jia Liu, a physics
graduate student at New York University, has pro-
posed foraging for dark matter, the invisible exotic
material that astronomers think makes up the bulk
of the galaxy. Particle physicists hypothesize that
dark matter consists of a type of particle called the
neutralino, which has a useful property: When two
neutralinos collide, they annihilate each other in a
blaze of gamma rays. Such reactions could drive a
ship forward. Like the hydrogen scooper, a dark-mat-
ter ship could approach the speed of light. The prob-
lem, though, is that dark matter is dark—meaning it
doesn’t respond to electromagnetic forces. Physicists
know of no way to collect it, let alone channel it to
produce rocket thrust.

If engineers somehow overcame these problems
and built a near-light-speed ship, not just Alpha Cen-
tauri but the entire galaxy would come within range.
In the 1960s astronomer Carl Sagan calculated that, if
you could attain a modest rate of acceleratton—about
the same rate a sports car uses—and maintain it long
enough, you’d get so close to the speed of light that
you’d cross the galaxy in just a couple of decades of
shipboard time. As a bonus, that rate would provide a
comfortable level of artificial gravity.

On the downside, hundreds of thousands of years
would pass on Earth in the meantime. By the time you
got back, your entire civilization might have gone ape.
From one perspective, though, this is a good thing. The
tricks relativity plays with time would solve the eter-
nal problem of too-slow computers. If you want to do
some eons-long calculation, go off and explore some
distant star system and the result will be ready for you
when you return. The starship crews of the future may
not be voyaging for survival, glory, or conquest. They
may be solving puzzles.

Going Warp: Bending Time and Space
With a ship moving at a tenth the speed of light,
humans could migrate to the nearest stars within a
lifetime, but crossing the galaxy would remain a jour-
ney of a million years, and each star system would still
be mostly isolated. To create a galactic version of the
global village, bound together by planes and phones,
you'd need to travel faster than light.

10

Contrary to popular belief, Emstein’s theory of rela-
tivity does not rule that out completely. According to
the theory, space and time are elastic; what we perceive
as the force of gravity is in fact the warping of space and
time. In principle, you could warp space so severely that
you'd shorten the distance you want to cross, like fold-
ing arug to bring the two sides closer together. If so, you
could cross any distance instantaneously. You wouldn’t
even notice the acceleration, because the field would
zero out g-forces inside the ship. The view from the ship
windows would be stunning. Stars would change in col-
or and shift toward the axis of motion.

It seems almost mean-spirited to point out how far
beyond our current technology this idea is. Warp drive
would require a type of material that exerts a gravita-
tional push rather than a gravitational pull. Such mate-
rial contains a negative amount of energy—literally less
than nothing, as if you had a mass of —50 kilograms.
Physicists, inventive types that they are, have imagined
ways to create such energy, but even they throw up their
hands at the amount of negative energy a starship would
need: a few stars’ worth. What is more, the ship would
be impossible to steer, since control signals, which are
restricted to the speed of light, wouldn’t be fast enough
to get from the ship’s bridge to the propulsion system
located on the vessel’s perimeter. (Equipment within
the ship, however, would function just fi

When it comes to starships, it’s best not to get hung up
on details. By the time humanity gets to the point it might
actually build one, our very notions of travel may well
have changed. “Do we need to send full humans?” asks
Long. “Maybe we just need to send embryos, or maybe in
the future, you could completely download yourself into
a computer, and you can remanufacture yourself at the
other end through something similar to 3-D printing.”
Today, a starship seems like the height of futuristic think-
ing. Future generations might fi itquamt. ©

george musser is a writer on physics and cosmology and
author of The Complete Idiot's Guide ToString Theory(Alpha,
2008). He was a senior editor at Scientific American for 14 years
and has won honors such as the American Institute of Physics
Science Writing Award.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015471
