INCOME RATINGS, indicators of potential cash dividends, are: 7 - same/higher (dividend considered to be secure), 8 - same/lower (dividend not considered to be secure) and 9 - pays
no cash dividend. Coverage Cluster is comprised of stocks covered by a single analyst or two or more analysts sharing a common industry, sector, region or other classification(s). A stock’s
coverage cluster is included in the most recent BofA Merrill Lynch report referencing the stock.

Price charts for the securities referenced in this research report are available at http://pricecharts.baml.com, or call 1-800-MERRILL to have them mailed.

Credit Opinion History Tables for the securities referenced in this research report are available at http://pricecharts.baml.com, or call 1-800-MERRILL to have them mailed.

One or more analysts responsible for covering the securities in this report owns stock of the covered issuer: Genel Energy.

MLPF&S or an affiliate was a manager of a public offering of securities of this issuer within the last 12 months: Qatar.

The issuer is or was, within the last 12 months, an investment banking client of MLPF&S and/or one or more of its affiliates: BAE SYSTEMS, Dubai, Qatar, Qatar (Central Bank), SABIC, Saudi
Telecom, THALES, Yansab.
MLPF&S or an affiliate has received compensation from the issuer for non-investment banking services or products within the past 12 months: BAE SYSTEMS, Bahrain, Bahrain (Treasury),
Dubai, Qatar, Qatar (Central Bank), SABIC, Yansab.

The issuer is or was, within the last 12 months, a non-securities business client of MLPF&S and/or one or more of its affiliates: BAE SYSTEMS, Bahrain, Bahrain (Treasury), Dubai, Qatar, Qatar
(Central Bank), SABIC, Yansab.
In the US, retail sales and/or distribution of this report may be made only in states where these securities are exempt from registration or have been qualified for sale: Al Hammadi, Al Othaim,
Almarai, BAE SYSTEMS, Dallah Healthcare, Dar Al Arkan, Extra, Jarir, SABIC, SAFCO, Saudi Telecom, Savola, THALES, Yansab, Zain KSA.

MLPF&S or an affiliate has received compensation for investment banking services from this issuer within the past 12 months: BAE SYSTEMS, Dubai, Qatar, Qatar (Central Bank), SABIC, THALES,
Yansab.
MLPF&S or an affiliate expects to receive or intends to seek compensation for investment banking services from this issuer or an affiliate of the issuer within the next three months: BAE
SYSTEMS, Dubai, Qatar, Qatar (Central Bank), SABIC, Saudi Telecom, THALES, Yansab.

MLPF&S or one of its affiliates has a significant financial interest in the fixed income instruments of the issuer. If this report was issued on or after the 15th day of the month, it reflects a
significant financial interest on the last day of the previous month. Reports issued before the 15th day of the month reflect a significant financial interest at the end of the second month
preceding the report: BAE SYSTEMS, Qatar.

MLPF&S or one of its affiliates is willing to sell to, or buy from, clients the common equity of the issuer on a principal basis: BAE SYSTEMS.

MLPF&S or one of its affiliates trades or may trade as principal in the debt securities (or in related derivatives) that are the subject of this research report: Bahrain, Bahrain (Treasury), Dubai,
Qatar.

The issuer is or was, within the last 12 months, a securities business client (non-investment banking) of MLPF&S and/or one or more of its affiliates: BAE SYSTEMS, Bahrain, Bahrain (Treasury),
Dubai, Qatar, Qatar (Central Bank), SABIC, THALES, Yansab.

BofA Merrill Lynch Research Personnel (including the analyst(s) responsible for this report) receive compensation based upon, among other factors, the overall profitability of Bank of America
Corporation, including profits derived from investment banking. The analyst(s) responsible for this report may also receive compensation based upon, among other factors, the overall
profitability of the Bank’s sales and trading businesses relating to the class of securities or financial instruments for which such analyst is responsible.

BofA Merrill Lynch Global Credit Research analysts regularly interact with sales and trading desk personnel in connection with their research, including to ascertain pricing and liquidity in the
fixed income markets.

Other Important Disclosures

Prices are indicative and for information purposes only. Except as otherwise stated in the report, for the purpose of any recommendation in relation to: (i) an equity security, the price
referenced is the publicly traded price of the security as of close of business on the day prior to the date of the report or, if the report is published during intraday trading, the price referenced is
indicative of the traded price as of the date and time of the report; or (ii) a debt security (including equity preferred and CDS), prices are indicative as of the date and time of the report and are
from various sources including Bank of America Merrill Lynch trading desks.
The date and time of completion of the production of any recommendation in this report shall be the date and time of dissemination of this report as recorded electronically on the platform in
which the report was accessed.

This report may refer to fixed income securities that may not be offered or sold in one or more states or jurisdictions. Readers of this report are advised that any discussion, recommendation or
other mention of such securities is not a solicitation or offer to transact in such securities. Investors should contact their BofA Merrill Lynch representative or Merrill Lynch Financial Global
Wealth Management financial advisor for information relating to fixed income securities
Rule 144A securities may be offered or sold only to persons in the U.S. who are Qualified Institutional Buyers within the meaning of Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
SECURITIES DISCUSSED HEREIN MAY BE RATED BELOW INVESTMENT GRADE AND SHOULD THEREFORE ONLY BE CONSIDERED FOR INCLUSION IN ACCOUNTS QUALIFIED FOR SPECULATIVE
INVESTMENT.

Recipients who are not institutional investors or market professionals should seek the advice of their independent financial advisor before considering information in this report in connection
with any investment decision, or for a necessary explanation of its contents.

The securities discussed in this report may be traded over-the-counter. Retail sales and/or distribution of this report may be made only in states where these securities are exempt from
registration or have been qualified for sale.

This report, and the securities discussed herein, may not be eligible for distribution or sale in all countries or to certain categories of investors.

Individuals identified as economists do not function as research analysts under U.S. law and reports prepared by them are not research reports under applicable U.S. rules and regulations.
Macroeconomic analysis is considered investment research for purposes of distribution in the U.K. under the rules of the Financial Services Authority.

BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research policies relating to conflicts of interest are described at http://go.bofa.com/coi.

BofA Merrill Lynch includes Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (MLPF&S’) and its affiliates. Investors should contact their BofA Merrill Lynch representative or
Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management financial advisor if they have questions concerning this report. BofA Merrill Lynch” and Merrill Lynch are each global brands for BofA
Merrill Lynch Global Research.

Information relating to Non-US affiliates of BofA Merrill Lynch and Distribution of Affiliate Research Reports:

MLPF&S distributes, or may in the future distribute, research reports of the following non-US affiliates in the US (short name: legal name, regulator): Merrill Lynch (South Africa): Merrill Lynch
South Africa (Pty) Ltd., regulated by The Financial Service Board; MLI (UK): Merrill Lynch International, regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the Prudential Regulation Authority
PRA); Merrill Lynch (Australia): Merrill Lynch Equities (Australia) Limited, regulated by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission; Merrill Lynch (Hong Kong): Merrill Lynch (Asia
Pacific) Limited, regulated by the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission (HKSFC) and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA); Merrill Lynch (Singapore): Merrill Lynch (Singapore)
Pte Ltd, regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS); Merrill Lynch (Canada): Merrill Lynch Canada Inc, regulated by the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada;
Merrill Lynch (Mexico): Merrill Lynch Mexico, SA de CV, Casa de Bolsa, regulated by the Comision Nacional Bancaria y de Valores; Merrill Lynch (Argentina): Merrill Lynch Argentina SA, regulated
by Comision Nacional de Valores; Merrill Lynch (japan): Merrill Lynch Japan Securities Co. Ltd., regulated by the Financial Services Agency; Merrill Lynch (Seoul): Merrill Lynch International
Incorporated (Seoul Branch) regulated by the Financial Supervisory Service; Merrill Lynch (Taiwan): Merrill Lynch Securities (Taiwan) Ltd., regulated by the Securities and Futures Bureau; DSP
Merrill Lynch (India): DSP Merrill Lynch Limited, regulated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India; PT Merrill Lynch (Indonesia): PT Merrill Lynch Indonesia, regulated by Otoritas Jasa
Keuangan (OJK); Merrill Lynch (Israel): Merrill Lynch Israel Limited, regulated by Israel Securities Authority; Merrill Lynch (Russia): OOO Merrill Lynch Securities, Moscow, regulated by the Central
Bank of the Russian Federation; Merrill Lynch (Turkey |.B.): Merrill Lynch Yatirim Bank A.S., regulated by the Capital Markets Board of Turkey; Merrill Lynch (Turkey Broker): Merrill Lynch Menkul
Degerler AS., regulated by the Capital Markets Board of Turkey; Merrill Lynch (DIFC): Merrill Lynch International (DIFC Branch), regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority (DFSA); Merrill
Lynch (Spain): Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Espana, S.A.S.V., regulated by Comisién Nacional del Mercado De Valores; Merrill Lynch (Brazil): Bank of America Merrill Lynch Banco Multiplo S.A.,
regulated by Comissdo de Valores Mobiliarios; Merrill Lynch KSA Company, Merrill Lynch Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Company, regulated by the Capital Market Authority.

OS merrill Lynch GEMs Paper #26 | 30 June 2016 83

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016193
