Before the 1979 revolution, religious fundamentalists were revolted by images of scantily
clad Iranian women in the country's cinema and television; today, state television and
cinema are forbidden from showing unveiled Iranian women. This is despite the fact that
most of the country's citizens have access to the much more tawdry fare on satellite TV
(the dishes are officially illegal, but thought to be smuggled in by the Islamic
Revolutionary Guard Corps itself). In the forthcoming documentary The Iran Job, Kevin
Sheppard, an American who played basketball in Iran's professional leagues, is shocked
while surfing his newly connected satellite television. We have 600 channels,” he

remarks, 400 of them are sex!

Because of its religious pretensions, however, the Iranian regime is forced to spend untold
millions of dollars trying to jam satellite TV broadcasts to prevent them from reaching the
country's citizens -- a futile attempt to simultaneously repel the forces of both technology

and human nature. In an interview with the New Yorker several years ago, an Iranian

security official candidly assessed the challenge at hand:

The majority of the population is young.... Young people by nature are horny. Because they
are horny, they like to watch satellite channels where there are films or programs they can
jerk off to.... We have to do something about satellite television to keep society free from

this horny jerk-off situation.

One might assume a country that suffers from chronic inflation and unemployment -- not
to mention harsh international sanctions and a potential war over its nuclear program --
would have better things to do than discourage its youth from masturbating. Yet the
regime continues to pour hundreds of millions of dollars into Chinese censorship
technology to create a moral Iron Dome against political and cultural subversion, with
decidedly mixed results. Piped-in BBC Persian and Voice of America television are
sometimes successfully scrambled, but those who want pornography have no shortage of
outlets. That said, the censorship software sometimes get a bit overzealous. One Iranian
friend told me of repeated unsuccessful attempts to access his British university's email
account from Tehran, only to realize that the school's apparently bawdy name -- Essex --

was prohibited by the regime's Internet filters.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026555
