lower pension expense as it reduces the overall discounted pension liability given
that BBT remains one of the few large regional banks that still have defined benefit
pension plans.

* Potential for regulatory relief requires BBT to reevaluate risk/compliance
spending. Management noted that 75-80% of its infrastructure budget is based
around risk management and regulatory costs. Given the possibility of regulatory
relief coming out of the new administration, management noted that it does not
want to misallocate its expense spending. As such, management expects to
redeploy some of those compliance related costs into revenue and service
generation opportunities stemming from any regulatory relief.

¢ Branches still have value, but the structure will likely change. Mr. Henson noted
that he still sees value from BBT’s branch network but increasing customer usage
across its digital channels and with branch transactions down 4%, he expects
continued branch consolidation at a pace of more than 2-2.5% over the next couple
years. Moreover, management believes that future branches will be likely be
smaller in nature and staffed with fewer people that are cross trained with multiple
responsibilities. As an example of this, Mr. Henson noted that BBT has combined its
teller and relationship banking role into one branch banker role.

Chart 18: What do you think is the biggest catalyst for BBT shares over the next 12-24 months?

45% 41%
40%
35%
30%
25%
20%
15%
10%
5%
0%

Successful Strong top-line Expense Accretive bank Continued
integration ofits organic revenue rationalization and/or non-bank outperformance in
recent deals and growth, regardless deals dividend growth

achieving synergy of macro backdrop and dividend yield
targets

Source: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research

Bank of Hawaii (BOH), B-3-7, Underperform

* Solid loan growth on back of a strong HI economy. Chairman, President and CEO
Peter Ho, Vice Chairman and CFO Kent Lucien and Senior Executive VP, Controller
and Principal Accounting Officer Dean Shigemura were generally upbeat with
regards to the operating outlook as we enter 2017. Management guided to
achieving low double digit loan growth on the back of a robust Hawaiian economy.
While management expects some moderation in C&l growth following a strong 3Q
it sounded upbeat around the lending outlook given fairly healthy tourism activity.
Management noted that while a de-emphasis on the Pacific Alliance, a priority for
the Obama administration, was not a positive development, it remained fairly
confident that strong military spending should continue to serve as a tailwind to the
Hawaiian economy.

= Credit outlook remains benign. Mr. Ho affirmed the credit environment has been
benign and believes BOH’s strong credit will remain intact in the near future. As
loan growth improves, Mr. Ho acknowledged provisions should follow a similar
trend, but nothing on the horizon suggests credit will worsen anytime soon.
Management acknowledged reserve balances are hard to predict, but believes the

12 2016 Future of Financials Conference | 17 November 2016 Bankof America 2
Merrill Lynch

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014326
