In re Terrorist Attacks on September 11, 2001, 392 F.Supp.2d 539 (2005)
10 A.L.R. Fed. 2d 789

[25]

[26]

[27]

[28]

Aliens, Immigration, and Citizenship
Torture victim protection

Complaint brought under Torture Victim
Protection Act (TVPA), alleging that various
Islamic charities and organizations provided
support for terrorist organization responsible for
September 11th attacks, failed to state a claim;
TVPA provided a cause of action only against

[29]
individuals. 28 U.S.C.A. § 1350.

2 Cases that cite this headnote

Aliens, Immigration, and Citizenship
Torture victim protection

Absent any allegation that named defendants
were acting under color of state law, action
brought under Torture Victim Protection Act
(TVPA), alleging that various individuals
provided support for September 11th attacks,

failed to state a claim. 28 U.S.C.A. § 1350. o

2 Cases that cite this headnote

Limitation of Actions
Injuries to person

Claims, under New York law, for assault and
battery and intentional infliction of emotional
distress, asserted in action alleging provision of
support for September 11th attacks, were
time-barred. N.Y.McKinney’s CPLR 215(3).

Cases that cite this headnote

[31]

Negligence

Necessity and Existence of Duty
Negligence

Protection against acts of third persons

Negligence claims, in action under New York
law arising out of September 11th attacks,

WESTLAW

would be dismissed for failure to state claims
inasmuch as they failed to allege or identify duty
owed to plaintiffs by defendants.

1 Cases that cite this headnote

War and National Emergency
Private Remedies

Allegation that defendant provided a satellite
phone battery to leader of terrorist organization
responsible for September 11th attacks
sufficiently stated a claim under Antiterrorism
Act (ATA), for purposes of action alleging
provision of support for terrorists involved in
those attacks. 18 U.S.C.A. § 2339A(b).

1 Cases that cite this headnote

Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations

@ Association with or participation in
enterprise; control or intent

Complaint which failed to allege that defendant
participated in the operation or management of
any enterprise thus failed to state a claim under
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations
Act (RICO), for purposes of action alleging
provision of support for terrorists involved in
September 11th attacks. 18 U.S.C.A. § 1961 et

seq.

Cases that cite this headnote

War and National Emergency
@~Private Remedies

Complaint which failed to allege that defendant
took any action that could be considered the
provision of material support for terrorist
organization responsible for the September 11th
attacks thus failed to state a clatm under the
Antiterrorism Act (ATA), for purposes of action
alleging provision of support for terrorists

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017909
