ACKRELL
CAPITAL

Cannabis Investment Report | December 2017

Business Solutions Outlook

The cannabis industry presents a significant market opportunity for software and services providers
because of the large number of potential new clients and the need for industry-specific solutions. In
particular, we believe that substantial opportunities exist for providers of industry-specific, platform
and “big data” solutions. We also believe that financial, legal and compliance service providers that have
developed knowledge of the cannabis industry are well positioned for growth. Similar to the produc-
tion segment, large software and services companies serving traditional industries have been reluctant
to enter the cannabis market due to concerns over the regulatory landscape. While this dynamic has
created a short-term opportunity for some smaller companies, as the regulatory environment becomes
clearer we expect competition in this segment to increase significantly as large companies enter the
market.

= Digital Media

The digital media segment of the cannabis industry includes digital content, networking and directory
platforms. Digital media providers do not “touch the plant” and generally do not need a cannabis-
related license or permit. Digital media focused on cannabis is a niche sector within the broader digital
media market. Companies in this segment compete for viewers and subscribers and generally draw
revenue from content licensing fees, service fees, advertisement fees and subscription fees. They provide
a broad range of content and networking tools, including news related to the cannabis industry and
legalization efforts, humor and entertainment focused on the cannabis-user demographic, traditional
media and branding services, social networking tools that allow users to share pictures and information
related to their cannabis activities, and business directory tools that connect industry participants.

Cannabis Digital Media

58 © 2017 Ackrell Capital, LLC | Member FINRA/SIPC

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024694
