218 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

by anyone but the intended recipient. However, wouldn't it be equally
valuable to know if someone other than the recipient had intercepted
and read the message? This is the trick quantum cryptography gives us.

Taking a measurement with a quantum device disturbs the system
so measurements can be taken only once with the same results. By the
same logic, I could send you a message and if someone else has read it in
the meantime, you will know. I could arrange to meet with you in Berlin
and if you detect the message has been intercepted, you could simply not
show up.

I could use this same technique to send you a one-time pad. If you
receive it without it being overheard, I could then safely send you an
encrypted message. In 2007, this technique was used to transmit the
results of a Swiss election from the polling booths to the central counting
center.

Enigma

World War II accelerated the evolution of encryption from simple
substitutions a human could perform to complex ciphers only a machine
could calculate. You might wonder why everyone does not use a one-
time-pad since it is a perfect code. The problem is distributing and
maintaining the pads while keeping them secret. My daughter cracked
my earlier code because she knows my laptop password, broke in, and
read the answer. That’s the problem with codes — security. The pads
could be sent out in sealed envelopes but it would be easy to intercept an
envelope, copy the pad and reseal it. You would then have a perfect and
undetectable way to break the code. Also, if I were an Admiral wanting
to communicate with my fleet of submarines I would need a huge pad
— one page for every message I want to send — and either a pad for each
submarine or one pad for all submarines. If I use only one pad, then I
cannot talk to a submarine privately, and if any pad were lost all security
would be breached. One-time-pads were used by both sides during
World War Two, and often printed on nitrocellulose — a chemical similar
to the explosive nitroglycerine. This allowed users to burn the codebooks
quickly if an enemy threatened to capture them.

Both the Americans and British captured Enigma machines and
codebooks during the war. A Navy Enigma machine was a sought-after
prize, as it was more complex than the Army version, with extra dials
and plug settings. To crack the more sophisticated codes Bletchley Park

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015908
