“Enough debate,” the guard said. “This is private property and CPAC wants you off the
property.”
Relieved of his credentials, Spencer was ushered to the CPAC perimeter of the hotel,

where, his pride not all that wounded, he turned, in the comfort of the atrium lounge area,
to social media and to texting and emailing reporters on his contact list.

The point Spencer was making was that his presence here was not really so disruptive
or ironic as Bannon’s, or, for that matter, Trump’s. He might be ejected, but in a larger
historical sense it was the conservatives who were now being ejected from their own
movement by the new cadre—which included Trump and Bannon—of what Spencer
called the identitarians, proponents of “white interests, values, customs, and culture.”

Spencer was, he believed, the true Trumper and the rest of CPAC now the outliers.

OOK Ok

In the green room, after Bannon, Priebus, and their retinues had arrived, Bannon—in dark
shirt, dark jacket, and white pants—stood off to the side talking to his aide, Alexandra
Preate. Priebus sat in the makeup chair, patiently receiving a layer of foundation, powder,
and lip gloss.

“Steve—’ said Priebus, gesturing to the chair as he got up.

“That’s okay,” said Bannon. He put up his hand, making another of the continual small
gestures meant, pointedly, to define himself as something other than every phony baloney
in swampland politics—and something other than Reince Priebus, with his heavy powder
foundation.

The significance of Bannon’s first appearance in public—after days of apparent West
Wing turmoil, a 7Zime magazine cover story about him, nearly endless speculation about
his power and true intentions, and his elevation at least in the media mind to the essential
mystery of the Trump White House—could hardly be underestimated. For Bannon himself
this was, in his own mind, a carefully choreographed moment. It was his victory walk. He
had, he thought, prevailed in the West Wing. He had, again in his own mind, projected his
superiority over both Priebus and the idiot son-in-law. And he would now dominate
CPAC. But for the moment he attempted a shucks-nothing-to-it lack of self-consciousness
even as, at the same time, he was unquestionably the preening man of the hour. Demurring
about accepting makeup was not just a way to belittle Priebus, but also a way to say that,
ever the commando, he went into battle fully exposed.

“You know what he thinks even when you don’t know what he thinks,” explained
Alexandra Preate. “He’s a bit like a good boy who everybody knows is a bad boy.”

When the two men emerged onto the stage and appeared on the big-screen monitors,
the contrast between them could hardly have been greater. The powder made Priebus look
mannequin-like, and his suit with lapel pin, little-boyish. Bannon, the supposedly

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019982
