JAMES PATTERSON

Association. By all outward appearances, he could afford it: sev-
enty lawyers worked in his firm, which had offices in Florida,
New York, and Venezuela. But Rothstein's millions actually
came from a $1.2 billion Ponzi scheme he’d been running since
2005.

In April of 2009, Bradley Edwards joined Rothstein's firm.
The lawyer brought his papers along, and Rothstein showed
those pertaining to Epstein to potential investors. In exchange
for a lump sum up front, Rothstein said, investors would receive
a far larger chunk of money later, which Epstein would pay in
future settlements.

Edwards and Rothstein both say that Edwards had no knowl-
edge whatsoever of the Ponzi scheme. (Prosecutors, and the
Florida Bar, agree.) Edwards left as soon as he caught wind of the
scheme, in November of 2009. But the few months he spent in
Rothstein’s company gave Dershowitz the opening he needed to
pry open Virginia Roberts's accusations.

It was at Edwards's insistence, Dershowitz would say, as well
as Paul Cassell’s, that Virginia Roberts added Dershowitz's name
to the list of men she claimed had abused her.

According to Dershowitz, he'd been pulled into a billion-dollar
extortion plot Edwards had hatched. And for Edwards and Cas-
sell, there had been a secondary benefit: Dershowitz had helped
to work out Epstein’s confidential non-prosecution agreement
with the government. By implicating him directly in Epstein’s

abuse of underage women, Dershowitz claimed, Edwards and ~

Cassell were trying to “open up” that agreement.
It might have been a Hail Mary pass on the part of

Dershowitz.
But the argument had its own internal logic.

268

AG
ae

Alan 4

The idea that Bradley Edy
blackmail Leslie Wexner—
no less— sounds highly ir
that Edwards had worked
running his own billion-dc
Edwards may not have

files on Jeffrey Epstein ai
Edwards's proximity to Roth
been as damaging as Dersh
but it was damaging noneth
he needed to make his argu
argument was that it wasn’
plot to blackmail Wexner. !
after was the idea that a |
non-prosecution agreement wi:
erts. That would give Edwa
agreement open. And in that
pressuring Virginia Roberts |
Perhaps it wasn’t, in this

felt reluctant to mention De
matter of the three hundred
she would stand to gain. Ar
that goes to set up a charity
Dershowitz had thrown out
genius move on Edwards's pa
whole psychological picture :
for lying about Dershowitz, s

; battered women she’d end up

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022165
