miniaturized electronics box strapped to their belts, some of Robert Heath’s
schizophrenic patients spent hours pressing their switches with beatifically
expectant smiles.

It was after several months of cat experiments that Professor Heath
suggested that we spend some time interviewing a hospitalized, chronically ill
female patient, Donna, before and during the time she was being studied with
recording and stimulating depth electrodes in the human _ neurophysiology
laboratory. Donna, bony thin in a lose fitting green hospital gown and sandals, had
dark red toenails, blonde hair and eyes shadowed darkly. In her mid-thirties, she
had never married and, when she could, worked as a beautician. She told us that
since her menarche at 13, she increasingly often had episodes of spontaneous
ecstatic rushes along with sudden visions of strong white light. She attributed these
experiences to visitations of “...an unseen Christ.” She showed me a stack of
notebooks filled with hand written accounts of her religious experiences
interspersed with biblical quotations and difficult to follow discussions of what she
called the Christian ideals underlying the Civil War. She read parts of it to us. One
of her memorable stories was about being invited to a Children’s Crusade that had
begun in Georgia, led by a great grandson of Stonewall Jackson. “We were trying to
find the Lord to see if He would part the waters and open up an escape route from
General Sherman’s march to the sea.”

From a relatively poor family of Southern Baptists in rural Louisiana, she had
lived in a state psychiatric hospital for almost three years. Her diagnoses ranged
from borderline schizophrenia to temporal lobe epilepsy. The collateral interviews
with her mother from several years before had been placed in the hospital chart.
They recounted that in the patient’s middle to late teens she had become suddenly
promiscuous, frequently approaching strange men in city parks. Obsessed with
fellatio and swallowing sperm, she told her mother that she was receiving a holy
sacrament. More recently, the increasing incidence of ecstatic episodes and
compulsive note taking coincided with the complete loss of interest in sexuality in
any form. Her talk was now full of moralizing detail about the shoulds and should

nots of daily living. She referred to herself as a non-Catholic nun who was married

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013517
