its

‘Teciprocaly ©
ees ‘

sympathetic | ghigher!”
he artateck 4 E
2
Chapter 5°

Psychosomatic Relations: From
Superstition to Mortality

People have many sources of
information, knowledge and

The lead author is Gary G. Berntson, Ph.D., a
Professor of Psychology, Psychiatry and
Pediatrics and a member of the Neurosciences
Graduate Faculty at the Ohio State University.
He is a co-founder (with John Cacioppo) of the
field of social neuroscience, is a co-editor of the
Handbook of Psychophysiology and the
Handbook of Neuroscience for the Behavioral
Sciences, and 1s the President of the Society for
Psychophysiological Research. Berntson’s
research focuses on the evolutionary
development of the neuraxis, with special regard
to levels of organization in neurobehavioral
systems, affective processes and autonomic
regulation. He has published over 200 articles in
scientific outlets and six books.

Berntson begins with the fact that
knowledge, thoughts and beliefs can influence
our behaviors. Behaviors, of course, are
physiological processes entailing neural
operations and muscular actions. Here we see a
clear intersection between the psychological
domain on the one hand (knowledge, thoughts
and beliefs) and the physical domain
(neuromuscular effector systems) on the other.
But mind-body relations extend beyond the
observable actions or skeletal muscles. The mind
and its organ, the brain, also impact powerfully
on internal bodily functions associated with the
autonomic nervous system, the endocrine
system, and the immune system, to name just a
few. Through these interactions, psychological
processes can be translated in outcomes that have
powerful significance for adaptation and health.
Berntson explores the processes by which
thoughts can manifest in fundamental changes in
internal physiology and health.

Page |50

understanding. We consider the most
common of these to be empirically
acquired, learned facts, relations,
associations, and perceptual and motor
skills. Such learned associations serve as
powerful determinants of thought and
behavior. But other sources of
information and knowledge also affect
our interaction with the environment,
including reflex-like (constitutionally
endowed) circuits that are independent
of explicit learning. Examples include
central networks for pain withdrawal,
hunger circuits for the ingestion of
essential nutrients, social affiliation
networks, and neural systems that
promote maternal bonding. Each of
these sources of information or
knowledge can impact thoughts and
beliefs, and thoughts and beliefs can
impact behaviors and other bodily
functions.

“_.a Maori woman who,

having eaten some fruit, was told that it
had been taken

from a tabooed place; she
exclaimed that the sanctity of the chief
had been profaned

and that his spirit would kill
her ... the next day ... she was
dead.”(1)

“T have seen a strong young
man die .... the same day he was tapued

(tabooed); the victims die
under it as though their strength ran out
as water. . .”(1)

A superstition is a belief, based
not on reason or knowledge, but on
legend, magical thinking, or other non-
rational basis. Beliefs color the way we
perceive the world, they direct and shape
our actions, and define our personalities.
Beliefs are powerful determinants of
action. A useful illustration of the power
of beliefs comes from the parable of the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021296
