202 Teaching Minds

how teaching occurs in a great university. (There are exceptions to this,
of course. In engineering, agriculture, and even in journalism, practice
does occur. But it always occurs in the presence of lots of theory.)

University professors are not practitioners. Usually they don’t
know a thing about how what they teach actually is used in the real
world, never having been in the real world themselves, so they have
created a culture where theories and ideas are considered to be more
important than simply being able to do something. So one reason his
class would have to go is that it inevitably would be seen as threaten-
ing to the other faculty.

Another reason that it threatens the other faculty is that it is a
lot of work to do what he did. He was there all day. Professors teach
3 hours a week, 6 if they aren’t superstars. No one wants to see a new
standard of teaching created that is both practical and takes a long
time to do. When would the professors do their research and write
their books? This man didn’t have that agenda. He just wanted to
teach. There is no room for that in a top-tier university.

And, how would this class fit in a student’s schedule? Students can’t
spend all day at something without missing those important required
classes that meet 3 times a week for an hour. Totally consuming classes
that take all day, and may even take all week, cannot possibly exist.

Two years later this man was gone.

It is actually very difficult to change the way a university runs, and
this includes trying to change any aspect of how courses are offered
or structured.

I learned this when I took on the job of building a new West Coast
campus for Carnegie Mellon University. (By building, I mean design-
ing its offerings, not its buildings.) As I am an advocate of learning by
doing, in just the way our former network head was doing in his class,
I decided that there would be no courses, only projects, and that each
project would build on the one that preceded it. The administration
in Pittsburgh let me get away with this precisely because there were no
faculty hired in California and the Pittsburgh faculty wouldn’t much
notice what we were doing 2,000 miles away.

We had to lie to the registrar about what we were doing because
courses had to be in parallel to make it into their system and we
weren’t offering courses at all. The projects had to be labeled as cours-
es, but they varied in length (not every project takes the same amount
of time). These “courses” ran in sequence not parallel, so we basically
had to lie about it to get by the registrar.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023948
