11/14/2017 An Inside Look at Rockefeller & Co. - Barron's

and their assets intact over several Apple’s ‘Secular’ Problem, Per T Rowe
generations and right through the * Price
upheavals of history.

5 - Shopping Day Madness! Why Investors
Any new clients will be dealing with Aren’t Crazy for Alibaba

Rockefeller Financial Services, the trade
name of Rockefeller & Co. Some $7 billion SEE FULL LIST
of Rockefeller Financial's $35 billion pile
are assets under management; the rest
are assets under advisement or
administration. Rockefeller provides its 1 Bitcoin: The

298 clients either financial, trust, and tax World’s Most
advice, and the like, or service through its Dramatic Bubble
portfolio-tracking product for wealthy Ever?

families, Rockit Solutions.

Latest Market Videos

Rockefeller offers financial products from 2 Barron's Bounce:
other firms but still believes in running its Barbie's Bargain
own funds in 10 core areas, such as Shares
: global equities and fixed income. David
Reuben Jeffery Ill, Rockefeller Harris, Rockefeller's chief investment
Financial's CEO Evan Kafka for officer, says large multinationals with their ‘ A
Barron's . , . 3 D.Live: Tapping
triple-A ratings and mountains of cash Asia's Tech Boom
need to be viewed as the new sovereigns during a period when government finances
are deteriorating. The firm claims that its global funds are stars, but it keeps a lid on
details. Prodded by Penta, Rockefeller reluctantly produced a confidential
performance sheet on its 10 core funds but barred us from publishing the results. We
can confirm that out of 10 offerings, seven global-equity and small-cap funds have
consistently outperformed indexes over long periods of time.

One area of Rockefeller & Co. know-how has been built out of the Rockefeller family's
50-year record of integrating environmental, social, and governance concerns into its
portfolio and investment decisions. Last fall, for example, Rockefeller hooked up with
the Ocean Foundation, a nonprofit focused on marine conservation, to find profitable
investment opportunities that restore and support the health and sustainability of the
world's oceans.

Through such distinctive offerings, Jeffery hopes to reel in new money, both family and
institutional. We're talking to sovereign entities, he says. They have pools of capital
that need to be deployed, and they need to find competent, trustworthy managers in
[relevant] areas of investment activity.

Fees for managed assets invested in house funds typically run from 1% (for up to $25
million in assets) to 0.5% (over $50 million). Rockefeller targets families with $30
million; new clients are generally subject to a minimum $100,000 annual fee. Pure
investment advice on a $50 million to $100 million portfolio typically costs 40 to 60 basis
points, says the firm's president, Austin V. Shapard. Rockefeller has priced its services,
he says, for a fair profit margin, not a crazy one.

Portfolio-tracking service Rockit deftly handles exotics like intrafamily loans and the
fluctuating price of ranch cattle. Its 23 clients typically pay 3 to 7 basis points on the $13
billion that runs through the Rockit platform. This, too, is a hidden asset that Jeffery is
leveraging into a boutique powerhouse.

E-mail: editors@barrons.com

Email Print 0 Comments Order Reprints

Latest in Barron's Penta

1, Luxury Boot Camp: Four Days at Ranch 4.0

2. Howto Buy a Used Jet At a Bargain Price

http:/Awww.barrons.com/articles/SB50001 424053111904881 40457760931 2447134388 2/3

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012100
