we're stuck and losing and nobody here has a plan to do much better than that.”

Though there was still no hint of a viable alternative strategy in Afghanistan, Bannon,
his Jarvanka frustration cresting, was sure he was the winner here. McMaster was toast.

7 OK Ok

Later on the day of the Afghanistan briefing, Bannon heard about yet another harebrained
Jarvanka scheme. They planned to hire Anthony Scaramucci, aka “the Mooch.”

After Trump had clinched the nomination more than a year before, Scaramucci—a
hedge funder and go-to Trump surrogate for cable business news (mostly Fox Business
Channel)—had become a reliable presence at Trump Tower. But then, in the last month of
the campaign, with polls predicting a humiliating Trump defeat, he was suddenly nowhere
to be seen. The question “Where’s the Mooch?” seemed to be just one more indicator of
the campaign’s certain and pitiless end.

But on the day after the election, Steve Bannon—soon to be named chief strategist for
the forty-fifth president-elect—was greeted as he arrived midmorning in Trump Tower by
Anthony Scaramucci, holding a Starbucks coffee for him.

Over the next three months, Scaramucci, although no longer needed as a surrogate and
without anything else particularly to do, became a constant hovering—or even lurking—
presence at Trump Tower. Ever unflagging, he interrupted a meeting in Kellyanne
Conway’s office in early January just to make sure she knew that her husband’s firm,
Wachtell, Lipton, was representing him. Having made that point, name-dropping and
vastly praising the firm’s key partners, he then helped himself to a chair in Conway’s
meeting and, for both Conway’s and her visitor’s benefit, offered a stirring testimonial to
the uniqueness and sagacity of Donald Trump and the working-class people—speaking of
which, he took the opportunity to provide a résumé of his own Long Island working-class
bona fides—who had elected him.

Scaramucci was hardly the only hanger-on and job seeker in the building, but his
method was among the most dogged. He spent his days looking for meetings to be invited
into, or visitors to engage with—this was easy because every other job seeker was looking
for someone with whom to chat it up, so he soon became something like the unofficial
official greeter. Whenever possible, he would grab a few minutes with any senior staffer
who would not rebuff him. As he waited to be offered a high White House position, he
was, he seemed personally certain, reaffirming his loyalty and team spirit and unique
energy. He was so confident about his future that he made a deal to sell his hedge fund,
Skybridge Capital, to HNA Group, the Chinese megaconglomerate.

Political campaigns, substantially based on volunteer help, attract a range of silly,
needy, and opportunistic figures. The Trump campaign perhaps scraped lower in the barrel
than most. The Mooch, for one, might not have been the most peculiar volunteer in the
Trump run for president, but many figured him to be among the most shameless.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020087
