decide the religion of his state. The treaties that settled this debate in 1648 - after
the most devastating wars in European history at that time - established Cuius regio,
elus religio as the governing principle. Whose realm, whose religion. The very notion
of a “state” is itself being eroded as topologies, migrations, and superfast data links
eat at old borders. But nations remain an essential container of power. A rapid
collapse of that system would be a disaster, and is frankly unlikely. To be American.
French. Chinese. This still matters.

Do we demand that other nations use our protocols? Do we force China or Germany
to rules of transparency, data tracking of their citizens and research that we obey?
No. Cuius reticulum, eius reticulum. Whose realm, whose network. But, at the same
time, should we permit China or Germany to force another nation into its trading
regime? It’s biological or cyber networks? To the question, “What would America
fight against in a gatekept world?” one answer is this: We would resist any attempt
to force-fit a nation to a gated order. We should prepare for difficult, expensive
fights to maintain this principle. Russia watching neighboring states seduced into a
Chinese trading order or an American technological system won’t bubble with silent
acquiescence. Arrangements that tilt trade to one side of the Pacific will unnerve
China or Japan - or the US. But, in the end, the control logic of cuius reticulum buffers
us, as a sort of law, against a wilder madness of collapsed nations.

Fifth, we should not permit the emergence of any means to destroy our system. The
very efficiency of connected architectures makes them vulnerable. Networks, by
design, have holes that particular modes of attack can exploit. Contagion. Strikes
against central nodes.?49 Arms racing of a certain type. Our first attempt to limit risk
should be defensive. Better gates. But we'd be foolish to stop there. Gates, the
Trojans would remind us, are not enough. When truly existential dangers emerge -
nuclear weapons, certain types of artificial intelligence or genetic engineering - then
we must attack. Hard Gatekeeping should include a coiled, prepared readiness to
strike with the same light-speed movement that defines the dangers we fear. Of
course we should try to deter such attacks. But we should be realistic. There’s much
we can’t deter. And the cost of attack is awfully cheap. We won't be truly safe
without battle plans and diplomatic gambits that can hammer at the topological and
real world vulnerabilities of our enemies. After all, they will be hammering on ours.

Our defense task is simple to say, hard to achieve: From the largest symmetrical
superpower in history, America needs to become the greatest asymmetrical one -
capable of devastating, instant action anywhere in the real or topological world.
Network scientists who study the power of “centrality” have shown the way that
certain positions in a topology - think of a rainforest, a travel network or a stock
exchange - wield unusual influence. Centrality of a certain node in linked systems
can determine control, it can produce “super spreaders” which instantly shape

249 Strikes against: I.A. Kovacs, A-L. Barabasi, “Destruction Perfected,” Nature
(News & Views) 2015, 524, 38-39

176

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018408
