the Kushner side, thus sacrificing Don Jr. in an attempt to deflect responsibility away from
themselves.

OOK Ok

Even before word of the June 2016 meeting leaked out, Kushner’s legal team—largely
assembled in a rush since the appointment of Mueller, the special counsel—had been
piecing together a forensic picture of both the campaign’s Russian contacts and Kushner
Companies’ finances and money trail. In January, ignoring almost everybody’s caution
against it, Jared Kushner had entered the White House as a senior figure in the
administration; now, six months later, he faced acute legal jeopardy. He had tried to keep a
low profile, seeing himself as a behind-the-scenes counselor, but now his public position
was not only endangering himself but the future of his family’s business. As long as he
remained exposed, his family was effectively blocked from most financial sources.
Without access to this market, their holdings risked becoming distress debt situations.

Jared and Ivanka’s self-created fantasylike life—two ambitious, well-mannered, well-
liked young people living at the top of New York’s social and financial world after having,
in their version of humble fashion, accepted global power—had now, even with neither
husband nor wife in office long enough to have taken any real action at all, come to the
precipice of disgrace.

Jail was possible. So was bankruptcy. Trump may have been talking defiantly about
offering pardons, or bragging about his power to give them, but that did not solve
Kushner’s business problems, nor did it provide a way to mollify Charlie Kushner, Jared’s
choleric and often irrational father. What’s more, successfully navigating through the eye
of the legal needle would require a careful touch and nuanced strategic approach on the
part of the president—quite an unlikely development.

Meanwhile, the couple blamed everyone else in the White House. They blamed Priebus
for the disarray that had produced a warlike atmosphere that propelled constant and
damaging leaks, they blamed Bannon for leaking, and they blamed Spicer for poorly
defending their virtue and interests.

They needed to defend themselves. One strategy was to get out of town (Bannon had a
list of all the tense moments when the couple had taken a convenient holiday), and it
happened that Trump would be attending the G20 summit Hamburg, Germany, on July 7
and 8. Jared and Ivanka accompanied the president on the trip, and while at the summit
they learned that word of Don Jr.’s meeting with the Russians—and the couple kept
pointedly presenting it as Don Jr.’s meeting—had leaked. Worse, they learned that the
story was about to break in the New York Times.

Originally, Trump’s staff was expecting details of the Don Jr. meeting to break on the
website Circa. The lawyers, and spokesperson Mark Corallo, had been working to manage
this news. But while in Hamburg, the president’s staff learned that the Zimes was

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020078
