be said to be a revolution of men against women.... The drafters of [the Islamic Penal
Code] had effectively taken us back 1,400 years.

Like Islamists in today's Egypt -- and some among America’s Christian right -- Iran's
revolutionaries found fertile ground on which to play the politics of pious populism, rather
than concretely address the enormous challenges of building a diversified economy. The
country's massive oil wealth made it appear all too easy. Khomeini famously dismissed
economics as for donkeys, and he responded to complaints of inflation by saying, The
revolution wasn't about the price of watermelons. Three decades later, the results are self-
evident: In 1979, resource-rich Iran's GDP was almost double that of resource-poor

Turkey. Today, it is roughly half.

The brutal reality is that Iranians had entrusted their national destiny to a man, Khomeini,
who had spent far more time thinking about the religious penalties for fornicating with

animals than how to run a modern economy.

AFTER HIS DEATH IN 1989, Khomeini was succeeded by the current supreme leader,
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who has remained loyal to Khomeini's vision for Iran, including
his prudishness regarding matters of the flesh. For Khamenei -- who has said that keeping
women in hijab would prevent our society from being plunged into corruption and
turmoil -- outward displays of feminine beauty are viewed not only with religious

disfavor, but as an existential threat to the regime itself.

Khamenei contends that the health of the family unit is integral to the Islamic Republic's
well-being and is undermined by female beauty. Although to some this worldview is
fundamentally misogynistic, Khamenei sees men, not women, as untrustworthy and

incapable of resisting temptation:

In Islam, women have been prohibited from showing off their beauty in order to attract
men or cause fitna [upheaval or sedition]. Showing off one's physical attraction to men is a
kind of fitna ... [for] if this love for beauty and members of the opposite sex is found
somewhere other than the framework of the family, the stability of the family will be

undermined.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026557
