336 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

where the choice of detector orientation was made by a random number
generator after the photons had left the emitter. This shows the photons
really can’t know what they will do before they start their journey. Another
loophole is the loss of some photons. We don’t measure all the photons in
an optical experiment because some are absorbed by the apparatus. It has
been suggested all the ‘lost’ photons make up the error in the experiment.
This is not very likely, it’s akin to assuming all the voters who did not vote
in an election would have voted Democrat. To avoid this criticism, an
experiment has been performed with magnetized particles that don't get
lost. The Bell result holds true.The loopholes are diminishing and it seems
likely Bell will win out in the end.

Although the coordination information appears instantaneous,
John Bell gave us an elegant explanation as to why this does not allow
us to use the effect to transfer information faster than the speed of light.
Imagine we are sitting at opposite ends of a room. We both toss coins and
each of us write down our results; heads, tails, heads, heads and so on.
I then acquire a magical power that causes your coin to make an extra
flip just before you catch it, so it always gives the opposite result to mine.
Although I am now controlling your coin, you cannot tell, as the result
looks as random as before. The difference is simply that at first the coin
orientation was random in its own right and then the opposite of my
random result. It is only when I walk over and compare our results we
can see they are matched in this strange way. There is no way to transmit
information using this effect. Only after the experiment is finished can
we exchange the necessary information to see the coordination that
existed, and that comparison required me to transfer information. The
fastest way to do that is at the speed of light.

Despite saying it is impossible, let us do a thought experiment and
try to transmit information using Morse code. I will set up a simple old
fashion telegraph machine. When I press the telegraph button at my end
this will cause a measurement and the photons at your end will be forced
to the opposite polarization. When I lift the key, your photons will revert
to being randomized. You can see this illustrated in the diagram. Although
I make your photon take up a polarization, analogous to making the coin
take an extra flip, you don’t have enough information to know this.

Now we are ready to use our quantum Morse machine to prove the
Universe must have free will, or at least a degree of non-determinism.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016026
