46 Teaching Minds

What I mean by this, is that there is stuff we can do mentally,
and that learning just means doing that stuff and getting better at it.
Learning is not any one process, but many processes, depending on
what you are learning.

What are the cognitive processes that make up learning? If we
wish to teach people, it is important to ask what cognitive capabilities
we want them to have when we are done, not what we want them to
know. In other words, we want to understand what we have to do in
order to make them better able to think.

In this chapter, we will discuss the kinds of cognitive processes
that people can (and must) learn to do well. Later we will discuss how
to best approach learning and teaching these processes.

There are 12 types of processes outlined here. There may be more
types than these, but with these we pretty much can cover the ground
of what human learning looks like. I have divided them into three
groups: conceptual processes, analytic processes, and social processes. No-
tice first that all the types are types of processes. Thinking is a process.
It is something we do. We need to see what that doing is like.

All these processes require practice in order to master them. You
cannot learn to master a process without practicing it again and again.
Feedback and coaching help one learn.

CONCEPTUAL PROCESSES

1. Prediction: Making a prediction about the outcome of actions

This is experiential learning about everyday behavior in its most
common form—it includes learning about how to travel or eat or get a
date, for example. In its complex form it is how one learns to be a bat-
tlefield commander or a horse race handicapper. One learns through
experience by trial and error. The cognitive issue is building up a large
case base and index that case base according to expectation failures, as
I described in Dynamic Memory. We learn when predictions fail. When
they succeed, we fail to care about them because most of the predic-
tions we make are uninteresting (I predict the room I just left will look
the same when I return). Learning to predict what will happen next
requires repeated practice in each domain of knowledge. There is some

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023792
