Confessions of a Pickup Artist Chaser!

* ok

There's a huge subculture of men who trade tips, tricks, and tactics for seducing women.
Clarisse Thorn, a feminist S&M writer and activist, spent years researching these guys.
She observed their discussions, watched them in action, and learned their strategies. By
the end, she'd given a lecture at a seduction convention. This is her story -- and her
theories about feminism and seduction to boot.

https://www.smashwords.com/books/view/14445 1
In paperback: https://www.createspace.com/3830583

Clarisse's Lectures, Workshops and Events
Thank you so much for reading my work. Now for the hustle!

I'm not just a writer -- I also give lectures and workshops, and organize events. Here's a
short list of some of the lectures, workshops and events I offer. I'm available by email at
clarisse.thorn@gmail.com, if you'd like to bring me in.

TK OK ok

* Confessions of a Pickup Artist Chaser. There's a whole subculture out there devoted
to teaching men how to seduce women. Over the last few years, these underground
pickup artists have slowly surfaced into the popular consciousness, with the help of
bestselling books like Neil Strauss's The Game and hit reality shows like VH1's The
Pick-Up Artist. | spent two years doing on-and-off research into these Casanovas. In this
lecture I discuss my experiences talking to pickup artists, learning their techniques,
understanding their community frameworks and norms, and eventually giving them tips
on how to seduce women... all of which culminated in my book, Confessions of a Pickup
Artist Chaser: Long Interviews With Hideous Men. This presentation was originally
created for a lunchtime talk at the Center for Gender Studies at the University of Chicago,
and I can deliver it in 90 minutes or less.

* Leadership in the Bedroom: A Sexual Communication Workshop. Down-to-earth
tips and ideas on how to communicate clearly about sex. This workshop was originally
requested by the University of Illinois at Chicago, but I've given versions of it at other
venues as well. It was one of the first workshops I ever designed, and I'm currently
working on streamlining it and making it more interactive. I can do it in an hour, but it's
really better with two hours.

* BDSM Overview. Imagery deriving from bondage, discipline, dominance, submission,
and sadomasochism (BDSM) is becoming commonplace -- and we all know (or think we
know) what a dominatrix is -- but most people don't have much idea of what BDSM

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018685
