CHAPTER IV U.S. Legal Landscape

U.S. Legal Relationship between Marijuana and Industrial Hemp

Mature stalks; fiber made from mature stalks;
oil or cake made from seeds; compounds,
Cannabis plant and all parts and manufactures, salts, mixtures, preparations
derivatives except non-marijuana or derivatives of the foregoing parts and
derivatives (except resin extracted from mature
stalks); sterilized seeds

Sis-

Non-Industrial Hemp

« Manufacture, distribution, dispensing « No CSA controls
Cannabis plant and all parts and and possession controlled under CSA
derivatives except industrial hemp * No Farm Bill exception to CSA * Farm Bill exception to CSA moot

Industrial Hemp
* Manufacture, distribution, dispensing « No CSA controls
and possession controlled under CSA

Cannabis plant and any part with THC (but subject to Farm Bill exception)
concentration not more than 0.3% on F . . ; ;
a dry weight basis « Farm Bill exception to CSA controls: « Farm Bill exception to CSA moot

state-legal cultivation by an institution of
higher education or a state department
of agriculture for research

Industrial hemp can be used to produce CBD oil, an extract of the cannabis plant with a high
concentration of cannabidiol (CBD) but little or no psychoactive THC. CBD oil is believed to have a
range of medicinal benefits and therapeutic applications. Some have argued that the Farm Bill federally
legalizes the production and sale of CBD oil. However, it is unclear whether CBD oil produced from
industrial hemp is itself considered industrial hemp (the CSA defines marijuana by reference to the
cannabis plant, parts of the plant and derivatives of the plant, whereas the Farm Bill exception to the
CSA defines industrial hemp by reference only to the plant and parts of the plant, but does not men-
tion derivatives). Even if CBD oil is considered industrial hemp and may be lawfully produced under
the Farm Bill, only institutions of higher education and state departments of agriculture are authorized
to produce it, and then only for purposes of agricultural or academic research; thus the Farm Bill likely
does not create a CSA exception broad enough for large-scale commercial production and distribution
of CBD oil within the United States.

Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act

The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FD&C Act) is a federal law enacted in 1938 (and since
amended multiple times) that authorizes the FDA to regulate the safety and effectiveness of drugs and
medical devices and the safety of food, tobacco products and cosmetics. The FD&C Act prohibits the
“adulteration or misbranding” of any drug, medical device, food, tobacco product or cosmetic (which
the act generally refers to as “articles”) in interstate commerce and prohibits interstate commerce in any
such adulterated or misbranded article. The FD&C Act also prohibits the “introduction or delivery for

© 2017 Ackrell Capital, LLC | Member FINRA/SIPC 73

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024709
