The vasi majority of KLC’s net revenues are derived from center operations. The trends and drivers
discussed below relate to such center operations.

KEC derives its net revenues primarily from the tuition it charges for attendance by children at its centers.
KLC’s tuition rates and net revenues can be significantly impacted by the enrollment characteristics at its
centers. Key factors include (1) geographic location, because KLC can command higher tuition rates in
certain geographic areas; (2) the age mix of children enrolled, because tuition rates depend on the age of
the child and are generally higher for younger children; (3) the mix between full- and part-time attendance,
because KLC charges comparatively higher rates for part-time enrollment and (4) the level of participation
in government subsidy and discount programs.

KLC calculates its average weekly tuition rate as the actual tuition charged at centers that are open at the
calculation date, net of discounts, for a specified time period, divided by average “full-time equivalents,” or
FTEs for the related time period. KLC’s FTEs are calculated by dividing net revenue by the center's
undiscounted average pre-schocl tuition rate. FTEs do not necessarily reflect the actual number of full-
and part-time children enrolled,

Tuition rates at KLC's centers are typically adjusted once per year to coincide with the back-to-school
period. KLC typically collects tuition on a weekly basis in advance, the majority of which is paid by
individual families. KLC provides discounts to government agencies, employees, families with multiple
enrollments, referral sources and organizations KLC partners with for its employer-sponsored centers. In
its employer-sponsored centers, tuition may be partly subsidized by such employers.

Approximately 20% of KLC’s net revenues are derived from tuition paid at varying levels of subsidy by
government agencies. KLC's revenues are therefore affected by changes in the levels of government
support for education, which are negatively impacted by weak economic conditions and resulting budget
pressure at federal, state and local governments.

KLC reports comparable center revenue trends based on the centers (other than the employer-sponsored
centers operated for a management fee) that were open in both periods. Comparable center net revenues
do not include revenues generated from centers that have been closed or sold.

Utilization is a measure of the utilization of center capacity. KLC calculates utilization as the total actual
child care revenues earned at centers that are open at the calculation date divided by the total potential
child care revenue (based upon the center’s undiscounted pre-school tuition rate and the center’s total
licensed capacity) during the related time period.

in addition to tuition charges, KLC records revenues from fees and other income in a majority of its
centers. KLC charges a reservation fee, typically at half of the normal tuition charge, for any full week that
an enrolled child is absent from its centers. KLC also collects registration fees and fees to cover
educational supplies at the time of enroilment and annually thereafter. KLC offers tutorial programs on a
supplemental fee basis in the majority of our centers in the areas of literacy and reading, foreign
language, mathematics and music. KLC also offers field trips, predominantly during the summer months,
for an additional charge. KLC’s centers earn other miscellaneous revenue from various sources, including
management fees related to certain employer-sponsored centers. In addition to its child care operations,
KLC’s subsidiary, KC Distance Learning, sells high school level courses via online and correspondence
formats and provides related instructional services directly to private students, as well as to cyber and
traditional schocls and school districts.

Cost of Revenue -— Trends and Drivers
KLC’s costs of revenue include the direct costs related to the operations of its centers. Labor related costs
are the largest component of costs of revenue. KLC’s timé management and scheduling systems, which

enable us to adjust staffing levels for peak and reduced attendance periods, allow KLC to manage its
labor productivity without adversely impacting the quality of services within its centers.

76

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024509
