James PATTERSON

if Epstein’s legal team had wanted to remove Weiss from the
case, this would have been a good way to do it.

Nine days later, Detective Recarey met with ASA Lanna

Belohlavek, who told him that her boss, Barry Krischer, had asked
her again to take the case to the grand jury. Recarey told Belohlavek
that he had already requested arrest warrants for Epstein, Sarah Kel-
len, and Wendy Dobbs. The Palm Beach PD had finished its investi-
gation months earlier, he said, and had been waiting since then for
the case to move forward. He asked her once more to issue the war-
rants. Once again Belohlavek declined, saying that the original offer
her office had made to Epstein’s old lawyer had been resubmitted to
the new lawyer. When Epstein’s reply came, she would call.

While waiting for that call, Recarey received several calls
from Mary’s father, who told him that he was being followed by a
green Chevrolet Monte Carlo—tailed so aggressively that other
vehicles were being run off the road. Recarey ran the plates and
found that the Chevy was registered to one Zachary Bechard of
Jupiter, Florida.

Bechard was a licensed private eye.

“A funny thing happened in Palm Beach,” says Tim Malloy, who
was working as a TV newscaster in South Florida at the time.
“This would have been right around the time that Michael
Reiter sent his letter asking Barry Krischer to recuse himself
from the case. I didn’t even know what Epstein looked like,

really, at the time. We had pictures taken by the British tabloids, ;
where the link to Prince Andrew first broke. But we didn’t have ~
too many of them. What we did have was a contact in the hangat 4

where Epstein kept his 727.

176

Fit

“I don’t know how much y
national Airport. It’s the kind
valet parking, and waiting low
you'll see in Manhattan. It’s z
Saudi princes, heads of state. F
vacy. You can bring limousine.
out Epstein was very secretive :
want anyone to know the tail n
“But our contact didn’t like
how young the girls around Ep
had the 727’s tail number, an
someone I won't say too mucl
flight plan for a certain trip hi
going to land at the airport. A)
the station's traffic helicopter a
hundred feet a quarter mile sou
“Our cameraman had a tele
tight shot, on video, of Epstein
did get the shot: Epstein, with
flipped up over his neck, about
that was waiting for him.
“Then he saw our helicopter
“I was doing a live voice-ove
first video anyone had on him 1
run back onto the plane. The:
break, my producer told me

1 Epstein wants us to stop taking
| talk to you’

“The cameraman kept rolli

q Out, got into a car with tinted w:

li

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010517
