assistance and job training, and to the fact that the
US has a high rate of incarceration that especially
affects lower-skilled men.’? According to the
report, several policy measures can boost prime-
age male labor force participation, including

* Increased investment in infrastructure

* Systemic reforms in the criminal justice system
and in immigration policies

¢ Tax reforms

¢ Investment in education and training

This demographic aspect of secular stagnation is
undeniable. In fact, an October 2016 paper by a
team at the Federal Reserve Board, “Understanding
the New Normal: The Role of Demographics,””°
shows that the slow pace of economic growth since
1980 and the more pronounced decline in the last
decade could be predicted by a model looking

at “fertility, labor supply, life expectancy, family
composition, and international migration.”

Thus, a glass half-full or half-empty perspective
does not change the facts on the ground. There is
little cause for near-term optimism with respect
to the slower growth rate of the labor force. The
general consensus is that the US labor force will
grow at an average of 0.6% per year in the next
several decades, compared with 1.6% from 1950
to 2000.7!

In the shorter term, infrastructure investment
and other policies highlighted above may boost
the growth rate in the labor force, but it is hard to
imagine growth rates reaching levels that would
support President-elect Trump’s GDP growth
targets of 3-4% ona sustainable basis.??

Secular Stagnation: Declining

Productivity Growth

Of all the theories put forth to explain the slow
pace of this recovery, the one that has garnered the
most attention is declining productivity growth.

Of all the theories put forth to explain

the slow pace of this recovery, the
one that has garnered the most
attention is declining productivity
growth.

It is also the most important issue in terms of its
impact on future trend growth in the US, which in
turn has the greatest impact on the long-term rate
of earnings growth and equity market returns.

As reviewed in last year’s Outlook, the techno-
optimists and the techno-pessimists are on opposite
sides of the debate on declining productivity
growth. Both camps have garnered new members;
even Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen and
Vice Chair Stanley Fischer have joined the fray.”
Most recently, in September 2016, the Brookings
Institution hosted a conference with leading
experts from both camps to debate the issue.

We should note that debates on productivity
are nothing new. They have surfaced during past
periods of slow growth, as was the case in the early
1990s. Even some of the players are the same:
Robert Gordon was a techno-pessimist in the early
1990s and remains so in the 2010s.4

Part of the productivity debate is philosophical.
For example, one question pertains to the increased
use of free digital services such as Facebook,
Google Maps, Waze and Khan Academy. These
services yield “consumer surplus,” defined as the
benefits consumers derive from various activities
over and above the price they pay. Should they be
included in GDP if they are deemed “non-market”
services—those that are provided free of charge
or at a fee that is well below 50% of production
costs? While social media such as Facebook may
(or may not, depending on your perspective)
provide a service greater than the advertisement
revenues associated with the use of that service,
some will argue that if such services do not have an
associated market price, they are not part of GDP
and therefore should not impact the calculation of
productivity levels. As the volume and the impact
of these non-market services increase, we believe
that the methodology for measuring GDP will
evolve to better reflect the value of these services.

Such improvements in measuring GDP are not
uncommon. The Bureau of Economic
Analysis (BEA) conducts comprehensive
revisions of the national income and
product accounts every five years, with
the goal of reflecting methodological
and statistical improvements. Most
recently, in 2013, the BEA expanded
its definition of fixed investment to
include expenditures on research and
development and expenditures on artistic
originals (e.g., books, music, television

12 | Goldman Sachs | JANUARY 2017

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014545
