organizations are not run, for better or worse, by MBAs, but by young people
distinguished only by their earnestness and public sector idealism and ambition. (It is an
anomaly of Republican politics that young people motivated to work in the public sector
find themselves working to limit the public sector.) Careers advance by how well you
learn on the job and how well you get along with the rest of the swamp and play its game.

In 2008, Walsh became the McCain campaign’s midwest regional finance director—
having majored in marketing and finance at GW, she was trusted to hold the checkbook.
Then on to deputy finance director of the National Republican Senatorial Committee,
deputy finance director and then finance director of the Republican National Committee,
and finally, pre-White House, chief of staff of the RNC and its chairman, Reince Priebus.

In retrospect, the key moment in saving the Trump campaign might be less the Mercer-
led takeover and imposition of Bannon and Conway in mid-August than the acceptance
that the bare-bones and still largely one-man organization would need to depend on the
largesse of the RNC. The RNC had the ground game and the data infrastructure; other
campaigns might not normally trust the national committee, with its many snakes in the
grass, but the Trump campaign had chosen not to build this sort of organization or make
this investment. In late August, Bannon and Conway, with Kushner’s consent, made a deal
with the deep-swamp RNC despite Trump’s continued insistence that they’d gotten this far
without the RNC, so why come crawling now?

Almost right away Walsh became a key player in the campaign, a dedicated, make-the-
trains-run-on-time power centralizer—a figure without which few organizations can run.
Commuting between RNC headquarters in Washington and Trump Tower, she was the
quartermaster who made national political resources available to the campaign.

If Trump himself was often a disruption in the final months of the race and during the
transition, the campaign around him, in part because its only option was to smoothly
integrate with the RNC, was a vastly more responsive and unified organization than, say,
the Hillary Clinton campaign with its significantly greater resources. Facing catastrophe
and seeming certain humiliation, the Trump campaign pulled together—with Priebus,
Bannon, and Kushner all starring in buddy-movie roles.

The camaraderie barely survived a few days in the West Wing.

OOK Ok

To Katie Walsh, it became almost immediately clear that the common purpose of the
campaign and the urgency of the transition were lost as soon as the Trump team stepped
into the White House. They had gone from managing Donald Trump to the expectation of
being managed by him—or at least through him and almost solely for his purposes. Yet
the president, while proposing the most radical departure from governing and policy
norms in several generations, had few specific ideas about how to turn his themes and
vitriol into policy, nor a team that could reasonably unite behind him.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019969
