noticing the HIV pandemic, too many people are still refusing to talk about sex openly, or
give healthcare to sexual minorities directly affected by HIV. To say nothing of people
who are attacked or killed for their sexual minority status, like trans people who are
murdered in the street, or lesbians who are raped in order to fix their sexuality. Sexual
stigma kills.

So when someone says something icky about sex and gender, or stereotypes a certain sex
or gender identity, it's so great to challenge them -- or at least to question them. (Really?
What makes you think all gay people are abuse survivors?) And some of the most
powerful sex activism out there involves starting discussion groups, creating venues for
discussion, hosting sexuality speakers or sex-related art, etc.

C) Be out or open, without being invasive. This can be tricky, because I don't want
to encourage people to aggressively talk about sex at totally inappropriate times -- and
again, I'm against re-centering. On the other hand, the most powerful tool for
destigmatizing sexuality appears to be coming out of the closet -- whether a person is
queer, BDSM, or whatever. Openly acknowledging, owning, and discussing your sexual
preferences can help others respect those preferences -- and can help others who share
those preferences respect themselves. (Can you tell that I cried when I saw the movie
Milk?)

This post can be found on the Internet at:

S&M:
[theory] S&M Superpowers

I wrote this post in 2011, but I encountered the superpower framework for fetishes in
2008, before I started blogging. I was telling one of my first S&M partners about how
broken and anxious I felt, and he said: Why talk about it that way? You haven't lost
anything. You've gained a superpower!

ok oe
S&M Superpowers

I've gotten so bored of the biases and stereotypes against S&M. It's like, Hey, another
person who implies that those of us who do consensual S&M were all abused as
children? Sweet! That person is wrong, and I consider those views highly stigmatizing
and sometimes damaging. So, can we go for a swim now?

(For the record, the biggest and best-designed study ever done on this topic surveyed

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018487
