NAUTIL.US | TEXT SETS

Going Big: Nuclear Rockets

Sails may be able to whisk tiny probes to the stars,
but they can’t handle a human mission; you’d need
a microwave beam consuming thousands of times
more power than the entire world currently generates.
The best-developed scheme for human space travel 1s
nuclear pulse propulsion, which the government-fund-
ed Project Orion worked on during the 1950s and ’60s.

When you first hear about it, the scheme sounds
unhinged. Load your starship with 300,000 nucle-
ar bombs, detonate
one every three sec-
onds, and ride the blast
waves. Though extreme,
it works on the same
basic principle as any
other rocket—namely,
recoil. Instead of shoot-
ing atoms out the back
of the rocket, the nucle-
ar-pulse system shoots
blobs of plasma, such as
fireballs of tungsten.

You pack a plug of
tungsten along with a
nuclear weapon into a
metal capsule, fire the
capsule out the back of
the ship, and set it off
a short distance away.
In the vacuum of space,
the explosion does less
damage than you might
expect. Vaporized tung-
sten hurtles toward the ship, rebounds off a thick
metal plate at the ship’s rear, and shoots into space,
while the ship recoils, thereby moving forward. Giant
shock absorbers lessen the jolt on the crew quarters.
Passengers playing 3-D chess, or doing whatever else
interstellar passengers do, would feel rhythmic thuds
like kids yumping rope in the apartment upstairs.

The ship might reach a tenth the speed of light.
If for some reason—solar explosion, alien invasion
we really had to get off the planet fast and we didn’t

care about nuking the launch pad, this would be the
way to go. We already have everything we need for

it. “Today the closest technology we have would be
nuclear pulse,” Matloff says. If anything, most people
would be happy to load up all our nukes on a ship and
be rid of them.

Ideally, the bomb blasts would be replaced with con-
trolled nuclear fusion reactions. That was the approach
suggested by Project Daedalus, a ’70s-era effort to
design a fully equipped robotic interstellar vessel. The
biggest problem was that for every ton of payload,
the ship would have to carry 100 tons of fuel. Such a
behemoth would be the
size of a battleship, with a
length of 200 meters and
a mass of 50,000 tons.

“Tt was just a huge,
monstrous machine,”
says Kelvin Long, an Eng-
lish aerospace engineer
and co-founder of Project
Icarus, a modem effort
to update the design.
“But what’s happened
since then, of course, 1s
microelectronics, minia-
turization of technology,
nanotechnology. All these
developments have led
to a rethinking. Do you
really need these mas-
sive structures?” He says
Project Icarus planned to
unveil the new design in
London in October 2013.

Interstellar design-
ers have come up with all sorts of ways to shrink the
fuel tank. For instance, the ship could use electric or
magnetic fields to scoop up hydrogen gas from inter-
stellar space. The hydrogen would then be fed into a
fusion reactor. The faster the ship were to go, the faster
it would scoop—a virtuous cycle that, if maintained,
would propel the ship to nearly the speed of light.
Unfortunately, the scooping system would also pro-
duce drag forces, slowing the ship, and the headwind
of particles would cook the crew with radiation. Also,
pure-hydrogen fusion 1s inefficient. A fusion-powered
ship probably couldn’t avoid hauling some fuel from

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015470
