RY roy Ww

@ able Cause Affidavit @

Palm Beach Police Department
Agency ORI# FLO 500600

bed. On one occasion Epstein ordered Rodriguez to go to the Dollar rent a car and rent a car for the same girl
he brought the roses to, so that she could-drive her self to Epstein's house without incident. Rodriguez said the
girl always needed rides to and from the house. .

Rodriguez produced a green folder which contained documents, and a note with Mr. Epstein's stationary

with direction to deliver a bucket of roses t after [__Jhigh school drama
performance. Also in that same note was direction to rent a car for and direction to extend the rental b6

contract. b7c

During the course of the investigation, subpoenas were obtained for cell phone and home phone records
from several victims and witnesses along with the cell phone records of NN. An analysis of these
records was conducted which found numerous telephone calls were made between (QB and the victims.
These records indicate the dates the calls were made are consistent with the dates and times they
victims/witnesses stated they were contacted. Specifically, The phone records showed 9B called

MEE during the exact times and dates when victim! advised the incident occurred. | also coordinated
the encounters with during the time frame the girls
stated they occurred.

Pursuant to a lawful subpoena I obtained Epstein’s private plane records for 2005 from Jet Aviation.
The plane records show arrival and departure of Epstein’s plane at Palm Beach International airport. These
records were compared to the cell phone records of Po This comparison found that all the phone calls
MM nade tol and the victims were made in the days just prior to their arrival or during the time Epstein
was in Palm Beach.

Therefore, as Jeffrey Epstein, who at the time of these incidents was fifty one years of age, did have
vaginal intercourse either with his penis or digitally vie who were minors at the time this
occurred, there is sufficient probable cause to charge Jeffrey Epstein with four counts of Unlawful Sexual Activity

with a Minor, in violation of Florida State Statute 794.05(1), a second degree felony. As Epstein, who at the time —

of the incident was fifty two years of age, did use a vibrator on the external vaginal area of a fourteen year
old minor, there is sufficient probable cause to charge him with Lewd and Lascivious Molestation, in violation of
Florida State Statute 800.04 (5), a second degree felony.

_The foregoing instrument was sworn to or affirmed State of Florida
before me this 1 day of May, 2006 by County of Palm Beach
Det Joe Recarey, who is personally known to me.

Signature/Arresting Officer

Signature of Police Officer (F.S.S. 117.10) Date: 05/01/2006

Page of 22

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018915
