both the self-perspective and the other-
perspective were associated with
activation in the neural network involved
in pain processing. These results reveal
the similarities in neural networks
representing first- and third-person
information. In addition, however, the
self-perspective yielded higher pain
ratings and involved more extensive
activation of some circuits in the pain
matrix than did the other-perspective,
thus highlighting important differences
between self- and other-perspectives.

Neuroanatomical regions and
circuits form the foundation for the
experience of pain in others, but they are
not sufficient to explain variability in
interpersonal sensitivity. Although
empathetic brain circuits are activated by
the mere perception of pain in others,
activity in these circuits can be
modulated by social, motivational, and
cognitive factors. For example,
observing pain in likable others (1.e.,
those who played a game fairly) resulted
in an enhancement of empathic brain
responses, whereas pain in dislikable
others who played unfairly did not.
Another functional MRI study (10)
found that participants showed
significantly greater responses in neural
regions that are involved in pain
perception when observing the pain of
people who were not responsible for
their stigmatized condition (i.e.,
individuals who contracted AIDS as the
result of a blood transfusion) than either
controls (healthy individuals) or people
who were held responsible for their
condition (i.e., those who contracted
AIDS through illegal drug use). In
addition, participants expressed more
empathy and personal distress in
response to the pain of people who were
not responsible for their stigmatized
condition as compared to controls. The

Page |90

level of empathic response, therefore,
seems to be influenced by motivational
factors as well as the interpersonal
relationship between the target and the
observer.

Altogether, these findings
demonstrate that the similarities between
affective representations of the self and
the other stem from shared neural
circuits that can be emulated either
automatically or intentionally by the act
of perspective-taking. Importantly, these
findings also point to some distinctions
between these two representations,
distinctions that contribute to our
capacity to detach ourselves from others
sufficiently to make considered
responses to their pain.

Conclusion

Empathy, the natural capacity to
share, appreciate, and respond to the
affective states of others, plays a crucial
role in much of human social interaction
from birth to the end of life. As would be
expected if empathy functions to
enhance social cohesion, social non-
human primate species also exhibit
rudimentary versions of empathy. What
humans have in abundance are higher-
level cognitive and social abilities
(language, theory of mind, executive
functions) that can be deployed to
modulate empathic responses, and that
are amenable to modulation by lower-
level processes such as emotional
contagion and mimicry. These levels of
processing enable empathy to have an
impact on a wide variety of human
behaviors. From motivating prosocial
behavior to providing the affective and
motivational bases for moral
development, empathy is an invisible
force to reckon with when considering
how humans behave toward each other.

References

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021336
