TED2017: The future you

4/20/17, 12:07 PM

Wednesday, April 26, 8:30AM - 10:15AM PDT

Session 5: Mind,

Hosted by Helen Walters.

https://ted2017.ted.com/program

Meaning

Michael Patrick Lynch
Philosopher

Michael Patrick Lynch examines truth, democracy, public discourse and the ethics of technology in the age of big data.

Michael Patrick Lynch is a writer and professor of philosophy at the University of Connecticut, where he directs the Humanities Institute.
His work concerns truth, democracy, public discourse and the ethics of technology. Lynch is the author or editor of seven books, including
The Internet of Us: Knowing More and Understanding Less in the Age of Big Data, In Praise of Reason: Why Rationality Matters for
Democracy, Truth as One and Many and the New York Times Sunday Book Review Editor’s pick, True to Life.

The recipient of the Medal for Research Excellence from the University of Connecticut’s College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, he is The
Principal Investigator for Humility & Conviction in Public Life, a $7 million project aimed at understanding and encouraging meaningful
public discourse funded by the John Templeton Foundation and the University of Connecticut. He's a frequent contributor to the New York
Times “The Stone” blog.

michael-lynch philosophy.uconn.edu

Dan Ariely

Behavioral economist

The dismal science of economics is not as firmly grounded in actual behavior as was once supposed. In Predictably Irrational,” Dan Ariely
told us why.

Dan Ariely is a professor of psychology and behavioral economics at Duke University and a founding member of the Center for Advanced

Hindsight. He is the author of the bestsellers Predictably Irrational, The Upside of Irrationality, and The Honest Truth About Dishonesty --
as well as the TED Book Payoff: The Hidden Logic that Shapes Our Motivations.

Through his research and his (often amusing and unorthodox) experiments, he questions the forces that influence human behavior and the
irrational ways in which we often all behave.

predictablyirrational.com @danariely

Mariano Sigman
Neuroscientist

In his provocative, mind-bending book The Secret Life of the Mind,” neurologist Mariano Sigman reveals his life’s work exploring the
inner workings of the human brain.

Mariano Sigman, a physicist by training, is a leading figure in the cognitive neuroscience of learning and decision making. He is the
founder of the Integrative Neuroscience Laboratory at the University of Buenos Aires. Sigman was awarded a Human Frontiers Career
Development Award, the National Prize of Physics, the Young Investigator Prize of College de France,” the IBM Scalable Data Analytics
Award and is a scholar of the James $. McDonnell Foundation. In 2016 he was made a Laureate of the Pontifical Academy of Sciences.

In The Secret Life of the Mind, Sigman’s ambition is to explain the mind so that we can understand ourselves and others more deeply. He
shows how we form ideas during our first days of life, how we give shape to our fundamental decisions, how we dream and imagine, why
we feel certain emotions, how the brain transforms and how who we are changes with it. Spanning biology, physics, mathematics,
psychology, anthropology, linguistics, philosophy and medicine, as well as gastronomy, magic, music, chess, literature and art, The Secret
Life of the Mind revolutionizes how neuroscience serves us in our lives, revealing how the infinity of neurons inside our brains
manufacture how we perceive, reason, feel, dream and communicate.

neuro.org.ar @mariuchu

Anika Paulson
Student, musician

Anika Paulson’s love for music permeates her understanding of herself, her surroundings and the mysteries that make up the smallest and
biggest parts of life.

Whether it’s the long trek between high school classes or the exploration of self-identity in college, Anika Paulson’s escape is always
music. A self-proclaimed nervous Minnesotan, music is the measure of her life’s tempo. There’s no doubt that whatever Paulson decides to
do, she will use the power and metaphor of music to guide her future. After all, according to Paulson, whether it’s friendships or string
theory, everything is music.

Recently, Paulson completed a TED-Ed Club and was one of 20 students selected to speak at TED-Ed Weekend 2016 at TED's
headquarters in New York City.

@_annikap
Lisa Genova

Neuroscientist, novelist

Through her fiction, Lisa Genova beckons us into the lives of people with neurological disease, making their worlds real and relatable.

Page 10 of 21

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014960
