172

undoubtedly have preferred Martin and Mitchell to remain in place as moles, since their information was
dated as of the moment they left NSA.”

The next NSA defector was Victor Norris Hamilton. He was a translator and analyst at the
NSA. He arrived in Moscow in 1962 and, like Mitchell and Martin, he claimed the status of a
whistle-blower. This time KGB provided a newspaper platform. Writing in the Russian
newspaper /zvestia, Hamilton revealed the extent of US spying on its allies in the Middle East.

None of these three 1960s defectors revealed what, if any, NSA secret documents that they had
compromised. Nor did any of them ever return to the United States. Martin changed his name to
Vladimir Sokolodsky, married a Russian woman, and died in Mexico City on January 17, 1987.
Mitchell vanished from sight and was reported to have died in St. Petersburg on November 12,
2001. Hamilton, after telling Russian authorities stories about hearing voices in his head because
of a NSA device implanted in his brain, was consigned to Special Psychiatric Hospital No. 5
outside of Moscow.

There were also KGB spies in the NSA who were caught or died before they could defect.
One of them was Sgt. Jack Dunlap. He was found dead of carbon monoxide poisoning in his
garage on July 23, 1963. Although there was no note, his death was ruled an apparent suicide.
NSA classified documents later was discovered in his house. After that, NSA investigators
unraveled his decade-long career as a KGB mole. Dunlap had been recruited by the KGB in
Turkey in 1952. The standard KGB tool kit for recruitment was called MICE. It stood for
Money, Ideology, Compromise and Exploitation. The KGB used the first element, money, to
compromise Dunlap. After he was compromised, it exploited him by getting him to steal NSA
secrets. He had access to such secrets because he became the personal driver first to Major
General Garrison Coverdale, the chief of staff of the NSA. After Coverdale retired, he next
became the driver for his successor, General Thomas Wattlington. These positions afforded him
a secrecy clearance and, even more important, a no inspection status for the commanding
General’s cars that he drove. This perk allowed him to leave the base with secret documents, have
them photocopied by his KGB case officer, and then return them to the files at the NSA base
before anyone else knew they were missing. He also used, likely at the suggestion of the KGB
case officers, his “no inspection” perk to offer other NSA employees a way of earning money. He
would smuggle off the base any items of government property off the base that they took. Once
he had compromised them through thefts, he was in a position ask them for intelligence favors.
This NSA ring could not be fully investigated because of his untimely death. Other than the
packets of undelivered NSA documents found in his home, the investigation was never able to
assess the total extent of the KGB penetration of NSA secrets. (Angleton suspected Dunlap was
murdered the KGB, in what he termed a surreptitiously assisted death, to prevent Dunlap from
talking to investigators.)

The Russian intelligence services continued recruiting mercenary spies in the NSA for the
duration of the Cold War. The KGB successes included Robert Lipka, a clerk at the NSA in the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020324
