Edwards adv. Epstein
Telephone interview with Virginia Roberts
Page 8 of 23

you know, I was actually interested in making my life better by studying so what they
were offering me was a chance to become a legitimate masseuse but it was getting
trained. They would have people show me how to work the body and be called a
massage therapist and get me books on it, and you know, keep me interested, and every
time, you know, I was with Jeffrey, literally was about massages, I don’t mean just going
in and have sex with him. I mean massage, because it would always start out with
massage and then it would lead into sometimes other things.

JS: Alright, once this evolved. into full time employment, what did full time employment
mean?

V: That was entirely having to travel with Jeffrey in every city. When he was in Palm
Beach, I stayed at my apartment, and he would call me to his house once or twice a day
sometimes, and that’s, you know, do things with him. Sometimes we’d go out shopping,
sometimes we’d go out and watch a movie. You know, simple things like that, go to an
expo or a fair, whatever it was. But when we were in other cities, I was at my
apartment_, I lived with him full time. What I mean by full time is even in the middle of
the night, I could get a ring on my phone next to me and tell me to come in his room, you
know, so it was literally full time.

JS: | When you say that when you were in Palm Beach you were living in your apartment,
were you living on your own or were you living with members of your family at that
time?

V: No, after I quit Mar-a-Lago, Jeffrey offered to get me an apartment in Palm Beach
somewhere, Royal Palm Beach, and it was a nice apartment. He furnished it for me, it
was absolutely beautiful, but yeah, that’s the only time I would spend time away from

him really.

JS: This apartment was on Royal Palm Beach Boulevard or out in the Village of Royal Palm
Beach?

V: I so honestly don’t remember. I’ve been trying to rack my brain because the FBI was

asking the same thing and were trying to find it, but yeah, [’m Not sur_. I didn’t get to
spend as much time in it, I was only there about an entire week out of every month
probably, but the majority of the time I was with Jeffrey anyways. It was somewhere in
Royal Palm Beach. I don’t know about Royal Palm Beach drive. I don’t even remember
the Royal Palm Beach drive anymore so I’m not too sure.

JS: Ok, let me see if I can draw the distinction for you and maybe that will help you to help
us? Royal Palm Beach is a village that is...

Vi No, no, no, I got Royal Palm Beach, I just didn’t know the Royal Palm Beach Drive, like
what street it’s off of. Were you talking about a street?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012114
