Knowledge-Based Education vs. Process-Based Education &3

those people will do anything to live in the United States. So they cram
math down their own throats, knowing that it is a ticket to America.
Very few of these applicants come from Germany, Sweden, France, or
Italy. Is this because they teach math badly there or is it because those
people aren’t desperate to move to the United States?

U.S. students are not desperate to move to the United States, so
when you suggest to them that they numb themselves with formulas
and equations, they refuse to do so. The right answer would be to
make math and science actually interesting, but with those awful tests
as the ultimate arbiter of success, this is very difficult to do. Math and
science are not important subjects. There, I said it. Start the lynching.
One can live a happy life without ever having taken a physics course
or knowing what a logarithm is.

But being able to reason on the basis of evidence actually is im-
portant. You cannot live well without this skill (or any of the other
cognitive processes I have been writing about). Diagnosis is science
as it actually is practiced by scientists. Science is not a bunch of
stuff to be memorized. It is the fact-based tests that cause this prob-
lem. We don’t need more math and science. We need more people
who can think.

TESTING FOCUSES TEACHERS ON WINNING NOT TEACHING

Many teachers are extremely frustrated by the system they have found
themselves a part of. They cannot afford to spend time teaching a
student or getting a concept across if the issues being taught are not
on the tests. They are judged on the basis of test scores. So any ratio-
nal teacher gives up teaching and becomes a kind of test preparation
coach. Testing has become a kind of contest between schools, much
like football. I like football. But the football mentality that envelops
our concept of schooling is a disaster.

Take a look at this excerpt of an article taken from my local
paper. What our educators are worrying about is winning the game.
Unfortunately, the game has nothing to do with educating students
and everything to do with test scores, which are probably less valuable
than football scores in predicting anything about the future of
children’s lives.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023829
