James PaTTERSON

his team reviewed refuted the accusations of sexual misconduct
against Dershowitz. .

For Alan Dershowitz, the long nightmare he'd had to endure as a
result of his friendship with Jeffrey Epstein finally seemed to be over.

Ghislaine Maxwell

Trying to put her troubles with Epstein behind her, Ghislaine
Maxwell took up a new calling.

“She’s doing something to save the oceans now,” a socialite says
over the din of cocktail-party chatter at a private Palm Beach Club,

Maxwell's nonprofit, the TerraMar Project, describes itself as
“a platform for citizenship and transformation of the high seas.”
Its focus is on cleaning up the eight million metric tons of plastic
debris—garbage—that are dumped into the world’s oceans
each year. (Sources say that an earlier enterprise, the Seed Media
Group, was funded by Jeffrey Epstein in 2005 to the tune of two
million dollars.)

“Is anybody here staying awake at night because they're
frightened about the ocean?” she asks in 2014 at a TEDx talk in
Charlottesville, Virginia. “Are you scared about what could hap-
pen? Are you trying to think about what could you do that would
help the ocean and all its myriad of troubles?”

But although her efforts on behalf of the environment are sin-

cere and articulate, Ghislaine still appears in the society pages.

In 2010, she attends Chelsea Clinton’s wedding in Rhine-

beck, New York.

In 2014, New York journalist Richard Johnson reports that
she’s newly back from running in an Iditarod dogsled race i>

274

Alaska, “It’s hard to top ¢
department,” he writes.
Upon her return, the ;
International hosts Maxy
chef for Madame Chiang ]
Sources say that Maxy
ship with the Clintons. Sh:
Maxwell has repeatedly d
Roberts—and continues
Maxwell says she’s had nox
involving Virginia Roberts
frey Epstein. She claims th:
as a “sex slave” has change
each telling, Virginia adds s
figures. Nevertheless, legal
In 2015, Virginia Rober
woman she says recruited he
Way. In January of 2016, Rc
that a defamation suit filed ag
predator, was directly relevan
Maxwell filed an answer in c
and accusing Roberts of fabri

As of this writing, the si

Prince Andrew

In January of 2016, Sunningh

4 that Sarah Ferguson and I
q English county of Berkshire.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022171
