Rates: short inflation/long duration

Positioning surveys generally indicate that the rates market is neutral or short duration
amid rising inflation expectations. According to our rates & FX sentiment survey, clients
are relatively short in relation to their average positioning across major fixed income
markets including the EU, UK, and to a lesser extent the US (Chart 42). Such position
indications suggest that contrarian investors should be long duration in Europe, the UK,
and the US. These positions have been factored into some of our pre-existing
fundamental views, which include receiving euro vs US rates and expecting UK
supply/demand dynamics to be supportive of longer-dated Gilts going into year end. We
are reluctant to recommend outright long duration positions in US rates at present
given that the sharp election-induced selloff could extend over the coming weeks.

Consensus expects rising inflation

Instead, we focus on contrarian views regarding the outlook for inflation, which
underpinned some of short rates positioning and is expected to increase with US fiscal
policy expansion and base effects. According to our recent Global Fund Manager Survey
taken prior to the election, global inflation expectations are on the rise, with 70% of
survey respondents expecting higher global CPI readings in the near term. Headline CPI
has been moving higher in the US, and Chinese PPI recently turned positive for the first
time since 2012. Similarly, global market-based measures of inflation expectations have
been rising, with 5y5y forward inflation swaps in the US, UK, and Europe all rising over
recent months and US inflation protected funds receiving nearly $2 billion in inflows
since the start of October.

Disinflation may strike back

Risks to the near-term outlook for inflation could rise if: (1) expectations for US fiscal
stimulus disappoint as House deficit hawks insist on revenue-neutral tax cuts or
spending measures; (2) Beijing pushes the RMB lower before President-elect Trump
takes office leading to risk-off and imported disinflation; (3) commodity prices decline if
an OPEC deal cannot be reached, the USD meaningfully appreciates, or if EM growth
falters; or (4) EU slowdown fears rise should the ECB taper due to technical constraints.

We recommend buying 3-year 0% inflation floors in the US, which currently
demand only 9 basis of premium. These levels are low in relation to recent history and
could increase if Beijing were to more rapidly weaken the RMB or if commodities falter
(Chart 43). Investors seeking to offset the premium could consider selling longer-dated
more deeply negative floors under the assumption that any near-term disinflation scare
would be short-lived and likely be offset by more activist monetary policies thereafter.
The risk to the trade is a spike in commodity prices or a continued rise in core inflation.

Chart 42: Z-score of duration positioning: short except in Japan/Canada

Chart 43: Cost of 3Y¥ 0% deflation floor has spiked with weak RMB (bps)

0.5
0.0
-0.5
-1.0
-1.5
-2.0

-2.5
EU Core UK EUPeriph US JP CA

Note: negative z-score values indicate short positioning, positive z-score values indicate long
positions; z-score taken from survey net exposure index with responses dating back to 1992 for US,
CA, JP, UK & EU, EU periphery data available back to 2013. Source: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research

60
50
40
30
20
10

0
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016

Source: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, Bloomberg

Bankof America
Merrill Lynch

Global Rates, FX & EM 2017 Year Ahead | 16 November 2016 23

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014753
