Other Cinematographer credits include the documentaries Tre Donne, The Quest for the Unicorn,
A Murder of Crows, and Deux de la Vague, which premiered at Cannes in 2009.

As both producer and director of photography his credits include the feature documentary Let It
Come Down: The Life of Paul Bowles, which received a Genie nomination in 1998, a Banff
Rockie nomination in 1999 and won the International Emmy Award for Best Arts Documentary
in 1999. Also The Holier It Gets, a documentary filmed in Canada and India, which won Best
Cultural and Best Independent Canadian Documentary at Hot Docs, 2000, and garnered Geminis
for best writing, editing, and direction in a documentary series, as well as a nomination for The
Donald Brittain award for best documentary and a nomination for a Chalmers Award in 2001.

In 2002 he produced and shot the documentary: The True Meaning of Pictures about the work
and world of Kentucky photographer Shelby Lee Adams, which premiered at TIFF and then
Played at the Sundance Film Festival. It was nominated for two Gemini Awards and won in the
Best Arts Documentary category. This was followed in 2003 by Hockey Nomad based on Dave
Bidini's best-selling book Tropic of Hockey about hockey in unlikely places around the globe,
which was nominated for a Banff Rockie Award, as well as three Geminis, and won the Best
Sports Documentary Gemini. He also co-directed, produced and photographed for TVOntario a
series of 40 short profiles on artists who have received Ontario Arts Council grants over the past
40 years.

He produced the documentary Manufactured Landscapes, which won the Chum City Award for
best Canadian feature at TIFF 2006, the Genie Award for best Documentary, and was distributed
in 15 countries. He also directed and partially shot the high definition feature documentary Four
Wings and a Prayer, about the migration of the Monarch butterfly, which won the Grand Prix
Pariscience, the Banff Rockie Award for best Wildlife and Natural History Program, the Jules
Verne Nature Award, and was nominated for Geminis for best Science Documentary, Best
Cinematography and Best Direction, as well as an Emmy for Outstanding Nature Programming
(PBS version).

Most recently he was producer and director of photography on Act of God - a feature
documentary about the metaphysics of being struck by lightning, which was selected as the
opening night film for Hot Docs International Film Festival as well as an official selection in
competition at the Karlovy-Vary International Film Festival in 2009. In 2010 he is shooting the
documentary adaptation of Payback, Margaret Atwood's Massey Lecture on debt.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025212
