Now, Eric Cantor, it was a landslide. He lost 57-43, and not one — outside of Breitbart, we
covered this for six months, day in and day out — not one news site — not Fox News, not
Politico, no sites picked this up. And the reason that this guy won is quite simple: Middle-
class people and working-class people are tired of people like Eric Cantor who say they’re

conservative selling out their interests every day to crony capitalists.

“That center-right revolt is really a global
revolt. I think you’re going to see it in Latin
America, I think you’re going to see it in Asia,
I think you’ve already seen it in India.”

And you're seeing that whether that was UKIP and Nigel Farage in the United Kingdom,
whether it’s these groups in the Low Countries in Europe, whether it’s in France, there’s a
new tea party in Germany. The theme is all the same. And the theme is middle-class and
working-class people — they’re saying, “Hey, I’m working harder than I’ve ever worked.
I’m getting less benefits than I’m ever getting through this, I’m incurring less wealth
myself, and I’m seeing a system of fat cats who say they’re conservative and say they back
capitalist principles, but all they’re doing is binding with corporatists.” Right?
Corporatists, to garner all the benefits for themselves.

And that center-right revolt is really a global revolt. I think you’re going to see it in Latin
America, I think you’re going to see it in Asia, I think you’ve already seen it in India.
Modi’s great victory was very much based on these Reaganesque principles, so I think this
is a global revolt, and we are very fortunate and proud to be the news site that is reporting
that throughout the world.

Harnwell: I think it’s important to understand the distinction that you’re drawing here
between what can be understood as authentic, free-market capitalism as a means of
promoting wealth that [wnintelligible] involves everybody with a form of crony capitalism
which simply benefits a certain class. And we’ve watched over the course of our

conference, we’ve watched two video segments produced by the Acton Institute about how

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029030
