Known Unknowns 193

caused you to trip? You could go on
forever, generating rules to cover every
eventuality.

Clearly, in the fuzzy world of
human endeavor, truth and rules often
part company. Yet, we all assume math-
ematics is free of such uncertainty. Let
me tell you this is not so. The brilliant
mathematician Kurt Gédel proved see eee
this when he was just 22, and his proof a es
says something fundamental about the 4 rs /, :
nature of knowledge. a has

The story of his discovery involves
some of the greatest mathematical
thinkers in history. My introduction to it came about from a chance
accident. I became ill in my first year at University (mononucleosis,
otherwise know as glandular fever, if youre curious) and was eventu-
ally sent home to recover. Lying in bed for two months is boring. So
to pass the time my mother suggested I read Bertrand Russell's, The
History of Western Philosophy. | think she figured I had plenty of time, so
picked a thick book. This nearly 800-page tome charts the entire history
of philosophy from the time of the ancient Greeks. I presumed Russell
was a philosophy professor, but he was originally a mathematician. He
was a mathematician. And because he lived and worked productively for
almost all of his 97 years, spanning much of the 19 and 20 centuries,
he crops up repeatedly as a central figure in many areas of intellectual life.
Russell the politician, Russell the philosopher, Russell the mathematician
and Russell the peace campaigner are all the same man — not, as I had
incorrectly first guessed, a prolific family. In his early career, Bertrand
Russell was a Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge, working on a broad
range of mathematical problems. Meanwhile, in Germany, his contem-
porary David Hilbert, also a polymath, held the chair of mathematics at
Gottingen University. Both men shared a common objective: to tidy up
the loose ends in mathematics and set down the rules once and for all.
This movement was called Formalism.

Kurt Gédel

Formalism

David Hilbert and Bertrand Russell believed you should be able to set
out all the rules of mathematics even though it might be a complicated
affair. Without contradiction or inconsistency you should be able to

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015883
