106

be exploited for espionage or cyberattacks.'’ Both companies were key providers of
technology at the African Union headquarters building, where investigators have
found widespread electronic infiltration traceable to China, whose state-owned firms
constructed the building.’* Both Huawei and ZTE have also been accused of bribery
abroad to win contracts.’”

For years, the federal government has actively discouraged American companies, local
governments, and allied countries from partnering with Huawei. Nonetheless, the
company’s global presence has continued to grow, and it is playing an important role in
setting standards for 5G wireless technology.'* In April 2018, the United States announced
sanctions against ZTE for violating restrictions on sales to Iran and North Korea, barring
American companies from transacting with the company. This would have effectively put
ZTE out of business because of its dependence on American inputs, but shortly thereafter,
and against the objections of many in Congress, the Trump administration agreed to a
settlement that would allow the firm to stay in business.

There are other instances of companies being used to advance objectives contrary to the
US interest. For example, front companies have been used to aid in the illegal export of
sensitive technologies to China. In another instance, Newsweek in 2016 reported that
the United States was investigating the acquisition by the Chinese company Fosun of

a US insurer that has sold legal liability insurance to senior American intelligence
officials.”

Growing Access to the US Political System

Although federal campaign contributions by foreign nationals or companies are illegal in
US federal elections, there are alternative avenues for foreign corporate interests to influence
the US political system, as the Australians have learned. These include lobbying, indirect
campaign contributions via US subsidiaries, and the hiring of former senior government
officials. All these approaches, while currently legal, are discussed below to demonstrate the
full spectrum of activities Chinese entities are involved with and to highlight where they
may raise questions of impropriety.

Lobbying The most direct and legal route to the American political system is lobbying.
For example, within one day of President Trump tweeting his openness to a settlement
with ZTE Corporation that would keep it from going out of business, the company signed
a contract with lobbying firm, Mercury Public Affairs. The lead on the ZTE account was
Bryan Lanza, a former Trump campaign official.”° Also in 2018, the former senior advisor
to Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross was hired as chief of International Corporate
Affairs for another Chinese firm, HNA. Both instances underscore the need for updated
revolving-door policies, particularly with respect to foreign corporations that are subject to
significant state control.?!

Corporations

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020565
