2 The Virgin Islands Daily News

gh bA Se

“VIRGIN ISLANDS

Friday, November 9, 2012 -

Prosecutor’s home destroyed in suspected arson on St. Croix

By LOU MATTE!
Daily News Staff

ST. THOMAS — VI. Police and
V.I. Fire Service officials on St.
Croix are investigating what they
say is suspected arson at the home
of a criminal prosecutor for the V.I.
Attomey General’s Office.

The Estate St. George home of
Assistant Attorney General Kip
Roberson was fully engulfed in
flames when five Fire Service trucks
responded to a 911 call about 11
a.m. Thursday, according to St.

Croix Fire Chief Angel Torres Sr.
and Attorney General Vincent
Frazer.

Torres estimated that the home
had been buming for about 15 min-
utes before the call came in. He said
firefighters had to force their way
through a motorized gate to gain
access to the buming house. No one
was inside, and no one was hurt in
the blaze, but the home was com-
pletely destroyed, Torres said.

“Tt’s a total loss,” Torres said.

Torres said firefighters also found
that surveillance cameras at the

home had been tampered with.,

“Someone cut the wires,” he said.
“The wires was pulled out and the
screens were pulled out and thrown
in the bushes.”

Torres said firefighters found evi-
dence of tampering on the doors to
the home, which appeared that
someone had tried to pry the doors
open. The Fire Service did not leave
the scene until 3:20 p.m., Torres
said.

Torres said Thursday evening that
the Fire Service had not contacted
any witnesses at that point and that

Roberson’s home was located in an
isolated area. He said he believed
Roberson shared the home with
another attorney, but he did not
know the attorney’s name.

“Apparently they were a couple,
but it’s an ongoing investigation,”
Torres said. “We gotta really follow
up on some leads and stuff we’re
looking at.”

Roberson could not be reached
for comment Thursday evening.

Frazer declined to comment about
Roberson’s living situation. The
attomey general said late Thursday

that he had not yet been fully briefed

on the fire, but he had a deputy on

St. Croix looking into the question i
of whether the suspected arson could

be connected to any cases Roberson

was working.

“Tl hope not, but we will look into
that,” Frazer said.

Torres said the fire remains under
investigation by the Police
Department’s forensics unit and the
Fire Service’s arson prevention unit.
Anyone with information about the fire
can call the Fire Service at 773-8050
and ask for the arson prevention unit.

Elections boards’ slow vote count

By LOU MATTEI
Daily News Staff

ST. THOMAS — Both Boards of Elections
in the Virgin Islands have run afoul of the V.I.
Code and board policies in the wake of
Tuesday’s general election, from which paper
ballots are stil] being tallied.

The V.I. Code requires the boards to count the
votes for each candidate within a day of receiv-
ing ballot materials from the polling places:
“Each board of elections, after having received
all statements, books, lists, papers, vouchers,
ballots, baliot boxes and district register from
each polling district and polling place in its dis-
trict, shall convene not later than one day follow-
ing the receipt thereof and determine the total
number of votes cast in the election district for
each candidate.”

The law states that the boards must convene
no later than three days after receiving the afore-
mentioned materials to tally votes for the Board
of Education and Board of Elections races.

On Tuesday, a majority of the votes from all
races were cast on electronic machines, and
results from those ballots were available within
hours of the polls closing.

However, widespread distrust of the machines
led to a spike in the use of paper ballots — more
than 4,500
vote count and, in effect, hampered the boards’
abilities to comply with the law.

Today marks the third day since the boards
received all the ballots from the polling sites
Tuesday night.

The St. Thomas-St. John Board hopes to fin-
ish counting the Senate races by the end of the
day today before moving on to other races,
according to board member Lorna Thomas.

The St. Croix Board is scheduled to begin
counting its 2,781 paper ballots today.

Thomas, who helped on Thursday to oversee
Daily News Publishing 5!
by Times-Shamrock & ad
islands Daily News
9155 Estate Thomas, Charlotte Amalie, St.
Daily News, 9155 Estate Thomas, St.

her board’s tally of about 600 ballots in the
Company Inc. dwned 3
Communications
con ho
daily, except Sunday, MUNICE
Thomas, VI 00802. First class postage paid
POSTMASTER, send Form 3579, Notice of
Thomas, V! 00802.

ISSN 2159-3019

= (a)
publishes The Virgin
Christmas Day and New Year's Day, at
at Charlotte Amalie, St. Thomas. U.S.V.I
Address Change, to: Circulation Director,

Calendar ............
Classifieds ..........
COGS wie. csc2es csees
Crossword .........
Cruise Ships......
Horoscope ............4.
Lottery Results ..

Daily News Photo by FIONA STOKES
St. Croix Board of Elections member Lisa
Harris Moorhead looks on as board members
and election judges sort and count ballots
Thursday. The board issued a statement
Thursday that it had finished sorting more
than 2,700 ballots and will begin counting
them today at the Election System Office in
Sunny Isle Shopping Center.

Senate race, said the law makes little sense in the
context of the territory’s current paper ballots,
which can be counted only by hand.

“Literally it would have been impossible to
follow,” Thomas said when asked about the law.
“T don’t see how we could have done that.”

Thomas said the board should have new vot-
ing machines by the 2014 elections that can tally
paper ballots automatically.

When asked about enforcing the section of
the law cited above, V.I. Attorney General
Vincent Frazer said he “would have to look at
thatand see.”

The boards’ handling of the paper ballots also
has brought them into conflict with a Board of

violates V.I. law

Elections policy.

Joint Board of Elections Chairman Rupert
Ross Jr. said Thursday that the joint board passed
a policy earlier this year requiring the boards to
begin counting any paper ballots the night of the
election. He said the policy never was put into
writing, but it may exist m some formn in minutes
from the meeting. He also said the policy lacked
an enforcement mechanism.

Ross said the intent of the policy, which
passed by a 6-5 vote, was to ensure that process-
ing of the paper ballots began as soon as possi-
ble. The sooner the counting begins, the easier it
is to comply with another section of the law that
requires the boards to certify a final vote count
within 10 days of an election, Ross reasoned.

The certification deadline already was weigh-
ing on the mind of Thomas, who pointed out the
St. Thomas-St. John Board has yet to touch
locked ballot boxes containing absentee ballots
and walk-in votes.

Elections Supervisor John Abramson Jr. has
said the district processed 412 walk-in ballots
and mailed 331 absentee ballots.

But Thomas was optimustic that the board was
gaining momentum after a troubled start.

“Tempers were a little tight yesterday, but
everyone’s happy today,” Thomas said. “The
public was much quieter and accommodating

today, and we appreciated them teititedpgyitlkee—

judges to do their jobs.”

Candidate Lawrence Olive, who eamed 304
paper-ballot votes on Thursday to bump Lisa
Williams from ninth place in the Senate race,
said he told his supporters to use the paper bal-
lots as a more reliable — and legal — alterna-
tive to the electronic machines.

“Tf the trend continues, I don’t see no reason
why I will not be in the top seven,” Olive said.
“Tt just goes to show you that the paper ballot is
the true count.”

— Contact reporter Lou Mattei at 714-9124
or email lmattei@dailynews.vi.

_ St.Thomas, VI.00802

Election Update

Senate At-large
Craig Barshinger
Wilma Marsh-Monsanto

St. Thomas St. John District
Clifford Graham
Shawn-Michael Malone
MYON JACKSON seasescsceszsasececnsempecezan
Janette Millin Young ................:..ee
Clarence Payne
Tregenza ROACH ..............sseceeeeeeeees
Donald Cole
JUSTIN Harrigan Sia... ceccceeeeeeeneeeees
Lawrence Olive
LISA WiAMS .... cc cceccccceeeceseseeesteees :
Horace Brooks
Paul Alexander
Sean Georges
Marvin Blyden
Louis Willis
Alma Francis-Heyliger
Kent Bernier Sr. ............:cccceeseceereeee 1,800
Janelle Sarauw 1,750
Stephen Frett 1,436
Cecilia Milliner-Emanuel 1,191
JOSEPN GUMDS.........ccecceeer eee eeeeee 1,138
Kyae CallWO6d, ccs siveariearer oe vacs ves S49
Shirley Sadler
Elvin Fahie Sr. ........ cc cccceeseeeseee rene ee 804

(pale Ame

Carol Berry

Omodoso Muhammad

Cleone Marrishow

Jodi Hodge

Josephine Lindquist

Andreas Tietie. ............0.eeseseeeeeeeerenees
Ona WEDD icornttions-cxamaenawmnesneeis
Walter Brown

Charlesworth Halstead

* Unofficial; as of Thursday.

Gk Virgin Islands Advertising Opinions Circulation
DAILY@ NEWS Contact us St. Thomas-St. John —- 714-9138 714-9101
Se Publisher wae baw 4-9147 News SUBSCRIPTION RATES: One dollar daily.
A Pulitzer Prize-winning ne : < 2 e Other subscription rates available on request.
© 2012 Daily News Publishing Co. Jason Robbins St. Croix St. Thomas-St. John The publisher reserves the rightto change
714-9107 773-4425 714-9106 subscription rates during the
— 33 Nation & World....12-23 | irobbins@dailynews.vi Fax: 719-3000 Fax: 776-0740 term of a subscription with 30 Fe
5 et Pa . d tice. The noti b
inside — Opinions ............ 24-25 | Executive Editor = Classifieds St. Croix male byarainatbaevensiaee 6
34-37 Police Reports .........10 | J, Lowe Davis 714-2222 773-4425 bynotice contained inthe ww
ayaa 37 —s Sports.................. 88-44 | 714-9138 classifieds Fax: 773-1621 newspanerimelr oncthenvise
5 Sud Paci lowedavis@dailynews.vi @dailynews.vi Subscription changes may be — Printedon
coe UGOKU ...... ee inside yaews! y . Sports impiemented by changing the recycled paper
35 TV Schedule........... 32. | E-mail Mail 714-9102 duzation of the subscription.
sez V2 Wath a.eccnccres.a 12 | dailynews@vipowernet.net 9155 Estate Thomas Fax: 776-0740 ONUINE SUBSCRIPTIONS:

virginislandsdailynews.newspaperdirect.com

“HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018863
