Co-director, Cosmology Initiative
and Director, Origins initiative
Arizona State University

Sent from my iPhone

On Apr 6, 2011, at 3:15 PM, Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote:
no it was appreciated. thanks

On Wed, Apr 6, 2011 at 11:31 PM, Lawrence Krauss iT wrote:

just so you know.. you can read from bottom up.. you may be mad that I was blunt... haven't heard from
you.. hope all is well..

Begin forwarded message:

From: Rebecca Watson
Date: April 6, 2011 10:28:36 AM MST
To: Lawrence Krauss
Subject: Re: Statement in the Daily Beast?

Okay, will do.

On Wed, Apr 6, 2011 at 1:27 PM, Lawrence Krauss Po wrote:
ok.. I just sent an additional email which moderates this.. everyone was a victim, including Jeffrey here..
and there was no happy resolution.. please add.. probably everyone was a victim, with no happy
resolution or consequences of these activities, after was the victim in this case.”.

On Apr 6, 2011, at 10:18 AM, Rebecca Watson wrote:

Okay, thanks for this statement . . . I'll print it in full along with the article, probably today. I very, very
strongly disagree with your position and hope you eventually reconsider, but I do appreciate you taking the
time to respond.

-R

On Wed, Apr 6, 2011 at 1:15 PM, Lawrence Krauss EE wrote:
jeffrey apparently paid for massages with sex... I believe him when he told me he had no idea the girls
were underage, and I doubt that people normally are asked for or present a driver's license under such
circumstances... Moreover, I also believe that Jeffrey is an easy target for those who want to take
advantage of him... Moreover, I can say with great honesty that Jeffrey's time in prison led him to
seriously examine his life in very positive ways and I don't believe in blanket condemnations of
people. He served time for something that was determined was inappropriate. I honestly don't know who
was the victim in this case. I fully expect that these masseuses knew what they were doing, and were not

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030921
