NO sorry not until i hear from leon

leon. to be fair, I had sent the first note to you one year ago . stating that my work would come to an end on
oct 15. that day had meaning as everything would be closed. you asked that i continue to help brad. as of
nov though he would officially start in jan. I said ok, but .....  you told me to continue as we would work
something out I told you my fee then was 40. feb you came with ben while kathy ruemmler was here. and
said next week, debra got bad news. and I quickly prioritzed not adding stress to your situation. I wont
regurgitate the interim, though millions of dollars were saved since. millions. . it is now one year later and you
propose 10 mlllion , plus a contingent fee . [have said that i would work with you , and if contingent and a
percentage of something. I strongly believe that is not in your interest. I continue to put our friendship first
and dont want you to write a check for over 100million andthe i will have to listen to lewie for the next few
years. but if you prefer over my objection a percentage deal then it should be of all savings not just

phaidon. ( arandom concept). The idea that 1 am somehow even marginally responsible for neither you nor
heather , ever telling me that there was an unresolved issue, though you said you had been pinged a number of
times is emblematic .

I can do a call with you and Karp. anytime you like today, but ican assure you 100 percent that there is no
light between our positions. ZERO. and he is ready to do his best to try to explain it to you.

Date: Thu, Oct 1, 2015 at 11:03 PM

Subject: Fwd:

To: Melanie Spinella

to refresh your recollection, as 4 states. 40a year for three years. asisaid today. . the other was in addtion
as you recall.

Date: Thu, Apr 11, 2013 at 4:02 PM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella

1. 80 percent of contracted job is accomplished, now drafting ,signing and few critical decisions on your part
still await , will fill in nec blanks, 1, how much of upside to kids. , 2, protections . 3 allocations. 4.
charitiable, inventory, securities,

2 .to engage the second phase if youso choose , and considering there is only 8 more to be paid this

year in oct, for the job now almost completed, total of 23. that was agreed only for history fix.

3. with the necessary proprietary protections , proposal is for first year only an additional 17 . making it 40 , but
full year balance on signing , ie 25. takes care of 2013

4, moving forward , 40 per year ,( approx 1 percent ) for three years, to be credited against an agreed
formula. Im open to suggestions total approx 120 for new workover 3 years , benefits to you over the next 20.
5, can consider interests other than cash as payment. ?

6. need to speak re , bankers, valuations, mechanics and their continued importance.

Date: Fri, Oct 16, 2015 at 4:38 AM

Subject:
To: Melanie Spinella
Office, - adagoes. , hire heather a paralegal. Joslin goes or is closely managed by new cfo with tax

experience. .castrucii goes asap.as he merely adds to mess.( too many people , ex 7 people or more to pay a
bill ) eva goes. outsource as much as possible.. bookkeeping systems built from scratch, airplane
restructure, boat . same, new grats. phaidon sale , decide on artspace survivability, regan, . do the kids really
want these? , children accounting ie bens house.etc. re do estate for new facts. redo loans, trading accounts
activity, . gaming -foreign- disclosures. . BRH TRA rethinks . household and construction

architects. . redone. art partnership , choice of paintings. . re do structure of consultants. tax re family
office. . decide if investments are a realistic option in the next three years... insurance. operations. airplane ,
etc. . artfoundation , private. max charity contributions. financial reports. still waiting. ? on line
banking, . tax planning, family office deductions ( profit center ). airplane certificate, redone jet aviation
redo. . _— paper gigi ( E )trust to avoid gift tax. .

today is Oct 15

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023357
