I understand your frustrations and appreciate your willingness to figure out a solution. I have some ideas
which I will send you over the weekend if that is OK.

Re Broadcom: _ the stock is up $1.20 at $211.50. After the initial shock reaction of yesterday, there has been
a lot of focus on the cost synergies etc. but very little conviction in revenue opportunities. However until we
hear from management as to the overall intentions of the deal, uncertainty will linger.

This morning the pricing is as follows:

Aug 200 Puts cost $4.10
Sept 200 Puts cost $7.90

Earning are on 08/30. So worst case is the uncertainty lingers until then which would argue to buy the Sept
puts. However I still prefer buying the Aug puts as I would fully expect more clarity from management
before August expiry.

Paul

Paul Barrett
Alpha Group Capital LLC
142 W 57 Street, 11 Floor, New York, NY 10019

<image003.jpg>

From: jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com>
Sent: Friday, July 13, 2018 7:11 AM

To: Paul Barrett <>; Richard Kah (a

Subject:

Im not angry, sorry, itis sad. it is apparent that you have no experience trading. we both made a
mistake. . the spy trades were the results of arank amatuer.. youtook a postion on the direction of the
market. ok. you decided to play it extra short time and short. . why? becaue the options are cheaper.
? knowing full well that time premium was running. . first silly move. . I allowed as promised to

give you authority. . you seta target. . it hit the traget , you moved in back. based on media reporting on
trump visit? you didnt act. the market dipped and you panicked. . AMATEUR. wrong options wrong
timing , no discipline and as a percentaage of investment. a one day dip fof 25%. wanting to buy the
highter strike , is ok. but why the same month? why the same moment. why the same index. . sorry. I
have taught this for many years. and your gradeisanF. notone goodmoveinmany. ._ re

broadcom. the crack happend in the morning. options were higher. no alternative presented. no

analysis. , thisisno way to manage money. I have lost a great deal of money hoping you would be able
to do as you promised you could. would.. Had youtold me, jeffrey Id like to try a new job asa

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031815
