too lenient or too harsh and why?

-what is his side of the story and have people been
supportive?

-Is he continuing the charity initiatives he started
with Bill Clinton, etc?

----- Original Message-----

From: Jay Lefkowitz [mailto :
Sent: Mon 3/7/2011 12:18 PM

To: wolfe, Alexandra

Subject:

Dear Ms. Wolfe,

I understand you have some questions about my client,
Jeffrey Epstein. Given that much of the press coverage
surrounding Mr. Epstein has been inaccurate and in some
instances, defamatory, I would like to suggest that you
send me any facutal questions so that I can provide you
with accurate responses.

I_am_also available to speak with you. My number is

Thank you,

BERBAKAKEBASAEABAKAE EERE SEER AEE EERE AREER EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE E EEE

The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for

the use of the addressee. It is the property of
Kirkland & Ellis LLP or Kirkland & Ellis International
LLP.

Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly
prohibited

and may be unlawful. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by

return e-mail or by e-mail to postmaster@kirkland.com,
and

destroy this communication and all copies thereof,
including all attachments.

BARBARA AEAAAE AERA AE EERE E EEE AE SEER EEE REESE EER EEE EEE ESE SEES

This e-mail, including attachments, is intended for the
person(s)

or company named and may contain confidential and/or
legally

privileged information. Unauthorized disclosure,
copying or use of

this information may be unlawful and is prohibited. If
you are not

the intended recipient, please delete this message and
notify the

sender.

BABAK AEAAKAEA BAKER EERE E EAR AREER EERE ERE E ERE EEE EEE EEE EE EES

The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of

Kirkland & Ellis LLP or Kirkland & Ellis International LLP.
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019410
