146

Democracies worldwide are reckoning with the impact of “sharp power.”* From Central
Europe, where China has created the “16 + 1 Initiative,” to sub-Saharan Africa and
Latin America, where Chinese engagement in infrastructure and the media has grown
discernibly in recent years, China’s sharp power has come into view. A good deal more
study is needed to understand the impact of these influence activities globally. Only
with such understanding and comparative case studies can democratic societies craft
responses that safeguard the integrity of their institutions while staying true to liberal
democratic values.

NOTES

1 Sarah Cook, “The Long Shadow of Chinese Censorship: How the Communist Party’s Media Restrictions
Affect News Outlets Around the World,” Center for International Media Assistance, October 22, 2013,
accessed October 11, 2018, http://www.cima.ned.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/02/CIMA-China_Sarah%20
Cook.pdf.

2 Juan Pablo Cardenal, Jacek Kucharezyk, Grigorij MeseZnikov, and Gabriela Pleschova, Sharp Power:
Rising Authoritarian Influence (Washington, DC: National Endowment for Democracy, December 2017),
accessed October 11, 2018, https://www.ned.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/Sharp-Power-Rising
-Authoritarian-Influence-Full-Report.pdf.

AUSTRALIA

Australian journalists, scholars, officials, and political leaders have found themselves
on the frontlines of a global debate on how the Chinese Communist Party is working
to covertly manipulate the political processes of democracies around the world. The
Australian government has been the first to formulate a coherent and principled policy
response. These efforts have had a catalyzing international impact. Randall Schriver,
the Pentagon’s senior official for Asia, said Australia has “woken up people in a lot of
countries to take a look at Chinese activity within their own borders.”! Hillary Clinton,
the former New York senator and presidential candidate, said Australia (together
with New Zealand) has sounded the alarm on “a new global battle.”? Government
leaders in New Zealand, Canada, and the United Kingdom have all been paying close
attention to these growing Chinese activities. And yet, despite leading the way, effective
implementation is far from assured in Australia. Sustaining a counter-interference
strategy against the CCP—with its unrivalled resources and organization—will require
an unprecedented degree of policy fortitude and political strategy from Australian
political leaders on both sides of the parliamentary aisle as well as the support of
business leaders and the general public.

The Australia conversation has mostly been led by enterprising journalists and aided
by a handful of sinologists. It has been a healthy catalytic process in which security
agencies have been communicating warnings to institutions at risk and politicians

Appendix 2

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020605
