38 Teaching Minds

to train their employees in such things, because of some regulation or
other, ask for it, and e-learning companies willingly build it.

Unfortunately, as my mother would have attested to, were she still
around, I was born with off-the-scale honesty. I can’t build e-learning
I know won’t work any more than I was able, when I was 5, to let my
mother walk out of a store without paying (by mistake) without be-
coming hysterical.

So, now Lam hysterical about fraudulent education and fraudulent
e-learning—namely, courses that claim to teach subjects that alter the
very nature of a person. Of course, such courses don’t say that is what
they are trying to do, but it is pretty much the basis of courses about
safe driving or drugs or sexual behavior, or how not to violate the law.

How is training about compliance an attempt to alter basic
behavior?

Recently I was presented with an opportunity to teach integrity
and compliance to the employees of a large company that bids on
RFPs. The bidding process is part of a legal process and the company
wants its employees to stay within the guidelines.

Fair enough. Makes sense.

Except, when you look at the guidelines, they include an array
of rules spelled out in a complex document, typically a signed legal
contract for potential bidders. To know those rules, one would have
to read the contract. In effect, the company wants to train people to
read, and pay careful attention to, the contract. The company wants
to do this by putting employees in fictitious situations in which some-
one has not read the contract and this failure to read causes serious
difficulties for the company when the employee violates a rule he
didn’t know about.

Much of e-learning is like this. You are the manager of a large
project, which needs to finish on time, and is over budget. Do you:

steal money

lie about the time you have spent

tell the company it can keep the damn project

carefully explain to your superiors the problems that exist
and let them decide

Do people learn from stuff like this? Of course not. But everyone feels
better after producing it. At least I assume they do.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023784
