76 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

When Snowden applied to Booz Allen earlier in March 2013, the
company had no opening for a system administrator at the National
Threat Operations Center, an NSA unit in which it dealt with
Level 3 data. It did have an opening for an infrastructure analyst, a
lower-paying job involving maintaining the computer technology
necessary to monitor threats. Despite a cut in pay, Snowden took
that job. “Snowden was an IT guy, not a SIGINT analyst,” a former
NSA Signals Intelligence officer pointed out. “He was working as a
contracted infrastructure analyst for NSA’s Information Assurance
arm,...[which, ironically as it turned out] protects classified U.S.
communications from potential intruders.” Steven Bay, the manager
at Booz Allen who hired and supervised Snowden, recalled that the
first “red flag” came up soon after Snowden began he training, when
“Snowden began asking about a highly classified mass-surveillance
program” to which Snowden did not have access (although Bay did).
In retrospect, Bay realized that Snowden had applied for the job for a
specific reason. “He targeted our [Booz Allen] contract directly,” Bay
said. “Somehow he figured out that our contract, and what we did

© on that contract, were the types of gates he needed to get access to.” ®

Snowden subsequently told the South China Morning Post that
he took this job to “get access to lists of machines all over the world
the NSA had hacked.” If so, he was after the keys to the NSA’s king-
dom of global surveillance. Booz Allen held those keys. “He targeted
my company because we enjoy more access than other companies,”
Booz Allen’s vice-chairman Michael McConnell said with the bene-
fit of hindsight. As a result of the theft, he appraised, “an entire gen-
eration of intelligence was lost.” McConnell, a former NSA director,
was in a position to know.

Snowden’s sudden career change had both advantages and disad-
vantages for the enterprise he was planning. The main advantage
was that he would have proximity to the computers in which were
kept the “lists” he sought of NSA global sources. The main disad-
vantage, aside from a cut in salary, was that he would no longer be a
system administrator. This change meant he would no longer have
privileges to bypass password restrictions or temporarily transfer
data. Instead, as an infrastructure analyst, he would not have pass-

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 76 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019564
