ACKRELL

CHAPTER II Cannabis Science 101

antidepressant, antiemetic, anti-inflammatory, antinausea and antispasmodic. It also is believed to have
therapeutic applications, such as appetite stimulation, bronchodilation, neuroprotection and pain relief.

CBD (Cannabidiol: CBD is considered to be the second most abundant cannabinoid in canna-
bis. It is nonpsychoactive and is believed to counteract the psychoactive effects of THC. CBD also is
believed to have wide-ranging medicinal benefits: analgesic, antianxiety, antibacterial, anticancer, anti-
convulsant, antidepressant, antiemetic, anti-inflammatory, anti-insomnia, anti-ischemic, antipsychotic
and antispasmodic. In addition, CBD is believed to have therapeutic applications, including appetite
stimulation, bone-growth stimulation, immunosuppression and neuroprotection. CBD can be derived
from many cannabis strains, including low-THC strains ordinarily grown to produce industrial hemp
products.

CBC (Cannabichromene: CBC is thought to be the third most abundant cannabinoid in canna-
bis and is nonpsychoactive. Like THC and CBD, CBC is believed to have several medicinal bene-
fits, including analgesic, antibacterial, anticancer, antidepressant, antifungal, anti-inflammatory and
anti-insomnia. CBC is also used as a therapeutic bone-growth stimulant. Ongoing research seeks to
determine the role of CBC in reducing gastrointestinal inflammation. CBC may also have applications
in pain management—in addition to binding to the CB1 and CB2 endocannabinoid receptors, it has
been shown to interact with certain pain receptors.

CBG (Cannabigerol: CBG is nonpsychoactive and is believed to have several medicinal benefits—
analgesic, antibacterial, anticancer, antidepressant and antifungal—as well as a therapeutic application
for bone-growth stimulation. CBG is present primarily during the early stages of the cannabis plant’s
growth cycle; only small amounts can be extracted from the plant during its flowering stage (although
strains of cannabis have recently been bred to have high levels of CBG). CBG is believed to partially
counteract the psychoactive effects of THC and to decrease anxiety and muscle tension.

CBGA (Cannabigerolic Acid: CBGA is a nonpsychoactive precursor to all other cannabinoids,
including THC, CBD, CBC and CBG. Much of a cannabis plant’s CBGA ultimately transforms into
other cannabinoids through the chemical process of decarboxylation. CBGA is used for analgesic and
anti-inflammatory applications. Certain cannabis strains cultivated to produce industrial hemp prod-
ucts are believed to contain high levels of CBG relative to other strains.

CBN Cannabinol: CBN has been shown to produce some psychoactive effects and is believed to
have several medicinal benefits, such as analgesic, antibacterial, anticonvulsive, anti-inflammatory and
anti-insomnia. Unlike many other cannabinoids, CBN is not derived directly from CBGA decarboxyl-
ation; instead, it results from THC degradation. The CBN level of a cannabis plant is sometimes used
as a measure of the plant’s overall quality for consumption.

THCA _ Delta-9-Tetrahydrocannabinolic Acid: THCA is found abundantly in raw cannabis flower
and is the precursor to THC. THCA is nonpsychoactive and is believed to have several medicinal
benefits, including anticancer, anti-inflammatory and antispasmodic. THCA decarboxylates into THC
through drying or application of intense heat, such as the heat applied during smoking or vaporizing
the cannabis plant.

© 2017 Ackrell Capital, LLC | Member FINRA/SIPC 21

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024657
