OPINIONS.

Monday, July 29, 2013

Luring elephants into big tent

Republican national chairman Reince C. Priebus
could take a lesson from history in his efforts to
herd his fellow elephants into a big tent. Nobody
did a better job of coaxing feuding Republicans to
cooperate than Ray C. Bliss, the Akron, Ohio,
insurance man who chaired the national committee
from 1965 to 1969. His success is worth
remembering.

When Bliss became chairman in 1965, the
Republicans. were in much worse shape than in
2013: President Lyndon Johnson had won a Jand-
slide re-election over Arizona Sen. Barry
Goldwater, and the Democrats held large majorities
in both houses of Congress and the statehouses.

The party was deeply divided between “moder-
ates,” such as New York Gov. Nelson Rockefeller;
and “conservatives,” like Goldwater. The latter
appeared to bless strident voices when he famously
proclaimed; “Let me remind you that extremism in
defénse of liberty is no vice. And let me remind
. you also that moderation i in pursuit of justice is no
virtue.”

Although best known as a “nuts-and-bolts” party
mechanic, Bliss used a two-step approach to
address these ideological rifts.

The first step was to challenge voices that made
Republicans look extreme to voters. On Nov. 5, 1965,
he issued _n even-handed critique of “radicals” on the
leftand night, singling out a stamchly anti-communist
firebrand Robert Welch:

“One of my major concems in the matter of extrem-
ism of the radical right is that honest, patriotic andcon-
scientious conservatives may be misjudged because of
itesponsible radicals such as Robert Welch, who has
accused President Eisenhower of being 4 ‘dedicated,
conscious agent of the Communist conspiracy.”

“We've got to get this (party) in the middle of the
road,” Bliss explained, “Eisenhower and his people
have takenenough.”

‘There was a sharp badkdash, One letter writer called
Bliss “sneaky” and fisther:

“You recently asked all Republicans to get out of the

William Hershey & John C. Green

strongest and most effective anti-Communist orpaniza-
tion in the United States. I question your motives.”

Bliss wasn’t bothered by the criticism. “I don’t
have the fixation I have all the answers,” he told
reporters, “everything is compromise.”

His second step was leading Republicans to com-
mon ground.

The means was the Republican Coordinating
Committee. Its members were a cross-section of
the party: Eisenhower and four former presidential
candidates — Goldwater, Richard Nixon, Alfred
Landon and Thomas Dewey —~ as well as gover-
nors, members of Congress, state legislators, and
party leaders.

Eisenhower was a key to the committee’s work.

“He backed me up in the earlyd ys of my chair-
manship,” Bliss reported, “He had the respect of all
factions.”

The method was face-to-face dialogue.

“You don’t say anything nasty, at least not pub-
ticly, about somebody you're going to dinner with
tonight,” Bliss said.

The committee eventually produced 48 policy
proposals, offering an alternative to President
Johnson’s “Great Society” program.

In the end, Bliss got the results he wanted: the GOP

made a huge comeback in the 1966 elections, and in
1968, it won back the White House.

Of course, 2013 is not 1965, Mitt Romney i is no

Barry Goldwater, nor is the party division identical.
Andthe GOP may lack an Eisenhower to rally around.
Still, Chairman Priebus could take a lesson from
Chairman Bliss’ success in herding the elephants into a
big tent.
— William Hershey is a former Knight-Ridder
Washington corres pondent and Columbus bureau chief
Jor the Alron Beacon Journal and Dayton Daily News.
John Green is director of the Bliss Institute of

Applied Politics at the University of Alvon.

A Nau SURVEY SUSGESTS

ARE LIVING IN A\NORLD
com VENISIGN, cea ih ts

THAT 172 OF AMERICANS: |

tee ‘iM if i)

The Virgin Islands Daily News 31

‘Time to hard-delete Carlos Danger

When you puzzle over why the ele-
gant Huma Abedin ‘is propping up the
eel-like Anthony Weiner, you must
remember one thing: Huma was raised
in Saudi Arabia, where women are
treated worse by men than anywhere
else on the planet. ,

Comparatively speaking, the pol
from Queens probably seems like a
prince. Even though he’s a punk. After
he got caught sexting and flashing
women online in 2011, he promised to
“never, ever” do that to his family again
and slouched away from Congress..He
cyber-creeped other young women in a.
pervy bout of tweet du seigneur as his
wife traveled the world with Hillary
Clinton while she was secretary of
state.

Yet, while married to the claSsy, gor--
geous mother of his infant son-and
planning a redemptive run for mayor,
he told a Facebook friend and phone-
sex partner he had never met that he

“loved her. Then he told her to “hard-

delete” all their correspondence — if
that is what you call it.

Aside from his zany Zorro-like nom
de pom, Carlos Danger, Weiner h s been
called many things. His‘digital girlfriend
and fellow extreme exhibitionist, Sydney
Leathers (whose n me sounds like anom
de porn), said that Weiner described him-
selfto her accurately as “an argumenta-
tive, perpetually homy middle-aged
map.” :

But Weiner’s Goyaesque grotesquerie
eams him another name: the “Rosemary’s
Baby” of the Clintons.

Bill nd Hillary Clinton transf ormed
the way we look at sex scandals. They
plowed through the: ridicule, refused to
slink away in'shame like Gary Hart, said
it was old news, and argued that if Hillary

didn’t object, why should voters?

Poppy Bush thought Amerigans would

reject Bill Clinton ii 1992 because of his
lascivious ways, but he learned that vot-

efs are more concerned with how their

‘<own lives will be changed than they are

with politicians’ duplicitous private lives.
Americans keep moving the marker of
cceptable behavior, partly as a reflection
of the coarsening of society and partly as
a public acknowledgment that many pols
with complicated personal lives have
been good public servants.

Now, defining deviancy downward,
Seiior and Seiiora Danger are using the
Cimton playbook.

The difference is, there’s nothing i in
Weiner’s public life that is redeeming. In
12 years in Congress, he m naged to get
only one minor bill passed, on behalf ofa
donor, and he doesn’t werk well with
people. He knows how to be loud on
cable and wave his Zorro sword in our
faces

Some sex scandals, like Mark
Sanford’s, fall into the realm of flawed
human nature, nd some, like Weiner’s, .
fall into the realm of “Seriously, what is

Py

Maureen Dowd

wrong with you?”

Huma gained renown, movie star suit-
ors and a Vogue spread as the stylish
Muslim Garbo silently and efficiently
parting the waves for Hillary. She had to
be resilient to work her way up from
intern to consigliere in ‘tough
Hillaryworld, and she saw firsthand how
the Clintons beat back foes.

They love Huma, but the Clintons,
now showcasing philanthropy and public
service preparatory to Hillary’s 2016 run,
are not happy about getting dragged into
the lewd spectacle that is a low-budget
movie version of their masterpiece.

The former president is distancing
himself, one associate said, noting, “He’s
not getting anywhere near that grenade.”

Huma’s friends are “slappmg-my-fore-
head astounded,” as one put it, that
Weiner would get in the race knowing
the online land mines that would rock
Huma’s world again and torpedo the

Weiner wooed Huma assiduously,
showing up at the Westchester airport
in the wee hours to pick her up when
she came back from trips with Hillary.
“They were two hyperdrive young
brains that just clicked,” said a friend.
“She liked his Borscht Belt humor.”

Her circle understands that “you love
who you love,” as one put it, marveling
at Weiner’s “madonna-whore” com-
plex played out online. But that doesn’t
méan that you ask people to vote for
someone who’s dreadfully flawed for a
major office, just because you love
him. :

They are wortied that Huma’s deci-
sion to vouch for her husband i is-start-
ing to hurt her, the one person they all
assumed woiild: never bé-ensnared m
anything weird or bad. “The hard stink
of this one is going to get ou everyone
involved,” said one friend:

Another agreed: “As soon as she stood
up to. say those words she changed her-
self from a sophisticated, mysterious
guiding intelligence and beauty next to
Hillary Clinton to the wife of a tamished
Anthony Weiner.” ;

They fear Huma learned the wrong
lesson from Hillary, given that Bill was a
roguish genius while Weiner’s a creepy
loser.

“Bill Clinton was the greatest political
and policy mind of a generation,” said
one. “Anthony is behaving similarly
without the chops or résumé.”

- As often as Bill apologized, he didn’t
premise he would “never, ever” do it
again, s Weiner did.

“What people won’t forgive is lying in
the apology,” said the Clinton pal. “It has
to be sincere, and it sure as hell has to be
accurate,”’

— Maureen Dowd is a New York
Times columnist.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021727
