40 Teaching Minds

thinking? Nothing. He was thinking nothing. Correct action is rarely
about thought, especially when little time for thinking is available.

So, then, how do we teach people to do the right thing, especially
when the right thing is not in line with their normal behavior?

Can we teach nurturance, or aggression, or extroversion, or or-
derliness? I hope that it is obvious that we cannot do this. People are
born with these characteristics. They are not learned. Ask any parents
of more than one child. They will respond that their children had
certain personality traits that were apparent from birth. My grandson
Milo is a neatnik. Everything has to be in its place. Also, he loves to
perform in front of an audience. His parents do not share and did not
teach him these behaviors. The degree to which we have such traits
defines our innate personalities. So, we need to translate this question
into one we can answer.

The real issue is one of degree and not of kind. You will never
teach someone who is fundamentally dishonest to be very honest,
or vice versa. You will never teach someone who is very aggressive to
be very passive. What you can do is make people aware of the conse-
quences of their actions and hope to change their behavior slightly,
when they have the time to think about what they are about to do.
You can make people aware of their behavior, and their rational selves
can direct what they do, if they have time to think about. But their
subconscious is likely to want them to behave differently, and it is
their subconscious that is usually in charge in a pinch.

Someone who hates details is not a good candidate for being
taught to read contracts in detail. Similarly, someone who loves de-
tails is not a great candidate for sales rep. (Why? Because being very
people-oriented is actually a characteristic that never goes hand in
hand with being detail-oriented.) So, it is not uncommon for com-
panies to be faced with the arduous task of training their salespeople
to pay attention to detail. Telling them to hire differently is hopeless,
because people who are both very detail-oriented and love engaging
people socially do not exist. Accountants don’t usually win personal-
ity contests. What to do?

This is indeed a job for teaching but not for teaching of the usual
sort. To see what kind of job it is, we need to think for a moment about
how the mind works. Specifically, we need to think about how the
unconscious learns to make decisions.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023786
