of the International Centre for Missing and Exploited Children and an organizer of the June
conference. The gathering catalyzed the creation of a task force to consider how policymakers should
respond to Bitcoin's emergence. It is expected to issue its recommendations early next year.

Allen says that conversations among members of that task force have changed how he thinks about
the online payment network. Allen now believes that premature regulation would be
counterproductive.

We are enthusiastic about the potential of virtual currencies and the digital economy,” Allen said in
his Monday testimony before the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
Allen said he remained concerned about the use of the currency for exchanging child pornography,
but he warned that draconian regulations could push Bitcoin enterprises underground and
overseas, where it would be much harder to police for illicit uses.

The Senate studies Bitcoin

Staff on the Homeland Security Committee, which is chaired by Sen. Tom Carper (D-Del.), had been
preparing for their Bitcoin hearing for several months. Committee staffers began to study the topic in
earnest in April, when the value of one bitcoin spiked to $266, generating a wave of media attention.
Over the summer, committee staff interviewed around 50 experts in industry, government, academic
and nonprofit organizations to learn how the Bitcoin network worked and how it might affect the
economy and law enforcement. Committee staffers talked to government agencies, bankers, and
technologists. They also talked extensively to representatives of the Bitcoin Foundation.

The committee consulted with Dan Kaminsky, a well-known security expert who conducted

an influential security analysis of the Bitcoin software in 2011. Staffers talked to Sarah Meiklejohn, a
computer scientist at the University of California, San Diego, about whether Bitcoin is truly
anonymous (it isn't). And they talked to Jerry Brito, a researcher at the Mercatus Center, a libertarian
think tank. Brito testified at Monday's hearing.

In August, the committee sent a series of letters to federal agencies seeking their views on Bitcoin and
other virtual currencies. Letters were sent to the Department of Homeland Security, the Treasury
Department, the Federal Reserve, the Justice Department and other agencies with regulatory
authority related to financial markets or online crime. The letters asked the agencies to provide details
of any inquiries they had conducted into the virtual currencies, and to describe whether they had
plans to regulate the currency in the future.

Meanwhile, representatives from the Bitcoin Foundation met with a number of executive branch

officials at a closed-door meeting in August. What the Bitcoin Foundation tried to stress is that
Bitcoin is less useful for [illicit] purposes than other centralized virtual currencies, said Brito, who
attended the meeting. Bitcoin advocates also stressed that excessive regulation in the United States
would merely push more of the Bitcoin economy overseas, where U.S. regulators might not be able to

reach it at all.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029965
