real part a, plus b times the imaginary part, b/’; that is, z = a + bi. We can then set
up a geometric space to represent z by imagining a two dimensional plane with the
horizontal real axis extending from left to right, the usual x axis, and the vertical
dimension, called the imaginary axis, extending from bottom to top like the standard
y axis. These two axes, going from negative values to positive ones, left to right and
bottom to top, cross at the shared value of 0. Thus a and 6 can be visualized as the
rectangular coordinates of a point in the plane and the point locates the complex
number, z = a + bi. Since real parts and imaginary parts are like apples and pears
and for addition, like must be added to like, if two complex numbers, a+ bi and c +
di are equal, then a = c and b = d and their sum Is written (a+ c)+(b+d)i.

Now that we’ve set up a point z on the plane, located with a complex number
at z = a + bi, we can then draw an arrow, called a vector, from the intersection of the
imaginary and real axis at 0 to this point z. Its length from 0 to z, 0z, we'll call that
length p, is the size or amplitude-like modulus of the complex number, z = a +i.
The angle this 0z vector makes with the real, Oa-axis, lets call this angle ¢, is called
the argument of complex number z = a +bi. p is a length that can grow or shrink, ¢
is an angle that can rotate. We imagine vectorial movement like that of a variable
length hand of a clock. This geometric explication of complex numbers prepares us
to visualize complex numbered eigenvalue solutions to matrices representing the
relevant equations that bifurcate to limit cycles and directional good and evil

splitting. represents the dilatable clock’s radial amplitude of circular motion and
¢, the angle of vectorial turning from the 0a-axis.

The complex conjugate of the complex number, a + bi is the complex number
a — bi in which the sign of the imaginary part is reversed. Geometrically, this means
that a pair of complex conjugate numbers with the »’s of both having below zero
values relative to the Oa-axis, that is negative real parts, could be imagined as the
points indicated by two same sized, mirror image, clock hands pointing at 8:00 and
10:00 o’clock. Note that the ¢, the angle of vectorial deviation of the arrow pair from
the Oa-axis, turn in opposite directions in these mirror image moving clock hand

vectors. Without going deeper into the representation of the actions of the system in

163

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013663
