costs me more than just the price I paid for the product, both in time and actual postage. Risk elimination
just isn’t enough.

This is where we enter the neglected realm of lose-win guarantees and risk reversal. The NR use what
most consider an afterthought—the guarantee—as a cornerstone sales tool.

The NR aim to make it profitable for the customer even if the product fails. Lose-win guarantees not
only remove risk for the consumer but put the company at financial risk.

Here are a few examples of putting your money where your mouth is.

Delivered in 30 minutes or less or it’s free!
(Domino’s Pizza built its business on this guarantee.)

We’re so confident you'll like CIALIS, if you don’t we’ll pay for the brand of your choice.
(The “CIALIS® Promise Program” offers a free sample of CIALIS and then offers to pay for
competing products if CIALIS doesn’t live up to the hype.)

If your car is stolen, we’ll pay $500 of your insurance deductible.
(This guarantee helped THE CLUB become the #1-selling mechanical automobile anti-theft device in
the world.)

110% guaranteed to work within 60 minutes of the first dose.

(This was for BodyQUICK and a first among sports nutrition products. I offered to not only refund
customers the price of the product if it didn’t work within 60 minutes of the first dose, but also to send
them a check for 10% more.)

The lose-win guarantee might seem like a big risk, especially when someone can abuse it for profit like
in the BodyQUICK example, but it isn’t ... if your product delivers. Most people are honest.

Let’s look at some actual numbers.

Returns for BodyQUICK, even with a 60-day return period (and partially because of it), are less
than 3% in an industry in which the average is 12-15% for a normal 30-day 100% money-back
guarantee. Sales increased more than 300% within four weeks of introducing the 110% guarantee, and
returns decreased overall.

Johanna adopted this lose-win offer and came up with “Increase sport-specific flexibility 40% in two
weeks or return it for a full refund (including shipping) and keep the 20-minute bonus DVD as our gift.”

Sherwood found his guarantee as well: “If these shirts are not the most comfortable you’ ve ever worn,
return them and get 2-times your purchase price back. Each shirt is also guaranteed for life—if it gets
threadbare, send it back and we’ll replace it free of charge.”

Both of them increased sales more than 200% in the first two months. Return percentage remained the
same for Johanna and increased 50% for Sherwood, from 2 to 3%. Disaster? Far from it. Instead of
selling 50 and getting one back with a 100% guarantee [(50 x $100) — $100 = $4,900 in revenue], he sold
200 and got six back with the 200% guarantee [(200 x $100) — (6 x $200) = $18,800 in revenue]. I'll take
the latter.

Lose-win is the new win-win. Stand out and reap the rewards.

Little Blue Chip: How to Look Fortune 500 in 45 Minutes

Are you tired of sand being kicked in your face? I promise you new muscles in days!

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013930
