Michael Morell, a former acting CIA director, casts light on the sourcing of the dirt in the Steele
dossier. “I had two questions when I first read [the dossier],” Morell said in an NBC interview.
“One was, how did Chris [Steele] talk to these sources? I have subsequently learned that he used
intermediaries. I asked myself, why did these guys provide this information, what was their
motivation? And I subsequently learned that he paid them. That the intermediaries paid the sources
and the intermediaries got the money from Chris.”

Paying ex-FSB officers for sensitive information? As Steele is no doubt aware, there is no such
thing as an ex-FSB officer. All Russian intelligence officers, whether currently or formerly
employed, if in Russia, operate under the same tough security regime. The selling of secret
information by them is espionage, pure and simple. Selling it to someone connected to an adversary
intelligence service greatly compounds the crime. Sources A and B (through their intermediaries)
knew that they were dealing with an ex-MI-6 man who could use their betrayal of secrets against
them. The only safe way for A and B to provide the requested dirt would be to clear it with the
security regime at the FSB. This precaution, a required step in such exchanges, would mean that the
dirt in the dossier, whether true or false, was curated by the FSB and spoon-fed to Steele. If so, the
FSB was the surreptitious provider of this part of the Steele dossier.

The third disclosure operation involved stolen emails from the DNC bearing on the unfair treatment
by Democratic Party officials of Bernie Sanders, which were posted on the DC Leaks website.
President Obama identified the Kremlin as the author of this operation, saying “These data theft
and disclosure activities could only have been directed by the highest levels of the Russian
government.” If so, as in the previous cases, the FSB would have curated the dirt. To be sure, oppo-
research operatives, because of their singular focus on getting usable slime, are highly vulnerable to
shady offers, but why would Russia so blatantly feed the slime to all sides in a campaign?

The United States has a wide array of tools for monitoring Russian intelligence, including the
world’s most sophisticated sensors for intercepting signals, but discovering the Kremlin’s motives
remains an elusive enterprise because, unlike in a scientific inquiry, one cannot fully trust the
observable data. While a scientist can safely assume that the microbes he observes through the lens
of a microscope are not employing guile to mislead him, an intelligence analyst cannot make
similar assumptions about the content of intercepted communications from Russia. If one assumes
that the Russians do not know that the channel is being monitored—an assumption which,
following the defection of Edward Snowden to Russia, is hard to make prudently—then the
intelligence gleaned from that channel can reveal the Kremlin’s activities and motive. If, however,
it is understood that the Russians know that a channel is being monitored, the information conveyed
over it can be considered a disclosure operation.

If, for example, a Mafia family finds out that the FBI is tapping its telephone lines, it can use those
lines to burn its rivals. The Kremlin can also use a knowntapped phone line to its advantage.
Consider, for example, the tapped phone of Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak. On December 1,
2016, Kislyak went to Trump Tower to meet Jared Kushner and Michael Flynn. According to
Kushner’s version of that meeting, Kislyak suggested that Russian generals could supply
information about Russian military operations in Syria on the condition that the Trump transition
team provide a “secure line in the transition office.” Of course, as Kislyak likely knew, transition
teams don’t have secure lines to Moscow. Kushner responded by asking if the Russian embassy

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025549
