The Early Foundations program focuses on providing individual learning opportunities that are flexible
and appropriate to each child's development level. KLC OpCo believes that the Early Foundations
program distinguishes the Company from other child care providers.

11.8. Management Team and Board of Directors

KLC OpCo is led by a highly experienced management team comprised of experts in the field of
education, as well as business professionals. This combination of talent is expected to drive continued
success of KLC OpCo. These individuals are also supported by a seasoned executive and middle
management team with average Company tenure of ten years. The following table sets forth KLC OpCo’s
management team and the board of directors of its parent company, KSI. Detailed biographies can be
found in Appendix A.

Management of KLC

Name Position

Elanna Yalow Director, President and Chief Operating Officer

Mark Moreland Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer

Toni Jaffe Senior Vice President, Human Resources

Eva Kripalani Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
Corporate Secretary

Marcy Suntken Senior Vice President, School Partnerships

Dan Frechtling Senior Vice President, Marketing and Business Development

Sharon Bergen Senior Vice President, Education and Training

Stephen Brown President and Chief Executive Officer, KCDL

Name Position

Les Biller Retired Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer of Wells
Fargo & Company. KUE Advisory Board

Ralph Finerman President of RFG Financial Group, Inc.

Stephen Goldsmith Professor of Government at Harvard University’s Kennedy
School of Government. Senior Vice President of KUE

Steven Green Chairman and CEO of ki Ventures and Greenstreet Real
Estate Partners. Vice Chairman of KUE

Stanley Maron Senior shareholder in the law firm Maron & Sandler

Lowell Milken Chairman of KSI Board, President and Chief Executive Officer
of KUE

Wendi Murdoch Advisor to News Corporation

Jeff Safchik Co-founder, Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer of
Greenstreet Real Estate Partners. Chief Financial Officer of
KUE

Richard Sandler Shareholder in the law firm Maron & Sandler. General

Counsel for KUE

88

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024521
