7O | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

down the opportunity for a whistle-blowing scoop for The Guard-
ian. After all, the classified documents Snowden would provide him
would also give credence to both Greenwald’s book and his many
blogs denouncing U.S. government surveillance.

Aside from Greenwald and Poitras, Snowden sought an outlet
inside the American establishment. So he had Poitras write to Barton
Gellman, the Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter for The Washington
Post. Poitras had met Gellman in 2010, when they were both fellows
at NYU’s Center on Law and Security. Poitras had requested help
in encrypting her computer from Karen Greenberg, the executive
director of the center, who took her “by the hand” to meet Gellman,
Greenberg’s resident expert on encryption software. Born in 1960,
Gellman graduated from Princeton in 1981 and became an award-
winning investigative reporter for the Miami Herald, the Post, and
Time magazine. He was also the author of Angler: The Cheney Vice
Presidency. If Gellman could be drawn into the enterprise, he could
provide Snowden with a gateway to the prestigious American paper
credited with bringing down President Richard Nixon in the Water-

® gate scandal. ©

Poitras, as the go-between for Snowden, immediately contacted
Gellman. After telling him she was involved in a story about NSA
surveillance, she suggested that they meet in New York City.

For their rendezvous, Poitras took a number of precautions to
evade anyone attempting to follow her. She had Gellman first meet
her in one coffee shop in lower Manhattan. When he arrived, she had
him follow her on foot to another coffee shop, following her anti-
surveillance tradecraft. Once assured no one was watching them, she
ordered coffee for herself and Gellman. Over coffee, she told Gell-
man about Snowden, whom she described as her anonymous source.
She said that he was willing to supply Gellman with documents that
would expose domestic surveillance, if Gellman agreed to write a
story on it for the Post. Even though Gellman had left the staff of
the Post in 2010, he had previously written several stories on that
subject for the newspaper, and he was also highly regarded by the
editors there, Gellman was interested in Poitras’s offer (although he
would consult a friend at the Justice Department about the legality
of publishing NSA documents).

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 70 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019558
