I.

‘
bs
c

Qa
LA

ACKRELL

Pr

CHAPTER IV U.S. Legal Landscape

m The Path to Federal Legalization

We believe that cannabis will eventually become federally legal for recreational enjoyment by adults
and for use in a broad range of safe drugs and therapeutic products. A wide gulf currently separates
federal policy from state legalization initiatives. Both federal and state regulators lack experience with
science-based regulation that allows cannabis access, but they approach this lack of experience differ-
ently. Current federal policy is slow-turning and bureaucratic; it requires rigorous scientific evidence
that cannabis is safe and effective but largely prohibits the industry from developing that evidence.
State legalization initiatives are experimental: they start by legalizing the cannabis industry, then task
state regulators with implementing rules and safeguards as the industry builds its scientific foundation
and its markets.

We believe that federal policy will move (and may already be moving) in a new direction which
allows for federally approved cannabis-derived drugs. If that happens, and if several cannabis-derived
drugs are federally approved, we expect the FDA and the DEA will have developed data and protocols
that facilitate more rapid approval of medical cannabis products. And if that happens, these federal
agencies should be able to combine their science-based regulatory practices with the best practices of
state regulators to develop a comprehensive federal approach to medical and recreational cannabis.

DEA and FDA Policy Direction

The path to federal legalization begins with understanding that current federal law, in theory, allows for
the production, distribution and prescription of medical cannabis products in the United States. The
DEA can register manufacturers to produce medical cannabis products in accordance with the CSA.
The FDA can approve medical cannabis products for distribution in accordance with the FD&C Act.
The DEA (an agency of the DOJ) and the FDA (an agency of the DHHS) together can cause medical
cannabis products to be rescheduled under the CSA so that doctors legally can prescribe them. None
of these regulatory actions requires a change in law. Technically, cannabis is not entirely prohibited by
federal law.

But in any practical sense, cannabis is federally prohibited. For nearly 50 years, the DEA has regis-
tered only one cannabis manufacturer. The FDA has never approved a cannabis-derived drug. Because
marijuana remains a Schedule I controlled substance, the lone DEA-registered cannabis manufacturer
can produce cannabis only for strictly controlled research, and doctors cannot prescribe any marijuana
compound or derivative as medicine. A duo of federal regulatory agencies—not federal law—prohibits
lawful access to medical cannabis products; this may be changing. The DEA and the FDA appear to be
exploring policies and practices that could result in the actual production, distribution and prescription
of cannabis-derived drugs.

In August 2016, the DEA announced a new policy designed to increase (beyond one) the number
of DEA-registered cannabis cultivators and permit-registered cultivators to grow cannabis for privately
funded commercial drug development projects. The DEA has since accepted at least 25 applications for
registration but has not issued any new registrations. Some observers believe the new policy initiative
has stalled under the leadership of the DOJ, currently run by U.S. Attorney General Sessions. How-

© 2017 Ackrell Capital, LLC | Member FINRA/SIPC 85

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024721
