the possible course I believe deserves most consideration when a sitting president has been
found to have committed a crime: indict-and-postpone. While I would not call the few
mentions of that possibility “mere dicta,” I believe the scant discussion of the point should
not preclude an independent judgment by subsequent officials. The notion that such a course
would cause reputational harm—though it would not physically interfere with the
president’s attention to his duties—seems to be a point of policy, not constitutional law. For
a helpful analysis of this question, see Bob Bauer’s posting.

In any event, OLC has never suggested that a president cannot be an unindicted co-
conspirator.

Conclusions

The history of positions taken by the executive branch of the United States on the indictment
of a sitting president is more varied and complex than is generally assumed. For that reason,
whether or not a president can be indicted or named as an unindicted co-conspirator should
not be considered a settled question.

I am convinced that putting a president on trial would be inconsistent with the Article IT
responsibilities of the modern presidency. Others—Larry Tribe included—are less certain
and also point to the 25th Amendment, arguing that if being on trial or incarcerated
precluded a president from being able to perform his duties, the 25th Amendment provides a
theoretical if impractical avenue for the vice president to take over in successive 21-day
increments during that time. I see the point, but I believe that approach could too easily set
aside the determination of the electorate. People vote for a president, not a vice president. It
would be no small matter, for example, to have had Sarah Palin step in for John McCain.

If a guilty president is not to be indicted, he or she should in any event be included in the
charging instrument as an unindicted co-conspirator, an option that has been expressly
defended by the United States before the Supreme Court. And once it has been established
that a president can be an unindicted co-conspirator, the case for categorically precluding
indictment of a president is significantly weakened.

| have argued previously that there should be no categorical bar to the indictment of a sitting
president. Clinton v. Jones establishes that a president has a substantial burden of showing
that normal processes of litigation are incompatible with his duties—and while that showing
can be made for an actual criminal trial, it is difficult to make such a showing for naming a
president in a grand jury indictment as long as trial proceedings are postponed until a
president is no longer in office.

What, then, is the argument against indictment? Perhaps it casts a greater cloud. On the other
hand, the most important reason for issuing an indictment, rather than merely naming the
president as unindicted co-conspirator, is to prevent the statute of limitations from expiring.
This, in my view, is an important consideration. Indeed, a president might seek reelection

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030207
