2014] CRIME VICTIMS’ RIGHTS 71

to consider in crafting a plea. Similarly, allowing victims to participate
early in the process avoids retraumatizing victims. Again, as the Epstein
case usefully illustrates, it may be extremely difficult for victims to
discover after the fact that potential criminal charges against a criminal who
has abused them have been secretly bargained away. Jane Doe Number
One and Jane Doe Number Two, for example, were outraged when they
discovered prosecutors had entered into an agreement blocking any
prosecution of sex offenses Epstein committed against them—and all
without telling them.™*

In short, the purposes animating the CVRA all suggest that the Act
was meant to, and should, extend rights to crime victims before formal
charges are filed.

B. THE CVRA’S PLAIN LANGUAGE

While the general purposes of the CVRA_ support a_ broad
interpretation of the Act, it is important to examine whether those purposes
have been expressed in the Act’s language. Without a linkage to the Act’s
text, the general purpose might not provide a sound basis for
interpretation.°*+ But the CVRA’s plain language makes clear that Congress
intended for the law to provide at least some rights to crime victims
throughout the criminal justice process, even before the filing of criminal
charges.

According to its text, the CVRA provides eight specifically
enumerated rights for crime victims and an additional right to be reasonably
notified of these rights.°? Some of these rights presuppose the formal filing
of criminal charges. For instance, the CVRA extends to victims the “right
to reasonable, accurate, and timely notice of any public court proceeding.”*°
That particular right obviously does not apply before charges are filed, as
no “court proceedings” exist before a defendant is charged.

But the CVRA also promises crime victims rights that are not
specifically tied to court proceedings. Perhaps most expansively, the
CVRA guarantees victims the “right to be treated with faimess and with

3 Without disclosing confidential attorney-client communications, this fact is readily
apparent from victims’ filings in the Epstein case. See, e.g., Jane Doe Motion, supra note 40, at
17 (stating that the victims relied on the U.S. Attorney’s Office representatives “to their
detriment{,]” that if they knew the true facts, “they would have taken steps to object” to the plea
agreement, and that they believed criminal prosecution to be “extremely important”).

4 See ANTONIN SCALIA & BRYAN A. GARNER, READING Law: THE INTERPRETATION OF
LEGAL TEXTS 56 (2012).

°° 18 U.S.C. § 3771(a) (2012) (enumerating eight rights), id. § 3771(c)(1) (requiring
government officers use “their best efforts” to notify victims of their rights).

%© Td. § 3771 (a)(2).

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014050
