Can we afford to wait until the turning point comes? By 2025, entitlements plus net
interest payments will absorb all — yes, all — of USA Inc.'s revenue, per CBO.

Entitlement Spending + Interest Payments Alone Should

Exceed USA Inc. Total Revenue by 2025E, per CBO

Entitlement Spending + Interest Payments vs. Revenue as % of GDP, 1980 — 2050E

a

—— Revenue

30% . —o—Entitlement Spending + Net fo pr.
Interest Payments

20% eager

10% — poo

Total Revenue & Entitlement + Net Interest
Payments as % of GDP

0% 1 1 T T T T T T
1980 1990 2000 2010E 2020E 2030E 2040E 2050E

Source: Congressional Budget Office (CBO) Long-Term Budget Outlook (6/10). Note that entitlement spending includes federal government expenditures on Social
Security, Medicare and Medicaid. Data in our chart is based on CBO’s ‘alternative fisca/ scenario’ forecast, which assumes a continuation of today’s underlying
fiscal policy. Note that CBO aiso maintains an ‘extended-baseline’ scenario, which adheres closely to current law. The ailternative fiscal scenario deviates from

CBO’s baseline because it incorporates some policy changes that are widely expected fo occur (such as extending the 2001-2003 tax cuts rather than letting them
expire as scheduled by current law and adjusting physician payment rates to be in line with the Medicare economic index rather than at fower scheduled rates) and
that policymakers have requiarly made in the past.

www.kpcb.com USA Inc. | Summary

Less than 15 years from now, in other words, USA Inc. — based on current forecasts for revenue
and expenses - would have nothing left over to spend on defense, education, infrastructure, and
R&D, which today account for only 32% of USA Inc. spending, down from 69% forty years ago.
This critical juncture is getting ever closer. Just ten years ago, the CBO thought federal revenue
would support entitlement spending and interest payments until 2060 — 35 years beyond its
current projection. This dramatic forecast change over the past ten years helps illustrate, in our
view, how important it is to focus on the here-and-now trend lines and take actions based on
those trends.

How would a turnaround expert determine ‘normal’ revenue and expenses?

The first step would be to examine the main drivers of revenue and expenses. It’s not a pretty
picture. While revenue — mainly taxes on individual and corporate income — is highly correlated
(83%) with GDP growth, expenses — mostly entitlement spending — are less correlated (73%)
with GDP. With that as backdrop, our turnaround expert might try to help management and
shareholders (citizens) achieve a long-term balance by determining “normal” levels of revenue
and expenses:

CB www.kpcb.com USA Inc. xiii

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020836
