In light of the trend toward democracy in Africa as exemplified by Nigeria and Guinea, it is very concerning
that one of the United States’ closest allies and Africa's strongest democracies appears to be retrogressing. The
destabilization of democracy in Senegal could have significant consequences in the entire region. The United
States must get in front of this negative trend before spreads across Africa and it is too late. The U.S. should
call for President Sall to honor the request of the UN Working Group and release his political rival Mr. Wade
and also keep his pledge of a 5 year presidential mandate. President Obama has said that Africa is more
important than ever to security and prosperity in the U.S. We have worked very hard in implementing and
prioritizing democracy and democratic succession in Africa. The Obama administration must not let our hard
work be compromised in Senegal, we have worked too hard and come too far.

<image001 .gif>
Vinoda Basnayake

Of Counsel and Chair of DC Government Relations
ee
Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough LLP

101 Constitution Avenue, NW, Suite 900
Washington, DC 20001

Tel:

Fax:

www.nelsonmullins.com
(View Bio)

From: elisabeth feliho [mailt ==

Sent: Tuesday, February 23, 2016 5:20 AM

To: Vinoda Basnayake; Bob Crowe

Cc: Cheikh Tidiane Sy; Mohamed Seydou Diagne; El Hadji Amadou Sall
Subject: Revised letter. Arbitrary detention of Mr. Wade

Dear Vinoda and Bob,

Please see attached the last version of the revised draft letter. We have made some modifications and amendments
we submit to your proposal. You can finalize the letter as it suits you. We strongly recommend to wait Wednesday
or Tuesday this week before sending the letter as Amnesty International will issue on Wednesday 24 February
its worldwide report on human right situation. It is highly probable that major statement will be made on Mr.
Wade case in the report on Senegal, which will give us more input for the letter.

Many thanks and best regards.

EF
Confidentiality Notice

This message is intended exclusively for the individual or entity to which it is addressed. This communication
may contain information that is proprietary, privileged, confidential or otherwise legally exempt from
disclosure.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026838
