emphasis on inter-dependence, commonness, and openness to change in response to authority. These
differences in self-perception show up when we attend to faces of familiar individuals. Chinese subjects,
representative of a collectivistic and inter-dependent society, responded more quickly to seeing their
boss’s face than seeing their own face. In contrast, American subjects responded more quickly to their
own face than to any other person’s face, including that of their boss. Like Platt’s monkeys, therefore, we
too place value on social information. Unlike Platt’s monkeys, our sense of value in the social domain is
modulated by our cultural upbringing. This modulation, and the brain states that accompany it, shows up
in direct comparisons of individuals who are motivated to attain high dominance status with those who
are motivated to create equality.

The American social psychologist Joan Chiao used survey information to establish two groups of
individuals based on those who preferred to live in an egalitarian society and those who preferred a
hierarchical society. These individuals then entered a brain scanner and viewed pictures of people
experiencing pain. Two areas, both associated with the personal experience of pain and the perception of
pain in others, were highly active. But these areas were less active in those who preferred hierarchies
than those who preferred egalitarianism. This finding, as Chiao notes, is consistent with the idea that in
an egalitarian society, empathy for others well-being is essential. In egalitarian societies, seeing someone
who has less or is being harmed by another, should motivate a desire to redress the imbalance and reduce
the harm. In a dog-eat-dog hierarchical society, where dominants outcompete subordinates and inequities
are part of life, concern for those at the bottom is a sign of weakness. These results show how cultural
influences can shape brain activity, leading some to develop deep desires for dominance and inequities,
whereas others develop deep desires for equality. These brain areas heighten our sensitivity to what others
have, what we desire, and how our desires are modulated by what others have. These comparisons
motivate us to improve our status either by working harder — a good thing — or taking down those

above us —a bad thing.

I'll have what she’s having

One of the most famous lines in movie history was delivered by Estelle Reiner in When Harry Met Sally,
a comedy produced by her son Rob Reiner. While Estelle is seated at a table in a delicatessen, Sally —
played by Meg Ryan — fakes having an orgasm to show Harry — played by Billy Crystal — that he
can’t tell the difference between fakes and the real deal. Overhearing Ryan’s performance, Estelle turns

to the waiter and says “I’ll have what she’s having.” This is comparative shopping, cashing in on

Hauser Chapter 2. Runaway desire 66

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012812
