did Nygren oppose the caritas view of
Christian love? The answer is that the
meaning of love as caritas did exactly
what Nygren thought Paul and Luther,
his theological heroes, did not do. In the
classic Roman Catholic view, love as
caritas builds on eros. Caritas was seen
to include natural desires for health and
affiliation. But the caritas view of love
also held that religious education and
God’s grace built on and expanded these
natural inclinations to entail a self-giving
benevolence to others, even strangers
and enemies — an idea so central to the
concept of Christian love.

All of this seemed too
naturalistic for Nygren. It seemed to
play down the importance of God’s
transforming grace. He joined other
European neo-orthodox theologians of
his day such as Karl Barth and Rudolph
Bultmann in cutting off Christian love
from eros,'' which in effect was to cut
Christian love from nature and desire —
the very things scientists tend to study.
Beginning with Nygren’s strong view of
agape and the strong supernaturalism of
both Nygren and Barth, there was little
room in these mid-twentieth century
Protestant trends for a productive
dialogue between Christian ethics and
the new scientific advances in moral
psychology, evolutionary psychology,
and neuroscience.

At the same time, however,
breakthroughs in these very disciplines
have led to a new reassessment of the
Catholic caritas model of Christian love.
But before I review in more detail how
this model worked, especially in the
thought of the great medieval Roman
Catholic theologian Thomas Aquinas, let
me turn to review some of the moral
implications of insights into kin altruism
and inclusive fitness emerging today

Page |34

from evolutionary psychology and social
neuroscience.

Moral Implications of Kin Altruism
and Inclusive Fitness

As is well known, the idea of
inclusive fitness was first put forth in
1964 by William Hamilton. '”
Hamilton’s view of inclusive fitness
holds that living beings not only struggle
for their individual survival but for the
survival of offspring and kin who also
carry their genes. Their altruism is
likely to be proportional to the
percentage of their genes that others
carry. This insight was further
developed by the concept of parental
investment. Ronald Fisher and Robert
Trivers (1972) defined it as “any
investment by the parent in an individual
offspring that increases the offspring’s
chance of surviving...at the cost of the
parent’s ability to invest in other
offspring.” '? These insights were at the
core of the emerging field of
sociobiology and were first brought to
the wider public attention by E.O.
Wilson’s Sociobiology: The New
Synthesis (1975). *

But the moral implications of the
concept of inclusive fitness, parental
investment, and kin altruism have
received competing interpretations.
Richard Dawkins in his The Selfish Gene
(1976) turned these ideas into a defense
of philosophical ethical egoism and
argued that all altruistic acts are
disguised maneuvers to perpetuate our
own genes. '° But there are other
interpretations. Social neuroscientist
John Cacioppo interprets our motives
toward inclusive fitness and kin altruism
as the core of human intergenerational
care and the vital link between sociality
and spirituality. In cooperation with his
colleagues, his research on loneliness

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021280
