Other Important Disclosures

Prices are indicative and for information purposes only. Except as otherwise stated in the report, for the purpose of any recommendation in relation to: (i) an equity security, the price
referenced is the publicly traded price of the security as of close of business on the day prior to the date of the report or, if the report is published during in
indicative of the traded price as of the date and time of the report; or (ii) a debt security (including equity preferred and CDS), prices are indicative as of the

from various sources including Bank of America Merrill Lynch trading desks.

The date and time of completion of the production of any recommendation in this report shall be the date and time of dissemination o

traday trading, the price referenced is
date and time of the report and are

this report as recorded in the report timestamp.

Ww

INVESTMENT.
with any investment decision, or for anecessary explanation of its contents.

registration or have been qualified for sale.

The securities discussed in this report may be traded over-the-counter. Retail sales and/or distribution of this report may be made only ins

BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research policies relating to conflicts of interest are described at http://go.bofa.com/coi.
BofA Merrill Lynch includes Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (MLPF&S’) and its affiliates. Investors should contact their BofA Merrill Lynch representative or
Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management financial advisor if they have questions concerning this report. BofA Merrill Lynch” and Merrill Lynch” are each global brands for BofA

Merrill Lynch Global Research.
Information relating to Non-US affiliates of BofA Merrill Lynch and Distribution o

South Africa (Pty) Ltd, regulated by The Financial Service Board; MLI (UK): Merrill Lynch
PRA); Merrill Lynch (Australia): Merrill Lynch Equities (Australia) Limited, regulated by t

regulated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India; PT Merrill Lynch (Indonesia): P

Comisién Nacional del Mercado De Valores; Merrill Lynch (Brazil): Bank of America Merr

This research report: has been approved for publication and is distributed in the United
FCA and the PRA) by MLI (UK) and Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited,
retail clients (as defined in the rules of the FCA and the PRA} by Merrill Lynch Internatio
imited regulation by the FCA and PRA - details about the extent of our regulation by th

India}; and is issued and distributed in Singapore to insti

errill Lynch Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Company, regulated by the Capital Market Authority.

f Affiliate Research Reports:

LPF&S distributes, or may in the future distribute, research reports of the following non-US affiliates in the US (short name: legal name, regulator}: Merril

International, regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) an
he Australian Securities and Investments Commission; Merrill Lynch

Pacific) Limited, regulated by the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission (HKSFC); Merrill Lynch (Singapore): Merrill Lynch (Singapore) Pte Ltd, regu
Singapore (MAS); Merrill Lynch (Canada): Merrill Lynch Canada Inc, regulated by the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada; Merrill Lynch (Mexico): Merrill Lynch Mexico, SA de
CV, Casa de Bolsa, regulated by the Comisidn Nacional Bancaria y de Valores; Merrill Lynch (Argentina): Merrill Lynch Argentina SA, regulated by Comisién Nacional de Valores; Merrill Lynch
japan): Merrill Lynch Japan Securities Co., Ltd., regulated by the Financial Services Agency; Merrill Lynch (Seoul): Merrill Lynch International Incorporated (Seoul Branch) regulated by the
Financial Supervisory Service; Merrill Lynch (Taiwan): Merrill Lynch Securities (Taiwan) Ltd, regulated by the Securities and Futures Bureau; DSP Merrill Lynch (India): DSP Merrill Lynch Limited,
T Merrill Lynch Indonesia, regulated by Otoritas Jasa Keuangan (OJK); Merrill Lynch
srael Limited, regulated by Israel Securities Authority; Merrill Lynch (Russia): O00 Merrill Lynch Securities, Moscow, regulated by the Central Bank of the Russian Federation; Merri
DIFC}: Merrill Lynch International (DIFC Branch}, regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority (DFSA); Merrill Lynch (Spain): Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Espana, S.AS.V., regulated by

ill Lynch Banco Multiplo S.A. regulated by Comissdo de Valores Mobi

Kingdom (UK) to professional clients and eligible counterparties (as
which are authorized
nal Bank Limited, London Branch, which is authorized by the Central

rules. Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited, Frankfurt Branch (BAMLI Frankfurt) distributes this report in Germany and is regulated by BaFin.

This research report has been prepared and issued by MLPF&S and/or one or more of its non-US affiliates. MLPF&S is the distributor of this research report in the US and accepts fu

This report may refer to fixed income securities that may not be offered or sold in one or more states or jurisdictions. Readers of this report are advised that any discussion, recommendation or
other mention of such securities is not a solicitation or offer to transact in such securities. Investors should contact their BofA Merrill Lynch representative
Wealth Management financial advisor for information relating to fixed income securities
Rule 144A securities may be offered or sold only to persons in the US. who are Qualified Institutional Buyers within the meaning of Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.

ECURITIES DISCUSSED HEREIN MAY BE RATED BELOW INVESTMENT GRADE AND SHOULD THEREFORE ONLY BE CONSIDERED FOR INCLUSION IN ACCOUNTS QUALIFIED FOR SPECULATIVE

or Merrill Lynch Financial Global

Recipients who are not institutional investors or market professionals should seek the advice of their independent financial advisor before considering information in this report in connection
ates where these securities are exempt from

Officers of MLPF&S or one or more of its affiliates (other than research analysts} may have a financial interest in securities of the issuer(s) or in related investments.
This report, and the securities discussed herein, may not be eligible for distribution or sale in all countries or to certain categories of investors.

| Lynch (South Africa}: Merrill Lynch

d the Prudential Regulation Authority
(Hong Kong): Merrill Lynch (Asia
lated by the Monetary Authority of

Israel}: Merrill Lynch
Lynch

lidrios; Merrill Lynch KSA Company,

each is defined in the rules of the

by the PRA and regulated by the FCA and the PRA, and is distributed in the UK to

Bank of Ireland and subject to

e FCA and PRA are available from us on request; has been considered and distributed in Japan by Merrill
Lynch (Japan), a registered securities dealer under the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act in Japan; is issued and distributed in Hong Kong by Merrill Lynch (Hong Kong) which is regulated
by HKSFC (research reports containing any information in relation to, or advice on, futures contracts are not intended for issuance or distribution in Hong Kong and are not directed to, or
intended for issuance or distribution to, or use by, any person in Hong Kong): is issued and distributed in Taiwan by Merrill Lynch (Taiwan); is issued and distributed in India by DSP Merrill Lynch
utional investors and/or accredited investors (each as defined under the Financial Advisers Regulations) by Merrill Lynch International

Bank Limited (Merchant Bank} (MLIBLMB} and Merrill Lynch (Singapore) (Company Registration Nos F 06872E and 198602883D respectively). MLIBLMB and Merrill Lynch (Singapore) are
regulated by MAS. Bank of America N.A., Australian Branch (ARBN 064 874 531), AFS License 412901 (BANA Australia) and Merrill Lynch Equities (Australia) Limi
License 235132 (MLEA) distribute this report in Australia only to ‘Wholesale’ clients as defined by s./61G of the Corporations Act 2001. With the exception
any of its affiliates involved in preparing this research report is an Authorised Deposit- Taking Institution under the Banking Act 1959 nor regulated by the Australian Prudential Regulation
Authority. No approval is required for publication or distribution of this report in Brazil and its local distribution is by Merrill Lynch (Brazil) in accordance with applicable regulations. Merrill Lynch
DIFC is authorized and regulated by the DFSA. Research reports prepared and issued by Merrill Lynch (DIFC) are done so in accordance with the requirements of the DFSA conduct of business

ed (ABN 65 006 276 795), AFS
of BANA Australia, neither MLEA nor

responsibility for research reports of its non-US affiliates distributed to MLPF&S clients in the US. Any US person receiving this research report and wishing to effect any transaction in any

security discussed in the report should do so through MLPF&S and not such foreign affiliates. Hong Kong recipients of this research report should contact Merri

respect of any matters relating to dealing in securities (and not futures contracts) or provision of specific advice on securities (and not futures contracts). Si

report should contact Merrill Lynch International Bank Limited (Merchant Bank) and/or
research report.

General Investment Related Disclosures:
Taiwan Readers: Neither the information nor any opinion expressed herein constitutes

this report may be used or reproduced or quoted in any manner whatsoever in Taiwan by t
This research report provides general information only. Neither the information nor any op

| Lynch (Asia Pacific) Limited in
ngapore recipients of this research

Merrill Lynch (Singapore) Pte Ltd in respect of any matters arising from, or in connection with, this

an offer or a solicitation of an offer to transact in any securities or o

her financial instrument. No part of

he press or any other person without the express written consent of BofA Merrill Lynch.
inion expressed constitutes an offer or an invitation to make an offer, to buy or sell any securities or

other financial instrument or any derivative related to such securities or instruments (e.g., options, futures, warrants, and contracts for differences). This report is not intended to provide

personal investment advice and it does not take into account the specific investment o!
financial advice regarding the appropriateness of investing in financial instruments and

bjectives, financial situation and the particular needs of any specific

person. Investors should seek

implementing investment strategies discussed or recommended in this report and should understand

that statements regarding future prospects may not be realized. Any decision to purchase or subscribe for securities in any offering must be based solely on existing public information on such
security or the information in the prospectus or other offering document issued in connection with such offering, and not on this report.

Securities and other financial instruments discussed in this report, or recommended, o
deposits or other obligations of any insured depository institution (including, Bank of A

instruments may be difficult to value or sell and reliable information about the value or
income from such securities and other financial instruments, if any, may fluctuate and
lose their entire principal investment. Past performance is not necessarily a guide to fu

fered or sold by Merrill Lynch, are not insured by the Federal Deposi

al instrument or derivative is suitable for all investors. In some cas
risks related to the security or financial instrument may be difficult
hat price or value of such securities and instruments may rise or fal
ure performance. Levels and basis for taxation may change.

Insurance Corporation and are not

merica, N.A.}. Investments in general and, derivatives, in particular, involve numerous risks, including,
among others, market risk, counterparty default risk and liquidity risk. No security, financ

es, securities and other financial
‘0 obtain. Investors should note that
and, in some cases, investors may

Futures and options are not appropriate for all investors. Such financial instruments may expire worthless. Before investing in futures or options, clients must receive the appropriate risk

Bankof America
Merrill Lynch

Global Rates, FX & EM 2017 Year Ahead | 16 November 2016 55

HOUS

E_OVERSIGHT_014785
