property. Instead, the best option would be to continue renovating the
existing project which could take more than a year to complete, Given said.
By auctioning the project through a bankruptcy sale, it will be offered free
and clear from any liens. The bankruptcy also means that the new owner
will not have any responsibility for the issues stemming from EB-5
investors who had invested in the property.

The 82,648-square-foot project was first developed in 1961 and expanded in
1981. The property was set to be renovated by a group led by developer
Robert Matthews.

Matthews then raised $44 million from EB-5 investors, according to a
complaint by the Securities and Exchange Commission. EB-5 is a federal
program that allows foreign investors the chance to gain a green card if they
invest at least $500,000 into certain projects that create at least 10 jobs.
The SEC’s complaint said, however, that much of this money was
misallocated to pay for Matthews’ personal expenses. Some of the funds
allegedly went to pay for Mathews’ Connecticut home, his 151-foot mega
yacht, as well as to save his Palm Beach mansion from foreclosure,
according to the complaint.

In a separate lawsuit filed by a group of EB-5 investors, the development
group claimed that famous celebrities and politicians such as Bill Clinton,
Donald Trump, Celine Dion and Bill Koch — would serve on the Palm
House’s advisory board when, in fact, they did not.

Related Companies, led by Miami Dolphins owner Stephen Ross,
developed CityPlace West Palm Beach. The company is also proposing to
build a 25-story office project called One Flagler in downtown West Palm
Beach.

please note
The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of
JEE
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited
and may be unlawful. If you have received this

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_027065
