OQ},

QO
ai
dm

CHAPTERV_ Global Cannabis Regulation

New Zealand’s Misuse of Drugs Act generally makes the importation, cultivation, distribution, pos-
session and use of cannabis illegal. However, in September 2017, New Zealand’s Health Ministry lifted
certain restrictions so that doctors may now prescribe approved CBD products. (Previously, patients
in need of CBD products were required to apply directly to the Health Ministry, and approval was
granted on a case-by-case basis.) In December 2017, New Zealand introduced legislation for a medical
law that would amend the Misuse of Drugs Act to permit domestic production of medical cannabis
products and their use by people with terminal illness or chronic pain.

Europe

The European Union provides no coordinated legal framework for cannabis and, historically, Euro-
pean countries generally have prohibited its production and sale, but have also decriminalized or toler-
ated possession of small amounts.

In some European countries, personal use exceptions to criminal prosecution have been used to
carve out visible distribution models. In the Netherlands, for example, Amsterdam is famous for its
coffee-shop cannabis sales, even though the suppliers of cannabis to those coffee shops generally oper-
ate illegally. And in Spain, despite a federal prohibition on the sale of cannabis, court decisions and
laws permitting cultivation for personal consumption have served to justify the country’s hundreds of
private cannabis clubs.

To date, no European country has implemented a recreational law comparable to those in Uruguay
and some U.S. states and expected in Canada. However, starting with the Netherlands in 2003, a
number of European countries have enacted medical laws that facilitate patient access to cannabis or
concentrates, through importation or domestic production, for treating specified medical conditions.

Italy has allowed medical cannabis use since 2013 under a law that requires cannabis to be sold
through authorized pharmacies to patients with a valid prescription.

Croatia legalized the limited use of medical cannabis products in 2015. Under the law, doctors may
prescribe cannabis ointments, teas and other extracts to patients with a qualifying health condition,
including tumors, AIDS, multiple sclerosis and child epilepsy. Smoking or vaporizing cannabis flower
is not allowed under the law. In 2016, Croatia received a shipment of medical cannabis products from
a Canadian producer, marking the first time a North American company legally shipped cannabis
products containing THC and CBD into the European Union.

A German law that took effect in 2017 legalizes the use of medical cannabis products prescribed for
patients with serious illnesses, including multiple sclerosis, chronic pain, epilepsy and chemotherapy-
induced nausea and lack of appetite. The law provides a framework for the regulation of suppliers
under which the government has already issued import licenses to Canadian and Dutch firms and is
finalizing an approval process for the issuance of domestic production licenses.

A 2017 Polish law permits patients to obtain medical cannabis products, including flower, extracts
and tinctures, through pharmacies if they have both a physician’s medical authorization and permis-
sion from a regional pharmaceutical inspector. The qualifying conditions eligible for medical cannabis
include chronic pain, chemotherapy-induced nausea, multiple sclerosis, spasticity and treatment-
resistant epilepsy. Cannabis products must be imported into Poland because the law does not permit
cannabis cultivation within the country.

© 2017 Ackrell Capital, LLC | Member FINRA/SIPC 99

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024735
