and 2b to the better. ). and no explosions. You have email after email ,where i remind you that I am not
your bookkeeper or accountant (in brads corporate speak his finance dept ??!!) that it should be redone .I
have reviewed a multitude of the silly reports given to you and have pointed out the continued numerous
inaccuracies. your question  so what if the numbers are off , so what if the categories are off. whats the big
deal??. I suggest you de risk you finances and make the tough decisions necessary - pay the right amounts (
high) to get the work done properly or , you are , Im afraid, certain to get an unhappy answer.. tom will be
back from vacation. this week.

---------- Forwarded message ----------
Date: Thu, Apr 28, 2016 at 5:16 PM
Subject: Valuation Discount

To: jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com>

I am attaching a draft response from Empire Valuation as to why it arrived at a valuation discount on the low
end. Let’s discuss the response and next steps. Thanks. Alan

Peas
EPI Er

Subject:
To: Melanie Spinel as

Leon,

Yesterday , | again spent hours upon hours of my time with your office. ,( speak to brad to get flavor) and
you and i will discuss the results in gory gruesome detail on Friday. it mirrored many other weeks spent doing
the things that I don;t have the time to do.

In order to keep things in perspective, maybe reviewing an analogy I have used before with you, might be
helpful. You and your family are a 6 billion dollar corp. with an income between 250 -500 million dollars per
year. It contains a few operating biz's , a large wide array of existing investments, in various categories ,

a desire to enter into others. A panoply of loans, notes. purchases, wide range of all types of taxes. _, planes.
boats homes. . trusts ,grats. a crazy number of bank accts. ( with no oversight ) . law firms, acct firms, 800
page tax returns, foreign firms. art consultants. construction consultants bill payers,
home mgmt.,vast multitude of Ilc's , including foreign, and with all that you only have a combined overhead
of less that 3. million dollars.

I have previously sent you the very same note that i have enclosed again below ,this time with highlights
. I wrote itto you over a year ago. As my acute disability ( selective memory) seems to have been raised
as one of your concerns , as arule I try to memorialize things in writing in an attempt to lay out issues that I
fear may later turn out to be a problem. ie what i would and wouldn't do , - my responsibilities. ete and those
things that are not. below you will find details of things that I thought needed to be done, so that you
wouldn't find yourself in the very place where you currently find yourself. however ,you chose to defer
many of my suggestions- see below -,until only weeks ago. ! you chose to defer the jpm acct. the art
partnership on and on - into this year. and though the 60- 50 40 timber emails all carried with it a clear warning
that you needed to do something re personnel if it were to stabilize,- you chose to wait.

ONE YEAR AGO
Feb 17 2014 i wrote:

With regard the more pressing issue I am uncertain of just how to proceed. I am torn, as my very strong
inclination is not to be involved at all. It is extremely time consuming, delicate, fraught with many pitfall many
that will make you very upset and a major pain in the ass. I wrote you months ago that the quality of the people
involved need to be upgraded. ( lucky for me these last issues arose way before the beginning of my
involvement ) Iam also aware however of my overarching friendship obligations of ok, -given all the
complexities who else can do it? problem.

Your family office needs a daddy. children with good intentions are running around , sniping , nitpicking with

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023343
