operations in Japan, where the new terminal at Kawasaki could theoretically obviate
the older and clumsier one in Tokyo Harbor. I realized that plant-closing might be

unthinkable in Japan, but thought that something good might come of the idea.

Sometime a little later came my lawsuit against my father. It isn’t my happiest
memory. There had been a stock dividend years before, when I was still in school.
We had treated it a certain way on the books. | read the law as saying it should have
been treated another way. The law was probably on my side, and common sense on
my father’s. Judge Peery wisely found a way to make common sense win in the end.
Meanwhile I had accused my father of nothing worse than oversight. My visits to
Sutton Place, now with Ann and the boys, went the same as before. The lawsuit
seldom came up and was discussed in easy terms when it did. | suggested to him, for
example, that he might want to settle with my stepmother Teddy in case there could
be claims by the estate of my late half-brother Timmy. He did. Somehow we got
through the lawsuit without bad blood. One would not have guessed so much was at
stake. The stock dividend had been a huge one. What | learned from my father, then
most of all, was perspective. He believed in an even keel. Zeno the Stoic, not the

Eleatic, would have met his match.

The lawsuit lasted from 1966 through 1971. In hindsight, thank gosh he won. If I
had, tax consequences would have been ugly all around. Again I had learned a lesson,

and again there were no hard feelings either way.

I continued to do consulting jobs for him throughout the lawsuit and after. I charged
expenses, but no fee. And I didn’t pad expenses. If ] had, you can believe he would
have seen it. ] stayed in a single room in the best hotels, ate three squares a day, and
paid for anything else myself. | was trying to make the point that I didn’t want to be
paid. Neither had my father at Spartan during the war. The idea was for me to be of
use. I was paid like everyone else when working for my father full-time, but never

on consulting jobs.

Those now came once or twice a year, and lasted for a week or two each. Composing

was still on the back burner. I was keen on physics, economics, human origins and

Chapter 1: Recollections 1/06/16 8

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010924
