Morality Games 293

Fig. 2. The Hawk—Dove
game. The Nash equilibria of

the game are circled

O
©

does not necessarily affect the payoffs, but does distinguish between the players,
such as who arrived at the territory first or who built the object. If one conditions on
the event (say, plays Hawk when she arrives first), then it is optimal for the other to
condition on the event (to play Dove when the other arrives first).

As our reader is likely aware, this was the logic provided by Maynard Smith to
explain animal territoriality—why animals behave aggressively to defend territory
that they have arrived at first, even if incumbency does not provide a defensive
advantage and even when facing a more formidable intruder. Over the years, evi-
dence has amassed to support Maynard Smith’s explanation, such as experimental
manipulation of which animal arrives first (Davies, 1978; Sigg & Falett, 1985).

Like other animals, we condition how aggressively we defend a resource on
whether we arrive first. Because our behaviors are motivated by beliefs, we are also
more likely to believe that the resource is “‘ours” when we arrive first. Studies have
shown these effects with children’s judgments of ownership, in ethnographies of
prelegal societies, and in computer games. In one such illustration, DeScioli and
Wilson (2011) had research subjects play a computer game in which they contested
a berry patch. Subjects who ended up keeping control of the patch usually arrived
first, and this determined the outcome more often than differences in fighting ability
in the game.

This sense of ownership is codified in our legal systems, as illustrated by the quip
“possession is 9/10ths of the law,’ and in a study involving famous legal property
cases conducted by Descioli and Karpoff (2014). In a survey, these researchers
asked participants to identify the rightful owner of a lost item, after reading vignettes
based on famous property rights legal cases. Participants consistently identified the
possessor of the found item as its rightful owner (as the judges had at the time of the
case). This sense of ownership is also codified in our philosophical tradition, e.g., in
Locke (1988), who found property rights in initial possession. Note that, as has also
been found in animals, possession extends to objects on one’s land: In DeScioli and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015505
