Morality Games 301

This explanation for the omission—commission distinction leads to two novel
predictions: First, for judgments and emotions not evolved to motivate witnesses to
punishment but to, say, motivate witnesses to avoid dangerous partners (such as the
emotion of fear; in contrast to anger or moral disgust), the omission-commission
distinction is expected to be weaker or disappear altogether. Second, for transgres-
sions of omission that, without any private information, can be presumed intentional
(such as a mother who allows her child to go hungry or a person who does not give
to a charity after being explicitly asked), we would not expect much of an omis-
sion—commission distinction in moral condemnation.

As with the all models discussed in this chapter, the game theoretic explanation
for the omission—commission distinction does not rest on rational, conscious, stra-
tegic calculation. In fact, in this particular case, all reasonable evolutionary dynamic
models lead away from punishing omissions. The fact that the above results do not
rest on rational, strategic thinking is particularly important in this setting since there
is evidence that the distinction between omissions and commissions is not deter-
mined deliberately but rather intuitively (Cushman, Young, & Hauser, 2006) and
appears to be evolved (DeScioli et al., 2011) and that consciously considering what
others believe is an onerous process (Camerer, 2003; Epley, Keysar, Van Boven, &
Gilovich, 2004; Hedden & Zhang, 2002).

This same model can explain several other puzzling aspects of our morality. The
first is the means—by-product distinction. This distinction has been documented in
studies that ask respondents to judge the following variants of the classic “trolley”
problem. In the standard trolley “switch” case (Foot, 1967), a runaway trolley is
hurtling toward a group of five people. To prevent their deaths, the trolley must be
switched onto a side track where it will kill an innocent bystander. In studies using
this case, the vast majority of subjects choose the utilitarian option, judging it per-
missible to cause the death of one to save five (e.g., Cushman et al., 2006; Mikhail,
2007). In the “footbridge” variant (Thomson, 1976), the trolley is hurtling toward
the group of five people, but the switch to divert it is inoperable. The only way to
save the five is to push a man who is wearing a heavy backpack off a bridge onto the
track, thereby slowing the trolley enough so the five can escape, but killing the man.
In contrast to the standard switch version, where causing the death of one person is
but a by-product of the action necessary to save five, most subjects in the footbridge
case find it morally impermissible to force the man with the backpack onto the
tracks (Cushman et al., 2006; DeScioli, Gilbert, & Kurzban, 2012)—that is, when
the man is used as a means to saving the five—even though the consequences are the
same, and the decision to act was made knowingly and deliberately in both cases.

Such effects are found in less contrived situations, as well. Consider the real-life
distinction between terrorism, in which civilian casualties are used a means to a
political goal, and anticipated collateral damage, which is a by-product of war, even
when the same number of civilians are knowingly killed and the same political ends
are desired (say increased bargaining power in a subsequent negotiation).

The explanation again uses “higher-order beliefs” and is based on the key insight
in DeScioli et al. (2011) and formalized in Dalkiran et al. (2012) and Hoffman et al.
(2015): When the harm is done as a by-product, the harm is not usually anticipated.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015513
