number could be expressed as the sum of at most four squared numbers. It was his
strongly held opinion that metaphysical speculation was both foreign and inimical to
the conduct of mathematics and science. His work in the ca/culus of variations led
to the development of a system of algebraic manipulations seeking the value of
constants, Lagrange multipliers, in place of solving Euler’s differential equations. It
makes it possible to immediately write down a computable expression for the
maximum of a mathematical equation. The technique is now routinely taught to high
school students and with no mention of the role of belief in the perfection of God in

its discovery.

| was a fortunate freshman medical student. After a visit to his office and a
stimulating discussion about some of the correspondences between the ideas of
psychoanalysis and neurobiology, Robert Heath, Tulane Medical School’s Gary
Cooper-like charismatic chairman of the psychiatry department, offered me a place
in his animal and human neurophysiological laboratory. Between classes, evenings
and weekends, | used a Horsely-Clarke apparatus, one of the world’s first
stereotaxic devices. It allowed the precise placement of electrodes into functionally
specific regions of a cat’s brain. The electrodes were cemented to the skull in place
and their wires connected to a device by which the frequency, amplitude and wave
shape of the electrical stimulation could be oscilloscopically monitored and
electronically controlled as the conscious cat walked around the room. | spent hours
observing and recording changes in spontaneous behavior that followed activation
of various nuclei in the cat’s brain with small electrical currents.

Deep in the part of brain that resides in the upper neck, called the lower brain
stem, the region thought to regulate functions such as breathing, heart rate, blood
pressure, gastrointestinal motility and global states of consciousness such as
wakefulness and sleep, | found stimulus sites that, after 15 seconds of electrical
activation, led to several minutes of hissing and objectless rage. One cat attacked

an empty chair. These regions when activated also inhibited spinal reflexes such as

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013515
