Eni EIPAF ENI IM Hamish Clegg
Galp Energia GLPEF GALP PL Hamish Clegg
Royal Dutch Shell B RDSB RDS/B US Christopher Kuplent
Royal Dutch Shell B RYDBF RDSB LN Christopher Kuplent
Royal Dutch Shell PLC Shs A RDSA RDS/A US Christopher Kuplent
Royal Dutch Shell PLC Shs A RYDAF RDSA LN Christopher Kuplent
Statoil STOHF STL NO Hamish Clegg
Statoil STO STO US Hamish Clegg
BP plc BP BP US Christopher Kuplent
BP plc BPAQF BP/ LN Christopher Kuplent
Repsol REPYY REPYY US Hamish Clegg
Repsol REPYF REP SM Hamish Clegg
Total TTFNF FP FP Christopher Kuplent
Total TOT TOT US Christopher Kuplent
Neste NTOIF NESTE FH Georgia Harris
OMV OMVJF OMV AV Hamish Clegg
OMV OMVKY OMVKY US Hamish Clegg
Disclosures
Important Disclosures
DTEGF Price Chart
1-Jun N
Ristimaki
PO:EUR12
21
18
15
12
9
6
3
0
DTEGF
4-Nov B
Boulan
PO:EUR13
9-Dec
PO:EUR15
29-Jan
PO:EUR18
7-Dec
PO:EUR19
23-Feb
PO:EUR18
5-May
PO:EUR19
13-Dec
PO:EUR20
12-Jan N
PO:EUR19
1-Jan-15 1-Jan-16 1-Jan-17
Review Restricted No Coverage
6-Mar
PO:EUR18
B: Buy, N: Neutral, U: Underperform, PO: Price Objective, NA: No longer valid, NR: No Rating
The Investment Opinion System is contained at the end of the report under the heading Fundamental Equity Opinion Key. Dark grey shading indicates the security is restricted with the opinion suspended. Medium grey
shading indicates the security is under review with the opinion withdrawn. Light grey shading indicates the security is not covered. Chart is current as of May 31, 2017 or such later date as indicated.
32 Global Equity Volatility Insights | 06 June 2017
DTEGY Price Chart
1-Jun N
Ristimaki
PO:US$15
21
18
15
12
9
6
3
0
DTEGY
4-Nov B
Boulan
PO:US$16
9-Dec
PO:US$18
9-Jan
PO:US$17
2-Mar
PO:US$20
29-Jan
PO:US$21
7-Dec
PO:US$21
23-Feb
PO:US$20
5-May
PO:US$21
31-Aug
PO:US$22
13-Dec
PO:US$21
12-Jan N
PO:US$20
1-Jan-15 1-Jan-16 1-Jan-17
Review Restricted No Coverage
B: Buy, N: Neutral, U: Underperform, PO: Price Objective, NA: No longer valid, NR: No Rating
The Investment Opinion System is contained at the end of the report under the heading Fundamental Equity Opinion Key. Dark grey shading indicates the security is restricted with the opinion suspended. Medium grey
shading indicates the security is under review with the opinion withdrawn. Light grey shading indicates the security is not covered. Chart is current as of May 31, 2017 or such later date as indicated.
ESOCF Price Chart
4.90
4.20
3.50
2.80
2.10
1.40
0.70
0.00
ESOCF
13-Jan B
Wyburd
PO:EUR4.35
27-Feb
PO:EUR4.70
23-Mar
PO:EUR5.00
3-Sep
PO:EUR4.95
25-Jan
PO:EUR4.75
1-Jan-15 1-Jan-16 1-Jan-17
Review Restricted No Coverage
B: Buy, N: Neutral, U: Underperform, PO: Price Objective, NA: No longer valid, NR: No Rating
The Investment Opinion System is contained at the end of the report under the heading Fundamental Equity Opinion Key. Dark grey shading indicates the security is restricted with the opinion suspended. Medium grey
shading indicates the security is under review with the opinion withdrawn. Light grey shading indicates the security is not covered. Chart is current as of May 31, 2017 or such later date as indicated.
IBDSF Price Chart
26-Nov B
Franco
PO:EUR6.60
15-Dec
PO:EUR7.40
19-Feb
PO:EUR7.10
15-Dec
PO:EUR6.80
8.00
6.00
15-Mar
Bisztyga
4.00
2.00
0.00
IBDSF
1-Jan-15 1-Jan-16 1-Jan-17
Review Restricted No Coverage
B: Buy, N: Neutral, U: Underperform, PO: Price Objective, NA: No longer valid, NR: No Rating
The Investment Opinion System is contained at the end of the report under the heading Fundamental Equity Opinion Key. Dark grey shading indicates the security is restricted with the opinion suspended. Medium grey
shading indicates the security is under review with the opinion withdrawn. Light grey shading indicates the security is not covered. Chart is current as of May 31, 2017 or such later date as indicated.
Global Equity Volatility Insights | 06 June 2017 33
RYDAF Price Chart
1-Jun N
Kuplent
PO:2420p
21-Jul
PO:2460p
28
24
20
16
12
8
4
0
RYDAF
9-Sep
PO:2550p
31-Oct
PO:2550p
25-Nov
PO:2520p
5-Dec
PO:2400p
15-Oct 11-Dec
PO:2500pPO:2315p
16-Jan
PO:2180p
16-Feb B
PO:2135p
5-May
PO:2000p
27-May
PO:1950p
8-Jun
PO:2050p
15-Jul
PO:2350p
29-Jul
PO:2230p
19-Oct
PO:2380p
9-Dec
PO:2400p
24-Jan
PO:2420p
1-Jan-15 1-Jan-16 1-Jan-17
Review Restricted No Coverage
3-Feb
PO:2490p
10-Mar
PO:2500p
11-May
PO:2400p
5-May
PO:2530p
B: Buy, N: Neutral, U: Underperform, PO: Price Objective, NA: No longer valid, NR: No Rating
The Investment Opinion System is contained at the end of the report under the heading Fundamental Equity Opinion Key. Dark grey shading indicates the security is restricted with the opinion suspended. Medium grey
shading indicates the security is under review with the opinion withdrawn. Light grey shading indicates the security is not covered. Chart is current as of May 31, 2017 or such later date as indicated.
Equity Investment Rating Distribution: Energy Group (as of 31 Mar 2017)
Coverage Universe Count Percent Inv. Banking Relationships* Count Percent
Buy 109 49.77% Buy 84 77.06%
Hold 52 23.74% Hold 43 82.69%
Sell 58 26.48% Sell 34 58.62%
Equity Investment Rating Distribution: Telecommunications Group (as of 31 Mar 2017)
Coverage Universe Count Percent Inv. Banking Relationships* Count Percent
Buy 78 52.00% Buy 53 67.95%
Hold 30 20.00% Hold 20 66.67%
Sell 42 28.00% Sell 14 33.33%
Equity Investment Rating Distribution: Utilities Group (as of 31 Mar 2017)
Coverage Universe Count Percent Inv. Banking Relationships* Count Percent
Buy 60 48.39% Buy 39 65.00%
Hold 35 28.23% Hold 26 74.29%
Sell 29 23.39% Sell 17 58.62%
Equity Investment Rating Distribution: Global Group (as of 31 Mar 2017)
Coverage Universe Count Percent Inv. Banking Relationships* Count Percent
Buy 1578 51.33% Buy 979 62.04%
Hold 690 22.45% Hold 434 62.90%
Sell 806 26.22% Sell 381 47.27%
* Issuers that were investment banking clients of BofA Merrill Lynch or one of its affiliates within the past 12 months. For purposes of this Investment Rating Distribution, the coverage universe includes only stocks. A
stock rated Neutral is included as a Hold, and a stock rated Underperform is included as a Sell.
FUNDAMENTAL EQUITY OPINION KEY: Opinions include a Volatility Risk Rating, an Investment Rating and an Income Rating. VOLATILITY RISK RATINGS, indicators of potential
price fluctuation, are: A - Low, B - Medium and C - High. INVESTMENT RATINGS reflect the analyst’s assessment of a stock’s: (i) absolute total return potential and (ii)
attractiveness for investment relative to other stocks within its Coverage Cluster (defined below). There are three investment ratings: 1 - Buy stocks are expected to have a total
return of at least 10% and are the most attractive stocks in the coverage cluster; 2 - Neutral stocks are expected to remain flat or increase in value and are less attractive than
Buy rated stocks and 3 - Underperform stocks are the least attractive stocks in a coverage cluster. Analysts assign investment ratings considering, among other things, the 0-12
month total return expectation for a stock and the firm’s guidelines for ratings dispersions (shown in the table below). The current price objective for a stock should be
referenced to better understand the total return expectation at any given time. The price objective reflects the analyst’s view of the potential price appreciation (depreciation).
Investment rating Total return expectation (within 12-month period of date of initial rating) Ratings dispersion guidelines for coverage cluster*
Buy ≥ 10% ≤ 70%
Neutral ≥ 0% ≤ 30%
Underperform N/A ≥ 20%
* Ratings dispersions may vary from time to time where BofA Merrill Lynch Research believes it better reflects the investment prospects of stocks in a Coverage Cluster.
INCOME RATINGS, indicators of potential cash dividends, are: 7 - same/higher (dividend considered to be secure), 8 - same/lower (dividend not considered to be secure) and 9 - pays
no cash dividend. Coverage Cluster is comprised of stocks covered by a single analyst or two or more analysts sharing a common industry, sector, region or other classification(s). A stock’s
coverage cluster is included in the most recent BofA Merrill Lynch report referencing the stock.
Price charts for the securities referenced in this research report are available at http://pricecharts.baml.com, or call 1-800-MERRILL to have them mailed.
One or more analysts responsible for covering the securities in this report owns options on the financial instrument
The issuer is or was, within the last 12 months, an investment banking client of MLPF&S and/or one or more of its affiliates: Deutsche Telekom, Enel SpA, Iberdrola, Royal Dtch Shell.
MLPF&S or an affiliate has received compensation from the issuer for non-investment banking services or products within the past 12 months: Deutsche Telekom, Enel SpA, Iberdrola, Royal
Dtch Shell.
The issuer is or was, within the last 12 months, a non-securities business client of MLPF&S and/or one or more of its affiliates: Deutsche Telekom, Enel SpA, Iberdrola, Royal Dtch Shell.
In the US, retail sales and/or distribution of this report may be made only in states where these securities are exempt from registration or have been qualified for sale: Deutsche Telekom, Enel
SpA, Iberdrola.
MLPF&S or an affiliate has received compensation for investment banking services from this issuer within the past 12 months: Deutsche Telekom, Enel SpA, Iberdrola.
34 Global Equity Volatility Insights | 06 June 2017
MLPF&S or an affiliate expects to receive or intends to seek compensation for investment banking services from this issuer or an affiliate of the issuer within the next three months: Deutsche
Telekom, Enel SpA, Iberdrola, Royal Dtch Shell.
MLPF&S together with its affiliates beneficially owns one percent or more of the common stock of this issuer. If this report was issued on or after the 9th day of the month, it reflects the
ownership position on the last day of the previous month. Reports issued before the 9th day of a month reflect the ownership position at the end of the second month preceding the date of
the report: Royal Dtch Shell.
MLPF&S or one of its affiliates is willing to sell to, or buy from, clients the common equity of the issuer on a principal basis: Deutsche Telekom.
The issuer is or was, within the last 12 months, a securities business client (non-investment banking) of MLPF&S and/or one or more of its affiliates: Deutsche Telekom, Enel SpA, Iberdrola,
Royal Dtch Shell.
BofA Merrill Lynch Research Personnel (including the analyst(s) responsible for this report) receive compensation based upon, among other factors, the overall profitability of Bank of America
Corporation, including profits derived from investment banking. The analyst(s) responsible for this report may also receive compensation based upon, among other factors, the overall
profitability of the Bank’s sales and trading businesses relating to the class of securities or financial instruments for which such analyst is responsible.
Other Important Disclosures
Prices are indicative and for information purposes only. Except as otherwise stated in the report, for the purpose of any recommendation in relation to: (i) an equity security, the price
referenced is the publicly traded price of the security as of close of business on the day prior to the date of the report or, if the report is published during intraday trading, the price referenced is
indicative of the traded price as of the date and time of the report; or (ii) a debt security (including equity preferred and CDS), prices are indicative as of the date and time of the report and are
from various sources including Bank of America Merrill Lynch trading desks.
The date and time of completion of the production of any recommendation in this report shall be the date and time of dissemination of this report as recorded in the report timestamp.
Officers of MLPF&S or one or more of its affiliates (other than research analysts) may have a financial interest in securities of the issuer(s) or in related investments.
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research policies relating to conflicts of interest are described at http://go.bofa.com/coi.
BofA Merrill Lynch includes Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (MLPF&S) and its affiliates. Investors should contact their BofA Merrill Lynch representative or
Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management financial advisor if they have questions concerning this report. BofA Merrill Lynch and Merrill Lynch are each global brands for BofA
Merrill Lynch Global Research.
Information relating to Non-US affiliates of BofA Merrill Lynch and Distribution of Affiliate Research Reports:
MLPF&S distributes, or may in the future distribute, research reports of the following non-US affiliates in the US (short name: legal name, regulator): Merrill Lynch (South Africa): Merrill Lynch
South Africa (Pty) Ltd., regulated by The Financial Service Board; MLI (UK): Merrill Lynch International, regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the Prudential Regulation Authority
(PRA); Merrill Lynch (Australia): Merrill Lynch Equities (Australia) Limited, regulated by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission; Merrill Lynch (Hong Kong): Merrill Lynch (Asia
Pacific) Limited, regulated by the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission (HKSFC); Merrill Lynch (Singapore): Merrill Lynch (Singapore) Pte Ltd, regulated by the Monetary Authority of
Singapore (MAS); Merrill Lynch (Canada): Merrill Lynch Canada Inc, regulated by the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada; Merrill Lynch (Mexico): Merrill Lynch Mexico, SA de
CV, Casa de Bolsa, regulated by the Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores; Merrill Lynch (Argentina): Merrill Lynch Argentina SA, regulated by Comisión Nacional de Valores; Merrill Lynch
(Japan): Merrill Lynch Japan Securities Co., Ltd., regulated by the Financial Services Agency; Merrill Lynch (Seoul): Merrill Lynch International Incorporated (Seoul Branch) regulated by the
Financial Supervisory Service; Merrill Lynch (Taiwan): Merrill Lynch Securities (Taiwan) Ltd., regulated by the Securities and Futures Bureau; DSP Merrill Lynch (India): DSP Merrill Lynch Limited,
regulated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India; Merrill Lynch (Indonesia): PT Merrill Lynch Sekuritas Indonesia, regulated by Otoritas Jasa Keuangan (OJK); Merrill Lynch (Israel): Merrill
Lynch Israel Limited, regulated by Israel Securities Authority; Merrill Lynch (Russia): OOO Merrill Lynch Securities, Moscow, regulated by the Central Bank of the Russian Federation; Merrill Lynch
(DIFC): Merrill Lynch International (DIFC Branch), regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority (DFSA); Merrill Lynch (Spain): Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Espana, S.A.S.V., regulated by
Comisión Nacional del Mercado De Valores; Merrill Lynch (Brazil): Bank of America Merrill Lynch Banco Multiplo S.A., regulated by Comissão de Valores Mobiliários; Merrill Lynch KSA Company,
Merrill Lynch Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Company, regulated by the Capital Market Authority.
This research report: has been approved for publication and is distributed in the United Kingdom (UK) to professional clients and eligible counterparties (as each is defined in the rules of the
FCA and the PRA) by MLI (UK) and Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited, which are authorized by the PRA and regulated by the FCA and the PRA, and is distributed in the UK to
retail clients (as defined in the rules of the FCA and the PRA) by Merrill Lynch International Bank Limited, London Branch, which is authorized by the Central Bank of Ireland and subject to
limited regulation by the FCA and PRA - details about the extent of our regulation by the FCA and PRA are available from us on request; has been considered and distributed in Japan by Merrill
Lynch (Japan), a registered securities dealer under the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act in Japan; is issued and distributed in Hong Kong by Merrill Lynch (Hong Kong) which is regulated
by HKSFC is issued and distributed in Taiwan by Merrill Lynch (Taiwan); is issued and distributed in India by DSP Merrill Lynch (India); and is issued and distributed in Singapore to institutional
investors and/or accredited investors (each as defined under the Financial Advisers Regulations) by Merrill Lynch International Bank Limited (Merchant Bank) (MLIBLMB) and Merrill Lynch
(Singapore) (Company Registration Nos F 06872E and 198602883D respectively). MLIBLMB and Merrill Lynch (Singapore) are regulated by MAS. Bank of America N.A., Australian Branch (ARBN
064 874 531), AFS License 412901 (BANA Australia) and Merrill Lynch Equities (Australia) Limited (ABN 65 006 276 795), AFS License 235132 (MLEA) distribute this report in Australia only to
'Wholesale' clients as defined by s.761G of the Corporations Act 2001. With the exception of BANA Australia, neither MLEA nor any of its affiliates involved in preparing this research report is an
Authorised Deposit-Taking Institution under the Banking Act 1959 nor regulated by the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority. No approval is required for publication or distribution of this
report in Brazil and its local distribution is by Merrill Lynch (Brazil) in accordance with applicable regulations. Merrill Lynch (DIFC) is authorized and regulated by the DFSA. Research reports
prepared and issued by Merrill Lynch (DIFC) are done so in accordance with the requirements of the DFSA conduct of business rules. Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited,
Frankfurt Branch (BAMLI Frankfurt) distributes this report in Germany and is regulated by BaFin.
This research report has been prepared and issued by MLPF&S and/or one or more of its non-US affiliates. MLPF&S is the distributor of this research report in the US and accepts full
responsibility for research reports of its non-US affiliates distributed to MLPF&S clients in the US. Any US person receiving this research report and wishing to effect any transaction in any
security discussed in the report should do so through MLPF&S and not such foreign affiliates. Hong Kong recipients of this research report should contact Merrill Lynch (Asia Pacific) Limited in
respect of any matters relating to dealing in securities or provision of specific advice on securities or any other matters arising from, or in connection with, this report. Singapore recipients of
this research report should contact Merrill Lynch International Bank Limited (Merchant Bank) and/or Merrill Lynch (Singapore) Pte Ltd in respect of any matters arising from, or in connection
with, this research report.
General Investment Related Disclosures:
Taiwan Readers: Neither the information nor any opinion expressed herein constitutes an offer or a solicitation of an offer to transact in any securities or other financial instrument. No part of
this report may be used or reproduced or quoted in any manner whatsoever in Taiwan by the press or any other person without the express written consent of BofA Merrill Lynch.
This research report provides general information only, and has been prepared for, and is intended for general distribution to, BofA Merrill Lynch clients. Neither the information nor any opinion
expressed constitutes an offer or an invitation to make an offer, to buy or sell any securities or other financial instrument or any derivative related to such securities or instruments (e.g.,
options, futures, warrants, and contracts for differences). This report is not intended to provide personal investment advice and it does not take into account the specific investment objectives,
financial situation and the particular needs of, and is not directed to, any specific person(s). This report and its content do not constitute, and should not be considered to constitute, investment
advice for purposes of ERISA, the US tax code, the Investment Advisers Act or otherwise. Investors should seek financial advice regarding the appropriateness of investing in financial
instruments and implementing investment strategies discussed or recommended in this report and should understand that statements regarding future prospects may not be realized. Any
decision to purchase or subscribe for securities in any offering must be based solely on existing public information on such security or the information in the prospectus or other offering
document issued in connection with such offering, and not on this report.
Securities and other financial instruments discussed in this report, or recommended, offered or sold by Merrill Lynch, are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and are not
deposits or other obligations of any insured depository institution (including, Bank of America, N.A.). Investments in general and, derivatives, in particular, involve numerous risks, including,
among others, market risk, counterparty default risk and liquidity risk. No security, financial instrument or derivative is suitable for all investors. In some cases, securities and other financial
instruments may be difficult to value or sell and reliable information about the value or risks related to the security or financial instrument may be difficult to obtain. Investors should note that
income from such securities and other financial instruments, if any, may fluctuate and that price or value of such securities and instruments may rise or fall and, in some cases, investors may
Global Equity Volatility Insights | 06 June 2017 35
lose their entire principal investment. Past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance. Levels and basis for taxation may change.
This report may contain a short-term trading idea or recommendation, which highlights a specific near-term catalyst or event impacting the issuer or the market that is anticipated to have a
short-term price impact on the equity securities of the issuer. Short-term trading ideas and recommendations are different from and do not affect a stock's fundamental equity rating, which
reflects both a longer term total return expectation and attractiveness for investment relative to other stocks within its Coverage Cluster. Short-term trading ideas and recommendations may
be more or less positive than a stock's fundamental equity rating.
Futures and options are not appropriate for all investors. Such financial instruments may expire worthless. Before investing in futures or options, clients must receive the appropriate risk
disclosure documents. Investment strategies explained in this report may not be appropriate at all times. Costs of such strategies do not include commission or margin expenses.
BofA Merrill Lynch is aware that the implementation of the ideas expressed in this report may depend upon an investor's ability to short securities or other financial instruments and that such
action may be limited by regulations prohibiting or restricting shortselling in many jurisdictions. Investors are urged to seek advice regarding the applicability of such regulations prior to
executing any short idea contained in this report.
Foreign currency rates of exchange may adversely affect the value, price or income of any security or financial instrument mentioned in this report. Investors in such securities and instruments,
including ADRs, effectively assume currency risk.
UK Readers: The protections provided by the U.K. regulatory regime, including the Financial Services Scheme, do not apply in general to business coordinated by BofA Merrill Lynch entities
located outside of the United Kingdom. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research policies relating to conflicts of interest are described at http://go.bofa.com/coi.
MLPF&S or one of its affiliates is a regular issuer of traded financial instruments linked to securities that may have been recommended in this report. MLPF&S or one of its affiliates may, at any
time, hold a trading position (long or short) in the securities and financial instruments discussed in this report.
BofA Merrill Lynch, through business units other than BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, may have issued and may in the future issue trading ideas or recommendations that are inconsistent
with, and reach different conclusions from, the information presented in this report. Such ideas or recommendations reflect the different time frames, assumptions, views and analytical
methods of the persons who prepared them, and BofA Merrill Lynch is under no obligation to ensure that such other trading ideas or recommendations are brought to the attention of any
recipient of this report.
In the event that the recipient received this report pursuant to a contract between the recipient and MLPF&S for the provision of research services for a separate fee, and in connection
therewith MLPF&S may be deemed to be acting as an investment adviser, such status relates, if at all, solely to the person with whom MLPF&S has contracted directly and does not extend
beyond the delivery of this report (unless otherwise agreed specifically in writing by MLPF&S). MLPF&S is and continues to act solely as a broker-dealer in connection with the execution of any
transactions, including transactions in any securities mentioned in this report.
Copyright and General Information regarding Research Reports:
Copyright 2017 Bank of America Corporation. All rights reserved. iQmethod, iQmethod 2.0, iQprofile, iQtoolkit, iQworks are service marks of Bank of America Corporation. iQanalytics®,
iQcustom®, iQdatabase® are registered service marks of Bank of America Corporation. This research report is prepared for the use of BofA Merrill Lynch clients and may not be redistributed,
retransmitted or disclosed, in whole or in part, or in any form or manner, without the express written consent of BofA Merrill Lynch. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research reports are distributed
simultaneously to internal and client websites and other portals by BofA Merrill Lynch and are not publicly-available materials. Any unauthorized use or disclosure is prohibited. Receipt and
review of this research report constitutes your agreement not to redistribute, retransmit, or disclose to others the contents, opinions, conclusion, or information contained in this report
(including any investment recommendations, estimates or price targets) without first obtaining expressed permission from an authorized officer of BofA Merrill Lynch.
Materials prepared by BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research personnel are based on public information. Facts and views presented in this material have not been reviewed by, and may not reflect
information known to, professionals in other business areas of BofA Merrill Lynch, including investment banking personnel. BofA Merrill Lynch has established information barriers between
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research and certain business groups. As a result, BofA Merrill Lynch does not disclose certain client relationships with, or compensation received from, such issuers in
research reports. To the extent this report discusses any legal proceeding or issues, it has not been prepared as nor is it intended to express any legal conclusion, opinion or advice. Investors
should consult their own legal advisers as to issues of law relating to the subject matter of this report. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research personnel’s knowledge of legal proceedings in which
any BofA Merrill Lynch entity and/or its directors, officers and employees may be plaintiffs, defendants, co-defendants or co-plaintiffs with or involving issuers mentioned in this report is based
on public information. Facts and views presented in this material that relate to any such proceedings have not been reviewed by, discussed with, and may not reflect information known to,
professionals in other business areas of BofA Merrill Lynch in connection with the legal proceedings or matters relevant to such proceedings.
This report has been prepared independently of any issuer of securities mentioned herein and not in connection with any proposed offering of securities or as agent of any issuer of any
securities. None of MLPF&S, any of its affiliates or their research analysts has any authority whatsoever to make any representation or warranty on behalf of the issuer(s). BofA Merrill Lynch
Global Research policy prohibits research personnel from disclosing a recommendation, investment rating, or investment thesis for review by an issuer prior to the publication of a research
report containing such rating, recommendation or investment thesis.
Any information relating to the tax status of financial instruments discussed herein is not intended to provide tax advice or to be used by anyone to provide tax advice. Investors are urged to
seek tax advice based on their particular circumstances from an independent tax professional.
The information herein (other than disclosure information relating to BofA Merrill Lynch and its affiliates) was obtained from various sources and we do not guarantee its accuracy. This report
may contain links to third-party websites. BofA Merrill Lynch is not responsible for the content of any third-party website or any linked content contained in a third-party website. Content
contained on such third-party websites is not part of this report and is not incorporated by reference into this report. The inclusion of a link in this report does not imply any endorsement by or
any affiliation with BofA Merrill Lynch. Access to any third-party website is at your own risk, and you should always review the terms and privacy policies at third-party websites before
submitting any personal information to them. BofA Merrill Lynch is not responsible for such terms and privacy policies and expressly disclaims any liability for them.
Certain outstanding reports may contain discussions and/or investment opinions relating to securities, financial instruments and/or issuers that are no longer current. Always refer to the most
recent research report relating to an issuer prior to making an investment decision.
In some cases, an issuer may be classified as Restricted or may be Under Review or Extended Review. In each case, investors should consider any investment opinion relating to such issuer (or
its security and/or financial instruments) to be suspended or withdrawn and should not rely on the analyses and investment opinion(s) pertaining to such issuer (or its securities and/or
financial instruments) nor should the analyses or opinion(s) be considered a solicitation of any kind. Sales persons and financial advisors affiliated with MLPF&S or any of its affiliates may not
solicit purchases of securities or financial instruments that are Restricted or Under Review and may only solicit securities under Extended Review in accordance with firm policies.
Neither BofA Merrill Lynch nor any officer or employee of BofA Merrill Lynch accepts any liability whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential damages or losses arising from any use of
this report or its contents.
36 Global Equity Volatility Insights | 06 June 2017
Research Analysts
Benjamin Bowler
Equity-Linked Analyst
MLPF&S
+1 415 676 3595
benjamin.bowler@baml.com
Abhinandan Deb >>
Equity-Linked Analyst
MLI (UK)
+44 20 7995 7148
abhinandan.deb@baml.com
Anshul Gupta >>
Equity-Linked Analyst
MLI (UK)
+44 20 7996 7062
agupta113@baml.com
William Chan, CFA >>
Equity-Linked Analyst
Merrill Lynch (Hong Kong)
+852 3508 3921
william.w.chan@baml.com
Nitin Saksena
Equity-Linked Analyst
MLPF&S
+1 646 855 5480
nitin.saksena@baml.com
Clovis Couasnon >>
Equity-Linked Analyst
MLI (UK)
+44 20 7995 0303
clovis.couasnon@baml.com
Jason Galazidis >>
Equity-Linked Analyst
MLI (UK)
+44 20 7996 5713
jason.galazidis@baml.com
Chintan Kotecha
Equity-Linked Analyst
MLPF&S
+1 646 855 5478
chintan.kotecha@baml.com
Stefano Pascale
Equity-Linked Analyst
MLPF&S
+1 646 855 2631
stefano.pascale@baml.com
>> Employed by a non-US affiliate of MLPF&S and is not registered/qualified as a research analyst under the FINRA rules.
Refer to Other Important Disclosures for information on certain BofA Merrill Lynch entities that take responsibility for
this report in particular jurisdictions.
Global Equity Volatility Insights | 06 June 2017 37
