piecemeal renovations—as well as a famous roach and rodent problem—to be vexing and
even a little scary. Friends who admired his skills as a hotelier wondered why he just
didn’t remake the place, but he seemed cowed by the weight of the watchful eyes on him.

Kellyanne Conway, whose family had remained in New Jersey, and who had
anticipated that she could commute home when the president went back to New York, was
surprised that New York and Trump Tower were suddenly stricken from his schedule.
Conway thought that the president, in addition to being aware of the hostility in New
York, was making a conscious effort to be “part of this great house.” (But, acknowledging
the difficulties inherent in his change of circumstances and of adapting to presidential
lifestyle, she added, “How often will he go to Camp David?’—the Spartan, woodsy
presidential retreat in Catoctin Mountain Park in Maryland—“How ’bout never.”’)

At the White House, he retreated to his own bedroom—the first time since the
Kennedy White House that a presidential couple had maintained separate rooms (although
Melania was spending scant time so far in the White House). In the first days he ordered
two television screens in addition to the one already there, and a lock on the door,
precipitating a brief standoff with the Secret Service, who insisted they have access to the
room. He reprimanded the housekeeping staff for picking up his shirt from the floor: “If
my shirt is on the floor, it’s because I want it on the floor.” Then he imposed a set of new
rules: nobody touch anything, especially not his toothbrush. (He had a longtime fear of
being poisoned, one reason why he liked to eat at McDonald’s—nobody knew he was
coming and the food was safely premade.) Also, he would let housekeeping know when
he wanted his sheets done, and he would strip his own bed.

If he was not having his six-thirty dinner with Steve Bannon, then, more to his liking,
he was in bed by that time with a cheeseburger, watching his three screens and making
phone calls—the phone was his true contact point with the world—to a small group of
friends, among them most frequently Tom Barrack, who charted his rising and falling
levels of agitation through the evening and then compared notes with one another.

OOK Ok

But after the rocky start, things started to look better—even, some argued, presidential.

On Tuesday, January 31, in an efficiently choreographed prime-time ceremony, an
upbeat and confident President Trump announced the nomination of federal appellate
judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court. Gorsuch was a perfect combination of
impeccable conservative standing, admirable probity, and gold-standard legal and judicial
credentials. The nomination not only delivered on Trump’s promise to the base and to the
conservative establishment, but it was a choice that seemed perfectly presidential.

Gorsuch’s nomination was also a victory for a staff that had seen Trump, with this
plum job and rich reward in his hand, waver again and again. Pleased by how the
nomination was received, especially by how little fault the media could find with it,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019948
