for defying a federal court order to take down a monument of the Ten Commandments in
the Alabama judicial building.)

For Bannon, the president’s political thinking had been obtuse at best. He was unlikely
to get anything from McConnell—and indeed Trump had demanded nothing for his
support for Luther Strange, which came via an unplanned tweet in August. Strange’s
prospects were not only dim, but he was likely to lose in a humiliating fashion. Roy
Moore was the clear candidate of the Trump base—and he was Bannon’s candidate.
Hence, that would be the contest: Trump against Bannon. In fact, the president really
didn’t have to support anyone—no one would have complained if he’d stayed neutral in a
primary race. Or, he could have tacitly supported Strange and not doubled down with
more and more insistent tweets.

For Bannon, this episode was not only about the president’s continuing and curious
confusion about what he represented, but about his mercurial, intemperate, and often
cockamamie motivations. Against all political logic, Trump had supported Luther Strange,
he told Bannon, because “Luther’s my friend.”

“He said it like a nine-year-old,” said Bannon, recoiling, and noting that there was no
universe in which Trump and Strange were actually friends.

For every member of the White House senior staff this would be the lasting conundrum
of dealing with President Trump: the “why” of his often baffling behavior.

“The president fundamentally wants to be liked” was Katie Walsh’s analysis. “He just
fundamentally needs to be liked so badly that it’s always ... everything is a struggle for
him.”

This translated into a constant need to win something—anything. Equally important, it
was essential that he /ook like a winner. Of course, trying to win without consideration,
plan, or clear goals had, in the course of the administration’s first nine months, resulted in
almost nothing but losses. At the same time, confounding all political logic, that lack of a
plan, that impulsivity, that apparent joie de guerre, had helped create the disruptiveness
that seemed to so joyously shatter the status quo for so many.

But now, Bannon thought, that novelty was finally wearing off.

For Bannon, the Strange-Moore race had been a test of the Trump cult of personality.
Certainly Trump continued to believe that people were following him, that he was the
movement—and that his support was worth 8 to 10 points in any race. Bannon had
decided to test this thesis and to do it as dramatically as possible. All told, the Senate
Republican leadership and others spent $32 million on Strange’s campaign, while Moore’s
campaign spent $2 million.

Trump, though aware of Strange’s deep polling deficit, had agreed to extend his
support in a personal trip. But his appearance in Huntsville, Alabama, on September 22,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020113
