Global Utility White Paper CONFIDENTIAL

Appendix 1: The Team and Our Process
e Electron Focus

Electron’s universe of utility and infrastructure stocks is deep, comprising 375 companies with a market
cap of $2.8 trillion. Stocks covered include the electric, gas, water and waste utilities in addition to
infrastructure companies (defined as those levered to utilities or utility-like). Our approach is truly global
as 40-60% of the portfolio’s historical gross has been allocated outside the US.

e Electron Team

Electron’s cohesive, long-standing team consists of 8 members, including 5 investment professionals who
have worked (with Jos Shaver as Portfolio Manager) at SAC Capital and the original Electron Capital for an
average of 6 years. In addition, 4 of the 5 investment professionals have lived outside the US, a distinct
competitive advantage given our global approach. Each investment professional brings his/her own
specific expertise and diligent research to our process, working collaboratively across regions to conduct
deep-dive research on the most compelling opportunities in the global utility sector.

The other members of Electron complement the skills and experience of the investment team. Electron’s
experienced operations/investor relations professionals are former Intrepid Capital employees who
worked with the Electron team during the first iteration of Electron (2005-2008) when the firm had a
services agreement with Intrepid Capital.

Finally, a Senior Advisory Board consisting of former C-level utility executives from around the globe has
been with the team since the launch of the original Electron Capital in 2005, and all have rejoined for
Electron’s re-launch.

As Portfolio Manager, Jos Shaver has covered the global utility and infrastructure sectors for the past 21
years, and his sector perspective benefits from his having lived 10 years abroad (5 years in Asia covering
the Asian utilities and 5 years in Europe covering European utilities) and 11 years in the US. In addition, as
Managing Partner, Jos controls all major decisions at Electron.

e Track Record (7 years)

Electron’s 7-year track record (3 years audited from the original Electron and 4 years from SAC Capital)
has annualized 10.3% since inception and has been characterized by strong alpha generation on both the
long and short side (80% of returns, based on Jensen’s alpha calculation). Electron generated this 7-year
track record during an exceptionally challenging period for global utilities — the MSCI World Utility Index
has been the worst-performing MSCI Global Sector ex-financials over the track record period, down -0.2%.
Notwithstanding, Electron’s track record has bested the MSCI World Utility, S&P 500 and HFRI indices by
91%, 67% and 61%, respectively.

e Process

First, given Electron’s global approach to utility research, we tend to have a clear competitive advantage
with respect to early recognition of cross-border structural change (e.g., how a change in Asian seaborne
coal market might affect off-peak power prices and thus earnings for a Midwest US utility). Moreover,
our global research approach allows us to gain perspective on structural change outcomes given our
knowledge of global precedents and the likely reaction from various interested parties (e.g., governments,
regulators, managements, customers, consumer groups, rating agencies, shareholders, debt holders, et
al.) We analyze other global precedents, develop a thesis and then conduct deep-dive research to gain
conviction. Once we have developed a structural change thesis, we proceed to a full bottoms-up analysis

20 Electron Capital Partners, LLC

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024221
