How the Best Universities Inadvertently Ruin Our Schools 197

In fact, diverting from that story for a moment, my secretary, who
never went to college, insisted that her daughters go, so one of them
found herself in an art history course that she hated and complained
to her mother who in turn complained to me. Why does she have to
take art history? She is a business major (at Hofstra), for God’s sake,
said my secretary.

Obviously, I replied, there are art history professors who are wor-
ried that no one will take their course and they will be fired (tenure
doesn’t apply in that case as tenured faculty can be fired if their de-
partment is shut down), so they have lobbied successfully to require it.
She thought that was stupid and so do I. Now back to Northwestern.

Clearly the mathematics professors at Northwestern were simi-
larly concerned. Of course, they made their argument, the same way
the Hofstra art history professors did, one would assume, about these
courses being necessary for a liberal education, but the real argument
was about saving the department and everyone knew it.

But at Northwestern, this math argument had been made a long
time ago. What was new was that linguistics, at Northwestern, had
been classified as a math course! The reasons are clear enough. No one
was taking linguistics at Northwestern and the linguists were scared.
How they won the argument that linguistics was math (and thus an
alternative to the required math course) is anybody’s guess. Just re-
member that none of this is being done with the interests of the stu-
dents as the real agenda item.

If you believe, as universities do, that the most important thing
you can do as an administrator is recruit superstars to make your uni-
versity great, then there is a consequence to all this. The students suf-
fer. At first this seems an odd idea. How could a student be harmed by
recruiting a superstar? Well, it depends on the university.

At MIT, where students are different than they are at Northwestern
by quite a bit, there are a number of superstars that I know quite well.
Two of them, whom I will not name but are about as famous as a pro-
fessor can be, are people I have heard lecture many times. I have never
understood what they were talking about in any of those lectures. Now,
bear in mind that I know their fields very well so I should have been
able to understand them. Also, bear in mind that I was a terrible stu-
dent, which means my attention fades fast when I am bored or irritated.

Since I know these two men well enough, I can tell you that nei-
ther is particularly worried about being understood. They have been

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023943
