8 MICHAEL WOLFF

Porter had, before the age of forty, two bitter ex-wives, at least one
of whom he had beaten, and both of whom he had cheated on at talk-
of-the-town levels. During a stint as a Senate staffer, the married Porter
had an affair with an intern, costing him his job. His girlfriend Samantha
Dravis had moved in with Porter in the summer of 2017, while, quite
unbeknownst to her, he was seeing Hicks. “I cheated on you because you're
not attractive enough,” he later told Dravis.

In a potentially criminal break of protocol, Porter had gained access
to his raw FBI clearance reports and seen the statements of his ex-wives.
His most recent ex-wife had also written a blog about his alleged abuse,
which, while it did not name him, clearly fingered him. Concerned about
the damaging impact his former wives could have on his security review,
he recruited Dravis to help him smooth his relationship with both women.

Lewandowski, Hicks’s former boyfriend, caught wind of the Hicks-
Porter relationship and began working to expose it; by some reports,
he got paparazzi to follow Hicks. Though Porter’s history of abuse was
slowly making its way to the surface as a result of the FBI investigation,
the Lewandowski campaign against Hicks cut through many other efforts
to cover up Porter’s transgressions.

Dravis, in the autumn of 2017, heard the Lewandowski-pushed
rumors of the Hicks-Porter relationship. After finding Hicks’s number
listed under a man’s name in Porter's contacts, Dravis confronted Porter,
who promptly threw her out. Moving back in with her parents, she began
her own revenge campaign, openly talking about Porter's security clear-
ance issues, including to people inside the White House counsel's office,
saying he had protection at the highest levels in the White House. Then,
along with Lewandowski, Dravis helped leak the details of the Hicks-
Porter romance to the Daily Mail, which published a story about it on
February 1.

But Dravis, joined by Porter's former wives, decided that, outra-
geously, he had come out looking good in the Daily Mail account—he
was part of a glam power couple! Porter called Dravis to taunt her: “You
thought you could get me!” Dravis and his former wives all then publicly
revealed their abuse at his hand. His first wife said he kicked and punched
her; she even produced a photograph of her black eye. His second wife

SIEGE -

informed the media that she had filed an emergency protective orc
against him.

The White House, or at least Kelly—and likely Hicks—had been aw:
of many of these claims and, effectively, covered them up. (“You usua
have enough competent people for White House positions to weed out t
wife beaters, but you couldn't be so choosy in the Trump White House,’ sz
one Republican acquaintance of Porter's.) The furor that erupted arou
Porter and his troubling gross-guy history not only annoyed Trump
“He stinks of bad press”—it further weakened Kelly. On February 7, af
both of his former wives gave interviews to CNN, Porter resigned.

A publicity-shy Hicks—Donald Trump put a high value on associa’
who did not steal his press opportunities—suddenly found her love |
in the glare of intense international press scrutiny. Her affair with the d
credited Porter highlighted her own odd relationship with the preside
and his family, as well as the haphazard management, interpersonal d:
functions, and general lack of political savvy in the Trump court.

+ +

The affair was, curiously, among the least of Hicks’s problems. Indeed, 1
Hicks the Porter scandal became perhaps a better cloud under which
leave the administration than what almost everybody in the West Wi
assumed was the real cloud.

On February 27, a reporter at the Washington insider newsletter Axi
Jonathan Swan, a favorite conduit for White House leaks, reported tl
Josh Raffel was leaving the White House. In a novel arrangement, Rai
had come into the White House in April 2017 as the exclusive spokespers
for the president's son-in-law Jared Kushner, and his wife, Ivanka, bypa
ing the White House communications team. Raffel, who, like Kushn
was a Democrat, had worked for Hiltzik Strategies, the New York pub
relations firm that represented Ivanka’s clothing line.

Hope Hicks, who had also worked for the Hiltzik firm—perhaps b.
known for having long represented the film producer Harvey Weinste
caught, in the fall of 2017, in an epochal harassment and abuse scanc
and cover-up—had originally had the same role as Raffel but at a higt
level: she was the personal spokesperson for the president. In Septemb

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021128
