Page 12 of 78
2007 Utah L. Rev. 861, *877

witnesses, but also the victim as well. ?° Notably, the Advisory Committee's rationale for this change was to implement[] the
victim's right to be treated with fairness’ under the Crime Victims' Rights Act. °?’ But if a change to the relatively obscure
Rule 18 is appropriate in light of the victim's right to fairness, why aren't changes to many other, more significant rules also
appropriate?

Further highlighting the inconsistent treatment of the right to fairness is the way the Advisory Committee handled parallel
provisions in the CVRA. In a single clause, the CVRA gives victims the right to be treated not only with fairness, but also with
dignity and respect: section (a)(8) of the CVRA provides that victims shall enjoy the right to be treated with fairness and with
respect for the victim's dignity and privacy. °* The Advisory Committee used victims' rights to dignity and respect as a
springboard in several places. For example, the Advisory Committee proposed an amendment to prevent inappropriate
subpoenas for personal or confidential formation about a victim, explaining that this amendment implements the Crime
Victims Rights Act, codified at /S U.S.C. § 377](a)(8), which states that victims have a right to respect for their dignity and
privacy. °° Similarly, the Advisory Committee proposed an amendment to prevent the inappropriate release of a victim's
address and telephone number as part of alibi defense disclosures, explaining that this amendment implements the victims’
rights under the Crime Victims Rights Act ... to be treated with respect for the [*878] victim's dignity and privacy. !°° Why
the Advisory Committee believed it appropriate to try to implement the dignity and privacy provisions of the CVRA but not
the immediately adjacent fairness provision is unclear.

C. The Advisory Committee Should Not Leave the CVRA's Interpretation to the Litigation Process.

The Advisory Committee also justified its decision not to review the Rules for fairness on the ground that it would not
attempt to use the rules to anticipate and resolve the interpretative questions that will arise under the CVRA. !°! Yet a basic
purpose - perhaps the basic purpose - behind the procedural rules is to lay out answers to questions that might otherwise have to
be litigated. To that end, Rule 2 of the criminal rules provides that these rules are to be interpreted to provide for the just
determination of every criminal proceeding, to secure simplicity in procedure and fairness in administration, and to eliminate
unjustifiable expense and delay. !° It is at odds with securing simplicity in procedure to simply regurgitate the language of
the CVRA in the criminal rules, leaving every interpretative question to the vagaries of litigation.

Historical examples are legion of the Advisory Committee amending the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure precisely to
resolve questions that were being (or might have been) litigated. To provide a few straightforward examples, in 1979 the
Advisory Committee amended and clarified the standards for presentence withdrawal of a guilty plea. The Advisory Committee
noted that courts had critically stated that the Rule offers little guidance as to the applicable standard for a presentence
withdrawal of plea and that as a result the contours of [the presentence] standard [in the rule] are not easily defined. 1°? The

amendment clarified language which has been a cause of unnecessary confusion. 04

% See Advisory Committee Report, supra note 69, at 8 (adopting proposal from Cassell, Proposed Amendments, supra, note 4, at 878-79).

7 Td. at 4; accord CVRA Subcommittee Memo, supra note 66, at 8.

8 18 USC. § 3771 (a)(8).

9 Advisory Committee Report, supra note 69, at 3 (note to Proposed Rule 17(c)(3)).

80 Td. at 351.
°l CVRA Subcommittee Memo, supra note 66, at 2.
02 Fed. R. Crim. P. 2.

63 Fed. R. Crim. P. 32 advisory committee's note (1979 Amend. to Rule 32(d)) (internal quotation marks omitted).
4 Td.

DAVID SCHOEN

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017647
