interconnectivity to humans for
millennia. Just as computers have
capacities and processes that are
transduced through but extend far
beyond the hardware of a single
computer, the human brain has evolved
to promote social and cultural capacities
and processes that are transduced
through but that extend far beyond a
solitary brain. To understand the full
capacity of humans, one needs to
appreciate not only the memory and
computational power of the brain but its
capacity for representing, understanding,
and connecting with other individuals.
That is, one needs to recognize that we
have evolved a powerful, meaning
making social brain.

Social species, by definition,
create structures beyond the individual—
structures ranging from dyads and
families to institutions and cultures.
These emergent structures have evolved
hand in hand with neural and hormonal
mechanisms to support them because the
consequent social behaviors (e.g.,
cooperation, empathy, altruism, etc.)
helped these organisms survive,
reproduce, and care for offspring
sufficiently long that they too
reproduced. From an evolutionary
perspective then, the social context is
fundamental in the evolution and
development of the human brain.

The observable consequences of
these higher organizations have long
been apparent, but we are only now
beginning to understand their genetic,
neural, and biochemical basis and
consequences. To fully delve into these
complex behaviors, science needs to deal
with the invisible forces that shape
human life, whether it is in the form of
physical, biological, or psychological
forces. For instance, anthropomorphism,
the irrepressible proclivity to attribute

Page |14

human characteristics onto nonhuman
objects to achieve meaning,
predictability, and human connection, is
beginning to be subjected to productive
multi-level scientific analysis.
Experimental studies have shown that
manipulations which increase feelings of
social isolation without the possibility of
resolving these feelings through human
interaction have the compensatory effect
of increasing people’s tendency to
anthropomorphize, including heightened
beliefs in God. This scientific work has
implications for understanding claims
regarding the success of religious
practices such as solitude as paths to
feeling closer God. Research on
anthropomorphism has now identified
developmental, situational, dispositional,
and cultural factors that modulate
people’s tendency to anthropomorphize
nonhuman agents ranging from
technological gadgets to animals to gods,
and the neural mechanisms underlying
this transconfiguration of nonhuman
objects into human-like agents are
beginning to be revealed.

Guided by the insights from
these new scientific theories of
anthropomorphism, historical analyses
may be worthwhile to determine whether
concepts of god have changed across
time and cultures such that god was
created in the image of the believer
rather than vice versa. Xenophanes (6th
century B.C., cited in 9), for instance,
was apparently the first to use the term
“anthropomorphism” when describing
the similarities between religious agents
and their believers, noting that Greek
gods were invariably fair skinned and
blue-eyed whereas African gods were
invariably dark skinned and dark-eyed
(joking that cows would surely worship
gods that looked strikingly cow-like).
Brain imaging research has confirmed

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021260
