Whistle-blower | 91

“The initial impression was one of extreme confusion,” Greenwald
wrote in his book. “I was expecting to meet somebody in his six-
ties or seventies, someone very senior in the agency, because I knew
almost nothing about him prior to our arrival in Hong Kong.” His
initial confusion was understandable. Snowden, it will be recalled,
had falsely identified himself to them in an e-mail as a senior mem-
ber of the intelligence community.

Snowden led Greenwald and Poitras to the nearby elevator, and
they went through various corridors of the hotel to his room on
the tenth floor. It was mainly occupied by a king-sized bed, but it
also featured a sleek writing desk in the corner, two chairs, and a
modernistic lamp. The bathroom was behind a glass partition, which
could be closed off by a black louver blind. There was also a small
refrigerator in which Snowden asked them to stow their cell phones.

Snowden, as we know, had already told Poitras that he wanted
her to make a documentary of the meeting. She therefore wasted
no time in mounting her camera on a tripod. “Minutes after meet-
ing, I set up the camera,” she said. Snowden told her, “When you

© are involved in an action which is likely to get you indicted, you ®
typically don’t have a camera rolling in the room.” Nevertheless,
he allowed her to film his actions for the next eight days. One pos-
sible reason is that he had no intention of standing trial. In any case,
as Poitras found out, Snowden was anything but camera shy. Over
the next week, she would shoot over twenty hours of Snowden’s
activities in that small room. It was essentially a one-man show, a
presentation of him, by himself, for the appreciation of a global pub-
lic. Poitras knew virtually nothing about her subject until ten min-
utes before she began filming him. She had not even googled him,
because she was concerned that her Internet search might alert the
NSA and law enforcement authorities. In an over-the-top waiver of
his own privacy, he allowed her to film him washing in the bath-
room, preening his hair in the mirror, napping on his bed, getting
dressed, and packing his bag. He even permitted her to film a private
computer exchange between him and Mills (who was in Honolulu).
That day Mills informed Snowden that two government investiga-
tors had come to their home in Hawaii, asking her about Snowden’s
whereabouts. When he had failed to show up for work on June 3 it

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 91 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019579
