James PATTERSON

Jeffrey Epstein. Finally, desperately, he tried to sell the informa-
tion he'd stolen.

The papers named underage girls and the places where
Epstein had taken them. The list included locations in Califor-
nia, Paris, New Mexico, New York, and Michigan. The papers
also included the names, addresses, and phone numbers of
famous individuals—Henry Kissinger, Mick Jagger, Dustin Hoff-
man, Ralph Fiennes, David Koch, Ted Kennedy, Donald Trump,
Bill Richardson, Bill Clinton, and former Israeli prime minister
Ehud Barak among them.

This was intriguing, if not at all damning. Epstein made a
habit of collecting such information for future use. But informa-
tion pertaining to the girls would have bolstered the state’s case
against Jeffrey Epstein, and by withholding it from the Palm
Beach PD and the FBI, Rodriguez had committed a crime.

In his defense, Rodriguez would say that the papers were an
“insurance policy.” Without them, he believed, Epstein would

have made him “disappear.”

But now Rodriguez needed the money. And so a few weeks q
after Epstein’s release from the Stockade, he approached a lawyer ~
who was representing some of Epstein’s masseuses. He had the F
“holy grail,” he insisted. A*“golden nugget.” The names of hun- 4

dreds of girls, he said, who had been abused by Epstein.

The lawyer told Rodriguez in no uncertain terms that he was —
obliged to turn whatever he had over to the authorities. By a
demanding money for the information, Rodriguez was commit 4

ting another crime.

According to a sworn statement by Christina Pryor, a special |

agent with the FBI, Rodriguez “persisted that he would only turn
0,000

over the information in his possession in exchange for $5

218

Fit:

Two months later, on Octobe:
who insisted once more on bi
lawyer told him that an associ
What the lawyer knew anc
the associate in question was.
the FBI. A few days later, on }
guez and sets up a meeting, wi
“During the meeting, Roc
book and several sheets of legs
ten notes,” Special Agent Pryo
continues:

Rodriguez explained that he
his former employer's resid
2004 to 2005 and that the bo
working for his former emy
detail the information within
ant information to the UCE. I
he had previously lied to the.
about the $50,000, took posse
counting it.

Rodriguez was then detai
Proceedings, Title 18, U.S. Co
tioned. After Miranda warning
Rodriguez waived his rights a
those rights. Rodriguez admiti
and book in his possession an

to local law enforcement or th

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022025
