¢ Freedom
1 House

Executive Summary

Breaking Down Democracy: Goals, Strategies,
and Methods of Modern Authoritarians

by Arch Puddington

The 21st century has been marked by aresurgence of authoritarian
rule that has proved resilient despite economic fragility and
occasional popular resistance. Modern authoritarianism has
succeeded, where previous totalitarian systems failed, due to refined
and nuanced strategies of repression, the exploitation of open
societies, and the spread of illiberal policies in democratic countries
themselves. The leaders of today’s authoritarian systems devote full-

time attention to the challenge of crippling the opposition without
annihilating it, and flouting the rule of law while maintaining a
plausible veneer of order, legitimacy, and prosperity.

Central to the modern authoritarian strategy is the
capture of institutions that undergird political plural-
ism. The goal is to dominate not only the executive
and legislative branches, but also the media, the
judiciary, civil society, the commanding heights of the
economy, and the security forces. With these institu-
tions under the effective if not absolute control of an
incumbent leader, changes in government through fair
and honest elections become all but impossible.

Unlike Soviet-style communism, modern authoritari-
anism is not animated by an overarching ideology or
the messianic notion of an ideal future society. Nor
do today's autocrats seek totalitarian control over
people's everyday lives, movements, or thoughts.
The media are more diverse and entertaining under
modern authoritarianism, civil society can enjoy an

independent existence (as long as it does not pursue
political change), citizens can travel around the coun-
try or abroad with only occasional interference, and
private enterprise can flourish (albeit with rampant
corruption and cronyism).

This study explains how modern authoritarianism de-
fends and propagates itself, as regimes from different
regions and with diverse socioeconomic foundations
copy and borrow techniques of political control.
Among its major findings:

« Russia, under President Vladimir Putin, has
played an outsized role in the development of
modern authoritarian systems. This is particu-
larly true in the areas of media control, propa-
ganda, the smothering of civil society, and the

www.freedomhouse.org

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019235
