NAUTIL.US | TEXT SETS

Will natural gas be a bridge for Primus to green
fuel, or will it be too cheap and attractive to resist as
a permanent substitute for biomass? For the moment,
the company seems keen to squeeze what it can out of
the shale gale. With the help of more than $50 million
in Israeli money, Primus is building a demonstration
plant the size of a house near its headquarters in New
Jersey, due to open this year. The location is off the
map—even Google won’t guide you there, as if it were
some secretive skunk works facility, which is how the
company likes to think of rt. The plant will take natural
gas from the local utility, run it through its proprietary
set of chemical reactions and, on the far end, out of a
spigot, will come gasoline—12.7 gallons per hour at full
capacity. The company’s first commercial plant, due to
start construction next year, will likely be located near
a source of natural gas.

Scaling up the technology this way will reduce the
overhead costs per unit of gasoline—that is, the cost
of fabricating the reactors and buying the zeolites and
feedstocks. Plus, Primus’ technology may prove eco-
nomical enough at a scale small to allow its plants to
be distributed close to remote natural gas wells or even
sources of biomass. It is no coincidence that the com-
pany based itself in verdant New Jersey, “the Garden
State”; proximity to biomass is crucial for producers,
because transporting heavy and unwieldy wood or
corn stalks across large distances tends makes the end
product too costly and undercuts the greenhouse-gas
savings that are a large part of its appeal.

As I prepare to drive off, Fang carts out one of his
collection of red plastic gas cans and dumps a liter or
so of Primus-made, natural gas-to-gasoline fuel into
my tank. A test car tooled around on it last summer,
with no problems. The hope is to be able to charge
a premium for the higher-octane premium product.
“People pay twice as much for organic food,” Boyayian
says. “So why not pay more for green gasoline?” My
fuel sensor can tell the difference: it registers an anom-
alously high miles-per-gallon number.

Fang gives me two thumbs up as I pull away, watch-
ing me drive off on his preferred solution to the ener-
gy crisis. It’s unclear whether Primus will ever find
the occasion to turn back towards biogasoline—and
whether that’s a long-term fix for the world’s ener-
gy and environmental conundrum. Striving to make

27

cleaner fuel for standard, dirty combustion engines
may reinforce drivers’ loyalty to today’s technology.
Such lock-in makes a true revolution difficult until
some alternative energy source—whether battery-
driven electric cars or engines modified to burn car-
bon-neutral, as-yet-unmade biofuels—offers the kind
of convenience and low cost that justifies replacement.
At present, Primus appears set to become part of a
sprawling infrastructure that reinforces the incentives
to use greenhouse gas-producing, gasoline-like fuels.
And for all those concentrated octanes in my tank, I
still have to pull into a Shell station to fill up on con-
ventional gasoline, blended with corm ethanol, in order
to drivehome. ©

david biello is the Environment and Energy Editor for
Scientific American. He is currently working on a book about the
Anthropocene.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015487
