IV. OPPORTUNITY IN THE HEALTHCARE SECTOR

The Fund Managers believe a number of macro market factors have aligned to create attractive
and lasting conditions for NLV-III’s targeted investment strategy in healthcare technology.
Each of these market factors individually would have a direct positive impact on the level of
risk and the potential for returns from investments in the healthcare technology sector. The fact
that there are positive trends in all of them occurring simultaneously is unprecedented, and the
Fund Managers expect that this will create a uniquely positive environment for NLV-III’s
investments in the healthcare technology sector. These macro market factors include the
following:

STRONG GROWTH IN GLOBAL HEALTHCARE MARKETS

Healthcare is one of the largest and most dynamic segments of the global economy, and its
growth is projected to continue the well-established historical trend of outpacing GDP growth
in major economies for at least the next decade.2! In the U.S., since 1970, health care spending
per capita has grown at an average annual rate of 8.2% or 2.4 percentage points faster than
nominal GDP. The persistence of this trend suggests systematic differences between health care
and other economic sectors where growth rates are typically more in line with the overall
economy. A smaller difference is projected over the 2011 to 2020 period, where the average
annual growth in per capita health spending (5.3%) is projected to be about 140 basis points
higher than the growth in GDP (3.9%). This powerful and sustained growth differentiates
healthcare from many other large industrial and technology sectors, and it creates a positive
backdrop for investment in certain areas within the sector.

The drivers of healthcare market growth vary between mature and emerging economies, but in
both cases the shifts are resulting in significant increases in per capita health care consumption
and predictable increases in spending to meet the rising demand. In developed economies,
growth is being driven primarily by an aging population coupled with a continued willingness
of payers to cover the costs for new therapeutics and interventions that meaningfully extend or
improve the quality of patients’ lives. In the U.S., which is representative of the demographic
shifts in other major economies, the number of people over 65 is expected to double over the
next three decades, reaching 70 million by 2030 or roughly 20% of the total U.S. population.
This aging demographic has a higher prevalence of disease and the cost of delivering care to
treat the diseases of this older demographic is rising steadily. For example, in 2009, the per
capita health care cost for a person 65 - 74 years old was approximately $14,000, but it was more
than double that ($33,000) for those over 85. Before the end of this decade, the projected per
capita annual cost to care for these same two groups is expected to rise to $22,000 (+57%) for 65
- 74 year olds and $55,000 (+67%) for those 85+24.

Emerging markets such as Brazil, Russia, India and China (BRICs) are also contributing to the
growth in health care spending globally, as these emerging markets mature and begin moving
towards the standards of their counterparts in developed economies. The size of the middle

*! CMS, OECD, Eurostat
22 Historical data from Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Office of the Actuary, National Health Statistics Group
U.S. Census Bureau

Alvarez & Marsal healthcare, getting much closer to the cost precipice

24 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024035
