12/8/2015

Prince Andrew and girl, 17, who sex offender friend flew to Britain to meet him | Daily Mail Online

My father left and | was told to go upstairs.’ She was led by another woman through Epstein’s
bedroom into a massage room where he lay face down naked on a table.

He started to interviewed Virginia. This was unconventional, but Virginia had no suspicions.
Presumably, she thought, this was how the wealthy conducted their business.

Epstein elicited the information that Virginia had been a runaway, and was no longer a virgin.

Virginia was then told to start massaging Epstein, under the instructions of the woman who had
shown her in. The massage quickly developed into a sexual encounter.

Virginia was uncomfortable, but reluctant to deny such important people. ‘My face was red with
embarrassment,’ she says. ‘But | felt under immense pressure to please them.

The whole time it was going on, they were promising me the world, that I’d travel with Jeffrey on his
private jet and have a well-paid profession.’ Afterwards, she was given two $100 bills and told to
return the next day.

That was the beginning of the four years she spent with Epstein.

For three of those years, she was under Florida’s age of consent, which is 18.

Troubled teenager: Virginia on the billionaire's Zorro ranch in New Mexico in 2001

Virginia was fascinated by his life story: the son of a humble New York City parks worker, he was a
teacher before becoming a Wall Street broker and friends with the upper echelons of the political,
financial and academic establishment.

As a confused teenager, Virginia easily fell into the practice of sexually gratifying him for money.
He guaranteed her a minimum of $200 each time she gave him what he called an ‘erotic massage.’

Virginia said: ‘| would always receive the money immediately. He would give me the cash from a wad
he carried in a black duffel bag or an assistant paid me.

‘And, because of the way Epstein had warped her sensibilities, every time she took the cash,
Virginia felt even more indebted to him. Secretly, he was also preparing her for an even more
disturbing role.

‘Basically, | was training to be a prostitute for him 4 H
and his friends who shared his interest in young Epstein had trained me
girls,’ she says: ‘After about two years, he started to do whatever men

to ask me to “entertain” his friends.’

It started when Epstein called Virginia at the Pam Wanted. | told myself I
Beach apartment he had rented for her. .
was special

She recalls: ‘He said, “I’ve got a good friend and |
need you to fly to the island to
entertain him, massage him and make him feel how you make me feel.”

He didn’t spell out what | had to do. He didn’t have to. ‘He’d trained me to do whatever a man
wanted. | was shocked but | told myself he was sharing me around because he trusted me and | was
special.

| was worried, but | would do anything to keep Jeffrey happy and to keep my place as his number
one girl.

He would keep telling me how lucky | was with the life | was leading and the money | was making. It
was easy to fall into his grasp.

‘The way it usually worked was I’d be sent to meet a man on the private island Jeffrey owned in the
Caribbean, or at his ranch in New Mexico, which was really isolated.’ She was ‘given’ to men ranging
in age from their 40s to their 60s.

They included a well-known businessman (whose pregnant wife was asleep in the next room), a
world-renowned scientist, a respected liberal politician and a foreign head of state.

None appeared to think the arrangement was unusual. Virginia says there were many other girls in
Epstein’s circle and that she was paid extra money to help recruit them.

‘They would lounge around the Palm Beach house, the ranch or the island, nude or topless,’ she
says. ‘But | was one of the very few he trusted as “special” and chosen to “entertain” his friends.’

Virginia took the sedative Xanax to detach herself from sordid reality. ‘It was an escape drug,’ she
says. ‘It made me calm and helped me forget about what | had to do. | was up to eight pills a day.’

Epstein had no objection to Virginia’s use of prescription drugs, no doubt recognising that they made
her even more malleable. ‘I didn’t want to go back to the life I'd had before’ she says.

‘That made me totally obedient.’ Despite the fact that Epstein was, essentially, her pimp, this life now
seemed normal to Virginia. ‘I felt that he and Ghislaine really cared for me,’ she said.

> The Hunger Games
may have prequels as
Lionsgate promises the
franchise ‘will live on
and on’

Lionsgate is exploring the
possibilities

> 'My funny honey’:
Christie Brinkley
promotes her 17-year-
old daughter Sailor's
modeling career with
some bikini snaps on
Instagram

b'She's doing great!':
Kim Kardashian's BFF
Jonathan Cheban gives
update on Saint's
mother as he gets
cheeky with bikini-clad
girlfriend in Miami

> Jimmy Kimmel makes
up fake baby names for
Kim and Kanye's son
during Lie Witness News
segment

Spok in his segment Lie-
Witness News

b Victoria's Secret Angel

Lily Aldridge reveals her 2

husband doesn't want
their daughter
‘anywhere near the
runway’ but insists she
would proud

» Androgynous model
challenges Victoria's
Secret's beauty
standards by posing in
the brand's lingerie and
then editing the faces of
Angels onto her body

» Hey Baby! Abigail
Breslin signs on to star
in Dirty Dancing TV
musical

The iconic 1987 movie
famously starred Jennifer
Grey

>» Emma Watson cuts a
chic figure with knitted
jumpsuit as she attends
screening of ethical
fashion documentary in
London

Harry Potter star

» Yolanda Foster's
estranged husband
David 'blames' Real
Housewives show for
‘ruining his reputation’
and the failure of his
record company

b'lcan handle myself’:
New Star Wars: The
Force Awakens trailer
shows Daisy Ridley
trying to put Harrison
Ford in his place
Highly anticipated film

http:/Awww.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-1361039/Prince-Andrew-girl- 17-sex-offender-friend-flew-Britain-meet-him.htm|

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015646

4/29
