predicted an increased likelihood of
becoming inactive, but the effects of
loneliness were independent of changes
in health status. Similarly, individuals
with fewer social connections (i.e., a
smaller social network) were less likely
to be physically active, but the effects of
loneliness on physical activity did not
depend on the size of the social network.
The invisible force of loneliness seems
to play a unique role in this particular
predisease pathway.

Another commonly cited risk
factor for disease is stress. In reality,
“stress” refers to a family of predisease
pathways, each of which may be
vulnerable to the influence of lonely
feelings. Loneliness is itself a source of
stress, but lonely individuals also differ
in their exposure to stressful events and
circumstances. This is less evident in
young adults than it is in older adults in
whom loneliness was associated with
having experienced a greater number of
stressful life events in the past year (e.g.,
death in the family, marital crisis,
change in employment status) and more
sources of chronic stress (e.g.,
employment stress, marital stress).° In
addition, lonely individuals perceive life
as more stressful and less gratifying than
their socially connected counterparts,
even when objective indications are that
lonely and nonlonely individuals do not
differ in the types of activities and
behaviors they engage in on a daily
basis. Good quality social interactions
typically ameliorate feelings of stress,
but because lonely people perceive their
interactions to be less positive than those
of nonlonely people, they fail to derive
the same benefit. Good coping strategies
can also ameliorate feelings of stress, but
lonely individuals are more likely to
respond to stress with pessimism and
avoidance than with optimism and active

Page |43

engagement. And to add insult to injury,
loneliness increases sensitivity to and
surveillance for social threats. Anxiety,
low self-esteem, and fear of negative
evaluation elicit self-defensive behaviors
and effectively tax cognitive resources
that would normally be available to meet
the demands of daily life stress. Thus,
what might naively be thought of as a
circumscribed problem—the feeling of
loneliness and isolation—may be seen
by the sufferer as a world of inescapable
threat.’

How might these cognitions and
perceptions influence physiology and
health? As Berntson shows in his
chapter, the brain regions involved in
emotional and perceptual processes are
intimately related to brain regions
involved in the regulation of
physiological systems. This is
particularly evident in alterations of the
functioning of the cardiovascular system
in lonely individuals. In young adults,
this alteration is apparent in increased
resistance to blood flow in small arteries
throughout the body. Increased vascular
resistance is a precursor and
predominant contributor to age-related
increases in systolic blood pressure
(SBP), a major risk factor for
cardiovascular disease. In middle-aged
adults, SBP is significantly higher in
lonely adults than in their nonlonely
counterparts. Moreover, loneliness
accelerates the rate of increases in SBP,*
indicating a faster decline in
physiological resilience and a heightened
risk for chronic cardiovascular disease.
It’s as though loneliness accelerates the
aging process.

By virtue of extensive
interconnections among the brain,
peripheral nervous systems, and
endocrine glands, the feelings of
isolation and loneliness have a broad and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021289
