Chapter 3
A Patternist Philosophy of Mind

3.1 Introduction

In the last chapter we discussed human intelligence from a fairly down-to-earth perspective,
looking at the particular intelligent functions that human beings carry out in their everyday
lives. And we strongly feel this practical perspective is important: Without this concreteness, it’s
too easy for AGI research to get distracted by appealing (or frightening) abstractions of various
sorts. However, it’s also important to look at the nature of mind and intelligence from a more
general and conceptual perspective, to avoid falling into an approach that follows the particulars
of human capability but ignores the deeper structures and dynamics of mind that ultimately
allow human minds to be so capable. In this chapter we very briefly review some ideas from the
patternist philosophy of mind, a general conceptual framework on intelligence which has
been inspirational for many key aspects of the CogPrime design, and which has been ongoingly
developed by one of the authors (Ben Goertzel) during the last two decades (in a series of
publications beginning in 1991, most recently The Hidden Pattern |[Goe06al). Some of the ideas
described are quite broad and conceptual, and are related to CogPrime only via serving as
general inspirations; others are more concrete and technical, and are actually utilized within
the design itself.

CogPrime is an integrative design formed via the combination of a number of different
philosophical, scientific and engineering ideas. The success or failure of the design doesn’t depend
on any particular philosophical understanding of intelligence. In that sense, the more abstract
notions presented in this chapter should be considered “optional” rather than critical in a
CogPrime context. However, due to the core role patternism has played in the development of
CogPrime, understanding a few things about general patternist philosophy will be helpful for
understanding CogPrime, even for those readers who are not philosophically inclined. Those
readers who are philosophically inclined, on the other hand, are urged to read The Hidden
Pattern and then interpret the particulars of CogPrime in this light.

3.2 Some Patternist Principles

The patternist philosophy of mind is a general approach to thinking about intelligent systems.
It is based on the very simple premise that mind is made of pattern — and that a mind is a

35

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012951
