ANIV14 CGIAVG

For more than a decade, David Blaine has been attracting
the world’s attention with his high-profile endurance stunts.
Starting his career as a magician who appeared to do the
impossible with a deck of cards, he was soon following in the
footsteps of Houdini—seeking out that which seems physically
impossible and actually doing it. To that end, he’s been buried
alive in New York City for a week, barely survived being
encased inside a six-ton block of ice for three days and three
nights, stood atop a 100-foot-tall pillar in Bryant Park for 36
hours without a safety net, survived inside a transparent box in
London on nothing but water for 44 days, and spent one week
submerged in a sphere-shaped aquarium at Lincoln Center, at
the end of which he attempted to break the world record for
breath holding. A year later, he succeeded live on the Oprah
Winfrey show, holding his breath for 17 minutes and 4 seconds.
Born in Brooklyn, Blaine discovered his passion for
magic at the age of four when he saw a magician perform
in the subway. His mother encouraged his passion and he
began performing professionally at private parties by the age
of thirteen. By the age of twenty-three, Blaine had created,
directed, and produced an original television program titled
Street Magic, which garnered rave reviews by critics and

revolutionized the way magic is portrayed on television.
Penn Jillette of Penn & Teller called Street Magic “the best
TV magic special ever done” and “the biggest breakthrough
in our lifetime.” The New York Times noted that David has
“taken a craft that’s been around for hundreds of years

and done something unique and fresh with it.” The New
Yorker claimed that “he saved magic.” Since then, Blaine
has produced nine additional primetime specials.

Blaine has performed magic privately for U.S.
Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush, Governor
Arnold Schwarzenegger, Bill Gates, Henry Kissinger, Mayor
Bloomberg, Mark Zuckerberg, and Muhammad Ali, as
well as President Dmitry Medvedev of Russia and other
international leaders. He also performed alongside Michael
Jackson, and during the Super Bowl halftime show.

In 2010, Blaine performed magic for 72 hours
straight in Times Square, raising nearly $100,000 for
relief efforts following the earthquake in Haiti.

Blaine resides in New York City with his
fiancée, Alizee Guinochet. The couple welcomed a
magical daughter into the world on January 27, 2011.

a

= i “

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017531
