Software 239

Algorithms

Back in the 1930s no mechanical system could perform a calculation
with any speed. People still used pencil and paper for most things; the
newly-invented mechanical cash registers were slow and could perform
only one calculation for each crank of the handle. If you wanted to
calculate something complex, you had to employ a computer: a person
who could do mental arithmetic enormously fast. Richard Feynman’s
first job was computing for the Manhattan Project. The question was:
Could a computer, either mechanical or human, blindly follow known
rules to decide all mathematical questions? Hilbert’s 10 Problem asked
this question of a particular type of mathematical expression — called a
Diophantine equation.

Hilbert’s 10 Problem

“Given a Diophantine equation with any number of unknown
quantities, devise a finite process to determine whether the
equation is solvable in rational integers.”

David Hilbert

Diophantus lived in ancient Persia — now Iran. His son died young
and Diophantus was so consumed by grief he retreated into mathematics.
He left us seven books of mathematical puzzles — some he devised himself
and some of them taken from antiquity. The puzzles look deceptively
simple and are all based on equations using whole numbers. His most
famous puzzle is set in a poem which tells how old Diophantus was when
he died. Can you solve it?

“Here lies Diophantus,; the wonder behold. Through art algebraic,
the stone tells how old: ‘God gave him his boyhood one-sixth of
his life, One twelfth more as youth while whiskers grew rife; And
then yet one-seventh ere marriage begun; In five years there came
a bouncing new son. Alas, the dear child of master and sage, after
attaining half the measure of his father’s age, life chill fate took him.
After consoling his fate by the science of numbers for four years, he
ended his life.”

Diophantine puzzles look straightforward. Hilbert asked if these

problems could be solved by a mechanical procedure, in modern terms,
by an algorithm. To show you what is meant by this, allow me to take you

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015929
