Aside from the connection vs. control distinction, there is also a distinction between
PUAs who are seeking what is essentially self-help, and those who aren't.

The PUA concept that best illustrates this is inner game. Inner game is, essentially,
genuine confidence and sense of purpose. It contrasts with outer game -- 1.e., the things
a PUA says and does to attract women. A neg would count as outer game, for
example.

Most successful PUAs reach a point where they decide that, in the words of one coach:
emotionless sport-fucking kinda sucks. (Some PUAs start at this point, but that is a bit
unusual.) They conclude that it's time to pull back from the game; to seek longer-term or
more emotionally connected sex; to examine their priorities; and to discover interests
aside from picking up new girls. Finding themselves in this way can be described as
inner game. The men who discuss inner game often talk about developing their own
businesses, exercising regularly, keeping a healthier diet, accepting their own
vulnerabilities, pursuing hobbies, and improving their connections with people of all
genders.

Most PUAs also realize that women respond well to genuine confidence and sense of
purpose. This could be seen as ironic: notwithstanding the fact that inner game
emphasizes self-improvement, the concept is still centered on seducing women.
However, despite the fact that inner game is centered on gaming ladies, its ultimate
result is usually to encourage PUAs to think about what they really want from life. PUA
coach Mark Manson once wrote that, You don't end up in the Pick Up Artist community
unless you are incredibly unhappy or unsatisfied about something. It may be conscious, it
may be unconscious. It may be short-term, or it may be deep-seated and long-term. He
later wrote to me by email that: This is a giant self-help community in disguise.” I also
once interviewed Neil Strauss himself, who said he hoped that his famous book The
Game could become the beginning of a men's self-help movement -- because self-help
isn't emasculating anymore if you're doing it to get laid.”

Interestingly, Neil Strauss also told me that he agreed with feminism in many ways, and
said things like: We still are a patriarchal society. Many feminists felt that my interview
with him was full of problematic statements, and his words were picked apart by feminist
readers. I do not disagree with many feminist critiques of what Strauss said -- but
considering where Strauss was coming from, his words were extraordinarily supportive
of feminism. One feminist commented to me that, I don't understand why you're not
more critical of this guy. In response, it is worth noting how an anti-feminist writer
responded to Strauss's words:

Whether Strauss is an ignorant fool or an opportunist liar who wants to appease
feminists in order to avoid negative feedback is anyone's guess, but if his words are
anything to go by, we can safely assume that the best-known public advocates of Game
are perfectly OK with parroting feminist dogma.

For the few, mild pro-feminist statements Strauss made, some PUAs deride him as either
an ignorant fool or an opportunist liar. (Others hurled particularly misogynist insults
such as mangina.) This is both a demonstration of how vitriolic PUA anti-feminist
sentiment can become, and an example of the social shaming that sometimes leads men

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018667
