Indyk. Israeli public believes that they have no Arab partner w whom they can
negotiate a peace. Syria reinforces notion that Israel should not take risk when
regimes are fragile.

DR. Sinai is flashpoint w Egypt. Admin has had a very meaning? Palestinian
issue is not key. Wasn’t art of Islamic awakening, but it is not insignificant.
Demographics compel 2 state solution. Too much distrust between Israel and
Palestinians. Steps that each could take to move towards each other (e.g. Israel
offers money to any settler who leaves West bank.

Iran

TJP summary. Discussions suggest that it is more likely than not that there will
be a military attack on Iran in next 18 months. That is going to be very ugly.
Interestingly, polls suggest population and IR academics would not support such
an attack. Both Pawlenty — representing Romney, and Podesta — representing
Obama, presented a logic that — if followed, would lead to war with Iran. Logic
sitting in Aspen is fine, pulling the trigger 1s another matter.

Graham Allison. Two terrible choices, we should look for a third way.

Steve Hadley. Iraq was not a war of choice, it was a war of last resort when all

other options failed. Aug, 2013 we will be out of options on Iran. We do need

to think hard about our options and the sequencing of those options. Think in

terms of a f

family of options and the methods of moving through them.

1. Stop the clock, buy time. Iran has rejected this.

2. Put more on the table. More for more.

3. Secure the big agreement that ends dispute. Could the US agree to allowing
Iran to have a limited amount of LEU — say 3-5% enriched unranium.

4. Ifall of the above fails - what to do? US should try to establish a status quo
w redlines where, if Iran tries to break out, we have time to attack. We
would also want to understand Iran’s redlines.

5. Long term sanctions, pressure and isolation to try for regime change.

6. Limited military strike.

7. Big strike

Bill Perry: a military strike by US or Israel will have serious, unknowable and
unintended consequences. Therefore attack is very unattractive. Iran is close to a

1]

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025807
