known or explorable brain mechanisms, one might argue that at this early stage of
the work it would be more desirable to simply report the quantitative findings,
leaving unanswerable questions about ultimate causality for later discussion (see

below).

The first EEG 4(+) was reported in a patient with epilepsy (Babloyantz and

Destexhe, 1986) which was confirmed by others (lasemedia et al, 1988; Frank et
all, 1990). An important study of simultaneous time series from 16 subdural
electrodes placed in the right temporal cortex of a patient with a right medial
temporal lobe epileptogenic focus demonstrated that a decrease in a single lead’s
A(+) reliably anteceded and localized the first signs of the incipient seizure. The
rest of the leads followed with similarly decreased positivity in their leading
Lyapounov exponents associated with spatially coherent patterns of behavior. In
addition, the averaged value of the leading Lyapounov exponents in the 16 leads
increased post-ictally over the averaged values of 4(+)in the pre-ictal state
(lasemidis et al, 1988,1990). These findings, including seizure anticipation for 25
minutes, were confirmed using intracranial recordings in 16 patients with temporal

lobe epilepsy (Elger and Lehnertz, 1998). The para-ictal decrease and post-ictal
increase in 4(+) found in patients with focal temporal lobe seizures was confirmed

more generally in left and right pre-frontal-to-mastoid EEG recordings made before,
during and after electroconvulsive shock treatment of psychiatric patients (Krystal
and Weiner, 1991). Pre-ictal changes were also found six minutes before seizure
onset from scalp EEG recordings in 17/19 patients with chronic focal epilepsy
(Martinerie et al, 1998). The most exciting potential application of this approach is
its use, in real time, for the prediction and prophylactic treatment of incipient
seizures, minutes to hours before the event, in place of or augmenting long term

drug management (lasemidis and Sackellares, 1996).

There is a growing literature about leading Lyapounov exponent(s) in the
reconstructed attractor of the EEG associated with a variety of normal and

pathological human behavioral states. For examples, two and sometimes three

222

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013722
