Question: Obviously, before the European elections the two parties had a clear link to
Putin. If one of the representatives of the dangers of capitalism is the state involvement in
capitalism, so, I see there, also Marine Le Pen campaigning in Moscow with Putin, and
also UKIP strongly defending Russian positions in geopolitical terms.

[Harnwell restates, but unintelligible]

Harnwell: These two parties have both been cultivating President Putin [unintelligible].
Bannon: [ think it’s a little bit more complicated. When Vladimir Putin, when you really
look at some of the underpinnings of some of his beliefs today, a lot of those come from
what I call Eurasianism; he’s got an adviser who harkens back to Julius Evola and different
writers of the early 20th century who are really the supporters of what’s called the
traditionalist movement, which really eventually metastasized into Italian fascism. A lot of
people that are traditionalists are attracted to that.

One of the reasons is that they believe that at least Putin is standing up for traditional
institutions, and he’s trying to do it in a form of nationalism — and I think that people,
particularly in certain countries, want to see the sovereignty for their country, they want to
see nationalism for their country. They don’t believe in this kind of pan-European Union
or they don’t believe in the centralized government in the United States. They'd rather see
more of a states-based entity that the founders originally set up where freedoms were

controlled at the local level.

“You’re seeing a global reaction to centralized
government, whether that government is in
Beying or that government 1s in Washington,
DC, or that government is in Brussels. So we
are the platform for the voice of that.”

I’m not justifying Vladimir Putin and the kleptocracy that he represents, because he
eventually is the state capitalist of kleptocracy. However, we the Judeo-Christian West

really have to look at what he’s talking about as far as traditionalism goes — particularly

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029039
