12 Teaching Minds

hypotheses in plumbing as well as in medicine and that these expla-
nations exist for repairing a faulty engine and for understanding who
committed a crime. It is all scientific reasoning.

The difference between plumbing and medicine is in the complex-
ity of the science. Not a lot of invention goes on in plumbing and
there aren’t all that many explanations to choose from. The degree of
difficulty in understanding what is going on and why is what sepa-
rates those fields and makes one science and one not. But the basic
thought processes are the same.

This is important to notice because all these areas of inquiry are
what we might call diagnostic.

So, and this is the important part, the real issue from a cognitive
science point of view is not in teaching science per se, but in teaching
scientific activities, one of which is diagnosis. And, since diagnosis is a
similar process no matter what you are diagnosing, it makes sense that
all through school, diagnosis would be a subject, and not physics or
literature. The things that children are asked to diagnose might start
with things little kids like, like finding out what is wrong with their
pets or their toys, and then move on to things bigger kids like, like cars
and crime, and then move on to large issues, like why a business has
failed or why our foreign policy doesn’t work.

Diagnosis matters a great deal in our lives, yet it is not a subject in
school. This is not surprising because the origins of the school subject
areas, as I have said, are scholarly. But if we want to teach children to
do things that matter and we want to retain their interest because they
know intrinsically that these things do matter, then we must have
them practice diagnosis all through their school lives, in a variety of
venues that correlate with their interests. They don’t all have to diag-
nose the same stuff. It is the diagnostic process itself that matters, not
what is diagnosed.

I have been using the word subject for an idea like diagnosis but it
is not a subject and should not be seen that way. I have been using the
word only to contrast it to existing subjects in school. Diagnosis is a
fundamental cognitive activity. Cavemen did diagnosis. They may not
have done it well, but they did it well enough to continue the species.
The diagnostic process is as old as people. Knowing why, being able to
prove a hypothesis, is a fundamental cognitive process.

School needs to be organized around fundamental cognitive ac-
tivities. It would be easy to demean what I have said here by saying

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023758
