94 CASSELL ET AL. [Vol. 104

interstate communication in connection with sex offenses and traveling in
interstate commerce for the purpose of engaging in illicit sexual conduct
with minors.'°’ The local police provided the FBI with information, which
the FBI then investigated. Following an investigation, the FBI determined
that the allegations of abuse against Epstein were credible, and it presented
the case to the U.S. Attomey’s Office for the Southern District of Florida.
In 2007, the Office contacted counsel for Jeffrey Epstein and began
negotiating a resolution of the case against him.'”°

Under our proposed test, the victims would not have had CVRA rights
the first moment that the FBI became aware of Epstein’s possible
commission of sex offenses. But after the FBI developed substantial
evidence of those sex offenses, identified victims of those offenses, and
presented the case to the appropriate U.S. Attorney’s Office for prosecution,
CVRA rights would have attached. Accordingly, the FBI would have been
required to notify the identified victims of their rights under the CVRA (as
well as under the VRRA). From that point forward in the case, the victims
would have had CVRA rights, such as the right to fair treatment and the
right to confer with prosecutors. In this case, the victims would have had
the right to confer with prosecutors about the nonprosecution agreement
that they ultimately reached with Epstein.’

C. CURRENT DEPARTMENT POLICY ON PRE-CHARGING RIGHTS

One objection that might be made to the formulation offered above is
that it might unduly burden federal law enforcement officers and
prosecutors, who would need to make judgment calls about when an
investigation has coalesced to the point where “victims” are in existence,
“substantial evidence” has been collected, and notice of rights has to be
provided. Any such objection would be ill-founded, though, as it does not
appear that implementing such an approach would be difficult.*”
Presumably the Justice Department has already been providing such rights
in at least Texas, Louisiana, and Mississippi to comply with the Fifth

197 See 18 U.S.C. §§ 2422(b), 2423(b), (e) (2012).

198 A more substantial summary of the case is available in case filings. See Jane Doe
Motion, supra note 40.

199 See supra Part II.

200 This Article does not discuss mass victim cases in which notice needs to be provided
to hundreds of victims. But in such situations, the CVRA already provides for “reasonable”
alternative procedures. 18 U.S.C. § 3771(d)\(2) (2012). The Department of Justice, for
example, has used websites to provide notice in terrorism cases to large numbers of victims.
See, e.g., United States v. Ingrassia, No. CR-04-0455ADSJO, 2005 WL 2875220, at *4
(E.D.N.Y. Sept. 7, 2005); Criminal Division’s Victim Notification Program, U.S. DEP’T OF
Justice, http://goo.gl/6H6IEk (last visited Dec. 4, 2013).

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014073
