102 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

intelligence service. When she traveled, she bought “burner” phones
locally and disposed of them before any calls could be traced back to
her. Upon arriving in Hong Kong, she avoided meeting Snowden
face-to-face out of concern about the surveillance of American intel-
ligence there. Instead, for thirteen days in Hong Kong she worked
through intermediaries. Her task was not only to arrange Snowden’s
escape route but also to create diversions to camouflage his real des-
tination. Under Assange’s tutelage, she had made deceptive ploys an
integral part of her tradecraft. “We were working very hard to lay as
many false trails as possible,” she later told an interviewer in Berlin.

According to Assange, she booked decoy flights for Snowden to
Beijing and New Delhi. She also used Snowden’s credit card number
to pay for the flight to India; because the card was blocked, she knew
there was a high probability that it would come to the attention of
USS. intelligence. According to Harrison, she booked no fewer than
a dozen such decoy tickets to confuse Snowden’s possible pursuers
in U.S. intelligence. The only actual ticket she bought for Snowden,
according to an Aeroflot official, was one to Moscow at the last min-

® ute. She bought a ticket for herself on the same flight, leaving on ©
June 23.

The source of the money for the Assange-Harrison operation is
unclear. Subsequently, Harrison said she was setting up secret bank
accounts to help organize such transborder escapes. Assange said she
was using “WikiLeaks’s resources.” Harrison said the “WikiLeaks
team” helped fund Snowden’s flight to Russia from Hong Kong, as
well as her own flight there. But WikiLeaks was not an organization
with spare cash in June 2013. Assange had forfeited his own bail by
fleeing to the embassy of Ecuador, offending many of his financial
supporters in Britain. He had also all but exhausted his bank account.
Aside from money that dribbled in from Poitras’s six-month-old
Freedom of the Press Foundation, the only steady source of funds
for WikiLeaks in 2013 was the previously mentioned payments
Assange received from the Russian government's RT television.

Mounting pressure was brought on the Hong Kong government
to take action against Snowden. On June 16, the U.S. government
informed the Hong Kong authorities that it had filed a criminal
complaint against Snowden and would be seeking his extradition.

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 102 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019590
