molecular immunology at The Pasteur Institute and earned an M.D. and Ph.D. from the
University of Paris, and an M.B.A. from Columbia University.

Jeani Delagardelle, (57), Managing Director, helped found New Leaf in 2005. She joined Sprout
in 2000. At New Leaf, Jeani leads the Medical Device investment effort. Jeani is currently on the
boards of directors of Access Closure, Altura, Cardiokinetix, Direct Flow Medical, Intrinsic
Therapeutics, ReShape Medical, and Spiracur. She was previously on the boards of directors of
Interlace (NLV-I company acquired by Hologic), Epicor (acquired by St. Jude), Visiogen
(acquired by Abbott), PercuSurge (acquired by Medtronic), and NxStage Medical (NASDAQ:
NXTM). Prior to joining the healthcare investment team at Sprout, Jeani was a General Partner
at Weiss, Peck & Greer Venture Partners (“WPGVP”) where she focused on healthcare
investments. Before joining the venture industry, Jeani spent 16 years in senior marketing and
general management positions in both the medical device and pharmaceutical industries. She
was Vice President of Global Marketing for Target Therapeutics, held several senior
management positions within the Medi-tech division of Boston Scientific, and served as the
Director of Business operations for Roche Pharmaceuticals. Jeani earned an A.B. in Clinical
Psychology from Occidental College and an M.B.A. from the University of California at Irvine.

Ron Hunt, (49), Managing Director, joined Sprout in 1998 and helped found New Leaf in 2005.
He has played significant role in the firm’s investment activities in later stage
biopharmaceuticals and has also contributed to the activities in each of the other sectors. Ron is
currently on the boards of Durata Therapeutics (NASDAQ: DRTX), IlluminOss Medical,
Relypsa (NASDAQ: RLYP), and SpineWave. Ron was previously on the boards of Cerexa
(NLV-I company acquired by Forest Laboratories), Stromedix, Inc. (NLV-I company acquired
by Biogen Idec), Aspreva Pharmaceuticals (NASDAQ: ASPV, acquired by Galenica, Inc.), Phase
Forward (NASDAQ: PFWD, acquired by Oracle), and Pathology Partners (acquired by Caris
Group). Before joining Sprout, he spent a combined 12 years in the pharmaceutical industry in
operating roles and as a management consultant with The Healthcare Group (a division of the
Interpublic Group of Companies) and Coopers & Lybrand Consulting. He gained eight years of
operating experience in various commercial roles working for SmithKline Beecham and Johnson
& Johnson. Ron earned a B.S. from Cornell University and an M.B.A. from The Wharton School
of the University of Pennsylvania.

Vijay Lathi, (41), Managing Director, helped found New Leaf in 2005 and joined Sprout in 1998.
Vijay's activities are focused primarily on information convergence, although historically he has
been involved in investments across all sectors. He is currently on the boards of directors of
AwarePoint, Oxford Immunotech (NASDAQ: OXFP), iRkhythm Technologies, Kit Check,
TigerText and XDx, while maintaining board observer status with Labcyte. Vijay was
previously on the boards of Advanced Cell Diagnostics, Ilypsa (acquired by Amgen) and
Relypsa (NASDAQ: RLYP). Prior to joining Sprout, Vijay spent one year as an analyst in the
healthcare venture capital group at Robertson Stephens where he reviewed investments
spanning medical devices, therapeutics and healthcare information technology. Prior to
Robertson Stephens, Vijay spent approximately one and a half years as an analyst at
Cornerstone Research, a business consulting firm focused on financial and econometric
analysis. He earned an M.S. in Chemical Engineering from Stanford University and a B.S. in
Chemical Engineering from MIT, with a focus on applications of engineering to the life sciences.

12 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024023
