336 A Glossary

based, even though these other links can be processed via (e.g. PLN) logical inference via
interpreting them logically.

e Lojban: A constructed human language, with a completely formalized syntax and a highly
formalized semantics, and a small but active community of speakers. In principle this seems
an extremely good method for communication between humans and early-stage AGI sys-
tems.

e Lojban+-+: A variant of Lojban that incorporates English words, enabling more flexible
expression without the need for frequent invention of new Lojban words.

e Long Term Importance (LTI): A value associated with each Atom, indicating roughly
the expected utility to the system of keeping that Atom in RAM rather than saving it to
disk or deleting it. It’s possible to have multiple LTI values pertaining to different time
scales, but so far practical implementation and most theory has centered on the option of
a single LTI value.

e LTI: Long Term Importance

e Map: A collection of Atoms that are interconnected in such a way that they tend to be
commonly active (i.e. to have high STI, e.g. enough to be in the AttentionalFocus, at the
same time).

e Map Encapsulation: The process of automatically identifying maps in the Atomspace,
and creating Atoms that “encapsulate” them; the Atom encapsulation a map would link to
all the Atoms in the map. This is a way of making global memory into local memory, thus
making the system’s memory glocal and explicitly manifesting the “cognitive equation.”
This may be carried out via a dedicated MapEncapsulation MindAgent.

e Map Formation: The process via which maps form in the Atomspace. This need not be
explicit; maps may form implicitly via the action of Hebbian Learning. It will commonly
occur that Atoms frequently co-occurring in the AttentionalFocus, will come to be joined
together in a map.

e Memory Types: In CogPrime
this generally refers to the different types of memory that are embodied in different data
structures or processes in the CogPrime
architecture, e.g. declarative (semantic), procedural, attentional, intentional, episodic, sen-
sorimotor.

e Mind-World Correspondence Principle: The principle that, for a mind to display
efficient pragmatic general intelligence relative to a world, it should display many of the
same key structural properties as that world. This can be formalized by modeling the world
and mind as probabilistic state transition graphs, and saying that the categories implicit
in the state transition graphs of the mind and world should be inter-mappable via a high-
probability morphism.

e Mind OS: A synonym for the OpenCog Core.

e MindAgent: An OpenCog software object, residing in the CogServer, that carries out

some processes in interaction with the Atomspace. A given conceptual cognitive process

(e.g. PLN inference, Attention allocation, etc.) may be carried out by a number of different

MindAgents designed to work together.

e Mindspace: A model of the set of states of an intelligent system as a geometrical space,

imposed by assuming some metric on the set of mind-states. This may be used as a tool for

ormulating general principles about the dynamics of generally intelligent systems.

e Modulators: Parameters in the Psi model of motivated, emotional cognition, that modu-

ate the way a system perceives, reasons about and interacts with the world.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013252
