Code Enforcement Board Meeting Minutes 07/17/08

have brought them to November 2007 and they would have gotten additional time
for Hurricane Wilma which would have brought them to December. If they were
under the new Code, they would not be before the Board today and may not have
a fine at all. He realizes a mistake was made, he realizes something has to be paid
but he thinks $35,000 is a significant fine. The Board has gotten their attention
and they would ask for a significant reduction in the fine.

Mr. Fried asked how long it took to get the final inspection after the 22 months
had run. Mr. Walton said they had been given 23 months due to the hurricanes
and they were 5 months and 9 days beyond that. Mr. Ballentine asked how far out
they would be under the new rules. Mr. Walton said they would be given 24
months which with the hurricane would be 25 months. Mr. Lynch said that at the
end of that 24 month period, if they had not sought an extension of time within the
required time period, no earlier than 6 months and no later than 45 days, before the
expiration of that 24 months, their project would have been shut down. Mr.
Wagner’s lack of knowledge of this particular situation would have become
irrelevant because they would have been red tagged on the next day after the 24
month period. Mr. Lynch said Mr. Wagner did not know because he has been a
good corporate citizen and had never been before the Board except on one
occasion which was beyond his control; it was a maintenance item on the Glazer
house. Mr. Walton said that situation was not due to Mr. Wagner’s fault, that he
was just representing the owner.

Mr. Ballentine asked how Mr. Wagner did not know the Code requirement if he
had built so many homes in the area and said he had difficulty with the ignorance
of that.

Mr. Fried said he agreed with Mr. Ballentine and found it hard to believe that Mr.
Wagner did not know the time limits. He said some reduction should be considered
but he was not sure on what basis.

Mr. Ochstein remarked that the fine was around $35,000 and the house was on the
market for $10.6 million dollars so he did not see the hardship. Mr. Lynch said he
did not know the price but he would accept Mr. Ochstein’s statement on that. Mr.
Lynch said the hardship was in the imposition of the fine itself, there were mistakes
made and he believed that Council would have given them a significant extension
of time if Mr. Wagner had been aware of the situation and filed the proper notice
with Town Council.

Mr. Lynch said if some sort of arrangement could be reached today, his client
would be in a position to pay within the next two weeks. Mr. Hoffman said he
was concerned because he believed that when the case was originally heard, they
had the option of fining $250.00 a day and they gave them a fine reduction at the
time they initiated the fine of $125.00 a day. Mr. Walton corrected Mr. Hoffman,
advising there was a motion for a fine of $125.00 a day which failed and the fine
that was in effect was $250.00 a day. Mr. Lynch said he believed the record
reflects something different than that. Mr. Walton said his records reflect $250.00

18

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016571
