Al Pacino and David Mamet were huddled on
a couch as Spike Lee and Meredith Vieira sat
nearby listening.

At Warner Bros’ fancy private dinner for its
nominees at the Bel Air Hotel, Nicky and I were
greeted by David Heyman. Executives Sue Kroll
and Juli Goodwin brought us over to Sandra
Bullock and CEO Kevin Tsujihara. Again,
everyone whispered, “Who is winning Best
Picture?” Gravity's technical wizardry, revered in
L.A., was now thought to have the edge.

Spike Jones arrived and was too superstitious
to discuss his chances for Best Original Screenplay
for Her. He won. Don't worry about Blue Jasmine
fellow nominee Woody Allen; he was tap dancing
with Susan Stroman on Broadway, rehearsing
Bullets Over Broadway. As a man who doesnt
believe in campaigning for awards, he just might
show up to collect a few Tonys.

An exhausted Alfonso Cuarén was the last to
appear, with girlfriend Sheherazade Goldsmith.
He was fighting a cold and couldn't wait to get
back to real, not reel, life.

Brad Grey’s party for Paramount’s nominees
was in full swing at Spago Beverly Hills. The Wolf
of Wall Street’s Marty Scorsese was huddled in
a booth with Brad, marketing maven Megan
Colligan, producer Irwin Winkler, and the
ageless Don Rickles. Jonah Hill’s buddy
Leonardo DiCaprio had just left, as he was
getting a cold too, but he later showed up at the
Bel Air, where Marty was staying, to have drinks

&
“

a al Cannes, was finally over.

with Scorsese and Cuaron in the bar.
Nebraska talent Bruce Dern, Will
Forte, June Squibb, cinematographer
Phedon
screenwriter Bob Nelson relaxed

Papamichael and
since their grueling nine-month

campaign, which had begun at
hale Ron vice
chairman of Universal,

Meyer,

had his annual private
/ party at his Malibu home
EB —  inhonor of Graydon Carter.
Barbra Streisand, Jim Brolin,
John Travolta, Kelly Preston,
if Diane Lane, Robert Downey Jr.,
and Paul Rudd mingled under a
tent with interior designer Sandy
Gallin and his new husband
Bryan Fox. Ron's daughter,
jewelry designer Jennifer Meyer,
came alone. It was nanny’s
night off, so her husband Tobey
Maguire stayed home with the
kids.

Larry Gagosian gave his 17th

Lara

annual art opening and dinner,
Spencer

which is always a hot ticket for the rich and
hip. This year, art photographer Taryn Simon
mounted a show titled “Birds of the West Indies”
after the seminal taxonomy by ornithologist
James Bond. The exhibition also chronicled the
women, weapons, and cars depicted in the Bond
films, in addition to the birds that appear in all 24
movies. Even MGM couldnt dream this up.

Dinner followed next door at Mr. Chow’s,
complete with Eva and Michael Chow. Simon’s
filmmaker husband Jake Paltrow brought his
mother Blythe Danner and his sister Gwyneth.

Since the Spielbergs and the Paltrows are
close family friends, Kate Capshaw arrived with
Theo and Sasha Spielberg. Jared Leto came
with Terry Richardson. Adrien Brody, Elle
Fanning, Cameron Diaz, John Waters, and
Robbie Robertson chowed down. Power
collectors Eli and Edythe Broad and Bill
and Maria Bell split chopsticks.

After dinner, we migrated to Gagosian’s
home. It was raining, it was windy, and
it was cold. Teetotaler Robbie Robertson
slipped on wet stone outside the house. He
was taken to the hospital that night and
endured a two-hour operation on three
broken ankle bones. Simultaneously,
Nicky Haslam slipped onto a glass table | *
and crashed to the floor. Nicky was fine; <
the table was a goner—so much excitement
for one night.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28
Woke up this morning and the eye problem
had reached epic proportions as my left eye
was now shut. Found an eye doctor to lance the
infected eyelid. He gave me enough drugs to get
me to the Publicist Guild lunch at the Beverly
Wilshire Hotel.
a Lifetime Achievement Award from

Jerry Lewis was receiving
Carol
Burnett. Thankfully, I only needed one eye to
take all that in.

At her uncle’s Rodeo Drive store, Roberta
Armani toasted fellow Italians Marty Scorsese
and Paolo Sorrentino. The suits Leo wore in
The Wolf of Wall Street were designed for him by
Armani himself.

Paolo Sorrentino was the overwhelming
favorite to win Best Foreign Film for his Fellini-
inspired The Great Beauty, and indeed he won.

Armani’s talent turnout was very impressive.
Cate Blanchett, who has signed with the designer
as the face of his perfume, was there with Glenn
Close, Robert DeNiro, and Samuel L. Jackson.
All were bedecked in Armani.

Wanda McDaniel, the marketing guru for
Armani, was the very first to dress actresses on
the red carpet. Jodie Foster was her muse and
that was 25 years ago.

ay
i

Bette Midler

,

so

Laura Dern, Bruce Dern
and Andrea Beckett

APRIL 2012 * AVENUE MAGAZINE | 57

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010720
