In a well-publicized national scandal in 2008, the Tehran police commander responsible
for enforcing Iran's strict anti-vice laws, Reza Zarei, was caught nude in a brothel with six
women (one of the women claimed he had asked them to pray naked in front of him).
While American politicians might bounce back from such transgressions with their

own television show (see: Spitzer, Eliot), the revelation of the incident reportedly led

Zarei to attempt suicide while in prison.

The shame of sexual malfeasance has been routinely used by the regime as a form of
political coercion and intimidation. When the famously jocular reformist cleric
Mohammad Ali Abtahi, former vice president to Mohammad Khatami, was imprisoned
after Iran's contested 2009 presidential election, he surprised his supporters by confessing
with great gusto to being part of a Western-backed conspiracy to foment a velvet
revolution. Although his confession was undoubtedly forced, his close associates claim that
what compelled him to confess was not physical or psychological torture but hidden
photos of him -- in flagrante delicto -- at a secret Tehran love nest that was long being

monitored.

The Islamic Republic isn't always so prudish, however. In fact, it's been willing to use
sexual incentives as a form of statecraft. Ina WikiLeaked U.S. State Department
cable, for example, senior Iraqi tribal chief Abu Cheffat confided in a U.S. diplomat in
Baghdad that Tehran effectively wielded influence over Iraqi politicians -- ostensibly
visiting Iran for medical treatment -- by offering inducements including temporary
marriages with Iranian women. Not that Cheffat was complaining, mind you: The perks
were surely better than when he visited President George W. Bush at the White House in
2008. It was not without reason, he explained, that Iranian soft power was trumping

American hard power in Iraq.

More recently, three Iranian intelligence agents who unsuccessfully tried to kill Israeli
government officials in Bangkok this past February photographed themselves at a bar in
the beach resort of Pattaya with local escorts. When I asked the scion of a powerful
cleric in Tehran how ostensible devotees of Khomeini's religious ideology are able to
reconcile frequenting non-Muslim prostitutes and drinking alcohol, he quickly dismissed

any religious obstacles. There are government clerics who can easily grant them religious

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026560
