Edwards adv. Epstein
Telephone interview with Virginia Roberts
Page 3 of 23

JS:

JS:

JS:

JS:

When you say that the room was hidden, Virginia, how was the room concealed?

It wasn’t like a door that you would normally go into, like some kind of special opening,
you open that and then a little door, so it looks like it’s a little closet so-to-speak, but
when you walk in there, it’s obviously a lot bigger than just a closet. It wasn’t too big,
but it was bigger, you know. It wasn’t a gigantic room, it was just like a small room,
which you know, it probably could fit some shoes in there, it had racks of shoes, boxes,
some sweatshirts neatly folded, and the ceiling to the floor was covered in pornographic
pictures of the girls that he had met.

When you say...

So anyways, that was getting there, and I was introduced to Jeffrey, he was laying naked
on top of the massage table, and obviously for one, I’m a 15 year old girl and seeing him
on the table was weird but, also learning about anatomy and massage, I thought this
would be part of it. So obviously, I thought it was part of the massage program, so I said
ok, this is fine. And, he then instructed me on how to touch the body, Jeffrey’s body,
how to massage him, and for the first hour, it was actually a real massage, maybe not an
hour, maybe like 40 minutes or something, but of something like that _and that’s when he
turned over on the other side and to expose himself fully. So then Ghislaine told me that
she wanted me to undress and began to take off my shirt and skirt, my white uniform
from Mar-A-Lago, she also took off her shirt and got undressed, and so I was there with
just my undies on, and she was completely bare, and made some kind of little flake about
the underwear that I was wearing because it wasn’t my normal sexy girl underwear and
just like, I don’t know, had red hearts on it or something like that; just your normal, you
know, real cute underwear. Anyways, so during all of this I’m kind of like what’s going
on, how do I act, what do I say, I was so afraid of, not afraid or fearful for my life but
_unsure of how all this started and wanting to obtain a profession_ I was so aftaid
thinking about upsetting and disappointing them, I don’t know, it’s a weird situation by
far and I was expected to Lick his nipples, instructed on how to do so by J.E_ and give
him oral sex while he wanted to fondle me, and then at the end, I was told by Ghislaine to
get on top and straddle Jeffrey sexually, and when we were done, we went and had a
shower in the room and Jeffrey told me to wash him up and down, you know with a bar
of soap and make sure he was all cleaned up. And then he took me downstairs and took
me to two of the guards and told John to bring me home. John was the butler at the time.

Let me interrupt you for just a moment there if I could, Virginia. You mentioned as you
were recounting those details that you were 15 years old at the time. What is your date of
birth?

August 9, 1983

And can you tell us please, as best you’re able to estimate it, what the date was when this
first encounter occurred?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012109
