Turing’s Machine 227

and so on.

You can see that every program imaginable is generated in our
list. If you are wondering which version of Word or Excel, the answer
is every version and every bug ridden unreleased version as well. We
are enumerating every program that could ever be run in the known
universe!

Perhaps you can see a problem looming. Ican pose any mathematical
puzzle in a clever way so that a program only stops if there is a solution.
I am about to list every possible program that could ever be created. If
halt exists this will automatically prove every mathematical theorem
imaginable.

Let us see if this is so.

For our thought experiment, we will assume every program takes
an input. Historical convention in computing means this is generally the
case. If you type a program into the command line of a computer with
some words listed afterwards, the computer will usually run the program
with the words as input. For example, if you type, “Print “Hello World”,
most computers will print “Hello World.

We now imagine there is a Halt program that can run on an infinity
of inputs. Will it work for every input? We are looking for a paradox
caused by the existence of the Halt program. If Halt causes a paradox
then Halt cannot exist.

Here goes...

If there is a Halt program, we can write a Crash program. That’s a
program that goes into an infinite loop if it detects a program will halt.
Now what happens when we feed Crash into itself? Does Crash halt if it
runs with the input Crash?

This creates a paradox; there is no solution which makes sense. It’s
similar to the Barber Paradox of earlier. Since a paradox is created there
must be a fault in our original theory. The error is the existence of Crash.
Since Crash cannot exist and it was created as the logical opposite of
Halt, Halt cannot exist either. QED. There is no general program that will
tell if another program will halt because such a program could not run
with the negative of itself as input.

This places a limit on the power of computers to automatically
solve problems. There is certainly no general purpose algorithm which
will solve every problem. Slightly more subtly there is no general
purpose program that is guaranteed to solve one arbitrary problem.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015917
