outcome that a special prosecutor delegated to find a crime would find one—likely many.
Everybody became a potential agent of implicating others. Dominos would fall. Targets
would flip.

Paul Manafort, making a good living in international financial gray areas, his risk
calculation based on the long-shot odds that an under-the-radar privateer would ever
receive close scrutiny, would now be subjected to microscopic review. His nemesis, Oleg
Deripaska—still pursuing his $17 million claim against Manafort and himself looking for
favorable treatment from federal authorities who had restricted his travel to the United
States—was continuing his own deep investigation into Manafort’s Russian and Ukrainian
business affairs.

Tom Barrack, privy to the president’s stream of consciousness as well as his financial
history, was suddenly taking stock of his own exposure. Indeed, all the billionaire friends
with whom Trump got on the phone and gossiped and rambled were potential witnesses.

In the past, administrations forced to deal with a special prosecutor appointed to
investigate and prosecute matters with which the president might have been involved
usually became consumed by the effort to cope. Their tenure broke into “before” and
“after” periods—with the “after” period hopelessly bogged down in the soap opera of G-
man pursuit. Now it looked like the “after” period would be almost the entirety of the
Trump administration.

The idea of formal collusion and artful conspiracy—as media and Democrats more or
less breathlessly believed or hoped had happened between Trump and the Russians—
seemed unlikely to everybody in the White House. (Bannon’s comment that the Trump
campaign was not organized enough to collude with its own state organizations became
everybody’s favorite talking point—not least because it was true.) But nobody was
vouching for the side deals and freelance operations and otherwise nothing-burger stuff
that was a prosecutor’s daily bread and the likely detritus of the Trump hangers-on. And
everybody believed that if the investigation moved into the long chain of Trump financial
transactions, it would almost certainly reach the Trump family and the Trump White
House.

And then there was the president’s insistent claim that he could do something. J can
fire him, he would say. Indeed, it was another of his repetitive loops: I can fire him. I can
fire him. Mueller. The idea of a showdown in which the stronger, more determined, more
intransigent, more damn-the-consequences man prevails was central to Trump’s own
personal mythology. He lived in a mano a mano world, one in which if your own
respectability and sense of personal dignity were not a paramount issue—if you weren’t
weak in the sense of needing to seem like a reasonable and respectable person—you had a
terrific advantage. And if you made it personal, if you believed that when the fight really
mattered that it was kill or be killed, you were unlikely to meet someone willing to make it
as personal as you were.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020065
