James PATTERSON i

advised he had witnessed nude girls whom he believed were
underage at the pool area of his former employer's home,
knew that his former employer was engaging in sexual con-
tact with underage girls, and had viewed pornographic
images of underage girls on computers in his employer's d 4
home. Rodriguez was then released from custody for further _
investigation. i:

The items that Rodriguez had attempted to sell to the a ;
UCE for $50,000.00 were reviewed by an agent familiar with
the underlying criminal investigation. As Rodriguez had
described, the items contained information material to the
underlying investigation that would have been extremely use-
ful in investigati[ng] and prosecuting the case, including the
names and contact information of material witnesses and
additional victims. Had those items been produced in
response to the inquiries of the state law enforcement officers
or the FBI Special Agents, their contents would have been

Prince Andrew: 201]

rince Andrew also fares
imprisonment.

presented to the federal grand jury. She Oe
Ghislaine Maxwell introduced |
time in the 1990s. In 2000, Eps
Castle to celebrate the queen’s t
; flew to Sandringham, the quee:
Be a party Prince Andrew threw for
7 The prince had also visited
| Palm Beach as well as in New
' Roberts made in her 2015 decla
asked her to give the prince wi
7 back with the details.

q According to the Guardian,
ped together at Windsor Castle,

Following his release, Alfredo Rodriguez was arrested again. :
He appeared in court on June 18, 2010, facing charges of cor %
ruptly concealing records and documents. Dressed in a blue ©
jumpsuit and shackles, he apologized for his crimes and asked |
the court to be merciful. ,
He received a sentence of eighteen months.
It was the same punishment that Jeffrey Epstein had gotten
for his crimes. But unlike Epstein, Alfredo Rodriguez served his”
time in a federal prison and did not ask for, or receive, permis: |

sion to go on work release.

2:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022027
