Ort nD oO SF Ww DH bP

A. Clockwork.

Q. So we would look at when the Clockwork group
was brought into this and the Epstein case was used
then and then we would look at the payroll records to
see whether Mr. Edwards got a bonus after the
Clockwork group was brought into the Ponzi scheme,
correct?

A. From a timing perspective, yes. But
Mr. Edwards had nothing to do with the Ponzi scheme,
nor was he rewarded even surreptitiously without his
knowledge for he helping me with the Ponzi scheme. If he
was rewarded it was because he deserved, ] felt he
deserved a reward, having 2 nothing to do with the Ponzi
scheme. The bulk of this law firm had nothing to do
‘with the Ponzi scheme,

Q. 1] think you testified already, though, that
money was fundable in the firm, right? ] mean, you
know, illegal money was used for legitimate purposes,
correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. So, for example, investigations that
were done with the Epstein case, it's very possible
that legitimate Ponzi money was used to finance those
investigations?

A. I'd be guessing. It's certainly possible

Page 114)

en ee

because all the money went into a whole series of
pots, and if you look at, most of the pots were trust
accounts. If you look back, you look to see what my
CFO, who was also a co-conspirator was doing, she was
pulling the money from wherever she needed to to fund
whatever she needed to fund.

MR. LAVECCHIO: Off the record a second.

[Discussion off the record.]

BY MR. GOLDBERGER:

Q. Let me circle back to what you needed to
learn about the Epstein cases to help make your pitch
to the investors.

You talked about the manifest already,
correct, the flight manifest?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. What else did you want to learn about
the case or what else did you learn about the case so
that you were conversant when you spoke to the
investors about the Epstein case?

A. |] recall asking someone what the causes of
action were.

Q. Okay. Did you understand what they were?

A. J likely did at the time, ] don't remember
what they were now.

Q. Okay. Do you know which case we are talking

Page 1156

wort nm fF WNP

lO ©

NM PM MH NH NM FSF Ft

SSE REESE ATES RO EO I GGT GE RRA MRR a EN at
po pe yo i
Oe WN EF O

ves ~y
i

WF BWUNHrFOCOMHWU MATA OSPWNEF OW DWAIHADTSBWNEH

 eareguesannmenninern are ttaneeaanereeretee ceasaiy ieee ee we resemraman pmeR eS RRR TS ht RS MEMES MINS AGAMA RRS ASR ER RE NR ANPP PRI PR ON AEN
NNONNNNEFPHPRPRP EPP PPB

about? By the way, you had a number of Epstein cases
in-house, do you know which case you were talking
about?

A. As] sit here today, no, sir, ] don't
remember.

Q. Was it a state case or a federal case?

A. J don’t remember one way or the other.

Q. All right.

A. Jutilized all those boxes all together. ]
don't remember which one |] sold them.

Q. And the exhibits --

A. It's something completely fictitious that J
made up that ] told them.

Q. The exhibit that you were shown earlier,
Exhibit Number 1, that's the long multi-page federal
lawsuit. Do you know whether that was part of the
information that you reviewed or shown to the
investors when you were pitching to them?

A. J] donot remember one way or the other.

Q. Okay. Now, did you make any effort to learn
from your co-conspirator who the plaintiffs were in
this case, what kind of women they were?

A, Only that they were underage.

Q. Did anyone tell you that these women had --

some of these women n had a history of p a history of prostitution?
Page 116]

A. They may have told me that, 1] wouldn't have
cared one way or the other,

Q. Why would you not have cared about that,
Mr. Rothstein?

A. Ithad nothing to do with the sale of the
Ponzi scheme settlements.

Q. Okay. Were you told by anyone whether any
of the women involved as plaintiffs in the case may
have worked at adult clubs in the past? I mean strip
clubs, let's call it what it is.

A. | may have been told that one way or the
other. But again, it had nothing to do with the Ponzi
scheme sale of fake settlements.

Q. As part of the information that you were
told by you co-conspirator, Russel] Adler, were you
told that some of the plaintiffs that you had in-house
had travelled on Mr. Epstein’s airplane?

A. I believe Russ did tel] me that.

Q. You know, in fact, that that was not true,
correct?

A. Ihave no idea one way or the other, nor did
] care.

Q. But your co-conspirator told you that,
right?

A. Mr. Adler did, in fact, tell me that certain

Page 117

30 (Pages 114 to 117)

FRIEDMAN, LOMBARD] & OLSON

305-371-6677
5ed93085-0554-447f-bedd-ca2d8fe941 df

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017519
