social calibration -- increasing one's capacity to read social situations -- as well as
inner game and being attractive by improving oneself will generally be a positive good.
Indeed, it could be argued that no PUA tactics are inherently abusive, but some are more
obviously susceptible to being used badly... the same way a sword is more obviously
susceptible to evil usage than a table.

Previous feminist writers have usually preferred to complain about the seduction
community's misogyny rather than examining the community deeply. I have been more
interested to see whether I could understand and make use of the positive PUA theories.
Understanding the Darth Vader types might be useful, too. There is a percentage of
PUAs who are non-consensually hurting women, and if we learn how those men do it, we
might also figure out how to disarm them.

I must acknowledge that I eventually felt that the community was damaging, poisonous,
and unhealthy for me -- to the extent that I needed to get out and detox. (PUA detox is a
recognized phenomenon even among some PUAs... and former PUAs.) However, there
are truths within it that are both intriguing and important.

I have never quite erased my fear of having my feminist card revoked, although it is not
clear how feminists -- a fractious group if ever there was one -- could withdraw my
presence in the movement. There is no Central Standards Bureau for feminists. Perhaps
inevitably, the feminist reaction to Confessions of a Pickup Artist Chaser was quite
mixed... although some other feminists appear to agree that there are important and
interesting things to learn from PUAs about gender, culture, and feminist consent models.

An overall lesson here might be that thinkers with a lot in common are increasingly
isolated from each other through the accelerating Balkanization of detailed, insular,
interest-based subcultures. Like the drive towards interdisciplinary research in academia,
perhaps a kind of interdisciplinary subcultural approach is being developed by those of us
more interested in building bridges than burning them.

te ok ok

This can be found on the Internet at:

http://clarissethorn.com/blog/2012/02/27/feminist-sm-lessons-from-the-seduction-

community/

S&M:
[storytime] The Strange Binary of Dominance and Submission

I wrote this in early 2012, and it was originally published at RoleReboot.org. If I had to
summarize my relationship with this gentleman today, then ironically enough, I'd say that
it got complicated and I'm pretty sure it's over now. I still like this piece, though.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018673
