4.2.12
WC: 191694

galleries. Their exposure to culture was limited to things Jewish—cantorial recitations, Yiddish
theater, lectures by Orthodox rabbis, Jewish museums, Catskill Mountain and Miami Beach
entertainment.

My adult life has been dramatically different. I travel the globe, meet with world leaders, own a
nice art collection, am deeply involved in the world of music, theater and other forms of culture,
and lead a largely secular life (though I too enjoy cantorial music “borsht belt” humor, and a good
pastrami sandwich).

Yet I am their son and grandson. Although my life has taken a very different course—both
personally and professionally—I could not begin to explain who I am, how I got to be who I am,
and where I am heading, without exploring my family background and heritage. It is this history
that helped to form me, that caused me to react against parts of it, and—most important—that
gave me the tools necessary to choose which aspects of my traditions to accept and which to
reject.”

I had a very powerful upbringing, having been born to a family with strong views on religion,
morality, politics and community service. My neighborhood was tight knit. Everyone had a place
and knew their place. Status was important, especially for our parents and grandparents, as was
“yichus” (the Yiddish term for ancestry). But I grew up at a time of change, growth, excitement
and opportunity.

Despite the reality of pervasive anti-Jewish discrimination—in college admission, employment,
residency and social clubs—my generation believed there were no limits to what we could
accomplish. If Jackie Robinson could play second base for the Brooklyn Dodgers, we could do
anything. Maybe that was the reason so many successful people grew up in Brooklyn in the
immediate post-war period. (In 1971, I was selected among 40 young scholars from around the
country for a distinguished fellowship. When we met in Palo Alto, California, we discovered
close to half the group had Brooklyn roots!) We were the breakout generation, standing on the
broad shoulders and backbreaking work of our immigrant grandparents and our working class
parents.

I cannot explain, indeed understand, my own world views, without describing those on whose
shoulders I stand, that from which I have broken out, and the experiences that have shaped my
life. So I will begin at the beginning, with my earliest memories and the stories I have been told
about my upbringing.

But formative experiences do not end at childhood or adolescence. They continue throughout a
lifetime. Learning never ends, at least for those with open minds and hearts, and, though
ideologies may remain relatively fixed over time, they adapt to changing realities and perceptions.
Winston Churchill famously quipped, “Show me a young conservative and I’ll show you someone
with no heart. Show me an old liberal and I’ll show you someone with no brain.” It is surely true
that some people become less idealistic with age, with economic security and family
responsibilities. But it is equally true that some young conservatives become more liberal as they

° My dear friend and teaching colleague Steven Pinker believes that parental influence may be overvalued [CITE].
I’m certain that it varies among individuals and families.

9

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017096
