Overweight US Energy Infrastructure Master
Limited Partnerships (MLPs): We initiated a
direct allocation to energy MLPs in late January
2016 and have maintained that tilt. Given our
assumptions about oil prices, we believe that the
cash distributions from MLPs are generally secure
and provide a yield to investors of just over 7%.
In the absence of any valuation changes, the yield
translates into a high single-digit tax-advantaged
return. Any growth in cash flow distribution or
improvements in valuation relative to the S&P 500
would provide some upside.

Overweight Spanish Equities: We maintain an
overweight to Spanish equities on a currency-
hedged basis. This tactical tilt was introduced in
August 2013, and we have adjusted the size of
the overweight about a dozen times since. Spanish
equities offer some of the cheapest valuations
across the developed markets, attractive dividend
yields, expected earnings growth of 4.6%, aided
by healthy domestic growth, and a particularly
well-capitalized® banking sector that has a lower
nonperforming loan ratio than the Eurozone bank
average. Furthermore, Spain is unlikely to face the
same political uncertainty as Germany, France and
Italy in 2017. We expect high single-digit returns
for Spanish equities.

Short Five-Year German Bunds: We recommend

a short position in five-year German bunds as

the ECB embarks upon the process of shifting

its monetary policy. After the December 2016
meeting, the ECB announced that it would reduce
its monthly purchases of bonds from €80 billion to
€60 billion starting in March 2017 and continuing
through December 2017. We expect the ECB to
end all purchases sometime in 2018, barring any
shocks. As a result, we think interest rates for
Eurozone sovereign debt will rise gradually over
the course of the year, which in the case of German
bunds means they will become less negative. We
expect a modest 2% return from this tilt.

Short Chinese Renminbi: We have increased our
bearish position on the Chinese renminbi over

the course of 2016. China is under pressure from
multiple sides: the need for loose monetary policy
to achieve the leadership’s 6.5% target GDP
growth rate, 32 months of capital outflows that
have accelerated in late 2016, a strong dollar and
an incoming Trump administration that will likely

pursue a US-centric policy toward China. Risks are
exacerbated by the leadership’s lack of experience
in handling financial market volatility, as evidenced
by China’s policy response to its equity market
collapse in June 2015 and its approach to shifting
the currency regime to a more flexible one in
August 2015 and January 2016. We expect the
currency to depreciate about 7% in 2017; since
4% is already priced in the forward markets, we
expect a return of about 3%. There is considerable
scope for further upside from this tilt if China
abandons its current control of the currency,

a move that could lead to depreciation in the
renminbi of about 20%.

Our tactical tilts are based on above-trend growth
of 2.3% in the US, global growth of 2.9%,
generally favorable monetary policy and more
stimulative fiscal policy across developed and
emerging market countries. We expect returns to
be muted across asset classes, resulting in modest
returns in a diversified portfolio with a modest
enhancement from tactical tilts. Of course, our
views are not without risks. As we discuss below,
some are low-probability risks with the potential
for high impact while others are high-probability
risks with low impact potential.

The Risks to Our Outlook

When we think about the risks to our economic
and financial market outlook, we are reminded of
the words of French writer Jean-Baptiste Alphonse
Karr: Plus ca change, plus c’est la méme chose—the
more things change, the more they stay the same.
This year’s list of risks overlaps with those of the
last several years. As far back as 2011, investors
have worried about a hard landing in China. From
the inception of the European sovereign debt
crisis in 2010 through the Brexit vote in 2016, the
potential breakup of the Eurozone has been a source
of concern. As soon as the Federal Reserve raised
the federal funds rate in December 2015, investors
worried about tightening policy causing a recession.
Cybersecurity and terrorism are constant threats.
And geopolitical risks have grown over time. This
year, we are adding trade policy uncertainty and US-
China geopolitical relations as new risks.

As we said in our 2013 Outlook, there is no
shortage of concerns as markets climb a wall
of worry. In our view, there are eight risks that

Outlook | Investment Strategy Group 25

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014558
