171

the country in 1994. Since entering government, Yang “has been a central figure
promoting and helping to shape the New Zealand National government’s China
strategy” and was a member of the Parliamentary Select Committee for Foreign Affairs,
Defense, and Trade from 2014 to 2016, which would have given him privileged access
to information.*

Chinese influence efforts targeted toward New Zealand politics transcend the diaspora
community to include campaign contributions and the cultivation of relationships with
former senior officials. Individuals with strong ties to United Front organizations have
donated several million dollars, primarily to the National Party. One such individual, who
donated $112,000 to the National Party in 2017, is listed as an officer of no fewer than
seven United Front organizations.® Senior politicians who have secured high-profile roles
in Chinese companies include a former party leader and members of Parliament who
serve on the boards of the New Zealand affiliates of major Chinese banks. A former
minister of finance serves on the board of a majority-Chinese-owned New Zealand
dairy. In late September, a former prime minister who now represents an American
company’s interests in China attracted attention for the sale of property “well above
market rates” to an undisclosed Chinese buyer. Local politicians have also been
targeted.

Business

Chinese companies have also been instruments of interference in New Zealand. After
acquiring a stake in a local telecom company in 2011, Chinese telecom giant Huawei
went on to win the contract to build New Zealand’s 4G wireless network in 2013.
Huawei also established research partnerships and other investments in the country
that may be leveraged for nonbusiness purposes. In another instance, New Zealand
aeronautics company Pacific Aerospace in 2014 partnered with Beijing Automotive
Group on the sale of planes to the Chinese market. In 2017, Pacific Aerospace was
charged by New Zealand Customs with knowingly and illegally exporting parts to
North Korea via its Chinese partner.

Universities

New Zealand has long-standing scientific cooperation agreements with China, most
of which are benign. However, since China renewed an emphasis on civil-military
research integration in 2015, New Zealand, like other countries hosting major
research institutions, has been targeted for its potential to further these aims. New
Zealand universities have partnerships with several Chinese universities linked to
China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA), including the PLA Institute of Military
Culture (Massey); the National University of Defense Technology (Auckland, Massey);
Northwestern Polytechnical University (Canterbury), Shenyang Aerospace University

Appendix 2

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020630
