Freedom House

EVERY INDICATOR HAS DECLINED OVER THE PAST 10 YEARS

Electoral Pluralism and Functioning of Expression and Association and

Process* Participation | Government*

Personal and

Assembly* Rule of Law Individual Rights

Change in Score, 2007-2016

©
o
I
I
I
1
1

Ce eee

*Denotes indicators scored ona 12-point scale. All others are scored on a 16-point scale.

illiberal governments in countries like Hungary
for their rejection of international democratic
standards in favor of perceived national inter-
ests. Even when there is no direct collaboration,
such behavior benefits authoritarian powers by
breaking down the unity and solidarity of the
democratic world.

¢ There has been arise in authoritarian inter-
nationalism. Authoritarian powers form loose
but effective alliances to block criticism at the
United Nations and regional organizations like
the Organization for Security and Co-operation
in Europe and the Organization of American
States, and to defend embattled allies like Syria's
Bashar al-Assad. There is also growing replica-
tion of what might be called authoritarian best
practices, vividly on display in the new Chinese
law on nongovernmental organizations (NGOs)
and efforts by Russia and others to learn from
China's experience in internet censorship.

Modern authoritarians are working to revalidate
the concept of the leacer-for-life. One of the
seeming gains of the postcommunist era was
the understanding that some form of term limits
should be imposed to prevent incumbents from
consolidating power into a dictatorship. In re-
cent years, however, a number of countries have
adjusted their constitutions to ease, eliminate,
or circumvent executive term limits. The result
has been a resurgence of potential leaders-for-
life from Latin America to Eurasia.

While more subtle and calibrated methods of re-
pression are the defining feature of modern au-
thoritarianism, the past few years have featured
a reemergence of older tactics that undermine
the illusions of pluralism and openness as well
as integration with the global economy. Thus
Moscow has pursued its military intervention in
Ukraine despite economic sanctions and over-
seen the assassination of opposition figures;

www.freedomhouse.org

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019237
