By the time I'd gotten incrementally better as a cartoonist in the first half of the 1970s I was regularly
doing _ illustrations for soft-core fiction stories =in Cavalier's low-rent __ sister
mags, Dude, Gent and Nugget (even wrote a story or two there and got several of my San Francisco
comix cronies (Spain Rodriguez, Bill Griffith and Justin Greene) illustration gigs with Alan for those

mags as well.

I was first invited into the mag to do two full-color comix pages in 1969 (when being printed in color
was a Very Big Deal for me as was Getting Paid more than 25 bucks for a drawing), somehow in
proximity to a big article on underground comix. They were running some Crumb “Fritz the Cat”
pages. All thanx to their hip, laid back and kind editor LeMond. I also did some gag cartoons, short
strips and occasional illustrations for Cavalier (one especially bad drawing for a story by Bruce Jay

Friedman).

My work in 1969, as an apprentice underground cartoonist taking too many drugs was really, really
awful so I'm grateful for the editor's hip and laid-back kindness. By the time I'd gotten incrementally
better as a cartoonist in the first half of the 1970s I was regularly doing illustrations for soft-core
fiction stories, even wrote a story or two there and got several of my S.F. comix cronies (Spain

Rodriguez, Bill Griffith and Justin Greene) illustration gigs with Alan for those mags as well.

[Note in Wikipedia: Maus is a graphic novel by American cartoonist Art Spiegelman,
serialized from 1980 to 1991. It depicts Spiegelman interviewing his father about his experiences
as a Polish Jew and Holocaust survivor. The work employs postmodernist techniques and

represents Jews as mice, Germans as cats, and Poles as pigs. In 1992, Maus won a Pulitzer Prize. ]
COMiING AND GOING

I wrote some movie reviews for Cavalier. I recall that Midnight Cowboy was 50 years ago. I
always went to two screenings. The first one I would go stoned with magic mushrooms. The

second one I took notes. However, I got fired by Cavalier.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024927
