Saudi and Iran, powerhouses of Sunni and Shiite Islam respectively,
presently support opposing sides in many of the Middle East’s major
confrontations, and are often seen as having radically divergent and
competing visions for the future of the region.

Which is why, in Lebanon — a country where the two powers wield
extensive influence over their respective allies — the news of a possible
rapprochement has already sparked confidence that political deadlock on a
number of key disputes may be resolved, perhaps even defying
expectations of a presidential vacuum by ushering in a successor to
President Michel Suleiman in time for the expiry of his term on 25 May.

“T [now] believe we will have an elected president on the 25th,” said MP
Ahmad Fatfat of the Saudi-supported Future Movement. “That [Prince
Faisal’s] invitation was public means they already agreed on many points
under the table. That means the negotiations regarding the new president
have already been done.”

Beyond the elections, Fatfat added the talks would likely also yield wider
benefits in terms of security and the economy. Earlier this week, Saudi
lifted what has been described as an “unofficial ban” on its citizens
traveling to Lebanon, fueling hopes of a boost to the country’s struggling
tourism industry. Saudi analysts concurred that the overall situation in
Lebanon would likely improve in the near future.

“T think in Lebanon there is already agreement [between Saudi and Iran],”
said Jamal Khashoggi, veteran Saudi journalist and former advisor to then-
ambassador Prince Turki al-Faisal. “The agreement in Lebanon is to
contain the situation.”

In neighboring Syria, however, where Iranian-backed regime forces
continue to suppress a Saudi-supported armed rebellion, Khashoggi
expects very little to materialize from Saudi-Iranian talks.

“I’m not optimistic,” he told NOW. “The Saudis and Iranians are still far
apart. The Iranians must relinquish their expansionism toward the
Mediterranean, or we have to give up Syria. And I don’t think we can
afford to give up Syria. And besides, even if we decide to give up Syria,
the Syrian people are not going to give up Syria.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031573
