LEDA has been very successful. Of the 500 or so students who have graduated from the program, three quarters have gone
on to top-tier colleges, 30 percent of them to the lvy League. Among LEDA’s 2012 graduates alone, 19 gained admission to
Princeton, 11 to Georgetown and 6 to the University of Pennsylvania.

Last week | took a walk around Red Hook, Brooklyn, with Joshua El-Bey, a LEDA graduate who was leaving in a few days
for his sophomore year at Yale. His family struggled as he grew up, moving often and ultimately landing in the Red Hook
Houses, the borough’s largest public housing development. His first memories of book learning, he told me, were the
readings his mother delivered from Genesis when he was 2. What was disconcerting about Mr. El-Bey’s otherwise incredibly
inspiring trajectory was how much of his success had depended on opportunities outside the public education system.

Bullied in middle school for his studiousness, Mr. El-Bey hoped to gain admission to one of the city’s elite specialized public
high schools, but he did not do well enough on the entrance exam. The free tutoring provided by the city for the test was
insufficient, he said.

He ended up at Edward R. Murrow in Midwood, Brooklyn, a good school whose academics were nevertheless surpassed by
the supplemental training he received as a scholar at Sponsors for Educational Opportunity, an organization begun 50
years ago by Manhattan lawyers and advertising executives as a mentoring program to get poor minority students into good
colleges. Today it essentially provides a shadow education. In school, Mr. El-Bey told me, he simply learned to “regurgitate
facts.”

Programs like LEDA and S.E.O. are popular with wealthy, supremely educated donors, precisely because of outcomes like
Mr. El-Bey’s. Just this May, the financier Henry R. Kravis pledged $4 million in matching gifts to S.E.O.

And in acity as dense with talent and money as New York, the effects of such philanthropy can be effortlessly observed.
Walking through his neighborhood, Mr. El-Bey ran into another alumnus of S.E.O., Luis Hernandez, who was about to begin
his freshman year at the University of Southern California. In a precocious accomplishment more typical in other
neighborhoods, Mr. Hernandez had won a screenwriting contest for a film about obesity that had already made its debut on
the Showtime cable channel.

As a society we have begun to pay increasing and essential attention to gaining access to the top, but the brightest among
us might do well to apply equal focus to how we might enhance the middle.

Most students, rich or poor, will not go to Harvard, while plenty of working-class and poor students will go to colleges that
serve them not nearly well enough. Notlong ago, our son’s caregiver, who is taking classes at LaGuardia Community
College in Queens, showed me a paper she had written for a class in English composition taught by a teacher who was
consistently late and twice absent. It was on Ibsen’s “A Doll’s House” and my husband had helped her. It incisively analyzed
the play’s theme of 19th-century marital oppression and was impeccably written.

When our nanny received her grade, she was shocked not to have done as well as she had expected. Her formatting had
been imprecise, the teacher told her. And there was a problem with spacing. Content seemed not to matter much at all.

Back to top

Obama goes for college ‘datapalooza’
Nick Anderson — Washington Post

In President Obama’s plan to overhaul higher education, which envisions using new federal ratings of colleges to determine
levels of student aid, there is a deep faith in the power of information and innovation to catalyze change in colleges and
universities.

Ultimately, the belief is that these forces will make college more affordable.

Yet academia has witnessed and taken partin many waves of innovation in the past half-century, and affordability remains
elusive.

The administration’s faith is encapsulated in a word the White House used this week in a fact sheet about the plan:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028641
