Glossary

Accountable Care Organization (ACO) -
A health system model with the ability to
provide, and manage with patients, the
continuum of care across different
institutional settings, including at least
ambulatory (outpatient) and inpatient
hospital care and possibly post acute care.
ACOs have the capability of planning
budgets and resources and are of sufficient
size to support comprehensive, valid, and
reliable performance measurement. The
ACO model is one of the latest designs for
managing healthcare costs and especially
Medicare costs, and is gaining traction
among policymakers desperate to control
costs and boost quality in healthcare.

Accrual accounting - A system of
accounting in which revenues are recorded
when they are earned and outlays are
recorded when goods are received or
services are performed, even though the
actual receipt of revenues and payment for
goods or services may occur, in whole or in
part, at a different time. Compare with cash
accounting.

Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) - All income
that is subject to taxation under the
individual income tax after above-the-line
deductions for such things as alimony
payments and certain contributions to
individual retirement accounts. Personal
exemptions and the standard or itemized
deductions are subtracted from AGI to
determine taxable income

www.kpcb.com

Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) - A tax
intended to limit the extent to which higher-
income people can reduce their tax liability
(the amount they owe) through the use of
preferences in the tax code. Taxpayers
subject to the AMT are required to
recalculate their tax liability on the basis of a
more limited set of exemptions, deductions,
and tax credits than would normally apply.
The amount by which a taxpayer’s AMT
calculation exceeds his or her regular tax
calculation is that person’s AMT liability.

American Recovery and Reinvestment
Act of 2009 (ARRA) - This act provided
appropriations for several federal programs
and increased or extended some benefits
payable under Medicaid, unemployment
compensation, and nutrition assistance,
among others. ARRA also reduced
individual and corporate income taxes and
made other changes to tax laws.

Asset-Backed Security - Security backed
by real estate or another type of asset; a
claim on an income flow, such as expected
interest payments on loans, payments on
leases, royalty payments, or receivables; a
claim on the principal of a loan; or a claim on
the expected appreciation of an asset.

Automatic Stabilizers - Taxes that
decrease and expenditures that increase
when the economy goes into a recession
(and vice-versa when the economy booms)
without requiring any action on the part of
the government. Stabilizers tend to reduce
the depth of recessions and dampen booms.

USAInc. xix

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021076
