10

GQLDMAN

he Jarvanka side of the White House increasingly felt that rumors leaked by Bannon
| and his allies were undermining them. Jared and Ivanka, ever eager to enhance their
status as the adults in the room, felt personally wounded by these backdoor attacks.
Kushner, in fact, now believed Bannon would do anything to destroy them. This was
personal. After months of defending Bannon against liberal media innuendo, Kushner had
concluded that Bannon was an anti-Semite. That was the bottom-line issue. This was a
complicated and frustrating business—and quite hard to communicate to his father-in-law
—hbecause one of Bannon’s accusations against Kushner, the administration’s point person
on the Middle East, was that he was not nearly tough enough in his defense of Israel.

After the election, the Fox News anchor Tucker Carlson with sly jocularity privately
pointed out to the president that by offhandedly giving the Israel portfolio to his son-in-
law—who would, Trump said, make peace in the Middle East—he hadn’t really done
Kushner any favors.

“IT know,” replied Trump, quite enjoying the joke.

Jews and Israel were a curious Trump subtext. Trump’s brutish father was an often
vocal anti-Semite. In the split in New York real estate between the Jews and non-Jews, the
Trumps were clearly on the lesser side. The Jews were white shoe, and Donald Trump,
even more than his father, was perceived as a vulgarian—after all, he put his name on his
buildings, quite a déclassé thing to do. (Ironically, this proved to be a significant advance
in real estate marketing and, arguably, Trump’s greatest accomplishment as a developer—
branding buildings.) But Trump had grown up and built his business in New York, the
world’s largest Jewish city. He had made his reputation in the media, that most Jewish of
industries, with some keen understanding of media tribal dynamics. His mentor, Roy
Cohn, was a demimonde, semiunderworld, tough-guy Jew. He courted other figures he
considered “tough-guy Jews” (one of his accolades): Carl Icahn, the billionaire hedge
funder; Ike Perlmutter, the billionaire investor who had bought and sold Marvel Comics;
Ronald Perelman, the billionaire Revlon chairman; Steven Roth, the New York billionaire
real estate tycoon; and Sheldon Adelson, the billionaire casino magnate. Trump had

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019989
