purchase order. Our meetings were now no more than five minutes long.

From this moment forward, resolve to keep those around you focused and avoid all meetings, whether
in person or remote, that do not have clear objectives. It is possible to do this tactfully, but expect that
some time wasters will be offended the first few times their advances are rejected. Once it is clear that
remaining on task is your policy and not subject to change, they will accept it and move on with life.
Hard feelings pass. Don’t suffer fools or you'll become one.

It is your job to train those around you to be effective and efficient. No one else will do it for you.
Here are a few recommendations:

1. Decide that, given the non-urgent nature of most issues, you will steer people toward the following
means of communication, in order of preference: e-mail, phone, and in-person meetings. If someone
proposes a meeting, request an e-mail instead and then use the phone as your fallback offer if need be.
Cite other immediately pending work tasks as the reason.

2. Respond to voicemail via e-mail whenever possible. This trains people to be concise. Help them
develop the habit.

Similar to our opening greeting on the phone, e-mail communication should be streamlined to prevent
needless back-and-forth. Thus, an e-mail with “Can you meet at 4:00 P.M.?” would become “Can you
meet at 4:00 P.M.? If so If not, please advise three other times that work for you.”

This “if ... then” structure becomes more important as you check e-mail less often. Since I only check
e-mail once a week, it is critical that no one needs a “what if?” answered or other information within
seven days of a given e-mail I send. If I suspect that a manufacturing order hasn’t arrived at the shipping
facility, for example, [Il send an e-mail to my shipping facility manager along these lines: “Dear Susan
... Has the new manufacturing shipment arrived? If so, please advise me on ... If not, please contact John
Doe at 555-5555 or via e-mail at john@doe.com (he is also CC’d) and advise on delivery date and
tracking. John, if there are any issues with the shipment, please coordinate with Susan, reachable at 555—
4444, who has the authority to make decisions up to $500 on my behalf. In case of emergency, call me
on my cell phone, but I trust you two. Thanks.” This prevents most follow-up questions, avoids two
separate dialogues, and takes me out of the problem-solving equation.

Get into the habit of considering what “if ... then” actions can be proposed in any e-mail where you
ask a question.

3. Meetings should only be held to make decisions about a predefined situation, not to define the
problem. If someone proposes that you meet with them or “set a time to talk on the phone,” ask that
person to send you an e-mail with an agenda to define the purpose:

That sounds doable. So I can best prepare, can you please send me an e-mail with an agenda? That is,
the topics and questions we’ll need to address? That would be great. Thanks in advance.

Don’t give them a chance to bail out. The “thanks in advance” before a retort increases your chances
of getting the e-mail.

The e-mail medium forces people to define the desired outcome of a meeting or call. Nine times out
of ten, a meeting is unnecessary and you can answer the questions, once defined, via e-mail. Impose this
habit on others. I haven’t had an in-person meeting for my business in more than five years and have had
fewer than a dozen conference calls, all lasting less than 30 minutes.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013859
