If you’d like to record the actions on your screen for video tutorials, both of these free programs will get
the job done. If you need advanced editing features, Jing’s big brother Camtasia is the industry standard
(www.camtasia.com).

Licensing Ideas to Others for Royalties

> InventRight ( www.inventright.com_) (800-701-7993)

Stephen Key is the most consistently successful inventor [’ve ever met, with millions in royalties from
companies like Disney, Nestlé, and Coca-Cola. He is not high-tech but specializes in creating simple
products, or improving on existing products, and then licensing (renting) his ideas to large corporations.
He comes up with the idea, files a provisional patent for less than $200, and then lets another company
do the work while he collects checks. This site introduces his fail-proof process for doing the same. His
techniques for cold-calling alone are invaluable. Highly recommended.

»Guthy-Renker Corporation (www.guthyrenker.com) (760-773-9022) GRC is the 800-pound
infomercial gorilla. It brings in more than $1.3 billion per year in sales with mega-hits like Tony
Robbins, Proactiv Solution, and Winsor Pilates. Don’t expect more than a 2-4% royalty if you make the
cut, but the numbers are huge enough to make it worth a look. Submit your product online.

Searching Patents for Unexploited Ideas to Turn into Products

e » United States Patent and Trademark Office (www.uspto.gov)
(800-786-9199)

e» lLicensable Technologies Developed at Universities § (
www.autm.net _; see “view all listings” under “Technology
Transfer Offices” )

e » Inventors Groups and Associations (call and ask if members
have anything to license) (

Wwww.uiausa.org/Resources/InventorGroups.htm

Becoming an Expert

»Prof Net via PR Leads (www.prleads.com) and HARO (www.helpareporterout.com)

Receive daily leads from journalists and TV and radio producers looking for experts to cite and interview
for media ranging from local outlets to CNN and the New York Times. Stop swimming upstream and
start responding to stories people are already working on. HARO offers select leads at no cost, and you

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013905
