were two contradictory theories here: he had hidden these dealings because he didn’t want
to admit their paucity, or he had hidden them to mask their disreputableness.) Because
Trump is less than creditworthy, Foer was among many who concluded that Trump needed
to turn to other sources—more or less dirty money, or money with other sorts of strings
attached. (One way the process can work is, roughly speaking, as follows: an oligarch
makes an investment in a more or less legitimate third-party investment fund, which, quid
pro quo, makes an investment in Trump.) And while Trump would categorically deny that
he had any loans or investments from Russia, one would, of course, not have dirty money
on one’s books.

As a subset of this theory, Trump—never very scrupulous about vetting his people—
surrounded himself with a variety of hustlers working their own deals, and, plausibly,
aiding Trump’s deals. Foer identified the following characters as part of a possible Russian
conspiracy:

¢ Tevfik Arif, a former Rus sian official who ran the Bayrock Group, a middleman in
Trump financings with an office in Trump Tower.

¢ Felix Sater (sometimes spelled Satter), a Russian-born immigrant to Brighton Beach
in Brooklyn, who had previously served time in prison in connection with a fraud at
a Mafia-run brokerage and who went to work for Bayrock and had a business card
identifying him as senior adviser to Donald Trump. (When Sater’s name later
continued to surface, Trump assured Bannon he didn’t know Sater at all.)

* Carter Page, a banker of uncertain portfolio who had spent time in Russia and billed
himself as having advised the state-run oil company, Gazprom, and who showed up
on a hastily assembled list of Trump foreign policy advisers and who, it would turn
out, the FBI was closely monitoring in what it said was a Russian intelligence effort
to turn him. (Trump would later deny ever meeting Page, and the FBI would say that
it believed Russian intelligence had targeted Page in an effort to turn him.)

¢ Michael Flynn, the former head of the Defense Intelligence Agency—fired by
Obama for unclear reasons—who had yet to emerge as Trump’s key foreign policy
counselor and future National Security Advisor, but who was accompanying him on
many campaign trips and who earlier in the year had been paid a $45,000 speaking
fee in Moscow and been photographed sitting at a dinner with Putin.

¢ Paul Manafort, whom, along with serving as Trump’s campaign manager, Foer
highlighted as a political operative and consultant who had generated substantial
income advising Kremlin-backed Viktor Yanukovych, who successfully ran for the
presidency of Ukraine in 2010, was later deposed in 2014, and had been in business
with the Russian oligarch and Putin crony Oleg Deripaska.

More than a year later, each of these men would be part of the near-daily Russia-Trump
news cycle.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019960
