86 CASSELL ET AL. [Vol. 104

right.'°° The reason for adopting such a broad right was that “[t]oo often
victims of crime experience a secondary victimization at the hands of the
criminal justice system. This provision is intended to direct Government
agencies and employees, whether they are in the executive or judiciary
branch, to treat victims of crime with the respect they deserve.”!°° OLC’s
failure to consider the purposes underlying the CVRA is a glaring
oversight.

OLC never attempts to explain why the CVRA’s drafters would want
victims to have a right to fair treatment once criminal charges were filed but
possess no such right before the filing of criminal charges. Clearly, many
victims can and do suffer secondary victimization during criminal
investigations, such as when sexual assault victims are treated
inappropriately by law enforcement agents.'°’ It would contradict the
purpose of preventing victim mistreatment in the criminal justice system to
artificially limit the right to fairness to the point at which charges are filed.
The night to fairness logically applies at all stages of the criminal justice
process.

C. OLC’S INEFFECTIVE RESPONSE TO THE CVRA’S COVERAGE AND
VENUE PROVISIONS

At the end of its memorandum, OLC finally discusses what it
identifies as the two strongest arguments for construing the CVRA as
applying before charging: the coverage provision and the venue provision.
OLC acknowledges, as it must, that the CVRA’s coverage extends to any
federal employee engaged in “the defection, investigation or prosecution of
crime.”'*’ Such employees “shall make their best efforts to see that crime
victims are notified of, and accorded, the rights” afforded by the statute.'°’
Notably, this duty applies to individuals not just in the Justice Department
(where all federal prosecutors are located) but other agencies as well, such

155 150 Cona. REc. 7303 (2004) (statement of Sen. Jon Kyl).

156 Iq

157 See SUSAN EstRICH, REAL Rape 50-51 (1987) (describing how a rape victim’s sexual
history may be used against her in court proceedings), Beloof, supra note 38, at 309-10
(collecting examples of victims’ issues that arise during the investigative process); see also
PRESIDENT’S TASK FORCE ON VICTIMS OF CRIME, FINAL REPORT, supra note 10, at 57-62 (making
recommendations for how police should treat victims during the criminal justice process).

158 OLC CVRA Rights Memo, supra note 2, at 15 (quoting 18 U.S.C. § 3771(c)(1)
(2012)) (internal quotation marks omitted).

1S 18 U.S.C. § 3771(c\1).

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014065
