KLC OpCo provides a wide range of quality programs that are continuously updated to reflect current
thinking and to meet the needs of individual children, Programs have been developed in conjunction with
nationally recognized experts in ECE and various curricula reflect the latest research in brain
development. Programs stimulate the social, emotional, intellectual and physical needs of children and
each program is age appropriate.

KLC OpCo's ECE facilities are generally open throughout the year, usually five days a week, from 6:30
a.m. to 6:30 p.m. New enrollments are most often highest in September and January, with the largest
decrease in enrollment during holiday periods and summer months. Many centers offer summer day
camp programs for children up to the age of 12. Additionally, many centers offer “back-up” care, which is
offered in the event that the parent's primary child care arrangement is unavailable {e.g., when an in-
home provider goes on vacation). The company will provide short-term child care until the parent's child
care resumes.

Community Centers

The 1,812 community centers are located in diverse demographic locations. Newly built centers tend to
be located in the targeted demographic market of newer upper-middle class to upper income suburban
areas with high concentrations of dual income families. In a community center, the current weekly tuition
rates for full-day service range from $90 to $400 per child, depending upon the center location and the
age of the child. KLC OpCo also offers tutorial programs in areas such as literacy, reading, foreign
languages and mathematics in many of its centers for a supplemental fee and is exploring offering
additional supplemental fee programs. Tuition is generally paid in advance on a weekly basis and, to a
lesser extent, on a monthly basis. The company typically sets tuition for half-day programs at a 20% to
40% premium compared with an equal number of hours for a full-day program. Approximately 20% of
tuition is paid under state and federal subsidy programs.

Employer-Sponsored Centers

As of FYE December 31, 2005, KLC OpCo operated 122 corporate or employer-sponsored centers.
These centers are typically free-standing, and are located at or near the premises or campus of the
employer-sponsor. These sites are different from community centers in that they usually have more
square footage per child and larger siaff areas. Generally, the corporate sponsor provides the
constructed building. KLC OpCo currently has relationships with a diverse group of employers, including
hospitals, health care facilities, government agencies, and private sector companies. Its corporate
relationships include, but are not limited to, the following: AOL Time Warner, TRW, Lockheed Martin, the
World Bank Group, Fox, Maytag, Northrop, TJ Maxx, the National Security Agency, the Mayo Clinic and
Stanford University.

Employer-sponsored centers are operated either on a fixed-fee basis (31 centers) or on a profit-and-loss
basis (91 centers). Under the former, KLC OpCo receives a fixed fee per monih, typically irrespective of
occupancy. In these contracts, the Company collects tuition on behalf of the employer sponsor. Under a
profit-and-loss contract, KLC OpCo collects tuition for its own account, generally with no guaranteed fees
from the employer. In some cases, Its operations are subsidized by the employer, typically in the form of
tuition subsidies, free or reduced rent, the provision of certain services such as maintenance, landscaping
and janitorial services or enrollment guarantees. This enables the company to utilize the subsidies for
improved staff quality and teacher / child ratios.

Contract terms typically average between one and five years. Normally the management centers are
reserved for children of the corporations’ employees. Some contracts provide for accepting non-
employee children, for which the company can often charge a higher tuition.

83

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024516
