etc). 18 debra and children ? current and future involvement . notifications etc. . new dynasty trust ? 19.
tax plan and dislosures gaming. foreign apollo and phaidon related . 20. investments rationalize incl
trading accouints .21. bank loans . rates ? ? terms etc. consolidate. plane boat houses. disclosures? 22
. consolidate and review and reduce the number of all bank accounts and legal entities. decanting
liquidating etc. . 23 all outside consultants? valuations etc. 24 review legal bills carefullly. 25. third
party responsibilty Bens house , alex films . etc.

ate: Fri, Dec 4, 2015 at 2:07 PM

Subject: Fwd: moving forward

To: Melanie Spinella iii! -

I had forgotten that Alan was actually at the table when i explained my note deal to you. _—it was at the
end of the meeting described below. . as you will recall , not once , not even a peep did alan suggest
contemporaneously his hand in the crafting, in fact brad said it was an idea. that HE brad, HAD HAD ,
from the begiining . my emails between alan and IJ that you can read , further confirm authorship. Im sure
you recall the obnoxious tooting when alan said he agreed with my plan. .

Date: Mon, Nov 2, 2015 at 10:03 PM

Subject: moving forward

To: Melanie Spinclla (iii

I have mixed emotions about what transpired today. really, You saw first hand in nauseating detail
what i have been saying to you for quite a while now. —_Joslins answers were totally incomprehensible.
the charts he prepared unreadable. Brads defensive posture was at a minum very surprising . He and I
have recently gotten along quite well , I thought . Neither Joslin or Brad understood a 180 million dollar
number . no cash flow after weeks of requesting? odd. when you suggested that heathers behavior was
emblematic of a sloppy office , brad said lets not talk about emblems??! bill pay , admittedly no change
for the year. . plane not done. though it was the only thing 1 suggested doing first in july. . I sent youa
list of 10 consultantts. brad said three, . 1 didnt want to push it. I was shocked that brad was opining on
things he knows little or nothing about. tax issues. 1031. neg basis , note payoffs ( the same idea he
said he had had from the beggining??!!) . answers re LBF holdings that can be corrected ( they cant) .
valuations that have never been read. . When we met in your lobby he seems surprised that i was there. I
dont know if he felt somewhat sandbagged. ..

the savings on the note payoff is aprrox 33 % of 1.8 billion. real money if you do phaidon which i see no
reason not to . if later josh and ben want to buy it back with you or without you they can. 1 will walk you
through the structure one on one. . the losses will offeset the calder gain as well as apollo gain.

Im aware that seeing what you saw frustrated you. I felt badly for you.

You wanted a contingent deal. real value. etc. I will not of course hold you to your deal . . its silly. its
not how 1 work or a reflection of our friendship. my proposal is as follows. I want away from your
buisiness , but at the same time leaving you in good shape. _ I think you should pay the 25m that you did
not for this year. for next year its the same 40 m as always, paid 20 in jan and 20 in july, and then we are
done. I will give you advice and counsel but new people will be running your operating machine. _I will
oversee all the work that needs to be done you and I will hire new people , and it will be self running. ( it
was may in my house when you told brad it had been 5 months and you were getting fed up ) I will set up
a parallel . office , somenoe like wendy dolman or her quality is paramount. two accountants two
bookeepers and two office admins. . alan and zoe will handle trusts and grats. heatehr diana george will
be incolved in art partnership. if you want brad, analysts etc. and kids to do investments I have little to
add in that regard ,except to be able to account for things properly. I suggest that the kids must have skin
in any deal.

Alternatively , we can continue to focus on fun and let someone else do the things that you want done.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023214
