This is the second time that I have responded to your questions online; the first time was eight years ago, when
Internet communications were still in the nascent stage -- although, I must say, Dubai and the United Arab
Emirates had already made noteworthy progress in this field. During that initial online interview, my objective
was to stimulate the interest of the Emirati community in the Internet when the use of the online
communications was relatively limited.

Today the usage of the Internet across the UAE has come to be taken for granted; in fact, the Web has been
adopted so extensively in both the public and private sectors that e-communications are the norm rather than the
exception. We see that a large segment of our society, especially young people, believe that the Internet is the
most important source of information, education and entertainment.

The UAE continues to lead the Arab world in adoption of information and communication technology
according to the annual global infor mation technology report released before yesterday.

Little wonder, then, that I get inundated with questions from citizens and media alike. That’s why I have chosen
to meet with you via my Web site. I think hosting this encounter online will allow all of you to ask as many
questions as you wish. In the last few days alone, I have received hundreds of questions from several local and
regional newspapers. Naturally, there was some overlapping of questions since they came from so many
different sources. Hence, I have tried to consolidate my answers in such a manner that I do not come across as
repetitious.

This “interview,” of course, relates to questions from the media, whose work I consider especially significant in
telling the story of how Dubai and the UAE are coping successfully with the global financial crisis, and how our
development plans are being advanced with the resilience and determination that has always characterized
Emirati society.

I have also received many questions from everyday Emiratis, and these will be answered in a subsequent
communication.

In the meantime, I hope my responses will generate positive discussion about the issues and values that Dubai
and the UAE care about — the strengthening ofa society that’s anchored in unique Emirati traditions, and the
continued building of a global city to which all are welcome, a city that is well integrated in the fast changing
global commons that we all must share. Dubai is not only a catalyst of change; it is an exemplar of change. And
I am proud of that, just as Iam proud of the economic and social contributions that Emiratis and their well-
wishers have made over these years to furthering the Dubai Vision.

Al Hayat Newspaper - Shafiq Al Asadi

Your Highness, Dubai, the famous city known for its outstanding experience on both
regional and international levels, has been recently criticized for its development
strategy in the light of the global financial crisis. How do you perceive this campaign and
how are you dealing with it?

Criticism and negative statements do not really disturb me. We do not mind receiving objective criticism that
helps us improving our services and methods. If there were negative aspects, then we will address them and
work toward revamping them. But following the global financial crisis, what we read and heard was not in
reference to the negative aspects. In fact it was a media bombardment targeted at the UAE as a model for a
federal state, a successful and prosperous Arab country. And Dubai, the city that has set up a successful
economic model at a global level, was under a daily attack by some Western media, as if they were in a race
against time to harm the UAE.

As for the motives of the campaign, God Almighty knows. But it seems that the success of the Arab, whether

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024931
