4.2.12
WC: 191694

helping their own people, and they have continued to try to help their people.

Elie Wiesel's work is far more universal. For example, those who have

suffered most in the former Yugoslavia have been the Croats and the Muslims. It
was they who Elie Wiesel risked his life to protect. Yet during the Holocaust,
which took the lives of 6 million of Wiesel's people, the Croats were among the
most barbarous hands-on perpetrators of genocide against Jewish babies, women
and men. The Islamic world has been in conflict with Elie Wiesel's people over
Israel, and many innocent Jews have been murdered by Islamic co-religionists of
Muslims who have been terrorized in Sarajevo. Yet, Wiesel makes no distinctions
based on religion, race, creed or even enmity against his own people. He will
bear witness, even at the risk of his life, to the suffering of any human

beings, so long as they are not the aggressors.

To be sure, Elie Wiesel speaks up on behalf of his people as well, with a
voice of unparalleled eloquence.

A great Jewish sage once wrote, If I am not for myself, who will be for me?
But if I am for myself alone what am I? And if not now, when? Elie Wiesel lives
by that tripartite philosophy. He is the voice of the Jewish people - their
international moral spokesman. But he speaks not for Jews alone; instead, he can
be counted to combat hatred and bigotry regardless of who the victims may be.
And for Elie Wiesel, tomorrow is never an excuse for not acting today.

Over the years, we have worked closely together on issues relating to Soviet dissidents, the
Armenian genocide, the massacres in Rwanda and Darfur, efforts to delegitimate Israel and other
human rights concerns. I have sought his advice on many occasions, and it has always been wise
and useful.

In 1982, Elie was asked to present me with the William O. Douglas Award by the Anti-
Defamation League. In presenting the award, he paid me the highest compliment: “If there had
been a few people like Alan Dershowitz during the 1930's and 1940's, the history of European
Jewry might have been different.” Although I have always believed that these words were highly
exaggerated—no one could have stopped Hitler’s maniacal determination to kill the Jews of
Europe—I have tried to hold myself up to his expectations of me. I recall his words every time I
think of slowing down or doing less to protect the victims of human rights abuses.

In 19 __, Elie and his wife, Marianne, invited me to their home in New York for an intimate dinner
with French President, Frangois Mitterrand. Elie and his wife speak fluent French but I do not
and neither did the two other couples at the dinner. Mitterrand spoke passable English but he
insisted on conducting the entire conversation in French, with a British translator at his side. At
one point, Mitterrand told a joke in French. None of the French speaking people at the table
laughed. His translator then repeated it in English and everyone laughed hysterically. I asked Elie

399

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017486
