The Original Big Short

The Amsterdam Stock Exchange, founded by the Dutch
East India Company in 1602, is recognized as the world’s
oldest stock exchange. It facilitated a secondary market to
trade stocks and gave rise to trading clubs during the mid-
17: century where speculators would congregate.
Messengers would rush to and from the exchange to
update pricing to customers.

In 1867, the invention of the stock-
ticker machine, also known as the
ticker tape, obviated the need for
messengers. Stock transaction data
was transmitted by telegraph to a
ticker tape that would continuously
print out abbreviated company
names (ticker symbols) followed by the price and volume
data. Thomas Edison later upgraded the system to reach
a printing speed of one character per second. Ticker tape
eliminated the need for messengers and allowed people to
trade in “real time” from long distance.

In 1900, 14 year-old Jesse Lauriston Livermore started
working as a quotation board boy in the Boston office of
Paine Webber. His job was to update the board with
information coming off the ticker tape. He became
interested in the behavior of stock prices and began
recording price movements that enabled him to spot
patterns prior to sizeable advances and declines. A fellow
office boy later talked him into speculating on a stock on
margin at a bucket shop. Two days later, Jesse sold the
position with a $3.12 profit. He soon quit his job and
started trading for a living.

Jesse made his first $1,000 (around $27,600 in today’s
dollars) at the age of 15. He was later banned by most
bucket shops in Boston as he had outfoxed many of the
shady operators. By the age of 20, he had accumulated
$10,000. Then came the big payday — the Panic of 1907 —
during which Jesse shorted the market and made $1
million ($25 million in today’s dollars). He would top this
feat and live up to the reputation as “The Great Bear of
Wall Street” by shorting the market in 1929 for an
astounding $100 million profit ($1.43 billion in 2017!),
making him one of the richest men in the world.

The combination of elevated
investor complacency and a

tightening Fed makes the

market vulnerable to a pullback.

Unfortunately, the concept of diversification probably
never crossed Jesse’s mind. He somehow managed to lose
all his money and was bankrupt by 1934. The bankruptcy
resulted in an automatic suspension of his membership
on the Chicago Board of Trade. In 1940, the legendary
trader, suffering from depression, shot himself in the
cloak room of Manhattan’s Sherry-Netherland Hotel.

Rise of the Machines

How things have changed from
those simpler days when humans
were doing the trading. Today,
with the advent of technology,
market activity is dominated by
passive and various quantitative
strategies. It is estimated that
fundamental discretionary investors now account for only
10% of the trading volume. Big inflow into major ETFs
prompted buying across the board regardless of company
specific issues and valuations. Big data and machine
learning are the new buzz words. Forbes recently featured
a quant fund run by three twenty-somethings. Their
assets under management was in the low tens of millions
of dollars, yet they averaged $1 billion in transactions, or
10,000 to 40,000 trades each day. Since there are only
86,400 seconds in a day, this fund would generate a trade
every 2.16 to 8.64 seconds if it worked around the clock.
Much of the decision making and trade execution, of
course, has been taken over by software algorithms. These
whiz kids employed statistical arbitrage trading strategies
in stocks and currencies, and closed out all trading
positions at the end of each day.

The allure of sophisticated computer models trouncing
their human competitors has continued to attract inflow
to quant funds. It is estimated that quantitative hedge
funds now manage more than $1 trillion, about one-third
of the $3 trillion hedge fund industry. While there are
indeed brilliant quant managers who have delivered
strong returns over a long period of time, the sheer size of
the industry means there are likely more pretenders than
contenders. Given that many funds employ similar
strategies (e.g., trend following), a reversal in trend could
create disruptive market movements, not to mention the
threat of rogue algorithms wreaking havoc on the market.

MONTHLY MARKET REVIEW NOVEMBER 2017 2

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012096
