3RSON

you met him, and then P'll—

ale friend] worked at Hollister
»1 mall, and I was mentioning
ry to go to Maine.. .I wanted to
and 1 couldn't afford a plane
iJ], you can get a plane ticket in
rou talking about?” Like, what
; sense to me, a plane ticket in
g about? And she goes, “Oh, we
and, um, he'll pay two hundred
utes or an hour.” And that's all

thing.

girls, so I looked cute, did my

that it was what it was. I wasn't

ie was gonna pay me two hun-

:—I, I don’t know, like, I don’t
on my head. I absolutely don't
ry mind was thinking, ob, well,
was also thinking, you know, at
ing crazy? Like, this guy’s not
t doing anything, not letting him
cnow? So I didn’t know what to

he does something that I have a

”

o?
of his, like, slaves that he has live
slaves,” like, one of the girls that

38

Fittuy Ricu

he bought to, like, have sex with him. Um, I was introduced
to one of them probably, like...Sarah. I was introduced to
Sarah. Um, that’s his assistant, I think. I think they have sex,
but I don’t know. Um, I was introduced to his assistant Sarah,
and she’s the one who told me that he would be ready in a
second. And from there I met various other girls. 1 don’t
really—I didn’t pay attention to who they were, though....
So...we were waiting on the couch in the bathroom, and,
um, Jeffrey comes up, and he’s like, “Hey, ’'m—I'm Jeffrey.”
He just introduced himself, and he hands—I remember this
‘cause I was pissed off that she got paid to bring me. Like, I
was pissed off. He hands her a wad of hundred-dollar bills

and says, “Thank you,” and she says, “I'll wait for you down-

stairs,” and I was like, “All right, I’ll see you in a little while.”

And that’s how I was brought to Jeffrey.

Um. Hold on—I’m remembering. I’m, like, picturing in my
head. I wore a skirt. I remember specifically what I wore: I
wore a skirt and just a regular T-shirt. And I was massaging
his legs, and he asked me to take off my skirt. And I said—I
think I said no at first. And he’s like, “Come on, you’re not
showing” —he talked me into it, basically. He’s like, “Oh,
you're not showing anything,” or [he] did something; I don't
even know. So I ended up taking off my skirt, and then he
goes—well, I think he just started touching, you know, the
top of me. So—and then he asked me.

: When you're saying “the top of you,” you mean your

breasts?

: Yeah. And then he asked me to take off my shirt. So I took off

my shirt, but I kept my underwear on. And I wouldn't take

39

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019155
