26 Teaching Minds

I most certainly taught the lessons this writer describes. I hated it
when students couldn’t get to the point and I frequently interrupted
them when they were speaking. In business, I make a point of saying
things that are very simple, which tends to upset people. I find this a
good way to start a conversation that addresses complex issues.

Of course, I never actually say any of this. I simply do it. The real
issue in teaching, by parents or by teachers or by anyone else, is the
model you present to the students. That model is presented by what
they see you do and how they see you act. They can choose to emulate
you or not. But a good teacher makes students think about how to
behave and about what works and what doesn’t.

| believe that effective teaching makes .. .

students think about how the teacher is behaving and causes
the students to wonder about whether copying this behavior
would be a good idea

students think about what works and what doesn’t in the adult
world

This next writer is a professor at a major university. I hired him to be
on the faculty at Yale, which was his first academic job.

I teach by telling stories that are meaningful to me. I let them
see who I am and how I live. I let them see what is important
to me and why. To be a real teacher you have to let yourself be
vulnerable. The student needs to see that you are a human with
feelings and fears and goals. You are saying to students: This is
the way I do it; it fits with who I am; it helps me be successful;
and don’t let anyone tell you that you can’t do something.
Everyone wants to control you, but in the end, you have to be
you, for better or worse. So, don’t let anyone tell you that you
can’t do something.

I tell that story over and over and over again in different
ways. About my research, about my company, about my family. I
walk the talk.

And, the students have to see that there are consequences
of breaking the rules; that it costs; and the costs can be high

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023772
