COWEN

COLLABORATIVE INSIGHTS February 25, 2019

Health Care: Drug Retailer Perspective (Rhyee)

2

CBD Products Gaining Traction With Independent Pharmacies

CBD products appear to be gaining traction with independent pharmacies, many of
whom are already selling or planning to sell CBD oils. We don't find this surprising given
the high demand for and strong expected growth potential of CBD products, as well as
the differentiation it affords independents relative to larger chain pharmacies.
Independent pharmacies also likely find the high-margin profile of CBD oils attractive,
which we suspect is similar to those of more traditional over-the-counter drugs. OTC
drugs are a substantial profit driver for independent pharmacies. The greater
acceptance of and improving sentiment towards CBD products as a viable business for
independent pharmacies is evidenced by a panel held by the National Community
Pharmacists Association (NCPA) at its annual convention in October 2018, which served
to educate independent pharmacy owners of the legality, clinical uses, potential risks
and marketing tactics of CBD oils. For those independent pharmacies that have decided
to sell CBD oils, ensuring that they provide high-quality products is paramount, witha
focus on looking at the bioavailability of CBD. Additionally, independent pharmacies
emphasize the importance of patient education, in regards to treatment and potential
side effects. Anecdotally, reports note that many independent pharmacies have received
positive feedback from patients, attributing diminished opioid dependence and pain
relief to CBD oils.

Large Pharmacy Chains Don’t Appear As Quick To Offer CBD Oils

Large pharmacy chains, such as CVS Pharmacy and Walgreens, don’t currently sell CBD
oil. WBA management has noted that, while the company is monitoring the CBD market
and the potential to sell it, WBA currently has no public stance on whether it plans to
sell CBD products future. Interestingly, Boots, which is a pharmacy chain in the U.K.
owned by WBA, sells CBD oil in three different doses (Figure 107). As such, we wouldn't
be surprised if WBA decides to sell CBD products in the future.

Figure 107 Boots - Cannabidiol & CBD Oil Offerings

Ship to AS | @Findastore | € Help Bool
Mia shop by department prescriptions services inspiration & advice Search products, brands and services Q wa
cannabidiol & CBD oil
filter by:
brand Showing 1-3 of 3 Sort by: Best match View 24 tte

price

2.
9
0:
*
0
0;

a
—

Dragonfly CBD Cannabidiol Oil
300mg 3.3% - 10m!

3 for 2 on selected vitam...

Dragonfly CBD Cannabidiol Oil
500mg 5.6% - 110ml

3 for 2 on selected vitam...

Dragonfly CBD Cannabidiol Oil
1000mg 11.1% - 10mI

3 for 2 on selected vitam...

Source: Boots.com and Cowen and Company
COWEN.COM 63

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024879
