Close).

° If meetings are unavoidable, keep the following in mind:
e » Go in with a clear set of objectives.

e > Set an end time or leave early.

2. Batch activities to limit setup cost and provide more time for dreamline milestones.

What can I routinize by batching? That is, what tasks (whether laundry, groceries, mail, payments, or
sales reporting, for example) can I allot to a specific time each day, week, month, quarter, or year so that
I don’t squander time repeating them more often than is absolutely necessary ?

3. Set or request autonomous rules and guidelines with occasional review of results.

Eliminate the decision bottleneck for all things that are nonfatal if misperformed. If an employee, believe
in yourself enough to ask for more independence on a trial basis. Have practical “rules” prepared and ask
the boss for the sale after surprising him or her with an impromptu presentation. Remember the Puppy
Dog Close—make it a one-time trial and reversible.

For the entrepreneur or manager, give others the chance to prove themselves. The likelihood of
irreversible or expensive problems is minimal and the time savings are guaranteed. Remember, profit is
only profitable to the extent that you can use it. For that you need time.

=» TOOLS AND TRICKS
Eliminating Paper Distractions, Capturing Everything

» Evernote ( www.evernote.com )

This is perhaps the most impressive tool I’ve found in the last year, introduced to me by some of the
most productive technologists in the world. Evernote has eliminated more than 90% of the paper in my
life and eliminated nearly all of the multiple tabs I used to leave open in web browsers, both of which
distracted me to no end. It can clear out your entire office clutter in one to three hours.

Evernote allows you to easily capture information from anywhere using whatever device is at hand,
and everything is then searchable (read: findable) from anywhere. I use it to:

e » Take photographs of everything I might want to remember or find
later—business cards, handwritten notes, wine labels, receipts,
whiteboard sessions, and more. Evernote identifies the text in all
of these pictures automatically, so it’s all searchable(!), whether
from an iPhone, your laptop, or the web. Just as one example, I
can store and find the contact information from any business card
in seconds (often using the built in iSight camera on Mac to

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013865
