Chapter 10
A Mind-World Correspondence Principle

10.1 Introduction

Real-world minds are always adapted to certain classes of environments and goals. The ideas
of the previous chapter, regarding the connection between a human-like intelligence’s internals
and its environment, result from exploring the implications of this adaptation in the context
of the cognitive synergy concept. In this chapter we explore the mind-world connection in a
broader and more abstract way — making a more ambitious attempt to move toward a general
theory of general intelligence.

One basic premise here, as in the preceding chapters is: Even a system of vast general
intelligence, subject to real-world space and time constraints, will necessarily be more efficient
at some kinds of learning than others. Thus, one approach to formulating a general theory of
general intelligence is to look at the relationship between minds and worlds — where a world
is conceived as an environment and a set of goals defined in terms of that environment.

In this spirit, we here formulate a broad principle binding together worlds and the minds that
are intelligent in these worlds. The ideas of the previous chapter constitute specific, concrete
instantiations of this general principle. A careful statement of the principle requires introduction
of a number of technical concepts, and will be given later on in the chapter. A crude, informal
version of the principle would be:

MIND-WORLD CORRESPONDENCE-PRINCIPLE

For a mind to work intelligently toward certain goals in a certain world, there should be a
nice mapping from goal-directed sequences of world-states into sequences of mind-states, where
nice means that a world-state-sequence W composed of two parts W, and Wo, gets mapped
into a mind-state-sequence M composed of two corresponding parts M, and Mo.

What’s nice about this principle is that it relates the decomposition of the world into parts,
to the decomposition of the mind into parts.

177

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013093
