TED2017: The future you

¥y y

https://ted2017.ted.com/program

4/20/17, 12:07 PM

In January 2017, Manoush and Note to Self launched Ihe Privacy Paradox,” a 5-part plan to help people take back control over their
digital identity. Tens of thousands of listeners have completed the 5-part plan so far, which Fast Company calls Manoush's challenge to us
to stick up for our internet rights. Her book exploring how boredom can ignite original thinking, Bored and Brilliant: Rediscovering the
Lost Art of Spacing Out, comes out in September 2017.

wnyc.org/shows/notetoself @manoushz

Shah Rukh Khan

Actor, producer, activist

With a fan following that runs into multi-millions, and 24 million followers on Twitter, Shah Rukh Khan is at forefront of the Indian film
industry and continues to rule at the box office in India.

One of the world's biggest movie stars, Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan is also an entrepreneur and inspired philanthropist. He heads the
film production company Red Chillies Entertainments, whose Chennai Express was the highest-grossing film of 2013, and his recent film
Raees also topped the box office in India. He's also the proud co-owner of two cricket franchises, the Kolkata Knight Riders and the
Trinbago Knight Riders.

In the fall, he will host TED's brand-new TV series in Hindi for Star Plus, titled TED Taiks India: Nayi Soch, which translates to new
thinking.”

As a philanthropist and spokesperson, Khan stands up for causes ranging from the environment and water-supply issues to rural solar
power. Khan's nonprofit Meer Foundation, named for his father, focuses on supporting victims of acid attacks through a 360-degree
approach that helps with medical treatment, legal aid, rehabilitation and livelihood support.

@iamsrk

Paul Cantelon
Musician and composer

Paul Cantelon is a composer of contemporary classical music and resonant, award-winning film scores -- as well as a violinist, pianist and
accordionist.

From his debut at the age of 13, at UCLA’s Royce Hall, Paul Cantelon commenced a successful career as a concert pianist, until some
years later he was abruptly stopped by a life-altering bicycle accident whilst at the Paris Conservatory.

Out of this crisis, Cantelon reinvented his musical career, which would come to encompass such extremes from playing with the Red Hot
Chili Peppers, to his eventual status as a Bafta-nominated film composer known for such scores as Julian Schnabel’s The Diving Bell and
the Butterfty’ and Oliver Stone’s W.

paulcantelon.com

Ashton Applewhite
Author, activist

Ashton Applewhite asks us to look at ageism -- the assumption that older people are alike and that aging impoverishes us. (Is that your
experience?)

Ashton Applewhite would like us to think differently about growing older. As she writes: Aging is a natural, lifelong, powerful process
that unites us all. So how come so many of us unthinkingly assume that depression, diapers, and dementia lie ahead? Because of ageism —
the last socially sanctioned prejudice.”

She's the author of This Chair Rocks: A Manifesto Against Ageism and is the voice of the Yo, Is This Ageist? blog. She is also the author of
Cutting Loose: Why Women Who End Their Marriages Do So Well -- and was a clue on Jeopardy! as the author of the mega bestseller
series, Truly Tasteless Jokes. (Who is Blanche Knott?)

thischairrocks.com @thischairrocks

Laolu Senbanjo
Artist, musician, lawyer, activist

Laolu Senbanjo's motto is: “Everything is my canvas.”

A visual artist, musician, human rights lawyer and activist, Laolu Senbanjo puts his mark on everything from canvas, to shoes, to walls and
buildings, to clothing and even the body with his Sacred Art of the Ori. Born and raised in Ilorin, Nigeria, his Yoruba heritage is ever-
present in his work, which marries modern detail and ornate style to create a vision of Afrofuturism.

His preferred medium is charcoal, because it’s something as natural as life and death,” he writes, and he also works in acrylics, inks and

even wood. Senbanjo created work for the astonishing Sorry video from Beyoncé's Lemonade, and he has worked with Angelique Kidjo,
Kenneth Cole, Alicia Keys, Usher and many more.

laolu.nyc @afromysterics

Helen Zaltzman
Podcaster

Helen Zaltzman makes The Allusionist, a podcast about small adventures in language.”

Page 19 of 21

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014969
