any moment, and it pleased him that Bannon’s pronouncements and views would
consistently be fully formed and ever available, a bracing, unified-field narrative. As well,
he could turn him off, and Bannon would be tactically quiet until turned on again.

Kushner had neither Bannon’s policy imagination nor Priebus’s institutional ties. But,
of course, he had family status, carrying its own high authority. In addition, he had
billionaire status. He had cultivated a wide range of New York and international money
people, Trump acquaintances and cronies, and, often, people whom Trump would have
wished to like him better than they did. In this, Kushner became the representative in the
White House of the liberal status quo. He was something like what used to be called a
Rockefeller Republican and now might more properly be a Goldman Sachs Democrat. He
—and, perhaps even more, Ivanka—was at diametric odds with both Priebus, the stout-
right, Sun Belt-leaning, evangelical dependent Republican, and Bannon, the alt-right,
populist, anti-party disruptor.

From their separate corners each man pursued his own strategy. Bannon did all he
could to roll over Priebus and Kushner in an effort to prosecute the war for
Trumpism/Bannonism as quickly as possible. Priebus, already complaining about
“political neophytes and the boss’s relatives,” subcontracted his agenda out to Ryan and
the Hill. And Kushner, on one of the steepest learning curves in the history of politics (not
that everyone in the White House wasn’t on a steep curve, but Kushner’s was perhaps the
steepest), and often exhibiting a painful naiveté as he aspired to be one of the world’s
savviest players, was advocating doing nothing fast and everything in moderation. Each
had coteries opposed to the other: Bannonites pursued their goal of breaking everything
fast, Priebus’s RNC faction focused on the opportunities for the Republican agenda,
Kushner and his wife did their best to make their unpredictable relative look temperate
and rational.

And in the middle was Trump.

OOK Ok

“The three gentlemen running things,” as Walsh came to coolly characterize them, all
served Trump in different ways. Walsh understood that Bannon provided the president
with inspiration and purpose, while the Priebus-Ryan connection promised to do what to
Trump seemed like the specialized work of government. For his part, Kushner best
coordinated the rich men who spoke to Trump at night, with Kushner often urging them to
caution him against both Bannon and Priebus.

The three advisers were in open conflict by the end of the second week following the
immigration EO and travel ban debacle. This internal rivalry was the result of stylistic,
philosophic, and temperamental differences; perhaps more important, it was the direct
result of the lack of a rational org chart or chain of command. For Walsh, it was a daily
process of managing an impossible task: almost as soon as she received direction from one

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019974
