Fittuy Ricu

*ATTERSON
different. But they were not | At times, some prosecutors felt that we should just go to
n di
trial, and at times I felt that frustration myself. What was
ust be based on admissible right in the first meeting, however, remained right irre-
m : . - . . -
ses of this type, those are i spective of defense tactics. Individuals have a constitu-
1¢ca |
e victims are frightened and | ional right to a defense. The aggressive exercise of that
[ they do speak, they give con- F right should not be punished, nor should a defense coun-
ey %

sel’s exercise of their right to appeal a U.S Attorney to
Washington D.C. Prosecutors must be careful not to allow
frustration and anger with defense counsel to influence
their judgment.

‘judgment in this case, based
che time, was that it was better

time in jail, register as a sex
ms restitution than risk a trial
1 of success. I supported that
on the state law as it then stood
- the time, I would support that

After the plea, | recall receiving several phone calls.
One was from the FBI Special Agent-In-Charge. He called
to offer congratulations. He had been at many of the
meetings regarding this case. He was aware of the tactics
of the defense, and he called to praise our prosecutors for
holding firm against the likes of Messrs. Black, Dershow-
itz, Lefkowitz and Starr. It was a proud moment. | also
received calls or communications from Messrs. Dershow-
itz, Lefkowitz and Starr. I had known all three individu-
als previously, from my time in law school and at

Kirkland & Ellis in the mid 90s. They all sought to make
a the prosecution should ~ peace. | agreed to talk and meet with each of them after
liation for the defense’s tactics. i ; Epstein pled guilty, as I think it important that prosecu-
tors battle defense attorneys in a case and then move on. I

have tried, yet 1 confess that this has been difficult to do
fully in this case.

hile in state custody, likewise
hat the office should have been
rms of confinement in a state
sriately left to the State of Flor-
rities, without doubt, the treat-
le in state custody undermined

ten failed to negotiate in good
concessions as part of a negotia- 4
d, only to change their minds,
sition to Washington. The inves- i
lives of individual prosecutors |
alled for, as were the accusations”
t against individual prosecutors)

The bottom line is this: Mr. Jeffrey Epstein, a billionaire,
q served time in jail and is now a registered sexual offender.
% pte has been required to pay his victims restitution, though
estitution clearly cannot compensate for the crime. And

a

210

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022019
