OOK Ok

What did the people around Trump actually think of Trump? This was not just a
reasonable question, it was the question those around Trump most asked themselves. They
constantly struggled to figure out what they themselves actually thought and what they
thought everybody else was truly thinking.

Mostly they kept their answers to themselves, but in the instance of Comey and
Mueller, beyond all the usual dodging and weaving rationalizations, there really wasn’t
anybody, other than the president’s family, who didn’t very pointedly blame Trump
himself.

This was the point at which an emperors-new-clothes threshold was crossed. Now you
could, out loud, rather freely doubt his judgment, acumen, and, most of all, the advice he
was getting.

“He’s not only crazy,” declared Tom Barrack to a friend, “he’s stupid.”

But Bannon, along with Priebus, had strongly opposed the Comey firing, while Ivanka
and Jared had not only supported it, but insisted on it. This seismic event prompted a new
theme from Bannon, repeated by him widely, which was that every piece of advice from
the couple was bad advice.

Nobody now believed that firing Comey was a good idea; even the president seemed
sheepish. Hence, Bannon saw his new role as saving Trump—and Trump would always
need saving. He might be a brilliant actor but he could not manage his own career.

And for Bannon, this new challenge brought a clear benefit: when Trump’s fortune
sank, Bannon’s rose.

On the trip to the Middle East, Bannon went to work. He became focused on the figure
of Lanny Davis, one of the Clinton impeachment lawyers who, for the better part of two
years, became a near round-the-clock spokesperson and public defender of the Clinton
White House. Bannon judged Comey-Mueller to be as threatening to the Trump White
House as Monica Lewinsky and Ken Starr were to the Clinton White House, and he saw
the model for escaping a mortal fate in the Clinton response.

“What the Clintons did was to go to the mattresses with amazing discipline,” he
explained. “They set up an outside shop and then Bill and Hillary never mentioned it
again. They ground through it. Starr had them dead to rights and they got through it.”

Bannon knew exactly what needed to be done: seal off the West Wing and build a
separate legal and communications staff to defend the president. In this construct, the
president would occupy a parallel reality, removed from and uninvolved with what would
become an obvious partisan blood sport—as it had in the Clinton model. Politics would be
relegated to its nasty corner, and Trump would conduct himself as the president and as the
commander in chief.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020059
