keep private.

e » Establish do-not-disturb hours, when calls are routed directly to
voicemail with no ring.

e » Have voicemail sent to your cell phone as SMS (text messages).

YouMail, another option, can also transcribe voicemails and send them to your phone as text
messages. Getting calls while stuck in a time-wasting meeting’? No problem: Respond to voicemails via
SMS during the meeting so you’re not stuck returning calls afterward.

One Shot, One Kill Scheduling Without E-mail Back-and-Forth

Few things are as time-consuming as scheduling via e-mail. Person A: “How about Tues. at 3 PM.?”
Person B: “I can make it.” Person C: “I have a meeting. How about Thurs.?” Person D: “I’m on a con-
call. How about 10 A.M. on Fri.?” Use these tools to make scheduling simple and fast instead of another
part-time job.

= Doodle ( www.doodle.com )

The best free tool ’ve found for herding cats (multiple people) for scheduling without excessive e-mail.
Create and poll in 30 seconds with the proposed options and forward a link to everyone invited. Check
back a few hours later and you’ll have the best time for the most people.

= TimeDriver ( www.timedriver.com )

Let colleagues and clients self-schedule with you based on your availability, which is determined by
integration with Outlook or Google Calendar. Embed a “schedule now” button in e-mail messages and
you'll never have to tell people when you can make a call or meeting. Let them see what’s open and
choose.

Choosing the Best E-mail Batching Times

= Xobni ( www.xobni.com/special )

Xobni—inbox spelled backwards—is a free program for putting Outlook on steroids. It offers many
features, but the most relevant to this chapter is its ability to identify “hotspots,” or periods of time when
you receive the bulk of e-mail from your most important contacts. These “hotspots” are batching times
that will enable you to keep critical contacts (clients, bosses, etc.) smiling even while you reduce
checking e-mail to 1-3 times per day. It will also populate your contacts automatically by pulling phone
numbers, addresses, etc., from separate e-mail buried in the inbox.

E-mailing Without Entering the Black Hole of the Inbox

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013867
