B. Jeannie Rhee, hand-picked by Mueller from Mueller's own firm, was actually Clinton's lawyer in the email
investigation. Now how does that look. She also is a bully and thinks she is a real tough guy and | don't want that kind
of character around. | also have an ineffective assistance of counsel case against her for a client in a $100 million
earnings management fraud case in which she was way over her head.

C. Greg Andres was another bully who replaced Weissmann in the EDNY. He withheld evidence terribly in his cases,
regularly threatened others, and accused a defendant of putting out a contract on him when he knew it was a completely
bogus claim, but gave him the publicity he craved. He is 100% in the pro-Clinton, anti-Trump camp. President Obama
gave his wife a federal judgeship on the SDNY

and on and on.

| don't personally believe Russia affected the election at all; but | certainly am not qualified to say. | do know that we
have meddled in other countries' elections as a matter of policy forever. But the bottom line is, if there is to be an
investigation, just play it straight up. | am friends for a long time with the IG. If they had picked him to head up the team,
| would not be a weekly guest on Hannity tv and radio (| never would have been asked), as | Know he would pick a team
of honest folks from across the spectrum.

-----Original Message-----

From: jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com>
To: Devid Schoen aa
Sent: Wed, Jul 4, 2018 8:10 am

Subject: Re: Hello

is itoverblown. ? — all mob prosecutors have strong feelings towards their targets. | recall many that told stories of
how they despised gotti etc. why is stryok different ?

On Wed, Jul 4, 2018 at 7:51 AM, i wrote:

| am obsessed with prosecutorial and FBI misconduct wherever it rears it ugly head and i am committed to doing what i
can to fight it whether for my death penalty clients or a klansman. Lots of wrongdoing here and we all lose when the
system breaks down.

| assume you were just flipping the channels.

Hope you are doing well. | see they never miss an opportunity to try to drag you in - saw an article the other day asking
how you missed the #metoo press and tying you to trump. Didn't mention much of all you have been put through
already. | hope the cases are all behind you now. | would have liked to have helped; but i guess you and your team
decided on a different direction. Whatever works best.

jeevacation@gmail.com

judge jeannie?

On Mon, Apr 16, 2018 at 9:54 PM, x wrote:

Just checking in to see how you are getting along these days. | hope all the litigation is well behind you and things are
going well

Take care.
David
David |. Schoen

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026288
