Invisible Forces and Unseen Powers:
Gravity, Gods, and Minds

Preface

1. Invisible Forces Operating on Human
Bodies

Gravity is an invisible force that holds us
to the surface of the earth, and the fact
that gravity is invisible does not place it
beyond scientific scrutiny. Similarly,
humans are a quintessentially social
species whose need for social connection
produces invisible forces on our brain,
behavior, and biology that are subject to
scientific investigation. Among these are
forces that compel us to seek trusting and
meaningful connections with others and
to seek meaning and connection with
something bigger than ourselves. The
story of these invisible forces speaks to
who we are as a species.

From Selfish Genes to Social Brains

2. The Social Nature of Humankind
The human brain has evolved under the
guidance of selfish genes to produce
more than a brain that is capable of
powerful, isolated information
processing operations. The human brain
also evolved with inherent capacities for
social cognition, compassion, empathy,
bonding, coordination, cooperation,
values, mortality and a need for social
connection that extends beyond kin and
even other mdividuals.

From Inclusive Fitness to Spiritual
Striving

3. Science, Religion, and a Revised

Religious Humanism
The dialogue between science and
religion, if properly pursued, can usher in
a new era of religious humanism in the
leading world religions. Their central
beliefs and practices largely would
remain intact, but their views of nature
and their concerns with health and well-
being would be refined through their
conversations with the sciences. How

this model would work is discussed in
terms of the relation between love and
health in Christian theology — especially
the tension between the agape, caritas,
and eros models of Christian love.

The Status of the Body Politic and the
Status of the Body Itself

4. Health by Connection: From Social

Brains to Resilient Bodies
Most people feel socially connected most
of the time. Felt connectedness is
typically taken for granted, but the
effects of its absence, as experienced in
feelings of isolation, demonstrate that
our evolutionary heritage as a social
species has potent implications for health
and well-being.

From Relationships to People and
Groups to Relationships with God

5. Psychosomatic Relations: From

Superstition to Mortality
It has long been recognized that mental
states can impact health and well being,
but the causal pathways have only
recently begun to be understood.
Thoughts, beliefs and attitudes can have
powerful effects on physiological
functions, health and disease. Examples
range from superstitious beliefs
associated with voodoo, bone pointing,
or other black rituals to the more positive
states associated with spirituality. The
present essay considers these disparate
psychological states and how they might
translate into physiological effects
having real health implications.

The Mind and Body Are One

6. The Suspension of Individual
Consciousness and the Dissolution of
Self and Other Boundaries

A special case of social interaction
concerns two or more individuals
engaging in temporally coordinated

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021248
