Improvements Description and Analysis 43

Construction Details

Foundation Reinforced concrete footings

Structural Frame Steel frame

Corridor Exterior breezeways

Exterior Walls Painted mansory on the lower levels, wood-siding on the upper levels
Windows Fixed commercial glass with wooden hurricane shutters

Roof Pitched with standing seam metal roof

Interior Finishes The subject property contains a total GBA of 72,808 and a rentable area of

48,652. The large difference in area totals is due to a siginificant amount of
exterior common areas as well as a 1,406 SF management office. The
improvements are contained within five total buildings varying from one
story to three stories. Each building contains a mixutre of retail and office
space, with the retail spaces generally on the ground levels and the office
spaces generally on the upper levels. The interior upfits of the spaces vary in
use, quality and condition but generally are considered to be of good quality
and condition. Based on the rent roll there are a total of 39 rentable spaces of
which 10 are upfit as bar/restaurants (3 which sharea kitchen), 17 are
considered general retail spaces, 11 are considered general office spaces and
oneis considered a storage space.

Floors Combination of carpet, ceramic or porcelain tile, hardwood, and exposed
brick.
Walls Combination of rendered and painted masonry and painted sheetrock.
Ceilings Combination of suspended grid accoustic panels, painted sheetrock, and
tongue and groove or bead board.
Lighting Combination of incandescent and fluorescent lighting with fixtures ranging
from average to good quality.
Electrical Assumed typical installation to code
Plumbing Assumed typical installation to code
Heating None
Air Conditioning Central
Utility Meters - Tenants Individually metered for water and electricity
Elevators One
Rest Rooms Common area bathroom are adequate. There are four full bathrooms of good
quality that are available to tenants of the marina.
Sprinklers None
Other Fire Safety Steel structural beams are fire coated with concrete
Security The subject is gated along the waterfront and interior/exterior security

cameras are installed throughout the property.

Site Improvements

Landscaping Average

No. of Customer Parking Spaces 167

Gates/Fencing Over 6' aluminum gate along the subject's waterfrontage
Paving Combination of concrete and brick pavers

ire
IGY American Yacht Harbor Marina fire!

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018854
