I never feel like less of an American than when the richest people abandon the poorest.

I never feel like less of an American than when a President lies, and his supporters applaud.

Sometimes it takes the experience of shame to galvanize change, and this is such a time. Having lived too long
on the self-image of America is the greatest, richest, most powerful country in the world, we produced
Trumpism, which has shattered that image. It's been a traumatic experience. Mature adults are supposed to be
resilient in the face of difficult challenges, but a person can bend only so far. That's why one sees an outraged

Resistance, moving from He's not my President to Is this even my country?

If as we often hear, America isn't a place on the map but an idea, the idea is in trouble. Every day I'm reminded
of Sinclair Lewis's 1935 novel, Jt Can Happen Here, which imagined the election of a Fascist to the
presidency. As tumultuous as the Thirties were, fascism didn't happen here. In fact, the New Deal and the
inception of a social safety net came about. But reactionary forces simmer away when they aren't at a boil. Who
would have thought that the leader of the House in 2018 wants to weaken the social safety net by saving

Social Security and Medicare?

A survey of 117 historians recently ranked Donald Trump the worst President in history, which seems right
after only one year in office. But what makes me feel like less of an American is knowing that 40% of my
fellow citizens love and approve of him, who have reservations, yes, but overall want his agenda to move ahead.
In the daily fire hose of presidential offenses, little attention was paid to the revelation by Reince Priebus,
former White House chief of staff, that however chaotic this Presidency looked from the outside, it was worse

on the inside--fifty times worse.

Trumpism is the product of collective consciousness, and although one hears about the wisdom of crowds, but
when collective consciousness veers as close to lunacy as this administration, healing is the only answer.
Reactionary forces, racists, white supremacists, and haters are like algae on the surface of a pond. Algae only
appears if the pond is dank and still. When water is clear and flowing, there is no condition for algae to thrive

in.

The remedies for healing America are flowing with more force than before. Notions like Medicare for all, free
higher education, and bringing huge banks to heel were semi-fantasy in the last Presidential election. Now they
are quickly moving mainstream. Ecological awareness is growing and unstoppable. There is a possibility that by
destroying America's self-image, Trumpism has opened the way for facing reality, which after all is better than

living up to a self-image that is hollow at the core.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026789
