with increased challenges in the diplomatic, economic, and security domains, China’s
influence activities have collectively helped throw the crucial relationship between the
People’s Republic of China and the United States into a worrisome state of imbalance and
antagonism. (Throughout the report, “China” refers to the Chinese Communist Party and the
government apparatus of the People’s Republic of China, and not to Chinese society at large
or the Chinese people as a whole.) Not only are the values of China’s authoritarian system
anathema to those held by most Americans, but there is also a growing body of evidence

that the Chinese Communist Party views the American ideals of freedom of speech, press,
assembly, religion, and association as direct challenges to its defense of its own form of one-
party rule.”

Both the US and China have derived substantial benefit as the two nations have become
more economically and socially intertwined. The value of combined US-China trade
($635.4 billion, with a $335.4 US deficit) far surpasses that between any other pair of
countries.? More than 350,000 Chinese students currently study in US universities (plus
80,000 more in secondary schools). Moreover, millions of Chinese have immigrated to
the United States seeking to build their lives with more economic, religious, and political
freedom, and their presence has been an enormous asset to American life.

However, these virtues cannot eclipse the reality that in certain key ways China is
exploiting America’s openness in order to advance its aims on a competitive playing field
that is hardly level. For at the same time that China’s authoritarian system takes advantage
of the openness of American society to seek influence, it impedes legitimate efforts by
American counterpart institutions to engage Chinese society on a reciprocal basis. This
disparity lies at the heart of this project’s concerns.

China’s influence activities have moved beyond their traditional United Front focus

on diaspora communities to target a far broader range of sectors in Western societies,
ranging from think tanks, universities, and media to state, local, and national government
institutions. China seeks to promote views sympathetic to the Chinese Government,
policies, society, and culture; suppress alternative views; and co-opt key American players to
support China’s foreign policy goals and economic interests.

Normal public diplomacy, such as visitor programs, cultural and educational exchanges,
paid media inserts, and government lobbying are accepted methods used by many
governments to project soft power. They are legitimate in large measure because they are
transparent. But this report details a range of more assertive and opaque “sharp power”
activities that China has stepped up within the United States in an increasingly active
manner.* These exploit the openness of our democratic society to challenge, and sometimes
even undermine, core American freedoms, norms, and laws.

Introduction

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020461
