by remaining overweight US corporate high yield
credit versus investment grade fixed income and by
funding various tactical tilts from their high-quality
bond allocation. While most investment grade
bonds may have uninspiring tactical prospects, we
emphasize that investors should not completely
abandon their bond allocation in search of higher
yields. As the last several years have reminded
us, investment grade fixed income serves a vital
strategic role in the portfolio, due to its ability to
hedge against deflation, reduce portfolio volatility
and generate income.

In the sections that follow, we review the
specifics of each fixed income market.

US Treasuries

While 2016 began as a bumper year for US
Treasuries, it ended in a rout. The yield on 10-year
Treasury bonds, for example, reached an all-time
low of just 1.36% by the middle of last year before
jolting higher by more than one percentage point
by year-end. As a result, investors’ nearly double-
digit gains devolved into a small loss. Even worse,
the bulk of the rate increase occurred in just the
last three months of 2016, generating a 7% loss for
the quarter that has been exceeded less than 1% of
the time historically since 1981.

We expect rates to continue to increase, albeit
at a slower pace in 2017, as many of the forces
that have restrained yields are slowly fading.
Inflation, in particular, has been a persistent drag,
reflecting a toxic combination of excess labor slack
that depressed wages, a strong dollar that lowered
import prices and a significant decline in oil prices
that weighed on breakeven inflation rates. But
as we begin the eighth year of the US expansion,
labor slack has been largely absorbed, evident in
today’s firming wages. Moreover, the impact of the
dollar is diminishing as its pace of ascent slows,
while the recovery in oil is boosting breakeven
inflation rates.

Other headwinds are also receding. The fiscal
austerity among the advanced economies that
has dampened economic growth and decreased
sovereign bond issuance—both of which depress
interest rates—is now reversing (see Exhibit 78).
Indeed, US fiscal spending is expected to add
0.3-0.5 percentage points to GDP growth in each
of the next two years.!4

At the same time, there is reduced demand
for risk-free assets, like US Treasuries, given
the unexpectedly sanguine reaction to negative

Exhibit 78: Fiscal Stance of Advanced Economies
Fiscal austerity in developed markets has reversed in
recent years.

Number of Countries Loosened

35 5

wTightened m Remained Neutral

30 + 8 9

25 4

a

20 +

2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016

Data as of December 31, 2016.
Source: Investment Strategy Group, IMF.

geopolitical events—such as the UK and Italian
referenda—and the results of the US election.
Finally, the deleterious impact of depressed interest
rates on banking sector profitability has raised the
hurdle for global central banks to cut interest rates
further and/or increase the scale of QE programs. In
turn, market focus has shifted toward the eventual
tapering of BOJ, ECB and BOE accommodation,
which has helped lift bond term premiums and
boosted long-term yields (see Exhibit 79).

In light of these waning headwinds, the Federal
Reserve is likely to hike two or three times in 2017,
with upside risks from a larger-than-anticipated
fiscal expansion. Combined with some further
normalization in the term premium, we expect 10-
year rates to increase to 2.50-3.00% by year-end.
Given the balance of risks, we remain comfortable
funding tactical tilts out of investment grade
fixed income.

Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS)
TIPS fared better than nominal bonds in 2016,
delivering a positive mid-single-digit return. Their
outperformance was driven by the recovery in
breakeven inflation rates, which began the year at
very depressed levels consistent with only 1.5%
annual inflation over the next 10 years—well
below long-run forecasts (see Exhibit 80). In fact,
our work suggests that breakeven inflation rates
were reflecting high odds of a deep recession over
the course of 2016, well above the risk suggested
by our recession models.

66 | Goldman Sachs | JANUARY 2017

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014599
