A Justice Department spokeswoman declined to comment. Christopher Clark, an attorney
for Broidy, declined to comment.

Broidy’s alleged activities were detailed in news reports earlier this year that cited hacked
emails. The Los Angeles-based venture capitalist, who served as top fundraiser for the
Republican Party and President Trump, has said that allegations against him are an effort by
his enemies to smear him.

Rudolph W. Giuliani, an attorney for Trump, said he had no knowledge of any request for
records related to Broidy. The White House referred a request for comment to the
Republican National Committee, which declined to comment.

[Trump fundraiser Elliott Broidy sues Qatar alleging cyber smear campaign]

In recent weeks, prosecutors with the Justice Department’s public integrity section — which
examines possible political and government corruption — have sought documents related to
Broidy’s business dealings.

Among the information sought by investigators are details about Broidy’s work on behalf of
and interactions with the Chinese and Malaysian officials, according to two people familiar
with the document requests.

As part of their efforts, prosecutors have subpoenaed casino magnate Steve Wynn, the
former RNC finance chairman and longtime Trump friend, for copies of records and
communications related to Broidy.

An attorney for Wynn, Reid Weingarten, declined to comment, saying only that Wynn is
cooperating with the Justice Department.

“Steve Wynn is completely cooperating with the investigation and he certainly has no reason
to believe that anyone acted improperly in anything he knew about or was involved in,”
Weingarten said in a statement.

Wynn was tapped by Trump to serve as the RNC’s lead fundraiser after the election. Earlier
this year, he stepped down from that post and from his executive role at his resort company
after reports of sexual misconduct. Wynn has denied the allegations of inappropriate
behavior.

The public integrity probe is the latest legal challenge for Broidy, who helped corral big
donors to support Trump’s presidential campaign, throwing a lavish fundraiser for the then-
nominee at his Los Angeles-area home during the 2016 campaign. After the election, he was
appointed to serve as a national deputy chairman for the RNC.

Broidy sought to parlay his party role and connections to the White House and on Capitol
Hill in pitches to foreign governments, according to a person with direct knowledge of his
activities.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031765
