coordination with Suydam Kathy gregory, I would suggest limiting to one person. The increasing public
profile needs to be taken into consideration.
talk later..

Date: Sun, Dec 28, 2014 at 5:18 AM
Subject: jobs ahead

To: Brad Wechsler Melanie Spinclla (i, Ada Clapp
Cti(i‘iS

1. review accounting system. Book keeping softaware. _ staff, ( senior accountant ) methods on line
banking, brokerage. cash mgmt. airplane reimbursement. boat sale. art purchases sales use and sales tax.
tax filings FBAR FATCA, gaming commsion, pfics, insurance . uk co law.

2. review docs for TRA BRH grats, trusts, heritage will, insurance, art lending. medical, springing
powers. two fire drill books. one needed for injury. other for death

3 review bills . boats , planes, legal, (PW, McFarlands all outside. legal and accounting. Toms bills
over 400k . house projects. south ny ben

4 cashflow projections tax projections , interaction with Apollo accounting tax, Phaidon ,art space ,and
Regan. legal accounting. audit

5. children meetings , review to date and allocations

6 review all role in payables. files scanned, no paper

7 review invesmtents for tax basis and unrecognized gain

8 schedule of all hedge funds . redeemables commitments etc.

9 charities pledges strucutre, staff,

Date: Fri, Feb 20, 2015 at 5:52 AM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella i

1) pg 1 A unequal shares. pg 23 removal of trustees  absolute. dont be confused with abiltiy to set
up Seperate trusts, , 2) I am reachable this afternoon in europe. on cell. 3. on another note . -our
financial agreement ended months ago . seperate from the art partnership (which i was told yesterday to
my amazement is still not funded) . 1am obligated to complete ? the time i have dedicated since oct/
dec has been spent mainly as your friend. tom, brad though i am fully cognizant of my responsiblities. I
will try to help find people. I am not good at human resources. howevr If I don;t think they are good
enough for you. I will continue to say so _, and you obviously decide. but I will reiterrate even in the face
of your nobody is good enough argument. keeping foremost in my mind that you and I have only beeen
shown a very tiny handful of people. 4. I find the friction over fees , counterproductive. in an attempt to
avoid it I had suggested a multi year deal early on. you rejected it. I then suggested, and urged you to
have an option at a fixed fee , you also rejected that .you wanted the fee payment only at the end I argued
but ,conceded. I suggested a structure that tom didn't like. you rejected it. 5 I suggest you make a fair
proposal.- that i can either accept or reject. some payment up front this time is a requirement. I am willing
to modify any outstanding obligations. - there are creative ways to assure you of your desired
characterization of those payments. 6 you should open accts at Deutsh . and goldman. I am told that
eilleen has set up over one hundred bank acccts for you???!!._ few relevant 7 you should immediatly
demand a list of all her acct authorites , exec poistions . director etc. bank authorizsations. etc. talk
later or over the weekend if you like

Date: Wed, Dec 9, 2015 at 10:16 AM
Subject: Fwd:

To: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com>
kkkjkjjjkjjyou said

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023216
