Jeffrey,

The bots did the sweep. Here are the new results taken as of a minute ago. You have only one negative article
left on front page of google, which is the Huffington Post article. The Huffington Post is extremely hard to
move, because it is so powerful, has millions of links to it, and uploads massive new and original content it on
a daily basis with posting from out side readers. We managed to push it down the page, as it used to be at the
top. If we were able to post original content to both the science and the org site (absolutely not a single word
to this day by Jessica, just talk), we would have been able to push it down even further, and off the page. WE
did manage to get rid of the daily beast article, which is now far removed, inspite of their own efforts to keep
it prominent.

Toxic suggested search engine terms that popped up automatically when you typed in your name are also now
removed.

Wikipedia was an important victory, as it will always be at the top of the search engine results. ow the head
lines do not mention convicted sex offender or pedophile. Instead, Philanthrophic work, Epstein Foundation,
Promotion of Scientists. We have stopped the hacking on your wiki site, and that was a major effor. Your
wiki entry now is pretty tame, and bad stuff has been muted, bowlerized, and pused to the bottom. Careful
editing and wording has muted the effect immensely. We hacked the site to replace the mug shot and caption,
and now has an entirely different photo and caption. This was a big success.

We pushed the Edge all the way up to the front page, where it was previously buried on page 5 of google
search.

We have promoted the other jeffrey epsteins, and other pages are also filled with your material.

And, while the sites are up, and in the direction we hoped, they are still new, and subject to volitility,
especially if new original content is not added on a minimum of a weekly basis. I have been forbideen to add
new content to the philanthrophic site as well as the science site, and therefore, as a result our rating slipped
down (still on the first page, but would have liked them (and some of the articles to been able to push
Huffington off page). We also helped with you images, and the first images that come of you on a google
search are not of your mug shot, etc.

Your daily beast foe is still at it, and trying to promote her sites against you in the same way that we try to
depromote you.

As far as this site is concerned, and the continuation of this, I do not know what you wish to do. Clearly, you
have no interest in my continuing. And, I am not sure if you want to continue the project at all. If the latter,
and you stop, eventually it will just go into the way of entropy, and it will return to the old form. The major
work has been done, but it needs to be maintained. For it to get better results, it needs to have constant input
and supervision, and that means generating proper content, not just editing and grammatical fixes. Writers
need to know what to write. THe philanthrophy site is at the bottom of the page precisely because you have
not allowed us to add any content to it, and as a result it suffers.

You paid Mike $2500, which he applied for the purchasing of his replacement servers, but his fee of $7500

balance is now due if you want to continue. Please let me know what you want to do. I need to inform him,
and if you are not going to use him, he needs to take on his other clients and devote his time there.

This needs to be contrasted with what we started with, which was a search on your name, which had nine/10
very toxic prominent stories, and toxic Wiki article and headline.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022227
