Preface xi

was a breakdown in communication. Of course, this may be a purely
personal failing, but when I talk to people in other companies they
report the same problem. It seems we all find communication difficult.

have wondered for many years why it is called the ‘art of
communication. Surely it’s a science, governed by bits, bytes and
bandwidth. That might be true of the symbols in an email — they are
clearly encoded symbolically — but is the understanding in our brains
simply encoded by symbols? What is the physics that underlies human
understanding?

Each summer I go on holiday to escape engineering for a couple of
weeks. While away I indulge my passion for reading books by the likes
of Douglas Hofstadter, David Deutsch and Stephen Hawking. One book
that struck me years ago was Roger Penrose’s The Emperors New Mind.
In it, he tackles the question of what happens in the human brain when
we understand something. He extends an idea put forward by J.R. Lucas
of Oxford University that minds must be more powerful than computers
because they do something computers cannot: namely to step beyond
mere rules and see truth. Colloquially we call this ‘common sense’ or
‘stepping outside the box’

The Lucas argument uses the theories of Gédel and Turing to
show computer algorithms have limitations. Some things are simply
not computable. Computers can do many useful things, but they cannot
discover new mathematical theorems, such as a proof of Fermat’s Last
Theorem. In 1996, Andrew Wiles succeeded in finding a solution to this
problem. This presents a paradox, solved only if we conclude Andrew
Wiles is not a computer. Indeed, since most mathematicians discover at
least one theorem during their lives, we must conclude no mathematician
is a computer! This is controversial. Most philosophers tend to the
view put forward by Daniel Dennett that the Universe is an entirely
determined place and any personal sense of free will and creativity is
an illusion. In Dennett’s worldview, Andrew Wiles is a special purpose
machine that was always destined to solve Fermat’s Last Theorem. I
believe this model is flawed. It is my aim in this book to show you why.
Indeed I am going to go further and argue all human creativity is non-
computational; art, communication, understanding - all are based on
non-algorithmic principles.

If you consider creative thinking deeply enough you're inevitably
drawn into the question of whether we have free will. When I get to
work each morning, the first thing I do — after a cup of coffee, obviously
— is choose which creative task to tackle first. I feel this choice is freely
made, but the determined determinists assure me I am wrong and my

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015685
