Code Enforcement Board Meeting Minutes 07/17/08

noted that the street lights in Palm Beach do not go off during turtle nesting
season. He said a field permit for trimming of the sea grapes at the Nightingale
Beach Club Association was not recommended during the nesting season. He said
the indifference to materials he had brought forth more than a year ago that had
now been brought forth officially by the DEP were offensive to him and that is one
of the reasons he had continued to “hammer” this. He said he believed the Board
should recommend to the Town Council that they remove this section of the Code,
given the current environmental regime, especially when one considers the public
relations downside of fighting him on this issue and spending $2,000,000 to fight
Lake Worth on the other side. Mr. Maxey said this was probably not a win-win
situation and that NOAA had not even been brought into the fold yet.

Mr. Ochstein wanted to know if the Board was precluded from enforcing the
ordinance now. Mr. Walton said it should not be enforced now, that in speaking
with Mr. Wettstein from DEP and Ms. Higgins from FWC, an agreement had been
reached to wait until the end of turtle season to require the trimming. The Town
recommends granting the Nightingale Beach Club until November 7, 2008 to come
into compliance. The permit is good until that date. In response to Mr. Hoffman’s
question, Mr. Walton said the permit was issued on June 16, 2008. Mr. Maxey
said he applied on March 19, 2008. Mr. Balletine inquired as to whether 7 days
was sufficient for compliance after the end of turtle season and Mr. Walton said it
was not a large area and he believed it was. Mr. Maxey said he did not believe it
was sufficient, that it would be an economic hardship if he had to replace every
tree that is over 3 inches in diameter in order to get it below 6 feet and he brought
up other issues involved with the trimming. Mr. Balletine told Mr. Maxey he just
wanted to know, without going into a lot of detail, whether he could comply in a 7
day period.. Mr. Maxey said that before he could remove any native plant, he had
to first remove every single non-native one from the property and he had some
questions whether or not he could comply within that time period. He also said he
had some real questions about whether the law, both at the State and the local
level, had been equally applied within the Town. Mr. Maxey said he is in
consultation with an attorney to find out what measures he can take. The Town
did not apply for a permit to cut its own sea grapes and judging from the
guidelines he has in his permit, the Town would be in violation of almost everyone
of those guidelines. The DEP counsel’s office asked him to provide photographs
of the Town’s illegal cutting back in February.

Mr. Vanneck said there should be more research as to what should and should not
be cut. He believes the Town code may have gone too far.

Mr. Hoffman said the Board did not have the authority to modify the Code and
could only enforce the Codes as they had been written.

MOTION BY MR. OCHSTEIN TO GRANT THE VIOLATOR UNTIL
NOVEMBER 7, 2008 TO COME INTO COMPLIANCE AND IF
COMPLIANCE IS NOT ACHIEVED BY THAT DATE, TO ASSESS A FINE
IN THE AMOUNT OF $250.00 A DAY UNTIL COMPLIANCE IS ACHIEVED
SECONDED BY MR. BSLTEN Be

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016567
