possibly be BDSM! Because I'm not a BDSMer! Because BDSM is dirty.

But we shouldn't necessarily blame people for this instinct to reject and categorize: the
instinct is one that comes from being scared and oppressed... because the social penalties
for getting it wrong” are high. Remember, those New York City dominatrixes thought
they were safe from the law as long as BDSM didn't count as sex. But as soon as
someone decided BDSM counted as sex, those dominatrixes were arrested.

It's just one more example of how sexual stigma for different kinds of sex is constantly
intertwined. No type of consensual sexuality can express itself freely until people agree
that among consenting adults, there is no 'should’. The Romans, those ancient
imperialists, used to say: Divide and conquer. When consensual sexualities are scared
of each other, we will continue to be conquered. As long as vanilla people are afraid
of BDSM... as long as BDSMers are afraid of being seen as sexual... as long
as the social penalties for being a slut or a whore are incredibly steep... as long
as sex workers are stigmatized and criminalized... everyone will be bound by these
oppressive standards.

KOK ok

The Embodied Side of BDSM versus Sex

Although Part 1 was all about how the divide between BDSM and sex is often
nonsensical, or purely political, or socially constructed... that doesn't mean that the
divide does not exist. I once had a conversation about ignoring social constructs with a
wise friend, who noted dryly that: One-way streets are a social construct. That doesn't
mean we should ignore them. Just because the outside world influences our sexuality,
does not mean that our sexual preferences are invalid.

Some polyamorous BDSMers have very different rules about having sex with outsiders,
as opposed to doing BDSM with outsiders. For example, during the time when I was
considering a transition to polyamory, I myself had a couple relationships where we were
sexually monogamous -- yet my partners agreed that I could do BDSM with people who
weren't my partner. Those particular partners felt jealous and threatened by the idea
of me having sex with another man, but they didn't mind if I did BDSM with
another man. Maybe the feelings of those partners only arose because they categorized
BDSM and sex into weirdly different socially-constructed ways... but those
partners' feelings were nonetheless real, and their feelings deserved respect.

And there are also unmistakable ways that BDSM feels different from sex. There is
something, bodily, that is just plain different about BDSM, as opposed to sex. I often
find myself thinking of BDSM feelings and sexual feelings as flowing down two
parallel channels in my head... sometimes these channels intersect, but sometimes they're
far apart. The BDSM urge strikes me as deeply different, separate, from the sex urge. It
can be fun to combine BDSM and sex, but there are definitely times when I want BDSM
that feel very unlike most times when I want sex.

The biggest political reason why it's difficult to discuss this is the way in which we
currently conceptualize sexuality through orientations: we have built a cultural
“orientation model focused on the idea that acceptable sexuality is built-in, or

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018539
