sponsors. such as American Aiknes, Ray-Ban. Coca-Cola, Proctor & Gamble.
and Revion.

Mr, Brunel's has continued his ventures as both a promoler and panel
judge when he founded and created the international modeling contes!,
Models New Generation Ihat tock place in Guayaquil. Ecuador in 2004. Mr.
Brunel sat on a panel with ihree other professionals in the fashion indushy and
judged over forty-nine young women from over North and Soulh America. Asia.
and Europe. After len days of harsh competition, Jean Luc Brunel crowned the
winner, Alyne Weber. a fifteen year old from Brazil. whom as a result of coming in
first place was awarded over three hundred thousand dollars worth of modeling
contracts. The city of Guayaquil, Ecuador was also thrown inio the international
spotlight as the hos! city for fhe modeling contest. Ihe Modals New Generation
was broadcasted on numerous television network channels including. Fashion
T¥, which transmits to over 202 counties ihroughaui the globe, the entire
Association of Television Channek in Ecuador, Nalional Television of China, and
Rede Globo, Brazil's largest and most popular television network. AHached os
EXHIBIT 6. please find several arlicles regarding the 2004 Models New
Generation Contest os well as ihe beneficiary's leading role within this
prestigious modeling event,

AS a result of the tremendous success of the firsi Models New Generalion
that iook place in Guayaquil. Ecuador in 2004, Mr. Brunel organized ihe second
Model New Generation Contes! which was held in 2006 in the Ecuadorian
capital of Quilo. In order to selaci only the very best new models. several
preliminary. qualifying shows were held in different countries of Lofin Americo
including Bolivia, Panama and Peru. The final contest was held ir: Quito, Ecuador
al the hisloncat Ptaza San Francisco. Mr Brunel sat on a panel wilh three olher
protessionols in the fashion industry and judged over forty-eight young women
from twenty-eqghi different countries from Norih and South America, Asia, and
Europe. After ter days of harsh competition. Jean Luc Brunel crowned the
winner. Ginia Lapina. an eighieen year-old. from Latvio, whom as a resull of
coming in first place was awarded over three hundred thousand dollars worlh af
modeling contracts.

The city of Quito, Ecuador wos also thrown into the international spollight
as the host city for the modeling contest. Again, just like the immense media
expose given io the first Models New Generation competition of 2004, the
2006 Models New Generation competition was broadcast on numerous
television nélwork Channels wncluding, Fashion TV, which tiarsmils to over 202
differen! countnes fhroughoul the globe. the entire Association of Television
Channels in Ecuador. Nahonal Television of China. and Rede Globo, Brazil's
largest and mos! populor fetevision nelwork. Altached as EXHIBIT 7, please tind
several press arlicles regarding the prestigious 2006 Mode Neve Generation

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011986
