330 A Glossary

within a deme, programs are generally similar enough that reasonable syntax-semantics
correlation obtains.

e Derived Hypergraph: The SMEPH hypergraph obtained via modeling a system in terms
of a hypergraph representing its internal states and their relationships. For instance, a
SMEPH vertex represents a collection of internal states that habitually occur in relation to
similar external situations. A SMEPH edge represents a relationship between two SMEPH
vertices (e.g. a similarity or inheritance relationship). The terminology edge /vertex” is
used in this context, to distinguish from the “link / node” terminology used in the context
of the Atomspace.

e DeSTIN — Deep SpatioTemporal Inference Network: A specific CSDLN created by
Itamar Arel, tested on visual perception, and appropriate for integration within CogPrime.

e Dialogue: Linguistic interaction between two or more parties. In a CogPrime context, this
may be in English or another natural language, or it may be in Lojban or Psynese.

e Dialogue Control: The process of determining what to say at each juncture in a dialogue.
This is distinguished from the linguistic aspects of dialogue, language comprehension and
language generation. Dialogue control applies to Psynese or Lojban, as well as to human
natural language.

e Dimensional Embedding: The process of embedding entities from some non-dimensional
space (e.g. the Atomspace) into an n-dimensional Euclidean space. This can be useful in an
AI context because some sorts of queries (e.g. “find everything similar to X”, “find a path
between X and Y”) are much faster to carry out among points in a Euclidean space, than
among entities in a space with less geometric structure.

e Distributed Atomspace: An implementation of an Atomspace that spans multiple com-
putational processes; generally this is done to enable spreading an Atomspace across mul-
tiple machines.

e Dual Network: A network of mental or informational entities with both a hierarchical
structure and a heterarchical structure, and an alignment among the two structures so that
each one helps with the maintenance of the other. This is hypothesized to be a critical
emergent structure, that must emerge in a mind (e.g. in an Atomspace) in order for it to
achieve a reasonable level of human-like general intelligence (and possibly to achieve a high
level of pragmatic general intelligence in any physical environment).

e Efficient Pragmatic General Intelligence: A formal, mathematical definition of general
intelligence (extending the pragmatic general intelligence), that ultimately boils down to:
the ability to achieve complex goals in complex environments using limited computational
resources (where there is a specifically given weighting function determining which goals
and environments have highest priority). More specifically, the definition weighted-sums the
system’s normalized goal-achieving ability over (goal, environment pairs), and where the
weights are given by some assumed measure over (goal, environment pairs), and where the
normalization is done via dividing by the (space and time) computational resources used
for achieving the goal.

e Elegant Normal Form (ENF): Used in MOSES, this is a way of putting programs in
a normal form while retaining their hierarchical structure. This is critical if one wishes
to probabilistically model the structure of a collection of programs, which is a meaningful
operation if the collection of programs is operating within a region of program space where
syntax-semantics correlation holds to a reasonable degree. The Reduct library is used to
place programs into ENF.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013246
