In re Terrorist Attacks on September 11, 2001, 392 F.Supp.2d 539 (2005)

10 A.L.R. Fed. 2d 789

C. Success Foundation
341 The Burnett Plaintiffs claim that Success Foundation
is a sister company to Defendant ITRO and that it “sends
money back and forth with the RO and IRO” and other
sponsors of terror. (Burnett Compl. § 235.) If given the
opportunity to replead its allegations against Success, the
Plaintiffs would allege that, in 1998, Success Foundation
entered into a contract to act as an agent for Defendant
Taibah, which has since been designated a global terrorist.

The complaint does not allege that Success Foundation
knew the money it was transferring between ITRO and
IRO would somehow assist al Qaeda, nor does it allege
facts showing that Success Foundation knew the other
unnamed organizations to which it transferred money
were in the business of supporting terrorism. See Boim IT,
291 F.3d at 1012 (“To hold the defendants liable for
donating money without knowledge of the donee’s
intended criminal use of the funds would impose strict
liability. Nothing in the language of the statute or its
structure or history supports that formulation.”). The
Burnett complaint is against Success Foundation is
dismissed without prejudice.

D. Wa‘el Jalaidan
35] For the reasons the Court found that it has personal
jurisdiction over Mr. Jalaidan, the Court finds the
Plaintiffs have stated a claim for relief against him.
Plaintiffs have alleged facts, that if true, would be
sufficient to prove that he knowingly provided material
support to al Qaeda in the form of financial and logistical
support. See 18 U.S.C. § 2339(A) (including *569
“currency or other financial securities, financial services,

. weapons, [and] personnel” in definition of material
support). The Federal complaint does not allege that
Jalaidan directed an enterprise and the RICO claim is
dismissed. Wa‘el Jalaidan’s motions to dismiss the
Ashton, Burnett, and Federal complaints are denied

E. IIRO
361 Similarly, for the reasons the Court found that
Plaintiffs made a prima facie demonstration that ITRO has
purposefully directed its activities at the United States, the
Court finds they have stated a claim under the ATA in
that ITRO has allegedly funded al Qaeda training camps in
Afghanistan, supported al Qaeda guest houses, and been
involved in other terrorist attacks and plots. See 18 U.S.C.

WESTLAW

§ 2339(A) (including “currency or other financial
securities, financial services, weapons, [and]
personnel” in definition of material support). IIRO’s
motions to dismiss the Ashton, Burnett, and Federal
complaints are denied.

F. Rabita Trust
371 Rabita Trust moves to dismiss the complaints against
it for failure to state a claim. These motions are denied
without prejudice until this Court determines whether it
has personal jurisdiction over Rabita Trust.

G. SAAR Network Defendants

1. Entities
The Burnett and Ashton complaints’ allegations against
the SAAR Network entities are substantially similar to
one another.’ Paragraph 267 of the Burnett complaint and
paragraph 339 of the Ashton complaint both state:

Co-conspirators, material sponsors, and/or aiders and
abettors of the SAAR Network include Defendants ...
African Muslim Agency, ... Grove Corporate, Inc.,
Heritage Education Trust, International Institute of
Islamic Thought, Mar—Jac Investments, Inc., Mar—Jac
Poultry, Inc., ... Reston Investments, Inc., ... Safa Trust,
.. and York Foundation, all located doing business or
registered to do business in the United States.
In support of their claims against these Defendants,
Plaintiffs rely primarily on their allegations against the
“SAAR Foundation and network.” (See Burnett Compl.
qf 261-67; Ashton Compl. J 333-39.) The SAAR
Foundation, allegedly a financial sponsor of terror, was
formed in the 1970s by a group of Muslim scholars and
scientists. (Burnett Compl. J 261; Ashton Compl. ¥ 333.)
It was incorporated in Virginia in 1983 and dissolved in
December 2000. (Burnett Compl. § 261; Ashton Compl. J
333.) Its largest donor is the al Rajhi family of Saudi
Arabia. (Burnett Compl. § 261; Ashton Compl. § 333.)

The complaints claim that over one hundred “affiliated
organizations” are registered or are doing business at one
of the SAAR Foundation’s addresses in Herndon,
Virginia, but many “do not maintain a physical presence

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017928
