endorsement indicated your status in the White House and that Trump’s level of flattery
was a convincing indication that you had an unbreakable bond with him and that you
were, in his eyes, and in his White House, something close to omnipotent. Trump, with his
love of generals, had even for a moment wanted to make Michael Flynn his vice president.

Intoxicated by Trump’s flattery during the campaign, Flynn—a lower-tier general and
quite a flaky one at that—had become something of a Trump dancing monkey. When
former generals make alliances with political candidates, they customarily position
themselves as providers of expertise and figures of a special maturity. But Flynn had
become quite a maniacal partisan, part of the Trump traveling road show, one of the
ranters and ravers opening Trump rallies. This all-in enthusiasm and loyalty had helped
win him access to Trump’s ear, into which he poured his anti-intelligence-community
theories.

During the early part of the transition, when Bannon and Kushner had seemed joined at
the hip, this was part of their bond: an effort to disintermediate Flynn and his often
problematic message. A subtext in the White House estimation of Flynn, slyly insinuated
by Bannon, was that Defense Secretary Mattis was a four-star general and Flynn but a
three-star.

“T like Flynn, he reminds me of my uncles,” said Bannon. “But that’s the problem: he
reminds me of my uncles.”

Bannon used the general odor that had more and more attached to Flynn among
everybody except the president to help secure a seat for himself on the National Security
Council. This was, for many in the national security community, a signal moment in the
effort by the nationalist right wing to seize power. But Bannon’s presence on the council
was just as much driven by the need to babysit the impetuous Flynn, prone to antagonizing
almost everyone else in the national security community. (Flynn was “a colonel in a
general’s uniform,” according to one senior intelligence figure.)

Flynn, like everyone around Trump, was besotted by the otherworldly sense of
opportunity that came with, against all odds, being in the White House. And inevitably, he
had been made more grandiose by it.

In 2014, Flynn had been roughly cashiered out of government, for which he blamed his
many enemies in the CIA. But he had energetically set himself up in business, joining the
ranks of former government officials profiting off the ever growing globalist corporate-
financial-government policy and business networks. Then, after flirting with several other
Republican presidential candidates, he bonded with Trump. Both Flynn and Trump were
antiglobalists—or, anyway, they believed the United States was getting screwed in global
transactions. Still, money was money, and Flynn, who, when he retired, had been
receiving a few hundred thousand a year on his general’s pension, was not turning any of
it down. Various friends and advisers—including Michael Ledeen, a longtime anti-Iran

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019962
