Jeffrey Epstein Pedophile Billionaire and His Sex Den - The Daily - Page 1 of 3

emer

i

BLOGS & STORIES —

The Billionaire Pedophile's Sex Den

by Conchita Sarnoff

July 22, 2010 | 11:46pm

x

BEAD THIS SKIP THAT

The Daily Beast reveals new details about the twisted sex life of
Jeffrey Epstein and his penchant for underage girls. Conchita
Sarnoff on his massages, sex toys, and questionable deals. Also:

¢ Nude images of young girls were scattered around the house and the
bathroom soap was shaped like sex organs

¢ Staff trolled for fresh recruits to make sure Epstein had two or three
massage appointments each day

¢ The house manager has been sentenced to a longer prison term than Newseom
Epstein—for trying to sell notes regarding massage appointments

¢ Epstein gave $1 million to his friend Jean Luc Brunel when he was starting the modeling agency MC2

* According to a former bookkeeper, young girls were brought to the U.S. by MC2—often from Eastern
Europe—then traveled on Epstein’s private jets

Jeffrey Epstein’s loyal friends say that his prosecution was unduly harsh, rather than outrageously lenient. They insist
that his sexual habits, although obsessive and unusual, were mostly legal and essentially harmless. As the police
records aitest, the girls brought to El Brillo Way were routinely told they could “say no” at any time during a massage
as Epstein escalated contact in a step-by-step assault that was remarkably similar in every victim’s statement: First
she would be asked to remove her shirt, then her pants. He would attempt to fondle her buttocks and breasts as he
masturbated, then bring out a large vibrator. There was sometimes digital penetration, and the more willing girls were
lured into full-blown sexual relations with both Epstein and Nadia Marcinkova, who was referred to in press accounts
and police reports as Epstein’s live-in “sex slave.”

A former bookkeeper in the Miami office, who also arranged visas for girls
traveling to the U.S., confirmed that MC2 girls became frequent guests on
Epstein’s private jets.

It’s true that some underage girls may have fied about their age, and some came to the house voluntarily several
times—although, according to Florida statutes, none of that has any bearing on the criminality of the contact,
particularly if the girl was 16 or younger. But what is particularly disturbing about this case—judging by arrangements
at the Palm Beach house—is that Epstein, a billionaire hedge-fund manager, organized his life around this sexual
compulsion in an open and methodical way that suggests he felt he was beyond the law.

According to police who executed a search warrant, the house was

* Conchita Sarnoff? decorated with large, framed photos of nude young girls, and similar

Billionaire Pedophile Goes images were found stashed in an armoire and on the computers seized
Free at the house (although police found only bare cables where other

computers had been). Some bathrooms were stocked with soap in the

SlE-nm- 10 L002 aI
http://www.thedailybeast.com/blogs-and-stories/2010-07-22/jeffrey-epstein-pedophile-billi.... 7/23/2010

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021666
