and hard to predict, and there aren't any good medical resources on the matter. Maybe the
pain points to something unusual about my constitution. Maybe there's a reason it's
harder for me to have orgasms than the average woman.

But the vaginal pain itself is not overwhelming, on the rare occasions that it crops up.
And the vaginal pain is not even close to the most central issue of my sexuality -- or the
biggest influence on my orgasmic ability.

TK OK ok

I. S&M

I identify my sexuality as BDSM -- a.k.a. kink, leather, fetish, S&M, or B&D. BDSM is a
6-for-4 acronym that encompasses a host of related activities, including bondage,
discipline, dominance, submission, sadism and masochism. And yeah, I'm really into it:
my desires are heavy and overwhelming; I dream of agony, of terrified screams for
mercy. I've gone so far as to describe BDSM as my sexual orientation.

Before someone goes leaping to conclusions, there is a definite difference between good
pain and bad pain.” The occasional pain I feel within my vagina is not good pain; it's
not even interesting. It's just annoying. It's not sexy or enjoyable at all.

Some of us in the BDSM community have felt lifelong tendencies towards BDSM. We
have conversations ending with thrilled exclamations: You mean, you tied up your
Barbie dolls as a child too?! But BDSM is widely misunderstood and negatively
stereotyped, and thus, many of us also went through periods of rejection. We've
internalized so much anti-BDSM stigma from society that, at times, we freak out. We
deny or erase our BDSM desires.

That's what happened to me when I was in middle school. As my sexuality made itself
more and more evident, my anxiety peaked. I'd been producing secret sadomasochistic art
and stories without labeling what I was doing, but I stopped. I blockaded my thoughts of
violent power-play. I closed it all away as thoroughly as I could.

I still felt sexual desire -- I mean, I was entering my teens, so of course I did. Sometimes I
felt so much desire, like in the middle of some inconvenient class, that I'd have to rest my
burning forehead on the cold desk. I would close my eyes, and breathe deeply, and wait
for the erotic shiver to pass. At home, I'd lie around my twin bed and dream about kisses;
imagine men's hair and skin and touch.

Yet it was hard for me to trace my desire, to take control of it. I thought I had no problem
with the idea of masturbation, but when I touched my own lady bits, I went cold.
Vibrators did nothing but bore me.

I had excellent sex education, thank goodness. I went through a Unitarian Universalist
sex education program that talked carefully about different experiences, that made space
for gay and lesbian and bisexual and transgender and queer folks. I didn't only learn
about sexually transmitted infections and pregnancy and condom usage; I was also
encouraged to explore my sexuality, to value it. But this marvelous curriculum did not
include BDSM and other non-standard sexual identities. Nor did it include much advice
on how to negotiate sexual encounters with my partners. So, although I internalized many

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018498
