However, I think (or would like to think? augh) that most girls are not like that, and that
you should not plan for girls to be like that. I'd definitely rather offend someone by
asking than offend them by not asking.

Holly implies that people who don't like explicit communication should effectively be
banned from kissing: she says, they can go without ever being kissed until they wise
up.” I have a certain cantankerous sympathy for this perspective, and I have said similar
things myself in the past. But my research into pickup artists made me wonder about
whether this perspective is tenable, given a world in which most people seem to enjoy
and engage in a great deal of tacit communication.

Speaking only for myself, I must admit that I like it when a man can read my unspoken
signals well enough that he can tell when to kiss me without asking aloud. Sometimes it
can be nice when a guy asks. But if he can read my tacit communication about kissing,
that is a signal that he can read a lot of my other tacit communication as well.

Furthermore, if many people really enjoy unspoken social games and strategic
uncertainty, then the game will never go away. Evidence that people enjoy those things
does not only include the pickup artist subculture -- romantic comedies and romance
novels consistently find a market, after all.

Additionally, part of improving sexual communication means learning more about
unspoken communication -- not just spoken communication. The pioneering social
economist Peter F. Drucker once said, The most important thing in communication is to
hear what isn't being said. This maxim is no less true when it comes to sex than it is in
any other area of human endeavor. PUAs have spent years gathering information on tacit
sexual communication, so perhaps one feminist goal should be to try and understand what
they've learned, such as the characteristics of excellent social calibration.

Some feminists and BDSMers exist who already think a lot about teaching implicit or
unspoken communication. On the feminist side, one webpage about sexual violence
features an image of a woman saying: I stopped kissing you back. I pushed your hand
away. I said I wanted to leave. It all meant 'NO'. On the BDSM side, there is often an
expectation that BDSM partners will discuss their experience and reactions once they are
done doing BDSM with each other, so as to learn more about how to read each other's
tacit signals. However, I have never encountered a BDSM seminar on the topic of non-
verbal communication, though I've attended several on verbal communication.

My perspective on non-verbal communication is not without precedent among feminist
BDSMers, though my willingness to deal extensively with PUAs might be. Still, I believe
that non-verbal communication is not taught well, and that feminists and BDSMers in
particular do not spend enough time discussing its role in sexual interactions. Given that
both communities emphasize that consent and communication are crucially intertwined,
perhaps both communities might draw insight from some PUA conceptions of kino,
calibration and other ways of examining implicit communication.

I once started a thread about pickup artists on a major feminist blog, to which one
feminist responded: I'm getting so sick of these PUA threads.... So I'll just come out and
say it: PUAs rape women through coercion and manipulation. Full stop.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018671
