TERSON

to settle out of court with his

a woman who went by the alias
1-dollar lawsuit against Epstein.
1e claimed, Epstein was fifty-two
ind her complaint, which was
world an early glimpse of what
of his secret world, looked like

loney manager with a secret cli-
llionaires,” the lawsuit alleged.
adous wealth, power and influ-
al home in New York and also
o, St. Thomas and Palm Beach,
sn Epstein’s conduct while at his

e complaint continued:

Epstein has a sexual preference
inor girls. He engaged ina plan
d access to primarily economi-
girls in his home, sexually
n gave them money. In or about
ipproximately 16 years old, fell
ie one of his victims.
slief, Jeffrey Epstein carried out
rls in Florida, New York, and on
Little St. James, in St. Thomas.

1 the use of young girls to recruit :

192

Firtuy Ricw

underage girls. (Upon information and belief, the young girl
who brought Jane Doe to Epstein was herself a minor victim
of Epstein, and will therefore not be named in this Com-
plaint.) Under Epstein’s plan, underage girls were recruited
ostensibly to give a wealthy man a massage for monetary
compensation in his Palm Beach mansion. The recruiter
would be contacted when Epstein was planning to be at his
Palm Beach residence or soon after he had arrived there.
Epstein or someone on his behalf would direct the recruiter
to bring one or more underage girls to the residence. The
recruiter, upon information and belief, generally sought out
economically disadvantaged underaged girls from western
Palm Beach County who would be enticed by the money
being offered—generally $200 to $300 per “massage”
session —and who were perceived as less likely to complain
to authorities or have credibility if allegations of improper
conduct were made. This was an important element of
Epstein’s plan.

Epstein’s plan reflected a particular pattern and method.
Upon arrival at Epstein’s mansion, the underaged victim
would be introduced to Sarah Kellen, Epstein’s assistant, who
gathered the girl’s personal information, including her name
and telephone number. Ms. Kellen would then bring the girl
up a flight of stairs to a bedroom that contained a massage
table in addition to other furnishings. There were photo-
graphs of nude women lining the stairway hall and in the
bedroom. The girl would then find herself alone in the room
with Epstein, who would be wearing only a towel. He would
then remove his towel and lie naked on the massage table,
and direct the girl to remove her clothes. Epstein would then

193

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010534
