From Inclusive Fitness to Spiritual
Striving

The notion of “selfish genes”
(and, by extension, selfish organisms)
was popularized in Richard Dawkins’
1976 book by that title. Not long
afterwards, an article appeared in
Science that presented evidence that the
most vicious members of a warlike tribe
in South America had the most wives
and children. The underlying notion was
one of (genetic) survival of the fittest:
Those warriors who were particularly
vicious were more likely to contribute
their genes to the gene pool.
Methodological objections have left this
an open question, however, and new
evidence now exists that calls this
interpretation into question (1): the most
aggressive warriors may have more
children but they have /ower indices of
reproductive success than their milder
brethren in part perhaps because the
most aggressive warriors and their
offspring are also more likely to be the
targets of revenge killings. These new
data are entirely consistent with John
Cacioppo’s argument that the content of
the human gene pool has more to do
with the reproductive success of one’s
offspring than one’s own reproductive
success. Cacioppo argued further that
this genetic selection resulted in a social
brain that seeks meaning and connection
with individuals and with social entities
(e.g., groups) that extend beyond other
individuals.

In the next chapter, theologian
Don Browning also embraces the
concept of inclusive fitness and, through
the writings of Thomas Aquinas, shows
how religion serves the human need for
meaning and connection through the
ethics they advocate, the congregations
they form, the institutions they represent
and the God they serve. In his view,

?

Page |30

religion serves to extend love and
connection beyond kin. He further
argues that new developments in the
sciences and long-standing traditions in
theology constitute fertile ground on
which to build new and testable
hypotheses regarding our fundamental
human nature.

1. S. Beckerman et al., Proc. Natl.
Acad. Sci. U.S. A. 106, 8134
(May 19, 2009).

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021276
