134

also consults with other bureaucracies that may have a stake in the issue. The draft
policy proposals are then forwarded to the Leading Small Groups (448), which
deliberate, vet, and sign off on the policy proposals before sending them to the
Politburo and the Politburo Standing Committee for a final decision. These leading
small groups, which range in size from five to a dozen members, are normally
chaired by a Politburo member and include a range of ministerial-level officials
relevant to that functional policy area. Some meet at regular intervals (biweekly),
whereas most convene on an ad hoc basis when necessary. In this formal, ministry-
or department-initiated process, the ultimate decision-making authority lies with the

Politburo Standing Committee.

At this level of policy formulation, of particular relevance to China’s international
influence activities are the External Propaganda Leading Group (WHE AS 46),
which has a dual bureaucratic identity as the State Council Information Office (B4-#1
Hs); the Central Committee Propaganda Department (PHAREHRB); the Central
Committee United Front Work Department (FHP RAKE); the Central Committee
Foreign Affairs Commission (F#}22 AS);' and the Central Committee Education
Leading Small Group (RB). Although bureaucratically ranked slightly lower, the
Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the Ministry of Education, the newly created Voice
of China, and the Xinhua News Agency all exercise policy formulation and oversight

roles in their functional domains.

There is also a parallel top-down policy process initiated by one of the top leaders
on the Politburo Standing Committee. As a rule, Xi Jinping, the CCP general
secretary, has broad authority and may issue a brief directive on a matter he
believes should receive extra attention or priority. (Typically, such directives are
short comments he writes on reports that come across his desk.) Otherwise, only
a Politburo Standing Committee (PBSC) member overseeing a particular portfolio
can issue such directives on matters that fall into his area of responsibility. Such
comments are then related to the functional bureaucracies and can lead to the
formulation of a new policy, the modification of an existing policy, or other

actions.

On the Politburo and its seven-member PBSC, several members have direct
responsibility for external affairs. As the chair of the Foreign Affairs Commission, Xi
has overall authority on all aspects of China’s foreign relations. Wang Huning, the

Standing Committee member responsible for Party affairs, ideology, and propaganda,

Appendix 1

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020593
