Code Enforcement Board Meeting Minutes 04/17/08

demolition permit had been issued for this property on November 11, 2007 with a
final inspection of February 15, 2008. There was a building permit initially issued
on the site which stayed the requirement to seed and irrigate. The building permit
had since been rescinded by the contractor which meant it was no longer a
construction site and the lot had to be maintained. He had numerous meetings
with the property owner and the property manager who was present to speak
today if necessary. Mr. Walton said that as of yesterday, an irrigation system had
been installed and the property had been hydro-seeded. They are now in
compliance with the ordinance. The violation was not corrected prior to the time
specified but was corrected prior to the hearing. The Town recommends the
Board find the violation occurred but has been corrected, assess administrative
costs in the amount of $150.00 and no further fines be imposed and the case
closed.

MOTION BY MS. DUEMLER TO FIND THE VIOLATION OCCURRED
BUT HAS BEEN CORRECTED AND ASSESS ADMINISTRATIVE
COSTS OF $150.00

SECONDED BY MR. KOEPPEL

MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY

H. Case # 08-2484, 515 N. County Road, Trump Properties, LLC
Violation of Chapter 18, Section 18-205 of the Town of Palm Beach Code of
Ordinances, the Architectural Commission may attach conditions to any approval
it grants (Declaration of Use Agreement).

Lead Code Enforcement Walton presented the facts of the case and said the
previous owner of the property, Abe Gosman, had been granted approval by the
Architectural Commission to do some remodeling. One of the conditions of this
approval was that the hedge along the front of the property be maintained in the
condition it was in at the time the approval was granted. This agreement was a
binding agreement, which passes on to any subsequent property owner. The
agreement was made January 31, 1990. The subsequent buyer of this property
was Mr. Trump, Trump Properties, LLC and some remodeling work was done,
removing the previous hedge. A new hedge was planted to replace the original
hedge and that one has now been removed. This is a violation of the agreement. A
letter was received from Mr. Royce, representing Mr. Trump, asking for a
postponement of today’s hearing. The Town does not feel this matter should be
postponed.

Mr. Randolph summarized the letter from Mr. Royce which indicated the ficus
hedge keeps dying and they want to replace it with something different. They plan
on hiring a landscape architect to go before the next Architectural Commission
meeting to get approval to install a hedge in an attempt to meet the conditions of
the declaration of use agreement. Mr. Randolph said he had discussions with Mr.
Royce and Mr. Walton and Mr. Royce was told the Town could not recommend a
postponement and the recommendation would be that they are found in violation,
assessed the $150.00

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016607
