TOTL WS LEU GP VED VR DUS LO WIL) iD Pe WeT DULU SIT AUS,

53, I have seen reports saying or implying that I had sex with former President Bill
Clinton on Little Saint James Island. Former President Bill Clinton was present on the Island at
a time when I was also present on the Island, but I have never had sexual relations with Clinton,
nor have I ever claimed to have had such relations. [I have never seen him have sexual relations
with anyone.

a To as undarctand that Esrtain eonehod «a aan aenceniiasn aaeanesant ath tha

View this image >
http://U.S. District Court

Intensive coverage prompted by the court filings has hinted that Clinton abruptly ceased his flying with Epstein in 2005, not terribly
long before he was arrested, “perhaps because of events related to Epstein’s sexual abuse of children.” The implication is that
Clinton may have known trouble of the worst kind was coming and decided to get out while he could. In fact, the logs show all of

Clinton’s flights came in 2002 and 2003, with not a single appearance aloft recorded in 2004 or 2005.

The closest potential link to Clinton in the period closer to Epstein’s fall, the public record suggests, comes from one of his longtime

confidants, former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers.

The flight logs indicate Summers flew on Epstein’s jet as far back as 1998, but also on April 15, 2004, September 14, 2005, and
December 21, 2005. The final trip came 10 days after Summers got married, and the log for the flight — from Bedford,

Massachusetts, to the Virgin Islands — shows what appears to be his new bride on board, as well as Ghislaine Maxwell, but not

Epstein.
et ae eee hesbGM, LARRY 4 USm gummces LV |
wis} WW | ON itsy | Bep | hed NELNM iV

View this image >
Palm Beach County Court

Epstein was a significant donor to Harvard University, of which Summers was president at the time. According to a spokesperson for
Summers, on a few occasions when Epstein was flying to where Summers was also traveling, he accepted rides on the billionaire’s

jet.

Attorneys in the two cases have attempted to get the court to permit discovery from Clinton himself, but have been stymied by
motions from Epstein’s lawyers. Court records show they have also tried unsuccessfully to depose Donald Trump, former New Mexico
Gov. Bill Richardson, former Sony Music head Tommy Mottola, and magician David Copperfield. Notably, a list of 73 proposed

witnesses in Roberts’ trial does not include Clinton.

The tale of Epstein and his sexual activities is undoubtedly a fascinating, and harrowing, one. But with the star witness in one case
swearing under oath that she has no such evidence, and everyone else in a position to know keeping their mouths firmly shut, it is at
this point extremely difficult to draw even a hazy, crooked, dotted line between Epstein’s depredations, in the bedroom or aloft, and

William Jefferson Clinton.

BuzzFeed News reporters Alex Campbell, Kyle Blaine, and Megan Apper contributed to this report.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022693
