flows, which led to examples of some of his universal singularities that he claimed
could be found in all real physical, biological and psychological systems. For some
examples: One of his archetypal singularities was a boundary at x = 0 such that the
flow couldn’t spread from where it was in x>0O into x< 0 and was therefore like the
border, the membrane, between the inside and outside of a cell as well as the
hoped for sociopolitical functions of the Great Wall of China and the Maginot Line. If
we were to blow up the boundary line from two to three dimensions, R’—R®, the
straight boundary line becomes a cylinder for directionally organizing and
connecting flows as in blood vessels, oil pipes, cables and wires. Since production
and delivery need not occur at similar rates, temporary storage is required and may
take the form of a spherical blow-up in the vertical segment of R® leading to an open
bottle which may serve as a dead end storage branch of a network of connected
cylinders. In the conceptual reductionism of Semiophysics, Thom said, “...life is
essentially a question of embankment, canalization and the struggle to stem
dispersion.” These structures of mind and world are built and maintained.
Coagulation of blood is an example of a canalized fluid repairing gaps like a
tubeless tire. Thom considered apparent the problem of making something from
nothing, birth, that of finding the hidden sources: the bubbling spring emerges from
an unseen, underground network of canalized fluid flow converging on the apparent
source, birth being the invisible becoming visible. In contrast, a canalized flow
emptying into lake can represent disappearance as a flow.

Mathematicians from all over the world attended Thom’s 65 birthday
celebration at HES. His Field’s Medal winning work on the topology of differentiable
(smooth) manifolds, cobordism and related ideas, was mentioned frequently, and
great homage paid to him with respect to these areas of his work. However, in two
days of lectures of personal and professional tribute by the world’s great
mathematicians, his work relevant to Catastrophe Theory and Semiophysics was
not mentioned, even once. The form taken by mathematicians’ most severe
judgments is silence. As the New York Times’ Natalie Angier’s comments indicated,

this is not the time for the intuitive conduct of applied mathematics.

181

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013681
