Case 1:19-cv-03377 Document 1-8 Filed 04/16/19 Page 6 of 16

http://www.vanityfair.com/news/2003/03/jeffrey-epstein-200303

“T think we both possess the skill of seeing patterns,” says Wexner. “But Jeffrey sees patterns in
politics and financial markets, and I see patterns in lifestyle and fashion trends. My skills are not
in investment strategy, and, as everyone who knows Jeffrey knows, his are not in fashion and
design. We frequently discuss world trends as each of us sees them.”

By the time Epstein met Wexner, the latter was a retail legend who had built a $3 billion
empire—one that now includes Victoria’s Secret, Express, and Bath & Body Works—from
$5,000 lent him by his aunt. “Wexner saw in Jeffrey the type of person who had the potential to
realize his [Jeffrey’s] dreams,” says someone who has worked closely with both men. “He gave
Jeffrey the ball, and Jeffrey hit it out of the park.”

Wexner, through a trust, bought the town house in which Epstein now lives for a reported $13.2
million in 1989. In 1993, Wexner married Abigail Koppel, a 31-year-old lawyer, and the
newlyweds relocated to Ohio; in 1996, Epstein moved into the town house. Public documents
suggest that the house is still owned by the trust that bought it, but Epstein has said that he now
owns the house.

Wexner trusts Epstein so completely that he has assigned him the power of fiduciary over all of
his private trusts and foundations, says a source close to Wexner. In 1992, Epstein even
persuaded Wexner to put him on the board of the Wexner Foundation in place of Wexner’s ailing
mother. Bella Wexner recovered and demanded to be reinstated. Epstein has said they settled by
splitting the foundation in two.

Epstein does not care that he comes between family members. In fact, he sees it as his job. He
tells people, “I am there to represent my client, and if my client needs protecting—sometimes
even from his own family—then it’s often better that people hate me, not the client.”

“You’ve probably heard I’m vicious in my representation of my clients,” he tells people proudly;
Leah Kleman describes his haggling over art prices as something like a scene out of the movie
Mad Max: Beyond Thunderdome. Even a former mentor says he’s seen “the dark side” of
Epstein, and a Bear Stearns source recalls a meeting in which Epstein chewed out a team making
a presentation for Wexner as being so brutal as to be “irresponsible.”

One reporter, in fact, received three threats from Epstein while preparing a piece. They were
delivered in a jocular tone, but the message was clear: There will be trouble for your family if I
don’t like the article.

On the other hand, Epstein is clearly very generous with friends. Joe Pagano, an Aspen-based
venture capitalist, who has known Epstein since before his Bear Stearns days, can’t say enough
nice things: “I have a boy who’s dyslexic, and Jeffrey’s gotten close to him over the years....
Jeffrey got him into music. He bought him his first piano. And then as he got to school he had
difficulty ... in studying ... so Jeffrey got him interested in taking flying lessons.”

Rosa Monckton recalls Epstein telling her that her daughter, Domenica, who suffers from Down

syndrome, needed the sun, and that Rosa should feel free to bring her to his house in Palm Beach
anytime.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018004
