4.2.12
WC: 191694

Some examples from my personal Hall of Fame of true First Amendment believers:

- Women against Pornography and Censorship is an organization that tries to educate
the public about what they perceive to be the sexist evils of pornography. But at the
same time, they try to educate about the evils of censorship, reminding their listeners
that if the government is given the power to censor pornography today, then
tomorrow it may demand the power to prohibit the publication of information about
birth control and abortion.

- Action for Children’s Television strongly opposed much of the daily fare to which our
children are exposed on the boob tube, but they also oppose censorship of television
by the Federal Communications Commission.

- Those Jews, including some Holocaust survivors, who defended the rights of the Nazis
to march through Skokie and who now defend the rights of hateful Holocaust deniers
to publish their garbage.

- Those pro-choice activists who refuse to call the cops when right-to-lifers picket in
front of abortion clinics.

One group that is in danger of being drummed out of the First Amendment Hall of Fame is the
American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU). Until recently, it was a charter member. But in recent
years some of its branches have gotten soft on the First Amendment when it comes to racist,
sexist and homophobic speech on college campuses. The ACLU has refused to defend the rights
of the CIA to recruit on campus. It was nowhere to be seen when Dartmouth University
disciplined members of the right-wing Dartmouth Review for engaging in “vexatious,”
“aggressive,” and “confrontational” speech against an African-American professor and as
mentioned earlier, some of its leaders defended the right of pro-Palestinian students to shut down
a pro-Israel speaker. As of now, the ACLU is still a member, but it is getting close to being
placed on probation.

If you want to join the First Amendment Club, you must attend at least one free speech rally in
support of views that you thoroughly despise. I mean really hate! It is not enough to say, as
some do about the Mappelthorpe photographs, “Well, that’s really not my taste, but I don’t see
why others who enjoy that kind of thing shouldn’t be free to see it.” That’s cheating. You must
find something that really disgusts, angers, or offends you to the core. Condemn the content, but
go out and defend its right to be expressed. Then come and claim your First Amendment
membership card. Too few Americans qualify for the card. Until more do, the First Amendment
will always be at risk, because it is always being confronted with new and unanticipated
challenges.

156

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017243
