334 A Glossary

of distributions. In general, the term may be used to refer to any truth value involving
intervals or related constructs, such as indefinite probabilities.

e Indefinite Probability: An extension of a standard imprecise probability, comprising a
credible interval for the means of probability distributions governed by a given second-order
distribution.

e Indefinite Truth Value: An OpenCog TruthValue object wrapping up an indefinite prob-
ability

e Induction: In PLN, a specific inference rule (A > B, A > C, therefore B > C). In general,
the process of heuristically inferring that what has been seen in multiple examples, will be
seen again in new examples. Induction in the broad sense, may be carried out in OpenCog
by methods other than PLN induction. When emphasis needs to be laid on the particular
PLN inference rule, the phrase PLN Induction” is used.

e Inference: Generally speaking, the process of deriving conclusions from assumptions. In
an OpenCog context, this often refers to the PLN inference system. Inference in the broad
sense is distinguished from general learning via some specific characteristics, such as the
intrinsically incremental nature of inference: it proceeds step by step.

e Inference Control: A cognitive process that determines what logical inference rule (e.g.
what PLN rule) is applied to what data, at each point in the dynamic operation of an
inference process.

e Integrative AGI: An AGI architecture, like CogPrime, that relies on a number of different
powerful, reasonably general algorithms all cooperating together. This is different from an
AGI architecture that is centered on a single algorithm, and also different than an AGI
architecture that expects intelligent behavior to emerge from the collective interoperation
of a number of simple elements (without any sophisticated algorithms coordinating their
overall behavior).

e Integrative Cognitive Architecture: A cognitive architecture intended to support inte-
grative AGI.

e Intelligence: An informal, natural language concept. General intelligence” is one slightly
more precise specification of a related concept; Universal intelligence” is a fully precise
specification of a related concept. Other specifications of related concepts made in the
particular context of CogPrime research are the pragmatic general intelligence and the
efficient pragmatic general intelligence.

e Intension: In PLN, the intention of a node consists of Atoms representing properties of
the entity the node represents.

e Intentional memory: A system’s knowledge of its goals and their subgoals, and associa-
tions between these goals and procedures and contexts (e.g. cognitive schematics).

e Internal Simulation World: A simulation engine used to simulate an external environ-
ment (which may be physical or virtual), used by an AGI system as its mind’s eye” in order
to experiment with various action‘ q sequences and envision their consequences, or observe
the consequences of various hypothetical situations. Particularly important for dealing with
episodic knowledge.

e Interval Algebra: Allen Interval Algebra, a mathematical theory of the relationships be-
tween time intervals. CogPrime utilizes a fuzzified version of classic Interval Algebra.

e IRC Learning (Imitation, Reinforcement, Correction): Learning via interaction with
a teacher, involving a combination of imitating the teacher, getting explicit reinforcement
signals from the teacher, and having one’s incorrect or suboptimal behaviors guided toward
betterness by the teacher in real-time. This is a large part of how young humans learn.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013250
