85

The SinoVision/Qiaobao story is illustrative of Beijing’s push to dominate Chinese-
language media in the United States. SinoVision, Qiaobao, and the Sino American Times
(= 3HET#R) all belong to the Asian Culture and Media Group (2 B= WIL SB).
Sources in these firms say that the Overseas Chinese Affairs Office of the State Council
of PRC (FEHB BiB iH 4) set up the firm in the early 1990s but hid its financial role

in these companies.

All the major executives of these firms appear to have been either appointed directly

or approved by the Overseas Chinese Affairs Office.*? Most of the major executives

and editors in these businesses served either as editors or reporters for the China News
Service or in the Overseas Chinese Office of the State Council. The group’s flagship
newspaper, Qiaobao, is divided into two divisions: the Western US Qiaobao (RHE id)
and the Eastern United States. Qiaobao (2H Arik). The president of the Western division
is also the chairman of the board of directors of Rhythm Media Group, a corporation
that consists of Qigobao and a few other media outlets, including radio stations in
Seattle and elsewhere.”? The chairman worked for the official China News Service (#
#4) for many years as a reporter before coming to the United States to establish the
Western US Qiaobao in the 1990s. The China News Service is a branch of the Overseas
Chinese Affairs Office. In 2015, the service described the work of the top executives of
the Eastern US Qiaobao’s (27 HF48) work as part of the PRC’s broader push to strengthen
its “soft power” and fight back against “Western media hegemony.”*? Qiaobao is the

sole major newspaper to use simplified Chinese characters in an effort to appeal to
immigrants from mainland China living abroad. Almost all the news stories in Qiaobao
about China, the Sino-US relationship, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and other important issues
important to China are taken directly from official Chinese media outlets or websites,
including CCTV, Xinhua, and the People’s Daily. Its current editor is I-Der Jeng, and in an
email communication with Foreign Policy magazine, he stated that the paper receives no
editorial direction from Beijing.** However, like its parent company, numerous reporters

and editors on the paper come from China’s state-owned press outlets.?°

The group’s main TV outlet is SinoVision. It operates two twenty-four-hour channels
(one Chinese and one English language), and it is on the program lineups of cable
systems covering about thirty million people. SinoVision’s website (http://www
.Sinovision.net) ranks twelfth among all the Chinese websites in the United States. Like
its sister newspapers, SinoVision was established in 1990 as part of the PRC’s first push
to establish propaganda outlets in the United States. It is headquartered in New York
City, with branches in Boston, Washington, DC, Chicago, Los Angeles, San Francisco,

and Seattle. According to Wang Aibing (£32%k), a former executive of SinoVision,

Section 6

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020544
