VORKVILLE

xen commen

22055
soy a vg
as a

Vecas hook h inspired <4
Olympian to turn tricks

The area, defined by its dearth of all-glass towers and
plethora of tree-lined streets, has long been a favorite
for blue-bloods looking to live near prep schools and
the FDR Drive — for weekend getaways out East, of
course.

Manhattan
% But as both land and condo prices hit record highs, it’s
£ : :

s te attracting a fresh wave of interest. More than a dozen Cops wrongfully nab tennis ator
é Py 2s new buildings are on the way, and with them a crop of James Blake on way to US Open

x @ buyers who see Yorkville as a place where apartments
L 302. 96th St . ,
2 The Kent are a relative bargain.
3 Carnegie Park
4 205 92nd St. . ,
2 pcp fn Yes, until the Second Avenue subway comes online in
7. Extell'sGristedes site | 13. TheRoseModern | late 2016, public transportation is limited as you

approach the East River. But the Q extension’s
imminent completion — coupled with a new Whole Foods and easy access to parks,
museums, hospitals and other family-friendly perks — all mean people want in ona
neighborhood in the throes of a transformation from nice ‘n’ quiet to construction-
induced, decibel-busting busy.

Check out the S66M ‘crown
jewel of Soho reall estate’

Extell Development sure wants a piece of the action, shelling out $100 million for a
Gristede’s grocery store on 86th Street near First Avenue. (The property giant already

owns at least four tenement buildings in the vicinity, and reports say it’s cobbled
together enough land to build something big.) Extell has also filed plans for two
smaller projects on 92nd Street and Second Avenue, plus, it’s already begun the REAL ESTATE NEWS
foundation of a 30-story building at the corner of 95th and Third Avenue, just a block d realtor.com’
south of the boundary with East Harlem. Called The Kent, sales of 83 luxe two- to five-

Musician Dave Stewart’s

bedroom residences in a handsome brick structure will hit the market in the fourth
House in Toluca Lake Gets
quarter. Talk about flooding the zone! the Hollywood Treatment

Musician Neil Young Is
Saying ‘Aloha’ to Compound
on Hawaii’s Big Island

Hot in the Hollywood Hills:
Actress Ali Larter Is Selling
Loft-Style Home in L.A.

Hall of Famer Tom Glavine
Selling Florida Beach Home

Dean Cain’s Colorado Ranch
Needs a Hero to Come to
the Rescue

MORE FROM REALTOR.COM >

Abiker tackles Carl Schurz Park’s scenic promenade along the East River.

ato: NY Post

Note that The Kent, set for completion in the fall of 2017, is replacing a row of walk-up
tenements that used to dominate their block. Similarly, Icon Realty spent less than $50
million for a comparable row on Second Avenue in the 80s, which it is demolishing

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022435
