about cunnilingus being not manly.”

Here's my wrap-up: sympathy is good. Trying to build a better relationship is good. And
I understand that some people may have serious, important reasons that they can't or don't
want to walk away from their romantic partner. (That's one of the things feminism has
always worked towards: giving people many sources of support and safety nets, so people
can leave abusive partners if necessary.) But. Seriously, if your partner sucks? Walking
away is an option -- it's even an option, sometimes, when you think it's not an option. Just
remember that.

te Kk ok
This post can be found on the Internet at:

http://clarissethorn.com/blog/2011/10/31/a-unified-theory-of-orgasm/

BOUNDARIES:
[storytime] I'm Not Your Sex-Crazy Nympho Dreamgirl

This was originally published in 2011 on GoodMenProject.com, and it got a lot of
attention. I think the feelings I outline in this piece are shared by a lot of people, and that
they're one of the reasons people often get angry about porn. But as I said in BDSM
Can Be 'Love Sex' Too, I don't think restricting porn is the answer to these feelings. I
think the answer is encouraging people to be honest, yet respectful and flexible about
their desires. For many people, mainstream porn seems to function as sex education --
and that can be a real problem, because mainstream porn shows a very specific
stereotype of sexuality. But if more people had better and more complete sex education,
then more people would recognize that mainstream porn is a very limited and particular
product, and they'd also recognize that most people aren't interested in actually enacting
that style of sexuality. I also think porn probably receives an unfair portion of the blame
in these debates. It's possible that the current ubiquity of porn is partly to blame for sex-
crazy nympho dreamgirl anxieties, but there are plenty of other stereotype sources in
our culture -- I wish that all the people who talk about banning porn would also talk
about banning romantic comedies!

te Kk ok

I'm Not Your Sex-Crazy Nympho Dreamgirl

There's this cultural image of what it means to be female, and good in bed. The image
includes being young and thin and cisgendered of course, and that can be problematic.
But it also includes a lot of behavioral stuff: the way you squirm, the way you moan,
being Super Excited about everything the guy wants to do, and Always Being Up for It --
whatever It is. When people think about good in bed, for a woman, that's often what
they think.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018511
