4.2.12
WC: 191694

The Suppression of Science: The Case of Jeffrey MacDonald

A case in which science has not yet produced a victory—or, in my view, justice—is the 40 year
old “whodunit” involving the murder of the family of Jeffrey MacDonald. Science could perhaps
provide a definitive answer to this highly publicized case, but so far the doors of the courtroom
have been shut to newly discovered scientific and other evidence that was suppressed by the
prosecution. The courts in this case have placed the alleged need for “finality” above the search
for truth. But history and science knows no finality. Nor should finality trump the desire for
closure in a court of law, as long as a possibly innocent defendant remains convicted of a crime
that science can prove he may not have committed.

I had followed the Jeffrey MacDonald case in the media from its grisly inception on February 17,
1970, when the wounded Green Beret doctor told authorities that his pregnant wife, Colette, and
his daughters, Kimberly, five, and Kristen, two, had been murdered by drug-crazed intruders. Like
most Americans, I had my doubts about his story. It seemed so conveniently modeled on the
notorious Manson murders that had occurred just __ years earlier. I knew that the statistics
showed that wives are more likely to be killed by husbands than by strangers. I wondered why
there was no hard evidence—no fibers, hairs, or fingerprints—left by the alleged intruders. My
doubts were confirmed by reading Joe McGinniss's best-seller Fatal Vision, which concluded that
MacDonald was indeed guilty, or by seeing the TV movie, which was even more persuasive of his
guilt.

Several times during the course of the lengthy legal proceedings, Jeffrey MacDonald had written
and called me, pleading with me to help him. Each time I declined. But then, in 19 __, I went to
Terminal Island Federal Prison in California to visit another inmate, and as I left the room in
which lawyers confer with prisoners, a graying man quietly introduced himself. He was Jeffrey
MacDonald, and he asked if he could have five minutes of my time to show me some documents.
I agreed. What I learned that day—and afterward—convinced me that I had to try to help him.

In one of the most dramatic scenes in the TV movie Fatal Vision, investigators dig up the graves
of Colette, Kimberly, and Kristen MacDonald. The government's chief lawyer (played by Andy
Griffith) explains to the grieving Freddie Kassab (played by Karl Maiden) why the bodies of his
stepdaughter and grandchildren must be exhumed:

We've got to know if the hair found in Colette's hand was her own, Jeff's,
the kids’...
[Freddie Kassab interjects] . . . or someone with a floppy hat.

In the actual trial conducted in 1979, the prosecution's case against Jeffrey MacDonald relied
heavily on this evidence: blonde hair found in the murdered Colette MacDonald's hand. It had
already been found not to match Jeffrey MacDonald's hair. Thus, if it did not match Colette's own
hair or the hair of the children, that finding would lend support to MacDonald's claim that there
had been intruders - - including a woman with long, blonde hair who was wearing a floppy hat
and boots - - in his home on the night of the attack. It would also indicate that at least one of
these intruders had come in contact with Colette.

195

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017282
