Through the Looking Glass | 263

Pelton debriefings. The debriefing sessions, which went on for fifteen
days, were from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. In them, Pelton managed to
recall Project A, a joint NSA-CIA-navy operation in which subma-
rines surreptitiously tapped into Soviet undersea cables in the Sea
of Okhotsk, which connected to the Soviet Pacific Fleet’s mainland
headquarters at Vladivostok. Pelton received another $30,000 from
the KGB.

“Did the information in his head prove valuable?” I asked.

“As long as the NSA didn’t know the tap was compromised by
Pelton, we could use the cable to send the NSA the information we
wanted it to intercept.” He said that while actual NSA documents
would have proved more useful than someone’s memories, “Our job
is to take advantage of whatever we can get.”

Two years later, Pelton was again flown to Vienna for another
debriefing to see if he could recall any further details. According to
Cherkashin, the KGB’s job was to leave no stone unturned when
it came to the NSA’s sources. In 1985, the KGB’s task ended when
Pelton was arrested by the FBI. Like Ames and Hanssen, Pelton was

© sentenced to life imprisonment. ©

Looking at his watch, Cherkashin politely excused himself.

I subsequently spoke to Colonel Oleg Nechiporenko, who had
been a foreign intelligence officer in the KGB between 1958 and
1985 and continued his intelligence work until recently as chief
counterterrorism expert of the Russian-led Collective Security
Treaty Organization. Over a leisurely coffee in the bar of the Hotel
National, he told me that many “walk-ins” who contacted Soviet
officials in his time were emotionally disturbed, but all of them had
to be assessed for possible intelligence value. “Our job was to find
espionage sources,” he said with a twinkle in his eye. “The Internet
has changed the espionage business since secret documents can be
massively downloaded by an unhappy employee,” he said, “but they
still need to be assessed by a professional.”

Through the eyes of the KGB, a penetration of American intel-
ligence was clearly opportunistic. If these practices continued, they
put Snowden’s situation in a new light for me. If Russian intelli-
gence considered it worthwhile to send a former civilian worker at
the NSA, such as Ronald Pelton, two thousand miles from Washing-

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.indd 263 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019751
