And only then: “We must love each other, show affection for each other and unite
together in condemnation of hatred, bigotry and violence... . We must rediscover the
bonds of love and loyalty that bring us together as Americans... . Racism is evil. And
those who cause violence in its name are criminals and thugs including the KKK, neo-
Nazis, white supremacists, and other hate groups that are repugnant to everything we hold
dear as Americans.”

It was a reluctant mini-grovel. It was something of a restaging of the take-it-back
birther speech about Obama during the campaign: much distraction and obfuscation, then
a mumbled acknowledgment. Similarly, he looked here, trying to tow the accepted line on
Charlottesville, like a kid called on the carpet. Resentful and petulant, he was clearly
reading forced lines.

And in fact he got little credit for these presidential-style remarks, with reporters
shouting questions about why it had taken him so long to address the issue. As he got back
on Marine One to head to Andrews Air Force Base and on to JFK and then into Manhattan
and Trump Tower, his mood was dark and I-told-you-so. Privately, he kept trying to
rationalize why someone would be a member of the KK K—that is, they might not actually
believe what the KKK believed, and the KKK probably does not believe what it used to
believe, and, anyway, who really knows what the KKK believes now? In fact, he said, his
own father was accused of being involved with the KK K—not true. (In fact, yes, true.)

The next day, Tuesday, August 15, the White House had a news conference scheduled
at Trump Tower. Bannon urged Kelly to cancel it. It was a nothing conference anyway. Its
premise was about infrastructure—about undoing an environmental regulation that could
help get projects started faster—but it was really just another effort to show that Trump
was working and not just on a holiday. So why bother? What’s more, Bannon told Kelly,
he could see the signs: the arrow on the Trump pressure cooker was climbing, and before
long he’d blow.

The news conference went ahead anyway. Standing at the lectern in the lobby of
Trump Tower, the president stayed on script for mere minutes. Defensive and self-
justifying, he staked out a contrition-is-bunk, the-fault-lies-everywhere-else position and
then dug in deep. He went on without an evident ability to adjust his emotions to political
circumstance or, really, even to make an effort to save himself. It was yet one more
example, among his many now, of the comic-absurd, movielike politician who just says
whatever is on his mind. Unmediated. Crazylike.

“What about the alt-left that came charging at the, as you say, altright? Do they have
any semblance of guilt? What about the fact they came charging with clubs in their hands?
As far as I’m concerned that was a horrible, horrible day... . I think there’s blame on both
sides. I have no doubt about it, you don’t have any doubt about it. If you reported it
accurately, you would see.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020107
