glasses. I greeted each of Lara’s interviewees
as if they were coming to my house for dinner.
I never tire of the overwhelming excitement,
throngs of eager press, and screaming fans.
Everything boils down to this moment of
mass hysteria. It’s always humbling to stand
among the entertainment giants, wish them
luck and have them nervously smile back.
Its the bittersweet finale when all of the
campaigning is over and you think you won't
see them until their next movie. It’s like the
last day of camp.

I was now dateless and alone as Lara Spencer
went home suffering from a sore throat.

Those in the know always hang out at the
downstairs bar during the broadcast where
the sound is turned up on the flat screens.
This year, Cate Blanchett’s husband theater
impresario Andrew Upton bought me free
drinks. I hung out with Cate, her CAA agent
Hylda Queally, the adorable skinny Sally
Hawkins in a heavily beaded Valentino gown,
Julia Roberts, and Tom Bernard and Michael
Barker who have 140 career nominations and
32 wins.

After that her
stupendous pale beaded Armani Privé gown

reassuring Blanchett

was the best of the other girls’ pale dresses and
that her Oscar would pop against it, she went
on stage to win.

While I was at the Oscar broadcast, 160
VIPs at Graydon Carter’s annual Oscar
viewing dinner were getting ready for the
rush of a thousand more party guests. Five
hundred limos were on the way. Those
who watched the awards from the beige,
circular dining room were  Graydon’s
friends including: Sofia Vergara, Tom Ford,
Carolina Herrera, Bruce Weber, Allen
Grubman, Bob Colacello, Judd Apatow, Jeff
Klein and John Goldwyn, Rupert Murdoch,

Steve Newhouse, Les Moonves, and Jimmy
Buffet.

I ran through the Governor's Ball and
found Bryan Lourd and Fox’s beloved leader
Jim Gianopulos, ushered by Fox Searchlight’s
Michelle Hooper, sitting at Brad Pitt’s empty

2 table because everyone else was still in the

COM

press room doing interviews.

AND BFANYC.

I arrived at the Vanity Fair party at its new
= location, 8680 Sunset Boulevard, a parking lot
& that was transformed into an airy glass dome.
al stood in a corner, ravenously inhaling my
z In-n-Out burger with ketchup dripping down
z my chin and of course, Graydon—the adored
8 maestro of the week—came up and so sweetly
% wanted to know how I was doing. It’s a little
z difficult to respond with a mouthful of food
6 behind dark glasses.

Anne Hathaway and Jared Leto

The stars were huddled together in groups,
air kissing and congratulating each other. Bill
Murray, Lupita Nyongo, Jennifer Lawrence,
Naomi Watts, Idina Menzel, Sarah Paulson,
Bette Midler and Lady Gaga owned the
dance floor; Jared Leto passed his Oscar
around so much he dropped it and it now
sports a little dent in the head; pregnant Kerry
Washington ate for two; and the Janes—
Fonda and Buffet—huddled on a couch,
while The Great Gatsby’s production and
costume designer, and wife of director Baz
Luhrmann, Catherine Martin and I posed
with her two Oscars. (Including the two she
won for Moulin Rouge, she now has four).

Even Madonna has sponsors now. The
material girl—blinding in 1,000 carats of Neil
Lane’s diamonds—hosted her seventh annual
awards bash at her manager Guy Oseary’s
home with Gucci. Originally super secret, the
party is now a headline on Page Six. Madonna
made her best effort to cream off the stars
from Graydon’s party.

In attendance were Paul McCartney, Tom
Brady and Gisele Biindchen, newly engaged
Ashton Kutcher and Mila Kunis, Serena
Williams, Prince, and Pink. Madonna closed
out her own party by breakdancing with her
kids and Miley Cyrus, and spinning records
until 7 a.m. for Matthew McConaughey.

Madge, short for majesty, would rather die
than entertain press, let alone an adorable
publicist like moi. Last year, ever so curious,

Charlize Theron

I was brought as
a guest of a guest
only to be frogmarched

to the door by Oseary, the
host
readers, I did this for you. It has

furious himself. Dear
taken me a year to admit—I was
too socially traumatized to report

my investigative failure. I now realize that
I was just a pawn for Oseary’s A-list purity
for the night. His own rock status had been
boosted by signing Bono and U2. Thank God
my social stock is still otherwise intact. The
week before the Oscars, the real Oscar—de
la Renta—had invited me to his beachfront
paradise in the Dominican Republic with
Lord and Lady Astor. In June, the Duke and
Duchess of Marlborough are expecting me at
Blenheim Palace. So much for not making the
cut at Madonna’.

Once again, I scored a ride home on a
friend’s plane where my dark glasses fit right
in. Passengers received an email that morning
requesting “no jeans.” I thought this was a
bizarre fashion edict, only to find out the
indigo dye in denim bleeds onto the jet’s white
leather chairs.

Asa closing to my 10th annual Oscar diary,
I can sum up this year’s race as one of intense
emotions and euphoric pride for our love of
what Americans do best: making the most
wonderful and culturally enlightening movies
that entertain the world. On to Cannes!+

APRIL 2012 * AVENUE MAGAZINE | 59

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010722

