Fittuy Ricu

She removed her pants, leaving her thong panties on, Pagan
writes in her incident report.

She straddled his back, whereby her exposed buttocks were
touching Epstein’s exposed buttocks.

Epstein then turned to his side and started to rub his penis in an
up-and-down motion. Epstein pulled out a purple vibrator and began
to massage Mary’s vaginal area.

CHAPTER 9 Mary’s sure that Epstein ejaculated. “He used a towel to wipe
himself down as he got off the table,” she says.

That week, Pagan’s assigned to the case, along with six detec-
tives. Five men, two women. “A predator case,” one of them will
say. “This is different from someone who is stealing. This preda-
tor is a smart person, and that’s his desire. He can’t stop.”

Within days, another victim comes into the station. She’s got
a similar story.

ther believe their girl. Officer

arents. Ergo, Mary must be tell-
ta sweet, high, halting voice. : It's a tricky case, according to a source closely involved with the
go , high, :

soth times, she speaks with her 4 investigation, because the girls involved are far too young to use
i as bait in an attempt to catch Epstein committing another crime—

even if they were willing to play along. Still, there are other

“What happened?” |
writes: While speaking to me, t strings that Chief Reiter’s team can start pulling.
in 5
- q Two weeks later, on March 31, Officer Pagan has Mary make
ne into the room,” Mary says. , a controlled call to Wendy Dobbs.
is waist. He took off the towel. — . The first attempt goes straight to voice mail.
ui .

he lay down on a massage table. The next time Mary calls, Wendy picks up.
xt his wee-wee was very tiny.”
Gny and tentative, while Wendy sounds mature, gruff, fully

n spoke only to give her instruc: a
‘ce. She tells Pagan that she was) -Stown, like the femme fatale in some old black-and-white movie.
vice. ! :

On the recordings made by Officer Pagan, Mary's voice is

, “Hey, what's up?” she says impatiently.
0.

25

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019141
