Incident 3:

° A former Case Western physics department administrator confirmed that she had reported a previous
incident involving a student who had confided in her about your inappropriate behavior towards her.

Incident 4:

° You met a student from another university, an atheist activist, in March 2008 at the American Atheists
Convention in Minneapolis. She wanted to expand the atheist group she ran at the midwestern university she
was attending, and hoped to convince you to come and speak. You initially seemed enthusiastic.

° During the convention, attendees including you and Richard Dawkins went for dinner with the student
and volunteers for Dawkins’ foundation.

° Afterwards, the student invited you to join the volunteers for a drink.

° You asked her to come get you in your hotel room. She was wary of your intentions, and so brought a
male friend with her. Opening the door to find them both there, you informed her you had decided not to go.
° You met this student again at the American Atheists Convention in Des Moines, lowa, in April 2011.

° You pulled over a chair for her in the bar, and then started running your hand up her leg under the
table.

° She tried to shift her body away from you, and you persisted in putting your hand on her leg. She

crossed her legs, and you kept trying. Then she turned her entire body away.

Incident 5:

° This incident allegedly occurred on in May 2011 on a CFI cruise. We understand that CFI staff were
informed that you had propositioned a female cruise-goer, who rejected an invitation to join you and your
female companion for sex in your cabin.

° At least two CFI staffers were sufficiently concerned about reports of your behavior that they urged
CFI’s president not to invite you on a 2014 cruise of the Galapagos Islands. You were invited on that cruise,
however.

Incident 6:

° During a visit to Melbourne, Australia, in November 2016, you were accused of sexual misconduct once
again.

° The incident happened at a dinner held at the Melbourne Zoo as part of the Australian Skeptics
National Convention, where you were a featured speaker.

° With conference delegates chatting over drinks, a woman asked you for a celebrity selfie.

° As the woman held out her phone to take the picture, you reached over her shoulder and grabbed her
right breast.

° She immediately reacted, bodychecking you and spinning around. “Don’t do that,” she said.

° BuzzFeed News has seen the complaint made by another woman to ASU, ANU, and the New College

of the Humanities in London, including the selfie, her face obscured to conceal her identity. It shows your
hand in motion as a blur in front of her shoulder, apparently moving toward her chest. Two other eyewitnesses
have confirmed the complainant’s account of what happened.

° In April 2017, the complainant described the incident on her blog. After hearing more about your
reputation for inappropriate behavior from blog readers, she decided to file a complaint about the Nov. 2016
incident.

° On July 16, she filed formal complaints with Arizona State University, and with the Australian National
University in Canberra and the New College of the Humanities in London, where you have visiting
appointments.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031439
