Page 49 of 78
2007 Utah L. Rev. 861, *929

(3) Sentence Recommendation. By local rule or by order in a case, the court may direct the probation officer not to disclose to
anyone other than the court the officer's recommendation on the sentence. 39?

I further recommended that victims be given the opportunity to object to and be heard on disputed issues in the presentence
report as follows:

(f) Objecting to the Report.

(1) Time to Object. Within 14 days after receiving the presentence report, the parties must state in writing any objections,
including objections to material information, sentencing guideline ranges, and policy statements contained in or omitted from
the report. The attorney for the government or for the victim shall raise for the victim any reasonable objection by the victim to
the presentence report.

(2) Serving Objections. An objecting party must provide a copy of its objections to the opposing party and to the probation
officer.

(3) Action on Objections. After receiving objections, the probation officer may meet with the parties and the victim to discuss
the objections. The probation officer may then investigate further and revise the presentence report as appropriate.

(h) Notice of Intent to Consider Other Sentencing Factors. 73 Before the court may rely on a ground not identified either in the
[*930] presentence report or in a party's prehearing submission or in a victim impact statement, the court must give the parties
reasonable notice that it is contemplating either departing from the applicable guideline range or imposing a non-guideline
sentence. The notice must specify any ground not earlier identified on which the court is contemplating a departure or a non-
guideline sentence. The attorney for the government or for the victim shall advise defense counsel and the court of any ground
identified by the victim that might reasonably serve as a basis for departure.

(i) Sentencing.
(1) In General. At sentencing, the court:

(A) must verify that the defendant and the defendant's attorney have read and discussed the presentence report and any
addendum to the report;

(B) must give to the defendant and an attorney for the government a written summary of - or summarize in camera - any
information excluded from the presentence report under Rule 32(d)(3) on which the court will rely in sentencing, and give them
a reasonable opportunity to comment on that information;

(C) must allow the parties' attorneys and any victims to comment on the probation officer's determinations and other matters
relating to an appropriate sentence; and

(D) may, for good cause, allow a party or any victim to make a new objection at any time before sentence is imposed.

(2) Introducing Evidence; Producing a Statement. The court may permit the parties or the victim to introduce evidence on the
objections. If a witness testifies at sentencing, Rule 26.2(a)-(d) and (f) applies. If a party fails to comply with a Rule 26.2 order
to produce a witness's statement, the court must not consider that witness's testimony.

(3) Court Determinations. At sentencing, the court:

(A) may accept any undisputed portion of the presentence report as a finding of fact;

392 Cassell, Proposed Amendments, supra note 4, at 892.

393 This rule was amended in December 2006, after my earlier article was published, to change departure language to conform with the
new, post-Booker regime. I have accordingly changed the language quoted in the text above to conform to the current language.

DAVID SCHOEN

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017684
