North Korea, a situation the president had been consistently advised to downplay, now
became the central subject of the rest of the week—with most senior staff occupied not so
much by the topic itself, but by how to respond to the president, who was threatening to
“blow” again.

Against this background, almost no one paid attention to the announcement by the
Trump supporter and American neo-Nazi Richard Spencer that he was organizing a protest
at the University of Virginia, in Charlottesville, over the removal of a statue of Robert E.
Lee. “Unite the Right,” the theme of the rally called for Saturday, August 12, was
explicitly designed to link Trump’s politics with white nationalism.

On August 11, with the president in Bedminster continuing to threaten North Korea—
and also, inexplicably to almost everyone on his staff, threatening military intervention in
Venezuela—Spencer called for an evening protest.

At 8:45 p.m.—with the president in for the night in Bedminster—about 250 young men
dressed in khaki pants and polo shirts, quite a Trump style of dress, began an organized
parade across the UVA campus while carrying kerosene torches. Parade monitors with
headsets directed the scene. At a signal, the marchers began chanting official movement
slogans: “Blood and soil!” “You will not replace us!” “Jews will not replace us!” Soon, at
the center of campus, near a statue of UVA’s founder, Thomas Jefferson, Spencer’s group
was met by a counterprotest. With virtually no police presence, the first of the weekend’s
melees and injuries ensued.

Beginning again at eight o’clock the next morning, the park near the Lee statue became
the battleground of a suddenly surging white racist movement, with clubs, shields, mace,
pistols, and automatic rifles (Virginia is an “open carry” state)—a movement seemingly,
and to liberal horror, born out of the Trump campaign and election, as in fact Richard
Spencer intended it to seem. Opposing the demonstrators was a hardened, militant left
called to the barricades. You could hardly have better set an end-times scene, no matter the
limited numbers of protesters. Much of the morning involved a series of charges and
countercharges—a _ rocks-and-bottles combat, with a seemingly hands-off police force
standing by.

In Bedminster, there was still little awareness of the unfolding events in Charlottesville.
But then, at about one o’clock in the afternoon, James Alex Fields Jr., a twenty-year-old
would-be Nazi, plunged his Dodge Charger into a group of counterprotesters, killing
thirty-two-year-old Heather Heyer and injuring a score of others.

In a tweet hurriedly composed by his staff, the president declared: “We ALL must be
united & condemn all that hate stands for. There is no place for this kind of violence in
America. Lets come together as one!”

Otherwise, however, it was largely business as usual for the president—Charlottesville
was a mere distraction, and indeed, the staff’s goal was to keep him off North Korea. The

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020105
