Free Will 317

back in time, albeit as a simulation, and relive past events. This would
have no effect on the events themselves as it would be like watching a
movie, but we could see every aspect of the past from any viewpoint.

To perform this time travel trick for real, we would have to gather
information from an enormously wide area. Information spreads
out at the speed of light. One minute after the dominoes topple, the
information about the event will have spread one light minute — that
is over a sphere forty-million kilometers across — half way to Venus.
An hour later and it would be outside the solar system. If you were to
cast your net that wide, and gathered up all the information within the
sphere, you could still perfectly model the moment when the dominoes
were toppled. The wider you cast the net, the more information you have
and the further backward in time you can travel. If you take the idea of
collecting information to its logical conclusion you could gather all the
information in the Universe at a moment in time.

In 1814, Laplace put this idea in an essay. He proposed an immensely
powerful being observes the position and momentum of every particle
in the Universe. Armed with any snapshot of the Universe and the laws
of physics, the entire future and the past of the Universe. The being was
nicknamed Laplace’s Daemon and the idea has influenced philosophy
ever since.

If the Universe is predictable, our concept of time needs to be
rethought. A common sense notion isthat things inthe futureare unknown
and things in the past are known. But, in a deterministic Universe a
daemon or a supercomputer could keep track of all the information and
tell you what is inevitably going to happen. The conscious feeling we have
of moving through time would be just an illusion. Past and future have
no meaning and there would just be a solid, permanent block of space-
time. If you stood outside the Universe and looked at this block of space-
time, everything that is going to happen and has already happened is set.
This is sometimes called the Block Universe Hypothesis and is the logical
conclusion of any theory that imagines an entirely determined Universe.

One thing that seems to throw doubt on this Block Universe
Hypothesis is our personal conscious experience of the world. We
experience the Universe unfolding over time. (Of course, we could have
this conscious experience in a determined Universe if someone had
programmed it that way. All we can say is that it seems unlikely someone
would go to the trouble of giving us a completely fictitious experience.
There are an infinite number of possible Universes, why pick one where
we think time flows, but it does not.)

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016007
