understanding seduction in terms of observed behaviors. They have terms for social
tactics that run the gamut from creating rapport, to encouraging trust, to building sexual
tension, to shifting social power. But although the purpose of these social tactics is to
manipulate emotion, the tactics are typically described as concretely as possible. Some
PUA coaches provide long memorized routines, but it is more common to talk about
particular social actions or broader strategies.

One famous PUA tactic is called the neg. Neg stands for negative hit, and one site
defines a neg as a remark, sometimes humorous, used to point out a woman's flaws.
Like many PUA terms, the deeper meanings and usage vary from PUA to PUA -- but
there is an especially dramatic range of meanings with neg.

Some PUAs see negs as friendly teasing: a way for the PUA to show that he is paying
attention to the girl, without appearing needy or overeager. I can offer a cute example of
this approach from my own life. I was sitting in a cafe with a former PUA, and he gazed
deep into my eyes.

Wait a minute,” he said slowly. Are your glasses held together by epoxy? It looks like
you had to repair them at the comers.

Yeah, I admitted.
He grinned. Everything about you just screams ‘starving artist,’ doesn't it.”

This made me laugh for quite a while. I think it worked because he understood that I have
chosen (for now) to be a broke writer -- but he also recognized the tension I feel about
that choice. So this gentleman was demonstrating that he correctly discerned my
priorities; that he is not bothered by a choice that makes me feel self-conscious; and that
he is confident enough to tease me.

Also, at a moment when I thought he might compliment my eyes, the former PUA shook
up my expectations by breaking the romantic pattern. Often, effective flirting involves
offering the right mixture of confidence plus charming novelty plus paying attention.

PL

Some PUAs see negs more strategically, as a way of passing a woman's tests or
breaching her indifference. They argue that this is necessary for women who are very
high-status, very beautiful, etc. They argue that some women develop a kind of immunity
to compliments, and that some women actively prefer feisty, faux-adversarial flirting.
Most PUAs only advocate using negs on women who meet a certain minimum level of
attractiveness, or who seem particularly feisty. Neil Strauss, a famous PUA and author of
the bestseller The Game: Penetrating the Secret Society of Pickup Artists, once wrote
that:

When you give a woman who's often hit on a generic compliment, she will usually either
ignore the remark or assume you're saying it because you want to sleep with her.

When you tease her and show her that you're unaffected by her beauty and demonstrate
that you're out of her league -- and THEN let her work to win you over and ultimately
REWARD her with your approval, she will leave that night feeling good about herself.
Like something special happened and she connected with somebody who appreciates her
for who she REALLY is.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018665
