This morning the pricing is as follows:

Aug 200 Puts cost $4.10
Sept 200 Puts cost $7.90

Earning are on 08/30. So worst case is the uncertainty lingers until then which would argue to buy the Sept puts.
However | still prefer buying the Aug puts as | would fully expect more clarity from management before August expiry.

Paul

Paul Barrett
Alpha Group Capital LLC
142 W 57 Street, 11° Floor, New York, NY 10019

CX are a
CAPITAL

From: jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com>
Sent: Friday, July 13, 2018 7:11 AM

To: Paul Barrett (es Richard Kahn
Subject:

Im not angry, sorry, itissad. itis apparent that you have no experience trading. we both madeamistake. . the
spy trades were the results of arank amatuer... youtook a postion on the direction of the market. ok. you
decided to play it extra short time and short. . why? becaue the options are cheaper. ? knowing full well that
time premium was running. . first silly move. . | allowed as promised to give you authority. . you seta target. . it
hit the traget , you moved in back. based on media reporting on trump visit? you didnt act. the market dipped and
you panicked. . AMATEUR. wrong options wrong timing , no discipline and as a percentaage of investment. a one
day dip fof 25%. wanting to buy the highter strike , is ok. but why the same month? why the same moment. why
the same index. . sorry. | have taught this for many years. and your gradeisanF. not one good move in

many. . rebroadcom. the crack happend inthe morning. options were higher. no alternative presented. no
analysis. , this is no way to manage money. | have lost a great deal of money hoping you would be able to do as
you promised you could. would.. Had youtoldme, jeffrey | d like to try anew job as a manager lets start slow |
canlearn. i would be less annoyed. you told me you had great confidence knew the risks and truly believed you
would be able to raise money .do well and prosper. ._ If it were not you, this would have ended months ago.. we
should work on a solution. not sure yet what shape it takes.

please note

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031820
