to openly discussing his intention to form a “majoritarian government”
that would exclude the most important Sunni representatives. In mid-
December he participated in creating a Shiite grand alliance as the
launching pad for that government. The principal Sunni political leaders,
including Issawi, parliamentary speaker Osama al-Nujaifiand Anbari tribal
leader Ahmed abu Rishaannounced their intention to form their own
coalition. In short, Iraqi politics was re-fragmenting along sectarian and
ethnic lines even before the protests began.

Understood in this context, the Iraqi army’s killing of protesters in
Fallujah last month is a watershed event similar to the destruction of the
Askariya shrine in Samarra in February 2006, though the crisis will not
escalate as quickly. Sunni-Shiite tensions have hitherto played out in
political forums. The key actors in today’s crisis are not the Sunni political
leaders but, rather, Anbari tribal leaders, including Ali Hatem Ali
Suleiman, one of the most powerful leaders of Iraq’s largest Sunni tribe.
Suleiman and fellow leaders of the Dulaim tribe were essential to
engineering the Anbar Awakening in 2007 and Sunni participation in the
government, for which they rejected al-Qaeda in Irag and renounced
violence against the state. They responded to the killings of protesters last
month by threatening open war against the state for the first time since
2007. So far at least, they have restrained protesters and resisted violent
confrontation.

For his part, Maliki has sought to deescalate the conflict and to mollify
protesters. Tehran has also been working — to persuade Iraq’s Sadrists,

whom Maliki has alienated in his consolidation of power, to abandon their
support for their Sunni brethren. Their combined efforts appear to be
working: The Sadrist Bloc, which had refused Maliki’s request for
suggestions to replace Issawi and other Sunni politicians, has put forth a
substitute finance minister.

These efforts, ostensibly toward political resolution, actually increase the
likelihood of sectarian war by continuing the marginalization of Sunni
political leaders without addressing Sunni tribes’ core grievances — and
by re-creating a Shiite front that had splintered.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_027118
