202 11 Stages of Cognitive Development

A problem commonly used to illustrate the difference between the Piagetan concrete opera-
tional and formal stages is that of figuring out the rules for making pendulums swing quickly
versus slowly [P58]. If you ask a child in the formal stage to solve this problem, she may pro-
ceed to do a number of experiments, e.g. build a long string with a light weight, a long string
with a heavy weight, a short string with a light weight and a short string with a heavy weight.
Through these experiments she may determine that a short string leads to a fast swing, a long
string leads to a slow swing, and the weight doesn’t matter at all.

The role of experiments like this, which test “extreme cases,” is to make cognition easier. The
formal-stage mind tries to map a concrete situation onto a maximally simple and manipulable
set of abstract propositions, and then reason based on these. Doing this, however, requires an
automated and instinctive understanding of the reasoning process itself. The above-described
experiments are good ones for solving the pendulum problem because they provide data that
is very easy to reason about. From the perspective of uncertain inference systems, this is the
key characteristic of the formal stage: formal cognition approaches problems in a way explicitly
calculated to yield tractable inferences.

Note that this is quite different from saying that formal cognition involves abstractions and
advanced logic. In an uncertain logic-based AGI system, even infantile cognition may involve
these — the difference lies in the level of inference control, which in the infantile stage is simplistic
and hard-wired, but in the formal stage is based on an understanding of what sorts of inputs
lead to tractable inference in a given context.

11.4.4 The Reflexive Stage

In the reflexive stage (Figure 11.8), an intelligent agent is broadly capable of selfmodifying its
internal structures and dynamics.

As an example in the human domain: highly intelligent and self-aware adult humans may
carry out reflexive cognition by explicitly reflecting upon their own inference processes and
trying to improve them. An example is the intelligent improvement of uncertain-truth-value-
manipulation formulas. It is well demonstrated that even educated humans typically make
numerous errors in probabilistic reasoning [GGIK02]. Most people don’t realize it and continue
to systematically make these errors throughout their lives. However, a small percentage of
individuals make an explicit effort to increase their accuracy in making probabilistic judgments
by consciously endeavoring to internalize the rules of probabilistic inference into their automated
cognition processes.

In the uncertain inference based AGI context, what this means is: In the reflexive stage
an entity is able to include inference control itself as an explicit subject of abstract learning
(i.e. the ability to reason about one’s own tactical and strategic approach to modifying one’s
own learning and thinking), and modify these inference control strategies based on analysis of
experience with various cognitive approaches.

Ultimately, the entity can self-modify its internal cognitive structures. Any knowledge or
heuristics can be revised, including metatheoretical and metasystemic thought itself. Initially
this is done indirectly, but at least in the case of AGI systems it is theoretically possible to
also do so directly. This might be considered as a separate stage of Full Self Modification, or
else as the end phase of the reflexive stage. In the context of logical reasoning, self modification
of inference control itself is the primary task in this stage. In terms of inference control this

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013118
