08/31/2007 13:04 FAX 5618021787 USAG WPB FL 003

Ms.
August 31, 2007
Page 2

Fee re ere ene tenner arti ee erent ret ener re

evidence linking him or her to the commussion of a crime and who, in the judgment of the
prosecutors, is a putative defendant.

This letter constitutes an invitation to you to testify on your own behalf before the
grand jury about matters under investigation. Of course, you are not required to appear
before the grand jury. The decision whether to do so is a voluntary matter which 1s entirely
up to you, The grand jury, if in fact it learns of this opporhmity afforded to you, will be
instructed not to draw any adverse inference from your failure to appear should you decide
not to accept this invitation. You must further understand that should you decide to testify,
your testitnony could be used agaist you if any crimimal charges should be filed against you.

FO eS ney ren yarn aerate Nt se pt eerie ao ne

Should you decide to appear before the grand jury, you will have the same tights and
obligations as any non-immunized grand jury witness, Specifically,

You may refuse to answer any question if a truthful answer to the question
-would tend to incriminate you.

You have the nght to stop answering questions at any time.

Anything you say may be used against you at the grand jury or in a subsequent
legal proceeding. ~

.. The grand jury will permit you a reasonable opportunity to step outside the
grand jury room to consult with your attorney, if you so desire,.at any point
during the testimony you give.

Please be further advised that the giving of false testimony before the grand jury will
subject you to a prosecution for perjury in addition to the violations set forth above.

7” As a target of a grand jury investigation who has been asked to appear before the
grand jury, you may wish to retain the services of an attomey. If you cannot afford the
services of independent counsel, the Court may be able to appoint counsel to represent you.
Ifyou would like the United States to ask the Court to appoint an attorney to represent you,
piease contact the undersigned at 561 209-1047, The United States is investigating other
individuals, and you may be interested m cooperating with the United States agamst those
other targets. Jf you hire an attomey, or if the Court appoints one to represent you, that _
counsel can contact meé to disciiss that possibility,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012600
