registered. At the same time, each successive call mostly canceled the others out.

This paralysis led the three advisers to rely on the other particularly effective way to
move him, which was to use the media. Hence each man became an inveterate and
polished leaker. Bannon and Kushner studiously avoided press exposure; two of the most
powerful people in government were, for the most part, entirely silent, eschewing almost
all interviews and even the traditional political conversations on Sunday morning
television. Curiously, however, both men became the background voices to virtually all
media coverage of the White House. Early on, before getting down to attacking each
other, Bannon and Kushner were united in their separate offensives against Priebus.
Kushner’s preferred outlet was Joe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski’s Morning Joe, one
of the president’s certain morning shows. Bannon’s first port of call was the alt-right
media (“Bannon’s Breitbart shenanigans,” in Walsh’s view). By the end of the first month
in the White House, Bannon and Kushner had each built a network of primary outlets, as
well as secondary ones to deflect from the obviousness of the primary ones, creating a
White House that simultaneously displayed extreme animosity toward the press and yet
great willingness to leak to it. In this, at least, Trump’s administration was achieving a
landmark transparency.

The constant leaking was often blamed on lower minions and permanent executive
branch staff, culminating in late February with an all-hands meeting of staffers called by
Sean Spicer—cell phones surrendered at the door—during which the press secretary
issued threats of random phone checks and admonitions about the use of encrypted texting
apps. Everybody was a potential leaker; everybody was accusing everybody else of being
a leaker.

Everybody was a leaker.

One day, when Kushner accused Walsh of leaking about him, she challenged him back:
“My phone records versus yours, my email versus yours.”

But most of the leaks, certainly the juiciest ones, were coming from the higher-ups—
not to mention from the person occupying the topmost echelon.

The president couldn’t stop talking. He was plaintive and self-pitying, and it was
obvious to everyone that if he had a north star, it was just to be liked. He was ever
uncomprehending about why everyone did not like him, or why it should be so difficult to
get everyone to like him. He might be happy throughout the day as a parade of union steel
workers or CEOs trooped into the White House, with the president praising his visitors
and them praising him, but that good cheer would sour in the evening after several hours
of cable television. Then he would get on the phone, and in unguarded ramblings to
friends and others, conversations that would routinely last for thirty or forty minutes, and
could go much longer, he would vent, largely at the media and his staff. In what was
termed by some of the self-appointed Trump experts around him—and everyone was a

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019976
