introduces a range of new incentives/ penalties that force market participants to address major
cost, efficiency, and quality issues within the healthcare system.

The ACA and other healthcare reform initiatives are challenged by dual and somewhat
conflicting objectives. They are focused on reducing costs and slowing growth rates in
spending, but at the same time expand the size of the population that has access to healthcare
covered by third party payment mechanisms. In order to cover the increased costs of the
expanded coverage, reform initiatives attempt to radically improve the efficiency of healthcare
delivery as a way of freeing up resources that can be redirected to providing care to populations
that had previously not been covered. Some of the lowest hanging fruit that is being targeted in
early reform initiatives is eliminating waste from the healthcare system. There are enormous
resources that can be freed up by eliminating expenditures that are unnecessary or duplicative.
In the U.S. healthcare system alone, there is an estimated $765 billion that is wasted annually.
More than half of that total ($415 billion) is the result of fraud, unnecessary services, and
inefficiently or mistakenly delivered care. Another 25%+ of the total ($190 billion) is the result
of excess administrative costs (eg., inefficiencies associated with paperwork and
documentation)?”. Finding ways to reduce waste in the system offers the opportunity to create
significant value, but requires the adoption of entirely new tools and technologies by payers,
providers, and patients. Developing these tools, applications, and systems is an area of
significant opportunity for innovative technology focused companies.

A major part of eliminating waste in healthcare will be accomplished by driving efficiency and
deriving maximum benefit from the enormous levels of current expenditures. Achieving this
goal will have to include a fundamental change in focus to the principles of value-based
medicine across all levels of the healthcare system. This is a radical change in objectives that is
already happening, and it is leading to entirely new reimbursement models built around paying
for technologies and treatments that provide care efficiently and at a cost proportional to the
health benefit they deliver. Value-based medicine focuses on outcomes from healthcare
services, which more closely aligns the interests of the payers with the healthcare providers and
product companies whose services and products are the major cost elements in the delivery of
healthcare. Although simple conceptually, this is a fundamental change in how healthcare is
paid for from the historical reimbursement models that have focused on fixed payments for
delivery of discrete procedures, with no corresponding emphasis on quality of the care
delivered or on the resulting patient outcomes.

Refocusing treatment objectives within the healthcare system towards high quality outcomes
over numbers of procedures will require many healthcare companies to reengineer aspects of
their business models, but it will also provide them with new opportunity. In a system that
rewards outcomes, companies and organizations that run with the highest quality and most
efficiently will have significant opportunity to expand their own returns by taking on risk in the
treatment of patients. Opening the market to this dynamic, where there is opportunity to earna
return on cost-effective, high quality patient management and outcomes, will stimulate the
development and adoption of an entirely new set of enabling technologies and business models,
which represent opportunity for innovative, technology-based, development and growth stage
companies.

27 National Academy of Sciences, “Best Care at Lower Cost: The Path to Continuously Learning Health Care in America”

26 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024037
