3

slow and often costly business. This is one of the particular
grievances that have powered the protest movement, though certainly
the ripples of the successful Egyptian and Tunisian uprisings played a
hand. The government, to put it bluntly, responded poorly. Troops in
Daraa fired live rounds against youthful demonstrators and virtually
all communications -- Internet and telephone -- were shuttered to
prevent the seepage of unrest.

To make matters worse, Damascus blamed Israeli provocateurs, rebel
forces, and shady foreign agents for the bloodshed -- anyone but its
own forces. Civilian deaths at the hands of security forces there, and
more recently in the coastal city of Latakia, have outraged opinion
across the country, setting alight long pent-up anger at the denial of
basic freedoms, the monopolistic rule of the Baath party, and the
abuses of a privileged elite. To these ills should be added severe
youth unemployment, devastation of the countryside by a grave
shortage of rainfall over the past four years, and the impoverishment
of the middle and lower classes by low wages and high inflation.

In response to the public unrest, the regime has released some
political prisoners and pledged to end the state of emergency in force
since 1963. A government spokeswoman has hinted that coming
reforms will include greater freedom for the press and the right to
form political parties. President Bashar al-Assad is due to address the
country in the next 48 hours. His speech is eagerly awaited, but it
remains to be seen whether it will be enough to defuse the crisis and
win time for the regime. If not, demonstrations could gather pace,
triggering still more violent repression by the security services -- an
escalation with unpredictable consequences.

The protesters have in fact challenged the fundamentals of Syria's
security state, a harsh system of controls over every aspect of society,
put in place by the late Hafez al-Assad, Bashar's father, who ruled for
30 years from 1970 to his death in 2000. By all accounts, the debate

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030032
