25. The Wall Street Journal, July 18, 2005 (http://www.technologyinvestor.com/login/2004/Jull 8—
05.php).

26. This was a new product category that I created to eliminate and preempt the competition. Strive to
be the largest, best, or first in a precise category. I prefer being first.

27. If you decide to resell someone else’s higher-end products like Doug, especially with drop-
shipping, the risk is lower and smaller margins can suffice.

28. “Back-end” products are products sold to customers once the sale of a primary product has been
made. iPod covers and car GPS systems are two examples. These products can have lower margins,
because there is no advertising cost to acquire the customer.

29. “Cross-selling” is selling a related product to a customer while they’re still on the phone or in an
online shopping cart after the sale of a primary product has been made. For a full marketing and direct

response (DR) glossary, visit www.fourhourblog.com.
30. This also refers to owners of copyrights or trademarks.

31. Said casually and with confidence, this alone will get you through surprisingly often. “I'd like to
speak with Mr./Ms. X, please” is a dead giveaway that you don’t know them. If you want to up the
chances of getting though but risk looking foolish if they call the bluff, ask for the target mentor by
first name only.

32. I use this type of lead-in whenever making off-the-wall requests. It softens it and makes the
person curious enough to listen before spitting out an automatic “no.”

33. This answers the questions they’ll have in their head: “Who are you and why are you calling
now?” I like to be a “first-time” something to play the sympathy card, and I find a recent media
feature online to cite as the trigger for calling.

34. I call people ?'m familiar with. If you can’t call yourself a longtime fan, tell them that you have
followed the mentor’s career or business exploits for a certain number of years.

35. Don’t pretend to be strong. Make it clear you’re nervous and they’ll lower their guard. I often do
this even if I’m not nervous.

36. The wording here is critical. Ask them to “help” you do something.

37. Just rework the gatekeeper paragraph for this, and don’t dillydally— get to the point quickly and
ask for permission to pull the trigger.

38. End the conversation by opening the door for future contact. Start with e-mail and let the
mentoring relationship develop from there.

10)

Income Autopilot I

= TESTING THE MUSE

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013907
