on a motorbike parked on the sidewalk outside the Tehran home of
Masoud Alimohammadi; the nuclear physicist was killed when it was
detonated by remote control.

In the broadcast, Fashi accurately described the Mossad campus north of
Tel Aviv. He said he had been given a laptop equipped with a second
operating system and used it to communicate through online drop boxes.
He was impressed by his handlers’ thoroughness. At one point Fashi
described studying a scale model of Alimohammadi’s street. “It was an
exact copy of the real one,” Fashi said. “The tree next it, the street curb,
the bridge.” In a later broadcast, he was seated across from
Alimohammadi’s widow, who glared at him as he bowed his head and
wept. Mossad officials were “pissed off and shocked” seeing their agent
on television, the intelligence official said.

Fashi was executed in May 2012. About the same time, Iran’s intelligence
minister announced the arrest of 14 more Iranians, eight men and six
women dubbed members of the “Terror Club” in the subsequent_prime-
time broadcast of that name. Filmed in shadow, and rich in atmospherics,
the Aug. 5 program recreated Alimohammadi’s death and four subsequent
attacks: they started with the Nov. 29, 2010 nearly simultaneous attempts
on Majid Shariari and Fereydoun Abbasi, nuclear scientists driving to
work when magnetic “sticky bombs” were attached to the side of their cars
from passing motorcycles. Abbasi managed to escape before it detonated,
saving his wife as well. Shariari was killed — a significant setback for the
Iranian nuclear program where he was the top scientist, according to a
Western intelligence official.

The confessed agents offered absorbing detail — they were aboard a Bajaj
Pulsar, wearing helmets, when the magnet bomb stuck on the right front
panel of Shariari’s car exploded. The riders scrambled into the “trail car”
assigned to follow the target and disappeared into the traffic of the Imam
Ali Autobahn. Already gone was the car assigned to cut off and slow the
car carrying the scientist. They claimed to have rehearsed on a practice
track inside Israel. None of the details could be confirmed, but an
intelligence official acknowledged: “Another network was taken.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018210
