Date: 7/13/06 @.: BEACH POLICE DEPARTMEN Page: B4

Time: 9:27:55 Incident Report Program: CMS301L

Case No. . - +: 1-05-000368 . (Continued)

Atty Guy Fronstin and acknowledged the deal made between them.

Fronstin stated in the message, he spoke with his client, Jeffrey b6é
Epstein, and agreed to the deal. Fronstin asked to call off the grand 7c
jury as they would accept this deal. Belohlavic stated a probable

cause would be needed to book Epstein in the county jail and would let

me know as to when it would be needed. I explained my disapproval of

the deal and not being consulted prior to the deal being offered.

However I expressed that was only my opinion and the final approval

would come from the Chief of Police. She explained to have Chief

Reiter call Barry Krisher about the deal. I left the area and

returned to the police station where I briefed the Chief about the

deal offered.

stepmother for the victim She was calling because the State
Attorney's Office still had not returned any of her calls as to when
they are needed for this case. I then called ASA Belohlavic's office
and left messages for her to call the victims on this case and
explained to them what the State Attorney's Office had done.

I checked my voice mail mee | 8 and discovered a message from[___]

On April 17, 2006, at approximately 4:30 pm, State Attorney
Investigator Tim Valentine called to officially notify me of the
cancellation of the Grand Jury. He requested I contact the victims
that had been served to appear, to notify them of the cancellation. I
advised Valentine that as this Grand Jury session was called based on
the State Attorney's Office decision to have the victims heard by the
Grand Jury that I felt it was the States Attorney's Office
responsibility to contact the victims and advise them of the reason
they were no longer needed.

KKK KEKE KE RK EEE RKKEEEEEKEKEEKK MN AR RA T IV Ei ft 43 RRR KRRERRA KK RK EEK ER EKEERE
NA Reported By: RECAREY, JOSEPH 5/04/06
Entered By.: ALTOMARO, NICKIE A. 5/04/06

As I had not received any contact from anyone at the State Attorney's
Office, on May 1, 2006, I prepared three arrest warrant requests and
submitted them to the State Attorney's Office. The packages were
delivered to the Crimes against Children Unit in care of ASA Lana
Belohlavek. Jeffrey Epstein's arrest warrant was requested for 4
counts of Unlawful Sexual activity with certain minors and one count
of. Lewd and Lascivious Molestation. EM, Epstein's
assistant's, arrest warrant request was for 4 counts of Principal in
the 1st degree Unlawful Sexual activity with certain minors and one
count of Principal in the 1st degree Lewd and Lascivious Molestation. °

's arrest warrant request was for Lewd and Lascivious
Acts on a victim under 16 years of age. The receipt of delivery was
signed and brought back to the records division at the police
department.

On May 3, 2006, at approximately 2:54 pm, I received a telephone call
from ASA Daliah Weiss on my cellular telephone. ASA Weiss advised she

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019037
