19

MIKA WHO?

he media had unlocked the value of Donald Trump, but few in the media had
“TP unlocked it more directly and personally than Joe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski.
Their MSNBC breakfast show was an ongoing soap-opera-ish or possibly Oprahesque
drama about their relationship with Trump—how he had disappointed them, how far they
had come from their original regard for him, and how much and how pathetically he
regularly embarrassed himself. The bond he once had with them, forged through mutual
celebrity and a shared proprietary sense of politics (Scarborough, the former congressman,
seemed to feel that he ought reasonably to be president as much as Donald Trump felt he
should be), had distinguished the show during the campaign; now its public fraying
became part of the daily news cycle. Scarborough and Brzezinski lectured him, channeled
the concerns of his friends and family, upbraided him, and openly worried about him—
that he was getting the wrong advice (Bannon) and, too, that his mental powers were
slipping. They also staked a claim at representing the reasonable center-right alternative to
the president, and indeed were quite a good barometer of both the center-right’s efforts to
deal with him and its day-to-day difficulties of living with him.

Trump, believing he had been used and abused by Scarborough and Brzezinski,
claimed he’d stopped watching the show. But Hope Hicks, every morning, quaking, had to
recount it for him.

Morning Joe was a ground-zero study in the way the media had over-invested in
Trump. He was the whale against which media emotions, self-regard, ego, joie de guerre,
career advancement, and desire to be at the center of the story, too, all churned in nearly
ecstatic obsession. In reverse regard, the media was the same whale, serving the same
function, for Trump.

To this Trump added another tic, a lifelong sense that people were constantly taking
unfair advantage of him. This perhaps came from his father’s cheapness and lack of
generosity, or from his own overawareness of being a rich kid (and, no doubt, his
insecurities about this), or from a negotiator’s profound understanding that it is never win-
win, that where there is profit there is loss. Trump simply could not abide the knowledge

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020071
