24 Teaching Minds

want to become teachers but the faculty are focusing on their
graduate students. They don’t teach the teachers. They do it, but
it is not their focus.

The average professor of education here understands that he
is supposed to teach teachers to teach but he gets evaluated on
his research not on the quality of teachers who come out. It is
a research university. How many dollars do you bring in? How
much do you publish? Where would quality of teacher training
fit in that model?

So, again, what exactly is effective teaching? Let’s look at two of the lon-
ger versions of what my former Ph.D. students and former employees
wrote to me when I asked about good teaching. These stories each need
some context in order to be understood, and then I will comment.

The first story is from a Ph.D, student of mine who then continued
to work with me for 30 more years.

You were collecting key things teachers needed to know to do
story curricula properly. Your contribution was “know when to
lie to students.” That triggered all kinds of discussion, pro and
con, leading eventually to a longer, more explicit statement
about knowing when to oversimplify, etc.

Reflecting on it later, I realized that “know when to lie to
students” was the right way to say it. The rephrased version was
too reasonable. It didn’t trigger any emotional reaction and re-
evaluation. “Know when to lie” is a lie, but that’s the point.

Why is this story important? I placed it here because it reflects an
important belief that I hold about teaching. At the moment to which
he is referring, we were writing, as a group, a set of guidelines on how
to teach Socratically using the online curricula we were building for
high schools. We were, in essence, writing an instruction manual for
teachers on how to teach in a new way. When I supervise very smart
people who know perfectly well how to do things, I deliberately pro-
voke them. I believe that my job is to make them think. There is no
better way to make people think than by annoying them in a way that
makes them defend their point of view, especially when their point of
view may not have been well thought out.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023770
