8 CHINADAILY.COM.CN/OPINION

MONDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2014

CHINA DAILY

+a
EDITORIAL

A foundation of law

THE FOURTH PLENARY SESSION OF THE 18TH
Central Committee of the Communist Party of China opens on
Monday and will last for four days. The designated theme —
governing through the rule of law — indicates how important
this meeting will be for the future of both the Party and the
country.

That this is the first time in 17 years the Party has designated
such a theme for a plenary session speaks volumes about the
importance the new leadership attaches to it. It is high on the
agenda.

Yet, the more the concept of rule of law has been discussed,
the more obvious it becomes that there is, today, much to be
desired.

More than 50 minister-level or higher officials have either
been indicted or placed under investigation for abuse of power
in the past year or so, underlining the fact that the rule of lawis
sorely needed. It is perhaps the only way to eliminate, once
and for all, the most serious threat to good governance and to
secure the blessings of prosperity and justice to the people.

The fact that power today can effectively nullify the law, and
that those in power can circumvent it, not only deprives the
Party of its capacity to govern the country in a consistently fair
and just manner but also disrupts the reasonable running of
the marketplace. Abuse of power makes it impossible for fair-
ness to prevail in the socialist market economy.

Despite the great achievements China has made over more
than three decades, it will be very difficult for its economy to
grow in a sound manner — and neither will society progress in
a healthy way — unless fair competition and mutual trust can
be secured and ordinary people’s rights and interests can be
guaranteed through the rule of law.

If the country is to achieve further reforms in various fields
and establish and maintain a fair and just society, the power-
worshipping mentality among government and Party officials
must be eliminated. This is a core goal of the leadership.

Unless the overwhelming majority of Party and government
officials not only respect the law, but follow it when making
decisions, governing the country by the rule of law will
amount to little but lip service.

It will be no easy job, and it will take time for the power-ori-
ented way of doing things to be transformed. But the new Par-
ty leadership has shown it has the courage to face the
challenge. We therefore have reason to expect much from the
current plenary session as they work to put the country on the
right track.

OTHER VIEWS

Historic moment

he convocation of the Fourth Plenary Session of the 18th Com-
munist Party of China Central Committee, whose theme is
promoting the rule of law, embodies the CPC’s deepening percep-

tion on governance and the law.
www.people.com.cn October 15.

tis the first time that the CPC, as the ruling Party, will make a

comprehensive plan on the rule of law in the form of a Party doc-
ument. The session, which marks the ruling Party’s significant
strategic layout on how to govern the nation in accordance with
Jaws and the Constitution, illustrates its new exploration of social-
ism with Chinese characteristics. The CPC Central Committee will
focus on discussions on how to promote rule of law in at a plenary
session. ...

It has only six years to 2020, the deadline set for the realization
of a well-off society for China, and 35 years to 2049, the promised
year for China to be a prosperous, democratic, civilized and har-
monious socialist modern nation. All these mean China has
entered a crucial stage of deepened reforms. Only by sticking to
“governance of the nation according to laws” will China realize its
historic mission.

www.xinhuanet.com.cn October 19.

he National People’s Congress, China’s top legislature, should
play a bigger role in the country’s efforts to promote the rule of
law. For example, the NPC can push for deepened reforms within
the framework of the Constitution and laws through legislation to
realize a benign interaction between reforms and the rule of law.
The deeper the water China’s reforms will enter, the more legal
guidance and guarantees these reforms will need. The NPC enjoys
a broad space for maneuvering in this regard.
Beijing News October 17

n the last three months, the Political Bureau of the CPC Central
Committee has held two conferences studying major issues
related to comprehensively pushing for the rule of law. As the
theme “Chinaruled by law” is set for the Fourth Plenary Session of
the 18th CPC Central Committee, the overall planning and
prospect of a China governed by law will become increasingly

explicit.
Lianhe zaobao October 14

CONTACT US

China Daily

15 Huixin Dongjie Chaoyang, Beijing 100029

News: +86 (0) 10 6491-8366; editor@chinadaily.com.cn
Subscription: +86 400-699-0203; sub@chinadaily.com.cn
Advertisement: +86 (0) 10 6491-8631; ads@chinadaily.com.cn
Phone app: chinadaily.com.cn/iphone

China Daily USA China Daily UK
1500 Broadway, Suite 2800, New 90 Cannon Street London EC4N 6HA
York, NY 10036 +1 212 537 8888 +44 (0) 207 398 8270

editor@chinadailyusa.com editor@chinadailyuk.com
China Daily Hong Kong (Asia)
Room 1818, Hing Wai Centre 7 Tin Wan
Praya Road Aberdeen, Hong Kong
+852 2518 5111
editor@chinadailyhk.com
editor@chinadailyasia.com

China Daily Africa

P.O.Box 27281-00100, Nairobi, Kenya
+254 (0) 20 522 3498 (Nairobi)
editor@chinadailyafrica.com
enquities@chinadailyatrica.com
subscription@chinadailyafrica.com

ROBERT LAWRENCE KUHN

Decoding Xi’s future vision

President Xi’s new book reveals his thinking about the country’s
governance and maps out a path for achieving the Chinese Dream

he Governance of China, Presi-
dent Xi Jinping’s new book, is
unprecedented. Can analyzing
the book elucidate Xi’s thinking
and illuminate China’s future?
Consider seven frameworks or
perspectives: publishing purpos-
es, overarching themes, content analysis, chain of
developmental causation, domestic goals, domes-
tic means and global principles.

Publishing Purposes: substance,
symbol, signal. Substance means Xi's political phi-
losophy and wide-ranging policies — organizing 79
speeches and commentaries in 18 chapters — to
discern how Xi intends to realize the Chinese
Dream, “the great rejuvenation of the Chinese
nation’: Symbol means recognizing Xi’s emergence
as China’s leader, with greater authority, confi-
dence and support than observers had expected
when he first took office two years ago. Signal
Means communicating Xi’s way of thinking to
global audiences in nine languages, an original
and explicit outreach to engage the world on mul-
tiple levels.

Overarching Themes: pride, stability, respon-
sibility, vision. Pride expresses the yearning of the
Chinese people for the “great rejuvenation” Stabili-
ty means maintaining the current political system.
(Socialism with Chinese characteristics and the
Party’s leadership). Responsibility means “realiz-
ing a moderately prosperous society by the centen-
ary of the Party in 2021” Vision means “turning
China into a prosperous, democratic, culturally
advanced and harmonious modern socialist coun-
try by the centenary of the People’s Republic of
China in 2049”

Content Analysis. How does Xi impute impor-
tance to topics? By examining what's in Xi’s book,
can we explore what's on Xi’s mind? Of the book’s
18 chapters, 11 relate to domestic affairs, seven to
foreign affairs; six have political relevance; six con-
cern standards of living; and four standards of

LI MIN

FU JING

behavior. Categorizing the content, about a third is
politics and people; another third on international
relations; about 15 percent each on reform and
development, and society and culture; and about 8
percent on national security and defense. Perva-
sive throughout is reform.

Chain of Developmental Causation. The
Chinese Dream is founded on political stability,
which enables far-reaching reform, which in turn.
promotes economic development, and which,
when combined with rule of law and Chinese val-
ues, strengthens China’s society, culture, ecology
and even defense. Where is this “chain of causa-
tion” in Xi’s book?

The first and last chapters affirm political stabili-
ty: “Socialism with Chinese Characteristics” and
“The CPC Leadership’, both of which assert the
Party’s political primacy and thus assure social sta-
bility. “The Chinese Dream” is the second chapter,
proclaiming the grand mission of national resur-
gence and personal well-being. Then, chapters on.
deepening reform and economic development,
which lead to chapters on rule of law, advanced cul-
ture, social undertakings and ecological progress.

Domestic Goals: values, morality, prosperity,
Sairness, happiness. Values: Xi's vision is to incul-
cate China’s traditional values — “the thoughts of
the ancient sages”; exemplified by Confucianism —
into socialist core values. (“We must take tradition-
al Chinese culture as the base.”) Morality: Derived
from values, morality is described as “conscious
law’, and “civic morality” is characterized as need-
ing improvement, while “paragons of morality are
important banners for building public ethics” (“A
gentleman takes morality as his bedrock” — a tra-
ditional virtue that Xi quotes.) Prosperity: “Com-
mon prosperity is the fundamental principle of
Chinese socialism ... We will accelerate China’s
overall prosperity” Fairness: Because the Chinese
people have always had a perception that “inequal-
ity rather than want is the cause of trouble”, Xi
says, China “should do a better job of promoting

fairness and justice” Happiness: The Chinese
Dream, Xi says, is to “bring happiness to the Chi-
nese people” to “ensure the people greater happi-
ness” — but, he cautions, “happiness does not fall
from the sky, nor do dreams come true automati-
cally.’ (In Xi’s book, “values” occurs about 120
times, “morality” 24, “prosperity” 67, “fairness” 44.
and “happiness” 16.)

Domestic Means: close to the people, realism,
stability, reform, rule of law, combating corrup-
tion. “Close to the people” is an all-encompassing
way of thinking that shapes all decisions. Realism:
“T have repeatedly said that the great rejuvenation
of the Chinese nation can in no way be realized
easily,’ Xi says. “While fully affirming our achieve-
ments, we should also be aware of our shortcom-
ings.” Stability: The precondition for all else,
stability is a recurrent and foundational theme
(“stability” occurs 125 times). Reform: Those who
wonder whether Xi is a “real reformer” should
read “Explanatory Notes ... Concerning Compre-
hensively Continuing Reform” (page 76). Exam-
ples: the market plays a “decisive role”; farmers
given transactional property rights; the judicial
system separate from the administrative system.
Rule of Law: “A fundamental principle” and “the
basic way to run the country” — the Fourth Plena-
ry of the 18th CPC Central Committee, focusing on
tule of law, is Xi’s call to action. Combating corrup-
tion is a hallmark of Xi’s administration, enhanc-
ing each of the five other domestic means. It is no
accident that the chapter on combating corruption.
is positioned, significantly, between “Close Ties
with the People” and “The CPC Leadership”

Ibear witness to Xi’s consistency. In 2006, Adam
Zhu (my long-term partner) and I met privately
with then-Zhejiang Party Secretary Xi. He stressed
that while China should be properly proud of its
successes, “achievements should not engender
complacency” Xi said: “We need to assess our-
selves objectively”

Global Principles. Consider five. Independ-
ence (China remains unaligned). Multi-polar
world (no country dominates). One country, two
systems (Hong Kong, Macao, Taiwan). Peaceful
development (“We have made a solemn pledge to
the whole world that we will never seek hegemo-
ny”). Multilateral affairs (cooperation with the
global community). These five global principles
drive China's “new model of major country rela-
tions” (primarily with the US), “neighborhood
diplomacy” (Japan, Vietnam, Koreas, etc.), and
“cooperation with developing countries” (such as
in Africa). The Silk Road economic belt (land route
and maritime) is President Xi’s new initiative for
multinational development.

Here’s my blurb for Xi’s book: “This book is a
milestone, both in substance and symbol, offering
openly the political philosophy of President Xi Jin-
ping and recognizing his emergence as China’s
senior leader. While misunderstandings about
China and its leadership abound, there is now no
need to speculate about President Xi. Here is how
he thinks, candidly and comprehensively.’ It is the
pride of a patriot.

The author is an international corporate strate-
gist and political/economics commentator. He is
the author of How China’s Leaders Think and a
biography of former president Jiang Zemin. He
gave one of the speeches at the launching ceremo-
ny for Xi Jinping: The Governance of China, at
the Frankfurt Book Fair on Oct 8.

Courtesy, not confrontation, best for Europe

inister of Commerce Gao Hucheng
arrived in the lobby of the European
Commission's headquarters at 9
o'clock on Saturday morning. He was
Jed to the office of outgoing Trade Commissioner
Karel De Gucht, who has been a thorn in the side
of Chinese businesses because of his protectionist
attitude ever since he took over the job in 2010.

De Gucht, 60, will be replaced in a few days by
Swedish politician Cecilia Malmstrom, 46, when.
anewly constituted commission gets underway.

In the afternoon, the Chinese side announced a
long-awaited agreement in principle: Brussels
will not launch an investigation into subsidies of
China’s telecommunication imports into the
European market. The EU side still needs to go
through internal procedures for formal approval.
The threat was mainly targeted at Chinese tele-
communications equipment makers Huawei
Technologies Co and ZTE Corp.

While the big picture of relations has been a
positive one, the Europeans have annoyed Beijing
from time to time — for example, by allowing the
Dalai Lama to visit, by attacking China on human
rights and by imposing high trade barriers.

Despite such irritants, Beijing has sent con-
structive signals. In the first half of this year, Pres-
ident Xi Jinping paid the first-ever visit of a
Chinese president to the European Union's head-
quarters. And last week, at the summit of Asian
and European leaders in Milan, Italy, Premier Li
Keqiang hosted a special dinner for Barroso and
European Council President Herman Van Rom-
puy, thanking them for their contributions to pos-

itive relations. At the dinner, the leaders were
thought to have touched on the telecommunica-
tion trade dispute, which involves about 1 billion
euros ($1.26 billion) annually.

The path to Saturday's solution was similar toa
pattern set earlier, in mid-2013, after both sides
worked through an anti-dumping and anti-subsi-
dy investigation involving China’s multi-billion-
dollar solar panel exports to the EU. Brussels
began that investigation in 2012.

Beijing was unhappy that there had been no
high-level invitation to visit Brussels a year after
the launch of the investigation.

In May last year, Li made his first trip to Ger-
many after taking office and won the support of
the German government, which vetoed Brussels’
decision, following dozens of EU member states.

Li made a last-minute call on Barroso the fol-
lowing month, as Brussels was about to vote on
whether to end the solar panel dispute through
amicable consultation.

Li’s decisive role was crucial in preventing the
escalation of a trade war. If Beijing had opted to
deal with such disputes in an eye-for-eye, tooth-
for-tooth manner, both sides would have been
losers, with the EU taking the brunt. It has
already suffered two economic recessions, and
its jobless rate has been in double digits for a
few years now.

Of course, with the trade volume between Chi-
naand Europe expanding, and with investment
pouring into Europe, China’s government, its
businesses and its media must work to make the
most of the rising economic tide.

So far, there is no unified Chinese business
council in Brussels to represent and lobby for
Chinese investors in Europe. By contrast, a major
US business organization reportedly has 300 staff
members focusing on Brussels’ policymaking.

Alack of communication and influence can
easily lead to misunderstandings. Bureaucrats in
Brussels usually follow Washington's lead when
making policies that affect China.

Trade commission leaders need to make more
field trips to member states to learn how Chinese
businesses matter.

Take China’s solar panel exports for example.
The industry, which involves about 400,000
workers in China, has offered competitive prod-
ucts to thousands of European upstream compa-
nies and helped Europe achieve its status as a
green energy leader.

In telecom, Huawei and ZTE are deeply inte-
grated with European partners. And, incidentally,
Huawei is a steady job creator in Europe, where
young people, in particular, have faced huge
employment challenges.

If De Gucht had kept the big picture in mind,
he would not have made confrontational moves
against China and its businesses.

Overall, the EU recognizes China as strong stra-
tegic partner. This is the starting point for dispute
control. Amicability helps both sides win. With
confrontation, everyone loses.

The author is China Daily chief

correspondent in Brussels.
Sujing @chinadaily.com.cn

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023699
