262 13 Local, Global and Glocal Knowledge Representation

13.6.1 A Semi-Formal Model of Glocal Memory

To explain the notion of glocal memory more precisely, we will introduce a simple semi-formal
model of a system S that uses a memory to record information relevant to the actions it
carries out. The overall concept of glocal memory should not be considered as restricted to
this particular model. This model is not intended for maximal generality, but is intended to
encompass a variety of current AI system designs and formal neurological models.

In this model, we will consider S’s memory subsystem as a set of objects we’ll call “tokens,”
embedded in some metric space. The metric in the space, which we will call the “basic distance”
of the memory, generally will not be defined in terms of the semantics of the items stored in the
memory; though it may come to shape these dynamics through the specific architecture and
evolution of the memory. Note that these tokens are not intended as generally being mapped
one-to-one onto meaningful items stored in the memory. The “tokens” are the raw materials
that the memory arranges in various patterns in order to store items.

We assume that each token, at each point in time, may meaningfully be assigned a certain
quantitative “activation level.” Also, tokens may have other numerical or discrete quantities
associated with them, depending on the particular memory architecture. Finally, tokens may
relate other tokens, so that optionally a token may come equipped with an (ordered or un-
ordered) list of other tokens.

To understand the meaning of the activation levels, one should think about S’s memory
subsystem as being coupled with an action-selection subsystem, that dynamically chooses the
actions to be taken by the overall system in which the two subsystems are embedded. Each
combination of actions, in each particular type of context, will generally be associated with the
activation of certain tokens in memory.

Then, as analysts of the system S, we may associate each token T with an “activation vector”
v(T,t), whose value for each discrete time ¢ consists of the activation of the token T at time t.
So, the 50’th entry of the vector corresponds to the activation of the token at the 50/th time
step.

“Items stored in memory” over a certain period of time, may then be defined as clusters in
the set of activation vectors associated with memory during that period of time. Note that the
system S itself may explicitly recognize and remember patterns regarding what items are stored
in its memory — but, from an external analyst’s perspective, the set of items in S’s memory is
not restricted to the ones that S has explicitly recognized as memory items.

The “localization” of a memory item may be defined as the degree to which the various tokens
involved in the item are close to each other according to the metric in the memory metric-space.
This degree may be formalized in various ways, but choosing a particular quantitative measure
is not important here. A highly localized item may be called “local” and a not-very-localized
item may be called “global.”

We may define the “activation distance” of two tokens as the distance between their activation
vectors. We may then say that a memory is “well aligned” to the extent that there is a correlation
between the activation distance of tokens, and the basic distance of the memory metric-space.

Given the above set-up, the basic notion of glocal memory can be enounced fairly simply. A
glocal memory is one:

e that is reasonably well-aligned (i.e. the correlation between activation and basic distance is
significantly greater than random)

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013178
