Federal Register/Vol. 76, No. 168/Tuesday, August 30, 2011/Rules and Regulations

54013

But even if the new rule is understood
to compel employer speech, Section 8(c)
‘““merely implements the First
Amendment.” Brown, 554 U.S. at 67
(quoting NLEB v. Gissel Packing Co.,
395 U.S. 575, 617 (1969)). Thus, if a
First Amendment challenge to the rule
must fail, so too must a challenge based
on Section 8(c). Such was the holding
of the D.C. Circuit in UAW v. Chao.
There, the court was presented with a
preemption argument, grounded in
Section 8(c), challenging a Federal
procurement regulation that required
contractors to post a notice informing
their employees of certain NLRA rights.
The D.C. Circuit interpreted Section 8(c)
as coextensive with the scope of free
speech rights protected by the First
Amendment and upheld the
procurement regulation in light of well-
established free speech jurisprudence in
the labor context. See 325 F.3d at 365.

3. Lack of Contemporaneity With the
Enactment of the NLRA

Several comments attack the notice-
posting regulation for its lack of
contemporaneity with the enactment of
the NLRA. For example, many
comments criticize the regulation by
noting that ‘‘this is a new rule
interpreted into the Act 75 years after its
passage.”’ The Board rejects these
contentions for two reasons.

First, the Supreme Court has
repeatedly “‘instructed that ‘neither
antiquity nor contemporaneity with [a]
statute is a condition of [a regulation’s]
validity.”’ Mayo, 131 S. Ct. at 712
(alterations in original) (quoting Smiley
v. Citibank (S.D.), N.A., 517 U.S. 735,
740 (1996)); see also Smiley, 517 U.S. at
740 (deferring to a regulation “issued
more than 100 years after the
enactment” of the statutory provision
that the regulation construed). Second,
the argument fails to consider that much
has changed since 1935, the year the
NLRA was enacted. Unionization rates
are one example. As pointed out in the
NPRM and as confirmed by comments
submitted by the Association of
Corporate Counsel’s Employment and
Labor Law Committee, unionization
rates increased during the early years of
the Act, peaking at around 35 percent of
the workforce in the mid-1950s. But
since then, the share of the workforce
represented by labor unions has

Pilchak attorneys to revise the rule to specify that
employers ‘‘may post a notice of equal dignity
which advises employees of * * * additional rights
and realities.” Alternatively, the Pilchak attorneys
propose that the Board amend the rule to permit
employers to “alter the Poster and include
additional rights.” Adopting this suggestion would
compromise the integrity of the notice as a
communication from the government. It, too, is
therefore rejected.

plummeted to approximately 8 percent.
As a result, fewer employees today have
direct, everyday access to an important
source of information regarding NLRA
rights and the Board’s ability to enforce
those rights.

As noted above, “[tlhe responsibility
to adapt the Act to changing patterns of
industrial life is entrusted to the Board.”’
J. Weingarten, Inc., 420 U.S. at 266. It
would therefore be an abdication of that
responsibility for the Board to decline to
adopt this rule simply because of its
recent vintage. Accordingly, the Board
finds such arguments unpersuasive.

4, Comparison With Other Statutes That
Contain Notice-Posting Requirements

Many comments note, as the Board
did in the NPRM, that several other
labor and employment statutes enacted
by Congress contain express notice-
posting provisions. See 75 FR 80411
(listing such statutes). Though a few
such comments, such as those of the
International Brotherhood of Teamsters,
applaud the Board for “‘fill[ing] this
glaring and indefensible gap,” the bulk
of these comments instead argue that
the lack of a parallel statutory provision
in the NLRA negates the existence of
Board authority to issue this rule.

The Board notes that inferences
gleaned from side-by-side comparisons
to other statutes have diminished force
when an agency uses its gap-filling
authority under Chevron. There are
many possible reasons why Congress
did not include an express notice-
posting provision in the NLRA.
“Perhaps that body consciously desired
the [agency] to strike the balance at this
level * * *; perhaps it simply did not
consider the question at this level; and
perhaps Congress was unable to forge a
coalition on either side of the question
* * * ” Chevron, 467 U.S. at 865. But,
“(flor judicial purposes, it matters not
which of these things occurred.” Id.
Indeed, the central premise behind
Chevron and its progeny is that agencies
should be allowed reasonable latitude to
fill gaps arising from congressional
silence or ambiguity. Accordingly, “the
contrast between Congress’s mandate in
one context with its silence in another
suggests not a prohibition but simply a
decision not to mandate any solution in
the second context, i.e., to leave the
question to agency discretion.’’ Cheney
R.R. Co. v. ICC, 902 F.2d 66, 69 (D.C.
Cir. 1990) (labeling the expressio unius
est exclusio alterius canon “an
especially feeble helper’ in Chevron
cases).

Arguments contrasting the NLRA with
other federal enactments that contain
notice-posting requirements might have
some persuasive force if there were

evidence that Congress had considered
and rejected inserting such a
requirement into the Act. However,
nothing in the legislative history of the
Act so indicates. Indeed, there is not the
slightest hint that the omission of a
notice-posting requirement was the
product of legislative compromise and
therefore implies congressional rejection
of the idea. Cf. Ind. Prot. & Advocacy
Servs. v. Ind. Family & Soc. Servs.
Admin., 603 F.3d 365, 384-85 (7th Cir.
2010) (en banc) (Posner, J., concurring)
(inferring a private right of action from
statutory silence in a case where such
silence was not the product of
“legislative compromise’’). For these
reasons, the Board rejects the Motor and
Equipment Manufacturers Association’s
unsupported suggestion that there has
been an affirmative “legislative
determination not to include a posting
requirement by employers that have not
violated the Act.”

A number of comments point out that
Congress included a general notice-
posting provision in the Railway Labor
Act (RLA), which predates the NLRA.
Given the relative proximity of these
two enactments, some comments regard
the absence of a notice-posting
provision in the NLRA as strong
evidence that Congress did not intend
for there to be one. For reasons just
explained, the Board does not find a
side-by-side comparison with the RLA
availing. In addition, the Board notes
that although the NLRA and the RLA
share several common features, the
NLRA was not perfectly modeled after
the RLA. See Bhd. of R.R. Trainmen v.
Chi. River & Ind. R.R. Co., 353 U.S. 30,
31 n.2 (1957) (“The relationship of labor
and management in the railroad
industry has developed on a pattern
different from other industries. The
fundamental premises and principles of
the Railway Labor Act are not the same
as those which form the basis of the
National Labor Relations Act * * *.”’).

Finally, the Board notes that other
federal departments and agencies have
not understood Congress’s failure to
include an express provision containing
a notice-posting requirement in a federal
labor or employment statute as a bar to
such a regulatory requirement. Like the
NLRA, the Fair Labor Standards Act
(FLSA), which was passed in 1938, does
not contain a provision requiring
employers to post a notice of pertinent
employee rights. Yet the Department of
Labor adopted a notice requirement now
codified at 29 CFR 516.4. Furthermore,
the Board is unaware of any challenge
to the Labor Department’s authority to
promulgate or enforce the FLSA notice
requirement, which has been in effect
for over 60 years. See 14 FR 7516 (Dec.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022284
