thing, too, as I’m fired exactly one week later.

2002-2003 BrainQUICKEN LLC has taken off, and I’m now making more than $40K per month
instead of $40K per year. The only problem is that I hate life and now work 12-hour-plus days 7 days a
week. Kinda painted myself into a corner. I take a one-week “vacation” to Florence, Italy, with my
family and spend 10 hours a day in an Internet café freaking out. Sh*t balls. I begin teaching Princeton
students how to build “successful” (1.e., profitable) companies.

Winter 2004 The impossible happens and I’m approached by an infomercial production company and
an Israeli conglomerate (huh?) interested in buying my baby BrainQUICKEN. I simplify, eliminate, and
otherwise clean house to make myself expendable. Miraculously, BQ doesn’t fall apart, but both deals
do. Back to Groundhog Day. Soon thereafter, both companies attempt to replicate my product and lose
millions of dollars.

June 2004 I decide that, even if my company implodes, I need to escape before I go Howard Hughes. I
turn everything upside down and—backpack in hand—go to JFK Airport in New York City, buying the
first one-way ticket to Europe I can find. I land in London and intend to continue on to Spain for four
weeks of recharging my batteries before returning to the salt mines. I start my relaxation by promptly
having a nervous breakdown the first morning.

July 2004-2005 Four weeks turn into eight, and I decide to stay overseas indefinitely for a final exam
in automation and experimental living, limiting e-mail to one hour each Monday morning. As soon as I
remove myself as a bottleneck, profits increase 40%. What on earth do you do when you no longer have
work as an excuse to be hyperactive and avoid the big questions? Be terrified and hold on to your ass
with both hands, apparently.

September 2006 [ return to the U.S. in an odd, Zen-like state after methodically destroying all of my
assumptions about what can and cannot be done. “Drug Dealing for Fun and Profit” has evolved into a
class on ideal lifestyle design. The new message is simple: I’ve seen the promised land, and there is good
news. You can have it all.

Step I:
D is for Definition

Reality is merely an illusion,
albeit a very persistent one .

— ALBERT EINSTEIN

Cautions and Comparisons

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013811
