“The preconceived idea of what was considered prime and where you would build
luxury has completely changed,” says Jason Karadus of Town, who is director of sales
for the Charles along with Ginger Brokaw. “A lot of people in the industry smirked at
the pricing — about $2,500 per square foot ... Now it’s not so risky, which is why you’re
seeing companies like Extell building up what’s left to be developed up there.”

Every developable parcel seems to be getting snatched
up. Just take a three-story garage on 302 East 96th
Street, which developer Wonder Works bought in March
for $24 million. On the northernmost border with
Harlem, the developer plans to put up a 21-story, 48-
unit “affordable luxury” condo building — basically
right on the approach to the FDR. (Don’t worry, the
facade will have extra soundproofing.)

“The Second Avenue subway station for 96th street,
which will be one of the first ones opened, is just 200
feet away,” says Eric Brody, Wonder Works’ managing
partner, who adds that brokers are recommending
asking prices of $1,500 to $2,300 per square foot when
units go on sale next year. “The buyer is anyone who
can’t afford to be in all these downtown neighborhoods,
but still wants to live in the city and have incredibly
close access to a train.”

First look! Once a three-story Public transit of the future is why Andrew Ellis bought
garage, 302 E. 96th St. will become

a 21-story luxury condo.

Photo: Handout 2013. The 31-year-old consultant paid a mere $430 per

a fixer-upper on 95th Street and Second Avenue in

square foot for a one-bedroom garden-level duplex.
Then came a massive year-long renovation that updated the windows and kitchen
appliances. He also completely redid the backyard, adding a rear deck and koi pond. In
Yorkville, Ellis discovered a “neighborhood feel” that was a far cry from the raucous
scrum of Murray Hill, where he had been renting.

“Thad sort of grown out of that,” says Ellis, who is no longer alone in his move uptown.
“My high school friends and some college friends are migrating to the Upper East Side.
One is two doors down, literally, and two others are a few blocks away. Having that
subway there eventually is really what did it for me. This place can only go up.”

Andrew Ellis stands in his Yorkville backyard, which he completely redid, adding a deck (so that the outdoor
space was accessible from the upstairs living room of the duplex) and a kai pond.

Photo

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022440
