VICTIM NOTIFICATION SYSTEM (VNS)

VNS is a free service that provides victims of Federal crime with
information and notification regarding the status of the case and
the offender's custody status, to include dates of court
hearings, sentencing, parole and release. Information is
provided in English or Spanish.

To access this system, your Victim Specialist will provide you
with a Victim Identification Number (VIN) and a Personal
Identification Number (PIN). If you have chosen to
participate in VNS, but have not received these numbers,
please contact the Victim Specialist at your local FBI field
office.

You will receive letters, as updates to your case are
available. You may also call the VNS Call Center at
1-866-365-4968 or access VNS on-line at

http://www. Notify.USDOJ.gov for current case, court or
custody information. You will be prompted to provide both
your VIN and PIN when contacting the VNS Call Center.
The Call Center and VNS is available onthe internet during
the following hours (Eastern Standard Time):

6:00 a.m. - 3:00 a.m.

6:00 a.m. - 42:00 a.m.
8:00 a.m. - 12:00 a.m.

Monday - Friday
Saturday
Sunday

Department of Justice
Federal Bureau of Investigation

LIMITED CONFIDENTIALITY STATEMENT

As your Victim Specialist, | certainly am here to assist you as
you go through the criminal justice process. However, you
should know that | work as part of a team with the FBI Agent
and personnel from the United States Attorney's Office.
Discussions that you have with me may not be considered
completely confidential. As part of the team, there are times
when | may need to share information you provide with the
other team members. This is especially important if you
share information regarding your safety, a medical
emergency, when the information relates to child abuse
and/or when the nondisclosure of the information could
interfere with the investigation or prosecution of the case.

If you have any questions about limited confidentiality, you
may contact me for clarification.

Remember, your interests are important to us. Many victims
have questions and we are here to help provide you with
answers and practical assistance.

a E 4 Ceantt 

IMPORTANT CONTACT NUMBERS

FBI Victim Specialist:

Name

Phone

FBI Special Agent:
Name

Phone

INFORMATION CARD

Victim Identification Number (VIN)

Personal Identification Number (PIN)

Investigation/Court Case Number

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021558

