1.7 Five Key Words 9

a dramatic way to carry out some of its cognitive processes (a hypothesis for which there is no
current evidence), this doesn’t imply that these quantum phenomena are necessary in order to
carry out the given cognitive processes. For example there is evidence that birds use quantum
nonlocal phenomena to carry out navigation based on the Earth’s magnetic fields [GRM~ 11];
yet scientists have built instruments that carry out the same functions without using any special
quantum effects. The importance of quantum phenomena in biology (except via their obvious
role in giving rise to biological phenomena describable via classical physics) remains a subject
of debate [AGBD* 08].

Quantum “magic” aside, it is also conceivable that building AGI is fundamentally impossible
for some other reason we don’t understand. Without getting religious about it, it is rationally
quite possible that some aspects of the universe are beyond the scope of scientific methods.
Science is fundamentally about recognizing patterns in finite sets of bits (e.g. finite sets of
finite-precision observations), whereas mathematics recognizes many sets much larger than this.
Selmer Bringsjord [BZ03], and other advocates of “hypercomputing” approaches to intelligence,
argue that the human mind depends on massively large infinite sets and therefore can never be
simulated on digital computers nor understood via finite sets of finite-precision measurements
such as science deals with.

But again, while this sort of possibility is interesting to speculate about, there’s no real reason
to believe it at this time. Brain science and AI are both very young sciences and the “working
hypothesis” that digital computers can manifest advanced AGI has hardly been explored at
all yet, relative to what will be possible in the next decades as computers get more and more
powerful and our understanding of neuroscience and cognitive science gets more and more
complete. The CogPrime AGI design presented here is based on this working hypothesis.

Many of the ideas in the book are actually independent of the “mind can be implemented
digitally” working hypothesis, and could apply to AGI systems built on analog, quantum or
other non-digital frameworks — but we will not pursue these possibilities here. For the moment,
outlining an AGI design for digital computers is hard enough! Regardless of speculations about
quantum computing in the brain, it seems clear that AGI on quantum computers is part of our
future and will be a powerful thing; but the description of a CogPrime analogue for quantum
computers will be left for a later work.

1.7 Five Key Words

As noted, the CogPrime approach lies squarely in the integrative cognitive architecture camp.
But it is not a haphazard or opportunistic combination of algorithms and data structures. At
bottom it is motivated by the patternist philosophy of mind laid out in Ben Goertzel’s book
The Hidden Pattern [Goe06al, which was in large part a summary and reformulation of ideas
presented in a series of books published earlier by the same author [Goe94], [Goe93a], [Goe93b],
[Goe97], [Goe01]. A few of the core ideas of this philosophy are laid out in Chapter 3, though
that chapter is by no means a thorough summary.

One way to summarize some of the most important yet commonsensical parts of the patternist
philosophy of mind, in an AGI context, is to list five words: perception, memory, prediction,
action, goals.

In a phrase: “A mind uses perception and memory to make predictions about
which actions will help it achieve its goals.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012925
