Home > Palm Beach News

|

Attorneys want Jeffrey Epstein agreement thrown out

A

Attorneys want Jeffrey Epstein agreement thrown out

LATEST NEWS

Today: Thursday, April 7,
2011

Talk at Sea Gull Cottage to
focus on genomics

Palm Beach Women’s
International Film Festival
debuts Thursday in support of
women filmmakers

Day Academy pupils revisit
notable characters in Palm
Beach history

Gov. Scott at Midtown
Beach: 'Give me the list, he
tells officials about beach
concerns

By MICHELE DARGAN
DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITER

Updated: 9:41 a.m. Wednesday, March 23, 2011
Posted: 7:21 p.m. Monday, March 21, 2011

E-mail | Print | Share | Larger Type

Court papers filed Monday say the U.S. Attorney’s Office violated
the Crime Victims’ Rights Act by signing a nonprosecution
agreement with sex offender Jeffrey Epstein without notifying his
victims.

Attorneys Brad Edwards and Paul Cassell, representing Jane Doe
#1 and Jane Doe #2, want a court hearing, where they will ask that
the agreement be invalidated because, they say, the victims’ rights
were violated. If that happens, it could open up the 58-year-old
Palm Beach billionaire to a slew of federal charges involving sex
crimes with minors that were set aside by the agreement.

The motion, filed Monday in federal court in West Palm Beach,
accuses the U.S. Attorney’s Office of deliberately misleading the
victims by telling them the investigation was ongoing, while
concealing they had already signed a deal with Epstein.

According to the motion, the U.S. Attorney’s Office sent “false
notification” letters in January 2008 and May 2008 to the victims
saying “(t)his case is currently under investigation” after the
government had signed the agreement with Epstein in September
2007.

“The only reason that the (U.S. Attorney's Office) concealed the
existence of the non-prosecution agreement from the victims was
not to comply with some legal restriction, but rather to avoid a
firestorm of public controversy that would have erupted if the
sweetheart plea deal with a politically connected billionaire had been
revealed,” the motion says.

If Epstein were found guilty on federal charges, statutory penalties
ranged from 10 years to life.

Instead, the sealed pact was part and parcel of Epstein’s
acceptance of a state plea deal, where he received an 18-month
sentence for soliciting a minor for prostitution and soliciting
prostitution. He served 13 months segregated in a vacant wing of
the county stockade and was let out on work release six days a
week for up to 16 hours a day.

Edwards and other attorneys fought in court for a year before
successfully getting the agreement unsealed in September 2009.
More than 30 minor girls were identified as Epstein’s victims in the
pact.

http://www.palmbeachdailynews.com/news /attorneys—-want-jeffrey-epstein-agreement-thrown-out-1338111.html

4/7/11 1:37 PM

Palm Beach, FL
H: 84° L: 71°

Forecast | Set Location Feels Like: 85°

| SEARCH

® Site © Web Web Search by YAHOO!

PALM BEACH ESTATE

wi Pr be © He
241 La Puerta Way, Palm Beach

Exquisitely designed Mediterranean Palm Beach
walled estate.

al

corcoran.com

as

Je
% 3
TOWN OF PALM BEACH

\/ 1911+ CENTENNIAL + 2011 \/

ID Click here for the latest events! ID

Find us on Facebook

2,413 people like Palm Beach Daily News.

PA aN

Palm Beach Daily News
Like

Stanton Jackie Todd Diana Joe
4
?,
SS
Goharians James Karen

i Facebook social plugin

MOST RECENT ALBUMS

The Palm Beach Pamella Roland

Opera

The Society of the
Four Arts benefit

Page 1 of 3

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013408
