COVINGTON

The Honorable Richard Burr
The Honorable Mark R. Warner
May 22, 2017

Page 4

The court contrasted the concept of “reasonable particularity” with mere general
knowledge of an event or topic, finding that mere “prior knowledge [of a topic] . . . cannot suffice
to establish [the government’s] prior knowledge of the existence and location of the documents
relating or referring to those topics.” Id. at 326. Ultimately, the court held that “[bJecause the
government has failed to show with reasonable particularity that it knew of the existence and
location of most of the subpoenaed documents . . . Ponds’ act of production was sufficiently
testimonial to implicate his right against self-incrimination under the Fifth Amendment to the
Constitution.” Id. at 316.

B. Because the Committee’s subpoena fails to demonstrate with reasonable
particularity prior knowledge of the requested documents, General Flynn’s act
of production would be testimonial in nature.

The great breadth of the Committee’s subpoena to General Flynn suggests that his act of
producing the requested documents, if they even exist, would be testimonial in nature, given
that the Committee has not demonstrated knowledge of the “existence, possession, and
authenticity of the subpoenaed documents with reasonable particularity such that the
communication inherent in the act of production can be considered a foregone conclusion.” Id.
at 324. Schedule A of the subpoena requests production of:

1. A list of all meetings between you and any Russian official or
representative of Russian business interests which took place
between June 16, 2015, and 12pm on January 20, 2017. For each
meeting listed, please include the date, location, all individuals
present, and complete copies of any notes taken by you or on your
behalf.

2. All communications records, including electronic
communications records such as e-mail or text messages, written
correspondence, and phone records, of communications that took
place between June 16, 2015, and 12pm on January 20 2017, to
which you and any Russian official or representative of Russian
business interests was a party.

3. All communications records, including electronic
communications records such as e-mail or text message, written
correspondence, and phone records, of communications related in
any way to Russia, conducted between you and members and
advisors of the Trump campaign prior to 12pm on January 20,
2017.

In sum, the subpoena demands a list of “all meetings” with “any Russian official,” “all
communication records” with “any Russian official,” and “all communication records . . . related
in any way to Russia” conducted with unnamed “members and advisors of the Trump
campaign,” that occurred over an 18-month period. The broad sweep and lack of specificity of
these demands clearly reflect that the Committee does not have specific knowledge regarding

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031673
