Case 1:19-cv-03377 Document1 Filed 04/16/19 Page 26 of 28

95.  Dershowitz’s false statements directly stated and also implied that in speaking out
against sex trafficking Roberts acted with fraud, dishonesty, and unfitness for the task.
Dershowitz’s false statements directly and indirectly assert that Roberts lied about being sexually
trafficked and abused by Epstein and having sex with Dershowitz, and that Roberts committed
the crimes of perjury and extortion. Dershowitz’s false statements were reasonably understood
by many persons who read his statements as conveying that specific intention and meaning.

96.  Dershowitz’s false statements were reasonably understood by many persons who
read those statements as making specific factual claims that Roberts was lying about specific
facts, and committed the crimes of perjury and extortion.

97. Dershowitz specifically directed his false statements at Roberts’ true public
description of factual events, and many persons who read Dershowitz’s statements reasonably
understood that those statements referred directly to Roberts’ account of the abuse she suffered at
the hands of Epstein and Dershowitz.

98. Dershowitz and Epstein intended Dershowitz’s false statements to be widely
published and disseminated on television, through newspapers, by word of mouth, and on the
internet. As intended by Dershowitz and Epstein, Dershowitz’s statements were published and
disseminated around the world.

99. Dershowitz made his false statements on behalf of himself and Epstein in reckless
disregard of their truth or falsity and with malicious intent to destroy Roberts’s reputation and
credibility; to prevent her from further disseminating her life story; and to cause persons hearing
or reading Roberts’s descriptions of truthful facts to disbelieve her entirely. Dershowitz made his
false statements on behalf of himself and Epstein wantonly and with the specific intent to

maliciously damage Roberts’s good name and reputation in a way that would destroy her efforts

26

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017960
