When the pain relief kicked in, everything and everyone dwindled
away until I felt like Alice in Wonderland who just swallowed the
shrinking tablet and everyone standing around me seemed to move so
quick, speak so loud and hover above me. When I awoke from my
induced state, I was alone in a different room. Not knowing at all what
went on but feeling a little better, I called in the nurse who looked
through my charts and checked my vital signs. Then told me the doctor
would be in shortly to inform me of the conclusion to my illness.

He was a tall man with dark hair, and a hardened look about him
obviously from his job and constantly seeing the worst horror stories man
could think of, he just bluntly told me | had miscarried in early stages of
pregnancy. | should be fine to go home as soon as my course of
intravenous antibiotics was complete. The news sunk in fast and hit a
deep nerve. I waited for the doctor to close the curtain before I let out any
emotion and cried for my disastrous lifestyle that was dragging me into a
world that I wanted to break out of. This reoccurring cycle of believing I
needed men like Jeffrey to succeed in my life was draining the last bits of
sensitivity left in my heart. I was picked up by Jeffrey himself-who took
the doctor alone to the side of the busy hallway to have a private
conversation about something. Jeffrey wasn’t comforting at all, instead he
sent me back home to rest for a couple weeks, and | only fell deeper into
a depression, using all forms of self-medication to treat my sorrows.

Two weeks later, as if Jeffrey was trying to lighten my spirits, he told
me I would be going to his island to meet a new client. He is a Harvard
Professor, named Stephen Kosslyn. I would be spending two days with
him showing him around the island, dining with him, and treating him to
a massage whenever he wanted. Without Jeffrey even verbalizing the
need to have sex with him, he told me to keep him happy like I had my
first client. I packed my suitcase with island apparel, and kissed T.J good-
bye, who had at least offered me a warm embrace upon the news of my
miscarriage but none other than that knowing it wasn’t his.

Stephen was a quirky little man with white hair and a mad scientist look
about him. We arrived separately and I greeted him when one of the
housekeepers picked him up from the airport and arrived by boat, instead
of helicopter as Jeffrey and Ghislane often arrive on. We made our
acquaintances and he looked as if he was tripping over himself with
words, obviously delighted with his company and location for the
weekend. { showed him around as Jeffrey had asked and took him on an
adventurous quad bike ride around the small curvy paths, leading the way
and letting loose my hair, doing something that gave me a natural high
instead of the prescription one. The sights alone were breathtaking from
the mountainous peaks of the untouched parts of the island, we sat ata
cliff and just sat there, not saying a word to each other besides to

59

'] Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004 192

compliment the sights mother nature that appealed to us. I didn’t feel as if
lL owed this stranger anything but what was expected of me by Jeffrey and
I could be polite, I just couldn’t be myself.

We got back to the main villa to see what time dinner would be served
so we could have time to unpack and clean up beforehand. We both met
at six pm for dinner on the outside veranda. He sat at the head of the
table and I sat next to him, politely folding my napkin to put in my lap.
The first time Jeffrey and Ghislane had seen me cut meat and eat with a
fork and knife they were so appalled, making fun of my unsophisticated
habits. Ghislane took the fork and knife in her hands and proceeded to
show me how to politely cut my food and eat. Now that my mannerisms
had improved they wouldn’t have to be worried about my etiquette when
someone important was around anyone. We both drank the red wine
supplied on the table and it seemed to warm me up on the breezy night.
By the time dinner was served and another red wine bottle later, he
seemed to get funnier. | made fun of his tousled hair and he poked at me
for my skinny legs, calling me a wanna-be- anorexic. When dessert was
brought out, he asked if he could receive one of the delightful massages
he has been hearing about from Jeffrey. | gulped more red wine down and
sweetly complied with his offer, dreading the moment I'd have to see his
naked body, let alone touch it. I asked the housekeeper Kathy that had
been serving us that night to please have someone set up a massage bed
in one of the cabana’s. | went to my room to down a few Xanax, telling
him I wanted to freshen up after dinner but to meet me in his cabana in
twenty minutes or so. | was ready to go as | had said, twenty minutes
later, with the effects of the tablets mixed with the red wine, and I would
he free not to feel anything. He was still dressed when { got in the cabana,
obviously not accustomed to this and a lot shyer than what I had been
used to, I told him he’d need to undress and lie face down on the table,
putting a towel to cover his bare bottom to prevent him feeling
embarrassed during the massage. I gave the massage my earnest as I
always had, and quickly got through having intercourse with him. Not
wanting to make any foreplay or anything extravagant out of it, I let him
think that’s as good as it got, and by the smile on his face, J thought I had
done enough.

The next day I took him down to the beach for a real massage under a
tiki-hut on the waters edge. It was one of Jeffrey’s favorite places to have
a massage, as he droned out to the sound of the waves and my gentle
therapeutic strokes. Afterwards we had lunch back at the main villa and
went back down to the beach to swim out to the water trampoline about
one hundred meters off the dock. He didn’t do any bouncing around or
anything like that. It was just a good base point for a rest spot after a long

60

U Copyright Protected Material

GIUFFRL004 193

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021174
