Howard Stieglitz and Paul Krugman, two superb economists and Nobel Memorial
Laureates met with Obama and urged a 1.5 trillion dollar infusion, which would
have been almost exactly right. But they had both supported Hillary Clinton in the
primaries and so he went with his own advisor, Larry Summers who had a record of
major mistakes when working for Bill, not to mention as President of Harvard, so
Obama proposed an 800 billion infusion and then made the classic “Barry” mistake
by giving 400 billion of it to small business. This was well known to have no positive
effect whatsoever. Businesses do not invest during a recession, they wait for
demand to return. They are happy to get the money, which they promptly put away
in savings where it has no effect. In short, Obama’s stimulus was % the size it needed
to be. It did reverse the slide downwards leading to years of positive growth but the
effect was too weak when needed most and chants of “Yes we can” turned, in effect,
to chants of “Yes we can but it sure is gong to take a long time” and the Tea Party

swept aside many of his powers in 2010.

Barack was known as “Barry” growing up because his Kenyan father Barack was a
“rolling stone that gathered no moss” and his son always had to navigate two worlds
without the support of his father. He had all the benefits of outbreeding—tall, good
looking and very bright—and his ability to navigate the two worlds propelled him
upwards—into Harvard Law School, then first “black” Law Review editor, then
Illinois legislator—then his memorable “not Red States nor Blue States but United
States” speech at the 2004 Democratic Convention. But always with the flaw of

compromising where he should not.

The second major mistake he made right away was to appoint Hillary to be
Secretary of State, making peace with his defeated opponent, a nice gesture perhaps
but unheard of in US history. Why elevate your opponent? Why indeed. She will be
in a lead position to replace you 8 years later but will in fact usher in something far
worse. “Crooked” Hillary indeed—not because of some foolishness over e-mails but

because she was a life-long enabler of a thoroughly dishonest husband, as when she

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029449
