ALLEN GUTHRIE MCHuGH & THOMAS, PLLC

Mr. John Roth
June 19, 2008
Page 14

Appx. 849, 2006 WL 14581 at *3 (1 1” Cir. 2006) (to establish Sims’s guilt on the sex trafficking of
a minor count, the government had to show that Sims benefited financially from Owen’s sexual
activity and that Sims knew that (a) force or coercion would be used to cause Owens to engage in a
criminal sex act or (b) that Owens was under the age of 18.) (emphasis added). Again, none of these
factors is present in this case. The Eleventh Circuit’s interpretation of the statute makes perfect
sense: were § 1591 not limited in this fashion, it would threaten to criminalize a host of localized
behavior that has nothing to do with human trafficking, and, thus, is of no valid federal interest.

In sum, to accord discretion to the USAO, albeit without benefit of the requested full de novo
review, to exercise authority to pursue a prosecution which involves a “novel” application of three
federal statutes in the face of numerous “compelling arguments” is not warranted, as it is not
supported by the facts, the law, or justice. Echoing the admonition of the Supreme Court in the
Berger decision, the Comment to Rule 3.8 of the Rules of Professional Conduct (Special
Responsibilities of a Prosecutor), says it best “A prosecutor has the responsibility of a minister of
justice and not simply that of an advocate. This responsibility carries with it specific obligations to
see that a defendant is accorded procedural justice and that guilt is decided upon the basis of
sufficient evidence.” This is a responsibility that can not be taken for granted. The government bears
the burden of assuring that it possesses sufficient evidence to prove each element of a crime with
respect to some specific victim before publicly branding Mr. Epstein a child molester. In this case,
however, the USAO has not met its burden for any victim for any of the crimes alleged. It is not
enough to simply gloss over the required proof, and rely on the jury or the court to just sort it all out
in the end. The stakes are too high. As a result, the USAO should not be permitted to pursue an
unfounded federal criminal case against Mr. Epstein under the guise of prosecutorial discretion.

Such prosecution in this case necessarily would appear to be selective to Mr. Epstein. To be
clear, our request that Mr. Epstein should not be prosecuted federally would not permit him to go
completely unpunished, but, rather, would simply place him in the same prosecution position as
others similarly situated. Therefore, we continue to believe that after a complete, de novo, and
independent review, the only appropriate conclusion will be that this case is best left to the state to
resolve.

Very truly yours,

STEPHANIE D. THACKER
SDT/kdt
Enclosures

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012196
