in June and then again Sept, we both agreed to a 50% of phaidon payout first projected at 20 . but less
when artspace and debt taken out, - then only after weeks, when you delayed any detailed discussion of
money wanting to give the issue a thoughtful response ( which I fully understand ) . you unilaterally
changed our agreement.. 5m would be reserved for the future ? . and out of the remaining 15m ,? 1
would receive only a third. ( note : I'm confident that both the debt , and the art space investment will also
lead to a write- off of another 30 m. plus ) In my dining room ,you were surprised when I said that 1
require most people to pay their advisory fee up front so that I am assured that I will be properly
compensated for my work when strategies are implemented . you may recall that you appeared offended
and said  are you suggesting that i would go back on my word I said no , of course not ! you are my
closest of friends ,but my experience is that when amounts get large, people tend to get unhappy when it
actually comes time for them to pay.

I include below the email i sent to you on April 15, the day i was examining your returns It laid out
my understanding of the compensation agreed for a transaction of the magnitude to the penny of the one
just completed.ie 600m When it appeared that the transcation would and could go foward I was the
first to point out that our agreement would cost you too much money, therefore

From day one I proposed to discount our agreement toa 50-60 million range. An extremely fair price
for all the transactions just completed . including Phaidon. - I was never told that this was out of
range. in fact, alternative methods of payment . ie my plane, or an -in-kind payment were discussed (ie
including keeping the 30m portion of the fee outstanding till March ) ,I provided , only because you
specifically requested a detailed step by step execution plan and reviewed all documents that i was given
access to. ( Phaidon was never forthcoming ) in order to make my many corrections . ( as i said more
needed on phaidon ). Iwas then told that Alans involvement warranted a discount . Even in the best
of light , though it is beyond question that not one time in the three years of his retainer has he ever
proposed a unique idea. (including any way to deal with the use issue on debras death ,or even the most
basic review of your largest asset by far , the BRH agreement. ) O.K. - lets say he made a contribution to
the plan and stretch reality beyond the pale and say it was 50 %. though no one could posit such a large
amount unless they were wearing a clown suit. , the payment and our formula of 37 percent associated
with the deal was known . It had both sent in writing and spoken about on the phone numerous times ,

a detailed execution plan was provided . then and only then, after the entire transaction was laid out for
the group to follow You told me that after a number of conversations with brad karp that a total of only
20m would be paid , (and even that was more than you originally contemplated ) for both transactions .
Leon I feel It was remarkably unfair. Did brad even knew of our prior agreements.? ?, I would ask that
you I and Brad karp sit together if you think it would be helpful. . I would like to send him this email, with
your consent of course. Ifthe transactions were never consummated , 1 would not be owed a dime,
however , the expected fee was known up front. , the detailed step by step plan was followed and
overseen by me, the amount that I had requested before the transaction had even begun, had already
been heavily discounted, out of friendship, . I believe the decision re only paying 20 m has frankly , left
me felling quite uneasy. and colors the view about the Athene or Rothschild transaction.

Date: Sun, Mar 20, 2016 at 11:17 PM

Subject:
To: Melanie Spinel ae
glad to see you are personally on the mend - as well as the fence. -- As you know i dread money

discussions with you-- however -we should address the issue of what you would like to do moving
forward. re- do family office, accounting trusts , estate and apollo agreements . Along with your 
payment last year we agreed . no further obligations on each side. yes, i continued to moan. I realize
that though Ive done quite a lot this year already _, it is not your responsibility. . As you often like to

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023262
