43

to companies whose stock trades in the over-the-counter
market in the United States and which file periodic reports
with the Commission, such as annual and quarterly reports.
Unlike the FCPA’s anti-bribery provisions, the accounting
provisions do not apply to private companies.“

Although the FCPA’s accounting requirements are
directed at “issuers,” an issuer’s books and records include
those of its consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates. An issu-
er’s responsibility thus extends to ensuring that subsidiaries
or affiliates under its control, including foreign subsidiar-
ies and joint venture partners, comply with the accounting
ptovisions. For instance, DOJ and SEC brought enforce-
ment actions against a California company for violating the
FCPA’s accounting provisions when two Chinese joint ven-
tures in which it was a partner paid more than $400,000 in
bribes over a four-year period to obtain business in China.”
Sales personnel in China made the illicit payments by obtain-
ing cash advances from accounting personnel, who recorded
the payments on the books as “business fees” or “travel and
entertainment” expenses. Although the payments were made
exclusively in China by Chinese employees of the joint ven-
ture, the California company failed to have adequate internal
controls and failed to act on red flags indicating that its affili-
ates were engaged in bribery. The California company paid
$1.15 million in civil disgorgement and a criminal monetary
penalty of $1.7 million.

Companies may not be able to exercise the same level
of control over a minority-owned subsidiary or affiliate as
they do over a majority or wholly owned entity. Therefore,
if a parent company owns less than 50% of a subsidiary or
affiliate, the parent is only required to use its best efforts
to cause the minority-owned subsidiary or affiliate to
devise and maintain a system of internal accounting con-
trols consistent with the issuer’s own obligations under
the FCPA. In evaluating an issuer’s good faith efforts,
all the circumstances—including “the relative degree of
the issuer’s ownership of the domestic or foreign firm and
the laws and practices governing the business operations
of the country in which such firm is located”—are taken

into account.2””

Civil Liability for Individuals and Other Entities

Companies (including subsidiaries of issuers) and
individuals may also face civil liability for aiding and abet-
ting or causing an issuer’s violation of the accounting pro-
visions.”** For example, in April 2010, SEC charged four
individuals—a Country Manager, a Senior Vice President
of Sales, a Regional Financial Director, and an International
Controller of a U.S. issuer—for their roles in schemes to
bribe Kyrgyz and Thai government officials to purchase
tobacco from their employer. The complaint alleged that,
among other things, the individuals aided and abetted the
issuer company’s violations of the books and records and
internal controls provisions by “knowingly provid[ing]
substantial assistance to” the parent company.?! All four
executives settled the charges against them, consenting to
the entry of final judgments permanently enjoining them
from violating the accounting and anti-bribery provisions,
with two executives paying civil penalties.°? As in other
areas of federal securities law, corporate officers also can be
held liable as control persons.?*

Similarly, in October 2011, SEC brought an admin-
istrative action against a U.S. water valve manufacturer and
a former employee of the company’s Chinese subsidiary
for violations of the FCPA’ accounting provisions. The
Chinese subsidiary had made improper payments to employ-
ees of certain design institutes to create design specifications
that favored the company’s valve products. The payments
were disguised as sales commissions in the subsidiary’s books
and records, thereby causing the US. issuer’s books and
records to be inaccurate. The general manager of the subsid-
iary, who approved the payments and knew or should have
known that they were improperly recorded, was ordered to
cease-and-desist from committing or causing violations of
the accounting provisions, among other charges.”

Additionally, individuals and entities can be held
directly civilly liable for falsifying an issuer's books and
records or for circumventing internal controls. Exchange
Act Rule 13b2-1 provides: “No person shall, directly or
indirectly, falsify or cause to be falsified, any book, record
or account subject to [the books and records provision] of

the Securities Exchange Act.”?* And Section 13(b)(5) of

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022545

