e Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)
e Department of Homeland Security, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)
e Department of Homeland Security, Customs and Border Protection (CBP)

e Internal Revenue Service Criminal Investigation (IRS-Cl)

Zl. What are examples of other key agencies with responsibilities to combat money
laundering and terrorist financing?

Key agencies with responsibilities to establish policies and strategies to combat money laundering and terrorist
financing include, but are not limited to, the following:

U.S. Department of the Treasury

e Office of Terrorism and Financial Intelligence (TFl)

e Office of Terrorist Financing and Financial Crime (TFFC)
e Office of Intelligence and Analysis (OIA-T)

e Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN)

e Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC)

e Treasury Executive Office for Asset Forfeiture (TEOAF)

U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ)

e Asset Forfeiture and Money Laundering Section, Criminal Division (AFMLS)
e Counterterrorism Section, Criminal Division (CTS)
e National Drug Intelligence Center (NDIC)

e Office of International Affairs, Criminal Division (OIA)

U.S. State Department

e Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs (EB)
e Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs (INL)

e State's Office of the Coordinator for Counterterrorism (S/CT)

22. What publications and resources have been provided to the public by U.S. regulatory
and/or law enforcement authorities?
Examples of publications and resources include, but are not limited to, the following:

e FFIEC Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering Examination Handbook — Provides guidance to examiners
for carrying out BSA/AML and OFAC examinations for depository institutions. The manual contains an overview
of AML Compliance Program requirements, AML risks (e.g., products, services, transactions and customer types
of heightened risk), risk management expectations, industry sound practices and examination procedures. The
development of this manual was a collaborative effort of the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the NCUA, the OTS
(which has since been dissolved and replaced on the FFIEC by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
(CFPB), the FDIC and FinCEN to ensure consistency in the application of AML requirements.

e Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering Examination Manual for Money Services Businesses —
Provides guidance to examiners for carrying out BSA/AML and OFAC examinations for MSBs. The manual
contains an overview of AML Compliance Program requirements, risk management expectations, industry sound
practices, examination procedures, overviews of the different types of MSBs (i.e., check cashers, currency
dealers or exchangers, issuers of travelers checks and money orders, money transmitters), overview of the
relationship between principals and agents, and additional guidance on MSB registration requirements, foreign
agent or foreign counterparty due diligence, and recordkeeping and retention requirements for all types of MSBs.
The development of this manual was a collaborative effort by the IRS, state agencies responsible for MSB

protiviti | 15

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024121
