[9

regime had opted to fight, insisting that all its members were united:
“We will sit here. We call it a fight until the end.” He also issued a
transparent threat: “They should know when we suffer, we will not
suffer alone.”

Some have suggested that the two messages reveal a split in the
Syrian regime. That’s not convincing. The messages were not that
different, and to put Shaaban on the same level as Makhlouf is
absurd. Shaaban is viewed as a spokesman for the president, but she
plays no central role in the Assad-Makhlouf constellation. She
doubtless needed a green light to go ahead with the interview, one
that required some measure of approval by Makhlouf and Assad’s
younger brother Maher, both of whom have taken an eradication
approach to the protests. Makhlouf, in turn, needed no authorization
whatsoever.

What Shaaban said was likely intended to be interpreted in the United
States as a marginally soft statement by Bashar Assad. In contrast,
Makhlouf offered the harsher alternative if the president’s approach
was rejected by the international community. It was a classic good
cop, bad cop routine, and those familiar with Syrian manners will be
little surprised by the ploy. That’s why it seems far-fetched to assume
that we are witnessing a fundamental rift in Syria’s ruling family.
The reason for this is that there is no serious alternative to what the
Assads and the Makhloufs are doing today. They can either stand
together behind repression, or fall apart. That’s hardly to justify the
regime’s butchery of hundreds of unarmed civilians. Rather, it’s to
affirm that the Syrian leadership is incapable of undertaking anything
different. There simply is no reform option, and there never was.
Genuine reform means dislodging the bricks holding up Assad-
Makhlouf authority. Bashar Assad’s open-ended presidency, the
crony capitalism practiced by his cousin and other members of
Syria’s elite, the abuse practiced by the all-powerful security services,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030078
