Date: 7/13/06 . PALM BEACH POLICE DEPARTMENT Page: 43
Time: 9:27:55 Incident Report Program: CMS301L
Case No. .. . : 1-05-000368 (Continued)
As we entered onto the property, we encountered the house manager,
Janusz Banasiak who was in the guest portion of the house. The b6
guesthouse section had open doors and no forced entry was made. I b7C
made contact with Banasiak, Date of Birth Dd Fl DL

and informed him of the search warrant for the
premises. The members of the Police Department entered the residence
and announced we had a search warrant. A safety search was done and
members exited the home. I read the search warrant to Banasiak as Mgr
Parkinson videotaped the search warrant execution. Several interior
decorators were located on the property. I spoke with Mark Zeff, of

in New York. Mr. Zeff stated he is the designer for
Mr. Epstein's homes. He advised he was contacted in March of 2005 to
do a complete overhaul on the house. He advised he was on the phone
with Mr. Epstein when officers announced the search warrant. Mr.
Epstein was then made aware of the search warrant. Mr. Zeff advised,
his contact with Epstein is strictly business and he has never
witnessed Epstein with any girls except for his assistants, Hor

le

I then interviewed Daniel Estes, of[ ———sd' in’ Neew York.
Mr. Estes stated he has worked for Zeff for seven years. He advised
he personally worked on the New York and Palm Beach home for Mr.
Epstein. He has previously met with , Epstein's
assistants in New York and in Florida. they travel with
Epstein everywhere he goes.

Estes state

I interviewed Zara Bailey of [dt New Jersey.
Bailey stated she just arrived from Scotland and has worked with Zeff
for only one month. She stated she has never met Epstein and has not
seen him. The interview was then concluded.

I then spoke with Douglas Schoettle of L——~—~—C—C J inn New York
City. Schoettle stated he has been Epstein's Architect for seven
years. He further stated he deals with Epstein's assistants and
speaks with Epstein on the phone. Schoettle stated he mainly speaks
with arerserech Epstein s main assistant, who travels with Epstein.
Schoe é stated he only has contact with Epstein when his services
are needed.

At approximately 10:30 am, I was informed that the videotaping was
concluded. TI entered the residence and located two covert (hidden)
cameras. The first camera was a covert wall clock in the garage area.
I traced the wire behind the clock and removed the RCA wire and
unplugged the camera. The other covert camera was located within a
desk clock beside Epstein's desk. I traced the wire behind the clock
and unplugged the RCA wire. I could not locate another camera. [I
then began with the search of the residence for the specified
evidence.

My search consisted of the second floor. Det. Krauel and I began in
the master bedroom area where several items were located. They were

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018996

