The Question of When | 159

He offered to defect to the United States. The CIA accepted his offer,
and through this archive of secrets he had previously compiled, he
became one of the CIA’s most productive sources in the Cold War.

The job of an intelligence service is to take advantage of whatever
opportunities come its way in the form of self-generated spies. If
a Russian walk-in had not yet burned his bridges to his own ser-
vice, U.S. intelligence officers were under instructions to attempt to
persuade the walk-in to return to his post in Russia and serve as a
“defector-in-place,” or mole. “While defectors can and do provide
critical information,” a CIA memorandum on walk-ins during the
Cold War noted, “there are very few cases in which the same indi-
vidual may not have been of greater value if he had returned to his
post.” Of course, if a walk-in believed he was already compromised,
as Golitsyn did, a decision would have to be made whether the value
of his intelligence merited exfiltrating him to the United States.

This required evaluating the bona fides of the walk-in. Not all
walk-ins are accepted as defectors. Some walk-ins are deemed “dan-
gles,” or agents dispatched by the KGB to test and confuse the CIA.

® Others are rejected as political liabilities, as happened to Wang Lijun, ©
a well-connected police chief in China. In February 2012, Wang
walked into the U.S. consulate in Chengdu asking for asylum. The
State Department decided against it. After Wang left U.S. protection,
he was arrested for corruption and received a fifteen-year prison
sentence. Such decisions about walk-ins are not made without due
consideration, often at the highest level of a government, because
exfiltrating a defector can result in diplomatic ruptures and political
embarrassments.

Conversely, it raises espionage concerns when an adversary gov-
ernment authorizes the exfiltration of a rogue employee of an intel-
ligence service. At minimum, it suggests that a rival government
placed value on what the defector could provide it. The Snowden
case is no exception. Whatever Snowden’s prior relations might have
been with Russia, it can be assumed that after he fled to Moscow,
in light of the intelligence value of the stolen documents, he would
wind up in the hands of the Russian security services. That assump-
tion was reinforced by subsequent countermeasures that were
implemented by adversaries moved to block secret sources of NSA

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 159 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019647
