1) Upturn in inventory cycle: Defensives—Cyclicals

We expect cyclicals to outperform defensives, premised on our end-2017 $/¥ estimate of ¥120, and this is
supported by our above-consensus economic growth outlook. Our Japan economist sees a shift to fiscal
easing, firms countering the tight labor market by increasing capex, and estimates industrial production to grow
3.5% and 3.6% in 2017 and 2018, respectively. With the inventory cycle exiting a contraction phase and
entering a recovery phase, conditions are likely to remain conducive to cyclicals outperforming defensives
(Chart 1, Exhibit 3).

2) Higher inflation, rates: Deflation stocks— Inflation stocks

Up to 1H16, the Japan equity market saw continued preference for deflationary stocks as domestic inflation
remained subdued and the JGB curve underwent excessive bull flattening. Defensives outperformed cyclicals
(Chart 1), growth outperformed value (Chart 2), and stocks that benefit from a low-yield environment (REITs)
outperformed the converse (banks, insurance; Chart 3). However, we expect conditions to reverse into 2017.
We see US Treasury yields rising and Japanese core CPI inflation recovering to +1.4% yoy by 2018 and core-
core to +1.1% yoy. Stronger inflation and higher foreign yields should steepen the JGB yield curve above10yr,
while below 10yr should escape from downward pressure as BoJ rate cut expectations recede. Against this
backdrop, we expect to see a rotation from deflation to inflation stocks, which in addition to cyclicals means
banks and insurance should outperform REITs within the financial sector (Chart 3). This is also in line with the
global rotation expected by Michael Hartnett (The Flow Show: The Inflation Era Begins 10 November 2016).

3) Nikkei winner of steeper UST and strong macro

In a scenario of strong external demand and US rate hikes (particularly with curve steepening), Japan equities
tend to be the winner on a local currency basis, led by cyclicals, banks and insurance stocks (Exhibit 4).
Resurgence in the Japan macro trade of short yen / buy equities is also a possibility.

Our Buy-rated stocks in bank, insurance and cyclical sectors are listed in Table 1.

Shusuke Yamada, CFA
FX/Equity Strategist

Merrill ~ |

Global Research

Bankof America a
Merrill Lynch

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014400
