priorities, such as political and economic reforms. Israel has long
branded the Arab world as tribal and undemocratic, in order to brand
itself the only democracy in the Middle East. Well, soon enough it
won’t be. Many of its neighbors will soon join the democratic world
as demands for democracy grow. Democracy will mean more
development, prosperity and people’s power. It means more popular
participation in decision making and awareness of the possibilities of
the nation and what it can and cannot do. It may not mean more
hostility toward Israel if the latter knows how to deal with it. But
there will be tension if Israel continues to follow extreme policies,
which it will under the current leadership of Benjamin Netanyahu.
The Palestinians must achieve their right to establish their own state
on their land. This right has been recognized by almost everyone
except a minority of extremists in Israel, led by Netanyahu. Free and
democratic Arab countries won’t shrink from supporting this
Palestinian right under any circumstances. Muslims will not give up
on East Jerusalem, either. Arab regimes have been weak in the past.
Democracy will strengthen them, but also add reason to Arab
governance. Most Arabs have accepted Israel’s right to exist, and
accepted U.N. resolutions 242 and 338, but Israeli intransigence is
not helping them formulate a unified position.

Democratic Egypt won’t be a threat to Israel as the Egyptian military,
which will continue to be highly influential in Egypt’s politics in the
foreseeable future, will not risk another war with Israel. Egyptians
under a democratic regime will be seeking better living standards,
better laws to govern the country and more rights as citizens. They
won’t be pressing their government to fight Israel; on the contrary,
they want a stable economy where things will be better for future
generations. But Israel may aggravate the situation by electing
extremists and following extreme policies. This will strengthen the
hands of the hawks in the Arab world. Moderate Israel under

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031840
