24

intimidating. A broken leg, for example, may have been thought of as
terrible before choosing it over some other malady. However, after
choosing it, the subject would find a silver lining: With a broken leg,
I will be able to lie in bed watching TV, guilt-free. In our study, we
also found that people perceived adverse events more positively if
they had experienced them in the past. Recording brain activity while
these reappraisals took place revealed that highlighting the positive
within the negative involves, once again, a téte-a-téte between the
frontal cortex and subcortical regions processing emotional value.
While contemplating a mishap, like a broken leg, activity in the
rACC modulated signals in a region called the striatum that conveyed
the good and bad of the event in question — biasing activity in a
positive direction.

It seems that our brain possesses the philosopher's stone that enables
us to turn lead into gold and helps us bounce back to normal levels of
well-being. It is wired to place high value on the events we encounter
and put faith in its own decisions. This is true not only when forced
to choose between two adverse options (such as selecting between
two courses of medical treatment) but also when we are selecting
between desirable alternatives. Imagine you need to pick between two
equally attractive job offers. Making a decision may be a tiring,
difficult ordeal, but once you make up your mind, something
miraculous happens. Suddenly — if you are like most people — you
view the chosen offer as better than you did before and conclude that
the other option was not that great after all. According to social
psychologist Leon Festinger, we re-evaluate the options postchoice to
reduce the tension that arises from making a difficult decision
between equally desirable options.

In a brain-imaging study I conducted with Ray Dolan and Benedetto
De Martino in 2009, we asked subjects to imagine going on vacation
to 80 different destinations and rate how happy they thought they

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030291
