94 Teaching Minds

experimentation is performed repeatedly as the students predict the
effects of various modifications of the worm’s anatomy. Describing
their conclusions is important—the project’s goals; the worm’s anat-
omy, physiology, and behavior; and the interaction of anatomy and
function.

SPORTS MEDIC

The core of this rotation is four athletic injuries. In each case the stu-
dents examine the patients, describe their observations in detail, and
perform a formal differential diagnosis. The students must use judg-
ment and modeling to predict the effect of providing a competitive
athlete with an artificial bone implant.

DESIGNER GENES

This rotation has three primary activities. In all three, evaluation plays
a role as they discuss genetically modified animals, crops, and muscles.
Describing, planning, and influence all are involved as the students
prepare a congressman for hearings. All four of the social processes
come into play in formal debates.

What should be clear here is that what the health sciences curricu-
lum seems to be about and what it is actually about are very different
things. It seems to be about teaching health sciences content, when
what it is really about is having students practice various cognitive
processes that occur again and again throughout life. This was the goal
of the design, pure and simple: to help students practice thinking. It
really doesn’t matter what arena they are thinking in. We get them
interested in thinking by having them think about something that
interests them and is connected to a world they may wish to explore
later on in life. They may indeed learn something about that world as
well, but the point is the cognitive process-based education, not the
subject-based education.

I thought of the idea of building SCCs instead of using the normal
set of courses that constitute most students’ school year when I took
a job with Carnegie Mellon University (CMU) as the Chief Education
Officer of its new West Coast campus, located in Silicon Valley. There

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023840
