rhythm I was constantly being criticized for my efforts in pleasing him. I
was eager when he actually gave me a compliment. The rest of the
evening was always a surprise left up to a moments notice. Quite
regularly he would proceed with having the girls dress me up in some
sexy outfit and loads of makeup then entertain him with a lesbian
reenactment revolving him in the center. Sometimes they would use
dildos and other foreign sex toys, Ron liked to see us hurt during sex,
sometimes even penetrating me anally but I always resisted and would try
to redirect him with another sexual desire of his but I had no excuses
when it came to me having to use the sex toys on him, he told me how
men have g-spots in their rectum and instructed me on how to precisely
penetrate him. These nights went on what seemed like an eternal sentence
for the price of not living on the streets, where unfortunately for the one’s
still there, | feared and knew from my own personal experience, could be
much worse.

Needing some contact with someone of my adolescent mentality I
called one of my school friends from the past, whom I wont name out of
privacy, but PI call him T.J. We were so close and I knew very well, so
well, I had memorized his number a long time before. He was my first
puppy love sprung from of a childhood friendship. Being my very first
crush the summer before all of this happened he was the only person I
could think of that would care enough to talk to me.

In the middle of the day, the least busy time to be noticed, I snuck into
one of the vacant guest rooms and used the phone to call my good friend.
The sound of my voice radiated a chill in him. “It’s you, oh my God
Jenna! Are you okay?” he was so shocked to hear from me and the sheer
fact I was still alive. Nearly three months now without a single word to
my family or friends, every one doubted my return. My attempt to forge a
happy voice when I spoke to him failed and | absolutely crumbled when
he was at a loss for kind words for me. | told him of my current state of
affairs. Telling him of Ron and how I was terrified of him, trying to
escape in the middle of nowhere was useless. It was like being kept in
cage that I was unable to break free from. Going on to dump my issues on
T.J, I proceeded with how I longed to call my family and to be with my
them for good but was too afraid they didn’t want me, knowing I’d just
be sent away somewhere else again and to me after all this time was like
going from one cage to another.

He had been called by them numerously and promised me that they
were very worried and even hired private investigators to try and find me.
Given I was eleven years old the first time I was sent away, my trust in
there sincerity he spoke about was seriously doubted. | kept the
conversation short just in case my absence was being noticed and I left on
the note that I would speak to him again shortly. His attempts to get off

0 Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004142

the phone were nothing short of desperate plea to keep me on as long as
possible. | thought he was just trying to help in someway. Giving him
assurance in the fact I had survived this long obviously I can hold offa
while longer I gave him my love and told him I'd be in touch.

Thinking I had slipped away unnoticed I entered into the room that I
shared with Ron, hoping I got away with my brief and very needed phone
call. The place looked empty and everyone else seemed to be out and
about so I decided to have a bath in the spa and try to relax before the
night’s precautions. My body glided into the steamy water as I began to
think about T.J and how good it felt just to hear from a friendly voice. My
thoughts drifted into the days | missed when I felt | could be silly and
childlike and I nearly forgot for a moment how grown up | was acting
these days.

My first glimpse at the image surrounding me when | resurfaced above
the water was daunting. There was Ron was standing over my tub,
looking down at me with an eager display of his arousal. He began to
undo his pants and take them down when he told me “put your lips on my
cock”, [ was too slow in responding to his request so he grabbed me by
the back of the head and forced me into his groin. I had tears streaming
down my face as I looked up to him with the saddest blue eyes hoping he
would take pity and stop, but he never did. I was really hurt by his
aggression and he definitely knew it this time, which I believe only made
him more heated. I closed my eyes and began to count using the time to
keep my thoughts elsewhere believing every number I counted only
furthered me to the end of this. I just got over a hundred when he finally
exploded in fulfillment still half submerged in the deep bath I was
struggling to gain my bearings in as Ron was picked me up out of the
bath and carried me to go to the bedroom, which was just outside the
French adjoin doors. Still damp from the hot water in the spa I had goose
bumps from the chill of the fresh air where he brought me to the bed and
proceeded to deeply violate my every being. Eventually his scars that he
left were too deep ever to be healed and would even carry on through the
years to come.

Upon his bursting with pleasure for the second time, he just got up
and left, without even saying a word to me. Left alone I was awake for
hours after that. There was no escaping the pain that night. I lay naked
wrapped in the sheets, sobbing in the dark. My feelings of being hurt and
disgusted after his abusive ordeal ““When will it ever stop” | prayed to
God and begged for death rather than face another day in my life. | woke
up still alone the next day and exasperated from the misery I felt the night
before. Ushering through my drawers to find something to throw on |
could care less what lay in store for me today, couldn’t be as bad as being
raped by a scary man repeatedly.

10

( Copyright Protected Material

GIUFEFRE0G4 143

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021149
