e Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB): Established by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank), the CFPB is a federal regulator charged with regulating
consumer protection for financial products and services.

Other regulatory bodies were authorized by the Dodd-Frank Act, but their mandates deal more specifically with broad
prudential considerations and consumer protection.

18. What is the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC)?

The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) is a formal interagency body empowered to prescribe
uniform principles, standards and report forms, and to make recommendations to promote uniformity in the
supervision of financial institutions. Council members include the four federal regulators: FRB, FDIC, OCC, NCUA,
and the State Liaison Committee (SLC). The SLC includes representatives from the Conference of State Bank
Supervisors (CSBS), the American Council of State Savings Supervisors (ACSSS), and the National Association of
State Credit Union Supervisors (NASCUS).

19. Who are the key nonbanking regulatory agencies?
Nonbanking regulatory agencies include but are not limited to:

e Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC): The SEC is the federal regulator of the securities markets and
administers the federal securities laws (including the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the Investment Company Act of 1940, the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and the Trust Indenture Act of
1939), with direct regulatory and oversight responsibilities of securities exchanges, securities brokers and
dealers, investment advisers and investment companies, and self-regulatory organizations (SROs).

e Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC): The CFTC is the federal regulator of U.S. commodity
futures and options markets in the United States. It administers and enforces the federal futures and options laws
as set forth in the Commodity Exchange Act (CEA) and the accompanying regulations.

e Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA): Formerly known as the National Association of Securities
Dealers (NASD), FINRA is an SRO for broker-dealers.

e Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB): Established by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank), the CFPB is a federal regulator charged with regulating
consumer protection for financial products and services.

e National Futures Association (NFA): The NFA is the SRO for the futures market.

e New York Stock Exchange (NYSE): The NYSE is the SRO for exchange member organizations (i.e., registered
broker-dealer organized as a corporation, a partnership or an LLC that holds an NYSE trading license or opts for
NYSE regulation).

e National Indian Gaming Commission (NIGC): The NIGC is an independent federal regulatory agency whose
primary mission is to regulate gaming activities on Indian lands.

e IRS Tax Exempt and Government Entities Division (IRS-TEGE): The IRS-TEGE provides federal oversight to
all nonprofit organizations in the United States, including reviews to determine if nonprofit organizations are
facilitating terrorist financing.

e IRS Small Business and Self-Employment Division (IRS-SBSE): The IRS-SBSE has been delegated
examination authority over all financial institutions that do not have a federal functional regulator as defined in the
BSA, including MSBs, insurance companies, credit card companies, nonfederally insured credit unions, casinos
(tribal and nontribal), and dealers in precious metals, stones and jewels. The IRS-SBSE also has responsibility
for auditing compliance with currency transaction reporting requirements that apply to any trade or business
(Form 8300).

For further guidance on the AML responsibilities of broker-dealers, money services businesses and other nonbank
entities, please refer to the Nonbank Financial Institutians and Nonfinancial Business section.

eee eee eee eee Sc

20. What are the key law enforcement agencies responsible for combating money
laundering and terrorist financing?
Key law enforcement agencies responsible for combating money laundering and terrorist financing include:

e Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA)

protiviti 114

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024120
