Tuesday, December 13, 2016

Ulla F Muller students attend a pep rally to roll out the school's Positive Be-
havior Support and Interventions initiative on Nov. 30 on St. Thomas.

Ulla F. Muller students
pledge good behavior

Ulla F Muller Elementary School
rolled out its Panther PRIDE Positive
Behavior Support and Interventions
(PBIS) initiative at a pep rally at the
school on Noy. 30. The fun, high-ener-
gy event laid the groundwork to teach
students the behaviors that make up a
positive school environment.

Administrators taught the students
the core values of the school through
PRIDE: P — positive behaviors, R —
respect, I — individual responsibility,
D — determination and E — excellence.
Students held signs depicting the val-
ues while Muller cheerleaders and the
Boys & Girls Club performed to rally
around the cause.

St. Thomas-St. John PBIS district
coach Darian Torrice-Hairston, who is
assigned to Ulla F. Muller Elementary,
praised the event. “As the PBIS dis-
trict coach for Ulla F Muller Elemen-
tary School, I have certainly caught
the Panther PRIDE! It was evident that
the administration, staff and students
exhibited their Positive Behavior, Re-
spect, Individual Responsibility, Deter-
mination and Excellence. PBIS and its
strategies are a priority at Muller and
they are working hard to implement the
program as it fits their school,” she said

Following the rally, teachers will
continue to instill the Panther PRIDE
principles in students on a daily ba-

OK UCH

sis as well as demonstrate what Pan-
ther PRIDE looks in each area of the
school. School staff will integrate the
Panther PRIDE language into daily
routines to encourage students to strive
for excellence.

The PBIS initiative is rooted in evi-
dence-based practices meant to increase
behavioral and academic outcomes by
improving school climate, preventing
problematic behavior, increasing learn-
ing time and promoting positive social
skills. Up to five members from each
school were selected to attend training
facilitated by PBIS coaches from the
state and district. School representatives
were tasked with producing positive be-
havior values unique to their institutions
and introduce them to teachers and stu-
dents. The goal of the PBIS initiative is
to focus on what the students do right,
rather than on what they do wrong to
help encourage the repetition of good
behavior.

As Muller Elementary continues
to support its students through PBIS,
additional phases of the initiative will
be introduced, such as a positive re-
ward system as well as ceremonies to
celebrate student and staff success.
With the help of the district coach,
Muller’s in-house PBIS task force
will guide the PBIS initiative to sup-
port the school.

ERS

Wholesale & Retail

ISLAND LIFE

The Virgin Islands Daily News 25

id

vue be

Central High School students that participated in this year’s “Close Up Washington” trip to Washington, D.C., include

Ethaliah Henry, Jenna Malcomb, Nathan McGregor, Destiny Stout, Martisha Charles, Pellis Leonard, Franchel Ro-
driguez, Jayla Norman, Khaiel James and N’Quelle Golden. History teacher Ericka Hansen is the Close Up adviser.

Students get ‘close up’ with democracy

Students enrolled in the St. Croix
Central High School Close Up orga-
nization recently returned from the na-
tion’s capital where they attended the
Close Up Washington flagship pro-
gram. The group of 11 traveled Nov.
13-19 and joined with other Close Up
high school chapters from across the
country to learn about the American
democratic process.

Central High School history teacher

and Close Up advisor Ericka Hansen
took 10 students on the annual trip,
which gives high school students and
educators an inside look at their democ-
racy in action. Using the nation’s capital
as their living classroom, program par-
ticipants get a “close up” view of gov-
ernment processes and places that make
the district unique and functional.
Students visited the Washington
Monument, Martin Luther King Me-

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014511

morial, the Smithsonian, U.S. Capi-
tol, Arlington National Cemetery, the
White House and more. Students also
participated in political discussions
and met with members of Congress.
The program provided social activities
for the students in the evening.
Founded in 1971, the Close Up orga-
nization has provided more than 825,000
students with educational tours about
government and the political processes.

“Where We “Express “Your Gmation “Ghrough Flowers.

www.flowers.vi ¢ (340) 774-9370
Frenchtown Plaza © across from the Frenchtown Post Office

All major credit cards accepted and worldwide deliveries
