were told that they would receive no
medicine at all. The researchers at-
tempted to assess the combined impact
of many different kinds of trials using
meta-analysis, a statistical technique for
extracting information from studies that
are not statistically significant by them-
selves. Their article, “Is the Placebo Pow-
erless? An Analysis of Clinical Trials
Comparing Placebo with No Treat-
ment,” published in The New England
Journal of Medicine, was a long-overdue
response to Beecher’s 1955 paper.

In almost every case, the researchers re-
ported, there was essentially no difference
between the placebo group and the openly
untreated group. There were particular ex-
ceptions in studies of pain, where there
was a slight but measurable placebo effect.
Since we are physiologically capable of
manufacturing our own painkillers—en-
dorphins—the result may not have been
surprising. Expectations and suggestion
clearly influence behavior, and when we
expect to receive medicine our bodies
often begin to prepare for it. (As the evo-
lutionary biologist Robert Trivers recently
pointed out, in “The Folly of Fools,” his
book about the historical necessity of de-
ceit, what the brain expects to happen in
the near future affects its physiological
state. Trivers’s theory would explain a fact
that has often baffled scientists: the pla-
cebo effect doesn’t appear to work with
Alzheimer’s patients. Trivers suggests that
this is because most people who have Al-
zheimer’s disease are unable to anticipate
the future and are therefore unable to pre-
pare for it.)

The Danish researchers repeated the
study in 2004, and again last year, incor-
porating new data each time. The re-
sults and their conclusions remained
the same. “We found little evidence in
general that placebos had powerful clin-
ical effects,” Hrdbjartsson wrote. “Out-
side the setting of clinical trials, there is
no justification for the use of placebos.”

Kaptchuk has great respect for Hré-
bjartsson, yet he is wary of relying on
meta-analyses, and he believes that an
honest interaction between a doctor and
a patient can significantly alter the out-
come of treatment. That was the point of
his study of irritable-bowel syndrome, in
which some subjects were told that they
would not be treated. I.B.S., a chronic
gastrointestinal disorder, is one of the
most common reasons that people seek

medical care. Effective long-term thera-
pies have proved elusive. In Kaptchuk’s
study, eighty patients were randomly di-
vided into two groups. Patients in the first
group received a placebo pill twice a day;
those in the second received nothing. Be-
fore the study began, both groups were
told that placebos were “inert or inactive
pills, like sugar pills, without any medica-
tion in them.” They were also informed
that placebos have been shown in “rigor-
ous clinical testing to produce significant
mind-body self-healing processes.” Pa-
tients who received the openly distributed
placebo scored far better on standard as-
sessments of their condition than those
who received nothing. There were also
statistically significant differences in the
severity of symptoms.

Although a group of eighty patients is
too small to draw definitive conclusions,
honesty seemed to work. “Asbjorn’s stuff
is a constant intellectual challenge,” Kapt-
chuk wrote in an e-mail. “His meta-anal-
yses are tops. Great methods, very careful.
Clear.” Yet Kaptchuk also pointed out
that placebos are not the only interven-
tions that can cause complicated reac-
tions. Drugs do, too. Opiods, for exam-
ple, increase pain in about ten per cent of
those who take them. Antibiotics don’t al-
ways work, and neither does cortisone, a
powerful steroid used each year by mil-
lions of people. Meta-analyses are useful
to help understand large amounts of data
from different trials. But statistical results
that combine information from a
variety of medical centers, with
different kinds of patients, often
in different countries, adminis-
tered under different conditions,
cannot be uniform and therefore
cannot be conclusive.

Hrébjartsson and Kaptchuk
are united on at least one front.
Like Wayne Jonas, they agree
that the medical system needs to
change. “You have to put this into
the context of the society in which
you live,” Hrébjartsson told me. “Because
I think this may be as much a matter of
philosophy as of science. There is an anti-
technological, anti-science feeling in the
West. We constantly see frustration with
the limits of medicine. The placebo can be
seen in some sense as a logical avenue for
those frustrations. Everyone wants a sim-
ple, pain-free solution. But I wonder if that
approach isn’t just the mirror image of the

pharmacological way of handling illness—
that there is a pill for every disease.

“The entire idea of a placebo is very
‘soapy, ” Hrébjartsson continued. “It slips
away whenever you try to find a border.”

That has always been true. After all, for
many people a placebo is just a sugar pill.
For others, the definition includes the en-
tire ritual of treatment, the complete inter-
action between doctor and patient. In-
creased attention has mostly raised new
questions: What are the physical and psy-
chological mechanisms that produce pla-
cebo effects? What are the conditions they
most easily affect? And can we actually
identify people who respond to placebos?
Scientists now have bits of answers to some
of those questions, but to reach their goal,
and introduce placebos into clinical prac-
tice, they will need to answer all of them.

T Kaptchuk gets a great deal of
pleasure from focussing on what
other people reject. Indifference seems to
motivate him. “I was raised in a crazy
home, and it prepared me to accept any
proposition,” he said. That, he once told
me, is why he was so active in the sixties:
“Tt was a time when the underpinnings of
the universe were questioned.” Both of
Kaptchuk’s parents, who were Poles, sur-
vived the Holocaust. “That really defines
a lot of what I do. My father was a Red,
so I have a tendency to get pleasure from
subversiveness.”

A particularly radical son of the six-
ties, Kaptchuk was one of the
founders of the Columbia Uni-
versity chapter of Students for
a Democratic Society, in 1965,
but the organization was soon
dominated by a faction that be-
came the Weather Under-
ground. That was too radical
even for Kaptchuk. He fled to
the West Coast. “I was hanging
out with the San Francisco Red
Guards and reading Mao, trying
to get away from U.S. imperial-
ism,” he said. “I was militant and crazy.
But at some point I said, Ted, this is not
being human.”

Kaptchuk decided to pursue studies in
Chinese philosophy and medicine at the
source. Beijing had yet to open its bor-
ders to Americans, but Kaptchuk hoped
that his revolutionary bona fides would
prompt the leadership to make an excep-
tion. “My request to study there was de-

THE NEW YORKER, DECEMBER 12, 201 35

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029930
