What Are the Different Types of
Resolutions with SEC?

Civil Injunctive Actions and Remedies

In a civil injunctive action, SEC seeks a court order
compelling the defendant to obey the Jaw in the future.
Violating such an order can result in civil or criminal con-
tempt proceedings. Civil contempt sanctions, brought by
SEC, are remedial rather than punitive in nature and serve
one of two purposes: to compensate the party injured as a
result of the violation of the injunction or force compliance
with the terms of the injunction.

Where a defendant has profited from a violation of
law, SEC can obtain the equitable relief of disgorgement
of ill-gotten gains and pre-judgment interest and can also
obtain civil money penalties pursuant to Sections 21(d)(3)
and 32(c) of the Exchange Act. SEC may also seek ancillary
relief (such as an accounting from a defendant). Pursuant
to Section 21(d)(5), SEC also may seek, and any federal
court may grant, any other equitable relief that may be
appropriate or necessary for the benefit of investors, such
as enhanced remedial measures or the retention of an inde-

pendent compliance consultant or monitor.

Civil Administrative Actions and Remedies

SEC has the ability to institute various types of admin-
istrative proceedings against a person or an entity that it
believes has violated the law. This type of enforcement action
is brought by SEC’s Enforcement Division and is litigated
before an SEC administrative law judge (ALJ). The AL]’s
decision is subject to appeal directly to the Securities and
Exchange Commission itself, and the Commission’s decision
is in turn subject to review by a US. Court of Appeals.

Administrative proceedings provide for a variety of
relief. For regulated persons and entities, such as broker-
dealers and investment advisers and persons associated with
them, sanctions include censure, limitation on activities,
suspension of up to twelve months, and bar from associa-
tion or revocation of registration. For professionals such as

attorneys and accountants, SEC can order in Rule 102(e)

Resolutions

proceedings that the professional be censured, suspended,
or barred from practicing before SEC. SEC staff can seek
an order from an administrative law judge requiring the
respondent to cease and desist from any current or future
violations of the securities laws. In addition, SEC can obtain
disgorgement, pre-judgment interest, and civil money pen-
alties in administrative proceedings under Section 21B
of the Exchange Act, and also can obtain other equitable
relief, such as enhanced remedial measures or the retention

of an independent compliance consultant or monitor.

Deferred Prosecution Agreements

A deferred prosecution agreement is a written agree-
ment between SEC and a potential cooperating individual
or company in which SEC agrees to forego an enforcement
action against the individual or company if the individual
or company agrees to, among other things: (1) cooper-
ate truthfully and fully in SEC’s investigation and related
enforcement actions; (2) enter into a long-term tolling
agreement; (3) comply with express prohibitions and/
or undertakings during a period of deferred prosecution;
and (4) under certain circumstances, agree either to admit
or not to contest underlying facts that SEC could assert
to establish a violation of the federal securities laws. If the
agreement is violated during the period of deferred prosecu-
tion, SEC staff may recommend an enforcement action to
the Commission against the individual or company for the
original misconduct as well as any additional misconduct.
Furthermore, if the Commission authorizes the enforce-
ment action, SEC staff may use any factual admissions
made by the cooperating individual or company in support
of a motion for summary judgment, while maintaining the
ability to bring an enforcement action for any additional

misconduct at a later date.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022578

