take Trump’s offer too seriously. But Thiel, who gave a speech supporting Trump at the
Republican Convention in Cleveland, reported back that, even having been forewarned, he
absolutely was certain of Trump’s sincerity when he said they’d be friends for life—only
never to basically hear from him again or have his calls returned. Still, power provides its
own excuses for social lapses. Other aspects of the Trump character were more
problematic.

Almost all the professionals who were now set to join him were coming face to face
with the fact that it appeared he knew nothing. There was simply no subject, other than
perhaps building construction, that he had substantially mastered. Everything with him
was off the cuff. Whatever he knew he seemed to have learned an hour before—and that
was mostly half-baked. But each member of the new Trump team was convincing him- or
herself otherwise—because what did they know, the man had been elected president. He
offered something, obviously. Indeed, while everybody in his rich-guy social circle knew
about his wide-ranging ignorance—Trump, the businessman, could not even read a
balance sheet, and Trump, who had campaigned on his deal-making skills, was, with his
inattention to details, a terrible negotiator—they yet found him somehow instinctive. That
was the word. He was a force of personality. He could make you believe.

“Is Trump a good person, an intelligent person, a capable person?” asked Sam
Nunberg, Trump’s longtime political aide. “I don’t even know. But I know he’s a star.”

Trying to explain Trump’s virtues and his attraction, Piers Morgan—the British
newspaper man and ill-fated CNN anchor who had appeared on Celebrity Apprentice and
stayed a loyal Trump friend—said it was all in Trump’s book The Art of the Deal.
Everything that made him Trump and that defined his savvy, energy, and charisma was
there. If you wanted to know Trump, just read the book. But Trump had not written 7he
Art of the Deal. His co-writer, Tony Schwartz, insisted that he had hardly contributed to it
and might not even have read all of it. And that was perhaps the point. Trump was not a
writer, he was a character—a protagonist and hero.

A pro wrestling fan who became a World Wrestling Entertainment supporter and
personality (inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame), Trump lived, like Hulk Hogan, as a
real-life fictional character. To the amusement of his friends, and unease of many of the
people now preparing to work for him at the highest levels of the federal government,
Trump often spoke of himself in the third person. Trump did this. The Trumpster did that.
So powerful was this persona, or role, that he seemed reluctant, or unable, to give it up in
favor of being president—or presidential.

However difficult he was, many of those now around him tried to justify his behavior
—tried to find an explanation for his success in it, to understand it as an advantage, not a
limitation. For Steve Bannon, Trump’s unique political virtue was as an alpha male,
maybe the last of the alpha males. A 1950s man, a Rat Pack type, a character out of Mad
Men.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019900
