weaponry and intelligence — Defense Minister Ehud Barak told CNN on Monday, “I should tell you honestly
that this administration under President Obama is doing in regard to our security more than anything that I can
remember in the past.”

While Romney had time for a $50,000-a-plate breakfast with American Jewish donors in Jerusalem, with
Adelson at his elbow, he did not have two hours to go to Ramallah, the seat of the Palestinian Authority, to meet
with its president, Mahmoud Abbas, or to share publicly any ideas on how he would advance the peace process.
He did have time, though, to point out to his Jewish hosts that Israelis are clearly more culturally entrepreneurial
than Palestinians. Israel today is an amazing beehive of innovation — thanks, in part, to an influx of Russian
brainpower, massive U.S. aid and smart policies. It’s something Jews should be proud of. But had Romney gone
to Ramallah he would have seen a Palestinian beehive of entrepreneurship, too, albeit small, but not bad for a
people living under occupation. Palestinian business talent also built the Persian Gulf states. In short, Romney
didn’t know what he was talking about.

On peace, the Palestinians’ diplomacy has been a fractured mess, and I still don’t know if they can be a partner
for a secure two-state deal with even the most liberal Israeli government. But I do know this: It is in Israel’s
overwhelming interest to test, test and have the U.S. keep testing creative ideas for a two-state solution. That is
what a real U.S. friend would promise to do. Otherwise, Israel could be doomed to become a kind of apartheid
South Africa.

And here is what I also know: The three U.S. statesmen who have done the most to make Israel more secure and
accepted in the region all told blunt truths to every Israeli or Arab leader: Jimmy Carter, who helped forge a
lasting peace between Israel and Egypt; Henry Kissinger, who built the post-1973 war disengagement
agreements with Syria, Israel and Egypt; and James Baker, who engineered the Madrid peace conference. All of
them knew that to make progress in this region you have to get in the face of both sides. They both need the
excuse at times that “the Americans made me do it,” because their own politics are too knotted to move on their
own.

So how about all you U.S. politicians — Republicans and Democrats — stop feeding off this conflict for
political gain. Stop using this conflict as a backdrop for campaign photo-ops and fund-raisers. Stop making
things even worse by telling the most hard-line Israelis everything that they want to hear, just to grovel for
Jewish votes and money, while blatantly ignoring the other side. There are real lives at stake out there. If you’re
not going to do something constructive, stay away. They can make enough trouble for themselves on their own.

Sent from my iPad

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031707
