JAMES PATTERSON

Seckel acquaintances, I kept hearing variations on a scheme Mrs.
Pearce Williams believed he perpetrated against her late hus-
band, the man Seckel said was his mentor. Seckel took books
and promised money, or he took money and promised a book;
but somehow, the promised party lost money.”

“He was charming, erudite, humorous,” one of Seckel’s marks
told the reporter. “I lent him $75,000. When the time came to
pay it back he didn’t want to do it.”

Oppenheimer found several people whom Seckel had stiffed
and uncovered dozens of lawsuits he’d been involved in. In 2007,
Seckel settled a libel lawsuit against a man who'd edited his Wiki-
pedia page. Years later, Oppenheimer spoke with Seckel’s lawyer,

Nicholas Hornberger.

It was an odd thing, Epste:
PhD who, on closer inspec
But the Mindshift confer
in the Virgin Islands dix
Mann was there, along wit
coauthored books with St
expert on artificial intelli
attended the conference, s:
about it.
“We had scientific disc:
he said vaguely.
When Mark Oppenheir
Seckel, Sussman “got testy”

“I have had some dealir

“Hornberger confirmed that he'd reached a settlement for the
case, a favorable one,” the journalist wrote. “Hornberger added
that Seckel has still not paid him for his services.”

He also interviewed Seckel’s wife, Isabel Maxwell. 7

Aland Isabel met on a blind date and married in Malibu in or ; a
“around” 2007 (“I don’t keep the dates in my head,” Seckel
explained). A few years later, they moved to the South of France,
where Seckel continued to trade in rare books and papers. While ©
living in France, he was sued by a Virgin Islands company that 4
accused him and Isabel of fraudulently attempting to sell rare i
books and a seventeenth-century portrait of Isaac Newton.

Seckel had also been trying to sell papers belonging to Isa- : The further I can keep
bel’s father. 3 ’ better,” said Ballet Palm Beac

Isabel is Ghislaine Maxwell's sister and the daughter of Rob- : q But in 2012, Bpsicin halil

4 Jeff's Once again, three Nobe

Stephen Hawking was also th
HWwenty-one physicists— from

step 242:

want to say what it’s abo
it, okay?”

ee
>,

SCR

Today, Epstein’s websites—
q JeffreyEpsteinScience.com—
long since expired. Several r
7 tributions, including New Yc
7 Palm Beach, announced tha

4

gifts.

ert Maxwell.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022131
