1.12 Key Claims of the Book 15

e inter-reflecting networks modeling self and others, reflecting a “mirrorhouse” design
pattern

10. Given the strengths and weaknesses of current and near-future digital computers,

a. A (loosely) neural-symbolic network is a good representation for directly storing many
kinds of memory, and interfacing between those that it doesn’t store directly;

b. Uncertain logic is a good way to handle declarative knowledge. To deal with the prob-
lems facing a human-level AGI, an uncertain logic must integrate imprecise probability
and fuzziness with a broad scope of logical constructs. PLN is one good realization.

c. Programs are a good way to represent procedures (both cognitive and physical-action,
but perhaps not including low-level motor-control procedures).

d. Evolutionary program learning is a good way to handle difficult program learning prob-
lems. Probabilistic learning on normalized programs is one effective approach to evolu-
tionary program learning. MOSES is one good realization of this approach.

e. Multistart hill-climbing, with a strong Occam prior, is a good way to handle relatively
straightforward program learning problems.

f. Activation spreading and Hebbian learning comprise a reasonable way to handle atten-
tional knowledge (though other approaches, with greater overhead cost, may provide
better accuracy and may be appropriate in some situations).

e Artificial economics is an effective approach to activation spreading and Hebbian
learning in the context of neural-symbolic networks;

e ECAN is one good realization of artificial economics;

e A good trade-off between comprehensiveness and efficiency is to focus on two kinds
of attention: processor attention (represented in CogPrime by ShortTermImpor-
tance) and memory attention (represented in CogPrime by LongTermImportance).

g. Simulation is a good way to handle episodic knowledge (remembered and imagined).
Running an internal world simulation engine is an effective way to handle simulation.

h. Hybridization of one’s integrative neural-symbolic system with a spatiotemporally hier-
archical deep learning system is an effective way to handle representation and learning
of low-level sensorimotor knowledge. DeSTIN is one example of a deep learning system
of this nature that can be effective in this context.

i. One effective way to handle goals is to represent them declaratively, and allocate atten-
tion among them economically. CogPrime’s PLN/ECAN based framework for handling
intentional knowledge is one good realization.

11. It is important for an intelligent system to have some way of recognizing large-scale pat-
terns in itself, and then embodying these patterns as new, localized knowledge items in
its memory. Given the use of a neural-symbolic network for knowledge representation, a
graph-mining based “map formation” heuristic is one good way to do this.

12. Occam’s Razor: Intelligence is closely tied to the creation of procedures that achieve goals
in environments in the simplest possible way. Each of an AGI system’s cognitive algorithms
should embody a simplicity bias in some explicit or implicit form.

13. An AGI system, if supplied with a commonsensically ethical goal system and an intentional
component based on rigorous uncertain inference, should be able to reliably achieve a much
higher level of commonsensically ethical behavior than any human being.

14. Once sufficiently advanced, an AGI system with a logic-based declarative knowledge ap-
proach and a program-learning-based procedural knowledge approach should be able to

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012931
