THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA

PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)

Bernard Evans

http://www.bernardevans.co.uk/artNews.php?nild=2728

The Art Market: a house party 2010-Oct-11

By Georgina Adam www.google.co.uk

“Frieze week” kicks off this week in London, drawing the cream of the art world to Britain’s capital.
It is centred of course on the fair that started it all (Frieze opens to the public in Regent’s Park on
Thursday), but a host of satellite events are also on offer. One of the more intriguing is taking place
just down the road from the fair, at 2 Cornwall Terrace, part of an enormously expensive real estate
project being developed and sold.

In what appears to be a sophisticated way of selling both art and the property, the 18th-century
mansion is being used as a temporary venue for an exhibition entitled The House of the Nobleman,
October 15-20. The format is hybrid, both commercial and non-commercial, with 68 works on show,
half of them loans from collectors — one is David Roberts, the rest are secret — the other half consisting
of works of art for sale.

The House of the Nobleman is curated by the artist Wolfe von Lenkiewicz, who has teamed up with a
young Russian curator, Victoria Golembiovskaya. It is backed by Mirax, a Russian real estate company
that has a “significant but minority” stake in the Cromwell Terrace complex. Mirax belongs to a
Russian billionaire, Sergei Polonsky, but Mirax has been troubled since the financial recession and has
a reported $120m in debt; the firm did not respond to a request for comment. The eight houses in the
Cromwell Terrace complex are priced between £29m and £60m.

Various dealers, from the UK and elsewhere, are contributing works of art to the show; they range
from two paintings by Poussin to Picasso’s “Buste d’Homme a la Pipe” (1969), priced at £3m. Banksy,
Richter, Klein, Rodin, Cézanne and Warhol are the unlikely bedfellows in the show, which includes two
works by Von Lenkiewicz himself (at £60,000 and £50,000) and about 22 consigned by Charles Saatchi.
While entry is free, visitors must register for admission (www.cornwallterrace.co.uk); they will be
taken around in groups of 50, according to the curators.

22

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028302
