few restraints about the way he deals with his adversaries. He could act
unilaterally and shut down the investigation, forcing a legal test likely
before the Supreme Court. He could order the Attorney General—even
given his prior recusal—to repeal the Special Counsel regulations and
close down the investigation, and fire him if he refused. Or he could fire
Rosenstein and seek someone else to oversee the investigation in ways
more to his liking. The Mueller team continues to believe it is protected
by political realities—the President can not know how Congress might
respond, and it might well respond with impeachment. At the same
time, it has tried to game out the uncharted legal areas of exactly what
happens to all of its work product and to the sitting grand juries if the
investigation is in fact shut down or its mission altered.

Likewise, people around the President—embracing a
constitutional face-off as militantly as they maintain the Mueller
investigation is—say this unknown legal area that might be
advantageous to the President. The delays and disruption that result as
courts sort out the ramifications of the President's actions might well be
the President's legal friend—the reason some in the White House have
been urging the President to end the investigation, whatever the
political fallout.

The President's constitutional pardon powers appear to be some
of the most troubling and threatening issues for the Special Counsel. The
Counsel's office believes the President will use his pardon power as an
instrument to undermine the investigation.

According to present and former White House advisors, the
President's recent spate of pardons are in part his way of taunting the
Special Counsel. The White House, according to these sources, is aware
that the Special Counsel has concluded the President's pardon power is
near absolute: the President can certainly pardon himself, and others
involved in the investigation.

Most immediately, the Special Counsel's office believes that the
President will pardon Michael Flynn, perhaps in the coming weeks. The
question for the Mueller team is if it can build an exception to the
President's pardon authority. It’s view here falls back on the
egregiousness of the President's own behavior: there is a level of
obstruction of justice that all reasonable men might know when they
see it. If you pardon someone to get yourself off the hook, that's
obstruction, and subverting the rule of law and the constitution you've
pledged to uphold.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030252
