Epstein summons in the next person cooling his heels in the ante-
room. It’s a young man named Brock Pierce, a former child actor, and
dotcom high flyer—a principle in a gaming company called DEN, a
notorious dotcom burnout, with its own sex scandal—who is now a leading
investor in Bitcoin. He describe himself as the “the most active investor in
the field.”

And, indeed, is the first clear explanation I actually get about Bitcoin.
It is so good that Epstein stops him and checks to see if his next appointment
is here. And seconds later, Larry Summers, the former treasury secretary and
President of Harvard, enters the dining room. Summers, off Diet Coke, digs
deep into the Sheikh’s chocolates, focuses in on the Bitcoin investor.

“Okay,” he says, after listening for a bit, “I have opportunities here.
But an additional feature of my decision problem roughly speaking is that
the worst that could happen to you is that you could lose all the money you
put into it. Whereas, I could go—I mean I don’t look that great now—but I
could go from being seen as a figure of some probity and some intelligence
to being a figure of much less intelligence and much less probity...”

“Well,” says Pierce in some dramatic understatement, “you are going
to have some low quality characters playing early in the space...”

That evening, there is a small cocktail party, which includes the
former Prime Minister of Australian, Kevin Rudd, and Thorbjern Jaglandthe
head of the Noble Peace Prize Committee, who offers an affable, but general
scathing, critique of U.S. diplomacy (and a brief defense of Obama’s Peace
Prize award) and to whom Epstein offers a ride back to Europe on his jet.

The next morning, it’s Ehud Barack, the former Israeli Prime Minister
and Israel, for breakfast. Barack is, over his omelet, able to defend both
Obama and Putin. Then Kathy Ruemmler, who has just left her job as White
House Counsel joins. She is already in the mix as a possible next attorney
general, but, in fact, will withdraw from consideration in part to work with
Epstein. [TK Ruemmler quotes... ]

Larry Summers wife, Elisa New, drops by. She teaches American
poetry at Harvard and is putting together a proposal for a series on poetry
that WGBH in Boston may produce and Epstein is advising on where she
might go for added support (he also makes mince meat of her budget).

There follows the former head of the UN Security Council, Hardeep
Purie, and then head of the central bank of Kazakhstan, Kairat Kelimbetov.

Then Nathan Myhrvold the former chief technology office at
Microsoft. Then Martin Nowak a Professor of Biology and Mathematics and
Director of the Program for Evolutionary Dynamics at Harvard, the institute
that Epstein has funded with $30 million. Part of Nowak’s research has to do

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022752
