Eye on the Market | april 9, 2012 J.P Morgan

Q&A on the USA, with a watchful eye on the risk of giant man-eating plants; Spain

Now that P/E multiples have risen off the bottom, what’s the outlook for P/E multiples and earnings from here?

The return on the S&P this year has been a function of P/E multiples rising (from 11.3x to 12.9x), a big part of which has been
Apple (3% of the S&P index, 15% of S&P’s YTD returns). As shown below, earnings revisions have been negative for 2012,
but analysts are still optimistic about 2013. According to Morgan Stanley, analysts are forecasting the highest percentage of
companies posting 2013 margin expansion since 1970, and by a very wide margin. In our view, it will be difficult for multiples
to rise further unless earnings outperform expectations, particularly if Europe’s structural problems take center stage again.

Revisions to consensus EPS by quarter Win, Place and Show: The only country | can
a 12/30/2011 = 100 The problem of Spain find that's in worse
AQE +1% shape than Spain is:
400 Number of dwellings to population Greece
Non-financial corporate debt to GDP Ireland
99 3QE -1% Corporate sector debt to cash flow Portugal
FY12 -1%| Construction sector debt/assets None
98 2QE -2% | Banking sector branches per 1,000 people None
Reliance on foreign capital (Net Int. Inv. Pos.) Ireland, Portugal
97 Real estate as % of household assets None
1QE -3% | Housing overhang (as per CEPS) Ireland
96 Commercial RE exposure % of bank assets None
12/30/2011 01/31/2012 02/29/2012 03/28/2012 Encumbered banking system assets, % Greece
Source: FactSet. World Bank labor rigidity, Europe None
The place that worries me the most: Spain. It ranks at or |!ntra-European real effective exchange rate Italy
close to the bottom in a lot of categories (see table), and |Shadow economy, % of GDP, OECD Italy, Greece
its growth outlook is poor. Historically, this kind of Unemployment rate None
thing has not ended well. Spain has defaulted 13 times Production time per unit Italy

since 1500 AD; it’s probably going to take a lot of Reliance on ECB to finance sovereign debt None

bilateral aid and ECB financing to prevent another one. _| Bank lending to HH/NFC, last 12 months None
. HH/NFC = households and non-financial corporations

Michael Cembalest Sources: IMF, OECD, EU, World Bank, CEPS

Chief Investment Officer

Sources
“States of Bankruptcy, Part I: The Coming State Pensions Crisis”, Jot Economic Committee Republicans, Representative
Kevin Brady and Senator Jim DeMint, December 8, 2011

“The Trillion Dollar Gap, Underfunded State Retirement Systems and the Roads to Reform”, Pew Center, February 2010
“Fiscal Policy in a Depressed Economy”, DeLong (Berkeley) and Summers (Harvard), March 20, 2012

Moody’s US Municipal Bond Defaults and Recoveries, 1970-2011

IMF Country Report 11/216. “Spain: Selected Issues”, July 2011

The material contained herein is intended as a general market commentary. Opinions expressed herein are those of Michael Cembalest and may differ from those of other J.P.
Morgan employees and affiliates. This information in no way constitutes J.P. Morgan research and should not be treated as such. Further, the views expressed herein may
differ from that contained in J.P. Morgan research reports. The above summary/prices/quotes/statistics have been obtained from sources deemed to be reliable, but we do not
guarantee their accuracy or completeness, any yield referenced is indicative and subject to change. Past performance is not a guarantee of future results. References to the
performance or character of our portfolios generally refer to our Balanced Model Portfolios constructed by J.P. Morgan. It is a proxy for client performance and may not
represent actual transactions or investments in client accounts. The model portfolio can be implemented across brokerage or managed accounts depending on the unique
objectives of each client and is serviced through distinct legal entities licensed for specific activities. Bank, trust and investment management services are provided by JP
Morgan Chase Bank, N.A, and its affiliates. Securities are offered through J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (JPMS), Member NYSE, FINRA and SIPC, and its affiliates globally as
local legislation permits. Securities products purchased or sold through JPMS are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC); are not deposits or
other obligations of its bank or thrift affiliates and are not guaranteed by its bank or thrift affiliates; and are subject to investment risks, including possible loss of the principal
invested. Not all investment ideas referenced are suitable for all investors. Speak with your J.P. Morgan Representative concerning your personal situation. This material is not
intended as an offer or solicitation for the purchase or sale of any financial instrument. Private Investments may engage in leveraging and other speculative practices that may
increase the risk of investment loss, can be highly illiquid, are not required to provide periodic pricing or valuations to investors and may involve complex tax structures and
delays in distributing important tax information. Typically such investment ideas can only be offered to suitable investors through a confidential offering memorandum which
fully describes all terms, conditions, and risks.

IRS Circular 230 Disclosure: JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its affiliates do not provide tax advice. Accordingly, any discussion of U.S. tax matters contained herein (including
any attachments) is not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, in connection with the promotion, marketing or recommendation by anyone unaffiliated with
JPMorgan Chase & Co. of any of the matters addressed herein or for the purpose of avoiding U.S. tax-related penalties. Note that J.P. Morgan is not a licensed insurance
provider.

© 2012 JPMorgan Chase & Co; All rights reserved

5

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025246
