Some people experience God speaking
directly to them in an easy relationship.
Others do not.

As aresult of my involvement
with the Templeton group, I decided to
carry out some quantitative and
experimental work to see whether we
could figure out the differences between
those who found it easy to do this work,
and those for whom it was difficult. That
work suggests that there is a
psychological capacity that makes the
process of knowing this kind of God
easier, though its absence does not
prevent religious experience, and its
presence does not predict it. It is the
capacity for absorption, which is at the
heart of imagination. Absorption is the
capacity to focus one’s attention on a
non-instrumental (and often internal)
object while disattending to everyday
exterior surrounds. Absorption is related
to hypnosis and dissociation, but not
identical to either. All of us go into light
absorption states when we settle into a
book and let the story carry us away.
There are no known physiological
markers of an absorption state, but as the
absorption grows deeper, the person
becomes more difficult to distract, and
his sense of time and agency begins to
shift. He lives within his imagination
more, whether that be simple
mindfulness or elaborate fantasy, and he
feels that the experience happens to him,
that he is a bystander to his own
awareness, more himself than ever
before, or perhaps absent, but in any
case different. And as the absorption
grows deeper, people often experience
more imagery and more sensory
phenomena, sometimes with
hallucinatory vividness. Scholars do not
discuss training in absorption, although
researchers of hypnosis and dissociation

117

Page

are clear that some kind of practice
effects can be seen. °

Conclusion

Prayer is basically training in
absorption, at least the kind of prayer in
which the person praying focuses
inwardly and disattends to the everyday
world in order to engage with God. It
would be hard to over-estimate the
importance placed on prayer and prayer
experience in a church like this and
indeed, in Christian America today.
Many of the best-selling Christian books
are books on prayer technique, and they
sell in the millions. Such books often
begin by presenting the concrete sensory
experience of God described in the
Hebrew Bible as the everyday
relationship for which the ordinary
believer should strive. In these manuals,
the act of praying is understood as a skill
that has to be deliberately learned. I
discovered that these evangelical
congregants assumed that prayer was a
skill which had to be taught, that it was
hard, that not everyone was good at it,
and that those who were naturally good
and well trained would experience
changes associated with a more richly
developed inner world. Their mental
images would seem sharper; they would
be more likely to report unusual sensory
experiences. They would be more able,
in short, to experience God. The more
quantitative work—done in
collaboration with Howard Nusbaum
and Ron Thisted--suggests that those
who have a proclivity for absorption and
who trained that proclivity through
prayer are indeed more able to
accomplish the demanding learning that
this concept of God sets out.* They are
more able to identify God’s presence in
their mind. They are more likely to
experience God as an invisible

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021363
