12 THe fbi, threatend many statutes if 1 would not plead guilty to astate crime. they suggested that a cell
phone was a means of interstae commerce ( similar to perverts who troll the internet , in searhc of underage
girs] , and in each and every one of those cases the govt is required to confirm , and they do,that the person
KNEW or that the person on the other end of the computer was underage. . all stings hve the police stinger ask
dont you know that iam 14, 13 etc. there was never any such conversation with anyone.

13. the govt said that traveling to my homeof 15 year in florida, ccould be considered traveling for thepurpsoe
of underage sex. never before anyone not crossing state lines with a person , charged with a crimge for gong
home

14. the gov said that they would not bring an mdictment if i plead guilty to being a pimp.( a crime m florida
that REQUIRES the pimpt to earh money off the the girls , (regster as a sex offender ) and pay a list of girls
whose names they would provide me only AFTER the fact. and AFTER i was in jail. I would have to agree
NOT to contest any claim by anyone they put on the list . when I attempted to do so , asinever met some of
the people on the list. I retved a letter statng that any attempt to question ther story would result in a breech of
my agreeemnt.

15. If I had tto do it over I hope i would have shown much better judgement as many of the girls came from

underprivleged familys and 1 was unaware of the potential for harm.
tmz has said she was a sex slave. . she has now admited she lied about her age. she was
never 15. she has changed th story on my wikipieia page , but no press statment. she said that clnton was on
the island, not true, she said ghilsane flew him in a black helipcopter, I did not have a black heli and she
never flew him, she said that al gore and wife were on the isalnd never happened, she has accused a prime
mmisnter a senator aprinve. ascemtist, alan dershowitz. amany in his seventies with his wife n
attendance. sex ona plane with secret service and dimplanic protection people looking the other way. . she
had an arrest warmat for her as she stole money ftom the restaurnat at which she worked, she had before made
clainds of sexual assualts but the prosecutro said she had no creidbility | emiails , suggst
adding alan dershowitz to her complaint. J) emails suggestlil might have comminted pergury
she has said that the house had many photos of underage girls , arecent press realease clearly shows
another lie.

17, the press has labled me a pedophile a disgusting term for men atracted to pre pubcesnet girsl . these
girls worked in a strip club. . Not one person ever testified that they were asked to bring underage girls
fact the opposite. all said they were told on one under 18. fbi foia request . confirms

in

2

wealth was not used as an advantage. the local police chief said this case was bigger than rush limbaugh, . no
one had ever faced a federal charge for having prostituies in their own house. no violence coercion. etc

191 the police released to the press, the raw statements ofthe girls. not one was ever questioned by opposing
counsel.

please note
The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of
JEE
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited
and may be unlawful. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by

return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030246
