14. THE STRUCTURE OF KUE AND THE GENERAL PARTNER

The following information is a summary of the principal terms of the organizational documents of KUE and
the General Partner. The information below is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amended and
Restated Limited Partnership Agreement of KUE and the organizational documents of the General
Partner, including the Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association of the General
Partner and the Agreement Among Members of the General Partner (the “Organizational Documents”),
copies of which have been provided or are available upon request. in the event of any inconsistency
between the terms herein and the terms of the Organizational Documents, the Organizational Documents
shall control.

14.1. KUE

KUE is constituted as a Cayman islands exempted limited partnership under the Exempted Limited
Partnership Law (2003 Revision) (the “ELP Law’). A Cayman Islands exempted limited partnership is
constituted by the signing of the relevant partnership agreement and its registration with the Registrar of
Exempted Limited Partnerships in the Cayman Islands.

Notwithstanding registration, an exempted limited partnership is not a separate legal person distinct from
its partners. Under Cayman Islands law, any property of the exempted limited partnership shall be held or
deemed to be held by the general partner, and if more than one then by the general partners jointly upon
trust, as an asset of the partnership in accordance with the terms of the partnership agreement. Similarly,
the general partner for and on behalf of the partnership incurs the debts or obligations of the exempted
limited partnership. Registration under the ELP Law eniails that the partnership becomes subject to, and
the limited partners therein are afforded the limited liability and other benefits of the ELP Law.

The business of an exempted limited partnership will be conducted by its general partner(s) who will be
liable for all debts and obligations of the exempted limited partnership to the extent the partnership has
insufficient assets. As a general matter, a limited partner of an exempted limited partnership will not be
liable for the debts and obligations of the exempied limited partnership save (i) as expressed in the
partnership agreement, (ii) if such limited partner becomes involved in the conduct of the partnership's
business or (iii) if such limited partner is obliged pursuant to Section 14(1) of the ELP Law to return a
distribution made to it where the exempted limited partnership is insolvent,

The Limited Partnership Agreement of KUE limits the liability and reduces the fiduciary duties of the
General Partner to the Limited Partners of KUE (the Limited Partners,” and, together with the General
Partner, the “Partners”) to the full extent of applicable law. The Limited Partnership Agreement also
restricts the remedies available to the Limited Partners for actions that might otherwise constitute a
breach of the General Partner's fiduciary duties owed to the Limited Partners. By purchasing Units,
Investors are treated as having consented to various actions contemplated in the Limited Partnership
Agreement and conflicts of interest that might otherwise be considered a breach of fiduciary or other
duties under applicable Cayman law.

14.2. The General Partner

The General Partner is incorporated in the Cayman Islands as an exempted company with limited liability
under the Companies Law (2004 Revision) (the “Companies Law’), The Memorandum and Articles of
Association comprise the constitution of General Partner. The principal business purpose of the General
Partner is to act as the general partner of KUE, tc own interests in KUE and to engage in activities related
thereto (the Business Purpose), The General Partner will not engage in maierial activities (including
holding any material assets or incurring any material liabilities) unrelated to the Business Purpose, The
General Partner has no prior operating history or prior business and will not have any substantial assets or

115

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024548
