Tuesday, December 13, 2016 e Page 24

Lighted Bo

Boats festooned for Christmas wow spectators during the Lighted Boat Parade on
Saturday along the Christiansted boardwalk on St. Croix. Above, the crew on Time
Out waves to the crowd. Left, Santa makes an appearance. Top left, Live the Dash
delivers a message of peace.

Winning entries were: Sail Boats, first place, Time Out; Power Catamarans, first
place, Adventure, second place, Gemini/Century; Power Boats Under 25 Feet, first
place, Saorise, second, Checkmate; Power Boats 26-32 Feet, first place, Firefly;
Power Boats 33-39 Feet, first place, Benita, second place, Golden Eagle; Power
Boats 40 Feet, first place, Irie Feelin, second place, Milemark/Rotary; Power Boats
41+ Feet, first place, Reliance (SCUBA), second place, Renewed Interest; Best
Lights, a tie between Living the Dream and the U.S. Coast Guard; Best Decora-
tions, La Vie En Rose; Best Animation, Cat Chi; Best Music, Turn & Burn; Best
Creativity, Live the Dash; and Best Boat Overall, Heineken Barge.

Daily News photos by ROB JONES

Tribute to a V.I. leader

Send us your Island Life
news, events and photos

The community paid tribute to the late Mulo Alwani

_ The Daily News is expanding : oe an aaa on Friday with a memorial service gathering at
its Island Life section. . ‘ the Mark C. Marin Center at Antilles School on St.
Do you have an event, a celebration, or Ro =) = Thomas. Alwani, the president of the India Associa-
a milestone, including a birth, graduation, ee ee] tion of the Virgin Islands and a longtime community
wedding, retirement, award, honor or military \ L ; : | leader, died on Nov. 19 in Miami after a bout with
accomplishment you'd like to share? i Cancer, He was 79.
_ Maybe you have a photo from around our Saal } 0 ; | Alwani, the former owner of Artistic Jewelers in
islands you think our readers would like to 1) Charlotte Amalie, had served on the Schneider
see, whether it’s a beautiful sunset, a big in A Medical Center governing board and was a leader in
catch or people just having fun in the sun. is | e i the Rotary and the Masonic Lodge. He was remem-
Help us celebrate our community  — q bered as the “godfather of the Indian community”
by sending us your contributions a 4 & ‘ os as well as a friend and a mentor to many.

to island-life@dailynews.vi.
The possibilities are endless.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014510
