in the beginning . there was eileen and tom. ( eve and adam,-- however it appears, she declined to eat the

apple from the knowledge tree)
that was it. ada was at the bank but reviewing docs. carlyn was in the kitchen making mush ( abel and cain)

books as they were mystersiously called was being kept soley by eileen, with little or no input ,correction or
advice from tom. herarely if ever asked questions. expenses ie airplane was done in house apollo. (1031
exchange blown etc) at this time
as I recall you got quite annoyed, and agressive and initiated the talking out of the both sides of your mouth 
tiddy, when 1 suggested that the level of their competence left much to be desired. ( ralph lerner's came later
) .response - eileen ran the desk, tom is a partner, ralph wrote the book etc

re tax there was almost no oversight of income, estate, gift ,sales and use, transfer excise etc . IRS SEC
GAMING NYS. real estate, valuations ( many )tax filings- disclosures, etc. re grats trusts defect trusts, Ilcs
corps , trustees , partnerships. foreign corps. 100 bank accounts. gift taxes, , loans, notes. payables. expenses.
., Insurance.( life, art, split dollar), cashflows, operating biz, , investments, contingent liabilitiites.( funds ,
miami ), commitments dividends, BRH TRA, shareholder agreements, bank loan
agreements. wills, construction, , contracts planning permits etc..employ rules. checking account
reconciliations, crediti cards. jewelry , cost basis ,( art stock etc.) foundations regs , brokerage accts, old
stock certificates. stock options,( environmental solutions still not done !). estate tax calcualtion firedrill, (
note ,basis etc ) low basis , step ups , however with no accounting system, no reveiw of boat expenses plane
expenses etc. . many outside counsel with litle or no coordination.
Paul Weisss , Mcdermit Will, Macfarlanes. Price Waterhouse , Reich, withers bergman, Empire, , akin gump,
bbd seidman, Wendy , Apollo in house .
lumber, knowledge universe, ennvironmental, solutions 12 mii in stock, . on and on
the priority list that you asked me to prepare for brad and you in dec , unfortunatlleyso far , little change
ie no accounting system that ties, no, brokerage accounts though strongly suggested , jpm db, gs, april of
2014 . IT antiquated
dagastino hired , no inut from me, julie, temps, paralegals miriam . etc.

still need new accounting system - on line banking . staff hires. ( seprate from samantha two years out of
school ). audit system, . ?? john murphy? joslin? dag? eva? . i strongly suggest workers at the highest level of
competence. two senior accountants. not managers workers who will get into the weeds. partn expertise, ,
replace ava, get heather help. a new person legal , new IT,system and person, way way overdue, new
receptionist, bill opener, ability to oeversee

in house, boat plane review household ( 12million ) review, filings- partnerhip accounting,- familitarity with
grats, trusts etc . audit system put in place. that should be the easy part. then strategy to deal with :

As new facts on the ground develop , phaidon debra, children meeetings, ? stock sale sale of art, , apt( large
gain ), 1031 trade in , plane depreciation, boat sale. construction , brad will oversee brokerage and investment,
?? pe. reales, . publishing, grats, tra, brh ( death). foundation , museum, tax proejctions cash flow projections,
cooridnation with tax from apollo. etc

Date: Thu, May 28, 2015 at 8:53 PM

Subject: ulysses 2.0

To: Melanie Spin hii

I realize it is only due to a lack of understanind of the job ahead. and not out of any sense of unwillingess to
pay

- as opposed to merely hiring people to set up a family office, someone will have to do_ the following- separate
from the art partnership which is my responsiblity . there still needs to be a huge amount of work done for
2015,16. not to mention that brad at the moment is going to have train the incoming team?? your call
strategic decisions re estate and other planning , sale of phaidon etc. . in addition setting up for the accounting
for each strategy ie.:

income, estate, gift ,sales and use, transfer excise picasso, 1031 calder.. review and detailed oversite of IRS
SEC GAMING NYS. real estate, entity valuations (many ) tax _filings- disclosures, follow up of  grats,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023303
