How Not to Teach 175

Of course, the system teachers teach in does not allow them to
separate assessment and teaching. But it doesn’t allow them to teach
only cognitive processes either. For a cognitive process-based educa-
tion system to work, teachers must be allowed to teach, and others
should be the ultimate judges of success. Teachers need to help stu-
dents get where they are trying to go and let others decide whether
they have gotten there.

So, we have rule #2 for teaching:

Rule #2: A teacher should never be the ultimate judge of the
teachers own students’ success. Here again, this seems absurd. But
in the end, this separation of responsibilities is very important. Parents
judge how well their children are walking and talking, of course. But
the children are not anxious about passing their parents’ assessments.
The success is its own reward. And in the end, others judge how well
your children speak. A parent is really there to help, not judge.

Let’s look at mistake #3.

Mistake #3: Thinking there is something that everyone must
know in order to proceed

This is, of course, the killer mistake. Go to any faculty meeting, or
interview any teacher, and he will tell you that something is the basis
for all that follows that, and if you don’t know it, you can’t proceed
in the subject he teaches. Theory first is the mantra of nearly every
teacher. The question is why this is so. I have been in arguments about
this so often that I wonder why these views are so widely held.

Teach theory first, then practice. Because of this mantra, computer
science majors often don’t learn to program in a way that actually
would make them hirable, and budding medical students drown in a
sea of chemistry equations. Businesspeople learn about finance long
before they learn how to run a business, if they ever do learn that, and
psychology students learn about B.E. Skinner when what they really
wanted to know is why they are so screwed up.

Why do teachers like teaching theory so much? I think that the
answer is that it is orderly stuff, with official answers that the teach-
er gets to know while the students try to learn them. This puts the
teacher in a powerful situation and teachers are comfortable with
that. Teaching practice is much harder. There often are no right an-
swers and many screw-ups, and the learning process is much messier.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023921
