“As additional details about Epstein’s crimes have emerged, it is clear to me that we
should have pushed for much harsher terms,” Sloman wrote. “That said, some have
mistakenly suggested that our office kowtowed to Epstein’s high-priced defense
lawyers or, worse, that his lawyers corrupted or intimidated us into submission. ...
Nothing could be further from the truth.”

Sloman did not directly address the chief complaint brought by Epstein’s victims,
who are now in their late 20s and early 30s. Those who spoke to the Herald said
they felt betrayed by federal prosecutors, who sealed the non-prosecution agreement
from public view so that they wouldn’t find out about it before he was sentenced. It
would be almost a year before they were successful in having it unsealed. By then, it
was too late to try to derail it.

They allege, in a federal lawsuit filed against the government, that prosecutors
deliberately kept the deal secret — in violation of federal law — to prevent them
from appearing at Epstein’s sentencing to possibly undo the deal. Nor did Sloman
address why prosecutors also gave immunity to a number of Epstein’s co-
conspirators, who have never been identified.

“They cut a deal which they have to know was a failure,” said Marci Hamilton, a law
professor at the University of Pennsylvania and executive director of Child USA,
which advocates for children’s civil liberties. “ They kept it secret and they didn’t
charge the co-conspirators. The horror of this is if you don’t hold all the ‘Johns’
accountable, then it doesn’t stop. This case involved multiple girls, multiple men,
multiple recruiters, multiple times and he recruited girls to get other girls. That’s a
trafficking organization.”

Acosta has not commented since 2011, when he defended his decisions in a publicly
issued letter that can be found in the federal court file. In it, he described what he
called a “yearlong assault” on prosecutors by Epstein’s “army of legal superstars,”
including Roy Black, Kenneth Starr and Alan Dershowitz, among others. In four
long paragraphs, Acosta detailed how defense attorneys relentlessly worked to
manipulate the negotiation process, often frustrating prosecutors.

“They would obtain concessions as part of a negotiation and agree to proceed, only
to change their minds, and appeal the office’s decision to Washington,” Acosta
wrote, adding that their tactics included delving into the private family lives of
individual prosecutors in an effort to discredit them and get them removed from the
case.

Wrote Sloman: “The Herald’s ‘Perversion of Justice’ series presented a heartrending
portrait of Epstein’s victims and made a strong case that he should have gone to jail
much longer, but never explained or substantiated its accusation that we schemed
with Epstein’s lawyers.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023129
