Freedom House

Eastern Europe, and military dictatorships elsewhere,
there was an explosion of newspapers, radio and
television stations, and other independent media with
diverse editorial policies. But the internet in particular
was seen as an irresistible force that could render
censorship of any kind impossible. In 2000, President
Bill Clinton compared China's efforts to control inter-
net content to “trying to nail Jell-O to the wall.””

Third, a growing number of experts began to identify
anew instigator of democratic change in global civil
society. Unlike the “peoples movements’ of earlier
decades, in which well-known leaders mobilized mass
demonstrations and often insurrectionary violence
with the goal of overthrowing despotic regimes, the
phenomenon that was labeled civil society consisted
of organizations that were often committed to a single
cause or a few causes united by a particular theme.
Most activists were young, with little prior involvement
in politics, and many regarded themselves as part of

a global effort to advance goals like reducing carbon
emissions, empowering women, or fighting corruption.

In a prescient 1997 article, Jessica T. Mathews predict-
ed that in the future global civil society would be the
triggering force behind liberal change.* She suggested
that in many cases civil society organizations would
play amore important role than governments. Her
words seemed prescient in light of later events in
Serbia, where student activists organized a campaign
that eventually brought about the downfall of President
Slobodan MiloSevicé in 2000, and in Ukraine, where
young reformers played a pivotal role in ensuring that
the 2004 elections were not stolen through fraud.

In declaring that dictatorships or even authoritarian
methods were destined to succumb to this triad of

new social forces, commentators were also express-
ing optimism about the universal appeal of liberal
values. The decade after the end of the Cold War
was a heyday for democratic ideas and norms. It was
increasingly expected that countries would not only
hold elections, but that their elections would meet
international standards and be judged “free and fair.”
There was also an expectation that political parties
would be able to compete on a reasonably level
playing field, that opposition leaders would not be
harassed or arrested, and that minorities would be
able to pursue their agendas through normal political
channels and not find it necessary to wage perpetual
protest campaigns.

However, there were nagging questions. It remained
unclear whether most societies would have access to
multiple sources of political ideas, multiple interpreta-
tions of the news, and open scholarly inquiries about
the past. Would there be honest judicial proceedings,
especially in cases with political implications? Would
property rights be secure?

Beyond these primarily domestic issues, there was
another series of questions related to individual
governments’ relations with their neighbors and the
rest of the world. The end of the Cold War had brought
a peace dividend, both financial and psychological,

for all sides. At the time, most assumed that peace
would prove durable. But would the general decline

in military budgets hold? Would the new national
boundaries that divided the former Soviet Union and
the former Yugoslavia be sustainable?

As modern authoritarianism has taken root and ex-
panded its influence, the answers to these questions
are increasingly negative.

1. Freedom in the World 2016 (New York: Freedom House, 2016), https://freedomhouse.org/report/freedom-world/free-

dom-world-2016.
2. Ibid.
3. Ibid.

4. Ceylan Yeginsu, “Turks Feud Over Change in Education,” New York Times, December 8, 2014, http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/09/
world/europe/erdogan-pushes-ottoman-language-classes-as-part-of-tradtional-turkish-values.html.

5. Eleanor Albert, “The Shanghai Cooperation Organization,” Council on Foreign Relations, October 14, 2015, http://www.cfr.org/

china/shanghai-cooperation-organization/p10883.

6. “Freedom in the World at 41,” in Freedom in the World 2014 (New York: Freedom House, 2014), https://freedomhouse.org/sites/
default/files/Freedom%20in%20the%20World%202014%20Booklet.pdf.

7. “Chinas Internet: A Giant Cage,” Economist, April 6, 2013, http://www.economist.com/news/special-report/21574628-internet-

was-expected-help-democratise-china-instead-it-has-enabled.

8. Jessica T. Mathews, “Power Shift,” Foreign Affairs (January/February 1997), https://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/1997-01-01/

power-shift.

www.freedomhouse.org

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019243
