New Curricula for a New Way of Teaching 95

were no faculty located at this campus, since Carnegie Mellon is in
Pittsburgh. I took this as an opportunity, not as a problem, since fac-
ulty want to teach the way they always have taught. Lecturing is easy
and faculty like to do it. Students have learned to cope with lectur-
ing and later cramming for tests, so no one complains much. No one
learns much from this, but no one seems to be too concerned about it.

I was asked to design master’s degree programs in computer sci-
ence. It seemed to me that students entered a master’s degree program
because they wanted to get a good job after graduation, so I asked
what jobs they were preparing for as I looked at each Pittsburgh cam-
pus program. Even though the faculty in Pittsburgh had been teach-
ing these master’s degree programs for years, faculty members were
surprisingly unconcerned with what students did after graduation.
They just taught their courses, their specialties actually, and assumed
the students would find value in them. This seemed an odd state of
affairs to anyone who looked at it from the outside, but as professor I
know that faculty are rarely concerned with master’s degree students
at all and naturally wouldn’t have given these programs that much
thought.

There was a great deal of hostility to the SCCs that were built by
my team and me. They were seen as threatening the existing structure
of courses and lectures. Nevertheless, the students liked them a great
deal and the people who mentored in them, after some initial resis-
tance, began to like them and promote them. This happened in the
areas of software engineering and software development.

The faculty in e-business liked what we had built so much that
they got rid of the existing course-based, e-business master’s degree
they had offered in Pittsburgh and now offer only the SCC version on
the main CMU campus.

SCCs work and work well. Students learn actual skills and teach-
ers feel like they are helping students do something real. But faculty,
who are used to the old classroom-style method, often resist doing the
hard work now required of them. This is true for students as well. One
mentor in the West Coast e-business program who himself had gradu-
ated from the Pittsburgh classroom-based program said that he felt
sorry for the kids on the West Coast campus because they had to work
so hard. He noted that they were learning a lot more than he did but
that he had liked sitting in the back of the classroom and ignoring the
teacher. It was much easier and he had done well at that.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023841
