a

i iL
Chloe Malle and 4==
Candice Bergen

Anderson
Cooper

Diane Von =a i. >
Furstenberg

a4

Jon Hamm and

inifer Westfeldt
Lynn
Wyatt

Crawford, Claire Danes and Hugh Dancy, Darren
Aronofsky, director John Wells, Kerry Washington, Piers
Morgan, Rachel Zoe, Sean Parker, Zack Braff and Leonardo
Dicaprio with Bar Rafaeli. Speech filmmakers are function-
ing on high anxiety.

SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 27

Producer Donna Gigliotti is my date to the awards. We are
both so nervous we arrive at the Kodak Theater at 3 p.m. and
nobody is there. We are driven around for an hour. When we
arrive back at the world’s most famous red carpet, I guide
Donna through security check-in to the extreme right to
make sure we get on camera. I teach her the red carpet
hustle, which is five steps forward, three steps back, one inch
behind a couture-clad nominee. We greet Kevin Huvane as
Sandra Bullock is talking to ABC-TV and a billion people see
me wearing a black Marchesa gown. Five steps forward, three
steps back, we next meet Gwyneth Paltrow, and I hook up the
back of her dress while another billion people see me correct
the fashion malfunction. Five steps forward, three steps back,
were now posing behind Nicole Kidman and Keith Urban.
Our Blackberrys begin buzzing; the world has seen us.

James Franco and Anne Hathaway are hip hosts. This is the
year of no surprises. But it isn’t until Hilary Swank yells out
Hooper’s name for Best Director that Harvey’s gang finally
realizes they are getting the Oscar for Best Picture after all.
Harvey is sitting in Spielberg’s seat as Spielberg announces
the win from the stage. Producers Iain Canning, Emile
Sherman and Gareth Unwin leap up and kiss each other. Six
months of grueling work have finally paid off. King George
VI and Harvey Weinstein now share the journey of a single
man who triumphs over adversity.

At the Governor’s ball, held above the Kodak Theater,
the winners triumphantly sachet around the room holding
their heavy eight-pound gold statues.

An hour later there is a migration to the Vanity Fair party
hosted by Graydon Carter at Jeff Klein’s Sunset Tower
Hotel. The invitation features a gold hologram that trans-
mits a radio frequency of a photo and details about the

guest to VF staff as they arrive. The next day “Page Six” will

report that the backup private security firm is run by a

former Israeli operative, when in fact they are Irish

Catholics from Staten Island.

There’s a hierarchy of arrival times. At 5 p.m. the inner
circle of Graydon’s 141 best friends attend a seated dinner.
They include Barry Diller and Diane von Furstenberg,

Francis Ford Coppola, Jon Hamm and Jennifer Westfeldt,

Betsey Bloomingdale, Tory Burch and Lyor Cohen,
Carolina and Reinaldo Herrera, Wren Scott and Sir
Mick Jagger, Naomi Watts and Liev Schreiber, Wendi
Stark, George Hamilton, Judd Apatow, Jackie and Joan

Collins, Donna Karan and Steve Martin.
The best and the brightest talent in town arrive at 9 p.m.
Every single winner shows up. Also there are Justin
Bieber and his date Selena Gomez, Michelle Williams,
Emma Stone, Steve Tyler and Liv Tyler, Andrew
Garfield, Jude Law, Armie Hammer, Vera Farmiga,

Donald and Melania Trump

ey Baal as =

Kevin Spacey, Charlize Theron, Anne Hathaway, Winter’s
Bone star-of-tomorrow Jennifer Lawrence, Taylor Hackford Fran
and Helen Mirren, Scarlett Johansson, Isla Fischer and  ‘#>owitz
Sasha Baron Cohen, Tom Hanks, Sean Penn, Renee
Zellweger and Bradley Cooper and Jane Fonda after her
play, 33 Variations. | introduce Melania and Donald Trump
to David O. Russell as The Trumpster gushes about The
Fighter. David tells Donald he used to be a waiter/bar tender
at many of Trump’s parties. Donald smiles as if looking at yet
another apprentice. He then offers me a ride home on his
plane; he’s leaving in 10 minutes. Too bad James Franco
didn’t know because he is presently sitting on a commercial
flight back to school, skipping his own after-party. The rest of
the guests’ social standings are determined by half-hour
increments. VPs Beth Kseniak, Matt Ullian and Jane Sarkin
tell me the list is cut down to 800 this year.

At 11:30 p.m. there is another celebrity migration up the
hill to Madonna manager Guy Oseary’s house. Earlier in the

Chace

| Crawford

Barkin
evening, Madonna came down the hill to pose in a risqué
see-thru outfit with daughter Lourdes. Madonna and co-host
Demi Moore are able to lure the créme de la créme with the
promise of dancing and no cameras.

A winner’s work is never done. Colin Firth, Tom Hooper
and David Seidler show up at 4:30 a.m. at The Four
Seasons Hotel for a live broadcast on “The Today Show.”
Functioning on an adrenalin rush, they return to the
Kodak Theater with Geoffrey Rush to appear on Oprah’s
live broadcast.

By the end of this year’s thrilling race between two
great producers—Scott Rudin and Harvey Weinstein—
Facebook and Twitter are credited for aiding political
justice from the streets of Cairo to Tripoli. But the British
film with the most heart wins as one single human voice can
still make a difference. The king has spoken. # \

|

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012703
