monogamous and that the child would belong in Jeffrey’s custody in the
event of a falling out between the two of you.” She kind of threw that last
one in there quickly, as if she could get away with me not hearing that I
would basically have to relinquish the rights to my own flesh in blood
and surrender them to a life of servitude and abuse with these people. My
maternal alarm bells went off straight away and I already knew my
answer. No way I could I do that to any poor baby, God only knew what
these monsters had in store for me let alone a baby, but it was an instant
reaction that saved me. “I don’t know guy’s, | mean I’m really young
and never really even thought about having kids yet. Wow, I just don’t
know.” I slicked my hand through my hair nervously and took in a silent
breath. [ had to go beyond what I was truly feeling and give them the
feeling that I’d never let them down. Putting an eager smile on my face
and sucking up my gut’s intuition I told them “You know what, let me get
my certificates in massage and have some time to prepare for this and get
healthy then next year we’ll all think about having a baby together.” It
was crazy to even hear me say out loud but from the expressions on their
faces I had fulfilled their wishes.

Much reason to celebrate that night they were both in a cheery mood
around the dinner table. Except for me who had taken double the dosage
of Xanax to even cope with the high amounts of anxiety I had been
suffering from since we got back from the dock. I wasn’t sipping the
champagne that night, I was gulping it and when their moods tumed from
cheery to raunchy later that evening it wasn’t hard for me to comply.
From the full effects of the state I was in I would’ve agreed to just about
anything, allowing them to treat themselves to ravishing the tender parts
of my body.

Over the next few weeks everything went on as it normally would, and
not another mention of their proposal. My birthday was only a week away
and I was turning nineteen that year. All ] wanted was to get my
certificates before I got any older and get trapped into this life for good.
When my big day rolled around I was in New York with Jeffrey and
Ghislane. Sitting on my bed listening to MTV’s channel blare in the
background of my room I was painting my toenails when I was suddenly
buzzed on the intercom. It was Jeffrey calling himself to ask me to meet
him in his office in ten minutes. Perfect timing to let my nails dry I
thought to myself. Already contemplating his desire to come downstairs I
knew it had something to do with my birthday present but I was more
expecting the usual shopping money or piece of jewelry, definitely not
what he had in store for me.

I knocked on the slightly ajar door to Jeffrey’s office and heard him
beckon me inside. “Hello, what cha up too?” I asked in a cutesy tone of
voice. Walking over to his desk he looked up at me taking his reading

115

©] Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004248

glasses off while granting me a big smile. “Come over here and sit down
with me” as he ushered me to come sit on his lap. Pulling me onto him he
had a funny look on his face, like he had something really big to tell me
and was letting the anticipation build in the thickness of the silence.
“What???” I laughed at the way he was looking at me now. “First of
all.:. Happy birthday today.” Was only the beginning of his
announcement and he proceeded to tell me “I know how much you have
wanted this for so long and you are more than deserving of it. You are
going away to Thailand to learn authentic Thai Massage and within eight
weeks you'll receive a certificate for being a qualified Thai Massage
Therapist.” Astonished at his attempts to see me get what 1 wanted, not
exactly the type of massage I was interested in but it was a start and a
first certificate for me to acquire. My eyes lit up and I threw my arms
around his neck, planting a big kiss on his lips, which I rarely ever did.
“Wow, I don’t know what to say, this is beyond my wildest
dreams...thank you so much!” I did well to let him know I appreciated
his grandeur offer. He went on to give me the details of where I’d be
staying, the school’s schedules, and how much he loved Thai massage,
apparently it was the next big thing to hit the shores of America. He had
planned out an entire itinerary for me. I was to depart at the end of
August and he had already enrolled me in a class at “ITM Massage
School”. I would only have a few days to settle in before I would be
attending classes five days a week over eight hours a day. He even had an
assignment for me to do while I was over there. | was to meet up with a
girl who was also being put up at the “Princess Hotel” where | was
staying. She had an Asian sounding name so I just assumed she was a
local girl hoping for an opportunity of a lifetime, if she only knew what
she would be getting herself into. If 1 decided that she met Jeffrey’s
particular quota of approval then she would be sent over to the U.S to
meet with him or one of his esteemed colleagues. Besides the guilt of
having to decide a stranger’s uncertain fate, everything else sounded
more than wonderful. Eight weeks gone from Jeffrey sounded like a
lifetime away and I couldn’t be more excited at this chance. It was the
opportunity of my lifetime and I wasn’t going to waste a second of it.
Ghislane came in a few minutes later and the look on her face told me
she already knew. I got up from Jeffrey’s lap and gave her a big hug and
told her, “This is so nice of you guys, Thank you so much!” She didn’t
share my enthusiasm of excitement. In a dull tone she responded, “I
didn’t have a thing to do with it, it was all Jeffrey’s idea but good-luck
anyways.” She gave me her best impression of being human for a brief
second and hugged me back. It was just her way and I had come to accept
it. Depending on the level of slander her insults provoked was just her
way of telling you she cares without really ever showing it. Probably

U Copyright Protected Material

CAUTEREO04 249.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021202
