49

violations,”®° three former Haitian officials involved in the

same scheme were convicted of money laundering,”

Mail and Wire Fraud

The mail and wire fraud statutes may also apply. In
2006, for example, a wholly owned foreign subsidiary of
a US. issuer pleaded guilty to both FCPA and wire fraud
counts where the scheme included overbilling the sub-
sidiary’s customers—both government and private—and
using part of the overcharged money to pay kickbacks to the
customers’ employees. The wire fraud charges alleged that
the subsidiary had funds wired from its parent’s Oregon
bank account to off-the-books bank accounts in South
Korea that were controlled by the subsidiary. The funds,
amounting to almost $2 million, were then paid to manag-
ers of state-owned and private steel production companies
in China and South Korea as illegal commission payments
and kickbacks that were disguised as refunds, commissions,

and other seemingly legitimate expenses.”

Certification and Reporting Violations

Certain other licensing, certification, and reporting
requirements imposed by the U.S. government can also be
implicated in the foreign bribery context. For example, as
a condition of its facilitation of direct loans and loan guar-
antees to a foreign purchaser of US. goods and services,
the Export-Import Bank of the United States requires the
US. supplier to make certifications concerning commis-
sions, fees, or other payments paid in connection with the
financial assistance and that it has not and will not violate
the FCPA. A false certification may give rise to criminal
liability for false statements.

Similarly, manufacturers, exporters, and brokers of
certain defense articles and services are subject to regis-
tration, licensing, and reporting requirements under the
Arms Export Control Act (AECA), 22 U.S.C. § 2751, et
seq., and its implementing regulations, the International
Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), 22 C.ER. § 120, e¢
seq. For example, under AECA and ITAR, all manufactur-
ers and exporters of defense articles and services must reg-

ister with the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. The

sale of defense articles and services valued at $500,000 or
more triggers disclosure requirements concerning fees and
commissions, including bribes, in an aggregate amount of
$100,000 or more.” Violations of AECA and ITAR can

result in civil and criminal penalties.”*

Tax Violations

Individuals and companies who violate the FCPA may
also violate U.S. tax law, which explicitly prohibits tax deduc-
tions for bribes, such as false sales “commissions” deductions
intended to conceal corrupt payments.”*’ Internal Revenue
Service-Criminal Investigation has been involved in a num-
ber of FCPA investigations involving tax violations, as well as

other financial crimes like money laundering.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022551

