The fact that we feel less empathy for people in pain if they fall outside our inner sanctum
suggests that we have dehumanized them, stripping away dimensions of experience that humanize those
within the sanctum. These are the dimensions associated with emotion, and when taken away, cause us to
perceive the other as an object. Since objects can’t feel pain or joy, we can’t share in their experience
because they lack experience altogether. If that is the case, then when we perceive any human group that
has been dehumanized in this particular way, there should be little to no activity in those areas of the brain
associated with thinking, feeling, wanting, and believing. To explore this possibility, the social
psychologist Susan Fiske placed subjects in a brain scanner and presented photographs of either extreme
out-group members, such as the homeless and drug addicts, or photographs of other groups such as the
elderly, middle-class Americans, and the rich. When viewing the extreme out-group, not only did Fiske
see little activity in an area critically related to self-awareness and the process of thinking about others
thoughts and emotions — the medial prefrontal cortex — but she also observed an intense increase of
activity in the insula, a brain area that is recruited when we experience disgust.

Fiske’s results highlight the dangers of dehumanization. Once we turn off areas of the brain that
are involved in thinking about others’ thoughts and emotions, and turn on areas involved in disgust, we
have set ourselves up for moral disengagement. As the distinguished American psychologist Albert
Bandura has documented through decades of research, moral disengagement allows people to justify harm
by transforming lethal motives into morally justified and even benevolent ones. Moral disengagement
allows us to excuse ourselves from moral responsibility, either disregarding the harm imposed or
convincing ourselves that it was justified, even obligatory. In several international studies of school-aged
children, results consistently show that those who are most morally disengaged are most likely to engage
in various forms of aggression, including bullying and repeated criminal offenses. These same children
are also least likely to engage in helpful behavior, revealing that moral disengagement dispenses with the
typical process of self-censure and sanctioning that we carry around when we are morally engaged. Ina
study of American prison personnel involved in death penalty sentences, executioners were more morally
disengaged than support staff or prison guards. Executioners were more likely to dehumanize the
convicted prisoner and provide moral and economic justifications. Executioners also felt less guilt
because they had developed a narrative to justify their actions, one that ascribed complete fault and
responsibility to the victim. Support staff flipped in the opposite direction, fully involved with the
weighty moral issues associated with ending someone’s life. In a study of people’s political attitudes,
those with strong right wing authoritarian views, commonly associated with fascism and submission to
authority, were more likely to support war by means of morally disengaging. In particular, they were most

likely to support war by justifying its necessity and trivializing the harm that will necessarily arise — for

Hauser Chapter 3. Ravages of denial 105

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012851
