Government arrears to contractors could be significant

We estimate the range of unpaid capex for 2015 to be SAR23bn-SAR100bn (US$6bn-
USS$27bn or 1-4.3% of 2015 GDP). At the very minimum, unpaid capex could be around
SAR23bn. This is the amount of additional loans taken out by construction contractors
over 2015 compared to 2014. Total construction loans were SAR106bn in 2015 versus
SAR83bn in 2014. Contractors likely did not go to obtain alternative bank funding for
the same amount as the delayed payments from the government, suggesting delayed
payments should be larger than SAR23bn, in our view.

By the same token, the 2015 budget outturns imply capex was down by 45% to
SAR205bn versus 2014 levels of SAR370bn. This is of course unlikely as construction
grew by 5% in real terms in 2015. Correcting the 2015 budget by the likely
underreporting (an additional SAR100bn in spending, assuming it was all capex-related),
then capex spending was likely down by SAR65bn (17%) in 2015. This would be in line
with the c15%yoy drop in construction awards as reported by MEED.

In comparison, government overdues in the healthcare sector are much smaller. Based
on the disclosures of two listed healthcare groups, we estimate the growth of
government receivables owed to them alone is SARO.4bn. We estimate the total sector
government overdues to private healthcare operators could be 2-3 times this level.

1OUs to serve multiple purposes

1OUs could support simultaneously the multiple needs of the government, domestic
banks and contractors, in our view. The government will be able to conserve fiscal
reserves and restructure the maturity of its outstanding dues. Domestic banks would
substitute corporate credit risk with sovereign risk and improve asset quality, while
contractors could improve their liquidity and working capital position by cashing in early
on the IOUs. We believe most of the contractors impacted could be domestic ones, and
we presume these IOCs would be issued in domestic currency. Furthermore, to the
extent these |OUs are structured as tradable instruments, this could better distribute
risk in the financial sector to those agents more capable or willing to hold it.

Domestic liquidity could be eased, but Fx outflows may not subside

The impact of |OUs on domestic liquidity will likely depend on the issuance mechanism,
of which we have little visibility for now, though this could likely ease domestic liquidity.
We would however expect subsequent Fx reserves losses due to an increase in demand
for Fx consequent to the liquidity injections (a 50% leakage would for instance lead to
USS13.5bn loss in Fx reserves at the high-end of the estimated arrears range).

One possibility for the mechanism would be for banks to extend more secured credit to
contractors using the lOUs as collateral. In this case, domestic liquidity is likely to
remain tight as the banking sector balance sheet would stay stretched. Another, perhaps
more likely, option would be for banks to accept IOUs as deposits. Contractors would
then be able to transfer |OUs to their trade creditors and withdraw cash regularly, with
the total amount being likely a portion of the face value of the |OUs. Banks would hold
new government instruments on the asset side of their balance sheet. This mechanism
could also be structured as a simple sale of the IOUs to domestic banks (with a haircut),
which domestic banks would accommodate through equivalent changes on the asset
side of their balance sheet, without the creation of additional liabilities.

In the latter option, to avoid straining the banking sector liquidity, the deposits
withdrawal or in effect the increased money in circulation would likely require monetary
accommodation from SAMA, in our view. We believe this could take the form of liquidity
injection, possibly through repo operations for the |OUs. Although unconventional, this

OS Merrill Lynch GEMs Paper #26 | 30 June 2016 29

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016139
