types of people. Their friendships and partnerships can change like the
weather.

I went home that night still confused on how I could let myself sink so
low, I had to put on an act like I enjoyed submitting my body and being
their new subservient plaything all for the fact that I was making
anywhere between $200-$400 for just a couple of hours. Then spent the
rest of the night regressing on the entire event in my head over and over
again. I battled those thoughts with the hope that I was receiving a
profession out of this and making good money in the meantime. Al! I had
to do was keep lying to myself long enough until I eventually believed it.

Arriving at Jeffrey’s on time the next afternoon, as I always did,
understanding punctuality was a sign of respect and I wanted them to feel
as if they had my deepest appreciation for the once in a lifetime chance
they had given to a girl of my history. This time when Juan answered the
door he told me Mr. Epstein and Ms. Maxwell were waiting for me
upstairs in the massage room. I began my hike up the familiar spiraling
staircase and through to the room where my arrival was being deeply
anticipated. They were already in the steam room awaiting me to join
them. I undressed out of my uniform and folded them in a neat pile,
which I placed upon the marble basin. Having one last look in the mirror
before | exhaling a deep breath as if I was plunging into deep water, I
knew today was a big day. | either accepted their offer and trade my
morals for opportunity, or walk away with the prospect of one day many
years from now trying to make it on my own which I knew endowed
hardships of there own.

So confused about what decision to make, I just opened the door to the
steam room and let them do the talking. Used to the routine by now I sat
below Jeffrey and began to massage his feet and legs as I listened in on
their ongoing conversation about travel plans for the next few weeks.
Ghislane and Jeffrey turned their attention to me and he asked me how
would I like to go see the big city of Manhattan. I told them I had never
visited New York before and it sounded like an adventure but my job at
Mar-A-Lago was only a summer job and wouldn’t be able to get the time
off, especially that summer was so busy anyways.

Jeffrey then made his announcement, that I should just quit my job at
Mar-a-Lago and become his permanent travelling masseuse. He then
further persuaded me with all of the luxuries that came along with my
acceptance. Rather than being paid $9 dollars per hour at my current job I
could be earning $200 dollars per massage, which he even said could be a
few times a day. Tomorrow we could be leaving Palm Beach together in
his private jet first heading to his residence in the upper east side of
Manhattan, also the largest mansion in N.Y, and would next be setting off
to the Caribbean, where he owned a secluded island just past Little St.

33

Ii Copyright Protected Material
CONHIDENTIAL GIUFFREG04166

James for a bit of relaxation. The temptation of his grandeur offer wasn’t
hard to give into, my vulnerability to be lewd into his grasp seemed
comforting at the time. The idea that females were nothing more than an
empty shell of beauty bound by only a body to offer was a notion I had
accepted a long time ago with my first teacher, Ron.

My reaction had to be more than amusing for their egos, even though I
was excited to be traveling | could only imagine the likeliness of having
to be at their beckon call as well. In my head I just told myself we all do
what we have to do in our lives to succeed no matter what it takes, and
with no one knowing the truth, I had no one to talk me out of it.
accepted his offer and knew from here on out 1 would be his servant to
his sexual desires until one day 1 would gain my credentials and only then
could I go out on my own and make it in this world that when so young
seems so unconquerable. The night advanced into the usual grooming of
his requirements, for the next hour and a half being exploited to satisfy
Jeffrey’s every sexual whim.

My mom cornered me that night, before I had a chance to avoid
speaking to anyone, heading to the shower then my bedroom, like [ had
been the last week. She knocked at my door with a hostile look in her
eyes, “ Virginia, what exactly does an older couple want with a fifteen
year old girl, who has no credentials and with no experience in massage
therapy?” She used that stern tone of voice that she’s always had, when |
was in trouble.

Thus, as impressionable as I was, my blue eyes batted their innocence
in her direction and I flashed her a girlish grin selling her the pitch that |
had been given earlier that night. Not mentioning the other side to the
glamorous lifestyle I would soon be living in. I told her about the money
I'd be earning, the places I’d be seeing, the people 1 could meet and most
of all the trade I’d be learning. It all sounded so good, except it was a
bunch of lies I had to tell her and myself to otherwise convince us, that
this was a once in a lifetime opportunity, and I had to take it.

She asked when all of this would start, and I as shocking as it was to me
too, | told her I had to go start packing. We were leaving the next
morning off to N.Y.C. At fifteen most girls would be sucking up to their
parents to go to a high-school dance or to go on a date to the movies with
anervous chap, but I wasn’t even asking her. I was simply letting her
know that I would be away for the next couple weeks, maybe three and
would keep in contact when | got free time. Her daughter was lost a long
time ago, and she just now realized it. Backing out of the bathroom, with
nothing she could say, she left me wondering to myself who | was
becoming.

Instead of driving me to work the next morning my Dad dropped me off
at Jeffrey’s mansion, he told me not to worry about calling Mar-A-Lago,

34

Cl Copyright Protected Material

GIUFYRE004 167

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021161
