Case

Document 5
6/14/2016

Organiser: Ghislaine Maxwell looks on as Andrew put his arm around Virginia. Robert Maxwell's daughter
k as E i

invited her to ersonal masseuse soon after her 15th birthday
We kissed on the cheek and Ghislaine placed me on his other knee.’ Johanna spoke to The Mail on
Sunday three years ago about this incident, which took place when she was 21.

She said: ‘Ghislaine put the puppet’s hand on Virginia's breast, then Andrew put his hand on my
breast. It was a great joke. Everybody laughed.’ After this, Virginia was paid, by Epstein, around
$400 (£250).’

She met Andrew for the third and final time on Epstein’s Caribbean island, Little Saint James.
Virginia was never under the British legal age of consent when she met Andrew. She was 17 during
the first two encounters and 18 at the third.

By now, however, Epstein, had started to hint that she was getting ‘too old’ for him.

But during one trip to the island, Epstein and Ghislaine made their most astonishing proposition, and
one which repulsed her. ‘They said Jeffrey wanted me to have his child,’ she says.

‘They said | was part of their family and | was beautiful,young, loyal and nurturing and would be a
great mother.

They said | would have to sign a contract relinquishing rights to the child and consenting to Jeffrey
having as many relationships as he liked. In return | would have my own mansion in Palm Beach
and a large monthly payment, a percentage of his income.’

This, finally, was a wake-up call to Virginia and she began to see the way in which she had been
groomed.

‘It was a smack in the face,’ she says. ‘I finally realised this wasn’t ever going to be a real
relationship but | knew if | refused, I'd be thrown back on the streets. So | said, “I'm too yaung. |
want to get my massage credentials, then maybe we'll do it”.’

The tycoon took her at her word and, for her 19th birthday in August 2002, flew her to Thailand
where he enrolled her in a massage course.

Shortly after arriving there, she met an Australian martial arts expert called Robert. They fell in love
and, just ten days later, married in a Buddhist ceremony.

‘| cailed Jeffrey and told him I'd fallen madly in love,’ Virginia says. ‘| was hoping he’d be delighted.
But he said, “Have a nice life,” and hung up on me.’ The couple now have two sons, aged five and
four, and a daughter who recently turned one.

‘The first few months ajter | married Robert were the worst,’ she says. ‘I couldn’t bring myself to tell
him much. No man wants to know his wife has been traded out.

‘I felt very alone. | was having panic attacks and seeing a psychiatrist and was on anti-depressants.

‘ Virginia was beginning to put her Epstein days behind her when, three years ago, she was phoned
by the FBI.

http:/Avww.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-1361039/Prince-Andrew-girl-17-sex-offender-friend-flew-Britain-meet-him html

L:1SECROTR SH RIV’. VD RRMIPF ROM PPGIM toBileid (OSIt 51 HailPsOsnof 9

of condom brand Lelo
Hex

Wave goodbye to the
rain! The deluge
FINALLY stops as the
Queen arrives at Ascot
with Philip and Harry
after thousands of
racegoers got drenched

Two nations standing
together: Wills and Kate
sign book of condolence
to pay their respacts to
the victims of Orlando
nightclub killer
Paying respects

Time for an upgrade?
David Arquette lists his
historic Los Angeles
mansion for $8.5m
Selling Hancock Park
seven-bedroom home
which he boughtin 2014

She's her own best
advert! Jessica Alba's
tresses glint in the sun
as she promotes her
Honest Company’s new
hair care range in New
York

Katharine McPhee
flashes a hint of
sideboob in a plunging
unbuttoned black dress
as she poses at the
Monte Carlo Television
Festival

Lat the trading bagin!
Independence Day's
Liam Hemsworth
and Vivica A. Fox ring
the NASDAQ bell and
help celebrate the
Army's birthday in NYC

Ava Sambora puts on
an eye-popping display
for sizzling phote shoot
as she parades her
enviable bikini bod in
Malibu
Daughter of rocker Richie
Sambora

How does Adele make
YOU feel? Sad songs
provide ‘enjoyment,
comfort or pain to
different people’

Great comfort from
ssomingly sad songs

Daisy Lowe and
rumored boyfriend
Darius Campbell appear
in high spirits as they
leave star-studded
charity event
She is 27

Sir Paul McCartney
leads tributes as Wings
guitarist Henry

734

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014666
