ba sil

Fa ell el a en ee, |
NL. AY TTA

Centre De Formation Technique Pour
L’Avancement Des Jeunes Du Sud’Est Inc.

Executive Summary

For Haiti to become an economically independent nation from donors and foreign aid there needs
to be support for private industry to establish itself and flourish. At one point in its history, Haiti
was a market leader in the textile industry supplying quality products. Currently there is an
opportunity to provide sustainable employment for Haitians with the right training to develop an
industry to serve as a catalyst to catapult the country out of the stigmatism of a third world country.
‘There is a need for work to be done, such as construction of homes, infrastructure, etc.

Haiti is one of the lowest-income countries in the Western hemisphere. The country has problems
with AIDS, crime, drug trafficking, etc. (CIA, 2010). On January 12th, 2010, an earthquake
destroyed the capital of the country and worsened the overall situation of Haiti. The total loss was
estimated around $11.5 billion; however, the country still needs more time to rebuild (U.S.
Department of State, 2010). The majority of the donor countries worry about Haiti becoming a
burden throughout the years without any positive results (Novacek et. al, 2008). The country has
both positive and negative sides.

This business plan includes secondary data. Secondary data was selected from academic,
government, news resources or based on extensive research by those with experience in dealing
with Haiti. Considering retrieved data, the plan focused on the following aspects:

e Past and current situations in Haiti;

e <A ctitical needs assessment of Southeastern area of Haiti;

e Our plan for investment in Haiti

After the detailed investigation of the authoritative sources and critically evaluating information,
CEFOTAJ has concluded the following:

e Haiti has a potential for investment in the area of apparel/clothing.

e Establishment of our trade/learning school will facilitate and foster future investments
within the country via job and economic growth in the southeastern area.

e Despite its economic situation, the country attracts foreign investments and investors.
e Foreign investments and aid allow restoring the country quicker.

e Foreign investments positively affect the country.

PO Box 666 Brentwood, NY 11717 © Phone (631) 273-4100 © Fax (631) 273-4111 © yair@cefotaj.org © Wwww.cefotaj.org

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019450
