11/5/2015

News

http:/Avww.usnews.com/news/the-report/articles/2015/1 1/04/yitzhak-rabins-m oral-answer-to-the-israeli-dilemma-of-peace-and-survival 3/4

Yitzhak Rabin's Moral Answer to the Israeli Dilemma of Peace and Survival - US News

binational state in which one people ruled another.

He was uniquely qualified for this adventure. Those to his political right had the strength but not the will to
take a calculated risk for peace. Those to his political left had the will but not the strength, He alone, at the
time, had the capacity to persuade the divided and wary Israelis to accept a compromise arrangement with
the Palestine Liberation Organization that held great promise for peace but also great risk. But the risk was
seen as a risk from the Arabs, not the risk of Jew killing Jew, What the right-wing fanatics were blind to is
that their murderous intransigence threatened the state that gave them succor and its necessary
acceptance by the world. Without the flame of peace, they would have nothing but bloodshed threatening
every Israeli's personal security.

[ZUCKERMAN: The Palestinians’ Lies Are Fueling the Violence]

The debate over security in Israel is different from the quarrel with the extremists. Many moderate people
all across Israel are concerned about giving up land, because for years their leaders told them this land
was essential to their national security. In Israel, security decisions are made in the context of the terrible
reality that a single Israeli strategic blunder may mean not only military defeat but a genocidal threat to the
very existence of the state — one that the world could nat forestall, even if it were willing to. Many Israelis
ask: Will the peace process be the beginning of a new future or the beginning of the end?

The Israelis are determined to avoid another genocide, this time in Israel. The decision to exchange lawfully
captured territory for the promise of peace from those who have constantly threatened violence is fraught
with unprecedented risk. Israel will not survive in this neighborhood by superior morality in the absence of
superior real strength. Arab moderation is in direct proportion to Israeli strength. If the Arabs could defeat
Israel, who could doubt that sooner or later they would try?

Can Shimon Peres, a durable politician less trusted by Israelis, lead the people in pursuit of Rabin's twin
goals of peace and security? He is a consummate international diplomat and served with great distinction
as prime minister a decade ago. His ardent desire for peace may be part of his problem, for many people
believe he is too eager to cut a deal, too dovish and not skeptical enough about security issues, too
wrapped up in his own ambitions. So his challenge is to relieve the worries of Israelis as well as meet the
needs of the Palestinians.

In this effort, American support is crucial. Rabin said he was elected to take risks for peace. President
Clinton said, “If that is your goal, | will do my best to minimize the risks you must take. That is the fire of
friendship and support that will enable Israel to fulfill what Rabin so bravely began.

‘Rabin, The Last Day’: Venice Review inform

Inform

@

TAGS: Israel, Palestine, Middle East, Judaism

+ More

Rankings & Consumer Advice

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010756
