JOHN MAZZIOTTA

Dr. John Mazziotta is Chair of the Department of

Neurology, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA,

and Director of the UCLA Ahmanson-Lovelace Brain
Mapping Center. After receiving his B.A. and M.A. degrees
from Columbia University in 1972, he obtained an M.D.

and Ph.D. in Neuroanatomy and Computer Science from
Georgetown University in 1977. Following an internship at
Georgetown, he completed Neurology and Nuclear Medicine
training at UCLA and joined the faculty here in 1983.

Dr. Mazziotta chairs one of the nation’s largest
Neurology departments, which for nine of the last ten
years achieved the distinguished position of being first in
National Institutes of Health (NIH) research funding. An
expert in brain imaging, he established the Brain Mapping
Center at UCLA that includes all of the methods available
to study human brain structure and function. He was the
principal investigator of the International Consortium for
Brain Mapping, whose goal is to develop the first atlas of
the human brain that will include behavioral, demographic,
imaging, and genetic data from 7,000 subjects.

Since beginning this work, Dr. Mazziotta has
published more than 255 research papers and eight texts.
He has received numerous awards and honors, including
the Oldendorf Award from the American Society of
Neuroimaging, the S. Weir Mitchell Award and the
Wartenberg Prize of the American Academy of Neurology,
the Von Hevesy Prize from the International Society
of Nuclear Medicine, the 1996 Medical Science Award
from the UCLA Medical Alumni Association, election
to the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of
Sciences, Honorary Doctorate from l'Université de Caen
and membership in the Royal College of Physicians.

In January 2012, Dr. Mazziotta was appointed
Associate Vice Chancellor for Medical Sciences and Executive
Vice Dean of the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA.

NICHOLAS NEGROPONTE

Nicholas Negroponte (born December 1, 1943) is an
American architect best known as the founder and
Chairman Emeritus of Massachusetts Institute of
Technology’s Media Lab, and also known as the founder
of the One Laptop per Child Association (OLPC).
Negroponte was born to Dimitri John Negroponte,
a Greek shipping magnate, and grew up in New York
City’s Upper East Side. He is the younger brother of John
Negroponte, former United States Deputy Secretary of State.
He attended Buckley School in New York City, Le
Rosey in Switzerland, and The Choate School (now Choate
Rosemary Hall) in Wallingford, Connecticut, from which he
graduated in 1961. Subsequently, he studied at MIT as both
an undergraduate and graduate student in Architecture where
his research focused on issues of computer-aided design. He
earned a Master’s degree in architecture from MIT in 1966.
Negroponte joined the faculty of MIT in 1966.
For several years thereafter he divided his teaching time
between MIT and several visiting professorships at Yale,
Michigan and the University of California, Berkeley.
In 1967, Negroponte founded MIT’s Architecture
Machine Group, a combination lab and think tank which
studied new approaches to human-computer interaction.
In 1985, Negroponte created the MIT Media Lab with
Jerome B. Wiesner. As director, he developed the lab into
the pre-eminent computer science laboratory for new
media and a high-tech playground for investigating the
human-computer interface. Negroponte also became a
proponent of intelligent agents and personalized electronic
newspapers, for which he popularized the term the Daily Me.
In 1992, Negroponte became involved in the creation
of Wired Magazine as the first investor. From 1993 to 1998,
he contributed a monthly column to the magazine in which
he reiterated a basic theme: “Move bits, not atoms.”
Negroponte expanded many of the ideas from his
Wired columns into a bestselling book Being Digital (1995),
which made famous his forecasts on how the interactive
world, the entertainment world and the information world
would eventually merge. Being Digital was a bestseller and
was translated into some twenty languages. Negroponte
is a digital optimist who believed that computers would
make life better for everyone. However, critics such as
Cass Sunstein have faulted his techno-utopian ideas for
failing to consider the historical, political and cultural
realities with which new technologies should be viewed.
Negroponte’s belief that wired technologies such
as telephones will ultimately become unwired by using
airwaves instead of wires or fiber optics, and that unwired
technologies such as televisions will become wired, is
commonly referred to as the Negroponte switch.

In 2000, Negroponte stepped down as director
of the Media Lab as Walter Bender took over as Executive
Director. However, Negroponte retained the role of laboratory
Chairman. When Frank Moss was appointed director of the lab
in 2006, Negroponte stepped down as lab chairman to focus
more fully on his work with One Laptop Per Child (OLPC)
although he retains his appointment as professor at MIT.

In November 2005, at the World Summit on the
Information Society held in Tunis, Negroponte unveiled the
concept of a $100 laptop computer, The Children’s Machine,
designed for students in the developing world. The price
has increased to US$180, however. The project is part of
a broader program by One Laptop Per Child, a non-profit
organisation started by Negroponte and other Media Lab
faculty, to extend Internet access in developing countries.

Negroponte is an active angel investor and has
invested in over 30 startup companies over the last 30 years,
including Zagats, Wired, Ambient Devices, Skype and Velti.
He sits on several boards, including Motorola (listed on the
New York Stock Exchange) and Velti (listed on the London
Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ). He is also on the advisory
board of TTI/Vanguard. In August 2007, he was appointed
to a five-member special committee with the objective of
assuring the continued journalistic and editorial integrity
and independence of the Wall Street Journal and other Dow
Jones & Company publications and services. The committee
was formed as part of the merger of Dow Jones with News
Corporation. Negroponte’s fellow founding committee
members are Louis Boccardi, Thomas Bray, Jack Fuller,
and the late former Congresswoman Jennifer Dunn.

Negroponte has influenced modern

day futurists, such as David Houle.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017551
