JAMES PATTERSON f

“Jordan. He wanted a massage. But I had to take off my
clothes. He climbed on top of me. It hurt. I started to bleed, and
it wouldn't stop. The doctor came.” |

“Dominique,” the cops say. “We're going to arrest this man. 4
But we need you to return to New York so you can testify.” i ¥

“Non,” says the girl. “Non! Jamais! Jamais!” |

For Epstein, there are other embarrassments, many of which
have to do with his royal friends. The wedding of Prince Wil-
liam and Kate Middleton is approaching, and the ongoing trou-
bles of Prince William’s uncle Prince Andrew keep threatening
to derail the festivities. On March 6, a spokesperson for Sarah
Ferguson confirms that Epstein paid off part of the seventy-eight
thousand pounds that the duchess borrowed from a man who
was once her personal assistant.

The next day, headlines appear in the Telegraph and other
British papers: DUKE OF YORK “APPEALED TO JEFFREY EPSTEIN TO HELP
DUCHESS PAY DEBT.” :

“] personally, on behalf of myself, deeply regret that Jeffrey q
Epstein became involved in any way with me,” Prince Andrew's q
ex-wife tells journalists. “I abhor paedophilia and any sexual 4
abuse of children and know that this was a gigantic error of 3
judgment on my behalf. 4 |

“| am just so contrite 1 cannot say. Whenever 1 can 1 will 7
repay the money and will have nothing ever to do with Jeffrey
Epstein ever again.” {

That week, as part of the ongoing civil lawsuits against
Epstein, Sarah Kellen and Nadia Marcinkova are both asked

about Prince Andrew’s relations with Epstein.

238

Fy

“Would you agree with
Epstein used to share under;
len is asked.

“On the instructions of
invoke my Fifth Amendment
“Have you ever been m:
Andrew?” lawyers ask Marci:
“Fifth” is Nadia’s simple,
That same week, the gover
tole as Great Britain’s royal t
tenacious, and in the Telegr

stories appear on a daily basi;

* The Duke, His Paedophi
Use of an RAF Base
¢ Andrew’s Secret Love Life
¢ Royal Connections: Princ
Suddenly the Talk of Nev
° Time to Show This Right
¢ An Odd Trio: The Royal
seuse and the Fixer
* No. 10 Struggles to Conta
° From Royal Asset to Nati:
° Royal Blush
¢ Duke Could Be Called to '
° It's the Company You Keep,
° Nothing Grand About Thi
* The Royal Family Has 1
Choice of Friends For Yea
* Our Less-Than-Grand Ole

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022045
