example, physicians may agree that the
experience of depression can be treated
legitimately by antidepressant
medications, referral to a psychiatrist, or
referral to a counselor whose practice is
rooted in a specific religious tradition.
Yet our research suggests that the
religious characteristics of physicians
strongly influence which of these
options they would recommend in a
given case’.

Controversies over a particular
medical intervention often represent
deeper unspoken disagreements that,
unfortunately, science cannot settle. For
example, controversies over the use of
stimulants to manage childhood behavior
disorders, or the medicalization of social
anxiety, seem to reflect disagreements
about more basic questions: What brings
human happiness? Which moods and
behaviors should be considered normal
parts of human experience and which
should be considered abnormal? What
sorts of suffering should we try to
alleviate? What leads to disordered
behaviors? What resources (social,
psychological, spiritual or otherwise) are
best suited to addressing disruptions in
individuals’ mental and emotional
states? How does modern medicine fit
into our response to these experiences?
Although physicians may not ask or
answer these questions explicitly, they
implicitly answer them in their responses
and recommendations to patients.

So, for all that is hoped for in
‘scientific’ and ‘evidence-based’
practice, clinicians must in the end act as
practical moral philosophers, making
judgments about how best to pursue the
goals of medicine for a particular patient
in a particular context, all things
considered. Among those things to be
considered are moral valuations about
which religions and other moral

143

Page

traditions have much to say, but about
which medical science remains silent.

Caring for the patient as person

So far I have suggested that
religions provide a vision that animates
care of the sick and a moral framework
that guides the application of medical
technology. Religions make another
contribution by fostering practices that
nurture the human capacity to care for
patients as persons rather than as mere
objects.

Patients commonly complain that
their physicians treat them as mere
objects or specimens rather than
appreciating and attending to them as
unique persons. This problem has always
plagued the profession. To learn how to
heal, the novice physician must learn of
patients as representing abstract general
types and classes. She must learn about
coronary artery disease and hematuria
before she can begin to interpret Mrs.
Smith’s chest discomfort and Mr.
Jones’s red urine. These abstractions
allow knowledge of when and how
things happen, and that knowledge
guides technological interventions that
may bring healing to the body. These
abstractions also help doctors objectify
their patients’ humanity enough to
violate social norms that operate in every
other social situation, such as asking
patients to expose their nakedness in
vulnerable positions, or cutting patients
apart in hopes of making them whole.

As long as the process does not
go too far, scientific detachment serves
to make our concern effective. Yet the
collective experience of both patients
and physicians suggests that such
detachment usually does go too far and
occurs too easily. As a result physicians
treat patients as mere objects and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021389
