122 Teaching Minds

evaluation verbally. Since children naturally copy their parents, it is
not that complicated to figure out where children acquire their initial
values. And, since values are not typically stated (my father never said
liquor at 5 p.m. is a good thing), it certainly isn’t through lectures that
we learn values. I learned to drink at 5 p.m. from my father. He wasn’t
trying to teach me that. I learned to gamble from my father. He wasn’t
trying to teach me that either. I learned to be argumentative from my
father. He wasn’t trying to teach that. I did not learn algebra from my
father. That, he was trying to teach me.

My son wanted to grow up and sip Pepsi. He told me this constant-
ly as he was growing up. It did not matter that I hadn’t drunk Pepsi for
10 years at the point when he was saying that. He was impressed that I
had done this when he was 3 and he was frustrated that I didn’t allow
him to drink it. Presto, another family value is learned.

Children learn the family values that their family actually has.
Teenage mothers who warn against getting pregnant at a young age
may say that in words, but their actions say that their kid is alive and
well and it all worked out.

So, it follows that we don’t have to consciously teach values be-
cause we teach them without saying a word. Values are held subcon-
sciously and learned subconsciously. We can only hope that we have
set a good example. That having been said, there will still be those
who ask how we can teach values. You can’t expect that “you can’t,”
will work as an answet.

I mentioned in Chapter 3 that there are lots of things that you
can’t teach. I mentioned honesty as an example. Honesty is, of course,
a value. Now let’s ask whether you can teach people to be more hon-
est than they are naturally inclined to be. The answer is that to do
this, you have to turn a subconscious process into a conscious one.
You would need to provide case after case and experience after experi-
ence to a student that all led to the conclusion that honesty simply
works out better in the long run. This is, of course, what abstinence
and say no to drugs campaigns endeavor to do. They want to argue
kids into believing that things they think are fun, are bad. But how
can we make that argument? The argument we can make is that these
things aren’t as much fun as you think, so try them and see for your-
self—but that kind of ruins the basic premise about not doing them
in the first place. So, in principle there is no way to argue kids into
not doing what looks like fun to them and what doesn’t seem to have

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023868
