congregants’ interior emotional world by
modeling the self on God, or on the self
as seen from God’s loving perspective.
One of the most important was prayer
ministry, where the person for whom the
prayer is given is often crying and in
visible pain; those around the person are
offering prayers which describe the ways
in which the sobbing person is loved by
God. Another was treating prayer like a
psychotherapy session. One congregant
explained: “It’s just like talking to a
therapist, especially in the beginning
when you’re revealing things that are
deep in your heart and deep in your soul,
the things that have been pushed down
and denied.” In these churches which
emphasize God’s love and intimacy, hell
and fear largely disappear.

The central demand of these
learning practices is to use one’s own
mental experience as evidence and
content for the responsive presence of
this God, who is believed to be other
than oneself, and to use pretend play to
integrate those mental events into a
representation that is persuasively
external to the self. The emotional
practices provide both direct evidence of
God’s love and, more generally,
evidence that participation in church is
satisfying and worthwhile. In effect the
process asks the congregants to carve
God out of their own experience and to
experience those phenomena as other;
and it uses the emotional practices taught
by the church and the social world of the
congregation to help them hold that God
separate and apart and lovingly
responsive.

This is hard work to do, and not
everyone was able to do it, or to do it
easily. Here two congregants describe
their difficulty in experiencing God
directly despite their efforts.

Page | 116

Jake: “I remember desperately wanting
to draw closer to God, and [to have] one
of these inspired Holy Spirit moments ...
I wanted those [experiences] and I
sought them out, but I never found
myself encountering them”

Irene: “I don’t understand the gift of
prophecy completely. I’ll probably
never will and I don’t have it and I don’t
want it because it would scare me.”

Here is another congregant who has been
able to do so:

Nora: “It was pretty early on in my
relationship with him. I was just all full
of myself one morning. I just had
wonderful devotions and worships and
just felt so close. I went out, and it was
the most god-awful day. It was icy rain
and gray and cold and it was sleeting.
I’m just full of the joy of the Lord, and I
say, “God, I praise you that it isn’t
snowing, and that nothing’s
accumulating, and that the streets aren’t
icy’—and then I went around the corner,
and I hit a patch of ice, and just about
went down. It was so funny to me. I just
burst out laughing out loud. It was just
so funny that he would put me in my
place in such a slapstick personal kind of
way. But then he just graced me the rest
of the morning. The bus showed up right
away, which it never does. I was
reading, and I missed my stop to get off,
and I heard God say, “Get off the bus.” I
looked up and hollered, and the bus
actually stopped, half a block on, to let
me get off. I just felt that intimacy all
morning. Like when you go from
holding a new boyfriend’s hand to
kissing him goodnight ....”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021362
