Base metals

Preference: neutral

Current (24 Oct) (last month): Copper USD 7,815/mt (8,271); Nickel USD 16,336/mt (18,351);
Aluminum USD 1,912/mt (2,079)

UBS View 6-month target: Copper: USD 8,800/mt; Nickel: USD 19,000/mt; Aluminum: USD 2,100/mt
e After the swift uptick in prices, base metals have been under renewed pressure. The initial price strength
—a simple catch up with Chinese prices triggered by a shift in demand expectations — is losing strength.
¢ In order to continue the price rally, a firm increase in final metal demand is needed. Since global
economic growth is far from seeing such a demand uptick in industrial activity during 4Q12, we think that
prices are likely to trade only sideways in the coming months before trending higher in 1Q13.
e Loose monetary policy is a good precondition for activity to pick up, but not a guarantee after so many
rounds of monetary stimulus. We therefore look east to China. Although industrial activity growth in China
is likely to bottom out, the upcoming leadership change in the country (November 2012 to March 2013),
will likely delay a bigger investment program into 1Q13. The latest stimulus program will probably prevent
Chinese IP from decelerating even further, but will not lift it meaningfully higher.
¢ Ona single commodity level, we favor copper and nickel. For nickel, short-term supply issues due to a
slower ramp up of new and existing projects have temporarily brought the market closer to balance than
initially expected. Furthermore, we should see higher Chinese stainless steel demand with stabilizing
housing activity and a demand pick up in stainless steel related products.
¢ With regards to copper, we expect import activity to remain strong, as seen in the import figures for
September. Overall, the copper market should remain undersupplied, which could widen if financial
demand is finding some store of value in the metal. We think this puts structurally low LME inventories at
risk and should push the metal price towards USD 8,800/mt or higher over six months.

4 Positive scenario

¢ China eases monetary policy aggressively, pushing credit growth to 20% y/y. In the US the Fed is able to
lift GDP growth via QE3 and the ECB puts an effective backstop to declining industrial activity.

St Negative scenario

¢ To passive Chinese authorities keep GDP growth on a constant deceleration path. A severe escalation of
the Eurozone crisis (room for a break-up) triggers a setback in investment activity - including in Germany.

What we're watching Why it matters

China's growth deceleration should come to an end. But hard economic activity

Genmand indicators, especially for China, have yet to catch up with the increase in prices.
Hence, the current base metal market is already reflecting considerable growth
goodwill that is in need of a demand confirmation by China, the US or Europe.
Copper output continues to undershoot market expectations and should be

Supply watched closely, as investment activity in mines increased sharply. For zinc,
prospects for mine closures have been delayed and should keep the market
oversupplied.

Economic data/forward Chinese economic data — trade data, CPI, IP and loan growth by financial

curve institutions. Key date: 10-15 Oct

2 UBS

Recommendations

Tactical (6 months)

e We reiterate that the strong uptick in
base metal prices is skating on thin ice, in
our view. Real activity has yet to follow
and support prices over a longer time
period. 50% of the upside potential on a
6-month horizon is likely to be behind us,
making only copper and nickel attractive,
with +10% expected return.

Strategic (2 years)

e Although the strongest performance
should be visible in zinc and lead, with
existing mine capacity expected to peak
in 2014/15, the recent price strength
makes such an investment unattractive
now, based on timing. Given a
structurally solid supply side, investors
should avoid aluminum and nickel. A
firmer supply side should also limit the
upside in copper.

Net speculative copper position at
Comex are far from being overstretched
80
60
40
20
0
(20)
(40)
(60)
(80)
Jan-93 Jan-96 Jan-99 Jan-02 Jan-05 Jan-08 Jan-11
mm Long positions Short positions — Net long position

In thousand contracts

Source: Bloomberg, UBS, as of Oct. 2012
Note: Past performance is not an indication of future returns.

For further information please contact ClO's asset class specialists Dominic Schnider, dominic.schnider@ubs.com or Giovanni Staunovo, giovanni.staunovo@ubs.com

Please see important disclaimer and disclosures at the end of the document.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025284
