Competitive Retail Rent Survey

1. TOWN SQUARE LAS VEGAS

Town Square Las Vegas contains a world-
class 902,335 square-foot regional lifestyle
center anchored by AMC Cinemas, Whole
Foods, H&M, Container Store, Gameworks,
Old Navy, Staples, Guitar Center and a
recently opened Saks Off Fifth Avenue. In
addition, Town Center Las Vegas includes
approximately 243,000 square feet of Class A
office space. The property is approximately
90% occupied with retail rents ranging from
$40 to $80 per square foot. Tenant sales
are reported to range from $400 to $600 per
square foot.

2. MANDALAY PLACE

Mandalay Place was completed in 2003 and
is comprised of a 90,000-square-foot un-
themed retail center that spans between
Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino and Luxor.
The property is currently 95% occupied with
rents ranging from $60 to $90 per square foot.
The center has an array of shops including
Nike Golf, Urban Outfitters and Fredrick’s
of Hollywood. Tenant sales are reported to
range from $500 to $600 per square foot.

3.CRYSTALS AT CITYCENTER

Opened in 2009, Crystals at CityCenter is
situated on a 67-acre site at the southwest
corner of Las Vegas Boulevard South and
Harmon Avenue. With over 425,000 square
feet of luxury and boutique shopping space,
Crystals is the retail anchor of CityCenter’s
first phase. A select list of world-class
retailers at Crystals includes Emilio Pucci,
DKNY, Stella McCartney, Assouline, Bally,
Bottega Cucinelli, Bulgari, Cartier, Christian
Dior, Ermenegildo Zegna, Fendi, Gucci,
Hermés, Ilori, Kiton, Louis Vuitton, Marni,
Mikimoto, Prada, Tiffany & Co., Versace,
and Yves Saint Laurent. Crystal’s mantra is
“Shopping.Dining.Nightlife,” and it offers
some of the Strip’s premier restaurants and
nightclubs including Mastro’s Ocean Club,
Wolfgang Puck, Beso Steakhouse, The Cup,
The Pods, Social House, Todd English P.U.B.,
and Eve the nightclub. Crystals at CityCenter
reported sales ranging from $900 to $1,500
per square foot with rental rates that range
from $90 to $120 per square foot.

4. MIRACLE MILE SHOPS

Miracle Mile Shops contains 489,671 square
feet and are located at the northeast corner
of Las Vegas Boulevard and Harmon Avenue.
After Forum Shops and Grand Canal, this
was the third major specialty retail project
to open on the Strip and is contained within
the Planet Hollywood Resort and Casino.
Miracle Mile Shops boasts a 1.2-mile retail/
entertainment complex with modernized
storefronts, people movers, a backlit-sidewalk
water feature, LED video screens, crystal
chandeliers and contemporary, color-coded
kiosks. The center features 170 specialty
stores including Urban Outfitters, Ben
Sherman, Quiksilver, bebe, Sephora, French
Connection, Betsy Johnson, Frederick's of
Hollywood, H&M and True Religion Brand
Jeans. The property supports 15 restaurants,
including Aromi D'Italia, Cabo Wabo Cantina,
Pampas Churrascaria Brazilian Grille, La
Salsa Cantina, Cheeseburger Las Vegas and
Blondies Sports Bar & Grill. Miracle Mile
Shops is currently 93% leased with tenant
sales levels ranging from $800 to $900 per
square foot with rents ranging from $65 to
$85 per square foot.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018799
