Hardwired for Hope?

I would have liked to tell you that my work on optimism grew out of
a keen interest in the positive side of human nature. The reality is that
I stumbled onto the brain's innate optimism by accident. After living
through Sept. 11, 2001, in New York City, I had set out to investigate
people's memories of the terrorist attacks. I was intrigued by the fact
that people felt their memories were as accurate as a videotape, while
often they were filled with errors. A survey conducted around the
country showed that 11 months after the attacks, individuals'
recollections of their experience that day were consistent with their
initial accounts (given in September 2011) only 63% of the time.
They were also poor at remembering details of the event, such as the
names of the airline carriers. Where did these mistakes in memory
come from?

Scientists who study memory proposed an intriguing answer:
memories are susceptible to inaccuracies partly because the neural
system responsible for remembering episodes from our past might not
have evolved for memory alone. Rather, the core function of the
memory system could in fact be to imagine the future — to enable us
to prepare for what has yet to come. The system is not designed to
perfectly replay past events, the researchers claimed. It is designed to
flexibly construct future scenarios in our minds. As a result, memory
also ends up being a reconstructive process, and occasionally, details
are deleted and others inserted. To test this, I decided to record the
brain activity of volunteers while they imagined future events — not
events on the scale of 9/11, but events in their everyday lives — and
compare those results with the pattern I observed when the same
individuals recalled past events. But something unexpected occurred.
Once people started imagining the future, even the most banal life
events seemed to take a dramatic turn for the better. Mundane scenes
brightened with upbeat details as if polished by a Hollywood script

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030285
