behavior, and shit the president says, told in a knowing, deadpan style. Beyond
acknowledging that Trump was a boy from Queens yet in awe of the 7imes, nobody in the
West Wing could explain why he and Hicks would so often turn to Haberman for what
would so reliably be a mocking and hurtful portrayal. There was some feeling that Trump
was returning to scenes of past success: the 7imes might be against him, but Haberman
had worked at the New York Post for many years. “She’s very professional,” Conway said,
speaking in defense of the president and trying to justify Haberman’s extraordinary access.
But however intent he remained on getting good ink in the Zimes, the president saw
Haberman as “mean and horrible.” And yet, on a near-weekly basis, he and Hicks plotted
when next to have the Zimes come in.

OOK Ok

Kushner had his personal press operation and Bannon had his. The leaking culture had
become so open and overt—most of the time everybody could identify everybody else’s
leaks—that it was now formally staffed.

Kushner’s Office of American Innovation employed, as its spokesperson, Josh Raffel,
who, like Hicks, came out of Matthew Hiltzik’s PR shop. Raffel, a Democrat who had
been working in Hollywood, acted as Kushner and his wife’s personal rep—not least of all
because the couple felt that Spicer, owing his allegiance to Priebus, was not aggressively
representing them. This was explicit. “Josh is Jared’s Hope,” was his internal West Wing
job description.

Raffel coordinated all of Kushner and Ivanka’s personal press, though there was more
of this for Ivanka than for Kushner. But, more importantly, Raffel coordinated all of
Kushner’s substantial leaking, or, as it were, his off-the-record briefings and guidance—no
small part of it against Bannon. Kushner, who with great conviction asserted that he never
leaked, in part justified his press operation as a defense against Bannon’s press operation.

Bannon’s “person,” Alexandra Preate—a witty conservative socialite partial to
champagne—had previously represented Breitbart News and other conservative figures
like CNBC’s Larry Kudlow, and was close friends with Rebekah Mercer. In a relationship
that nobody seemed quite able to explain, she handled all of Bannon’s press “outreach”
but was not employed by the White House, although she maintained an office, or at least
an officelike presence, there. The point was clear: her client was Bannon and not the
Trump administration.

Bannon, to Jared and Ivanka’s continued alarm, had unique access to Breitbart’s
significant abilities to change the right-wing mood and focus. Bannon insisted he had cut
his ties to his former colleagues at Breitbart, but that strained everybody’s credulity—and
everybody figured nobody was supposed to believe it. Rather, everybody was supposed to
fear it.

There was, curiously, general agreement in the West Wing that Donald Trump, the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020039
