attieO18 Case 1:19-t- 036 Frio boca mierrrctesed PeerO4)/ POfPO! | Peaigwasi fingon

Letters

Letter to the Editor: Article
Misrepresented Dershowitz

fyvyZaem

2

By Alan M. Dershowitz
Alan M. Dershowitz is a Professor of Law emeritus at Harvard Law School.

December 5, 2018
To the editor,

The Crimson story regarding Jeffrey Epstein omitted the central point I made in my interview
with the reporter. I welcome an investigation by Harvard or any other institution, including
prosecutors, into the wilfully false charges made by Virginia Roberts for financial gain. Omitting
this crucial statement is irresponsible and unethical journalism.

Virginia Roberts leveled her false accusations four years ago. At the time, I disproved them
categorically. The matter was put to rest, with even her lawyers admitting that it was a mistake
and wrong. Then four years later the Miami Herald recycled this false accusation and The
Crimson reported on the Herald’s recycled report. I wrote a letter to the editor of the Herald
pointing to the incontrovertible evidence that Roberts made up the accusation out of whole

cloth in order to obtain millions of dollars from Leslie Wexner.

I was able to disprove Roberts’ false accusation by producing all of my travel, AmEx, and TV
appearance records which showed where I was, and, more importantly, where I wasn’t during
the entire period Virginia Roberts was in contact with Jeffrey Epstein. These records prove
incontrovertibly that I could not have been, and was not, where Roberts’ falsely claimed to have
met me — a Caribbean Island, a New Mexico Ranch, a private jet, a Palm Beach mansion —

during the relevant time period.

I also called for an independent investigation by the former Director of the F.B.I., a highly
respected former federal judge and assistant U.S. attorney. He reviewed all of the records and
other evidence and concluded that “the totality of the evidence ... refutes the allegations.”

httns:/Awww thecrimson com/article/2018/12/5/letter-dershowit7-misrenresention/ 1/9

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017790
