What Are Management's Other Obligations?

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

In 2002, in response to a series of accounting scandals
involving US. companies, Congress enacted the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act (Sarbanes-Oxley or SOX), which strength-
ened the accounting requirements for issuers. All issuers
must comply with Sarbanes-Oxley’s requirements, several

of which have FCPA implications.

SOX Section 302 (15 U.S.C. § 7241)—Responsibility
of Corporate Officers for the Accuracy and Validity of
Corporate Financial Reports

Section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley requires that a com-
pany’s “principal officers” (typically the Chief Executive
Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO)) take
responsibility for and certify the integrity of their compa-
ny’s financial reports on a quarterly basis. Under Exchange
Act Rule 13a-14, which is commonly called the “SOX cer-
tification” rule, each periodic report filed by an issuer must
include a certification signed by the issuet’s principal execu-
tive officer and principal financial officer that, among other
things, states that: (i) based on the officer’s knowledge, the
report contains no material misstatements or omissions;
(ii) based on the officer’s knowledge, the relevant financial
statements are accurate in all material respects; (iii) inter-
nal controls are properly designed; and (iv) the certifying
officers have disclosed to the issuer’s audit committee and

auditors all significant internal control deficiencies.

SOX Section 404 (15 U.S.C. § 7262)—Reporting
on the State of a Company's Internal Controls over
Financial Reporting

Sarbanes-Oxley also strengthened a company’s
required disclosures concerning the state of its internal con-
trol over financial reporting. Under Section 404, issuers are
required to present in their annual reports management’s
conclusion regarding the effectiveness of the company’s
internal controls over financial reporting. This statement
must also assess the effectiveness of such internal controls

and procedures. In addition, the company’s independent

The FCPA:

Accounting Provisions

auditor must attest to and report on its assessment of the
effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over finan-
cial reporting.

As directed by Section 404, SEC has adopted
rules requiring issuers and their independent auditors to
report to the public on the effectiveness of the compa-
ny’s internal controls over financial reporting.*“! These
internal controls include those related to illegal acts and
fraud—including acts of bribery—that could result in a
material misstatement of the company’s financial state-
ments.” In 2007, SEC issued guidance on controls over

financial reporting.**

SOX Section 802 (18 U.S.C. §§ 1519 and 1520)—
Criminal Penalties for Altering Documents

Section 802 of Sarbanes-Oxley prohibits altering,
destroying, mutilating, concealing, or falsifying records,
documents, or tangible objects with the intent to obstruct,
impede, or influence a potential or actual federal investiga-
tion. This section also prohibits any accountant from know-
ingly and willfully violating the requirement that all audit

or review papers be maintained for a period of five years.

Who Is Covered by the Accounting
Provisions?

Civil Liability for Issuers, Subsidiaries, and Affiliates

The FCPA’s accounting provisions apply to every
issuer that has a class of securities registered pursuant to
Section 12 of the Exchange Act or that is required to file
annual or other periodic reports pursuant to Section 15(d)
of the Exchange Act. These provisions apply to any issuer
whose securities trade on a national securities exchange in
the United States, including foreign issuers with exchange-

traded American Depository Receipts.” They also apply

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022544

