THE QUESTION ON ALL OF OUR MINDS: WHAT
IMPACT WILL THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
HAVE ON THE HEDGE FUND INDUSTRY?

BY RON S. GEFFNER AND YEHUDA BRAUNSTEIN

Reprinted with permission of Hedgeweek

With the Trump administration in the White House,
regulatory uncertainty permeates the financial
services industry. While many on Wall Street are
very excited by the Trump presidency, others are
approaching this new era with trepidation. Presi-
dent Trump is unpredictable in many ways, and the
industry eagerly awaits his actions hoping that the
financial markets do not respond negatively and
create chaos in the global marketplace.

While we should expect that the Trump administration
will aim to cut back financial regulation implemented
during the last eight years, it is unrealistic to expect
that these laws will be eliminated in their entirety.
Though the financial markets have been extremely
volatile of late and react very swiftly upon the
announcement of any meaningful global news, vari-
ous aspects of recent financial regulation have been
positive for the industry. For example, the requirement
for many investment advisers to register with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), one
of the requirements of The Dodd—Frank Wall Street
Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd Frank”)
which was signed into federal law by President
Obama to be effective as of July 21, 2010, in retro-
spect, has been viewed as a positive change within
the industry. Understandably, when initially intro-
duced in 2010, many asset managers located within
the United States and abroad that were required to
register as investment advisers with the SEC as a
result of Dodd-Frank were opposed to the changes.
However, many advisers, investors and regulators
now agree that requiring a larger number of advisers
to be accountable to higher regulatory standards has
created an environment where investors and coun-
terparties have more confidence in the oversight of
those managers and the industry as a whole.

It is also important to remember that any time
the government or a regulator changes the laws,
rules or regulations, those businesses affected
incur capital and opportunity costs in connection
with analyzing the changes in law and implement-
ing operational changes to comply with the new

laws. For example, when Dodd-Frank was origi-
nally enacted, at the time of registration, those
investment advisers that were required to register
as advisers with the SEC were required to adopt
written policies and procedures and invested capi-
tal into their operations and technology to support
compliance. Therefore, we expect that caution will
be exercised before significant change is made to
avoid the various costs associated with imple-
menting change. A case in point is the new DOL
Rule (discussed earlier in this newsletter), origi-
nally set to take effect on April 10, 2017. Invest-
ment advisers impacted by the DOL Rule, have
already been forced to analyze the DOL Rule and
its impact on their businesses, and some advisers
have already begun to implement changes to their
operations and procedures. The DOL Rule has been
the subject of much debate. While some industry
experts believe that the DOL Rule is onerous and
materially increases the costs associated with
providing services to clients, supporters of the
DOL Rule believe that it is necessary to protect
investors against brokers who are unnecessarily
selling high-fee investments to their clients. On
February 3, 2017, President Trump signed a memo-
randum to delay the DOL Rule by six (6)-months.
On March 1, 2017, the DOL issued a proposed
rule, which will extend the applicability date of its
fiduciary rule, including the Best Interest Contract
Exemption, from April 10, 2017 to June 9, 2017, a
60-day delay. If the DOL Rule is ultimately modi-
fied or even eliminated, some advisers may have to
reverse their recently-implemented changes.

In conclusion, we do not believe that regulations
in the financial industry will be eliminated in their
entirety. For example, if the requirement to register
as an investment adviser with the SEC is materially
modified or no longer required, we expect that many
investment advisers would maintain their registra-
tion as it is perceived to be a competitive advantage
compared to those managers that are not registered.
While we expect the Trump administration to improve
the financial services industry by having more bal-

anced regulations, we believe that this administration
will quickly realize that there are a lot of reasonable
and sensible regulations currently in place that are
working well, and that eliminating rules wholesale
can create chaos in the financial markets and may
come at a high price to their constituents.

Ron S. Geffner is a Partner and
Head of the Financial Services
Group of Sadis & Goldberg LLP. He
regularly structures, organizes and
counsels private investment vehicles,
investment advisory organizations,
broker-dealers, commodity pool operators and other
investment fiduciaries. Mr. Geffner also routinely counsels
clients in connection with regulatory investigations and
actions. His broad background with federal and state
secutities laws and the rules, regulations and customary
practices of the SEC, Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, Commodity Futures Trading Commission and
various other regulatory bodies enables him to provide
strategic guidance to a diverse clientele. He provides
legal services to hundreds of hedge funds, private
equity funds and venture capital funds organized in
the United States and offshore. Ron can be reached at
212.573.6660, or at rgeffner@sglawyers.com.

Yehuda M. Braunstein heads up
the Family Office practice and is
also a member of the firm’s Financial
Services and Corporate Groups. Mr.
Braunstein counsels family office cli-
ents in connection with all aspects of
their operations, including formation issues, governance
and compensation issues, transactional and day-to-day
matters, as well as compliance issues. Mr. Braunstein’s
practice also focuses on investment funds, securities,
joint ventures and investment advisers. He regularly
structures and organizes hedge funds, private equity
funds (including real estate, distressed and lending
funds), funds of funds, separately managed accounts
and hybrid funds. Additionally, he advises private fund
managers on structure, compensation, employment and
investor issues, and other matters relating to manage-
ment companies. Mr. Braunstein also structures and
negotiates seed investments and operating agreements.
He provides ongoing advice to investment advisers on
securities law issues, including SEC filings. His practice
also involves counseling clients in SEC regulatory mat-
ters, including compliance issues related to registered
advisers, as well as conducting mock audits. Yehuda
can be reached at 212.573.8029, or ybraunstein@
sglawyers.com.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019860
