4.2.12
WC: 191694

The Zionism-Racism resolution was followed by a deluge of anti-Israel sentiment in the General
Assembly, the Security Council, and the UN Council on Human Rights. At the 1978 session,
“several speakers drew a parallel between Zionism and apartheid,” insisting that “those selective
and racist regimes should be outlawed by the international community.” In 1979, after the
Cambodian genocide was already completed but before any major UN body condemned the
genocide, there were more comparisons between Zionism and apartheid, with some delegates
drawing a parallel “between Nazi policies against the Jews and Israeli brutalities against the
people of Palestine.”

When the General Assembly itself finally addressed the Cambodian genocide in a resolution, it did
so in tepid terms compared to its treatment of Israel. The General Assembly simply noted “with
great concern that the armed conflict in Kampuchea [Cambodia] and is seriously threatening the
peace and stability of South-East Asia.” In contrast, a resolution passed that same year “deplores
the continued and persistent violation by Israel of the Geneva Convention relative to the
Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, and other applicable
international instruments, and condemns in particular those violations which that Convention
designates as ‘grave breaches’ thereof.”

True to form, Chomsky related Cambodia to Israel, inverting the actual seriousness of the human
rights violations and asserting that “condemnation of Cambodian atrocities, covering the full
spectrum with the exception of some Maoist groups, had reached a level and scale that has rarely
been matched, whereas the situation of the Arabs under Israeli occupation (or indeed, in Israel
itself) is virtually a taboo topic in the United States.”

The Zionism-racism resolution was ultimately rescinded in 1991 by a vote of the General
Assembly, but it continued to animate U.N. actions, especially by the “Human Rights Council” of
the U.N. (previously known as the UN Commission on Human Rights), which in 2001 convened
the first of several “Durban Conferences” against “racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and
related intolerance.” Its primary, if not exclusive, focus was on Israel. It virtually ignored racial
genocides, slavery and other obvious manifestations of racism and discrimination. The final
preparatory session was held in Tehran. All Israelis and all Jewish NGO’s were excluded.

According to Irwin Cotler, the former Attorney General of Canada, who attended the conference,
the air was filled with hate speech such as “too bad the Holocaust was not completed.” The
conference became a “festival of hate such that we had not experienced anywhere at any time
before.” It was “a state sanctioned culture of hate” which, to Cotler, “is the most dangerous
form of anti-Semitism that we are witnessing in the 21* Century.” And all of this was done under
the Aegis of the U.N.! Even the U.N. High Commissioner for human rights—Mary Robinson, no
friend of Israel—was appalled at what she was witnessing. The Arab Lawyers’ Union distributed
a booklet of anti-Semitic cartoons that could have been published by Der Sturmer. The Jerusalem
Post reported Robinson’s reaction:

“Waving a book of anti-Semitic cartoons distributed at the anti-racism conference in
Durban, UN High Commissioner Mary Robinson - in a dramatic act of identification with

338

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017425
