Disclaimer

UBS CIO WM Research is published by Wealth Management & Swiss Bank and Wealth Management Americas, Business Divisions of UBS AG (UBS) or an affiliate thereof. In certain countries UBS AG is referred to as UBS SA. This publication is
for your information only and is not intended as an offer, or a solicitation of an offer, to buy or sell any investment or other specific product. The analysis contained herein is based on numerous assumptions. Different assumptions could result
in materially different results. Certain services and products are subject to legal restrictions and cannot be offered worldwide on an unrestricted basis and/or may not be eligible for sale to all investors. All information and opinions expressed in
this document were obtained from sources believed to be reliable and in good faith, but no representation or warranty, express or implied, is made as to its accuracy or completeness (other than disclosures relating to UBS and its affiliates).
All information and opinions as well as any prices indicated are current as of the date of this report, and are subject to change without notice. Opinions expressed herein may differ or be contrary to those expressed by other business areas or
divisions of UBS as a result of using different assumptions and/or criteria. At any time UBS AG and other companies in the UBS group (or employees thereof) may have a long or short position, or deal as principal or agent, in relevant securities
or provide advisory or other services to the issuer of relevant securities or to a company connected with an issuer. Some investments may not be readily realizable since the market in the securities is illiquid and therefore valuing the
investment and identifying the risk to which you are exposed may be difficult to quantify. UBS relies on information barriers to control the flow of information contained in one or more areas within UBS, into other areas, units, divisions or
affiliates of UBS. Futures and options trading is considered risky. Past performance of an investment is no guarantee for its future performance. Some investments may be subject to sudden and large falls in value and on realization you may
receive back less than you invested or may be required to pay more. Changes in FX rates may have an adverse effect on the price, value or income of an investment. We are of necessity unable to take into account the particular investment
objectives, financial situation and needs of our individual clients and we would recommend that you take financial and/or tax advice as to the implications (including tax) of investing in any of the products mentioned herein. This document
may not be reproduced or copies circulated without prior authority of UBS or a subsidiary of UBS. UBS expressly prohibits the distribution and transfer of this document to third parties for any reason. UBS will not be liable for any claims or
lawsuits from any third parties arising from the use or distribution of this document. This report is for distribution only under such circumstances as may be permitted by applicable law. In developing the Chief Investment Office economic
forecasts, ClO economists worked in collaboration with economists employed by UBS Investment Research. Forecasts and estimates are current only as of the date of this publication and may change without notice.

External Asset Managers / External Financial Consultants: In case this research or publication is provided to an External Asset Manager or an External Financial Consultant, UBS expressly prohibits that it is redistributed by the External
Asset Manager or the External Financial Consultant and is made available to their clients and/or third parties. Australia: 1) Clients of UBS Wealth Management Australia Ltd: This notice is distributed to clients of UBS Wealth Managemen
Australia Ltd ABN 50 005 311 937 (Holder of Australian Financial Services Licence No. 231127), Chifley Tower, 2 Chifley Square, Sydney, New South Wales, NSW 2000, by UBS Wealth Management Australia Ltd.: This Document contains
general information and/or general advice only and does not constitute personal financial product advice. As such the content of the Document was prepared without taking into account the objectives, financial situation or needs of any
specific recipient. Prior to making any investment decision, a recipient should obtain personal financial product advice from an independent adviser and consider any relevant offer documents (including any product disclosure statement)
where the acquisition of financial products is being considered. 2) Clients of UBS AG: This notice is issued by UBS AG ABN 47 088 129 613 (Holder of Australian Financial Services Licence No 231087): This Document is issued and distributed
by UBS AG. This is the case despite anything to the contrary in the Document. The Document is intended for use only by “Wholesale Clients” as defined in section 761G (“Wholesale Clients”) of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth)
(“Corporations Act”). In no circumstances may the Document be made available by UBS AG to a “Retail Client” as defined in section 761G of the Corporations Act. UBS AG's research services are only available to Wholesale Clients. The
Document is general information only and does not take into account any person’s investment objectives, financial and taxation situation or particular needs. Austria: This publication is not intended to constitute a public offer or a
comparable solicitation under Austrian law and will only be used under circumstances which will not be equivalent to a public offering of securities in Austria. The document may only be used by the direct recipient of this information and
may under no circumstances be passed on to any other investor. Bahamas: This publication is distributed to private clients of UBS (Bahamas) Ltd and is not intended for distribution to persons designated as a Bahamian citizen or residen
under the Bahamas Exchange Control Regulations. Bahrain: UBS AG is a Swiss bank not licensed, supervised or regulated in Bahrain by the Central Bank of Bahrain and does not undertake banking or investment business activities in Bahrain.
Therefore, Clients have no protection under local banking and investment services laws and regulations. Belgium: This publication is not intended to constitute a public offering or a comparable solicitation under Belgian law, but might be
made available for information purposes to clients of UBS Belgium NV/SA, a regulated bank under the “Commission Bancaire, Financiére et des Assurances, to which this publication has not been submitted for approval. Canada: In Canada,
this publication is distributed to clients of UBS Wealth Management Canada by UBS Investment Management Canada Inc.. Dubai: Research is issued by UBS AG Dubai Branch within the DIFC, is intended for professional clients only and is no
for onward distribution within the United Arab Emirates. France: This publication is distributed by UBS (France) S.A., French société anonyme with share capital of € 125.726.944, 69, boulevard Haussmann F-75008 Paris, R.C.S. Paris B 42
255 670, to its clients and prospects. UBS (France) S.A. is a provider of investment services duly authorized according to the terms of the “Code Monétaire et Financier, regulated by French banking and financial authorities as the “Banque
de France and the “Autorité des Marchés Financiers. Germany: The issuer under German Law is UBS Deutschland AG, Bockenheimer Landstrasse 2-4, 60306 Frankfurt am Main. UBS Deutschland AG is authorized and regulated by the
“Bundesanstalt flr Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht. Hong Kong: This publication is distributed to clients of UBS AG Hong Kong Branch by UBS AG Hong Kong Branch, a licensed bank under the Hong Kong Banking Ordinance and a registered
institution under the Securities and Futures Ordinance. Indonesia: This research or publication is not intended and not prepared for purposes of public offering of securities under the Indonesian Capital Market Law and its implementing
regulations. Securities mentioned in this material have not been, and will not be, registered under the Indonesian Capital Market Law and Regulations. Italy: This publication is distributed to the clients of UBS (Italia) S.p.A., via del vecchio
politecnico 3, Milano, an Italian bank duly authorized by Bank of Italy to the provision of financial services and supervised by “Consob and Bank of Italy. UBS Italia has not participated in the production of the publication and of the research
on investments and financial analysis herein contained. Jersey: UBS AG, Jersey Branch, is regulated and authorized by the Jersey Financial Services Commission for the conduct of banking, funds and investment business. Luxembourg: This
publication is not intended to constitute a public offer under Luxembourg law, but might be made available for information purposes to clients of UBS (Luxembourg) S.A., a regulated bank under the supervision of the “Commission de
Surveillance du Secteur Financier (CSSF), to which this publication has not been submitted for approval. Mexico: This document has been distributed by UBS Asesores México, S.A. de C.V., a company which is not subject to supervision by
the National Banking and Securities Commission of Mexico and is not part of UBS Grupo Financiero, S.A. de C.V. or of any other Mexican financial group and whose obligations are not guaranteed by any third party. UBS Asesores México,
S.A. de C.V. does not guarantee any yield whatsoever. Singapore: Please contact UBS AG Singapore branch, an exempt financial adviser under the Singapore Financial Advisers Act (Cap. 110) and a wholesale bank licensed under the
Singapore Banking Act (Cap. 19) regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore, in respect of any matters arising from, or in connection with, the analysis or report. Spain: This publication is distributed to clients of UBS Bank, S.A. by UBS
Bank, S.A., a bank registered with the Bank of Spain. UAE: This research report is not intended to constitute an offer, sale or delivery of shares or other securities under the laws of the United Arab Emirates (UAE). The contents of this report
have not been and will not be approved by any authority in the United Arab Emirates including the UAE Central Bank or Dubai Financial Authorities, the Emirates Securities and Commodities Authority, the Dubai Financial Market, the Abu
Dhabi Securities market or any other UAE exchange. UK: Approved by UBS AG, authorized and regulated in the UK by the Financial Services Authority. A member of the London Stock Exchange. This publication is distributed to private clients
of UBS London in the UK. Where products or services are provided from outside the UK, they will not be covered by the UK regulatory regime or the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. USA: This document is not intended for
distribution into the US and / or to US persons. UBS Securities LLC is a subsidiary of UBS AG and an affiliate of UBS Financial Services Inc., UBS Financial Services Inc. is a subsidiary of UBS AG.

Version 10/2012.

© UBS 2012. The key symbol and UBS are among the registered and unregistered trademarks of UBS. All rights reserved.

2 UBS .

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025290
