BREAKING DOWN DEMOCRACY: Goals, Strategies, and Methods of Modern Authoritarians

continue their investigation of these techniques and
experiment with ways to combat them.

We also urge more intense coverage of Beijing's efforts
to undermine democratic norms in neighboring states
or territories, as in Hong Kong and Taiwan, and its
largely successful attempts to pressure other govern-
ments into repatriating citizens who had fled persecu-
tion in China.

Lastly, the media are not doing their job if they neglect
to give aggressive coverage to the lobbyists and pub-
lic-relations specialists who make money by repre-
senting dictators and kleptocrats. Those who flack for
the leaders of China, Azerbaijan, Egypt, and their ilk
should be made to answer for each political prisoner,
murdered opposition figure, shuttered newspaper, and
offshore account full of stolen funds that can be tied
to their authoritarian clients.

To the academic community: We urge academic
associations, individual scholars, and university
administrations to stand up for freedom of thought
and open inquiry at a time when those values are
under relentless pressure from dictatorships. We

urge statements of protest against the persecution of
fellow scholars or the politicized rewriting of history,
especially in countries, like Russia and China, that are
integrated into the international university system.
We urge universities to reject the establishment of
projects and study departments—whether at home or
overseas—that do not adhere to the highest stan-
dards of intellectual freedom or that restrict discus-
sion of certain subjects.

To the business community: We urge private busi-
nesses to avoid commercial relationships with
authoritarian governments that force them to violate
fundamental democratic principles. Private compa-
nies and investors have a clear interest in democratic
public goods like the rule of law, which guarantees
their property rights, and the transparency provid-

ed by free media and corruption watchdogs, which
ensures the accuracy of economic data and the fair
allocation of state contracts. They should therefore do
what they can to prevent any further deterioration in
the condition of global democracy.

Some sectors are especially vulnerable to authoritarian
pressure, and have a special role to play in combating it.
We urge the film industry to reject involvement in joint
ventures with companies that have close ties to au-
thoritarian regimes and reputations for demanding po-

liticized censorship of artistic content. We also urge the
technology industry to refuse business arrangements
that require active complicity in or passive acceptance
of political censorship or information control.

To the European Union: We urge the EU to undertake
a comprehensive review of member states’ democrat-
ic institutions to determine whether recent changes
have weakened checks and balances or unduly
protected incumbent parties from fair electoral com-
petition. The EU should adopt measures to publicize
departures from democratic standards and develop

a new set of sanctions that could be imposed on
noncompliant governments—whether inside, outside,
or hoping to join the bloc—even in the absence of
unanimity among member states. In the meantime,
the EU should use the sanctions already in place, even
if it means freezing a member state's participation,
and be prepared to actually impose any new sanctions
that might be introduced.

To private foundations: We urge private foundations
to recognize and oppose the current assault on
democracy. With a few exceptions, the great institu-
tions of American philanthropy have studiously—and
shamefully—ignored the steady erosion of global free-
dom and the rise of authoritarian powers. The recent
developments in Europe and the United States will
hopefully shake their complacency. There is a strong
need for analysis, support for individual dissidents,
and aid for societies under authoritarian threat, and as
many democratic governments waver in their com-
mitment to such priorities, it is essential for private
funders to step into the breach.

To mainstream political candidates: We urge re-
sponsible political figures to call out colleagues or
rivals when they show contempt for basic democratic
ideas. Until now, politicians in the democracies have
been unimpressive in their responses to opponents
who embrace authoritarian figures like Putin. This

is despite the overwhelming evidence of egregious
crimes under Putin’ rule: murdered journalists and
political opposition leaders, the invasion of neighbor-
ing states, brutish counterinsurgency campaigns in
the North Caucasus, the emasculation of a once-vi-
brant media sector, rigged elections, and much more.
If they choose to shower him with praise, political
leaders like Marine Le Pen, Geert Wilders, and Donald
Trump should be forced to account for the realities of
Putin's appalling record. The same is true for any politi-
cian who praises dictators in the Middle East, Asia, or
Africa.

60

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019294
