and Mr Epstein.

3. Ms Maxwell kept sex toys and costumes in the Palm Beach mansion and dressed J prior to sex
sessions with Mr Epstein. S Maxwell herself wore black vinyl during sex sessions with Mr Epstein.

4. | | was paid between US $200 and $ 5000 US sex, depending on whether it involved travel and other
men.

sO was required to have sex with friends of Ms Maxwell and Mr Epstein, including Glenn Dubin, Les
Wexner, Ehud Barak, former Senator George Mitchell and Stephen Kosslyn.

6. Ms Maxwell introduced Virginia to Prince Andrew in 2001 at Ms Maxwell's London house where gi
had sex with him. subsequently was directed to meet him at Mr Epstein's New York house where Ms
Maxwell directed to sit on Andrew's knee with EM Andrew groped both girls. Ms
Maxwell directed after this to have sex with Andrew.

Ms Maxwell and Mr Epstein subsequently travelled with [to Little St James where she was directed
to stage an orgy for Andrew and Mr Epstein during which she performed oral sex on
them.

7. P| was paid extra by Mr Epstein or his employees for these sexual encounters.
8. Ms Maxwell knew, s age and laughed about it when she introduced her to Andrew.
9. Ms Maxwell and Mr Epstein tried to persuadelaa to bear his child.

10. After sexual encounters with male friends of Mr Epstein and/or Ms Maxwell, Ms Maxwell and Mr Epstein
would ask J explicit questions about what went on.

11. Mr_Epstein’s residences in Florida and New York had surveillance cameras that taped the sex sessions and
taped even in the bathroom.

12. Ms Maxwell and Mr Epstein arranged for Ehud Barak to have sex with several girls, often at Mr Epstein's
Palm Beach house.

13. Ms Maxwell piloted President Bill Clinton in a helicopter to a dinner on Little St James where two brunettes
Ms Maxwell, a and Mr Epstein were at the table.

14. Mr Epstein bought Ms Maxwell the helicopter, homes in New York and London and a Mercedes.

------ End of Forwarded Message

Oh 2g 24s aie 2s 2k ois 2g 24s oie 2s of ois fe aie oie fs oie ais fe aie oie of ois safe of fe of ois fe aie of fe ois ois ais aie oie of of ois aie oie ois of ok 2 aie ofc of oft ok oie 2 of 2 ok ok
The information contained in this communication is

confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may

constitute inside information, and is intended only for

the use of the addressee. It is the property of

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023060
