Don’t manufacture product in large quantities to increase margin unless your product and marketing are
tested and ready for rollout without changes. If a limited number of prototypes cost $10 per piece to
manufacture and sell for $11 each, that’s fine for the initial testing period, and essential for limiting
downside. Sacrifice margin temporarily for the testing phase, if need be, and avoid potentially fatal
upfront overcommitments.

8. Negotiate Late— Make Others Negotiate Against Themselves

Never make a first offer when purchasing. Flinch after the first offer (“$3,000!” followed by pure silence,
which uncomfortable salespeople fill by dropping the price once), let people negotiate against themselves
(“Is that really the best you can offer?” elicits at least one additional drop in price), then “bracket.” If
they end up at $2,000 and you want to pay $1,500, offer $1,250. They’ll counter with approximately
$1,750, to which you respond: “I'll tell you what—let’s just split the difference. I'll overnight FedEx you
a check, and we can call it a day.” The end result? Exactly what you wanted: $1,500.

9. Hyperactivity vs. Productivity — 80/20 and Pareto’s Law

Being busy is not the same as being productive. Forget about the start-up overwork ethic that people
wear as a badge of honor— get analytical. The 80/20 principle, also known as Pareto’s Law, dictates that
80% of your desired outcomes are the result of 20% of your activities or inputs. Once per week, stop
putting out fires for an afternoon and run the numbers to ensure you’re placing effort in high-yield areas:
What 20% of customers/products/ regions are producing 80% of the profit?) What are the factors that
could account for this? Invest in duplicating your few strong areas instead of fixing all of your
weaknesses.

10. The Customer Is Not Always Right—‘‘Fire” High-Maintenance Customers

Not all customers are created equal. Apply the 80/20 principle to time consumption: What 20% of people
are consuming 80% of your time? Put high-maintenance, low-profit customers on autopilot— process
orders but don’t pursue them or check up on them—and “fire” high-maintenance, high-profit customers
by sending a memo detailing how a change in business model requires a few new policies: how often and
how to communicate, standardized pricing and order process, etc. Indicate that, for those clients whose
needs are incompatible with these new policies, you are happy to introduce other providers. “But what if
my largest customer consumes all of my time?” Recognize that (1) without time, you cannot scale your
company (and, oftentimes, life) beyond that customer, and (2) people, even good people, will
unknowingly abuse your time to the extent that you let them. Set good rules for all involved to minimize
back-and-forth and meaningless communication.

11. Deadlines Over Details—Test Reliability Before Capability

Skills are overrated. Perfect products delivered past deadline kill companies faster than decent products
delivered on time. Test someone’s ability to deliver on a specific and tight deadline before hiring them
based on a dazzling portfolio. Products can be fixed as long as you have cash flow, and bugs are
forgiven, but missing deadlines is often fatal. Calvin Coolidge once said that nothing is more common
than unsuccessful men with talent; I would add that the second most common is smart people who think
their IQ or resume justifies delivering late. —JUNE 24, 2008

The Holy Grail: How to Outsource the Inbox and Never Check E-

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014005
