THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA

PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)

glass

http://www.theglassmagazine.com/forum/article.asp ?tid=1968#title

frieze art fair: a glass guide
Our online art team pick out what — and who — to watch out for at this year’s fair
Posted: 12 October 2010

. Pe.

Despite the difficult last two years, Frieze is playing host to some big numbers this time around. Christie's will hold
its annual October Post-War and Contemporary Art evening auction, with the top lot - | Am Become Death,
Shatterer of Worlds, a butterfly canvas by Damien Hirst — going for an estimated £2.5m-£3.5m. Other notable
sales to watch out for are Andreas Gursky's photomontage of the New York Stock Exchange, last seen hanging in
the boardroom at Lehman Brothers (estimate: £100,000 — £150,000), and Sotheby’s sales from Jerry Hall's
extraordinary collection, which includes work by Frank Auerbach, Lucian Freud and Andy Warhol.

The fair’s fringe is looking more diverse than ever this year. For quiet classicism, The House of the Noble Man, a
stone's throw away in Cornwall Terrace, is a definite highlight. Curated by Victoria Golembiovskaya and the artist
Wolfe von Lenkiewicz, it will include four rare Picassos and Cezanne’s Don Quixote. Meanwhile, purveyors
looking for modern artist-led work should head to Screening. An independent art exhibition on 203-205
Brompton Road — a purpose-built exhibition space within a Knightsbridge office block — rising stars will be
showing alongside heavyweight Toby Ziegler and much-talked about video artist Ryan Trecartin. The temporal
format of video art will be considered in this sprawling building as an extension of work on canvas — with the help
of some of London’s brightest new young painters.

There are a few satellite fairs for the collectors craving boutique shopping after getting an eyeful at the main
event. The Pavilion of Art and Design will be returning to Berkeley Square, Mayfair, for the fourth year running,
featuring 50 distinguished international dealers of modern art, design, decorative arts, photography, jewellery
and tribal art. SUNDAY, a free three-day event in Marylebone's Ambika P3, is shaping up to be an intriguing
replacement to Zoo,, according to the Independent. Sponsored by the Zabludowicz Collection, it features 20 up-
and-coming galleries from all over the world. Whitechapel Gallery is also making some noise on the periphery,
displaying works from the D.Daskalopoulos collection in Greece — one of the foremost collections of
contemporary art in Europe.

Syma Tariq, art editor

36

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028316
