Risk tolerance might be anything in any individual. As a norm, it tends to bea
function of age, gender and wealth. Effects of age and gender are better understood.
Teens and young adults, particularly males, seem readiest to take chances. Prison
populations and medal of honor rolls feature young males. Part of the explanation, |
think, is biologist R. A. Fisher’s sex ratio theory of 1930, or equally Bob Trivers’
differential investment theory of 1971. Young males show greatest variance in
reproductive prospects. Females are almost always assured of a few offspring.
Young males might leave none or many. Nature arranges tournaments or displays to

give fitter males the advantage.

Another reason is that the young, of either sex, have most time left to outride

downswings. The older we get, the more risk-averse.

Some businesses and assets are inherently riskier than others. Nerf balls are safer
than hand grenades. But | prefer to look past the asset owned to the owner. We tend
to own assets suited to our risk preferences. And we tend to operate it as safely or
riskily as we like. That is true particularly of human capital, although it was first
designed according to our parents’ goals rather than ours. Human capital is
probably the most versatile asset, even so, and is adapted to our purposes rather
than theirs. We make it as risky as we choose. The risk-averse can become florists or
Trappists. Risk lovers can try bullfighting or skydiving. What does that tell us about

the relative risk of the factors?

Human capital is owned disproportionately by the young. We own very little
physical capital, legally or in practical effect, until maturity. Pay at first is barely
enough for survival. We accumulate it gradually as pay rises with age, and then
deplete it in provision for the young and in our own retirement. Since physical
capital is owned disproportionately by the older and more risk-averse, and human

capital the contrary, human capital figures to be higher on average in risk and return.

Chapter 2: Fast Forward 1/06/16 25

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010965
