4.2.12
WC: 191694

written is unwise, unfair, false, or malicious. In a democratic society, one who assumes to
act for the citizens in an executive, legislative, or judicial capacity must expect that his
official acts will be commented upon and criticized. Such criticism cannot, in my opinion,
be muzzled or deterred by the courts at the instance of public officials under the label of
libel.”

Since I am a public figure under the law, I have been defamed on numerous occasions, especially
on the internet. The libels and slanders have been both personal and political. Although these
defamations were published with actual malice, I have not sued, though I have often been
tempted. (I once threatened to sue when a journalist made up a false racist and sexist quotation
and attributed it to me; the newspaper investigated, agreed with me and made a contribution to
my favorite charity).

Many years after New York Times v. Sullivan, I myself was charged with defamation—indeed
criminal defamation—for exercising my own freedom of speech to criticize a judge for an opinion
she wrote. This certainly made me appreciate our First Amendment. Here is the story:

One day in my office I opened an envelope and saw a notice that an Italian prosecutor in the city
of Turin had initiated a criminal investigation against me. I had no idea what she could be
referring to. The letter stated that I had committed the alleged act in the city of Turin on January
27%, 2005. I checked my calendar and discovered that I was teaching students at Harvard Law
School on that day and then attending a lecture by a prominent federal judge. I could not possibly
have been in Turin or engaged in any criminal act there. Yet I soon discovered that I was being
charged with criminal libel for statements I had made in an interview with an Italian journalist
over the telephone. The journalist was in New York. I was sitting at my desk in Cambridge. But
the interview was published by the newspaper La Stampa in Turin on January 25, 2005.
Accordingly, the alleged criminal act had taken place in Turin, even though I had never set foot in
that city. Nor had I engaged in any act other than responding to questions and expressing my
heartfelt views about a judge who had written a foolish and dangerous judicial opinion that ruled
that three men suspected of recruiting suicide bombers were “guerrillas” and therefore not
terrorists, and not guilty.

I characterized her opinion as a “Magna Carta for terrorism,” and instead of answering (or
ignoring) me, she filed criminal charges with the prosecutor who decided to open an investigation.

As far as I know, the charges against me are still pending in Italy. I have every intention to fight
them if it comes to that.

A variation on the theme of defamation is ridicule. Cartoons and drawings have long been used to
ridicule the high and mighty. More recently photo-shopped pictures have superimposed the heads
of public figures on the bodies of others to demean or insult them. In 1988, the Supreme Court
ruled that the Reverend Jerry Falwell could not sue Hustler Magazine for publishing a parody of
the well known Campari Liqueur ads in which a celebrity described “his first time.” The ad relies
on the obvious double-entendre on the first sexual and drinking experience. In the parody,
Falwell is shown drinking and having sex with his mother—pretty disgusting! But as the Supreme
Court rightly observed:

150

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017237
