How to Teach the Twelve Cognitive Processes 123

hurt anyone very much. The idea of showing pain is big in values
campaigns. Campaigns against drunk driving like to show students
dead drivers and awful car crashes. But they miss the real point. Have
the students seen their parents drink and drive or friends drink and
drive? Are they dead? If not, these campaigns will have little impact
since values are subconsciously held.

There is a way to teach these things but it isn’t easy. Imagine that
you wanted to teach teenagers not to drive drunk. You could create a
simulation of drunkenness that asked students to drive drunk while
not being able to hold their heads steady, blacking out from time to
time, and seeing very badly. In other words, instilling a new emotion
into the mix can alter values. Make people afraid of something they
want to do and that fear will manifest itself when it is time to do it.
Emotions can be induced into subconscious processes and decision-
making through experience. Emotions can change values.

There is a sense in which appreciation cannot be taught. You like
it or you don’t. I have two grandsons. The 5-year-old (my daughter’s
child) has announced that he doesn’t want to have anything to do
with a ball. The 3-year-old (my son’s child) goes wild with excitement
when he sees ballgames being played and responds excitedly when
balls are given to him. What is the difference and how did this hap-
pen? The difference is obvious: One appreciates the art of it and one
doesn’t. How this happened is less clear, but the parenting is very dif-
ferent with respect to balls in each house. There are other, biologi-
cal differences as well. The 3-year-old has much taller parents and is
already the same size as the 5-year-old. He is much more physical as
well.

So, the question is, Could we teach the 5-year-old to love balls and
ballgames, and could we teach the 3-year-old to hate balls and ball-
games? The answer to this is obvious. We could do this. It might be
hard but people are, unfortunately, quite good at negative reinforce-
ment, so it is possible to make people change their attitudes by using
it as a method.

Is there a way to teach the positive? Can we get someone to ap-
preciate a work of art who does not respond immediately to works of
art? Can we get someone to appreciate classical music who does not
have any interest in it?

This is, of course, what many art history or music appreciation
courses endeavor to do. Their methodology is always the same:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023869
