maturity but sagaciousness, the Tea Party-Bannon-Breitbart wing mounted an ad hominem
campaign pushing an image of Ryan as uncommitted to the cause, an inept strategist and
incompetent leader. He was the Tea Party-Bannon-Breitbart punch line: the ultimate empty
suit, a hee-haw sort of joke and an embarrassment.

Trump’s distaste for Ryan was significantly less structural. He had no views about
Ryan’s political abilities, and had paid no real attention to Ryan’s actual positions. His
view was personal. Ryan had insulted him—again and again. Ryan had kept betting
against him. Ryan had become the effective symbol of the Republican establishment’s
horror and disbelief about Trump. Adding insult to injury, Ryan had even achieved some
moral stature by dissing Trump (and, as usual, he considered anybody’s gain at his
expense a double insult). By the spring of 2016, Ryan was still, and by then the only,
alternative to Trump as the nominee. Say the word, many Republicans felt, and the
convention would stampede to Ryan. But Ryan’s seemingly smarter calculation was to let
Trump win the nomination, and then to emerge as the obvious figure to lead the party after
Trump’s historic defeat and the inevitable purge of the Tea Party-Trump-Breitbart wing.

Instead, the election destroyed Paul Ryan, at least in Steve Bannon’s eyes. Trump had
not only saved the Republican Party but had given it a powerful majority. The entire
Bannon dream had been realized. The Tea Party movement, with Trump as its remarkable
face and voice, had come to power—something like total power. It owned the Republican
Party. Publicly breaking Paul Ryan was the obvious and necessary step.

But a great deal could fall into the chasm between Bannon’s structural contempt for
Ryan and Trump’s personal resentment. If Bannon saw Ryan as being unwilling and
unable to carry out the new Bannon-Trump agenda, Trump saw a chastened Ryan as
suddenly and satisfyingly abject, submissive, and useful. Bannon wanted to get rid of the
entire Republican establishment; Trump was wholly satisfied that it now seemed to bend
to him.

“He’s quite a smart guy,” Trump said after his first postelection conversation with the
Speaker. “A very serious man. Everybody respects him.”

Ryan, “rising to a movie-version level of flattery and sucking-up painful to witness,”
according to one senior Trump aide, was able to delay his execution. As Bannon pressed
his case for Meadows—who was significantly less yielding than Ryan—Trump dithered
and then finally decided that not only was he not going to push for Ryan’s ouster, but Ryan
was going to be his man, his partner. In an example of the odd and unpredictable effects of
personal chemistry on Trump—of how easy it can be to sell the salesman—Trump would
now eagerly back Ryan’s agenda instead of the other way around.

“T don’t think that we quite calculated that the president would give him carte blanche,”
reflected Katie Walsh. “The president and Paul went from such a bad place during the
campaign to such a romance afterward that the president was happy to go along with

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020005
