Tunisia and certain other countries have another sense for the Iranian
nation.... This is the same as 'Islamic Awakening,' which is the result
of the victory of the big revolution of the Iranian nation, said
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.

Iran also broadcast speeches by Hezbollah's leader into Bahrain,
cheering the protesters on. Bahraini officials say that Iran went
further, providing money and even some weapons to some of the
more extreme opposition members. Protest leaders vehemently deny
any operational or political links to Iran, and foreign diplomats in
Bahrain say that they have seen little evidence of it.

March 14 was the critical turning point. At the invitation of Bahrain,
Saudi armed vehicles and tanks poured across the causeway that
separates the two countries. They came representing a special
contingent under the aegis of the Gulf Cooperation Council, a league
of Sunni-led Gulf states, but the Saudis were the major driver. The
Saudis publicly announced that 1,000 troops had entered Bahrain, but
privately they concede that the actual number is considerably higher.
If both Iran and Saudi Arabia see themselves responding to external
threats and opportunities, some analysts, diplomats and democracy
advocates see a more complicated picture. They say that the ramping
up of regional tensions has another source: fear of democracy itself.
Long before protests ousted rulers in the Arab world, Iran battled
massive street protests of its own for more than two years. It managed
to control them, and their calls for more representative government or
outright regime change, with massive, often deadly, force. Yet even
as the government spun the Arab protests as Iranian inspired, Iran's
Green Revolution opposition movement managed to use them to
boost their own fortunes, staging several of their best-attended rallies
in more than a year.

Saudi Arabia has kept a wary eye on its own population of Shiites,
who live in the oil-rich Eastern Province directly across the water

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023465
