Table of Contents

COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION

No interlocking relationships exist between the members of our Board and the board or compensation committee of any other company.

COMMUNICATIONS BY STOCKHOLDERS AND OTHER INTERESTED PARTIES WITH THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Stockholders and other interested parties may contact an individual director, the lead director, the Board as a group, or a specified board
committee or group, including the non-management directors as a group, by sending regular mail to

Carvana Co.

1930 W. Rio Salado Pkwy
Tempe, AZ 85281

ATTN: Board of Directors

or by email at leaddirector@carvana.com.

Each communication should specify which director or directors the communication is addressed to, as well as the general topic of the
communication. Carvana will receive the communications and process them before forwarding them to the addressee. Carvana may also refer
communications to other departments within Carvana. Carvana generally will not forward to the directors a communication that is primarily commercial in
nature, relates to an improper or irrelevant topic, or requests general information regarding Carvana.

DIRECTOR COMPENSATION

Prior to our IPO, none of our directors received compensation as a director from us. We have designed our non-employee director
compensation program to achieve the following objectives:

* align directors’ interests with the long-term interests of our shareholders;
* attract and retain outstanding director candidates with diverse backgrounds and experiences; and

* recognize the substantial time commitment required to serve as a Carvana director.

The Compensation and Nominating Committee reviews the Company’s director compensation program annually. Independent directors may
not receive, directly or indirectly, any consulting, advisory or other compensatory fees from us. Members of the Board who are employees of Carvana do
not receive compensation for their service on the Board. The following table presents summary information regarding the total compensation awarded to,
eamed by, and paid to our non-employee directors for the year ended December 31, 2018:

-15-

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024323
