June 27, 2013

discussion of the tax law itself. The Court
judged DOMA for its impact on “over
1,000 federal statutes and the whole
realm of federal regulations.” Very little
was said specifically about federal tax law
beyond that. Nevertheless, the federal tax
law is clearly among those “federal stat-
utes and regulations” impacted most di-
rectly by the Supreme Court’ holding.

IMPACT. Same-sex couples who were mar-
ried under state law for years prior to 2013
now need to decide whether to amend those
prior-year returns still open under the Codes
statute of limitations, to reflect a change
from unmarried to married filing status.
Same-sex married couples also should con-
sider updating their estate plans, based upon
the estate and gift tax impact of Windsor.

INCOME TAX BENEFITS
AND DISADVANTAGES

Because of the Supreme Court's decision, the
same tax benefits and disadvantages faced by
just-married, opposite-sex couples—in chang-
ing from filing as separate, unmarried indi-
viduals to filing as married filing jointly (or
married filing separately)—are now shared by
same-sex married couples. Likewise, however,
those same-sex couples not married under
state law continue to be subject to the same
disadvantages and benefits, and face many of
the same strategic decisions, as unmarried het-
erosexual couples under the federal tax law.

CAUTION. As mentioned, above, reso-
lution is pending on the issue of whether
recognition or non-recognition of a same-
sex marriage in the State in which the
same-sex couple currently reside controls
whether the IRS will treat the couple as
married for federal tax purposes. Most
federal agencies have defined marriage in
the past based on a couple’ residency and
not where they were married.

FILING STATUS

A taxpayer's filing status depends in large
part—if not exclusively in most cases—on

the taxpayer’s marital status. Taxpayers may
be single, surviving spouse, head of house-
hold, married filing joint returns, or married
filing separately. Filing status, in turn, deter-
mines the right to many tax benefits, both in
terms of access and amount. Income tax rate
bracket levels, the standard deduction, per-
sonal exemptions, and the adjusted gross in-
come (AGI) amounts at which many tax ben-
efits “phaseout” all hinge upon filing status.

Joint Return Status. Because of the Supreme
Courts Windsor decision, same-sex couples who
currently are married under state law are presum-
ably now also barred for federal tax purposes from
filing separate returns as unmarried (or as head of
household, in most cases); they must file either
jointly or married filing separately for 2013 (un-
less they are divorced or have a final separation
agreement in place by the end of 2013). The
general rule that has always applied to filing sta-
tus now presumably applies to same-sex married
status as well: an individual’s filing status is de-
termined for the entire year based upon marital
status on December 31* of that year. The IRS is
expected to issue guidance in this area.

IMPACT. Leading up to the Supreme
Courts decision, many same-sex couples
filed protective income tax refund claims
using married filing jointly status. A pro-
tective refund claim is a claim filed to
protect the taxpayers right to a potential
refund based on a contingent event for
a taxable period for which the period of
limitations is about to expire. Now that
the Supreme Courts decision is out, full
refund claims, rather than protective
claims, should be filed going forward.

COMMENT. Under current rules, a tax-
payer can sign a joint return if his or her
spouse is serving in a combat zone. In other
limited cases where one spouse cannot sign
the joint return, such as because of injury or
illness, the other spouse may sign the return
and attach a statement explaining why the
spouse was unable to sign. Same-sex couples
who are married under state law are now

presumably allowed these signing benefits.

COMMENT. Because same-sex marriage
is relatively new, the tax implications

of divorce of a same-sex couple are only
starting to manifest themselves.

The Marriage Penalty. Same-sex married
couples who have been denied joint re-
turn status under the federal tax laws prior
to the Supreme Court's Windsor decision
now need to investigate the effect of joint
return status, both for returns that will be
filed in the future and for prior year returns
still open within the statute of limitations
refund-claim period (generally, but not al-
ways, three years from filing — see this Brief-
ing, below, for a discussion of this deadline).

The benefits of filing a joint return may
not always be greater than filing separately
as unmarried individuals. Both differences
in tax rate bracket amounts and a variety of
income floors and thresholds used to deter-
mine the right to certain tax breaks come
into play in determining whether some
same-sex couples were better off, income
tax-wise, before the Supreme Court’s deci-
sion; and what they should do now.

IMPACT. Individuals in a relationship
who are not married and who each re-
alize approximately the same level of

NO NATIONWIDE
EXTENSION OF SAME-
SEX MARRIAGE

‘The Supreme Court struck down Section
3 of DOMA, which defined marriage as
a legal union between one man and one
woman as husband and wife and de-
fined spouse as only a person of the op-
posite sex who is a husband or wife. The
Supreme Court did not strike down Sec-
tion 2 of DOMA, which provides that
no state, territory or possession of the
United States shall be required to give
effect to any marriage between persons
of the same sex under the laws of any
other such jurisdiction or to any right
or claim arising from such relationship.
Section 2 was not challenged and, there-
fore, was not at issue in Windsor.

CCH Tax Briefing

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029307
