| am a TV journalist who covered the Epstein story for several years and wrote a best selling book
about him with James Patterson in 2016.

Jim Patterson and | are now consulting on a four hour Netflix documentary series tentatively set to
air towards the end of the year.

The showrunner, Lisa Bryant, is working with director Joe Berlinger whose work | am sure you are
familiar with, to produce a fair and balanced, in-depth recounting of the Epstein saga that, as you
know, has every possible dramatic angle and is a story like no other.

We thought of you because of your remarkable reputation in the public relations and show business
world and the fact that you were an acquaintance of Jeffrey Epstein.

The tawdry side of the story has been told...We hope you can give us some insight and context into
who he was before his life fell apart.

| am sure that Lisa Bryant,Joe Berlinger and Jim Patterson would all make themselves available to
get on a call with you this week.

Jim is in Florida,and Joe is traveling overseas for his Ted Bundy film.
Lisa is in New York and would be happy to meet you in person as would |.

Thanks for giving this your consideration.

Best,
Tim Malloy

please note
The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of
JEE
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited
and may be unlawful. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and
destroy this communication and all copies thereof,
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved

please note
The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of
JEE
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017828
