portfolios are chosen for returns no higher and riskier than the year before. They
will tend in fact to be lower, judging from logic and evidence for a decline in risk

tolerance with age.

Then what besides work is recovered in pay? The two possibilities I was weighing
were maintenance consumption and human depreciation. The winner was obvious.
The higher-paid usually consume more, but not always and not in proportion. The
fact that we must generally be paid enough to cover consumption does not imply
that we are paid to consume. We are motivated to do that anyhow. We are paid to
apply skills, and are paid in proportion to skills applied. Human capital is skill sets.
Pay measures its transfer to products, whether in realized work currently created or

from capital in place through human depreciation.

That’s how! came to the pay rule. We see why it ought to startle economists.
Macroeconomic tradition teaches the doctrine that wage measures work, and
teaches it so confidently that it uses the notation W for either. Human capital
tradition recognizes that some work is self-invested, but effectively treats human
depreciation as deadweight loss. That’s why I use “pay” in place of the more usual

“wage”.

Refuting a Piketty Argument

There are practical uses for the pay rule aside from solution of the age-wage
problem. These are the impact on tax laws and public policy that I promised. Piketty
has shown correctly that the ratio of pay to net profit rose substantially during the
world wars, world depression and welfare state period following, and has declined
since. Piketty argues for higher capital taxes in consequence. His argument follows
tradition in comparing pay and net profit as the shares of workers and investors in
income. But tradition is wrong. Pay is the worker’s gross realized income, meaning
gross of human depreciation. Depreciation, for either factor, is a steadier flow. This
makes gross output for either less responsive to upturns and downturns. It is a

particularly high share of realized income or output in hard times when dislocation

Chapter 2: Fast Forward 1/06/16 19

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010959
