QO

iw}

tH

Les

a

generally considered to be representative of U.S. stock market activity. The NASDAQ
Composite Index measures all NASDAQ domestic and non-U.S. based common stocks listed
on the NASDAQ Stock Market. The NASDAQ Biotechnology Index includes securities of
NASDAQ-listed companies classified according to the Industry Classification Benchmark as
either Biotechnology or Pharmaceuticals which also meet other eligibility criteria. The Dow
Jones Industrial Average is an index that shows how 30 large, publicly owned companies
based in the U.S. have traded during a standard trading session in the stock market.

Data provided by Cambridge Associates at no charge. Cambridge U.S. VC healthcare data as
of Q1’13. Where results on the Sprout Funds refer to net basis, it is the result of a
methodology that adjusts the gross results for the healthcare technology investments for
recycling, management fees, and carried interest so they can be compared to industry sources
(e.g., Cambridge Associates) on a directly comparable basis. The methodology and
assumptions used to adjust from gross to net basis is described in Appendix 2.

The gross annual compound internal rate of return (“IRR”) and gross multiple of invested
capital as of March 31, 2014 are before giving effect to taxes, management fees, the general
partner’s carried interest and other expenses. The net IRR and net multiple of invested capital
as of March 31, 2014 are after giving effect to management fees, the general partner’s carried
interest and other expenses. All IRRs presented are annualized and calculated on the basis of
quarterly inflows and outflows of cash and unrealized values, assuming such inflows and
outflows occurred as of quarter end and all remaining investments were sold at the current
holding value through as of March 31, 2014. There can be no assurance that unrealized
investments will be realized at the valuations shown.

The results for the Sprout Funds represent results from the healthcare technology portion of
the Sprout Funds, which represents between 8% and 65% of the cost basis of the investments
of the funds taken as a whole. Healthcare technology means, collectively, the
biopharmaceutical, medical device, and diagnostics and infrastructure sectors. See
Appendix 2 for the Methodology Used to Calculate Net Return Numbers for Sprout
Healthcare Technology Portfolios.

Net Distributed to Paid-in Capital (“DPI”): Calculated based on (1) called capital of a fund
(based on individual called capital percentages and fund sizes across multiple funds) and
(2) distributed capital of a fund (based on aggregating individual funds distributed capital
amounts, as calculated using DPI and called individual fund called amounts). For the
purposes of this ratio for NLV-I and NLV-IL, the “deemed contribution” of the general partner
is included in the total amount of capital contributions made by the fund’s partners.

(Distributed + Public) to Paid-in Capital: Calculated based on (1) called capital of a fund
(based on individual called capital percentages and fund sizes across multiple funds) and
(2) distributed capital of a fund (based on aggregating individual funds distributed capital
amounts, as calculated using DPI and called individual fund called amounts) plus the
unrealized value of publicly traded securities based on the closing market price of the
security. For the purposes of this ratio for NLV-I and NLV-II, the “deemed contribution” of
the general partner is included in the total amount of capital contributions made by the fund’s
partners.

98 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024109
