18
emerged to protest what they considered the Almoravids’ “tolerance.”
Their takeover of Andalusia radicalized the society, leading to the
persecution of non-Muslims and to religious warfare.

Turkey’s Islamization under the AKP threatens to follow a similar, if
more gradual, trajectory. The AKP’s embrace of religious values is
not the biggest problem of Turkish secularists. Rather, the larger
threat is that, now that the AKP has pushed religion more to the
center of Turkish social preoccupations, fundamentalists will gain
carte blanche to challenge the AKP as “not Muslim enough.”

Indeed, last November the AKP was moved to fire Ali Bardakoglu,
the liberal head of Diyanet, Turkey’s official religious authority that
has historically checked fanaticism by building mosques and training
imams while promoting a liberal understanding of Islam. The AKP
replaced Bardakoglu with another well-known scholar, Mehmet
Gormez, who has an avowedly more conservative take on Islam.

The new Diyanet chief’s first act was to fire Ayse Sucu, who headed
the organization’s women’s branch. Sucu’s initiatives had included
suggesting that women should be able to decide for themselves
whether to cover their hair. Fundamentalist media and pundits were
ecstatic at her ousting, claiming that it signaled that there was no
room for a personal interpretation of Islam.

The AKP has promoted socially conservative values, such as the need
for women to wear the Islamic headscarf and a disdain for alcohol.
Turkish bureaucrats and businesspeople complain that embracing
these practices to prove that one is a “good Muslim” has become a
precondition for getting government promotions and contracts.
Meanwhile, the AKP-run media watchdog recently scolded a
television station for broadcasting a program about Suleiman the
Magnificent that truthfully depicted the famously cosmopolitan
Ottoman sultan drinking alcohol. The official warning followed an
outcry led by AKP leaders and fundamentalists alike, who demanded

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023504
