PESSIMISTIC POPULISTS

The third challenge today is a widespread loss of confidence in the West
about its own systems and future potential. Sluggish growth across the
developed world, stagnant incomes for much of the population, rising
economic inequality, political gridlock, and the emergence of populist
insurgencies on both sides of the political spectrum have fueled a
widespread sense that Western models of governance and economic
management are floundering.

Many of these problems are real and important. But they are not beyond the
capacity of determined leadership to solve, nor do they represent
fundamental weaknesses of the Western model. So the pessimism strikes us
as dramatically overdone, like previous bouts of declinism and worry that
the West's best days were past. The greatest danger, in fact, is that the
widespread pessimism will become a self-fulfilling prophecy. Gloomy
Western policymakers and publics are more likely to see threats than
opportunities and to turn away from the world rather than continue to lead
it successfully.

This is notable in the rising opposition, for example, to the Trans-Pacific
Partnership, a major trade deal that would help extend and deepen the
liberal order across a broad swath of the globe. It is evident in the increasing
suspicion of immigrants and refugees and in the growing support for closing
borders. And it can be seen in the fraying and potential unraveling of
international institutions such as the European Union, formerly a model of
progressive international integration.

It would be a terrible shame if the West walked away from the very
international order that it created after World War II and that has facilitated
so much security, prosperity, and development over the decades. Instead, it
should try to reinvigorate that order, with three moves in particular:
working with China and India, bolstering international rules, and
accentuating the positive global trends that get lost in all the hysteria about
the negative ones.

Why China and India? Because they have the largest populations and
economies in the developing world, are led by strong, reform-minded
leaders, and are approaching the future with dynamism, optimism, and
hope. Both understand that they need to take on greater responsibilities in
confronting global problems, and as last fall's Paris climate agreement
demonstrates, they are already starting to do so.

Although China's rise has been one of the universally acknowledged
wonders of the age, India's recent rise has been impressive as well, as India,
too, has embraced modernization, globalization, and Enlightenment
rationalism. Along the way, India has maintained the world's largest
democracy, successfully accommodated an amazingly diverse cultural and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026845
