James PATTERSON

Some wait a year before making their way to the courthouse,
their date with the public defender, and an appearance before
the judge. Some get out much sooner, if only they can make bail.
But there’s no bail without money — or at least collateral—and,
of course, being without money is often what lands people in jail
in the first place.

Jeffrey Epstein could have posted bail for every single inmate 4
in the Gun Club.

But that’s just one of the ways in which Epstein is unlike his
fellow inmates. He’s an admitted pedophile now. Even a famous one.

And, famously, pedophiles tend to fare poorly in jail.

Luckily for Epstein, Ric Bradshaw, the sheriff in charge of
local jails, transfers Epstein to the infirmary, where he spends
exactly one night before being transferred seven miles up the 4 a
road to a much smaller, safer location: the Palm Beach County i

Central Detention Center—or, as it’s known, the Stockade.

(at geet aie

Sheriff Ric Bradshaw: June

ur job,” says Ric Brads]

“I’s not somewhere we'd put a serial killer,” Ric Bradshaw says. killed him”

Most of the residents here are addicts who take part in drug Sheriff Bradshaw c
education programs, prostitutes, petty criminals, and drunks. | Western. Imposingly tall a
It’s a far safer place for Epstein to be, and, unlike other inmates 4 mustache, and slow, me:

(except, of course, those being held in solitary), he'll end up with

_ old-school law officer—
his own cell, even his own wing, which he has to himself = era

; patrolling the streets of Tombst
‘ He’s been a lawman for forty-fc
| been spent as the head of the co
a talk to the media, and today, as
q he’s clearly uncomfortable, fidgel
3 But here in his wood-panele
geun Club, Bradshaw remembers
4 “We have a thousand sexua
> “When he arrived here, he

Epstein’s allowed to pay for a security guard, who sits outside the
cell and keeps watch. And he's allowed any number of visitors.
For a convicted felon, it’s an extraordinary benefits package. —
But according to Sheriff Bradshaw, who also oversees the Stock: q
ade, Epstein is incredulous over the treatment he is receiving. 4
“He was astonished that he had to go to prison at all,” Brae |

shaw remembers.
“Let's just say he didn't think he belonged there.”

200
20;

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010540
