communities enfolded the care of the
sick into a communal life of liturgy and
prayer. This is not to say that the
substantively irreligious lack proper
motivation to practice medicine. It is to
say that an animating vision for
medicine as a good and worthy activity
seems to require moral concepts that
science alone does not provide.

How should medical science be
deployed?

Medicine is not only animated by
something like a religious vision; it also
requires a thick moral framework for its
ongoing direction. To know how best to
care for patients, we need to know
something about what human flourishing
entails and how medicine can contribute
to it. Medical science is less helpful here
than one might hope.

Science facilitates the sort of
religious humanism that Browning
encourages, because it helps us better
understand the empirical world and
therefore helps all moral communities
refine their efforts to bring about human
flourishing. Science elucidates a range of
technical possibilities and provides
information about what we can
reasonably expect as the consequence of
choosing one course over another. Yet,
even the successes of medical science
highlight its limits. As medical science
generates technologies that can be put to
ever-wider uses, it exposes
disagreements about which of those uses
are worthwhile. Although medicine
proceeds in scientific ways in the care of
patients, it does so in pursuit of goals
that science cannot set. These goals
come from moral traditions and cultures,
religious or otherwise.

In the same way that the
influence of a dominant culture on
medical practice is often invisible or

142

Page

taken for granted precisely because of its
dominance, so the influence of religious
ideas on medical practice is often
invisible in those areas where
commitments are shared in common
among different religions and other
moral traditions. For example, we
generally take it for granted that
mending injuries, treating infections, and
removing diseased organs are good
things to do. That is because the moral
commitments that undergird these
practices are shared by virtually all
moral communities, religious or
otherwise. Moral commitments that are
shared by all may not seem ‘moral’ at
all. Yet even the idea of sickness implies
a norm of and concern for health that are
not fully derivable from empirical
science.

The influence of religion on
medical practice becomes more visible
where the commitments of particular
traditions diverge from one another or
where they diverge from the values of
the dominant culture. For example,
religious measures have been found
consistently to strongly predict
physicians’ attitudes regarding ethically
controversial practices such as abortion,
physician-assisted suicide, withdrawal of
life-sustaining therapies, contraception,
physician interaction with patients about
spiritual concerns and, as we have found,
physicians’ ideas about the relationship
between religion and health.’

Yet overtly controversial issues
merely highlight the tips of proverbial
icebergs. Disputes about practices such
as abortion or physician-assisted suicide
concern whether the practices are
intrinsically unethical. Much more
commonly physicians agree about the
range of legitimate clinical strategies,
but they disagree about which is to be
recommended in a given moment. For

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021388
