Everybody knows everybody, and it doesn’t matter if
you have a hit film or T.V. show this season. Oprah
Winfrey kisses David Geffen, casually chats with former
Disney C.E.O, Michael Eisner and current Sony Chief Sir
Howard Stringer and Rob Weisenthal. Brett Ratner
arrives with his houseguest Jean Pigozzi, who is allowed to
take photographs. Graydon greets people with chic wife
Anna by his side.

Ingrid Sischy and Sandy Brant, Rupert Murdoch,
Ron Meyer, Francesco Clemente with his twin boys and
Tom Ford chat each other up. People to watch include
pregnant Victoria and David Beckham with Lynn
Wyatt, Fran Lebowitz, Larry Gagosian and Shala
Monroque, Ben Silverman, Debbie and Allen

ST |

Wendi Murdoch, Kathy Freston and
Arianna Huffington

Georgina
Chapman

Grubman, Sotheby’s Tobias Meyer and Mark Fletcher and
Stephen Gaghan and Mini Mortimer wearing her over-
sized cat glasses.
Bruce Cohen has invited me to the Oscar broadcast
rehearsal. Inside the Kodak Theater’s massive audi-
torium, I find a seat next to his proud parents. I
watch Josh Brolin and Javier Bardem come out in
white dinner jackets and flub their lines as they
pretend to present Best Adapted Screenplay and
Best Original Screenplay. Josh will later tell me
that their acting methods are completely opposite:
he’s a quick study and is very creative and
comfortable ad-libbing; Javier, whose mother
tongue is Spanish, likes to have every syllable
printed out to study with a dialect coach. Life-size
photos on cardboard plaques are taped to each
nominee’s chair. I memorize their location so when I
return Sunday I can quickly kiss them all.
Back at the Beverly Hills hotel I slip into my black

| i
Brian Grazer and Jeff Bezos

| ee tulle Dennis Basso cocktail dress with a plunging
“Diaz vs Tom Kline and put ther’s jewels. Ji
iaz E Cae neckline and put on my mother’s jewels. Jim
r Coleman takes me to the “Night Before Party” in the
i a!

hotel. This is Jeffrey Katzenberg’s 9th annual A-lister event
benefiting The Motion Picture & Television Fund where they
raise $6.5 million dollars in 1 night. I walk into Valentino,
who gives me an approving once-over. I tell him and
Giancarlo Giammetti that Woody Allen’s new film,
Midnight in Paris, is opening the Cannes Film Festival and
they must bring the yacht.

Elton John and David Furnish join our conversation so of
course we ask for intimate details about baby Zachary. I
segue over to Amy Adams, who, like them, mentions she
hates leaving her baby in the hotel room. Next stop is Kate
Capshaw in a black bowler hat chatting with Steven
Spielberg’s god-daughter, Gwyneth Paltrow. I have known
Steven for years (in 1982 I was a publicist on E.T.). I now tell
him I’m going to the Lincoln Center opening of War Horse
with Kathy Kennedy and Frank Marshall and cannot wait to
see his movie version.

I meet sweet Jennifer Aniston, her new haircut and her
perfect little body. Her date tells me her secret is a half-hour
on the treadmill everyday—such an understatement. I tell
Jesse Eisenberg I was on his plane home from the Baftas last
week, but he was hiding under his hoodie. He says innocently,
“You should have said ‘hello’ I always cover my head because
I think my curls make me look like a girl”

The charity gives us a coupon booklet redeemable at
various booths. Rich people run around like lunatics, collect-
ing gifts for their housekeepers. Among the shoppers are
Steven and Heather Mnuchin, Viacom’s Deborah and
Philippe Dauman, Tamara Mellon, Christine Taylor and
Ben Stiller, Cate Blanchet, Susan and Robert Downey Jr.
and Debra and Hugh Jackman.

Next stop is The Weinstein Company’s party at the Soho
House sponsored by MontBlanc. Long gone are the funky
Miramax Saturday night soirees where nominees spoofed
their own films in homemade costumes and ad-libbed
hilarious skits. No more grown men dressed as Anna Paquin
playing the piano in hopes of winning a Max Award.

As I come in, a 400-pound gorilla refuses to let me on the
elevator. Once on, I see Jennifer Lopez in the corner and
remind her we met on Len Blavatnik’s yacht in Cannes. She
graciously pretends to remember me. Her manager, Benny
Medina, is kicking me.

I slip into Colin Firth’s booth to have a téte-a-téte with him
and his wife Livia Giuggioli. Jokingly, I suggest he say “I’m

speechless” when he wins. Colin patiently assures me many |

people, far more clever than I, thought of this. He then says that
others are waging bets on whether he might subconsciously
stutter. I grill him about his wardrobe, assuming he will be
wearing a new Tom Ford tuxedo. He tells me both he and
Ford will be in older Ford models. I tell him I made rich-but-
thrifty Charles Ferguson, director of Inside Job, spend $6,000
dollars for a new Tom Ford tux.

In the back room, Jennifer Lopez is now seated with
Weinstein’s wife, Georgina Chapman. Helena Bonham
Carter, her live-in-lover Tim Burton and her mother Elena
circulate. Star power includes Adrien Brody, Mary-Kate
and Ashley Olsen, Cameron Diaz, Camilla Belle, Chace

Adrien
Brody

Claire Danessand
Hugh Dancy

Hailee
Steinfeld

—

Vera
Farmiga

Taylor
, Swift =
Andrew ' see te D
Garfield
Lo
.
q
I
!
3

Oliver Stone and Tara Stone

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012702
