made mistakes, so there are moments in Sex Positive that I wish I could clarify -- but it's
not my film. That's why I'm thrilled that you're giving me the first opportunity to address
the moments that make me cringe when I see the movie -- and what amazed me is that
you nailed most of them.

Me -- pressured into S&M? Hell, no. I stumbled across BDSM porn in college, and was
both appalled and more turned on than I was to any other porn. I pursued a few
experiences as a novice when I was in college, and I was completely turned off to the
scene for years. The few Tops I met were clumsy, distracted by fetishes that bored me,
and I was convinced a bottom could easily get hurt -- so I walked away.

When I began hustling in NYC, I was an angry activist and it attracted S&M bottoms that
were happy to teach me what I could do with my anger that was erotic and consensual.
To that I added what I had learned that Tops did wrong -- and presto! I got really good at
it fast -- and I loved it. I was doing two or three scenes a day, but because I could often
steer a scene to what turned me on, it felt more like play than work.

If I hadn't had been trained as a Top by older, experienced bottoms who were hiring me, I
still would have had S&M experiences on my own. But I doubt that I would have gotten
as heavily into the scene if it wasn't for hustling. That's where I earned my S&M PhD.

In 1979, S&M was considered the fallback scene for aging hustlers -- it was what you
turned to when you were losing your youth. There was such a dearth of good Tops. But I
had the raw material to be a great Top at 23, and I built quite a reputation on word-of-
mouth referrals and repeats. Many of my clients became close friends.

CT: Where do you place BDSM in your sexual identity and self-conception? Do you
see it as deeply part of you, or something you chose? Do you think of your BDSM
urges as coming from a place as deep, as intrinsic, as your gay orientation?

RB: I think it's too late for me to answer that question. Turning my libido into an
occupation at 23 changed me in both good ways and bad. It would take a book to explain
-- so let me just say that as a product of gay male sex in the 70s, there was an element of
power intrinsic to the sexuality of the times. That shaped me. I don't see vanilla sex and
S&M sex as mutually exclusive because I believe in Tops and bottoms -- and that's the
basis of BDSM. Tops and bottoms are not exclusive to BDSM; the terms are widely
used for assigning roles of power in sex in general. Gore Vidal said, There is no such
thing as gay and straight -- only top and bottom. I believe both are true.

But one shouldn't lose sight of the fact that a third of my living space for the past three
decades was a sound-proofed dungeon.

I think that a culture like ours that's based on competition, as opposed to cooperation, can
be extremely sadomasochistic. I think bad S&M can be found in many aspects of our
daily life, and good S&M is just eroticizing aspects of being human that can enhance sex
immensely for some.

CT: What kind of BDSM advocacy have you encountered? What kind of sex work
advocacy have you encountered? What did you think of what you saw? Do you have
any ideas about how to make those movements effective? Do you have any fears

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018565
