Sadly, Keynes’s predictions did not come true. Although productivity did indeed
increase, the system—possibly inherent in a market economy—did not result in humans
working much shorter hours. Rather, what happened is what the anthropologist and
anarchist David Graeber describes as the growth of “bullshit jobs.”°4 While jobs that
produce essentials like food, shelter, and goods have been largely automated away, we
have seen an enormous expansion of sectors like corporate law, academic and health
administration (as opposed to actual teaching, research, and the practice of medicine),
“human resources,” and public relations, not to mention new industries like financial
services and telemarketing and ancillary industries in the so-called gig economy which
serve those who are too busy doing all that additional work.

How will societies cope with technology’s increasingly rapid destruction of entire
professions and throwing large numbers of people out of work? Some argue that this
concern is based on a false premise, because new jobs spring up that didn’t exist before,
but as Graeber points out, these new jobs won’t necessarily be rewarding or fulfilling.
During the first industrial revolution, it took almost a century before most people were
better off. That revolution was possible only because the government of the time
ruthlessly favored property rights over labor, and most people (and all women) did not
have the vote. In today’s democratic societies, it is not clear that the population will
tolerate such a dramatic upheaval of society based on the promise that “eventually”
things will get better.

Even that rosy vision will depend on a radical shake-up of education and lifelong
learning. The Industrial Revolution did trigger enormous social change of this kind,
including a shift to universal education. But it will not happen unless we make it happen:
This is essentially about power, agency, and control. What’s next for, say, the forty-year-
old taxi driver or truck driver in an era of autonomous vehicles?

One idea that has been touted is that of a universal basic income, which will allow
citizens to pursue their interests, retrain for new occupations, and generally be free to live
a decent life. However, market economies, which are predicated on growing consumer
demand over all else, may not tolerate this innovation. There is also a feeling among
many that meaningful work is essential to human dignity and fulfillment. So another
possibility is that the enormous wealth generated by increased productivity due to
automation could be redistributed to jobs requiring human labor and creativity in fields
such as the arts, music, social work, and other worthwhile pursuits. Ultimately, which
jobs are rewarding or productive and which are “bullshit” is a matter of judgment and
may vary from society to society, as well as over time.

So far, ’ve focused on AI’s practical consequences. As a scientist, what bothers me is
our potential loss of understanding. We are now accumulating data at an incredible rate.
In my own lab, an experiment generates over a terabyte of data a day. These data are
massaged, analyzed, and reduced until there is an interpretable result. But in all of this
data analysis, we believe we know what’s happening. We know what the programs are

34 hitps://strikemag. org/bullshit-jobs/

131

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016934
