72

consulting, noted, “Access to China is my livelihood.” At the same time, he argues,
“T never say anything contrary to my views, but I write in a way that is less shrill.”

Another scholar noted, “I don’t self-censor, but there is no need to launch a polemic
every day of the week... polemics get your visa cut off. China’s greatest power is
the power of visa control.” A third commented, “I don’t censor the substance, but

I may modulate what I say.” He argued that he sometimes indulges the sensibilities of
the PRC in order to get his deeper point across. As another analyst noted, “I avoid
sensationalizing. Iam willing to be critical, but I try not to make attacks on Xi.”
And different interviewees distinguish between writing and speaking: “I do not
compromise on writing, but I am cautious in interviews: I will say the same message
but indirectly, not confrontationally.” One analyst said, “I make sure that if I go into
battle, I do so thoughtfully, not accidentally.” She tries to be very strategic about the
messages that she sends and tries not to weigh in on every small issue or bluntly
charge, “You are wrong!” In a similar vein, one other scholar says he often uses an
interrogatory, rather than accusatory, approach when raising challenging issues, such
as human rights.

The knowledge that what an analyst says publicly reflects not only on the individual
but also on the analyst’s institution also shapes at least one scholar’s thinking: “There
is a conflict between protecting your institute and speaking truthfully. Whether it is
over access or money. Sometimes I put the positive first—and then say . . ’but some
people say.’ I might not start right off with Xi Jinping—I might be more indirect. In
public meetings, there is a tacit understanding that you will not be super critical of
China.” Another suggests that it is “very hard not to subconsciously self-censor.” This
person indicated that when their institute does projects on counterterrorism in the
Middle East or Southeast Asia, they are very careful about discussing China’s restive
region of Xinjiang where up to one million Uighurs are presently believed to be in
reeducation camps. In general, they do not take on projects concerning Taiwan or
Xinjiang.

Interviewees expressed a deep sensitivity around the issue of Taiwan and how to refer
to the island and its officials. One analyst observed that in an invitation, his institute
would not identify Taiwan’s representative to the United States as an “ambassador,” but
during the event, he would indeed orally introduce the official as the “ambassador.” Or
as another scholar noted, “I am tactful but keep to my original point of view. I don’t
change the substance. On Taiwan, in private conversations, I use President Tsai—but I
also maintain neutrality in public to ensure that is acceptable to Taiwan and the PRC.”

Two analysts stated that they do not self-censor “at all.” They understand the
temptation, but they try to write and say in public exactly what they would in private.

Think Tanks

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020531
