Attorneys want Jeffrey Epstein agreement thrown out

Doe 1 and 2, who were 14 and 13, respectively, at the time of the
incidents, received monetary settlements in civil cases. They are
among more than two-dozen underage girls who filed lawsuits or
settled claims against Epstein, alleging they were lured to his Palm
Beach mansion to give him sexually charged massages and/or sex
in exchange for money.

The motion filed Monday says the agreement is illegal because the
government did not protect the “Congressionally mandated rights of
victims before it entered this agreement.”

Alicia Valle, special counsel for the U.S. Attorney’s Office Southern
District of Florida, said in an e-mail that the U.S. Attorney's Office
will respond in court filings.

“However, as we stated more than two years ago in July 2008 in our
response to the plaintiffs’ then-emergency petition for enforcement
of the Crime Victim Rights Act, the CVRA was not violated because
no federal charges were ever filed in the Southern District of
Florida,” Valle said. “Because the matter remains pending in court, it
would be inappropriate at this time to provide additional comment on
the merits of the current motion.”

The attorneys reference e-mails and letters from the federal office to
Epstein’s lawyers acknowledging the government's legal obligation
to inform victims about the pact. The e-mails are redacted in the
motion because they are under seal. The attorneys filed a separate
motion Monday to unseal the correspondence.

“The reasonable inference from the evidence is that the U.S.
Attorney's Office wanted to keep the agreement a secret to avoid
intense criticism that would surely ensued had the victims and the
public learned that a billionaire sex offender with political
connections had arranged to avoid federal prosecution for numerous
felony sex offenses against minor girls,” the motion says. “As part of
this pattern of deception, the U.S. Attorney’s Office discussed victim
notification with the defendant sex offender and, after he raised
objections, stopped making notifications.”

Epstein sought “a higher level of review” within the Department of
Justice, the motion says. “A reasonable inference from the evidence
is that Epstein used his significant political and social connections to

lobby the Justice Department to avoid significant federal
prosecution,” the motion states.

Share this article:

COMMENTS

Comments are closed

4/7/11 1:37 PM

More »|

NEWS SOCIETY WEATHER

Religion Insider SPORTS
Archives Social Calendar Polo
ProfilePalmBeach

Madoff FASHION WEF
Special Reports Fashion Calendar BUSINESS
Roe eas aalt OPINION BLOGS
Feral Cats
Plaza Local Voices COLUMNISTS
Reach 8 Letters to the Editor

Health Submit a Letter

ARTS

Arts Calendar
OBITUARIES
LIFESTYLES

Announcements
Food

Worth Avenue
Pets

ADVERTISE
SERVICES

Subscriber Services
Help & FAQ
Locations

Reprints

Staff

Privacy Policy
About Us

Visitor Agreement
Subscribe

REAL ESTATE

SPECIAL SECTIONS

Palm Beach Life
Home & Loggia
Automotive & Yacht
Showcase

Visitors’ Guide

Season in Review
Hurricane Guide 2010
Chamber of Commerce
Newsletter

http://www.palmbeachdailynews.com/news /attorneys—-want-jeffrey-epstein-agreement-thrown-out-1338111.html Page 2 of 3

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013409
