the anxiety-inducing frameworks of the serious discussion, the bedroom, etc.

So when I developed my sexual communication workshop, I encouraged love letters. I
gave two suggested points of departure for a love letter:

1) Describe what happened during a sexual encounter you had together, with particular
emphasis on what your partner did that you really liked -- and what you liked about it. (I
love it when you fuck me is a great thing to say, but you give much more information to
your partner if you say I love it when you fuck me from behind,” or even better, I love
it when you fuck me from behind and it feels amazing when your balls hit my clit. [This
blog does not necessarily reflect the desires or encounters of Miss Clarisse Thorn. ])

2) Describe a fantasy you have. Bonus points if you explicitly put your partner in it. (I
like to imagine you sinking your teeth into me until I scream. This blog does not
necessarily... oh, who am I kidding.)

Postscript: In the comments on this piece, a reader noted that they might feel anxious and
pressured if a partner described them doing something specific. I hadn't thought of this,
but I totally believe that it could be a problem. Certainly, I've sometimes had experiences
writing to a partner where I described him doing something and he thought it was
ridiculously hot... but I've also done it and had partners dislike it. I guess my final advice
is that -- as with all communication -- you'll want to consider the audience, and be ready
to apologize.

KOK ok

This can be found on the Internet at:

http://clarissethorn.com/blog/2010/07/30/sex-communication-tactic-derived-from-sm-3-

COMMUNICATION:

[storytime] Sex Communication Case Studies

I wrote this post in 2011, years after the events in my coming-out story, and a long time
after I'd done all the above research into communication tactics. By 2011, I'd picked up
lots of sexual and BDSM experience with a variety of partners. I had just written a post
about my most destructive past relationship; the post got a lot of readers and was
eventually cross-posted to Jezebel. I wanted to do something positive with all the
attention, so I decided to offer a productive counterpoint.

te Kk ok

Sex Communication Case Studies

In the wake of my last post, which was basically a meditation on one relationship with

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018475
