Agriculture

Current (24 Oct) (last month): Soybeans, USD 15.17/bu (16.12); Corn, USD 7.54/bu (7.44);
Wheat, USD 8.84/bu (8.87)

UBS View 6-month target: Soybeans: USD 17.0/bu; Corn: USD 9.0/bu; Wheat: USD 9.5/bu
¢ Major US supply surprises on the grains side are rather unlikely in the near term as harvesting is in full
swing. However, we think that demand is unlikely to drop as quickly as the USDA expects. According to the
latest USDA grain stocks and WASDE reports, feed demand remained surprisingly resilient in 3Q12. To
effectively ration demand, especially on the feed side, in an environment of critically low US corn and
soybean stocks, higher prices are still required. For wheat, global production estimates were further
lowered due to production losses in Australia, EU, Russia for 2012/13, which likely keeps prices supported in
the near term. We expect corn and soybean prices to appreciate by 15% in the coming months.
¢ On the other side, the softs are likely to remain well supplied, which should keep prices under pressure.
Improved export activity of coffee and strong stock selling from Vietnam in 4Q12 should weigh on coffee
prices in the short-term. For sugar, higher production from Brazil and other producers should continue to
burden prices in the near term, but also offer buying opportunities on a 12-month perspective.
e Aggregating the above points, the risk/reward for being long across the entire sector is not a given. We
therefore reiterate our neutral sector stance.

4 Positive scenario Corn 6-month USD 10/bu; Soybeans 6-month USD 19/bu
¢ With a reduced probability of El Nifio, the yield potential for South American crops is likely to be lower.
Any deterioration in South American supply prospects would require additional demand to be rationed.

& Negative scenario Corn 6-month USD 6/bu Soybeans 6-month USD 12.5/bu
e A change of the US ethanol-gasoline blending mandate would be a game changer. Increases in planted
acreage combined with a steep decline in US demand for exports and feed would weigh on prices.

What we're watching Why it matters

Revisions in acreage and yield estimates for the US crops remain a topic. Demand
estimates are important, too, as they are key drivers behind inventory levels at
the end of the year. Key date: 9 Nov

The latest stocks data is not correctly reflecting the demand for Jun-Aug’12 as it
contains both old and new crop stock figures. We expect stocks as of 1 Dec to
reflect the true demand picture. Key date: Jan 2013

USDA WASDE report
(monthly)

US grains stock report
(quarterly)

USDA crop progress
(weekly, Monday)

COT (weekly, Friday)

2 UBS

Faster US grain harvests than usual have been exerting downward pressure on
prices in the short run, which have reversal potential at a later stage.

Investors’ net long positions in grain futures are still at high levels, but stable

Preference: neutral

Recommendations

Tactical

e Despite the recent setback in corn prices,
risk-seeking investors should still hold on
to long positions in corn. Demand
rationing is still required to limit the drag
on inventories. The expected return
target for a long position in corn stands
at 15%.

Strategic

e Our expected return outlook for grains
stands at around -10% over the next 12
months. With grain prices not far below
historical highs, the supply side is highly
likely to expand meaningfully in 2013/14
and pressurize prices at a later stage. On
the soft side, 3Q12 does not offer the
right timing to build up positions.

US grains stocks continue to drop,
demand remains resilient

Values in mn tons

50

40

30 |

20 | [/

Ist Sep'10 1st Sep'11 1st Sep'12 Jun-

Aug'11

Jun-
Aug'10

Jun-
Aug'12

Demand
m Soybean

Stocks

mcCorn a Wheat

Source: USDA, UBS, as of Oct. 2012
Note: Past performance is not an indication of future returns.

For further information please contact ClO's asset class specialists Dominic Schnider, dominic.schnider@ubs.com or Giovanni Staunovo, giovanni.staunovo@ubs.com

Please see important disclaimer and disclosures at the end of the document.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025285
