A Single Point of Failure | 245

during his next fifteen days in Hong Kong would not likely escape
China’s scrutiny.

The United States had the ability to also follow Snowden’s move-
ments via the cell phones of his lawyers and other confederates
after he surfaced. All tracking could be done by the NSA. What the
United States lacked was any practical means to capture a high-
profile intelligence defector in a city that was part of China. By this
time, U.S. intelligence had established that Chinese and Hong Kong
security services were monitoring Snowden’s every move. This left
few options in the game for the United States. “I’m not going to
be scrambling jets to get a twenty-nine-year-old hacker,” President
Obama said on June 27.

The real prize, in any case, was not Snowden but the NSA’s secret
documents that he had with him. When Snowden was observed
entering the Russian consulate, the game was all but over. U.S. dip-
lomats could protest over back channels to Moscow, as they did, but
with a trove of NSA secrets at stake there was little expectation that
would stop the Russians. Two days later, the “single point of failure,”

© as Snowden described himself, was on his way to Russia, where his ©
hosts would be calling the shots.

When a victory is obtained in a major sports event, it is cause for
public celebrations. The opposite is true in espionage. An intelligence
victory involving secret documents, even if it cannot be entirely
hidden, is kept veiled, as far as is possible, to increase the value of
the coup. “The final move in any sophisticated intelligence game,”
Angleton told me in relation to espionage intelligence, is “obscuring
a success.”

Following Angleton’s precept, the Russian or Chinese intelli-
gence services, if they had a role in acquiring the product of the self-
described “single point of failure,” would work to cover their tracks in
the affair even before the Aeroflot plane carrying Snowden touched
down at Sheremetyevo International Airport on June 23. If any false
flag operations had been used to trick, mislead, or otherwise induce
Snowden to come to Hong Kong, they would be disbanded. If any
safe house had been used to quarter Snowden in his first eleven days
in Hong Kong, it would be shut down. If any operatives had been

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.indd 245 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019733
