may partition the space of values taken by the journey of the orbital action
generated by the equation over time with rectangular grids of increasing fineness.
The result is an equipartition of phase space such that there is at most one orbital
point in each rectangle of the grid, with, of course, many rectangles in the finer grids
being empty. This final grid partition is called a generating partition. The proportion
of the available boxes of the partition occupied by points is called its area or volume
measure. This measure has been given a variety of names including Liouville, Haar
and Lesbegue measures. lf every box is occupied, it has measure one. If at most
one box, it has measure zero. If we allow partitions to be non-uniform and/or not
fine enough to be generating and apply probability weightings for how many points
fall into each particular box of the grid, the method is called the Sinai-Ruelle-Bowen
or SRB measure after Kolmogorov’s students and followers, the Russian, Ya Sinai,
the Belgian Frenchmen, David Ruelle and the American, Rufus Bowen.

Similar to the SRB measure, the distribution of box occupancy probabilities
multiplied by their logarithms and summed over all cells of the partition yields a
statistical measure that is close to the informational entropy of Claude Shannon as
described above. It is called the metric entropy ( Hy = -X(p; In(pi)), where H means
entropy and gj; is the proportion of the total observations that occupy cell i of the
phase space or state space partition. It was the above noted Russian father of
modern dynamical systems, Kolmogorov, who in 1956 proved that the Shannon
metric entropy is a quantifiable invariant of systems even in very complicated
motion. Stanford University's Donald Ornstein won a Field’s Medal (the under forty
year old mathematician’s Nobel Prize) for his late 1960’s work proving that the
Shannon metric entropy, Hy, was the only invariant for a large class of appropriately
defined, expansive (near by points separating in time) dynamical systems. Recall
that we refer to metric entropy reflecting the relative occupancy as probability
among the possible boxes (or states) as Hy. Hy is maximal when the percentage
occupancy of all occupied boxes is uniform.

IBM’s Roy Adler in New York and Brian Marcus in California, Hebrew
University’s Benjamin Weiss, Warwick University’s English mathematicians, William

Parry, Peter Walters, Mark Pollicott and others developed and proved the relevance

83

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013583
