even when subjects respond to names commonly associated with Caucasian and Black people. A quick
skim through the many blogs commenting on this work reveals a common refrain that makes the key
point: many that have taken this test, whether focusing on race, sexual orientation, or political affiliation,
opine that the test must be invalid because they explicitly disavow any groupish biases. But that’s the
point! What we disavow explicitly has less impact than we would like on what we hold implicitly.

If our implicit system champions one view of racism and our explicit system another, then we are
continuously faced with an epic conflict. To resolve this conflict, and enable the explicit system to emerge
triumphant, requires self-control, keeping the implicit system quiet. Studies of the brain provide
interesting insights into this process. Recall that when we experience conflict, regardless of its content,
there is activation in the anterior cingulate. When we exert self-control, regardless of content, there is
activation in particular regions within the prefrontal cortex. When we feel threatened by a dangerous
animal or person, there is activation in the amygdala. These three brain regions tell an interesting story
about how we process race. When Caucasian subjects view faces of Black as opposed to Caucasian
people staring at them, there is greater activation in the amygdala. This racial difference disappears if
subjects view photos of faces looking away or with eyes closed. It is the potentially threatening aspect of
a face staring at you that engages the racial difference. If you briefly flash faces at Caucasian subjects so
that they are unaware of them, there is stronger activation in the amygdala for Black than Caucasian
faces. But if you present the faces for long enough, allowing them to enter conscious awareness, the
amyegdala’s pattern of activity goes away, replaced instead by strong activation in the anterior cingulate
and prefrontal cortex. Staring longer at someone from a different race triggers a sense of conflict and
engages the system of self-control, pushing down our implicit racism to enable more explicit neutrality
and equality.

What this work shows is that understanding our attitudes and actions toward those of the same
and different race requires consideration of implicit and explicit components. Think of this process like a
hand pushing down on an automatic watering fountain. The machinery that produces the pressure to push
water out of the holes in the fountain operates without concern for what happens outside in the world. The
hand that pushes down is under human control, consciously guided, perhaps with the aim of simply
spreading the water or feeling its’ coolness on a hot day. Though the hand may try to control the
movement of the water, it may only do so to some extent, guided by the power of the automatic engine
below. Thus, we have an automatic bottom up mechanism and a controlled top down mechanism. So it is
with race. The bottom up mechanism operates automatically, pushing forward our implicit prejudice. The
top down mechanism attempts to exert control, when and where it can, to avoid looking racist, sexist, or

what have you. Somewhere, the two meet, creating a personality profile that is more explicitly racist,

Hauser Chapter 3. Ravages of denial 99

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012845
