158 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

The CIA also had its share of long-term successes, such as Alex-
ander Poteyev, who fed the CIA secrets for over ten years while
burrowing into Russian intelligence. In the choreography of these
operations, as in Le Carré’s fiction, rival intelligence services ensnared
and sacrificed recruits, as if playing a chess game, to advance their
moles. Despite notable successes such as Felfe and Poteyev, a great
number of these elaborate conspiracies fail to insinuate a mole into
their adversaries’ confidence. Intelligence services therefore also
take advantage of a more prosaic source: the self-generated spy, or,
as they are called in the trade, a “walk-in.”

Although they are largely unsung in novels, these walk-ins are an
important part of espionage. A counterespionage review done for the
Presidential Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board (PFIAB) in 1990
found that most U.S. spies in the Cold War had taken documents on
their own volition and only afterward offered them to an adversary
service. Self-generated spies have diverse motives. Some intelligence
workers steal secrets for financial gain. Others take them to further
an ideological interest. As opportunistic enterprises, intelligence ser-

© vices do not turn walk-ins away if they have valuable intelligence. ©
Indeed, some of the most successful moles were not recruited, or even
controlled, by spy agencies. They were self-generated penetrations,
or “espionage sources,” as the KGB preferred to call them, who first
stole secrets and later voluntarily delivered them to an adversary.

Hanssen, who successfully penetrated the FBI for the Russian
intelligence services from 1979 to 2001, according to the assessment
of a 2002 presidential commission, had caused “the worst intelli-
gence disaster in US history.” Eleven years later, George Ellard, a
former NSA inspector general who had been a member of that com-
mission, compared Hanssen with Snowden “in that they both used
very well-honed IT abilities to steal and disclose classified informa-
tion vital to our national security.”

It is also possible to exploit a walk-in even after he has left his
service. For example, the KGB major Anatoliy Golitsyn was an ideo-
logical self-generated spy who walked into the U.S. embassy in Hel-
sinki on December 15, 1961. He asked to see the CIA officer on duty
and announced to him that he had collected a trove of KGB secrets,
including information that could identify its key spies in the West.

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 158 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019646
