10. Is Epstein cooperating with federal suit against Bear Stearns hedge fund managers Ralph Cioffi
and Matthew Tannin? Will he testify in their cases?

11. Mr Epstein was deposed on this week, on Thursday. Is it true that he answered almost every
question by invoking his Fifth Amendment rights?

12. Defense attorney Brad Evans has filed a motion to freeze Mr Epstein’s assets. Has Mr.
Epstein moved his money from the US offshore or abroad, or does he intend to, in order to
protect his assets from possible damage claims?

13. What did Mr. Epstein do during his work release program while serving time. Reports have
said he engaged in “scientific research.” If so, what was he researching?

14. Has Mr. Epstein returned to pursuing his investment business? Is Mr Epstein still on
probation?

15. Is Mr. Epstein permitted to leave Florida or the United States? Do authorities hold his
passport?

You can reach me via e-mail or at 212-210-1536 or 917-952-4052. We close our column at 3
pm on Friday but can add comments as late as 3 pm on Saturday. Many thanks.

George

This transmission is intended only for the use of the addressee and may contain
information that is confidential, privileged and/or exempt from disclosure under
applicable law. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any
dissemination, distribution or copying of the information contained herein is strictly
unauthorized and prohibited. If you have received this communication in error, please
notify the sender immediately and delete this message. Thank you.

BS Df 24S IS DIS IS 24S BIS DIS BIS iS DIS IC 24K BIS DIS 5S 2S DIS IC OIC BIS DIS DIC 2k DIS Ig 24K BIS DIC 3IC DiC DIS ik DIC BIC DIC DIS DiC DIC ik 24S SOIR FIC DI DIC 2k OIC iS 2IC IC 2c IC 2k 2I6 ik 2k ic

The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of

Jeffrey Epstein

Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited
and may be unlawful. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and
destroy this communication and all copies thereof,
including all attachments.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031101
