and let each economist decide which version is more useful. Mine, at least, correctly

describes those same four years as losing ones.

National Accounts Overall

It seems to me that national accounts are doing nothing wrong except in modeling
the depreciation curve from misleading sales evidence. Evidence seems to show
depreciation as fast at first, and slower later. That tends to be true when depreciable
assets are actually sold. Structures tend to be customized for their original owners
and occupants. They tend to be resold when results are disappointing. This
disappointment often comes when expectations are first tested. When distressed
sellers market illiquid structures customized for themselves, prices too will be

disappointing.

Better to trust evidence of structures intended in the first place to pass from owner
to owner, as with many standardized rather than customized apartment and office
and warehouse buildings. Better still, from an economist’s viewpoint if not an
accountant’s, is to trust logic. Capital is present value of expected cash flow. Its loss
of value with time, under simplifying assumptions, is the present value of the most
distant and most discounted cash flow. Depreciation of structures we keep, rather
than sell, is least at first and greatest at the end. It is the same as with a level-

payment mortgage.

National accounts are nonetheless a magnificent achievement. They need
interpretation just as corporate accounts do. That’s where economics comes in. And
national accounts are not resting on past practices. They can be congratulated on
including market valued capital, even if sixty years too late, and on extrapolating it
backward where practical. This book could scarcely have been written if they hadn’t.
I would recommend the obvious next step. Net investment should be shown
alternatively as change in market-valued, and output as that plus consumption. Let

economists decide which version is good for what.

Chapter 8 Banks, Money and Macroeconomics 2/8/16 21

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011110
