6/15/2016
Epstein’s many Hollywood pals include Matt Groening, creator of The Simpsons.
‘Jeffrey once had me give Matt a foot massage when he was flying on the jet with us,’ Virginia says.
‘He laughed and did drawings of Bart and Homer for my little brother and my dad.

‘lL also met Naomi Campbell at a birthday party of hers on a yacht in the South of France. She is a
friend of Ghislaine’s but she was a real bitch to me.

She was very fake. She turned away from me when we were introduced by Ghislaine and Jeffrey.

‘Donald Trump was aiso a good friend of Jeffrey's. He didn’t partake in sex with any of us but he
flirted with me. He'd laugh and tell Jeffrey, “You've got the life.” '

Palm Beach Police say Epstein seemed utterly unfazed by the allegations against him when they
began their long and detailed investigation.

‘Jeffrey's craw: Middle East peace envoy George Mitchell, right, pictured with President Barack Obama and

But he also took his defence very seriously indeed. Epstein engaged his friend, the Harvard law
professor Alan Dershowitz — whose celebrity clients have included Mike Tyson, Patty Hearst, Claus
von Bulow and O.J. Simpson ~ to run his legal defence.

He aiso employed a firm of private investigators to investigate the backgrounds of the girls.

Detectives painstakingly built a case which they believed showed that Epstein systematically paid
teenage girls to recruit other teenage girls to his sex ring.

However, as the investigation continued, they found that Epstein’s team had already spoken to key
witnesses, suggesting that the financier would reward those who helped him.

In addition, Epstein's defence team agreed to the unusual move of suggesting that the alleged
victims sue Epstein in the civil courts. The result was a plea bargain in which Epstein admitted a
single charge of soliciting an underage girl for prostitution ~ a deal which infuriated many police
officers who worked on the case.

More than 20 of Epstein’s girls are said to have sued him for damages. At least 17 have settled out
of court.

Mr Clinton, Mr Gore and Mr Mitchell were all contacted about their friendship with Epstein but
declined to comment.

Share or comment on this article

hitp:/Avww.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-1363452/Bill-Clinton- 15-year-old-masseuse-|-met-twice-claims-Epsteins-girl html

U.S. Secretary of State Hilary Clinton, frequently visited Epsteings New York residence, Virginia also claims

Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 539-2 Filed 01/06/17 Page5of5
Case 1:15 Gyo 7ahehs RWS oC yercerraerin 2 Hie sGicer pings BG I/9:6! Depa! Spline 5

show - but admits the
presidential hopeful
wasn't going to come on
anyway

WITS

Real Housewives of
Beverly Hills to ‘bring
back privacy’ to her life
after dramatic season
that documented her
divorce and accusations
she was faking iliness

Victoria Beckham
shows a hint of sideboob
and flash of leg as she
flaunts her sartorial
sass for cover of Vogue
Korea
Striking shoot

A mellow day! Rumer
Willis dresses downina
grey maxi dress as she
hangs out with a friend
in West Hollywood
Taking a break from the
presidential campaign

Catherine Zeta-Jones’
daughter Carys is her
doppelganger as the
pair arrive in London
with Michael Douglas
and son Dylan
Family trip

Stephen Colbert
compares Trump toa
NAZI as he draws a
swastika on chalkboard
while trying to ‘figure
out’ Obama’s response
to Orlando massacre

Grieving Adam Levine
is pictured playing golf
in first outing since
Christina Grimmie's
death... after offering to
pay for the Voice star’s
funeral

Does North West have
her own glam squad?
Kim Kardashian ‘hires
daughter $5k a week
team including
hairstylist and
manicurist’

The smile’s back!
Demi Lovato appears
happy at airport while
looking chic in olive coat
as she recovers from
Wilmer Valderrama
shock split
Wore classic combo

‘Fm not killing off
Harrigon Ford’: Steven
Spielberg reveals he
won't end Indiana Jonas’
life in next film as he
gives rare interview
Good news for Ford!

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014672
