system. There are some early indicators of international economic recovery. Yet, I cannot predict that the
global economic recovery will proceed without potential hurdles. I cannot also claim that repercussions of the
economic financial meltdown are over yet. But what I can say is that the worst is already behind us, and there is
now a solid will and determination among concerned countries to join hands to collectively revive the global
economy as well as their own individual economies.

Increasing financial support to other business sectors is probable, pending the actual needs of each particular
sector. The UAE’s tourism sector is ina good shape, with UAE hotels recording high occupancy rates. The
country’s tourism industry has already successful survived the worst period and resiliently adapted itself during
the most critical times.

PAUL STOBER, Gulf News

What are the main strengths and weaknesses of the UAE, as it faces the challenge of the
global economic slowdown? What are the particular challenges that Dubai faces as it
positions itself as a global business centre?

The UAE’s strengths are numerous. The UAE’s success in facing the global financial crisis and alleviating its
impact on the Emirati economy is the most conspicuous=2 Oevidence of these strengths. The country enjoys a
leading ranking position in several fields such as productivity, environment, connectivity, and transformation
to knowledge economy. Yet the failure to match best international practices in these fields might be considered
a major weakness. We always benchmark ourselves against the best. I always say that we have just embarked
on a long journey of hard work to fulfil our promised sustainable development through a series of strategic
projects to be established during the years to come.

DURAID AL BAIK, Gulf News:

Do you feel that Dubai needs an efficient auditing body to investigate and curb
corruption in financial institutions before things become too bad? How more the UAE
can move faster in fighting corruption and promoting transparency?

There is already a government financial audit department. The department has a track record of successful
performance, and it has done very well with investigations related to corruption cases. Enhancing financial
auditing systems and capabilities is undoubtedly important and that is exactly what we are doing now. As for
promoting transparency in fighting corruption, I confirm that the UAE is completely committed to highest
levels of transparency. There is no room for corrupt officials and citizens among us. Handling corruption cases
does not mean prosecuting judging and penalising corrupt individuals only; it also aims at filling all
administrative and legal loopholes that=2 Ohave been used to breach the law.

By Al Bayan newspaper

When will the term “remote” (rural) areas disappear from the everyday vocabulary of
the UAE?

The UAE does not have remote areas in the negative connotation of the word. We only have areas that are
relatively remote from urban centers. The urban planning of these areas has to be based on scientific research to
carefully identify means of providing best efficient services to local residents.

There are sometimes exaggerated reports depicting these areas as if they are utterly deprived of basic services

while their residents live in appalling conditions. Sometimes, one reads press reports demanding a school to be
built in an area that has no more than 50 homes, while there is a school only few kilometers away with available

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024951
