Edwards, Bradley vs. Dershowitz

Case No.: CACE 15-000072

Edwards and Cassells Response to Dershowitz's Motion to Determine Confidentiality of Court Records
Page 12 of 20

Scarola) and Dershowitz’s extended answer are quoted in full— including Dershowitz’s
reference to the oral sex allegation that he now argues this Court should treat as “confidential”:

Q. [Y]ou [are] aware that years before December of 2014, when the
CVRA pleading was filed, that your name had come up repeatedly in
connection with Jeffrey Epstein’s abuse of minors, correct? . . .

A. Let me answer that question. I am aware that never before 2014,
end of December, was it ever, ever alleged that I had acted in any
way inappropriately with regard to Virginia [Giuffre], that I ever
touched her, that I ever met her, that Ihad ever been with her. I was
completely aware ofthat. There had never been any
allegation. She claims under oath that she told you that secretly in
2011, but you have produced no notes of any such conversation.
You, of course, are a witness to this allegation and will be deposed
asa witness to this allegation. I believe it is an entirely false
allegation that she told you in 2011 that she had had any sexual
contact with me. I think she’s lying through her teeth when she
says that. And I doubt that your notes will reveal any such
information.

But if she did tell you that, she would be absolutely, categorically
lying. So I am completely aware that never, until the lies were put
in a legal pleading at the end of December 2014, it was
never alleged that I had any sexual contact with Virginia Roberts.

I know that it was alleged that I was a witness to Jeffrey Epstein's
alleged abuse and that was false. | was never a witness to any of
Jeffrey Epstein's sexual abuse. And I wrote that to you, something
that you have falsely denied. And I stand on the record. The record
is clear that I have categorically denied I was ever a witness to
any abuse, that | ever saw Jeffrey Epstein abusing anybody.

And -- and the very idea that I would stand and talk to Jeffrey
Epstein while he was receiving oral sex from Virginia Roberts,
which she swore to under oath, is so outrageous, so preposterous,
that even David Boies said he couldn’t believe it was true.

MS. McCAWLEY: I object. I object. I'm not going to allow you to reveal
any conversations that happened in the context of a settlement discussion.

THE WITNESS: Does she have standing?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015632
