of non-familial sociality, we may now
add physiological benefits. A 1979
population-based study showed that
adults lacking social ties were 1.9 to 3.1
times more likely to die during a 9-year
follow-up than those who had more
social contacts, all else being equal (2).
Since then, at least five population-based
prospective studies (3) and numerous
smaller studies have found positive
associations between social integration
and either survival or improved health
outcomes. The mechanisms by which
social integration enhances survival are
several and include improved health
behaviors, increased access to resources
and material goods, and strengthened
immunity against infection (4).

Whereas sociality is a normal
state, loneliness is an unusual state, akin
to hunger, thirst, or pain (5). As with
those states, loneliness is unpleasant and
serves to remind us that we should
change the status quo. Therefore,
loneliness can be an adaptive motivator
for increased social surveillance and
interaction. Unfortunately, not all
individuals succeed at achieving the
level of social connectedness they desire
and suffer instead from chronic feelings
of loneliness. Cacioppo and others have
shown that lonely individuals interpret
events and social interactions more
negatively than non-lonely individuals.
As aresult, they unconsciously develop
defense mechanisms, including social
barriers, which shield them from insults
and rejection. While this approach may
achieve its goals of self-protection, it
also reduces opportunities for positive
social interactions and perpetuates
feelings of social isolation (5). John
Bunyan, a 17” century Christian writer
and preacher, described the barriers
associated with loneliness when he
wrote of a vision in which he

131

Page

“saw the people set on the sunny
side of some high mountain,
there refreshing themselves with
the pleasant beams of the sun,
while I was shivering and
shrinking in the cold, afflicted
with frost, snow, and dark
clouds. Methought, also, betwixt
me and them, I saw a wall that

did compass about this mountain

(6).”

For chronically lonely people,
the wall between themselves and others
is partly of their own making and
reflects continuous surveillance for
negative signals from others (5). The
challenge is to help lonely individuals
break down the barriers between
themselves and others and ultimately
return to the normal state of sociality. In
his vision, Bunyan achieved this, but
only through great effort:

“About this wall I thought
myself, to go again and again,
still prying as I went, to see if I
could find some way or passage,
by which I might enter therein,
but none could I find for some
time. At the last, I saw, as it
were, a narrow gap, like a little
doorway in the wall, through
which I attempted to pass; but the
passage being very strait and
narrow, I made many efforts to
get in, but all in vain, even until I
was well-nigh quite beat out, by
striving to get in; at last, with
great striving, methought I at first
did get in my head, and after that,
by a sidling striving, my
shoulders, and my whole body;
then I was exceeding glad, and
went and sat down in the midst
of them, and so was comforted
with the light and heat of their
sun (6).”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021377
