The following week was a daily routine, providing Jeffrey with
massages and continuously being groomed to fulfil] all his needs. Often
joined by Ms. Maxwell and her assistant Emmy for sexual trysts of all
kinds. I was mentally and physically exhausted from the week of working
and having to keep up with Jeffrey's strenuous late night activities. I
couldn’t believe what I was doing but it was all starting to sink in fast.
Most nights when | got home, I’d briefly say “Hi” to Mom and Dad
before heading straight to my bedroom. I couldn’t even sleep well
anymore. Closing my eyes at night I would fight the inevitable flood of
thoughts, replaying the moments of shame that ate away myself piece by
piece. My only reasoning being | just had to keep telling myself it would
all be worth it in the end.

This afternoon Ghislane appeared to be in a much better mood. Instead
of taking me straight up to Jeffrey she took me to a yellow guest room
where Emmy mostly stayed. It had a balcony where Emmy was already
outside reading a magazine and puffing on a cigarette. Ghislane lit one up
too and then offered me one. I hadn’t smoked cigarettes much before,
besides trying to look cool in front of one of my friends, but never really
took to them, so when | started to cough from the inhalation of smoke,
the girls began to laugh and joke about my in-experience. It was an
icebreaker for all of us to laugh and poke fun at me. I was then able to
give it back to them saying I would rather be an in-experienced non-
smoker than an old lady with a raspy smokers cough. | don’t think
Ghislane was used to somebody giving it back to her, but she seemed to
like it, as long as she was able to have the last say. | knew my boundaries
and she liked that I wouldn’t cross those invisible lines. All three of us
chatted like friends and it started to feel like some kind of a strange
relationship was budding. After about fifteen minutes of chatting away,
Ghislane instructed me to wash my hands thoroughly, as Jeffrey hated the
smell of smokers, and to follow her down the hallway to the massage
room where he’ll be expecting me shortly. I did what she asked and
sprayed myself with the body spray that I always carried in my purse and
headed down the hall to Jeffrey’s room.

When I opened the door to the massage room surprisingly it was empty.
I sat down on the already made up massage table and was careful not to
mess up the neatly folded towels on the end of the bed. It was a good
fifteen more minutes before Jeffrey made his appearance. It was strange
seeing him in clothes for the first time. He wasn’t wearing what you’d
expect your typical billionaire’s attire to be. He was wearing a pair of
sweatpants and a Harvard sweatshirt, which he began to remove
immediately. This time he wanted to commence our session in the steam
room, so | began to undress as well. We went into the steam room and he
pushed a few buttons and the steam began to pour in from the marble

31

UI Copyright Protected Material
CONTIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004 164

wall’s built in jets. There was a bench coming out of the wall also made
out of marble that went from either side of the room and had a step
underneath it where I was instructed to sit on so that I could begin giving
Jeffery his massage. Our conversation started off about simple things like
how was your day at work, and I asked Jeffrey how his day was lounging
around, just being polite to cach other. He was acting out of character
being a lot more attentive and conversing with me about other things than
sex or massages for once. Starting with his heels, ankles, toes and arches
in the soles of his feet I massaged all the way up to his calves. It took a
lot more strength to massage in the steam room without oils or lotions
and the constant blowing of steam in your face making me twice as
exerted. | was beginning to really start to heat up when the door to the
room suddenly opened to reveal two naked women. Ghislane and Emmy
acted as if they came in to join us for a steam bath, but my instincts were
telling me otherwise. At least the cold burst of air and escaped steam
revived me a bit.

So there was Jeffrey and Ghislane sitting on top of this marble bench,
each with a young girl at their feet. Emmy and I continued with the
massage until they were ready to head into the shower. There were two
showerheads that Ghislane and Jeffrey both stood under while they were
being lathered with soap bubbles as we washed their bodies. After the
shower Ghislane led us into Jeffrey’s bed to finish today’s session with
Emmy, Ghislane and I performing lesbian acts of foreplay on each other
while Jeffrey laid back and watched. Stroking his manhood in much
delight, he brought himself to climax, and the session was over within
moments. We all got dressed and went downstairs to the kitchen for some
refreshments. Like nothing had happened at all, it was all so bizarre for
me, the whole ordeal with them since this all began. | couldn’t understand
why Ghislane and Jeffrey had such an openly intimate relationship but
yet never regarded themselves as partners. They rarely kissed and never
held hands or even slept in the same bed. It was more like a sexual
arrangement between the two of them. She brings in the girls for his
peculiar taste and he supplies the lavish lifestyle she was accustomed too
before her family lost all of their fortunes. I wasn’t sure how to act or
feel, always obliging to their needs but reserved enough not to get
attached, as if there was this invisible hierarchy and by instinct I knew
my place.

We all hung out in the kitchen for a while before | asked when Juan
could bring me home as I had work in the morning and was tired. They
said no problem and called Juan on the intercom right away, but said
we'd all have something to talk about tomorrow. | knew it had something
to do with my employment trial and from the way they were acting
tonight, I could only assume I got the job, but you never know with these

32

0 Copyright Protected Material

GIULEFRE0G4 163

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021160
