exchanged some emails. He said that he prefers to do a per meet of $300 -- he called it
a per meet -- I told him that was too low and quoted him $1,000, and he said he'd meet
me in the middle. Another guy told me that he would just slip $400 into my purse when
he saw me, and that's exactly what he did.

I have one client I've never explicitly discussed money with at all. I had lunch with him,
and we didn't negotiate anything, though we talked a little bit about our reasons for being
on the site. The next time I saw him -- we were deciding where to meet, and he asked if
he should get us a room. I said that I would like that, so I met him and we had sex. He
knew it was my birthday soon, so as we were getting dressed, he said, I know we haven't
talked about money, so I got you some birthday spending money, and he handed me an
envelope with $400. The next time I saw him, he asked about my plans for the evening. I
said I was having dinner with a friend, and he handed me $400 in an envelope and said,
Maybe this will help pay for it. I'm lucky that I'm willing to accept $400 -- it's my
lower bound, but I'm willing to accept it. Imagine if I hadn't been willing to take $400 --
that would be super awkward. Probably I should have negotiated that situation more
clearly, but it worked out okay.

I've heard about situations where unclear negotiations did not work out okay. There was a
New York Times Magazine article about the site published in 2009. In that article, there
were some examples of unclear negotiations that didn't work out well. But it sounded like
that woman didn't really know what she wanted, and didn't really enjoy the work. But I
do. And I know other women who do, too.

I have a new client who paid me $3,000 up front to see me 3 times a month. But I haven't
heard from him since our first meeting. If I were his girlfriend, I'd call him, but he asked
me not to call him. So I don't really know what the deal with that one is. Maybe he's
gonna flake out on me, but he already gave me $3,000, so that would be weird.

Clarisse Thorn: So, your husband. You mentioned him briefly. How does your
husband feel about this?

Olivia: He does not seem particularly threatened. We already have an open relationship. I
think he sometimes feels very visceral jealousy, but that's just like any other time one of
us has sex with somebody else. We just have to talk about it.

Part of the deal here is that I'm doing this because I'm broke. My husband really wants to
be able to support me financially, but he can't right now, so I'm supporting both us doing
this. I think that's a real blow to his ego. To the extent that he gets bothered, I think it's
because I'm allowing other men to support me and give me money; he doesn't care about
the sex. Even though I see this as work, he sees this as here's this rich successful guy
who just gave my wife a bunch of money, and she slept with him -- so probably she's
attracted to him.

I am kind of attracted to my clients, and I kind of get off on making them happy, and I
happen to think that the age difference is kind of hot. I like having sex with them; it's not
unpleasant. I like hearing about these guys’ life stories. I think it's interesting. But these
guys would never be a threat to my husband. I would never be sleeping with any of them
except for the money. And I love my husband. I'm always very up front about the fact

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018613
