Federal Register/Vol. 76, No. 168/Tuesday, August 30, 2011/Rules and Regulations

54019

The proposed Appendix to Subpart A
included Board contact information and
basic enforcement procedures to enable
employees to learn more about their
NLRA rights and how to enforce them.
Thus, the required notice confirmed that
unlawful conduct will not be permitted,
provided information about the Board
and about filing a charge with the
Board, and stated that the Board will
prosecute violators of the NLRA. The
notice also indicated that there is a 6-
month statute of limitations for filing
charges with the Board alleging
violations and provided Board contact
information. The Board invited
suggested additions or deletions to these
provisions that would improve the
content of the notice of employee rights.
Id.

The content of the proposed notice
received more comments than any other
single topic in the proposed rule. But of
the thousands of comments that address
the content of the notice, the majority
are either very general, or identical or
nearly identical form letters or
“postcard” comments sent in response
to comment initiatives by various
interest groups, including those
representing employers, unions, and
employee rights organizations. Many
comments from both individuals and
organizations offer general support for
the content of the proposed notice,
stating that employee awareness of basic
legal rights will promote a fair and just
workplace, improve employee morale,
and foster workforce stability, among
other benefits.97 More specifically, one
comment asserts that the proposed
notice ‘‘contains an accurate,
understandable and balanced
presentation of rights.” 98 The United
Transportation Union contends that the
“notice presents an understandable,
concise and extremely informative
recitation of workers’ rights, without
getting bogged down in extraneous
language, incomprehensible legalese or
innumerable caveats and exceptions.”

Other comments were less supportive
of the content of the proposed notice
and the notice-posting requirement in
general. A significant number of
comments, including those from many
individuals, employers, and employer
industry and interest groups, argue that
the content of the notice is not balanced,
and appears to promote unionization
instead of employee freedom of
association. In particular, many
comments state that Section 7 of the

°7 See comments of the National Immigration Law
Center, Service Employees International Union, and
Weinberg, Roger & Rosenfeld.

°8 Comment of David Fusco, a labor and
employment attorney.

NLRA includes the right to refrain from
union activity, but claim that this right
is given little attention in comparison to
other rights in the proposed notice.
Several comments also argue that the
proposed notice excludes rights
associated with an anti-union position,
including the right to seek
decertification of a bargaining
representative, the right to abstain from
union membership in “‘right-to-work”’
states, and rights associated with the
Supreme Court’s decision in
Communications Workers v. Beck.°°
Comments also suggest that the notice
should include a warning to employees
that unionizing will result in a loss of
the right to negotiate directly with their
employer.1°° Many of these comments
argue that a neutral government position
on unionization would be more
inclusive of anti-union rights.1°

A number of comments address the
issue of complexity, and argue that the
Board’s attempt to summarize the law is
flawed because the Board’s decisional
law is too complex to condense into a
single workplace notice.1°2 Some of the
comments addressing this issue note
that NLRA law has been developed over
75 years, and involves interpretations by
both the NLRB and the Federal courts,
sometimes with conflicting results. The
Chamber of Commerce cites the
““NLRB’s Basic Guide to the National
Labor Relations Act: General Principles
of Law Under the Statute and
Procedures of the National Labor
Relations Board” (Basic Guide to the
NLRA) (1997), available at http://
www.nirb.gov/publications/brochures,
to make their point about legal
complexity. In the Foreword to the
Basic Guide to the NLRA, the Board’s
General Counsel states that ‘‘[alny effort
to state basic principles of law ina
simple way is a challenging and
unenviable task. This is especially true
about labor law, a relatively complex
field of law.”’ The thrust of these
comments about legal complexity was
that the NLRA is complex, dynamic,
and nuanced, and any attempt to
summarize it in a workplace notice will
result in an oversimplification of the
law and lead to confusion,
misunderstanding, inconsistencies, and
some say, heightened labor-management
antagonism. Moreover, some comments
express concern that Board member
turnover could result in changes to the

99 See comments of Pilchak, Cohen & Tice,
American Trucking Association, and Electrical and
Mechanical Systems Inc.

100 See, e.g. comment of the Heritage Foundation.

101 See, e.g., comment of the National Right to
Work Committee.

102 See, e.g., comment of COLLE, Retail Industry
Leaders Association.

law, which may require frequent
updates to the notice.1%

Many comments suggest that the
required notice should include only the
specific rights contained in Section 7 of
the NLRA or, at most, the rights and
obligations stated in employee
aclvisories on the NLRB’s Web site. The
comments favoring a more general
notice suggest that the detailed list of
rights far exceeds the “‘short and plain”
description of rights that the Board has
found sufficient to “clearly and
effectively inform employees of their
rights under the Act’’ in unfair labor
practice cases.1°4 See Ishikawa Gasket
America, Inc., 337 NLRB 175 (2001),
enfd. 354 F.3d 534 (6th Cir. 2004). A
comment from Fisher & Phillips LLP
argues that, under the Board’s current
remedial practices, only an employer
that egregiously violates the Act on
numerous occasions is required to post
such an inclusive list of rights.

Finally, a number of comments
suggest that the notice should include a
list of employer rights, namely the right
to distribute anti-union literature and
the right to discuss the company’s
position regarding unions.

In addition to the general comments
about the proposed notice, many
comments offer suggestions for specific
revisions to individual provisions
within the five sections of the proposed
notice: the introduction, the statement
of affirmative rights, the examples of
unlawful conduct, the collective-
bargaining provision, and the coverage
information. The following discussion
presents the comments related to
individual provisions of the notice,
followed by the Board’s decisions
regarding the content of the final notice
made in response to those comments.

a. Comments Regarding the Introduction

The introduction to the notice of
rights in the proposed rule stated:

The National Labor Relations Act (NLRA)
guarantees the right of employees to organize
and bargain collectively with their
employers, and to engage in other protected
concerted activity. Employees covered by the
NLRB are protected from certain types of
employer and union misconduct. This Notice
gives you general information about your
rights, and about the obligations of employers
under the NLRA. Contact the National Labor
Relations Board (NLRB), the Federal agency
that investigates and resolves complaints
under the NLRA, using the contact
information supplied below, if you have any
questions about specific rights that may
apply in your particular workplace.

103 See comment of Capital Associated Industries,
Inc. and National Association of Manufacturers.

104 See e.g. comments of COLLE and Coalition for
a Democratic Workplace.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022290
