—_,

KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP
stringent conditions—which Mr. Weinstein could only have learned from FAUSA
Sloman, AUSA Villafana or United States Attorney Acosta himself.

46. AUSA Weinstein then asked why Mr. Epstein should ... be treated differently than
anyone else. Mr. Thomas apparently stated that he understood that there was evidence
that the women had lied about their ages. AUSA Weinstein replied that this was not a
defense and that Mr. Thomas should not believe “the spin” of Mr. Epstein’s “high-priced
attorneys.” Indeed, Mr. Weinstein told Mr. Thomas that the USAO was very concerned
about a Palm Beach editorial that questioned whether Mr. Epstein would receive a rich
man’s justice. AUSA Weinstein then stated that, in fact, Mr. Epstein “doesn’t have a
defense.”

47. Mr. Epstein’s attorneys learned of the call and complained to the USAO. Counsel for
Mr. Epstein then had an in-person meeting with FAUSA Sloman and United States
Attorney Acosta describing these leaks to the New York Times. During Mr. Thomas’ next
call to the USAO, made two weeks later, AUSA Weinstein “admonished” him (in the
words of Mr. Thomas) for disclosing the contents of their prior conversation to the
defense, and strongly “reminded” Mr. Thomas that AUSA Weinstein’s prior comments
about Mr. Epstein had only been “hypothetical” in nature. That claim is sheer nonsense:
AUSA Weinstein had disclosed specific details of Mr. Epstein’s case, including plea
terms proposed by the defense, as revealed based on Mr. Thomas’s own
contemporaneous hand-written notes.

48. Shortly thereafter, Mr. Sloman wrote to the defense that Mr. Thomas was given, pursuant
to his request, non-case specific information concerning specific federal statutes.” See
Tab 37, February 27, 2008 Email from J. Sloman. Again, that claim was utterly false;
Mr. Thomas’s contemporaneous hand-written notes, reviewed by Jay Lefkowitz, confirm
that the USAO had violated settled Department policy and ethical rules by providing
case-specific information about the Department’s legal theories and plea negotiations.

Conclusion

We bring these difficult and delicate matters of misconduct to your attention not to
require any disciplinary action or review by the Office of Professional Responsibility. Although
we have been told that some of this misconduct has been self-reported (only after we raised these
complaints in writing), we feel confident that not all the facts were adequately presented. Rather,
we believe that they are highly relevant to your decision whether to authorize a federal
prosecution in this case. This pattern of overzealous prosecutorial activity strongly suggests
improper motives in targeting Jeffrey Epstein, not because of his actions (which are more
appropriately the subject of state prosecution), but, rather, because of who he is and who he
knows. We also bring this pervasive pattern of misconduct to your attention because we believe
it taints any ongoing federal prosecution. The misconduct pervades the evidence in this case.
The offers of financial inducement to witnesses, improperly encouraged by the government,
make their potential testimony suspect. The reliance on tainted evidence gathered by the state
will require a careful sorting out of poisonous fruits.

10

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012169
