66

government) perspective. While she acknowledges that there is not much diversity in
the nature of the views represented by ICAS—there is no overt criticism of Chinese
government policies—she is hopeful that once ICAS gains greater standing, it will be
able to attract senior scholars from other institutions with a greater range of views to
write for its website.

More recently, Chinese publishing entrepreneur Zhou Zhixing has established the
US-China New Perspectives Foundation, with offices in both Los Angeles and
Washington, DC. As of yet, these offices have no track record of activities or publications.
It is likely that more such think tanks initiated with or without formal Chinese
government support will follow in the United States.

Think-Tank Funding

Different US think tanks have different funding models. At least one type (Federally
Funded Research and Development Centers, or FFRDCs) is funded entirely by the
US government, while several others accept some US government funding, as well
as money from other governments on a contracted work basis. Three think tanks
interviewed accept no US or other government funding: One is funded entirely
by central operating funds from an endowment, while two others rely on a mix
of foundation and private support. One think tank’s work is funded entirely by
foundations. Most interviewees allow Chinese funders to pay for travel and meeting
costs to Beijing for conferences, while a few categorically do not—either because of
regulations or on the principle of conflict of interest.

At least one think tank differentiates between funding that is dedicated to its work

in Washington and that which supports its center in China. For the center in China,

a US-based scholar has raised funds from the China Development Bank, Huawei
Corporation, and private entrepreneurs from Hong Kong. This same think tank has a
“China Council” of donors (including Chinese Americans, but no Chinese nationals)
that supports the think tank’s activities. Some US institutions refuse to accept funds
from China-based commercial entities, although they are occasionally willing to
accept donations from their US-based subsidiaries. Other think tanks, however, accept
funds from Chinese corporations and individual businesspeople. One has taken money
from Alibaba America for a particular event celebrating the fifteenth anniversary of
WTO accession; another has taken money from the Chinese real estate firm Vanke for
a project on the environment. A Chinese businessman, Fu Chen, supports work at one
China center that also has several prominent Chinese businesspersons on its board.
One has an advisory council with Chinese Americans, and yet another think tank

is building an advisory council that will include Chinese, but only those who have
become American citizens. (This analyst is also considering accepting private Chinese
money but not money from Chinese state-owned enterprises.)

Think Tanks

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020525
