Roberto A. Soltero

Banco Popular de Puerto Rico
December 15, 2015

Page 3

Extraordinary Assumptions and Hypothetical Conditions

The value conclusions are subject to the following extraordinary assumptions that may affect the assignment
results. An extraordinary assumption is uncertain information accepted as fact. If the assumption is found to
be false as of the effective date of the appraisal, we reserve the right to modify our value conclusions.

1. The subject property has a fueling dock and four fuel storage tanks located on site; including three diesel
and one gasoline. There were no signs of contamination during our inspection and we have assumed that
there is no adverse environmental impact in connection with the existing fuel equipment used on the
subject property.

2. The parking garage at the subject slightly encroaches on the neighboring property to the immediate
northwest. This land is owned by the Government of the Virgin Islands and we have assumed that no claim
will arise from the encroachments.

3. For this analysis, we have valued the going concern interest in the subject property and have allocated the
value of the personal property from the value of the real property. We were provided with financial
statments from ownership that indicates the depreciated book value of these assets. Itis beyond our scope
to value these assets in use; therefore, we have assumed that the book values of teh personal property
items shown in the statments provided by ownership are reasonably accurate for the purpose of this
allocation exercise.

The value conclusions are based on the following hypothetical conditions that may affect the assignment
results. A hypothetical condition is a condition contrary to known fact on the effective date of the appraisal
but is supposed for the purpose of analysis.

1. No hypothetical conditions were employed in this analysis.

The opinions of value expressed in this report are based on estimates and forecasts that are
prospective in nature and subject to considerable risk and uncertainty. Events may occur
that could cause the performance of the property to differ materially from our estimates,
such as changes in the economy, interest rates, capitalization rates, financial strength of
tenants, and behavior of investors, lenders, and consumers. Additionally, our opinions and
forecasts are based partly on data obtained from interviews and third party sources, which
are not always completely reliable. Although we are of the opinion that our findings are
reasonable based on available evidence, we are not responsible for the effects of future
occurrences that cannot reasonably be foreseen at this time.

ire.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018808
