there is a constant structure with some activity going on inside it. When von Neumann’s
abstract machine reproduced, it made a copy of itself in another region of the plane.
Within the “machine” was a horizontal line of squares which acted as a finite linear tape,
using a subset of the finite alphabet. It was the symbols in those squares that encoded the
machine of which they were a part. During the machine’s reproduction, the “tape” could
move either left or right and was both interpreted (transcribed) as the instructions
(translation) for the new “machine” being built and then copied (replicated)—with the
new copy being placed inside the new machine for further reproduction. Francis Crick
and James Watson later showed, in 1953, how such a tape could be instantiated in
biology by along DNA molecule with its finite alphabet of four nucleobases: guanine,
cytosine, adenine, and thymine (G, C, A, and T).'* Asin von Neumann’s machine, in
biological reproduction the linear sequence of symbols in DNA is interpreted—through
transcription into RNA molecules, which then are translated into proteins, the structures
that make up a new cell—and the DNA is replicated and encased in the new cell.

A second foundational piece of work was in a 1945 “First Draft” report on the
design for a digital computer, wherein von Neumann advocated for a memory that could
contain both instructions and data.'4 This is now known as a von Neumann architecture
computer—as distinct from a Harvard architecture computer, where there are two
separate memories, one for instructions and one for data. The vast majority of computer
chips built in the era of Moore’s Law are based on the von Neumann architecture,
including those powering our data centers, our laptops, and our smartphones. Von
Neumann’s digital-computer architecture 1s conceptually the same generalization—from
early digital computers constructed with electromagnetic relays at both Harvard
University and Bletchley Park—that occurs in going from a special-purpose Turing
Machine to a Universal Turing Machine. Furthermore, his self-replicating automata
share a fundamental similarity with both the construction of a Turing Machine and the
mechanism of DNA-based reproducing biological cells. There is to this day scholarly
debate over whether von Neumann saw the cross connections between these three pieces
of work, Turing’s and his two. Turing’s revision of his paper was done while he and von
Neumann were both at Princeton; indeed, after getting his PhD, Turing almost stayed on
as von Neumann’s postdoc.

Without Turing and von Neumann, the cybernetics of Wiener might have
remained a dominant mode of thought and driver of technology for much longer than its
brief moment of supremacy. In this imaginary version of history, we might well live
today in an actual steam-punk world and not just get to observe its fantastical
instantiations at Maker Faires!

My point is that Wiener thought about the world—physical, biological, and (in
Human Use) sociological—in a particular way. He analyzed the world as continuous
variables, as he explains in chapter 1 along with a nod to thermodynamics through an
overlay of Gibbs statistics. He also shoehorns in a weak and unconvincing model of
information as message-passing between and among both physical and biological entities.
To me, and from today’s vantage point seventy years on, his tools seem woefully

13“ Structure for Deoxyribose Nucleic Acid,” Nature 171, 737-738 (1953).

14 hitps://en.wikipedia.org//wiki/First_Draft_of_a_Report_on_ the EDVAC#Controversy. Von Neumann is
listed as the only author, whereas others contributed to the concepts he laid out; thus credit for the
architecture has gone to him alone.

51

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016854
