world! The flyers talk about how cool it would be to vacation anywhere in the world, zip to work or
school, or have fun soaring like an eagle. The invisibility types talk about sneaking into stores and taking
clothes or music they like, eavesdropping on conversations, and playing tricks on family members and
friends. What is even more interesting about these particular answers is how they divide into pure
hedonism — flying — and pure vice — invisibility. With invisibility you can take risks at no cost, except
for the cost that soon becomes apparent to many of these newly donned superheroes: even if they don’t
get caught, they still did something bad, morally bad. This ratchets up their guilt. With this realization,
and a dip into the dark side, comes an about face, with some picking flying instead of invisibility. Rarely
do people stick with invisibility, but see how they might deploy their power for virtuous purposes. Rarely
do these superheroes realize that they can be real heroes, using their invisibility to gain covert information
about terrorist organizations, elicit drug traders, pedophilic priests, or abusive parents — minus the risks.

In real life, there are risks associated with every decision, some clear from the start and others
only clear in hindsight. As with self-control, a growing body of evidence shows that there are individual
differences in risk-taking: some are risk-averse, some risk-prone, and some seemingly risk-blind, unaware
that they are taking risks at all. Some of these differences are evident early in life. Some of these
differences are strongly associated with crime later in life. Some of these differences provide insights into
the invisible risks that individuals and societies confront, risks that can cause great harms.

Research on clinical populations with antisocial disorders, most notably those with a clinical
diagnosis of psychopathy, reveals a major cause of their high risk, costly, and violent behavior: a failure
to experience fear, anxiety, or stress in response to highly evocative images and sounds. In contrast with
healthy populations, psychopaths are emotionally blasé about the things in the world that can cause harm
or result in punishment. The problem lies in the fact that psychopaths, both adults and those identified as
candidates early in childhood, fail to learn about the dangers in life. Their failure to learn is caused by a
reduction in size and activity of two critical and connected brain areas: a region of the frontal cortex and
the amygdala. When this system works efficiently, it allows individuals to learn about the sounds, smells,
and sights that are associated with bad things in the world. When this system works well, individuals
learn to avoid antisocial, immoral, and illegal acts by developing anxiety and fear over the possibility of
punishment and personal injury. When this system works poorly, as is the case in psychopaths,
individuals act as if there are no dangers or risks of punishment — a disposition that enables inappropriate
actions. But psychopathy covers a broad spectrum, with problems that all of us confront at some point in
our lives, some of us even repeatedly. This is important as it forces us to look at non-clinical populations
for the causes of individual differences in risk-taking, especially our reactivity to dangerous events.

Studies carried out over several decades, in a wide variety of cultures, reveal that children begin

life with distinctive temperaments. Some are mellow, blasé about events that are startling to many.

Hauser Chapter 4. Wicked in waiting 133

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012879
