310 17 A Preschool-Based Roadmap to Advanced AGI

However, the briefer treatment given here should suffice to give a sense for how the competencies
manifest themselves practically in the AGI Preschool context.

1. Perception

e Vision: image and scene analysis and understanding
— Example task: When the teacher points to an object in the preschool, the robot
should be able to identify the object and (if it’s a multi-part object) its major
parts. If it can’t perform the identification initially, it can approach the object and
manipulate it before making its identification.
Hearing: identifying the sounds associated with common objects; understanding which
sounds come from which sources in a noisy environment
— Example task: When the teacher covers the robot’s eyes and then makes a noise
with an object, the robot should be able to guess what the object is
Touch: identifying common objects and carrying out common actions using touch alone
— Example task: With its eyes and ears covered, the robot should be able to identify
some object by manipulating it; and carry out some simple behaviors (say, putting
a block on a table) via touch alone
e Crossmodal: Integrating information from various senses
— Example task: Identifying an object in a noisy, dim environment via combining
visual and auditory information
e Proprioception: Sensing and understanding what its body is doing
— Example task: The teacher moves the robot’s body into a certain configuration. The
robot is asked to restore its body to an ordinary standing position, and then repeat
the configuration that the teacher moved it into.

2. Actuation

e Physical skills: manipulating familiar and unfamiliar objects
— Example task: Manipulate blocks based on imitating the teacher: e.g. pile two blocks
atop each other, lay three blocks in a row, etc.
e Tool use, including the flexible use of ordinary objects as tools
— Example task: Use a stick to poke a ball out of a corner, where the robot cannot
directly reach
e Navigation, including in complex and dynamic environments
— Example task: Find its own way to a named object or person through a crowded
room with people walking in it and objects laying on the floor.

3. Memory

e Declarative: noticing, observing and recalling facts about its environment and expe-
rience
— Example task: If certain people habitually carry certain objects, the robot should
remember this (allowing it to know how to find the objects when the relevant people
are present, even much later)
e Behavioral: remembering how to carry out actions
— Example task: If the robot is taught some skill (say, to fetch a ball), it should
remember this much later
e Episodic: remembering significant, potentially useful incidents from life history

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013226
