prosperity deal. He says American conservatives abandoned the middle ground
represented by Republican presidents such as Dwight D. Eisenhower, Richard Nixon and
Bush Sr and became radicals. The derailment, he argues, began under Ronald Reagan
and reached its zenith under George W. Bush.

With the goodwill gone the US is not able to produce a medium-term credible fiscal
trajectory or get agreement on rebuilding its infrastructure. This paralysis is significant
not just for the US but for the world.

Keating links the collapse of this prosperity compact to the financial crisis. Too many
Americans were unable to sustain themselves from wages and salaries.

How did they get by? They used the easy credit of the banking system, thereby feeding
the frenzy that ended in bad loans and meltdown.

Keating's book has an abiding message for Australia: in the transformed world we will
find ourselves increasingly on our own having to master our own destiny.

The job is to rediscover the productivity and savings agenda of the 1990s. Why did
Australia survive the 2008 financial crisis? Because of the flexibility of the economy,
Keating says. Flexibility which came from the reform of Australia's financial, product and
labour markets that began 25 years ago. This has given us one of the most flexible
economies in the world - arguably the most flexible. But further structural changes are
ahead of us.

He lists them. It is a mix of the new and old Keating agenda: a shift in resources to the
extractive industries; a lift in capital inflow driving a high current account deficit putting a
premium on savings; recognition that competitiveness will lie in the creativity of our
people as much as it does in our oil and gas; a renewed emphasis on the value of hi-
tech and education; and above all, a cultural change that integrates Australia more into
East Asia. Cultural transformation is the key for us, Keating says. He rates it as more
important than economic reform.

“There is less interest now in being part of East Asia than there was in the 1990s, he
laments.

Keating wants this idea revived. And he ties it to the republic arguing that to succeed in
Asia we must become a republic, a proposition Howard always dismissed.

On China, Keating is an optimist yet alive to the daunting economic challenge China now
confronts. What is happening in China knows no precedence in world economic history,
he says. Never before have 1.25 billion people dragged themselves from poverty at such
a pace. China is now half the GDP of the US and incomes have risen by a factor of 10.
He argues, however, that the origin of the 2008 financial crisis lies in the global
imbalances - China has built huge foreign exchange reserves by exporting too much and
America, in turn, is saving too little.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029676
