For the first time, scientists have created human embryos that are genetic copies of living people
and used them to make stem cells — a feat that paves the way for treating a range of diseases
with personalized body tissues but also ignites fears of human cloning.

If replicated in other labs, the methods detailed Wednesday in the journal Cell would allow
researchers to fashion human embryonic stem cells that are custom-made for patients with
Alzheimer's disease, diabetes and other health problems.

Theoretically capable of reproducing themselves indefinitely, these stem cells could be used to
grow replacements for a wide variety of diseased cells — those of the blood, skin, heart, brain,
muscles, nerves and more — that would not risk rejection by the patient's immune system.

The report also raises the specter that, with a high-quality donor egg, a bit of skin, some careful
tending in a lab and the womb of a willing surrogate, humans have cracked the biological secret to
reproducing themselves.

That is an objective American scientists have squarely renounced as unethical and scientifically
irresponsible. At the same time, most acknowledge that such reproductive cloning will one day
prove too tempting to resist.

In the hope that other researchers will validate and extend their results, the scientists at Oregon
Health & Science University provided an exceptionally detailed account of their techniques. For
anyone with a well-equipped fertility lab, the comprehensive guide could also be a useful
handbook for cloning a baby.

OHSU cell biologist Shoukhrat Mitalipov led a team of 23 scientists who methodically culled the
lessons learned from stem cell research on amphibians, mice and rhesus monkeys — as well as
from the abundant failures of others in the field. They devised a welter of new techniques to use
the DNA ofa fully formed skin cell in its most primitive embryonic form.

The approach they used — called somatic cell nuclear transfer — effectively strips an egg of its
chromosomes and packs it instead with DNA from a donor.

Nurtured by a stew of nourishing chemicals and zapped with two jolts of electrical current, many
of the eggs began to divide and grew for five to six days. At that point, the embryos had 64 to
200 cells, including a dense inner cell mass from which stem cells were extracted.

In past efforts to coax such an assemblage of components to life, researchers have burned through
dozens of donor eggs without getting any embryos even to the 16-cell stage at which stem cells
become a remote possibility.

This time, the researchers said their methods were so efficient that they could create at least one
embryonic stem cell line from each batch of eggs donated by 10 female volunteers. In one case, a
single donor produced eight eggs of such exceptional quality that researchers were able to derive
four embryonic stem cell lines.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_027025
