grueling work have finally paid off. King George VI and Harvey Weinstein now share the journey of a
single man who triumphs over adversity.

The Governor’s ball, held above the Kodak Theater, recreates the Mocambo-Ciro’s niteries of the 1930’s
and 40’s, using a palette of teal and white. Three bands alternate musical styles as hungry guests wolf
down wolfgang Puck’s delicious food. The winners triumphantly sachet around the room holding their heavy
eight pound gold statues.

An hour later there is a migration to the famous Vanity Fair party hosted by Graydon Carter at the Sunset
Tower Hotel owned by Jeff Klein. One celebrity after another poses in front of the green hedge standing
in the middle of the circular Vanity Fair logo to record their devotion and support to Graydon and the
magazine.

There’s a hierarchy of arrival times. The inner circle of Graydon’s 150 best friends attend a seated
dinner and viewing of the show at 5pm. They include Barry Diller and Diane Von Furstenberg, Francis Ford
Coppola, Jon Hamm and Jennifer westfeldt, Betsey Bloomingdale, Tory Burch and Lyor Cohen, Tom Ford, Sandy
Gallin, Mitch Glazer and Kelly Lynch, Carolina and Reinaldo Herrera, L’Wren Scott and Sir Mick Jagger,
Naomi Watts and Live Schreiber, Wendi Stark, Judd Apatow, Jackie and Joan Collins, George Hammilton,
Donna Karan and Steve Martin.

The best and the brightest talent in town arrive at 9pm. They are Justin Bieber and his date Selena
Gomez, Andrew Garfield, Jude Law, Vera Farmiga, Armie Hammer, Jennifer Lawrence, Kevin Spacey, Charlize
Theron, Anne Hathaway, Hailee Steinfield,Taylor Hackford and Helen Mirren, Scarlett Johansson, Michelle
williams, Isla Fischer and Sasha Baron Cohen, Jane Fonda after her play, “33 Variations”, Melania and
Donald Trump whom I introduce to David 0. Russell as The Trumpster gushes about “The Fighter”. Donald
offers me a ride home on his plane. He is leaving in ten minutes. Too bad James Franco didn’t know
because he is presently sitting on a commercial flight back to school, skipping his own after party.
Social standings of the rest of the guests are determined by half hour increments. Every other person
previously mentioned in the story is here. VF’s Beth Kseniak and Matt Ullian tell me the list is cut down
to 800 this year.

At 11:30pm there is another celebrity migration up the hill to Madonna manager Guy Oseary’s house. One
should note that earlier in the evening Madonna came down the hill to pose in a risqué outfit with
daughter Lourdes in front of the green hedge. Madonna and co-host Demi Moore are able to lure the créme
de la créme with the promise of fabulous music, dancing and no cameras. Those reported on their dance
floor include Ryan Phillippe with Amanda Syedfried, who were making out all night and Phillippe’s ex-wife
Reese Witherspoon and new fiancé Jim Toth. They pregnant Natalie Portman and choreographer Benjamin
Millepied, Mick Jagger, Tom Hanks, Sean Penn, Ralph Feinnes, Mila Kunis, Cameron Diaz, Gwyneth Paltrow
and Renee Zellweger and Bradley Cooper boogie til dawn.

A winner’s work is never done. Colin Firth, Tom Hooper and David Seidler show up at 4:30am at The Four
Seasons Hotel for a live broadcast on The Today Show with Meredith Vieira. Functioning on an adrenalin
rush, they are back at the Kodak Theater with Geoffrey Rush to appear on Oprah’s live broadcast. Leave it
to Oprah to get the king’s last words.

----- Original Message-----

From: Peggy Siegal

Sent: Friday, March 04, 2011 6:12 PM
To: Stephanie

Subject: Oscar diary

Send to jeffrey

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012689
