12

That same night, five Egyptian soldiers were killed and several
injured during an attack on the Egyptian side of the border. Lt. Col.
Amr Imam, a media spokesman for the Egyptian military, said that
the officers were killed by an Israeli Apache helicopter that fired two
rockets. It may have been a mistake, he said. Also on Aug. 18, a
man wearing an explosives belt blew himself up at an Egyptian
checkpoint 11 miles from the Sinai town of Taba, killing an officer
and injuring two others. The body of the dead officer and the
unidentified head of the bomber were brought over to the hospital,
said Abel Wahab, a doctor in the emergency department of the
hospital in el-Arish, North Sinai's capital. The Israeli operation
outraged the Egyptian public and prompted thousands to protest
outside the Israeli Embassy in Cairo. Amid rumors that Egypt might
recall its ambassador from Tel Aviv, the Egyptian government also
brushed off a rare Israeli statement of regret as not in keeping with
the magnitude of the incident and the state of Egyptian anger.

In Sinai, that anger is more palpable -- but it's more often directed at
the Egyptian state. Ibrahim al-Menaei, a leader of the Swarkeh tribe,
considered the most powerful tribe in the north, told me that
Mubarak's formally dissolved state security apparatus was to blame
for the lack of law and order in the region. He accused the security
forces of framing his people for crimes that they did not commit and
labeling them as drug and weapons dealers. I will not let a single
police officer into this region until they give in to our demands,
Menaei explained as he sat in the sanctuary of his safe house a few
kilometers south of the Israeli border, surrounded by his five sons
and armed disciples. He called on the new Egyptian government to
repeal laws that prevent the Bedouins from owning land, abolish all
absentia sentences against Bedouins that were issued during
Mubarak's rule, and prosecute police officers responsible for killing
Bedouins. There are in fact two Sinais: the impoverished north and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024603
