4.2.12
WC: 191694

“The Muslim Student Union orchestrated a concerted effort to disrupt the speech. One
student after another stood and shouted so that the ambassador could not be heard. Each
student was taken away only to be replaced by another doing the same thing.”

Chemerinsky understates what happened, as anyone can see by watching a video of the event,
available online (http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7w96UR79TBw). This was more than a
concerted effort to disrupt the speech. It was a concerted effort to stop it completely -- to
censor Oren's right to speak and his audience's right to hear him. The efforts to disrupt succeeded;
the effort to stop ultimately failed. Moreover, there is undisputed evidence that there was a well-
planned conspiracy to censor Oren's talk.

The students were disciplined by the university for their actions, though the nature and degree of
the discipline has been kept confidential. Campus sources have characterized it as a slap on the
wrist. Since the students had to be arrested to prevent the speech from being drowned out, the
District Attorney, quite understandably, commenced a criminal investigation. After learning of the
careful planning that went into the concerted effort to prevent Oren from speaking, the DA filed
misdemeanor charges against those who were involved.

This decision resulted in an outcry by radicals, many of whom favor censorship of pro-Israel
speakers. In a letter to the DA signed by many well-known anti-Israel zealots, as well as by the
two leaders of the local ACLU, the incident was described as merely a protest:

“the students non-violently and verbally protested a university-invited speaker. The
students left the event peacefully ....”*°

Then, in an effort to blame the victims, the letter pointed the finger at pro-Israel students who
wanted to listen to Oren speak claiming -- quite falsely -- that the Muslim Student Union censors
conducted themselves in less of a disruptive manner than some of the counter-protestors...
Sounds as if the Muslim Student Union deserved a civil liberties award, while the students who
came to listen to the invited speaker—“the counter-protestors”—deserve to be condemned. Ina
more recent letter the ACLU leaders claim that “the students’ intent was not to censor the
speaker...”

The students themselves have been more honest about their intentions than the ACLU leaders. .
For instance, one student leader refused to acknowledge that Mr. Oren had First Amendment
rights of his own by interrupting him and shouting, “Propagating murder is not an expression of
free speech!” (Shades of Bruce Franklin!) Another student was caught on video telling a crowd
assembled outside the event that “we pretty much shut them down”.

The fact that radical anti-Israel zealots would support censorship of a pro-Israel speaker comes as
no surprise. But the fact that the letter of support was signed by two ACLU leaders should shock
all civil libertarians and supporters of the ACLU. I have been a supporter of the ACLU for half a
century and was a national board member. In addition to supporting the right of Nazis to march
through Skokie, I have defended the right of the most virulent anti-Israel speakers to participate

” http://www. baitcal.com/UCIMuslimStudentUnion.html

136

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017223
