Appendix 5

ENDNOTES

Except as otherwise expressly noted, all performance information contained herein, including
rates of return, is as of March 31, 2014 and is unaudited. The performance information is based
on the cumulative invested capital, cumulative cash dividends and realized and unrealized
sales proceeds in portfolio companies. Where designated as “gross”, the performance
information is presented on a gross basis with regard to expenses and does not reflect
deductions for any management fees, the general partner’s carried interest or other expenses.
Where designated as “net”, the performance information is presented on a net basis after giving
effect to management fees, the general partner’s carried interest and other expenses. Please
refer to Section III: “Summary of Historical Investment Performance” and the endnotes below
for a more detailed description of the performance of the NLV-I, NLV-II and the Sprout Funds.
An investment in the Fund does not represent an interest in any indicated investment or any
investment portfolio of any related or other investment fund, including any investment or fund
managed by the Fund Managers. Disclosure of past performance herein is for informational
purposes only and is not indicative of future results.

4 The financial data contained herein relating to the valuations and investment performance of
NLV-I, NLV-IL the Sprout Funds and their investments (including the IC. portfolio thereof)
are estimates prepared by NLV as of March 31, 2014, and have not been audited. The vintage
year of each fund represents the first year that an investment in a portfolio company was
either committed to or funded. While NLV’s valuations of unrealized investments are based
on assumptions that NLV believes are reasonable under the circumstances, the actual realized
returns on unrealized investments will depend on, among other factors, future operating
results, the value of the assets and market conditions at the time of disposition, any related
transaction costs and the timing and manner of the sale, all of which may differ from the
assumptions on which the valuations used in the prior performance data contained herein are
based. Accordingly, the actual realized returns on these unrealized investments may differ
materially and adversely from the (assumed) returns indicated herein. Past performance is
not indicative of future results. There can be no assurance that the Fund will achieve results
comparable to those shown herein, will be able to avoid losses or will be able to achieve its
investment objectives. Except as specifically noted, all performance information contained
herein is on a “gross” basis before giving effect to management fees, the general partner’s
carried interest, taxes and other expenses, the application of which would reduce such prior
performance and indicated rates of return. Except as otherwise indicated, performance
information is for NLV-I, NLV-II and the Fund Managers’ investments in the Sprout Funds.
While the Fund Managers initiated, led, co-led, managed or were otherwise instrumental in
the identification, negotiation, execution and/or management of these investments (as further
described herein), other individuals, including individuals from Sprout Group with respect to
the Sprout Funds, were involved in and assisted with these investments.

==]

Rates of return for public indices are provided for informational purposes only and do not
reflect a basis for comparison for venture capital interests, as the market volatility, liquidity
and other characteristics of venture capital investments are materially different from public
indices. The S&P 500 Stock Index is an unmanaged market capitalization of 500 U.S. equities

97 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024108
