65

considered to be more favorably disposed to the Chinese government perspective

and ensuring that those with challenging views are excluded. One analyst noted that
former Hong Kong chief executive C.H. Tung’s and Fu’s relationships with US think-
tank scholars and presidents provide them with frequent opportunities to speak before
large public audiences at prestigious American venues and to advance an official
Chinese narrative while gaining a certain added legitimacy at home.

Fu is also explicit in her desire to cultivate relations with think-tank experts she
believes may enter government. Following the election of Donald Trump, she “rushed
in to see” one think-tank analyst with ties to the new administration and a flurry of
embassy officials followed. However, when it became evident that said analyst would
not be going into the administration, there was no more interest. In addition, at a
meeting around a project on US-China relations advanced by Fu, she noted that she
hoped some of the people would be entering the government; otherwise it would not
prove to have been worth much to have done the project.

Chinese president Xi Jinping has also encouraged Chinese think tanks to “go
global”— establishing a presence within the United States and other countries as

a way “to advance the Chinese narrative.” In 2015, the Institute for China-America
Studies (ICAS) set up shop in Washington, DC, as a 501(3)(c) nonprofit organization.
ICAS is funded by the Hainan-Nanhai Research Foundation, which receives its
seed funding from the National Institute for South China Sea Studies, a Chinese
government-—supported entity, as well as from the China Institute of the University of
Alberta, Nanjing University, and Wuhan University. The head of ICAS, Hong Nong,
retains ties to these institutions. ICAS maintains a small staff of researchers as well

as a diverse board of international experts from China, the United States, Canada,
Australia, and Indonesia. ICAS projects focus on the central issues of the US-China
relationship, including US-China cooperation, maritime security, North Korea, and
trade relations. Hong herself focuses on the South China Sea and the Arctic policies
of non—Arctic Council member countries, of which China is the largest and most
significant. The institute also holds an annual conference.

While President Xi’s call to establish think tanks was contemporaneous with the
establishment of ICAS, Hong has made it clear that the decision to set up ICAS in DC
came as a result of an effort by her and some of her colleagues both in China and in
Canada to understand better how American think tanks operate. She was asked to
lead ICAS, and she then selected a board of directors, as well as advisory members.

She views the mission of the think tank as being to serve as a bridge in perception
between the United States and China. Hong does not want people to view the institute
as advancing a Chinese government perspective or as wearing a “Chinese hat,” but
she believes that in DC there are too few voices that reflect a Chinese (not necessarily

Section5

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020524
