separate worlds. If you said I was in Colonel Gaddafi’s Little Black Book I couldn’t be less surprised.’

There were also numbers for the influential Rothschild family, including Sir Evelyn de Rothschild and his
daughter Hannah. Last night she said: ‘I have no idea why Mr Epstein would have my numbers as I don’t

know him.’

A print-out of the contacts book came to light after it was subpoenaed for use in a civil case against the

financier by one of the young girls he employed as a masseuse.
The list included 16 numbers for Prince Andrew under his title The Duke of York.

His ex-wife, Sarah Ferguson, was entered under the Duchess of York and there were 18 numbers for her

and her associates as well as an email address.

The ‘book’ also appeared to contain contacts of Epstein’s former girlfriend Ghislaine Maxwell, including

her extended family, friends and brief acquaintances.

One prominent journalist, who asked not to be named, was horrified to discover her parents’ details were
listed. She said: ‘I knew Ghislaine once but that was more than 20 years ago. To be honest
I find it really spooky.’

Artist Kate Stracher was also baffled by her inclusion.

She said: ‘Ghislaine and I were at Oxford together but I haven’t seen her since. I’m not at all glamorous

and not at all well-connected. I definitely shouldn’t be there.’

Others have had only the briefest of meetings. Philippe Amon, a Swiss industrialist, said: ‘I think I came
across Epstein some years ago in New York but I honestly don’t think I would recognise him walking by in

the street.’

A spokesman for Richard Branson said: “Jeffrey Epstein has the island next door to Necker but Richard

has literally only met him once for about five minutes. That’s the extent of it.’
Those who clearly do have a connection are, perhaps unsurprisingly, less keen to talk about it.

Lisa Walker is listed alongside her friend Caroline Stanbury, a former girlfriend of Prince Andrew.

She said: ‘I met Epstein with Caroline.’

Asked if Prince Andrew was also present, Miss Walker said: ‘I wish I could help but I don’t think I should

say any more.’

Police chief's fury over plea bargain
HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022975
