Esa Origins 7 February 24 — 26, 2017
PROJECT An Origins Project Scientific Workshop
Challenges of Artificial Intelligence:

Envisioning and Addressing Adverse Outcomes

ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY

4) Al, CYBERSECURITY, AND Al ATTACK SURFACES

Al Attacks on Computing Systems, Devices, Infrastructure

(Contributions by Kathleen Fisher, John Launchbury, Ashish Kapoor, Sean, Shahar, Jeff Coleman and others)

Al will be used in new ways to enhance cyberwarfare. Targets could be either purely computational,
aimed at the bringing down of computing systems, the stealing of stored information, of gaining access
to monitoring activity and information streams. However, we are more likely to see potentially even
more costly attacks involving a combination of cyber and physical systems, e.g., uranium enrichment
plants, automated flight systems, weapon systems, automated driving systems, healthcare equipment,
oil refineries, or the large swaths of the power grid of the US or other countries.

Cyberwarfare is a domain in which the use of Al is inevitable. Attacks and/or responses are likely to
happen at computing rather than human speeds. As soon as one side has autonomous cyber warriors
systems (ACWs), other actors will have to adapt similar offensive or new defensive technologies. Given
this context, imagine building an ACW designed to seek, disrupt, and destroy within high-value
adversary networks and systems. The ACW has to be able to observe network behavior to build
situational awareness, find places to hide, create exploits to pivot to new places, build a map and use it
to navigate complex networks, find high-value information, and identify targets to disable or from
which to extract information.

Because high-value adversary networks are likely to be relatively isolated, the ACW will have very
limited opportunities for external command and control communication, so it will need to make many
decisions in isolation. It will read information it finds, build a model of adversarial intent, and then
invent ways to disrupt that intent.

Establishing the initial access to the high-value network is likely challenging, so the ACW will spawn and
spread to ensure that it can reconstruct itself if an active part is observed and destroyed. The ACW may
also create disguised caches of specific capabilities so that it can construct new mission-oriented
functionality from pieces. It will morph its active form so that defenses will have a hard time finding it.
It will inject itself into trusted binaries so that its behavior is difficult to distinguish from legitimate
applications.

The mission of the ACW will likely be defined in flexible terms because the human handlers will have
only limited information when it is deployed. The ACW will be designed to seek opportunities to
communicate with its human handlers, but it will also be designed to act autonomously if it observes
triggering behavior in the adversary’s systems. It may try to distinguish training states from active
warfare states on adversary systems. The creators of the ACW will have had to trade off the likely
effectiveness of the ACW versus the cost of premature action. Awareness of the adversary’s systems
will necessarily be limited in accuracy because it only gets a worm’s eye view of the network from the
portions of the system it has been able to compromise. Once the ACW triggers an active mission, it will

10

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014706
