The owner was Jeffrey Epstein, 53, an intensely private New York money manager with
several billionaire clients. Months earlier, the stepmother of a 14-year-old girl told the
Palm Beach police that a wealthy older man, whom the girl later identified as Mr.
Epstein, might have had inappropriate sexual contact with her.

In sworn statements to the police, the 14-year-old and other teenage girls said a friend
had arranged for them to visit Mr. Epstein’s home and give him massages, usually in
their underwear, in exchange for cash.

Most of the girls, according to the police, said Mr. Epstein had masturbated during the
massages, and a few said he had penetrated them with his fingers or penis. They
identified him in photos and accurately described the inside of his home. Some recalled
that his employees had fed them snacks or rented them cars.

Mr. Epstein pleaded not guilty in August to the crime he was ultimately charged with,
soliciting prostitution. But at a time when prosecutors around the nation have become
increasingly severe in dealing with people accused of sex offenses, the case has raised
questions about whether Mr. Epstein’s prominence won him preferential treatment.

By the account of the police, they found probable cause to charge Mr. Epstein with much
more serious offenses: one count of lewd and lascivious molestation and four counts of
unlawful sexual activity with a minor.

But instead of proceeding with such charges on his own, the Palm Beach County state
attorney took the rare step of presenting a broad range of possible charges to a grand jury,
which indicted Mr. Epstein in July on the lesser count. In Florida, prosecutors usually
refer only capital cases to grand juries.

Even before the indictment, the Palm Beach police chief, Michael Reiter, had accused
prosecutors of giving Mr. Epstein special treatment and asked the state attorney, Barry E.
Krischer, to remove himself from the case.

In an editorial, The Palm Beach Post attacked Mr. Krischer, a Democrat whose post is
elective, saying the public had been left “to wonder whether the system tilted in favor of
a wealthy, well-connected alleged perpetrator and against very young girls who are
alleged victims of sex crimes.”

The case has taken a toll on the reputation of Mr. Epstein, who owns a palatial home in
Manhattan, has pledged $30 million to Harvard and once flew former President Bill
Clinton on his 727. Politicians including Eliot Spitzer, a Democratic candidate for
governor in New York, and Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, also a Democrat, have
returned campaign contributions from him.

But Mr. Epstein fought back, assembling a team of star lawyers, including Gerald B.
Lefcourt and Alan M. Dershowitz, a friend of his, to look into the backgrounds of his
young accusers.

Mr. Lefcourt says that the police acted “outrageously” and that his client has been
wrongfully dragged through the mud.

“He disputes that he ever had sex with any under-age person or anything like that,” said
Mr. Lefcourt, whose clients have included Russell Crowe, Martha Stewart and Abbie
Hoffman.

Neither the police nor the state attorney’s office would discuss the case in detail. But the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021772
