the financial benefits, ). In Bedford , I repeated my concern. THe current circumstance is distressing tome, I
have done my utmost to keep you safe. and will continue to do so. reckless choices in accounting or
otherwise does not bode well. at each turn I have put your interests first , including in some instances
attempting to fight your choices.

your current circumstance needs nuanced attention. as you know, there are a few areas with very serious
consequences. whether it be , having Ada , form grats without review, brad doing phaidon without review.
payments make without review.merely in order to be weaned , is one more high risk choice. review of outside
accounting firms , CANNOT be done by brad. to have your accounting dept sit in on Alans trust accounting
lecture . in order to learn the filed is reminiscent of elieen reading the tax regs. (_ she also was going to take a
course)

I am here in New York today. should you like to resume

Date: Mon, May 2, 2016 at 12:51 AM
Subject: Fwd: Valuation Discount
To: Melanie Spinella

Leon please read the attached proposed response to the IRS__, see if you can understand it !!!._ Ive asked for a
re-do. and given prelimiary directions to Alan to have it edited over the weekend

If you are quarterbacking ,ok with me. just please let everyone know. you must deal with the outrageous
incompetence in your family office... Alans words  but I was told that.., but I was told by the office (sic)
that ... , BUT i was told by joslin,. , but I was told by.  why is leon blaming me for... . I ve have always
given you my best advice, If you reflect on your financial life , you have been kept safe , had remarkable
results and no disasters. I have repeatedly urged you to get rid of the people in your office. , you
have repeatedly chosen to ignore my advice , youtold me last week that the emotional reason was in order
to be weaned off my group and not have to pay my high fees. ( though ignoring the benefit of between 1.5
and 2b to the better. ). and no explosions. You have email after email ,where i remind you that I am not
your bookkeeper or accountant (in brads corporate speak his finance dept ??!!) that it should be redone .I
have reviewed a multitude of the silly reports given to you and have pointed out the continued numerous
inaccuracies. your question  so what if the numbers are off , so what if the categories are off. whats the big
deal??. I suggest you de risk you finances and make the tough decisions necessary - pay the right amounts (
high) to get the work done properly or , you are , Im afraid, certain to get an unhappy answer.. tom will be
back from vacation. this week.

---------- Forwarded message ----------

From: Halperin, Alan S

Date: Thu, Apr 28, 2016 at 5:16 PM

Subject: Valuation Discount

To: jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com>

I am attaching a draft response from Empire Valuation as to why it arrived at a valuation discount on the low
end. Let’s discuss the response and next steps. Thanks. Alan

Date: Tue, May 10, 2016 at 12:38 AM

Subject:

did you get the agent?

Date: Wed, May 11, 2016 at 1:50 PM

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023317
