114 6 A Brief Overview of CogPrime

combination of explicit and implicit knowledge in the system’s knowledge graph, the synergetic
interaction of different cognitive processes would not work so smoothly, and the emergence of
effective high-level hierarchical, heterarchical and self structures would be less likely.

6.6 Analysis and Synthesis Processes in CogPrime

We now return to CogPrime’s fundamental cognitive dynamics, using examples from the “virtual
dog” application to motivate the discussion.

The cognitive schematic Context \ Procedure — Goal leads to a conceptualization of the
internal action of an intelligent system as involving two key categories of learning:

e Analysis: Estimating the probability p of a posited C A P > G relationship

e Synthesis: Filling in one or two of the variables in the cognitive schematic, given as-
sumptions regarding the remaining variables, and directed by the goal of maximizing the
probability of the cognitive schematic

More specifically, where synthesis is concerned,

e The MOSES probabilistic evolutionary program learning algorithm is applied to find P,
given fixed C' and G. Internal simulation is also used, for the purpose of creating a simulation
embodying C and seeing which P lead to the simulated achievement of G.

— Example: A virtual dog learns a procedure P to please its owner (the goal G) in the
contert C where there is a ball or stick present and the owner is saying “fetch”.

e PLN inference, acting on declarative knowledge, is used for choosing C, given fixed P and
G (also incorporating sensory and episodic knowledge as appropriate). Simulation may also
be used for this purpose.

— Example: A virtual dog wants to achieve the goal G of getting food, and it knows that
the procedure P of begging has been successful at this before, so it seeks a context C
where begging can be expected to get it food. Probably this will be a context involving a
friendly person.

e PLN-based goal refinement is used to create new subgoals G to sit on the right hand side
of instances of the cognitive schematic.

— Example: Given that a virtual dog has a goal of finding food, it may learn a subgoal of
following other dogs, due to observing that other dogs are often heading toward their

food.

e Concept formation heuristics are used for choosing G and for fueling goal refinement, but
especially for choosing C (via providing new candidates for C). They are also used for
choosing P, via a process called “predicate schematization” that turns logical predicates
(declarative knowledge) into procedures.

— Example: At first a virtual dog may have a hard time predicting which other dogs are
going to be mean to it. But it may eventually observe common features among a number
of mean dogs, and thus form its own concept of “pit bull,” without anyone ever teaching
it this concept explicitly.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013030
