3

DAY ONE

ared Kushner at thirty-six prided himself on his ability to get along with older men. By
J the time of Donald Trump’s inauguration he had become the designated intermediary
between his father-in-law and the establishment, such as it was—more moderate
Republicans, corporate interests, the New York rich. Having a line to Kushner seemed to
offer an alarmed elite a handle on a volatile situation.

Several of his father-in-law’s circle of confidants also confided in Kushner—often
confiding their worries about their friend, the presidentelect.

“IT give him good advice about what he needs to do and for three hours the next day he
does it, and then goes hopelessly off script,” complained one of them to Trump’s son-in-
law. Kushner, whose pose was to take things in and not give much back, said he
understood the frustration.

These powerful figures tried to convey a sense of real-world politics, which they all
claimed to comprehend at some significantly higher threshold than the soon-to-be
president. They were all concerned that Trump did not understand what he was up against.
That there was simply not enough method to his madness.

Each of these interlocutors provided Kushner with something of a tutorial on the
limitations of presidential power—that Washington was as much designed to frustrate and
undermine presidential power as to accommodate it.

“Don’t let him piss off the press, don’t let him piss off the Republican Party, don’t
threaten congressmen because they will fuck you if you do, and most of all don’t let him
piss off the intel community,” said one national Republican figure to Kushner. “If you fuck
with the intel community they will figure out a way to get back at you and you'll have two
or three years of a Russian investigation, and every day something else will leak out.”

A vivid picture was painted for the preternaturally composed Kushner of spies and
their power, of how secrets were passed out of the intelligence community to former
members of the community or to other allies in Congress or even to persons in the
executive branch and then to the press.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019914
