35

The secretary runs a brisk, no-nonsense meeting. “We present and she
interrogates, in the best sense of the word,” says Patrick Kennedy, the
undersecretary for management. Received wisdom gets eviscerated.
“Jeff, you’ve got to do better than that,” she told Jeffrey Feltman, the
assistant secretary for Near Eastern affairs, one day when he
presented a shopworn idea. With USAID undergoing an overhaul,
she listens to every reform report, down to the details of how chlorine
tablets for clean drinking water can be transported by truck in
Honduras. “She’s looking at the guts of how we work,” says Dr. Raj
Shah, who runs USAID.

According to old State hands, Hillary represents some of the better
qualities of her predecessors. She has Baker’s obsession with
preparation, reaches out like Colin Powell (who advised her to resist
the efforts of bureaucrats to strip her of her BlackBerry), and offers
continuity with Condi Rice’s policy on aids and Africa. But she
might most resemble Ronald Reagan’s second secretary of state,
George Shultz, a canny pragmatist who made significant progress in
several areas without being associated with a single momentous
event. Shultz was known for valuing the “career people” (foreign-
service officers) and casting a wide net for advice. Hillary does that,
too, though she’s still surrounded by a Praetorian Guard of loyalists
from her Senate office who are too political for the taste of some
diplomats in the building. (They preferred the military veterans
around Powell or academics around Rice.) Her great weakness over
the years was too often choosing subordinates based more on loyalty
than competence. She has been better about this since moving to
State, but still slow to extend her trust.

When she travels, Hillary manages to be simultaneously remote from
the media (joint press conferences with foreign ministers are limited
to two questions for each) and accessible to the public. Unless a crisis
obliterates her schedule, she routinely subjects herself to what Reines

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024992
