but if you know Indian vegetarian cooking in depth and can prepare delicious, healthy, fresh, authentic
Indian vegetarian food then we’d like to hear from you. This could be an ideal opportunity if you are
Indian, Pakistani, Punjabi, etc., and are looking for a great way to apply your experience and love of
Indian vegetarian food, cooking and culture. Knowledge of Ayurved and how this relates to food and
diet is a plus though not essential.

Please reply with details of your experience and some dishes you could prepare. If we like what you
have to offer, we’ll arrange for you to cook a sample meal or two which we will pay you for and then
we'll see what works out for us all.

This is a part-time position. You will be self-employed and responsible for your own taxes, etc. We'll
pay you an hourly rate we will agree with you plus grocery bills for the food you prepare. You can
prepare food in your own place and we can arrange to collect it from you, possibly for us to freeze for
later eating. We will work with you to come up with menus and schedules that work out for you and
us.

Thank you for your interest.

Basic Choices: New Delhi or New York?

Laer are tens of thousands of VAs—how on earth do you find the right one’? The resources at the

end of this chapter will show you where to look, but it is overwhelming and confusing unless you have a
few criteria determined in advance.

It often helps to begin with the question “Where on Earth?”

Remote or Local?

“Made in the USA” doesn’t have the ring it used to. The pros of jumping time zones and visiting third-
world currency are twofold: People work while you sleep, and the per-hour expense is less. Time savings
and cost savings. Ritika explains the former with an example.

One can give the remote personal assistant in India their assignment when they are leaving work at the
end of the day in New York City, and they will have the presentation ready the next morning. Because
of the time difference with India, assistants can work on it while they are asleep and have it back in their
morning. When they wake up, they will find the completed summary in their inbox. These assistants can
also help them keep pace with what they want to read, for example.

Indian and Chinese VAs, as well as most from other developing countries, will run $4—-15 per hour,
the lower end being limited to simple tasks and the higher end including the equivalent of Harvard or
Stanford M.B.A.s and Ph.D.s. Need a business plan to raise funding? Brickwork can provide it for
between $2,500—-5,000 instead of $15,000—20,000. Foreign assistance isn’t just for the small time. I know
from firsthand discussions that executives from big five accounting and management consulting firms
routinely charge clients six figures for research reports that are then farmed to India for low four figures.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013880
