mutually agree on an outcome which ends the conflict and reconciles
the Palestinian goal of an independent and viable state, based on the
1967 lines, with agreed swaps, and the Israeli goal of a Jewish state
with secure and recognized borders that reflect subsequent
developments and meet Israeli security requirements.” That’s not
Obama, Bush or Rice, but a statement jointly issued by Secretary of
State Hillary Clinton and Netanyahu on Nov. 11, 2010.

Today, Netanyahu says that any discussion of the 1967 borders is
treason and that new borders must reflect “dramatic changes” since
then. So in three years, an Israeli prime minister’s position has gone
from “minor corrections” to “dramatic changes.” Netanyahu’s
quarrel, it appears, is with himself. Yet we are to think it is Obama
who has shifted policy?

Why did Netanyahu turn what was at best a minor difference into a
major confrontation? Does it help Israel’s security or otherwise
strengthen it to stoke tensions with its strongest ally and largest
benefactor? Does such behavior further the resolution of Israel’s
problems? No, but it helps Netanyahu stir support at home and
maintain his fragile coalition. And while Bibi might sound like
Churchill, he acts like a local ward boss, far more interested in
holding onto his post than using it to secure Israel’s future.

The newsworthy, and real, shift in U.S. policy was Obama publicly
condemning the Palestinian strategy to seek recognition as a state
from the U.N. General Assembly in September. He also questioned
the accord between Fatah and Hamas. Obama endorsed the idea of a
demilitarized Palestinian state, a demand Israel has made in recent
years. Instead of thanking Obama for this, Netanyahu created a public
confrontation to garner applause at home.

Netanyahu’s references to the “indefensible” borders of 1967 reveal
him to be mired in a world that has gone away. The chief threat to
Israel today is not from a Palestinian army. Israel has the region’s

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023519
