needs. Surely that understanding of sexual roles vs. other needs could be adapted to the
service of gender identity. Yet so many BDSMers still fall prey to the same old gendered
preconceptions, and talk nonsense about how all women are naturally submissive or
whatever.

Don't get me wrong: of course anyone would deserve plenty of blame if they refused to
let go of their entitlement, or chose not to examine the ways their behavior might
support an oppressive system. But I think men exist who are willing to do those things,
yet feel blocked from relevant discussions because participating creates anxiety about
their sexual or gender identity. It strikes me as unreasonable to attack them for that.
Choosing to present one's sexuality and/or gender identity in a normative way is not in
itself a sin. It's not fair to expect people to fit themselves into a box that doesn't suit them
-- not even for The All-Important Cause of better understanding sex and gender.

Where can we find ideas for how men can be both supportive and non-oppressive, and
overtly masculine? How can we make it to normative men's advantage to analyze
masculine norms? What does it look like to be masculine, but liberated from the
strictures of stereotypical masculinity? How can we contribute to a Men's Movement that
encompasses all three bases -- being perceived as masculine, acknowledging male
privilege, and deconstructing the problems of masculinity?

te Kk ok

Questions I Want To Ask Entitled Cis Het Men, Part 3: Space for Men

I'm about to assert something that makes me nervous, because I worry that people are
going to stick me in the asshole MRA box. Don't get me wrong: I certainly don't think
that women have it better, overall, than men do. But I do wonder whether it might be
good for feminists to acknowledge that -- although we don't experience nearly as
much privilege as men -- there are a lot of advantages women experience that men don't.

Because women aren't seen as threatening, we have an easier time doing confrontational
things like approaching strangers on the street. Because women aren't seen as fighters, we
stand a lower chance of being mugged than men do. Because women are seen as
emotional, we're given a huge amount of social space to consider and discuss our
feelings. I can work with and be affectionate with children far more easily than a man
could. I can be explicit and overt about my sexuality without being viewed as a creep.

And there are at least a few recurring complaints about how trying to be masculine can
suck. First and foremost: that men don't feel they've been taught to process their
emotions, or don't feel allowed to display them. Another: that they're perceived as less
manly if they don't achieve success through a career, especially if they aren't the main
breadwinner for their family. A third: that men are expected to be sexually insatiable, or
always to be sexually available.

Of course, it's worth noting that the advantages women experience are almost always the
flip side of unfortunate stereotypes. For instance, one might say that women get more
social space for emotion because we're stereotyped as irrational and hysterical. But that
doesn't change the fact that most of us easily grasp that space, while most men don't. And
if we can reject the Oppression Olympics for just one minute and stop thinking about

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018578
