KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP
See Tab 1, May 19, 2008 Letter from J. Sloman, p. 4, 4 1.

The Truth:

e The defense engaged in days of negotiation and made 14 separate substantive objections
to the unprecedented notification letter that Mr. Sloman threatened to send to an
undisclosed list of “victims.” The eventual transmission of this highly misleading letter
was only halted by an appeal to AAG Fisher. Among those substantive objections
(which related to far more than the “time and place” of the state’s sentencing hearing)
were:

o Sending the letter would contravene the government’s commitment to take no
position regarding potential claims of government witnesses. See Tab 39,
November 28, 2008 Email from J. Lefkowitz to J. Sloman.

© The letter cited to an inapplicable statute (the Justice for All Act of 2004) as its
justification for being sent. Jd. AUSA Acosta later conceded that the citation to
this statute as a justification was wholly incorrect.

o The letter wrongly advised all recipients that Mr. Epstein would be required to
register as “a sexual predator for the remainder of this life.”

o The letter amounted to an invitation to civil litigation against Mr. Epstein,
advising recipients that they had the right to seek civil damages from Mr. Epstein,
and in an underlined instruction, stated that if they chose an attorney other than
the one chosen by the government they would be required to pay his fees, but if
they chose the government’s choice, Mr. Epstein would be required to pay the
fees.

3. MISCHARACTERIZATION OF OUR ARGUMENTS.
Mr. Sloman’s Letter:

* Mr. Sloman’s letter misleadingly characterizes our substantive defense of the
government’s investigation as, “the investigation merely produced evidence of relatively
innocuous sexual conduct with some minors who, unbeknownst to Mr. Epstein,
misrepresented their ages.”

See Tab 1, May 19, 2008 Letter from J. Sloman, p. 2.
The Truth:

e We never made such a claim. To the contrary, we argued that sworn statements we have
taken of the alleged victims demonstrate that law enforcement has presented versions of
their testimony that are necessarily sensationalized and fictionalized. We presented

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012174
