and patrons. Through these collaborations, the Program
seeks to generate, exchange, and develop ideas and policies
in order to encourage vibrancy and dynamism in all artistic
realms, and to enrich civic culture in ways only the arts can.

Among the events curated by the Aspen
Institute Arts Program under Woetzel’s direction:

In November 2011, Woetzel curated the inaugural US-
China Forum on the Arts and Culture in Beijing, in partnership
with Asia Society and the Chinese People’s Association for
Friendship with Foreign Countries. The four day forum was
the first in a series of cultural exchanges seeking to strengthen
mutual understanding between Americans and Chinese
through panel discussions, lectures, film screenings, museum
tours, dinners and performance. American and Chinese
artists and cultural representatives engaged in the forum
included Joel Coen, Meryl Streep, Yo-Yo Ma, Alice Waters,
Liu Ye, Ge You and others. Woetzel also directed a Public
Forum in partnership with the Public Theater titled “Does
Culture Make Us Who We are,” hosted by Anne Hathaway with
guests including Bill Irwin, David Brooks and Oskar Eustis.

In March 2012, Woetzel produced a panel with
Howard Gardner, the Hobbs Professor of Cognition and
Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education,
and Dr. Ellen Winner, Professor of Psychology at Boston
College, and Senior Research Associate at Project Zero,
examining the current state of the arts in education.
Woetzel also hosted renowned artists Eric Fischl and
Chuck Close in a conversation about artists and their
audience at the Mary Boone Gallery in New York.

In June 2012, the Arts Program for the first time
curated multiple sessions at the Institute’s premiere
public program, the Aspen Ideas Festival. For nineteen
sessions, Woetzel brought renowned artists, policymakers,
arts administrators as well as leading Chinese cultural
representatives for discussions, film screenings and
cultural exchanges focusing on how the arts impact society.
Sessions included “Culture and Conflict” with Palestinian-
born ballroom star and educator Pierre Dulaine and
Dutch composer Merlijn Twaalfhoven; a conversation
between renowned producer Julie Taymor and former
Disney CEO and current Aspen Institute Arts Program
chair Michael Eisner; “Radical Creative Spaces” with
architect Elizabeth Diller; “Arts and the City: Making
Cities Sing” with Rocco Landesman, Dennis Scholl, Darren
Walker and Richard Florida; among many others.

Since 2006, Woetzel has been the Artistic Director
of the summer Vail International Dance Festival, where
he presents dance performances and commissions. He
has instituted a number of initiatives as director, including
bringing the educational arts program “Celebrate The
Beat”—the Colorado associate of Jacques d’Amboise’s
National Dance Institute—to the Vail Valley, to reach
local underserved children in the public schools.

Under Woetzel’s direction, the festival has
received wide acclaim for its innovation and growth as a
nationally recognized showcase for dance, featuring such
performances as the debut of Morphoses/The Wheeldon
Company, and the launch of New York City Ballet MOVES.
The annual International Evenings of Dance galas have
become renowned for Woetzel’s curation of first-time
partnerships across companies and countries, as well as the
presentation of young, emerging stars making their debuts
in new repertory. In August 2012, The New York Times’
Alastair Macaulay wrote that the 2012 Vail International
Dance Festival presentations “were distinguished above
all by catholic taste and brilliant programming. They merit
superlatives” and that the International Evenings I gala
“was simply the best gala I have attended in decades.”
Writing the same week, Wendy Perron of Dance Magazine
compared Woetzel to the legendary impresario Serge
Diaghilev, and praised Woetzel for engaging and educating
audiences through spoken introductions to each work, and
for his commitment to collaboration with live musicians.

Woetzel has also instituted a series of “UpClose”
performances: lecture-demonstration events which combine
rehearsal, performance and commentary by Woetzel and
special guests. Recent UpClose performances have included:
“UpClose: Stravinsky by Balanchine,” an examination of
the legendary collaboration between George Balanchine
and Igor Stravinsky, co-hosted by Woetzel and New York
City Ballet Master-in-Chief Peter Martins (2012); “UpClose:
Premieres,” which provided a first look at a series of works
created in Vail by choreographers including Christopher
Wheeldon and Emery LeCrone during the weeks of the 2011
Vail International Dance Festival; among many others.

In 2009 and 2010, Woetzel produced and directed
the World Science Festival Gala Performances at Lincoln
Center’s Alice Tully Hall. For the 2010 event he created
an arts salute to science honoring the theoretical physicist
Stephen Hawking, featuring performances by Yo-Yo
Ma, John Lithgow, and Kelli O’Hara among others.

In the fall of 2009, Woetzel helped create and began
directing the Jerome Robbins Foundation’s New Essential
Works (NEW) Program, which supports choreographers
and dance companies during the current financial crisis
by giving grants to enable the production of new works.

In 2009, Woetzel launched as curator and director
the new Studio 5 performance series at New York’s City
Center, which features in-depth examinations of today’s
most compelling dance artists and companies highlighted by
in-studio performances and demonstrations. In 2009-2012,
guests included David Hallberg, Christopher Wheeldon,
Victoria Clark, Rob Berman, Angel Corella, Wendy Whelan,
Edward Villella, among others; topics of discussion ranged
from musical theatre to collaboration; and featured
companies included American Ballet Theatre, the Paul
Taylor Dance Company and Dance Theater of Harlem.

In June of 2010 Woetzel piloted “Arts Strike,”
anew effort to have celebrated artists engage educators
and students, schools and communities, highlighting and
sharing the unique power of the arts to empower, enrich
and educate. The first events have taken place in Vail,
Chicago, and Los Angeles, and have all featured Woetzel
with Yo-Yo Ma in schools, engaging with students and
their teachers to promote learning through the arts.

Woetzel works with Yo-Yo Ma on his Silk Road
Connect program in the New York City Public Schools. In
June 2010, Woetzel directed the culminating year-end event
which took place at New York’s Museum of Natural History,
and featured the participation of the Silk Road Ensemble
and 450 sixth-grade students. In June 2011, the culminating
year-end event opened the Central Park SummerStage series.
Titled “Night at the Caravanserai: Tales of Wonder,” the
performance again featured hundreds of sixth-grade students
from New York-area public schools, Ma with his Silk Road
Ensemble, vocalist Bobby McFerrin, the soprano Emalie Savoy,
actor Bill Irwin, and author Jhumpa Lahiri, among others.

In April 2011, Woetzel organized an “arts strike” at
Inner-City Arts in downtown Los Angeles with Yo-Yo Ma, The
Silk Road Ensemble, and Memphis Jooker Charles “Lil Buck”
Riley. The event included a demonstration and workshop for
more than one hundred elementary school students from
the Los Angeles Unified School District. Highlighting the
event was a first-time duet directed by Woetzel between Ma
and Lil Buck, who performed a Memphis Jookin’ version of
The Dying Swan with Ma accompanying on the cello; the
performance was immortalized in a video shot by Spike
Jonze which reached over one million views within weeks.

In the fall of 2010, Woetzel was a visiting Lecturer
at Harvard Law School, where he co-taught a course
on Performing Arts and the Law with Jeannie Suk.

Woetzel was the artistic director of the New York State
Summer School for the Arts School of Ballet from 1994-2007.

Woetzel was a Principal Dancer at New York City
Ballet from 1989 until his retirement from the stage in 2008.
At New York City Ballet, Woetzel had works created for him

by Jerome Robbins, Eliot Feld, Twyla Tharp, Susan Stroman,
and Christopher Wheeldon among others, and danced more
than 50 featured roles in the Company’s repertory, including:
George Balanchine’s: Agon, Coppelia, Prodigal Son, Slaughter
on Tenth Avenue, Stars and Stripes, Swan Lake; and Jerome
Robbins’: Afternoon of a Faun, Fancy Free, Dances at a
Gathering, A Suite of Dances, and West Side Story Suite.

Woetzel originated featured roles in: Eliot Feld’s
The Unanswered Question and Organon, Peter Martins’ Jeu
de Cartes and The Sleeping Beauty, Jerome Robbins’ Ives,

Songs and Quiet City, Susan Stroman’s “The Blue Necklace”
from Double Feature, Twyla Tharp’s The Beethoven Seventh,
Christopher Wheeldon’s An American in Paris, Carousel

(A Dance), Evenfall, Morphoses, and Variations Sérieuses.
Woetzel also originated roles in ballets by Kevin O’Day,
Richard Tanner, and Lynne Taylor-Corbett, among others.

Woetzel appeared in Dance in America’s presentation
of “Dinner with Balanchine,” dancing Union Jack and Stars
and Stripes. In October 1998, Mr. Woetzel appeared as one of
the stars of the Cole Porter musical Jubilee in a special benefit
performance at Carnegie Hall, during which he sang as well
as danced. In May 1999, he starred as Prince Siegfried in Peter
Martins’ Swan Lake on the PBS national telecast “Live from
Lincoln Center.” Woetzel also appeared in the 2002 nationally
televised Live from Lincoln Center broadcast “New York City
Ballet’s Diamond Project: Ten Years of New Choreography”
on PBS and in the May 2004 Live from Lincoln Center
broadcast of “Lincoln Center Celebrates Balanchine 100.”
Woetzel starred as the Cavalier in the film version of George
Balanchine’s The Nutcracker™, released in the winter of 1993.

During his career, Woetzel frequently performed
internationally as a guest star and was a visiting artist
with numerous companies including the Kirov Ballet
and American Ballet Theatre. In his guest appearances,
Woetzel danced principal roles in classics such as Don
Quixote, Giselle, and La Bayadere, among others.

Woetzel has choreographed a number of ballets
for New York City Ballet, among other companies. For New
York City Ballet, he choreographed Ebony Concerto to
Stravinsky, and Glazounov Pas de Deux to the composer’s
Les Ruses d’Amour. Woetzel also choreographed the
“Polovtsian Dances” for New York City Opera’s production
of Prince Igor, and in 1998, he choreographed and
starred in a new version of An American in Paris ballet
for Marvin Hamlisch’s Gershwin Centennial Gala.

Woetzel is the recipient of a Choo San Goh award
for new choreography. He serves on the Artists Committee
of the Kennedy Center Honors and as a judge for the Astaire
Awards. He has also served as a juror for the Princess Grace
Awards. Woetzel is a frequent speaker on the arts and arts
policy. Woetzel was the 2008 Harman-Eisner Artist in
Residence of the Aspen Institute, and in 2011, he became a
member of the Knight Foundation’s National Arts Advisory
Committee. Woetzel also serves on the boards of directors
of New York City Center, The Clive Barnes Foundation and
The Sphinx Organization, and served on the recent Harvard
Task Force on the Arts. In November 2009, President
Obama appointed Woeizel to the President’s Committee
on the Arts and Humanities. In July 2012, Woetzel was
honored with the inaugural Gene Kelly Legacy Award—an
award jointly created by the Dizzy Feet Foundation and
the Estate of Gene Kelly in honor of the 100th anniversary
of Kelly’s birth—for his contributions to the arts as a ballet
star and director of dance and music performances.

Woetzel holds a Master in Public Administration
Degree from Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government.

Woetzel has been married to
Heather Watts since 1999.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017564
