concluded that criminals were born not made. Their defining features were throwbacks to our
evolutionary ancestors, dehumanized by biological defects. Modern man was civilized and elegant.
Criminal man was barbaric, a savage with slanted forehead, jutting jaw, and excessively long arms.
Criminal man was more ape-like than human-like. Because the cause of these differences was biological,
Lombroso argued that a life of crime was inevitable. Change through rehabilitation was hopeless. To
protect society, these natural born criminals had to be taken out of society, either locked up or executed.
These ideas formed the basis of several eugenics’ movements, with the aim of weeding out the
undesirable, less than human elements of society, be they less intelligent, from a non-Caucasian racial
group, or from a culture with different religious beliefs.

Lombroso’s theory of criminality was soon rejected as scholars from a variety of different
disciplines unearthed its racial stereotypes and shoddy methods, including a failure to include the many
people with slanted foreheads, jutting jaws, and long arms who never committed crimes, and those with
statuesque anatomy who did. This initiated a general skepticism and even fear of biological explanations,
causing a swing in the opposite direction. Criminals were not born but made by corrupt societies.
Humans are not born with biologically encoded scripts for behaving with malice or virtue. Rather, we are
born with blank slates, waiting for society to inscribe its distinctive signature. So began a pendulous
swing from nature to nurture. Though the oscillation continues to this day, there is increasing
appreciation, perhaps especially in the arena of criminology, that both nature and nurture make important
contributions. This change comes, in part, from a far greater understanding of genetics, combined with
long term studies of how humans and other animals develop within environments that are either nurturing
or damaging.

Consider the MAOA gene that I mentioned in the last section. This gene produces an enzyme that
goes by the same shorthand of MAOA, or MonoAmine Oxidase A. MAOA is evolutionarily ancient,
shared with other animals, and has two different forms — /ow and high — that influence the level of
serotonin as well as the brain areas involved in social evaluation and emotional regulation. Early
evidence for the critical role of this gene in social behavior emerged from a study that knocked it out of
operation. Ifyou knock out the MAOA gene in mice, they quickly become hyper-hyper-aggressive.
These genetically transformed mice have no capacity to regulate their social behavior. Consequently, all
interactions are treated as confrontational and handled by aggressive attacks. These results are consistent
with a large body of work in animals showing that heightened aggression and low levels of serotonin go
hand in hand. These results are also consistent with work on humans. In, 1993, the Dutch biologist Hans
Brunner analyzed the genetics of a large, extended family. Some individuals within this family were born
with a defect that silenced the operation of the MAOA gene; they were like the mice who had this gene

silenced. Relative to others in the family, these individuals had a pronounced history of violence,

Hauser Chapter 4. Wicked in waiting 124

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012870
