COWEN
COLLABORATIVE INSIGHTS February 25, 2019

Additional Applications / Implications (Nadeau & Osborne)

2

Epilepsy & Psychiatric Conditions (Nadeau)

For companies willing to invest in research and manufacturing, the development of FDA-
approved cannabinoid-based drugs provides another path to market. GW’s Epidiolex
(highly potent, pure CBD) was approved by the FDA in 2018, and several other
companies are dedicating resources to conducting the pre-clinical and clinical research
necessary to follow in GW’s footsteps. These companies are developing cannabinoids
that differ by route of administration (oral capsule, oromucosal spray, sublingual pill,
aerosol, topical cream, etc), formulation (level of purification, bioavailability,
concentration), and dosing strategy (single agent or in combination). Below we
summarize the clinical trial data from GW’s Epidiolex in epilepsy and psychiatric
indications, and Zynerba’s transdermal CBD gel ZYNOO2 in Fragile X syndrome.

GW conducted a broad Phase III program for Epidiolex in epilepsy, consisting of two
Phase Ill trials in Dravet, two Phase II/ trials in Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS), a Phase
Ill trial in tuberous sclerosis complex, and a Phase II/III trial in infantile spasms. The first
three Phase Ill trials (one in Dravet and two in LGS) supported an NDA submission,
leading to FDA approval in June 2018.

The Phase III efficacy portion of the first Dravet trial randomized 120 patients to either
Epidiolex (20 mg/kg/day, n=61), or placebo (n=59). Epidiolex was added to background
anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs). On average, patients were taking ~3 AEDS after previously
having failed 4 or more. The average age of trial participants was 10 years and 30% of
patients were less than 6 years of age. Patients entered the study with a median
baseline convulsive seizure frequency of 13/month. The primary endpoint was the %
change in monthly frequency of convulsive seizures during the 14-week treatment
period compared with the 4-week baseline between Epidiolex and placebo.

On the trial's primary endpoint, Epidiolex achieved a highly statistically significant
median reduction in monthly convulsive seizures of 39% compared with a reduction in
placebo patients of 13% (p=0.01). The difference between Epidiolex and placebo
emerged during the first month of treatment and was maintained through the entirety
of the treatment period. Nine pre-specified sensitivity analyses of the primary endpoint
confirmed the robustness of the primary endpoint result. These analyses dealt with
statistical elements such as the data’s normality, assumptions about discontinuations,
and the time period over which the data were analyzed. A number of secondary
endpoints were also assessed (responder analysis, seizure types, global impression of
change).

Full data were presented at AES 2016. This presentation disclosed that during the
maintenance period the reduction in seizure frequency was 41% for Epidiolex vs. 16%
for placebo, p=0.0052. The median reduction in total seizures was 29% for Epidiolex vs.
9% for placebo during the treatment period, and 37% for Epidiolex vs. 10% for placebo
during the maintenance period. There was a clear separation between Epidiolex and
placebo in a continuous response analysis of convulsive seizures across all reductions in
convulsive seizure frequency. In particular 43% of Epidiolex patients vs. 27% of patients
taking placebo had at least a 50% reduction in convulsive seizures. 62% of Epidiolex
patients vs. 35% of placebo patients were rated slightly improved, much improved, or
very much improved on the Caregiver Global Impression of Change (CGIC). It was noted
that three Epidiolex and no placebo patients achieved convulsive and total seizure
freedom during the treatment period. While the poster did not discuss the impact of
concomitant clobazam on efficacy, it did note that the effect of concomitant AEDs on
efficacy will be explored in future pooled analyses.

COWEN.COM 87

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024903
