admission, however grudging, of mutual advantage, and in short order they were back on
cordial terms again.

On their arrival at the White House, the ninth day of his presidency, Trump proudly
showed them into the Oval Office and was momentarily deflated when Brzezinski said she
had been there many times before with her father, beginning at age nine. Trump showed
them some of the memorabilia and, eagerly, his new portrait of Andrew Jackson—the
president whom Steve Bannon had made the totem figure of the new administration.

“So how do you think the first week has gone?” Trump asked the couple, in a buoyant
mood, seeking flattery.

Scarborough, puzzled by Trump’s jauntiness in the face of the protests spreading across
the nation, demurred and then said, “Well, I love what you did with U.S. Steel and that
you had the union guys come into the Oval Office.” Trump had pledged to use U.S.-made
steel in U.S. pipelines and, in a Trump touch, met at the White House with union
representatives from building and sheet metal unions and then invited them back to the
Oval Office—something Trump insisted Obama never did.

But Trump pressed his question, leaving Scarborough with the feeling that nobody had
actually told Trump that he had had a very bad week. Bannon and Priebus, wandering in
and out of the office, might actually have convinced him that the week had been a success,
Scarborough thought.

Scarborough then ventured his opinion that the immigration order might have been
handled better and that, all in all, it seemed like a rough period.

Trump, surprised, plunged into a long monologue about how well things had gone,
telling Bannon and Priebus, with a gale of laughter, “Joe doesn’t think we had a good
week.” And turning to Scarborough: “I could have invited Hannity!”

At lunch—fish, which Brzezinski doesn’t eat—Jared and Ivanka joined the president
and Scarborough and Brzezinski. Jared had become quite a Scarborough confidant and
would continue to supply Scarborough with an inside view of the White House—that is,
leaking to him. Scarborough subsequently became a defender of Kushner’s White House
position and view. But, for now, both son-in-law and daughter were subdued and
deferential as Scarborough and Brzezinski chatted with the president, and the president—
taking more of the air time as usual—held forth.

Trump continued to cast for positive impressions of his first week and Scarborough
again reverted to his praise of Trump’s handling of the steel union leadership. At which
point, Jared interjected that reaching out to unions, a traditional Democratic constituency,
was Bannon’s doing, that this was “the Bannon way.”

“Bannon?” said the president, jumping on his son-in-law. “That wasn’t Bannon’s idea.
That was my idea. It’s the Trump way, not the Bannon way.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019935
