141

The State Council Information Office/External Propaganda Leading Group

The State Council Information Office/External Propaganda Leading Group is the nerve
center and leading organ in the sprawling system of China’s international propaganda
(NA+) work. It maps out the entirety of China’s overseas “publicity” work, assigns
different bureaucratic entities with specific tasks, fixes budgets for entities in this
system, and convenes yearly meetings to implement the annual external propaganda
plan (ASRit kl). The SCIO is commonly known in Chinese both as the Guo Xin
Ban (#i#7s) and Wai Xuan Ban (External Propaganda Office, 447»). The reason for
the two names is because it straddles two bureaucratic systems—the party and the
state. It is formally under the State Council, but it is also overseen by the Chinese
Communist Party’s External Propaganda Leading Group (or EPLG). This bureaucratic
duality is what the Chinese describe as “one organ, two signboards” (—MILFaAIR IFT),
a reference to the white placards that hang outside the gates of all Chinese institutions
(in this case giving the appearance of two different institutions, but in reality with
only one inside). As such, the SCIO is the administrative office for the EPLG, playing
a coordinating role in the media area similar to that performed by the Central Foreign
Affairs Office (CFAO, #2447) for the Foreign Affairs Commission (PRABBAS).

NOTES
1 This body was upgraded from Leading Small Group status in March 2018.

2 These plans are normally classified and only circulated within the Chinese bureaucracies, but
occasionally they find their way into the public domain. See, for example, State Council Information Office.
“Summary of China’s External Propaganda Work in 2013” [PE WSs LF 20134F4R i]. Chinese Academy
of Social Sciences Journalism Institute (ed.). China Journalism Yearbook [FER HAS 2014]. Beijing:
Zhongguo Shehui Kexue Chubanshe. 2014. 63-66.

3 See Bowe, Alexander. “China’s Overseas United Front Work: Background and Implications for the United
States.” US-China Economic & Security Review Commission. August 24, 2018; Kynge, James, et al. “Inside
China’s Secret ‘Magic Weapon’ for Worldwide Influence.” Financial Times. 26 Oct. 2017, http://www.ft.com
/content/fb2b3934-b004-11e7-beba-5521c713abf4.; Brady, Anne-Marie. “Magic Weapons: China’s Political
Influence Activities under Xi Jinping.” Wilson Center Kissinger Institute on China and the United States.
September 18, 2017. https://www.wilsoncenter.org/article/magic-weapons-chinas-political-influence
-activities-under-xi-jinping.

Appendix 1

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020600
