Canada have abated, those with China have certainly deteriorated and will continue to do so for the
foreseeable future. But, in aggregate, there has been more improvement than deterioration, in our
view.

In this Sunday Night Insight, we will provide a brief update on the steady factors and unsteady
undertow. We then conclude with our view that the steady factors will likely continue to win this tug-of-
war between the two.

Steady Factors

While the headlines warn of equity market carnage, the facts do not support such alarming headlines.
The S&P 500 is still up 5.1% on a year-to-date total return basis and financial conditions remain at
easier levels today than they did when the Federal Reserve began this tightening cycle in 2015,
despite the recent decline in equities and 0.76 percentage point increase in 10-year Treasury yields
year-to-date. Most importantly, as highlighted by Federal Reserve Chairman, Jerome Powell, we are
in “extraordinary times” of steady growth and low inflation.

Economic Growth

Economic growth remains firm in the US. Both the Institute for Supply Management leading indexes
for manufacturing and non-manufacturing remain at very strong levels. Current activity indicators of
real GDP growth average about 3.5% for the third quarter and closer to 4% for the fourth quarter.
Forecasts for third quarter real GDP average 3.8% and fourth quarter forecasts are about 2.8%.
While growth is slowing from the 4.2% estimate of the second quarter, it is still forecast to be above
trend and we believe a modest slowdown is certainly preferable to continued growth at a pace that
was likely unsustainable and possibly even inflationary.

In aggregate, the economic data since the intraday peak of US equities on September 21st does not
point to any worrisome slowdown in GDP growth or the pace of employment. |n fact, while the recent
134K increase in non-farm payrolls was less than expectations, revisions to earlier months offset the
modest headline miss and the unemployment rate still fell to 3.7%. Furthermore, this 134k increase
is above the estimated sustainable level of employment growth based on population growth and
changes in labor force participation, which our colleagues in Goldman Investment Research estimate
is around 96k. Importantly, a modest slowdown in the 3-month average of non-farm payrolls, which
currently stands at a very robust 190k jobs, is more likely to keep inflation in check.

Robust Earnings and Buybacks

Continued above-trend economic growth is supporting solid corporate fundamentals. While many are
quick to dismiss this strength to US tax reform, it is only half the story. Earnings before interest and
taxes (EBIT) expanded by a very healthy 12% in the first half of this year and are expected to grow by
double-digits again in the third quarter. This robust organic profit growth is also fueling sizable
corporate buybacks—a key source of equity market support. Our colleagues on the corporate
buyback desk expect the highest dollar amount for buybacks on record in 2018, with $1tn in
authorizations and $850bn in executed buybacks.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026910
