Limited Reinvestment: Without the consent of the Advisory Board, the General Partner
shall not permit the aggregate purchase price of long-term
investments to exceed 110% of aggregate Commitments.

Distributions: All distributions prior to the dissolution of the Fund will be
made at such times and in such amounts as the General Partner
shall determine. All such distributions will be apportioned
among the Partners as follows:

(i) First, 100% to all Partners in proportion to their capital
contributions until each Partner has received distributions in an
amount equal to such Partner’s capital contributions; and

(ii) Thereafter, 20% to the General Partner and 80% to all
Partners in proportion to their respective capital contributions.

With respect to any fiscal year, the Fund may make cash
distributions to the Partners in amounts intended to defray the
Partners’ tax liability resulting from their interests in the Fund
during such fiscal year.

Liquidating distributions will be made in accordance with
positive capital account balances.

Allocations: The Fund will maintain capital accounts on behalf of each
Partner in accordance with U.S. Federal income tax
requirements. In general, any cumulative net loss will be
allocated to the capital accounts of the Partners in proportion
their contributions, and any cumulative net gain will be
allocated 20% to the capital account of the General Partner and
80% to the capital accounts of all Partners in proportion to their
contributions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, items of expense
will be allocated to the Partners in proportion to their
contributions and will be offset by subsequent allocations of net
profit (to the extent thereof), provided that the General Partner
will not be allocated any items of expense attributable to the
Management Fee.

General Partner Clawback: __ If, after the Fund has made its final liquidating distribution, the
General Partner has received aggregate distributions with
respect to its “carried interest” in excess of the cumulative net
profit allocated to the General Partner with respect to its
“carried interest,” the General Partner will return to the Fund
the amount of that excess; provided, however, that in no event
shall the General Partner be required to return to the Fund an
amount in excess of the aggregate distributions made to the
General Partner that are attributable to its “carried interest” less
tax distributions. All carry recipients shall be severally, but not
jointly, liable for their respective proportional shares of the

49 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024060
