?

seem half-hearted when it emerged that demonstrations could only be
held with prior permission from the interior ministry.

The difficult and perilous task Bashar now faces is nothing less than
the profound restructuring -- under great popular pressure -- of a
fossilised system of governance inherited from his father, but which
is no longer appropriate to the modern age, and no longer tolerated
by the bulk of the population. Like other Arabs, Syrians want real
political freedoms, the release of political prisoners, an independent
judiciary, the punishment of corrupt bigwigs, a free press, a new law
on political parties allowing for genuine pluralism (and the
cancellation of article 8 of the constitution which enshrines the
Ba’ath Party as “the leader of state and society’’), and an end, once
and for all, to arbitrary arrest, police brutality and torture.

Can Bashar meet these demands? Does he have the will and ability to
do so? Can he hope to prevail over the entrenched interests of his
extended family, of his intelligence and army chiefs, of powerful
figures in his Alawite community, of rich Sunni merchants of
Damascus traditionally allied to the Assad family, and of the small
but powerful “new bourgeoisie,” made rich by the transition from a
state-controlled to a market-oriented economy, over which he has
himself presided in the past decade? All these disparate forces want
no change in a system which has brought them privilege and wealth.
Above all, can Bashar change the brutal methods of his police and
security forces? Could anyone in just a few weeks hope to change
habits of repression ingrained over half a century, and indeed far
longer? (For autocracy is not an Assad invention.)

The Bashar years

Until the outbreak of the crisis, Bashar al-Assad had little or nothing
of the menacing pose of a traditional Arab dictator. His manner was
modest and, at 45, he looked astonishingly young. His tall willowy
frame has none of the robustness of a fighter, while his gaze,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024964
