over and over again. So you have to have one point to make and you have to pepper it in
whenever you can.”

The Priebus appointment as chief of staff, announced in mid-November, also put
Bannon on a coequal level. Trump was falling back on his own natural inclinations to let
nobody have real power. Priebus, even with the top job, would be a weaker sort of figure,
in the traditional mold of most Trump lieutenants over the years. The choice also worked
well for the other would-be chiefs. Tom Barrack could easily circumvent Priebus and
continue to speak directly to Trump. Jared Kushner’s position as son-in-law and soon top
aide would not be impeded. And Steve Bannon, reporting directly to Trump, remained the
undisputed voice of Trumpism in the White House.

There would be, in other words, one chief of staff in name—the unimportant one—and
various others, more important, in practice, ensuring both chaos and Trump’s own
undisputed independence.

Jim Baker, chief of staff for both Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush and almost
everybody’s model for managing the West Wing, advised Priebus not to take the job.

OOK Ok

The transmogrification of Trump from joke candidate, to whisperer for a disaffected
demographic, to risible nominee, to rent-in-the-fabric-of-time president-elect, did not
inspire in him any larger sense of sober reflection. After the shock of it, he immediately
seemed to rewrite himself as the inevitable president.

One instance of his revisionism, and of the new stature he now seemed to assume as
president, involved the lowest point of the campaign—the Billy Bush tape.

His explanation, in an off-the-record conversation with a friendly cable anchor, was
that it “really wasn’t me.”

The anchor acknowledged how unfair it was to be characterized by a single event.

“No,” said Trump, “it wasn’t me. I’ve been told by people who understand this stuff
about how easy it is to alter these things and put in voices and completely different
people.”

He was the winner and now expected to be the object of awe, fascination, and favor.
He expected this to be binary: a hostile media would turn into a fannish one.

And yet here he was, the winner who was treated with horror and depredations by a
media that in the past, as a matter of course and protocol, could be depended on to shower
lavish deference on an incoming president no matter who he was. (Trump’s shortfall of
three million votes continued to rankle and was a subject best avoided.) It was nearly
incomprehensible to him that the same people—that is, the media—who had violently
criticized him for saying he might dispute the election result were now calling him

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019909
