And I’m going to deliver on this.’ ”

And then the final, agreed-upon-beforehand question: “Can this Trump movement be
combined with what’s happening at CPAC and other conservative movements for fifty
years? Can this be brought together ... and is this going to save the country?”

“Well, we have to stick together as a team,” said Priebus. “It’s gonna take all of us
working together to make it happen.”

As Bannon started into his answer, he spoke slowly, looking out at his captive and
riveted audience: “I’ve said that there is a new political order being formed out of this and
it’s still being formed. If you look at the wide degree of opinions in this room, whether
you are a populist, whether you’re a limited-government conservative, whether you’re a
libertarian, whether you’re an economic nationalist, we have wide and sometimes
divergent opinions, but I think the center core of what we believe, that we’re a nation with
an economy, not an economy just in some global market place with open borders, but that
we are a nation with a culture, and a reason for being. I think that’s what unites us. And
that’s what’s going to unite this movement going forward.”

Bannon lowered the microphone to, after what might be interpreted as a beat of
uncertainty, suddenly thunderous applause.

Watching from the White House, Kushner—who had come to believe that there was
something insidious when Bannon used the words “borders,” “global,” “culture,” and
“unite,” and who was more and more convinced that they were personally directed against
him—was now in a rage.

OOK Ok

Kellyanne Conway had increasingly been worrying about the seventy-year-old president’s
sleeplessness and his worn look. It was the president’s indefatigability—a constant
restlessness—that she believed carried the team. On the campaign trail, he would always
add stops and speeches. He doubled his own campaign time. Hillary worked at half time;
he worked at double time. He sucked in the energy from the crowds. Now that he was
living alone in the White House, though, he had seemed to lose a step.

But today he was back. He had been under the sunlamp and lightened his hair, and
when the climate-change-denying president woke up on another springlike morning, 77
degrees in the middle of winter, on the second day of CPAC, he seemed practically a
different person, or anyway a noticeably younger one. At the appointed hour, to the
locked-down ballroom at the Gaylord Resort, filled to capacity with all stripes of the
conservative faithful—Rebekah Mercer and her daughter up front—and hundreds of
media people in an SRO gallery, the president emerged onto the stage, not in an energetic
television-style rush, but with a slow swagger to the low strains of “I’m Proud to Be an
American.” He came to the stage as a political strongman, a man occupying his moment,
clapping—here he reverted to entertainer pose—as he slowly approached the podium,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019985
