TERSON

yur virginity”: “I already lost it.” r

aught with drugs and arrested.
‘om Victoria’s Secret. From the
e girls look like compromised

ut Epstein is true, wouldn't that

e weak, while the lawyers on
strong.

nted Claus von Bulow, the Brit-
f the murder of his wife, Sunny.
mpson’s team when the former
> murders of his ex-wife, Nicole
ond Ronald Lyle Goldman. And
had been, neither one had had
villing and able to deploy in his

timate friends with his lawyer.

:d, none of that mattered. Even if
d molested were eighteen years
m-— it didn’t matter under Flor-
that in Epstein’s case exceptions 4
even more concerned with each a
| the state attorney’s office.
D asked the state attorney's office ©
ffrey Epstein. ig
r took the extraordinary step of
all but demanding that he recuse”

TOWN OF PALM BEACH
POLICE DEPARTMENT

ANATIONAL AND STATE ACCREDITED LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY

May 1, 2006
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL

Mr, Barry E Krischer, State A

Office of the State Attornay nomney
Fifleanth Judiclal Circuit

401 North Dixie Highway

West Palm Beach, FL 33401

Dear Mr. Krischer,

Please find enclosed the
Probable cause affi
resultung from th 2 affidavits and case filin ges
icolen and Haley a ae Department's investigation ct later: een oe =
Assistant State Altorngy Lanna vatican of these documents are both in wane
A Hohiewek’s =
Beach Police Department's presentation nol oe them and fo serve as the Palm

! know that you agree that i
y at it's Our Shared re

plese “ if esponsibility to seek |
cfc lm cherie duties with fairness wd barelorce sy ie omen
ne pula cr . continue to fine your office's treatment of these c sae
aeeiiskctont ote on = ! en forcad to communicate in this manner coon on

i ind those of tha le, ive to i ne
have been unanswered and messages remain mecha eileen eee a

fer giving this much | Qe yi
AR h thought and considerati ™ je
: F ni ns , ration, P must y 9@ yOu 10 examine the unusual
hake t = your oun handling of this matter 1aS taken and cor sider 7 good ane
sufficient reason existe to reguiré your disquali tion from the prosecution
fs fication from thi ros it of these

2ases
Sincerely,
Micheal S. Reiter
Chief of Police
MSRent

MS Sou asd .
MIN Conty Raat + Pair Reach Fiomus 1248 ddas + (65)) WYE-SR) « Fan (450; 8968 0 aew palrsesrhasiice con
F South ¢ $4t; palm deachpg ice ce

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010512
