revenue lost. I was immediately 10 times happier.

I then identified the common characteristics of my top-five customers and secured three or so similarly
profiled buyers in the following week. Remember, more customers is not automatically more income.
More customers is not the goal and often translates into 90% more housekeeping and a paltry 1-3%
increase in income. Make no mistake, maximum income from minimal necessary effort (including
minimum number of customers) is the primary goal. I duplicated my strengths, in this case my top
producers, and focused on increasing the size and frequency of their orders.

The end result? I went from chasing and appeasing 120 customers to simply receiving large orders
from 8, with absolutely no pleading phone calls or e-mail haranguing. My monthly income increased
from $30K to $60K in four weeks and my weekly hours immediately dropped from over 80 to
approximately 15. Most important, I was happy with myself and felt both optimistic and liberated for the
first time in over two years.

In the ensuing weeks, I applied the 80/20 Principle to dozens of areas, including the following:

1. Advertising

I identified the advertising that was generating 80% or more of revenue, identified the commonalities
among them, and multiplied them, eliminating all the rest at the same time. My advertising costs dropped
over 70% and my direct sales income nearly doubled from a monthly $15K to $25K in 8 weeks. It would
have doubled immediately had I been using radio, newspapers, or television instead of magazines with
long lead times.

2. Online Affiliates and Partners

I fired more than 250 low-yield online affiliates or put them in holding patterns to focus instead on the
two affiliates who were generating 90% of the income. My management time decreased from 5—10 hours
per week to 1 hour per month. Online partner income increased more than 50% in that same month.

Slow down and remember this: Most things make no difference. Being busy is a form of laziness—lazy
thinking and indiscriminate action.

Being overwhelmed is often as unproductive as doing nothing, and is far more unpleasant. Being
selective—doing less—is the path of the productive. Focus on the important few and ignore the rest.

Of course, before you can separate the wheat from the chaff and eliminate activities in a new
environment (whether a new job or an entrepreneurial venture), you will need to try a lot to identify what
pulls the most weight. Throw it all up on the wall and see what sticks. That’s part of the process, but it
should not take more than a month or two.

It’s easy to get caught in a flood of minutiae, and the key to not feeling rushed is remembering that
lack of time is actually lack of priorities. Take time to stop and smell the roses, or—in this case—to
count the pea pods.

The 9-5 Illusion and Parkinson’s Law

I saw a bank that said “24-Hour Banking,” but I don’t have that much time.
— STEVEN WRIGHT, comedian

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013843
