On Israel, Bannon had partnered with Sheldon Adelson, titan of Las Vegas, big-check
right-wing contributor, and, in the president’s mind, quite the toughest tough-guy Jew (that
is, the richest). Adelson regularly disparaged Kushner’s motives and abilities. The
president, to Bannon’s great satisfaction, kept telling his son-in-law, as he strategized on
Israel, to check with Sheldon and, hence, Bannon.

Bannon’s effort to grab the stronger-on-Israel label was deeply confounding to
Kushner, who had been raised as an Orthodox Jew. His closest lieutenants in the White
House, Avi Berkowitz and Josh Raffel, were Orthodox Jews. On Friday afternoons, all
Kushner business in the White House stopped before sunset for the Sabbath observance.

For Kushner, Bannon’s right-wing defense of Israel, embraced by Trump, somehow
became a jujitsu piece of anti-Semitism aimed directly at him. Bannon seemed determined
to make Kushner appear weak and inadequate—a cuck, in alt-right speak.

So Kushner had struck back, bringing into the White House his own tough-guy Jews—
Goldman Jews.

OOK Ok

Kushner had pushed for the then president of Goldman Sachs, Gary Cohn, to run the
National Economic Council and to be the president’s chief economic adviser. Bannon’s
choice had been CNBC’s conservative anchor and commentator Larry Kudlow. For
Trump, the Goldman cachet outdrew even a television personality.

It was a Richie Rich moment. Kushner had been a summer intern at Goldman when
Cohn was head of commodities trading. Cohn then became president of Goldman in 2006.
Once Cohn joined Trump’s team, Kushner often found occasion to mention that the
president of Goldman Sachs was working for him. Bannon, depending on whom he
wanted to slight, either referred to Kushner as Cohn’s intern or pointed out that Cohn was
now working for his intern. The president, for his part, was continually pulling Cohn into
meetings, especially with foreign leaders, just to introduce him as the former president of
Goldman Sachs.

Bannon had announced himself as Trump’s brain, a boast that vastly irritated the
president. But in Cohn, Kushner saw a better brain for the White House: not only was it
much more politic for Cohn to be Kushner’s brain than Trump’s, but installing Cohn was
the perfect countermove to Bannon’s chaos management philosophy. Cohn was the only
person in the West Wing who had ever managed a large organization (Goldman has thirty-
five thousand employees). And, not to put too fine a point on it—though Kushner was
happy to do so—Bannon had rolled out of Goldman having barely reached midlevel
management status, whereas Cohn, his contemporary, had continued on to the firm’s
highest level, making hundreds of millions of dollars in the process. Cohn—a Democrat
globalist-cosmopolitan Manhattanite who voted for Hillary Clinton and who still spoke
frequently to former Goldman chief and former Democratic New Jersey senator and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019991
