15

MEDIA

n April 19, Bill O’Reilly, the Fox anchor and the biggest star in cable news, was

pushed out by the Murdoch family over charges of sexual harassment. This was a
continuation of the purge at the network that had begun nine months before with the firing
of its chief, Roger Ailes. Fox achieved its ultimate political influence with the election of
Donald Trump, yet now the future of the network seemed held in a peculiar Murdoch
family limbo between conservative father and liberal sons.

A few hours after the O’Reilly announcement, Ailes, from his new oceanfront home in
Palm Beach—precluded by his separation agreement with Fox from any efforts to
compete with it for eighteen months—sent an emissary into the West Wing with a
question for Steve Bannon: O’Reilly and Hannity are in, what about you? Ailes, in secret,
had been plotting his comeback with a new conservative network. Currently in internal
exile inside the White House, Bannon—‘the next Ailes” —was all ears.

This was not just the plotting of ambitious men, seeking both opportunity and revenge;
the idea for a new network was also driven by an urgent sense that the Trump
phenomenon was about, as much as anything else, right-wing media. For twenty years,
Fox had honed its populist message: liberals were stealing and ruining the country. Then,
just at the moment that many liberals—including Rupert Murdoch’s sons, who were
increasingly in control of their father’s company—had begun to believe that the Fox
audience was beginning to age out, with its anti-gay-marriage, anti-abortion, anti-
immigrant social message, which seemed too hoary for younger Republicans, along came
Breitbart News. Breitbart not only spoke to a much younger right-wing audience—here
Bannon felt he was as much in tune with this audience as Ailes was with his—but it had
turned this audience into a huge army of digital activists (or social media trolls).

As right-wing media had fiercely coalesced around Trump—treadily excusing all the
ways he might contradict the traditional conservative ethos—mainstream media had
become as fiercely resistant. The country was divided as much by media as by politics.
Media was the avatar of politics. A sidelined Ailes was eager to get back in the game. This
was his natural playing field: (1) Trump’s election proved the power of a significantly

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020030
