16 MICHAEL WOLFF

As a family insider, Kushner, in a game of court politics so vicious
that, in another time, it might have yielded murder plots, had appeared to
triumph over his early White House rivals. But Trump invariably soured
on the people who worked for him, just as they soured on him, not least
because he nearly always came to believe that his staff was profiting at his
expense. He was convinced that everyone was greedy, and that sooner or
later they would try to take what was more rightfully his. Increasingly, it
seemed that Kushner, too, might be just another staff member trying to
take advantage of Donald Trump.

Trump had recently learned that a prominent New York investment
fund, Apollo Global Management, led by the financier Leon Black, had
provided the Kushner Companies—the family real estate group that had
been managed by Kushner himself while his father, Charlie, was in federal
prison—with $184 million in financing.

This was troubling on many levels, and it left a vulnerable Kushner
open to more questions about the conflicts between his business and his
position in the White House. During the transition, Kushner had offered
Apollo's cofounder Marc Rowan, the job of director of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget. Rowan initially accepted the job, declining it only
after Apollo chairman Leon Black objected to what would have to be dis-
closed about Rowan’s and the firms investments.

But the president-elect's concerns were elsewhere: he was more keenly
and furiously focused on the fact that, in the constant search for financings
that occur in mid-tier real estate companies like Trump's, Apollo had never
extended itself for the Trump Organization. Now, it seemed baldly appar-
ent, Apollo was backing the Kushners solely because of the family’s con-
nection to the administration. The constant accounting in Trump's head
of who was profiting from whom, and his sense of what he was therefore
owed for creating the circumstances by which everyone could profit, was
one of the things that reliably kept him up at night.

“you think I don’t know what's going on?” Trump sneered at his
daughter, one of the few people he usually went out of his way to try to
mollify. “You think I don’t know what's going on?”

The Kushners had gained. He had not.

The president’s daughter pleaded her husband’s case. She spoke of the

SIEGE

incredible sacrifice the couple had made by coming to Washington. Ai
for what? “Our lives have been destroyed,’ she said melodramatically
and yet with some considerable truth. The former New York socialit
had been reduced to potential criminal defendants and media laughir
stocks.

After a year of friends and advisers whispering that his daughter a
son-in-law were at the root of the disarray in the White House, Trur
once again was thinking they should never have come. Revising histo
he told various of his late-night callers that he had always thought tk
never should have come. Over his daughter’s bitter protests, he declin
to intercede in his son-in-law’s security clearance issues. The FBI h
continued to hold up Kushner’s clearance—which the president, at
discretion, could approve, his daughter reminded him. But Trump «
nothing, letting his son-in-law dangle in the wind.

Kushner, with superhuman patience and resolve, waited for his opp
tunity. The trick among Trump whisperers was how to focus Trur
attention, since Trump could never be counted on to participate in a
thing like a normal conversation with reasonable back-and-forth. Spc
and women were reliable subjects; both would immediately engage h:
Disloyalty also got Trump’s attention. So did conspiracies. And mone:
always money. |

+ %

Kushner’s own lawyer was Abbe Lowell, a well-known showboat of
D.C. criminal bar who prided himself on, and managed his clients’ exp
tations and attention with, an up-to-the-minute menu of rumors :
insights about what gambit or strategy prosecutors were about to dish
The true edge provided by a high-profile litigator was perhaps not cot
room skill but backroom intelligence.

Lowell, adding to the reports Dowd had received, told Kushner 1
prosecutors were about to substantially deepen the presidents—and
Trump family’s—jeopardy. Dowd had continued to try to mollify the pr
dent, but Kushner, with intel supplied by Lowell, went to his father-in-law v
reports about this new front in the legal war against him. Sure enough.
March 15 the news broke that the special counsel had issued a subpo

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021132
