16.4 Task-Based Assessment in AGI Preschool 297

Intelligence Type Test
Spatial-Visual

design a costume

interpret a painting

create a room layout

create a corporate logo

design a building

pack a suitcase or the trunk of a car

Interpersonal

interpret moods from facial expressions
demonstrate feelings through body language
affect the feelings of others in a planned way
coach or counsel another

Table 16.5: Prototypical preschool intelligence assessment tasks, Part 2

(acquisition), and asked to explain the new one (variation). And, part of the training behavior
might be carried out unobserved by the AGI, thus requiring the AGI to infer the omitted parts
of the task it needs to describe.

Another popular form of early childhood testing is puzzle block games. These kinds of games
can be used to assess a variety of important cognitive skills, and to do so in a fun way that
not only examines but also encourages creativity and flexible thinking. Types of games include
pattern matching games in which students replicate patterns described visually or verbally,
pattern creation games in which students create new patterns guided by visually or verbally
described principles, creative interpretation of patterns in which students find meaning in the
forms, and free-form creation. Such games may be individual or cooperative.

Cross training and assessment of a variety of skills occurs with pattern block games: for
example, interpretation of visual or linguistic instructions, logical procedure and pattern fol-
lowing, categorizing, sorting, general problem solving, creative interpretation, experimentation,
and kinematic acuity. By making the games cooperative, various interpersonal skills involving
communication and cooperation are also added to the mix.

The puzzle block context bring up some general observations about the role of kinematic
and visuospatial intelligence in the AGI Preschool. Outside of robotics and computer vision, AI
research has often downplayed these sorts of intelligence (though, admittedly, this is changing in
recent years, e.g. with increasing research focus on diagrammatic reasoning). But these abilities
are not only necessary to navigate real (or virtual) spatial environments. They are also important
components of a coherent, conceptually well-formed understanding of the world in which the
student is embodied. Integrative training and assessment of both rigorous cognitive abilities
generally most associated with both AI and “proper schooling” (such as linguistic and logical
skills) along with kinematic and aesthetic/sensory abilities is essential to the development of
an intelligence that can successfully both operate in and sensibly communicate about the real
world in a roughly humanlike manner. Whether or not an AGI is targeted to interpret physical-
world spatial data and perform tasks via robotics, in order to communicate ideas about a vast
array of topics of interest to any intelligence in this world, an AGI must develop aspects of
intelligence other than logical and linguistic cognition.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013213
