The Espionage Source | 287

held incommunicado in Vienna for two weeks during his debrief-
ing. It would be inconceivable for an intelligence service to bring
a potential espionage source such as Snowden to Russia and allow
him to catch the next plane to Latin America. The false report pro-
vided to the press that Snowden was flying there was likely nothing
more than a smoke screen to confuse foreign observers while he was
receiving his initial debriefing and evaluation.

When it comes to the esoteric enterprise of reconstructing the
work of U.S. communications intelligence, military as well as civilian
experts in cryptology, computer sciences, and communications are
necessary. Unlike in the case of Pelton, Snowden, according to Ana-
toly Kucherena, had secret material in his possession. Even if Rus-
sian intelligence had already acquired copies of the electronic files
prior to Snowden’s arrival in Moscow, Snowden’s interpretation of
them would be part of the debriefing because intelligence data needs
to be put in context.

“This debriefing could not be done overnight,” according to a for-
mer high-ranking officer in the GRU, the Russian military intel-

© ligence service. “There is no way that Snowden would not be fully ©
debriefed,” he said. He also said GRU specialists in signals intelli-
gence would be called in.

Putin’s approval of the Snowden operation was not without con-
sequences. Not only did Obama make good on his threat to can-
cel the pre-Olympics summit with Putin, but also, as it turned out,
the Snowden exfiltration proved a turning point in the “reset” of
U.S.-Russian relations. Having to accept the onus of declining rela-
tions with the Obama administration, Putin, it seems safe to assume,
attempted to get the bonus of the NSA’s communications intelli-
gence from Snowden. The GRU, the SVR, and other Russian intel-
ligence services would not stop questioning Snowden, even if it took
years, until they had squeezed out of him whatever state secrets he
had. Because Snowden was rewarded with sanctuary, a residence, and
bodyguards, there is no reason to doubt that he refused to accommo-
date his hosts. While he might continue to see himself as a whistle-
blower on a supranational scale, as far as Russian intelligence was
concerned, he was an espionage source.

For an intelligence service, the game is not over when it obtains

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.indd 287 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019775
