Subjective Certitude

Tautologies or truisms are logical certitudes. My three fundamental theorems are
cases in point. The total return truism is a classical example. Since growth is
creation less net outflow, creation is growth plus net outflow. This gives unqualified
certitude to the doctrine that output, or creation of value, is growth of value plus

cash flow (net outflow of value).

The other two fundamental theorems are certitudes in a subjective sense. What they
predict infallibly is intentions. The present value rule must give capital value as we
see it individually. Only under the convergence axioms does it predict observed
market equilibria. The same is true of the maximand rule. This rested on the same

axioms and the one that a population acts to satisfy tastes (in the sense of aims).

There are schools of thought, including Popperians and deconstructionists, which
disapprove of logical certitude on grounds not clear to me. They are wrong. A rose is
a rose. Nor are all examples as inane as that one from Gertrude Stein. All of math is
derived as logical certitude. Its proof comes from analysis, not experiment. Proof of
Fermat’s last theorem eluded some of the finest minds in the world for three
centuries until Andrew Wiles published the solution in 1995. Philosophy is precisely
a search for hidden truisms or tautologies. Economics is philosophy when it does
the same. The pay rule shows that their inferences can be startling. Age-wage
profiles are technically illustration, not proof, of the proposition that human
depreciation is expected to be recovered in pay. That follows from definitions and

needs no evidence in proof.

The pay rule is not wholly logical certitude because it also proposes that
maintenance consumption is not recovered in pay. Rather I argue that from the
biological imperative: maintenance is exhausted in satisfying our taste for adult
survival. The fact that few can have doubted this since the physiocrats has nothing

to do with proof. The shock, anyhow, is in the expected recovery of human

Chapter 3: Foundations 1/11/16 16

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010987
