te OK ok

Towards My Personal Sex-Positive Feminist 101

There's an aphorism from the early 1900s literary critic Andre Maurois: The difficult
part in an argument is not to defend one's opinion but to know it. Even though I identify
as an activist and genuinely want to make a real impact on the world based on my
beliefs... I often think that much of my blogging has been more an attempt to figure out
what I believe, than to tell people what I believe. And sometimes, I fall into the trap of
wanting to be consistent more than I want to understand what I really believe -- or more
than I want to empathize with other people -- or more than I want to be correct. We all
gotta watch out for that.

But I'm getting too philosophical here. (Who, me?) The point is, I am hesitant to write
something with a title like Sex-Positive 101, because not only does it seem arrogant
(who says Clarisse Thorn gets to define Sex-Positive 1017?) -- it also implies that my
thoughts on sex-positivity have come to a coherent, standardized end. Which they
haven't! I'm still figuring things out, just like everyone else.

However, lately I've been thinking that I really want to write about some basic ideas that
inform my thoughts on sex-positive feminism. I acknowledge that I am incredibly
privileged (white, upper-middle-class, heteroflexible, cisgendered etc) and coming
mostly from a particular community, the BDSM community; both of these factors inform
and limit the principles that underpin my sex-positivity. I welcome ideas for Sex-Positive
Feminism 101, links to relevant 101 resources, etc.

te ok ok

Some Central Sex-Positive Feminist Ideas, according to Clarisse Thorn

1) Desire is complicated, and people are different. These ideas both seem basic and
obvious to me as I write them, but I wanted to put them out there because I think they're
useful anchors for all the rest.

2) Gender is not a binary, and gender cannot be determined by a person's outer
appearance or behavior. Different people experience and display gender in a galaxy of
ways. No woman in the world is perfectly submissive, perfectly hourglass-shaped,
perfectly kind, etc, although these are stereotypes commonly associated with women. No
man in the world is perfectly dominant, perfectly confident, perfectly muscular, etc.
While many people reduce the idea of a person's gender to whether they have a penis or a
vagina, the existence of trans people and intersex people proves that this isn't a valid
approach. Individual people have all kinds of qualities that are attributed to the other
gender... and the concept of an other (or opposite) gender is weird in itself, because
why does one gender have to be the other, and what does that imply?

All this having been said, gender is frequently perceived as a binary, and many people fit
themselves into the possibly-arbitrary system of gender that currently exists. There are
ideas of men and women that are culturally understood, widely adopted, and socially
enforced. Feminism has its roots in women resisting men's violent and social dominance,
and in women resisting the cultural emphasis on stereotypical men's desires.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018480
