My reading of the Mill paragraph says that if we plowed back only depreciation
investment, without invading consumption for more, we would still grow if that
investment paid off in higher returns than the current norm. Then capital would
grow faster without making consumption grow slower. The gain in output, even
though we had invested only enough to make up for depreciation while keeping
consumption the same, would have been split into some for capital growth and
some for more consumption. And Mill gave the reason for the gain in output. The
driver was “whatever increases the productive power of labor”. He was talking
about better ideas. We would make returns higher if we could make capital more

productive at the same cost.

This possibility troubled Nobelist Robert Solow, who came reluctantly to a
conclusion most of the way toward Mill’s a century later. He felt that growth should
not be a gratuitous deux ex machina arriving at its own whim. How could Mother
Nature say “Shazam” and turn less into more whenever new ideas come along?
Didn’t the capital chicken have to grow before the output egg? Didn’t we have to
tighten belts to invest in new plant applying those new ideas? But the evidence
seemed to say that the rise in output came first. Rise in capital followed. Thrift
seemed to play little role. Tests by others have tended to find the same thing since.
My own tests, using new data from national accounts and my own new testing
method shown in my charts and tables, reduces the role of thrift to zero. How could

that be?

How could better kinds of capital arrive without costing more, at least at the start,
than the kinds we already knew? My best guess is that the cost of innovation in
failure rates and learning curves is the cost of being human, that we pay it about the
same every day, and that growth happens when the worth of innovation proves
more than the cost. It can because we are human. The cost of being human means
the cost of adapting. It is how we cope. We turned in our fangs and fur in exchange

for the savvy to make tools and fire and clothing do better. Other creatures adapt

Chapter 2: Fast Forward 1/06/16 4

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010944
