If Bannon were to go, it also might cause the ultimate split in the already fractured
Republican Party. Before the election, one theory suggested that a defeated Trump would
take his embittered 35 percent and make hay with a rancorous minority. Now the alarming
theory was that as Kushner tried to transform his father-in-law into the kind of latter-day
Rockefeller that Trump, however implausibly, had on occasion dreamed of becoming
(Rockefeller Center being an inspiration for his own real estate branding), Bannon could
run off with some meaningful part of that 35 percent.

This was the Breitbart threat. The Breitbart organization remained under the control of
the Mercers, and it could at any moment be handed back to Steve Bannon. And now, with
Bannon’s overnight transformation into political genius and kingmaker, and the triumph of
the alt-right, Breitbart was potentially much more powerful. Trump’s victory had, in some
sense, handed the Mercers the tool with which to destroy him. As push came to shove and
the mainstream media and swamp bureaucracy more and more militantly organized
against him, Trump was certainly going to need the Mercer-backed alt-right standing up in
his defense. What, after all, was he without them?

As the pressure mounted, Bannon—until now absolutely disciplined in his regard for
Donald Trump as the ideal avatar of Trumpism (and Bannonism), rigidly staying in
character as aide and supporter of a maverick political talent—began to crack. Trump, as
almost anyone who had ever worked for him appreciated, was, despite what you hoped he
might be, Trump—and he would invariably sour on everyone around him.

But the Mercers dug in. Without Bannon, they believed the Trump presidency, at least
the Trump presidency they had imagined (and helped pay for), was over. The focus
became how to make Steve’s life better. They made him pledge to leave the office at a
reasonable time—no more waiting around for Trump to possibly need a dinner
companion. (Recently, Jared and Ivanka had been heading this off anyway.) The solution
included a search for a Bannon’s Bannon—a chief strategist for the chief strategist.

In late March, the Mercers came to an agreed-upon truce with the president: Bannon
would not be fired. While this guaranteed nothing about his influence and standing, it did
buy Bannon and his allies some time. They could regroup. A presidential aide was only as
good as the last good advice he gave, and in this, Bannon believed the ineptness of his
rivals, Kushner and his wife, would seal their fate.

OOK Ok

Though the president agreed not to fire Bannon, he gave Kushner and his daughter
something in exchange: he would enhance both their roles.

On March 27, the Office of American Innovation was created and Kushner was put in
charge. Its stated mission was to reduce federal bureaucracy—that is, to reduce it by
creating more of it, a committee to end committees. In addition, Kushner’s new outfit
would study the government’s internal technology, focus on job creation, encourage and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020018
