12

implemented; now, current demands have gone beyond it. The king
himself has expressed frustration many times over this, both in
domestic speeches and in international appearances. When Fareed
Zakaria asked him about the future of reform in Jordan in a World
Economic Forum debate aired on CNN on February 7, 2010, the king
volunteered the following answer regarding the reform process over
the last ten years: Sometimes you take two steps forward, one step
back. There is resistance to change. There is a resistance to ideas.
When we try to push the envelope, there are certain sectors of society
that say this is a Zionist plot to sort of destabilize our country, or this
is an American agenda. So, it's very difficult to convince people to
move forward. The king faces a formidable task any time a reform
process is initiated, as he must confront, address, or co-opt the
traditional constituency of the regime. Finding a way of doing this-
whether through attempting to arrive at a consensus among the
different societal forces, changing the make-up of his coalition,
substituting certain benefits to the traditional constituency with
others, or convincing the political elite that the status quo is
unsustainable-will determine to a large degree whether a serious
reform process will ever gain traction. The various attempts to put
economic liberalization in the country ahead of political reform did
not succeed either. While it is easy to argue that citizens want bread
before freedom, economic liberalization took place without the
development of a system of checks and balances and resulted in the
benefits of economic reform being usurped by an elite few. To the
average citizen, neither bread nor freedom was attained. As a result,
the public has come to view liberalization and globalization
negatively. Economic reform must be accompanied by political
reform, such that institutional mechanisms of accountability are
developed to monitor excesses and ensure benefits are made available
to all. Finally, no reform process can be effective without sustained

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030071
