and overall well-being of their adherents.
In addition, the sciences would help
them refine their grasp of the empirical
world about which they are, like humans
in general, constantly making judgments,
predictions, and characterizations. In
my vision, the attitude of scientists
toward religion would be first of all
phenomenological; they would first
attempt to describe and understand
religious beliefs, ethics, and rituals in
their full historical context. But their
interest in explaining some of the
conditions that give rise to religious
phenomena would not be inhibited by
either religion or the wider society.
There are several different approaches to
phenomenology. The perspective that I
recommend follows the “critical
hermeneutic phenomenology” of Paul
Ricoeur. Ricoeur advocates beginning
the study of religion with a
phenomenology — a careful description —
of the person’s or community’s words,
symbols, metaphors, and narratives used
to communicate the meaning of a
religious experience or practice. This
view assumes that we cannot describe
experience directly but rather that
experience is always mediated by
symbols and metaphors. But Ricoeur’s
phenomenology does not stop with a
description of these meanings. It builds
in a secondary place for science and
explanation. It seeks through science to
give explanatory accounts of the affects
and motivations that humans bring to
these words, symbols, and metaphors. If
scientists followed Ricoeur’s model,
they would understand the importance of
beginning with description, be hesitant
to skip lightly over initial
phenomenological meanings, appreciate
yet grasp the limits of explanation, and
be reluctant to plunge into speculations,
such as those of the new scientific

Page |32

atheism, about the ultimate truth or
falsity of religious phenomena.”

On the other hand, the religions
themselves can contribute to the
sciences. They can do this by offering
hypotheses about how social and
religious ideas, behaviors, and rituals
can shape experience, even neural
processes, often for the good but
sometimes not. The religions can offer a
more generous epistemology and
ontology than science is inclined to find
useful for the tight explanatory interests
of the laboratory or scientific survey.
This too might generate new hypotheses
for scientific investigation. These would
be some of the ground rules for how a
dialogue between science and religion
might stimulate a revived religious
humanism.

Religious Humanisms of the Past

To speak of a revival suggests
that there have been many expressions of
religious humanism in the past when
some form of science, philosophy, and
religion creatively interacted. I will
limit myself to speaking primarily about
Judaism, Christianity, and Islam. A
synthesis between Greek philosophical
psychology and Christianity can be
found in the use of Stoic theories of
desire by the apostle Paul, * the presence
of Aristotle’s family ethic — with its
implicit psycho-biology - in the
household codes of Ephesians and I
Colossians, * and the gospel of John’s
identification of Jesus with the Platonic
and Stoic idea of the pre-existent
“Word.” A more intentional religious
humanism can be found in Augustine’s
use of the neo-Platonic Plotinus,
especially in the philosophical
psychology of remembrance developed
in his Confessions.° But the most
dramatic example of a religious

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021278
