TERSON

yanted one, you can have one.
t. That’s totally [up] to you, I'm

ble for anything I say, right?
a witness. I’m talking to you as
to you. You wanna talk to me?

ig you everything I know. I'ma

irst meet, um—
yas at a beach resort on Singer
2d by this girl 1 went to school
-d]. And she was asking me, you
, money, I know this @iiyies
y gave her a call, and her and her
th me. L actually picked them up
rey’s house. She introduced me,

do] you mean by making money,

‘ith Jeffrey?
_There’s two ways you can make

‘alk to me. Talk to me like, like

going to sound really sleazy, but—

k to me. |
Jeffrey starts off with giving him 4

lo with him, the more you make.

2. e.
ur clothes, you're gonna make mor

‘you, youre gonna make more.

you mean, touch you?

56

Firtyy Ricu

DOBBS: Yeah. Touch you in inappropriate places.

RECAREY: Okay. Does he use his hand? Does he—

DOBBS: He uses his hands and, I really wouldn't call ita vibrator —
I guess it’s like a massager? But um—I was one of the girls
that refused to do that. I did it basically my—I did it naked,
but I wouldn’t let him touch me or anything like that. So after
that he’s like, “You know what?” He’s like, “Listen, I'll pay
you $200 for every girl that you bring to me.” He’s like, “I
don’t want you to massage me anymore, you know, just bring
girls to me....” So that’s the other way you can make money.
For every girl that you bring to the table—so, for every girl
that I brought to Jeffrey —I would make $200. Flat. Just right
there.

RECAREY: Just to bring a girl.

DOBBS: Yeah. Just to bring a girl.

RECAREY: Okay. And the girl that was going knew that she
would have to massage him.

DOBBS: She knew everything. She knew everything. That was
one of Jeffrey’s rules. He had a problem with girls coming to
the house that didn’t know what they were getting into. He
would tell me, you know, “Make sure these girls know what I
expect, make sure they know what they want, because when
I get in that room I don’t want them to—you know—they
need to know.” And, as far as [redacted]’s case, she knew
everything she was getting herself into. It was all volunteer.

RECAREY: Okay. What did you tell her that she was gonna do?

DOBBS: I told her the same thing. I told her, you know, this guy
Jeffrey —she came to me saying she needed money, da da da.

I basically told her about it. She was like, um, you know,
“What do you have to do?” I told her. I was like, “The more

OF

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019173
