Scott Link
June 19, 2019
Page 2

wanted to leave She learned about a talent search for models and persuaded her
mother to take her. She was a huge success and began modeling at age fourteen. Though her
parents disparaged her for marketing her appearance, they allowed her to work because she
earned more than their combined income.

At age sixteen, J moved to New York City to model. She lived in an
apartment for models, with one or two roommates and no adult on the premises. Her father was
deeply ashamed of her because he disapproved of her profession and her parents distanced
themselves.

HE days were hectic with professional assignments. She worked with top tier
clients and for DNA Modeling Agency, a well-known agency representing supermodels such as
Linda Evangelista and Natalia Vodianova.

ME was very innocent and inexperienced prior to meeting Mr. Epstein. At age
sixteen, MM experienced her first kiss. The director of a perfume campaign, Fabian
Barron, wanted a kiss at the end of the commercial as a finale to a perfume ad. She dreaded her
parents’ reaction to seeing the commercial. She was raised in the Orthodox Christian Church
where abstinence was encouraged.

ME ct Jeffrey Epstein when was sixteen years old. She was introduced
through a fellow model a few years her senior.

Mr. Epstein seemed bigger than life. He did not drink or do drugs, which put her at ease.
He was friends with former President Bill Clinton, the President who made it possible for Hil
HE and her family to immigrate to America. When she told Mr. Epstein how her family
came to America, Mr. Epstein said he would personally thank “Bill” for her. Mr. Epstein touted
other impressive connections. He made it known that he had A list celebrities on speed-dial.

She felt very fortunate to have made the connection with Mr. Epstein.

As estrangement from her family increased, Mr. Epstein’s role in her life
became more and more important. He encouraged her and built her confidence. She trusted him
completely.

Mr. Epstein told Ee he was on the board of directors at Harvard
University. He promised that once she took her SATs and obtained the scores she needed, he
would write a letter of recommendation for her, which he said would carry significant weight
with regard to her admission. Her dream was to establish herself as a successful model and to
one day graduate from Harvard. Mr. Epstein made her feel that everything she wanted was
possible.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010561
