whatsoever” with the litigation in this case. See, e.g., Journal, Exhibit F, at 85 (Donald Trump);
at 9 (Bill Clinton phone numbers listed under “Doug Bands”).
‘E ederal Investigation and Plea Agreement With Epstein

19. In approximately 2005, the FBI and the U.S. Attorney’s Office in the Southern
_ District of Florida learned of Epstein’s repeated sexual abuse of minor girls. They began a
criminal investigation into federal offenses related to his crimes. See U.S. Attorney’s
Correspondence, Exhibit a a

20. At all relevant times Edwards has had a good faith basis to believe and did in fact
believe that to avoid the Government learning about his abuse of minor girls, Epstein threatened
his employees and demanded that they not cooperate with the government. Epstein's aggressive
witness tampering was so severe that the United States Attorney's Office prepared negotiated
plea agreements containing these charges. For example, in a September 18, 2007, email from
AUSA Villafafia to Lefkowitz (attached hereto as Exhibit “H”), she attached the proposed plea

agreement describing Epstein’s witness tampering as follows:

UNITED STATES vs. JEFFREY EPSTEIN PLEA PROFFER”

On August 21, 2007, FBI Special Agents E. Nesbitt Kuyrkendall and Jason
Richards traveled to the home of Leslie Groff to serve her with a federal grand
jury subpoena with an investigation pending in the Southern District of Florida.
Ms. Groff works as the personal assistant of the defendant. Ms. Groff began
speaking with the agents and then excused herself to go upstairs to check on her
sleeping child. While upstairs, Ms. Groff telephoned the defendant, Jeffrey
Epstein, and informed him that the FBI agents were at her home. Mr. Epstein
instructed Ms. Groff not to speak with the agents and reprimanded her for
allowing them into her home. Mr. Epstein applied pressure to keep Ms. Groff
from complying with the grand jury subpoenas that the agents had served upon
her. In particular, Mr. Epstein warned Ms. Groff against turning over documents
and electronic evidence responsive to the subpoena and pressured her to delay her

10

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010575
