so-called refugees — those who fled or left Israel during the 1947-
49 Arab attacks against the Jewish state, and their descendents — be
allowed to return to Israel. New borders would be meaningless if
this demographic bomb were to be dropped on Israel, turning it into
yet another Arab state with a Palestinian majority.

Everyone knows, as a matter of reality, that this is not going to
happen, just as everyone knows that Israel will eventually give up
most of the West Bank as it did the Gaza Strip. But it is critical to any
successful negotiation that these two issues — borders and the right
to return — be negotiated together. The Israelis will never agree to
generous borders for the Palestinians unless they are assured that
their identity as the nation-state of the Jewish people will not be
demographically undercut by the right of return. And the
Palestinians will never give up their emotionally charged right of
return unless that is an unambiguous prerequisite to achieving
statehood with generous borders. The Obama strategy — to demand
generous borders from Israel first and leave the right of return to
subsequent negotiations — is a prescription for stalemate.

The President also helped cement the status quo by expressing his
agreement with Israel's refusal to negotiate with a Palestinian
government that includes Hamas — unless that terrorist group first
renounces violence, accepts Israel and supports prior agreements. The
current position of the Israeli government is to invite the Palestinian
authority to begin negotiations now, but to insist, before any final
agreement is reached, that Hamas either accept the President's current
conditions or be excluded from the government. By going further
than the Israeli government — by seeming to justify an Israeli refusal
even to begin negotiations with the Palestinian Authority until Hamas
accepts those conditions or the Palestinian Authority rejects Hamas —
the President has made it harder for the Netanyahu government to
resist the demands of Israeli extremists who oppose all negotiations.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030273
