question (its differential equation) in the form of what is called its Jacobian matrix of
partial derivatives (a matrix representation of the differential equation indicating
orthogonal directional velocities of change of locations of the components of the
motion with respect to changing values of the control parameter), we know that

when the p of the matrix’s set of two complex conjugate eigenvalues is less than
zero, p <0, the orbit representing the system, spirals into a stable fixed point. This

is analogous to going to the bottom of the parabolic attractor basin as described
above. Values of the invisible eigenvalues and their changes constitute the abstract
mathematical mechanisms underlying the observable dynamics of the system
observable physically.

The mathematical mechanism underlying the Hopf bifurcation of fixed points
into limit cycles (associated with bi-directional splitting that accompanies the
amphetamine transformation into limit cycle stereotypy of rigid ideas and equally
likely mirror image motions in the directions of good versus evil) is the crossing of
the systems real valued parts, p’s, of its complex conjugate eigenvalues into
positive territory, o > 0. The mirror image of clock arrows is transformed from 8:00
and 10:00 o'clock to the clock locations of 4:00 and 2:00. At a Hopf bifurcation, a
pair of complex conjugate eigenvalues crosses the imaginary (vertical) axis such
that is real parts have positive value. In the orbit representing the motions of the
system itself, the fixed point disappears to be replaced by the action spiraling out to
an invariant circle. This is analogous to our manifold image of the disappearance of
the central attractive point and the sudden appearance of a small hill at the bottom
of a parabolic basic of attraction.. The new attractor is an invariant circular path
around the hill, with the spiraling out to the invariant circle being a two dimensional
picture of the disappearance of the bowl-bottom and appearance of a missing point,
hill top fixed point and a spiral flow to the path circling the hill. Underlying the
transition from a fixed point to a limit cycling, invariant circle, are a pair of mirror
image complex conjugate eigenvalues that turn in mirror image, we could say, good
versus evil, opposite directions. The Hopf bifurcating system inevitably has both.

The implications of this very abstract metaphor for the emergent limit cycle-

splitting style of spiritual transformation can be made deeper by considering the

164

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013664
