Through the Looking Glass | 261

puter disks containing hundreds of secret documents revealing the
sources and methods of American intelligence. According to Cher-
kashin, it was the largest haul of top secret documents ever obtained
by the KGB (although it was only a small fraction of the number of
top secret NSA, Department of Defense, and CIA documents taken
by Snowden in 2013). Cherkashin told me the price paid by Moscow
was a great bargain because it helped compromise “the NSA’s most
advanced electronic interception technology,” including a tunnel
under the Soviet embassy.

Yet it was only after newspapers reported that Hanssen had been
arrested by the FBI in February 2001 that Cherkashin learned the
name and position of the spy he had recruited. Cherkashin told me
that what mattered to the KGB was not “control” of an agent but the
value of the secrets he or she delivered. “Control is not necessary in
espionage as long as we manage to obtain the documents.” So in the
eyes of the KGB, anyone who elected to provide it with U.S. secrets
was a spy.

“All we knew was that he delivered valuable documents to us and

© asked for cash in return,” he said. “We didn’t control him; he con- ©
trolled us.”

An uncontrolled mole who provided secrets to the KGB and the
SVR for twenty-two years was very different from fictional moles
in the spy movies. I asked whether it would have been better if the
KGB had him under its control.

“Possibly,” Cherkashin answered. “But as it turned out, Hanssen
was by far our most valuable penetration in the Cold War.”

“Could Hanssen really be called a mole?” I asked.

“A ‘mole’ is a term used in spy fiction,” he said. “We prefer the
more general term ‘espionage source.’ ”

“So anyone who delivers state secrets to the KGB, for whatever
reason, is an espionage source?” I asked.

“Certainly, if the information is valuable to us,” Cherkashin
answered.

“If some unknown person simply delivered a trove of top secret
communications secrets to the doorstep of Russia, would it be
accepted?” I asked with Snowden in mind.

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.indd 261 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019749
