fend off boredom he collected all manner of interesting games

and puzzles. One day an inventor came to his palace and told the
King he had a game of such subtle complexity, yet apparent simplicity, the
King would play no other. The King learned the game and soon agreed it
was, without doubt, the best of all games. The game was, of course, ‘chess.
The King asked the price of this game and the inventor told him it was a
mere trifle. The King should give him one grain of rice on the first square
of the board, two on the second, four on the third, and so on, doubling
each square until he filled the board.

The King called his treasurer to honor the bargain and the first bags
were brought from the storehouse. The grains were placed on the board
in each square but soon there was not enough space and the grains had
to be piled on the table next to the board. Soon this, too, was not enough
and every table and chair in the hall had to be covered. Even this was not
enough and they began to stack whole bags up in the courtyard.

When they reached the thirtieth square, the treasurer turned white.
He sat and calculated for a while before saying with a trembling voice,
“My great ruler, there is not enough rice in all the world to cover this
board. The ruler called the inventor and told him he could not honor

r here was once a great King who lived in a marvelous palace. To

the debt and the inventor should name another price. The King had
two beautiful daughters, the first knew she was beautiful and deported
herself accordingly, and the second, was bookish and shy, but perhaps
more beautiful for this. The inventor asked for the hand of the second
daughter and lived happily ever after. In the less favorable version of this
story, the King becomes very angry and has the inventor beheaded. I
prefer the romantic version.

Placing rice on a chessboard and doubling it successively
leads to wildly large numbers. Covering it completely requires
18,446,744,073,709,551,615 grains, about four hundred trillion tons and
equivalent to one thousand years of worldwide rice production. Like
the king, humans do not intuitively grasp the enormity of this problem
because we're not good with large numbers.

Although the number of grains needed to cover a chess board
is very large, it is not hard to calculate. The treasurer is the one who
should have lost his head for not being able to do the calculation. The
equation is simply two, doubled sixty-four times, less one, 2-1. A pocket
calculator can produce this number in a thousandth of a second: it’s just
long multiplication. Although calculating this number is quick, it is not
always the case. Answers to some problems have short cuts, while others
do not.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015853
