know a simple answer. and today after asking at least every week since then donot have an answer. I have
been trying not to add stress to your day. i try to explain things and take the time to do so gently, ( not my forte
. this is one question out of hundreds. the fact that a 21 year old was in the office only xeroxing for a

month, was obvious to everyone in the office. having a 26 year old xeroxing instead doesnt move us

forward, answers first. copying old files. can wait.

Date: Wed, Apr 22, 2015 at 1:56 PM

Subject: another flowery email.

To: Melanie Spinclla TT i

Iam sorry. I realize you are under tremendous stress, In Bedford you asked me for my help I could not have
been more clear that thought it very unwise as in my words I did not want any financial arrangment between
us, it risked conflict and tension what neither of us needed more of. and did not want to risk torturing our
friendship into the likes of the kind you have with Mark nor Josh, : now,- I dont have anyone but you yelling
at me , in my own house. no one. it is highly unpleasant but I am trying my best to be understanding . sorry

. From the outset and as you told me you recall. 1 tsuggested that three years should be the period of
engagment. as planning is not a one year excericse . you declined to commit to a number of alternatives
presented to you for payment of the third year. I told you in nov that you should decide whether to now sign
on for that very third year as the vast majority of my work ended on oct 15. you recently told me you thought i
was kidding. .you hired brad patting him on the back that after months of inquiry he can now, finallly tell you
which Ile owns the cars??

once he has all the facts what next ??._ whether or not you refer to a portion of the third year as after care, or
whatever term besides 'scoundrel you choose to use, I m not sure why you assume now it should be free.(

I HATE THIS CONVERSATION < HATE, ) andi heard you when you said you told me what was | work
still to be done you thought valuable enough to pay for. please tell me . and then we can decide the next steps
»», 1f any. I consider my work rarefied art. I guess the value is in the eye of the beholder . IT reminds me of
those people looking at a modern art piece and saying  my child could do that. hope you are feeling better.

Date: Fri, May 1, 2015 at 12:50 AM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella

ada and brad are respondbile for the loan ,. docs, ata minimum, leon he hasn't read the financial

statements SINCE DEC. !!. impossible ,had he done so the silly numbers jump off the page . ( sent in another
email ). itis a financial office., 190 million sitting unused in CASH , budget and planning person for what , its
not a publice co. ? townhouse construciton , household operations, boat, plane, taxes, we went through this
with the cash flow. you and iknow approx how much each will cost. its a week job nota fulll time

one- ada has no lien copies. none. ?! impossible not to know , ask, quesiton? two senior accountants CPA
s. not the 75k girl that they hired, . IT professional backed by a firm. high quality,can we tap apollo
resources? new lawyer , heather level . new receptionist, and bookeeper. get rid of ava. next could be new
office ,znew furniture , , the whole place reeks of cheap. ITIS MAY<_ [have not been asked to interview one
person to date. notone. having cpas in there tomrrow woudl go along way. 1 dont understand the time
line, coo first. ? in by july?? cpas in by sept. tax return due oct 15. ?

Date: Fri, May 1, 2015 at 2:36 PM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella

I know that both you and I heard brads’. im out of here if i dont get a coo. . sorry,. i know that neither of us
have stood in the way of his finding/ gettting one.. JPM account DB account GS account, ??? its MAY

1. nothing in the first quarter and these are only papers that need signing.

I suggest your thinking on my role and compensation for my work might benefit , from a mental shift - think
mark and josh, without the mutual resentment (HAHA) only in terms of sharing ,thanks, Iam and have been
your financial partner 1.. rectifying circumstances that appear in hind sight unexplainable. I wish you woudl
have asked me earllier to review your things , but i understand. I do know that soley as a result of my actions

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023350
