first to point out that our agreement would cost you too much money, therefore

From day one I proposed to discount our agreement toa 50-60 million range. An extremely fair price
for all the transactions just completed . including Phaidon. - I was never told that this was out of
range. in fact, alternative methods of payment . ie my plane, or an -in-kind payment were discussed (ie
including keeping the 30m portion of the fee outstanding till March ) ,I provided , only because you
specifically requested a detailed step by step execution plan and reviewed all documents that i was given
access to. ( Phaidon was never forthcoming ) in order to make my many corrections . ( as i said more
needed on phaidon ). Iwas then told that Alans involvement warranted a discount . Even in the best
of light , though it is beyond question that not one time in the three years of his retainer has he ever
proposed a unique idea. (including any way to deal with the use issue on debras death ,or even the most
basic review of your largest asset by far , the BRH agreement. ) O.K. - lets say he made a contribution to
the plan and stretch reality beyond the pale and say it was 50 %. though no one could posit such a large
amount unless they were wearing a clown suit. , the payment and our formula of 37 percent associated
with the deal was known . It had both sent in writing and spoken about on the phone numerous times ,

a detailed execution plan was provided . then and only then, after the entire transaction was laid out for
the group to follow You told me that after a number of conversations with brad karp that a total of only
20m would be paid , (and even that was more than you originally contemplated ) for both transactions .
Leon I feel It was remarkably unfair. Did brad even knew of our prior agreements.? ?, I would ask that
you I and Brad karp sit together if you think it would be helpful. . I would like to send him this email, with
your consent of course. Ifthe transactions were never consummated , 1 would not be owed a dime,
however , the expected fee was known up front. , the detailed step by step plan was followed and
overseen by me, the amount that I had requested before the transaction had even begun, had already
been heavily discounted, out of friendship, . I believe the decision re only paying 20m has frankly , left
me felling quite uneasy. and colors the view about the Athene or Rothschild transaction.

Date: Wed, Jan 6, 2016 at 12:44 PM

Subject: Fwd:

To: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com>

PLEASE READ CAREFULLY ,

In the spirit in which it is sent. our friendship is intact and solid , though ,it has taken a hit.

Mark was here this morning , the proposed transactions are extremely complex . and would take a
great deal of my detailed time. I do not know how, and even, if ,to move forward - . After months of
hearing that you would have no problem paying a large fee if you could only ascertain value. The last
transaction. a transaction which you saved over 600 million in tax. declared bullet proof by your attnys,
and even if you want to disoccount for its future realization, creating a savings of over 300 million real
dollars. For some reason you chose to ignore our agreements , verbal written and emailed -and at the
very last minute , after the deal was complete decided that it was only worth 8 million dollars to you and
your family. . ( assuming phaidon -richard happens. there is a 24m savings not including artspace and
debt write down benefits- certain to come later .. IMPORTANT NOTE

the phaidon transaction as currently contemplated will not work . WILL NOT !!

When we had our meeting in your home in Bedford. You asked me for my help. I told you multiple
times that i thought it was a very bad idea, in that I greatly preferred to have no financial interactions. I
don't have many friends and didn't want money in any way to interfere with our unique relationship.
Reminder, For five years you had the kind, but very goofy Eileen Alexandersson as the sole manager of
your massive accounting , legal, investments. reporting, trusts etc. When I first told you in no uncertain
terms that I firmly believed she was incompetent you admonished me for  speaking out of both sides of
my mouth. With regard Brad Wechsler , there has never been a  both sides. . I have consistantly
maintained since day one that he was highly unsuited for the job. When you initially asked me to help

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023230
