178 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

interviews. In the case of Stone’s movie Snowden, Wizner asked for
the right to veto any shots featuring Snowden in the film. In it, he
would tell handpicked journalists that he had given all his docu-
ments to Poitras and Greenwald in Hong Kong and took none of
them to Russia. Wizner could then argue that documents such as the
FISA court order were improperly classified secret and that disclos-
ing them served the public good. The government might not be able
to contest his claim without further revealing NSA sources. Under
these circumstances, it might be induced to agree to a plea bargain
for Snowden. Changing the narrative would also help enhance his
public image as a whistle-blower.

Snowden’s new narrative that he had destroyed all the documents
he had in his possession before coming to Moscow and had no access
to any NSA documents, not even those that he had distributed to
journalists, was reinforced in a series of interviews that Wizner
helped arrange. “I went the first six months without giving an inter-
view,” Snowden later said. “It wasn’t until December 2013 that I
gave my first interview to Barton Gellman.” (Snowden did not count

® his Internet exchange with Risen in October as an “interview”.) ®

In late December 2013, Snowden met with Barton Gellman. It was
his first face-to-face meeting with a journalist since he had arrived in
Russia in June. Snowden turned his laptop toward Gellman and, as
if proving his point, said to him, “There’s nothing on it.... My hard
drive is completely blank.” That his computer had no files stored on
it at that moment of course meant very little. Just six weeks earlier,
Snowden had met with the former CIA officer Ray McGovern, who
had been invited to meet him in Moscow along with three other
American whistle-blowers. At that meeting, he told McGovern that
he had stored all the NSA data he had taken on external hard drives.
Gellman asked about the precise whereabouts of the files, but, as he
reported, Snowden declined to answer that question. He would only
say that he was “confident he did not expose them to Chinese intel-
ligence in Hong Kong.” That answer did not nail down the issue,
so Wizner arranged for Vanity Fair, which was preparing an article
on Snowden, to submit questions. In his reply to them, Snowden
wrote that he destroyed all his files in Hong Kong because he didn’t

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 178 ® 9/30/16 11:09 AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019666
