16 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

University of Maryland, she went on to law school, graduating with
honors. Unlike his sister, Edward Snowden experienced a string of
failures in his education. In 1998, after only one year of classes, he
dropped out of Arundel High School; according to school records,
he stopped attending classes at the age of fifteen. He later attributed
his absence from school to a medical problem, mononucleosis, but
according to Robert Mosier, a spokesman for Anne Arundel County
public schools, there is no record of any illness. Brad Gunson, who
knew Snowden before he dropped out of high school, recalled in an
interview with The Washington Post only that he had a high-pitched
voice, liked magic cards, and played fantasy video games.

Instead of completing a formal education, Snowden went his own
way. Still in his teens, he became the product of a broken home. His
parents were entangled in messy divorce proceedings until he was
seventeen. By this time, Jessica had her own apartment. When his
parents separated, Snowden’s mother bought a two-bedroom condo-
minium in Ellicott City, Maryland. She moved Edward, along with
his two cats, into the condominium, while she remained in the fam-

© ily house awaiting its sale. According to a condominium neighbor, ©
Joyce Kinsey, Snowden stayed home alone almost all the time. From
what she could observe, he spent long hours in front of a computer
screen.

At the age of eighteen, while other teens his age went to college,
Snowden was still living by himself, now devoting a large part of his
time to playing fantasy games on the Internet. Posting under the
alias TheTrueHooHa on a website called Ars Technica, he showed
himself to be a passionate gamer. He was especially drawn to anime,
a graphically violent style of Japanese animation. These anime
games had by 2002 achieved a fanatic following in both Japan and
the United States. He claimed special skills at Tekken, a martial arts
fighting game. He even went to anime conventions in the Washing-
ton, D.C., area. When he became a webmaster for Ryuhana Press,
a website running these anime-based games, he described himself
somewhat fancifully as a thirty-seven-year-old father of two chil-
dren. The only truth in his description was that he was born on “the
longest day of the year” (June 21).

He wrote Internet posts under his TrueHooHa alias about how he

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 16 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019504
