failure to be transparent about HIV. (The all-male group also noted women's selfish
impatience with erectile dysfunction,” women preferring men who last longer, women
preferring men with a lot of money,” and women not loving their husbands enough as
contributing factors to fidelity failure.) The group seemed pleased to work together, and
eager to address the problem. The question of members being pro- or anti-polygamy was,

apparently, only a side note.

As it happens, there are plenty of polygamy problems that have nothing to do with
HIV/AIDS. These divisions would exist without the disease. For instance, some
preachers who don't support polygamy will sanction divorce and remarriage. One man
told me that true polygamous marriage -- in which a man has many wives, all supported
simultaneously -- is slowly being replaced: rich men now often take younger wives, but
divorce and cast aside the previous wives first. The new approach looks suspiciously
like the Western model of serial monogamy”... except that the women, left with few
resources, rarely marry again. (The gender inequality is highlighted when only one
partner has HIV: an HIV-positive man will likely be nursed by his wife, while HIV-
positive women can fear anything from abuse to abandonment.) Partly because
abandonment is getting so common and partly due to doctrinal interpretations, there is yet
a third group of church leaders who not only reject polygamy but refuse to remarry
divorced people.

Most interestingly, I've noticed that from some perspectives, the current system appears
to stack the moral deck in favor of polygyny. A lot of the time, people will claim that
there are only three alternatives: (1) abandonment and/or deadbeat fatherhood, (2)
cheating, or (3) overt polygyny. If those are the alternatives, then even empowered
women will argue in favor of polygyny -- though not happily, since they're quite
conscious that a system supporting polygamy without polyandry is completely unfair.

For example, in the aforementioned July 2009 New African piece, titled The Sins of Our
Fathers, Akua Djanie reflects bitterly upon a father who ignored her mother in favor of
his second wife. She writes that she will encourage [her sons] to have a relationship with
only one woman at a time. And if they make the mistake of having children from
different women, I will make sure they are responsible for each and every one of them.
Then, however, she asserts that although I myself would never wish to be in such a
[polygamous] relationship, I think it can work, does work, and has worked in the past;
that the issue is not so much with the pros and cons of polygamy, but more with the
irresponsible behavior of some men; and that African men are still as polygamous as
they were in my father's heyday. In fact I believe that polygamy will never go away.
Djanie doesn't mention HIV once.

(It's worth noting that Djanie is very aware of Western cultural imperialism; she loathes
and deconstructs those who downgrade African culture in favor of Western. For instance,
her November 2009 New African piece was about how frustrating it is that Africans
usually model Christmas on Western standards, showing images of white children
frolicking in Alpine snow. Thus, her argument against polygamy is especially striking.)

Recently, I spoke to some grassroots HIV educators who go door-to-door in their rural
villages. They keep a list of different prevention tactics that they discuss with their
neighbors. Glancing through, I saw both Zero Grazing and Be Faithful side-by-side. I

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018587
