InsightsPod

Through the vast amounts of data available across social media, we not only help
politicians to understand what their constituencies are talking about but also to
influence people, track voters, and get them to vote.

Investors who predict stock behavior by interpreting the news and public sentiment
make better trades. InsightsPod can give an insight into public sentiment quickly and
can aid financial institutions, as well as individuals, to make sound investment
decisions

InsightsPod offers advanced analytics to businesses for better marketing and product
development decisions. Businesses can be aware of their product's demand, likability,
strengths, and weaknesses. InsightsPod has the ability to study products and brands
through social listening and customer engagement.

Market
Our primary market is:

e Well-known businesses such as Nike, McDonalds, Starbucks.

¢ Political parties - InsightsPod aims to provide consulting services to political
parties. We can help political parties in improving their reputation and increase
public following. InsightsPod aids in analyzing the data on social media and the
opinions of the general public on the Internet. Likewise, individual political
figures can examine the political landscape and the effects on their public image.

¢ Government sector - This mainly involves law enforcement agencies. InsightsPod
can aid LEA in tracking criminals and terrorist activities. The platform can also
provide data and analyze public opinion regarding various government projects
and initiatives.

e Investors - Fluctuation in the stock market, global economic activities and their
impacts on financial markets; all of this can be analyzed through InsightsPod.

Competition

Our main competitors in the market are:

| Page 2 |

CONFIDENTIAL - DO NOT DISSEMINATE. This business plan contains confidential, trade-secret
information and is shared only with the understanding that you will not share its contents or ideas with
third parties without the express written consent of the plan author.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028819
