Fam contacting billionaires to rubbing elbows with celebrities—the second group of students did both

—it’s as easy as believing it can be done.

It’s lonely at the top. Ninety-nine percent of people in the world are convinced they are incapable of
achieving great things, so they aim for the mediocre. The level of competition is thus fiercest for
“realistic” goals, paradoxically making them the most time-and energy-consuming. It is easier to raise
$1,000,000 than it is $100,000. It is easier to pick up the one perfect 10 in the bar than the five 8s.

If you are insecure, guess what? The rest of the world is, too. Do not overestimate the competition and
underestimate yourself. You are better than you think.

Unreasonable and unrealistic goals are easier to achieve for yet another reason.

Having an unusually large goal is an adrenaline infusion that provides the endurance to overcome the
inevitable trials and tribulations that go along with any goal. Realistic goals, goals restricted to the
average ambition level, are uninspiring and will only fuel you through the first or second problem, at
which point you throw in the towel. If the potential payoff is mediocre or average, so is your effort. Pll
run through walls to get a catamaran trip through the Greek islands, but I might not change my brand of
cereal for a weekend trip through Columbus, Ohio. If I choose the latter because it is “realistic,” I won’t
have the enthusiasm to jump even the smallest hurdle to accomplish it. With beautiful, crystal-clear
Greek waters and delicious wine on the brain, I’m prepared to do battle for a dream that is worth
dreaming. Even though their difficulty of achievement on a scale of 1-10 appears to be a 10 and a2
respectively, Columbus is more likely to fall through.

The fishing is best where the fewest go, and the collective insecurity of the world makes it easy for
people to hit home runs while everyone else is aiming for base hits. There is just less competition for
bigger goals.

Doing big things begins with asking for them properly.

What Do You Want? A Better Question, First of All

Max people will never know what they want. I don’t know what I want. If you ask me what I want

to do in the next five months for language learning, on the other hand, I do know. It’s a matter of
specificity. “What do you want?” is too imprecise to produce a meaningful and actionable answer. Forget
about it.

“What are your goals?” is similarly fated for confusion and guesswork. To rephrase the question, we
need to take a step back and look at the bigger picture.

Let’s assume we have 10 goals and we achieve them—what is the desired outcome that makes all the
effort worthwhile? The most common response is what I also would have suggested five years ago:
happiness. I no longer believe this is a good answer. Happiness can be bought with a bottle of wine and
has become ambiguous through overuse. There is a more precise alternative that reflects what I believe
the actual objective is.

Bear with me. What is the opposite of happiness? Sadness’? No. Just as love and hate are two sides of
the same coin, so are happiness and sadness. Crying out of happiness is a perfect illustration of this. The
opposite of love is indifference, and the opposite of happiness is—here’s the clincher—boredom.

Excitement is the more practical synonym for happiness, and it is precisely what you should strive to
chase. It is the cure-all. When people suggest you follow your “passion” or your “bliss,” I propose that

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013830
