The term of KUE will be indefinite, unless terminated earlier
in accordance with the Limited Partnership Agreement.

IHiquidity Period: KUE will operate for a period of seven years from the date of
the first closing of this offering. If there has not been an
Initial Listing by the end of seven years from the date of the
first closing of this offering, the Board of Directors of the
General Partner will determine whether to pursue a sale of
KUE or an Initial Listing (or a dual track process); provided,
however, in the event that not less than 75% of the value of
KUE at that time is represented by shares of securities listed
on one or more recognized international securities
exchanges and such shares have been or will be distributed
as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter to the Investors
and the Investors have received distributions of cash and/or
such securities valued at amounts equal to or in excess of
their original capital contributions, then there shall be two
extensions of one year's duration each in order for KUE to
complete either an Initial Listing or to have the remaining
value of KUE represented by shares of securities listed on a
recognized international securities exchange and to
distribute such shares to the Investors. The Board of
Directors shall approve the desired course of action.

If the Board determines to pursue a sale of KUE (or an Initial
Listing or a dual track process), then the Principals must
determine at such time whether they intend to participate as
a potential bidder in the sale process.

If the Principals elect not to participate as a potential bidder
in a sale process, then they will not be allowed to
subsequently elect to participate as a potential bidder unless
the sale process does not result in a buyer at a price the
Independent Committee deems to be fair. If the sale
process results in a transaction that the Independent
Committee deems to be fair, the Principals will be required
to sell their entire stake in KUE (Common LP Units and
Profits Participation LP Units on an as converted basis} on
the same terms as the Investors.

if the Principals elect to participate as a potential bidder in a
sale process, then the sale process will be managed by the
Independent Committee and the Principals will be precluded
from participating in Board deliberations regarding the sale
process. In addition, the Principals will be required to sell
iheir entire stake in KUE on the same terms as the Investors
to the winning bidder in the event the Principals do not
submit the most attractive bid.

In the event that a sale of KUE or an Initial Listing has not
occurred within nine years from the date the first Investors
are admitted to KUE, the Independent Committee shall
determine whether to pursue a sale of KUE (or an Initial
Listing or a dual track process). A majority vote of the

37

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024470
