the conditions for the practice of diplomacy in our future and, when that fails, the
landscape for decisive military or economic moves. Mastery of these systems will
provide a rich set of creative ways to increase our security, far more effective than
the unilateral and inconclusive military force we largely turn to now. A sensibility
for networks will unmask developments that look friendly as in fact deeply
dangerous. It will reveal that some of what may appears a threat is in fact an key to
security. But this instinct for seeing differenlty has largely not settled upon our
leaders.

Already the emergence of network power is producing strange collisions. Iran
versus Twitter. The hacking collective Anonymous striking against Mexican drug
lords, terrorists and Russian television. Tor versus the NSA. The use of financial
networks to crack human trafficking webs. Biological surveillance sensors in cites
used to fight disease contagion spreads — a network of machines laid against a
network of bugs.®® I mean this at nearly every scale. Waves of networked
autonomous armed drones, for instance, may be among the greatest tactical military
threats of the next few decades; the only hope of defense against them will be still
better-enabled, self-thinking and learning defensive meshes, themselves capable of
response at a pace dictated by links of machine learning and communications.
Writing in 1890, the great American historian and admiral, Alfred Thayer Mahan,
produced “The Influence of Sea Power upon History” in which he attempted to
convince an age obsessed with land forces of the enduring, decisive power of armed
ocean fleets. Hannibal’s smashing attacks against Rome, Mahan wrote, or Napoleon's
failure against England - in each case “mastery of the sea rested with the victor.”°?
Our future will bring, almost certainly, a study of the “Influence of Network Power
upon History”. Here is aa line as true in diplomacy as it is in business or politics:
Mastery of networks - the links of data and trade and security information and
finance and others - will rest with the victor.

For the most part, the order the American and European world has been
accustomed to since the Treaties of Westphalia ended the Thirty Years War in the
17% century bottled the power to make large-scale change inside states. Nations
held a monopoly on the use of force, in a sense. They used it. Violent, state on state
struggles were the defining events of global affairs. In such a world, the country with
the most power, the greatest material reserves, the strongest sense of national
destiny, also enjoyed the most security - and the most options. A few hundred
thousand British imperial troops overmastered India in this fashion. And a handful
of really powerful nations struggled over centuries for dominance of the whole
system. Statesmen sought, and even occasionally achieved, temporary balances
between the lurching and violent resets of wars that erupted like a sort of pressure-

68 Biological surveliance: The foundational text of network battle thinking is John
Arquilla and David Ronfeldt, eds. Networks and Netwars: The Future of Terror, Crime,
and Militancy (Santa Monica: RAND, 2001). For a discussion of the biological issues,
see Eugene Thacker, “Living Dead Networks”, in Fiberculture Journal No. 4 (2005)

69 Hanibal’s smashing attacks: Mahan, The Influence of Sea Power upon History
1660-1783 (Boston: Little, Broan & Co. 1890), iv

52

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018284
