<Kuhn Foundation IRS Tax Exempt Determination Letter 1999, 2015.pdf>

On Feb 15, 2017, at 4:17 PM, jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote:

is ita charity that received the funding?
On Wed, Feb 15, 2017 at 1:27 AM, Robert Lawrence Kuhn <i wrote:

Pardon the formality below - I want to approach your very legitimate questions / concerns in a serious
manner.
Attached and below the same.

Dear Jeffrey:

As requested, the following addresses your two questions / concerns about our proposed Closer To Truth TV
series “The Science of Sleep and Dreams”:

(i) Have there been sufficient breakthroughs in Sleep and Dreams (significantly beyond traditional
understandings) to justify a major TV series?

(11) Even if ‘yes’ to (1), is now the proper time for such a foundational series, or are more years needed for
corroborative studies and further research to solidify the breakthroughs?

In preparing this response, my primary source is Professor Patrick McNamara, Department of Neurology,
Boston University School of Medicine, with whom CTT Producer/Director Peter Getzels and I spoke with at
length today. Patrick is one of the leading sleep and dream researchers (he himself more dreams). More
importantly, he is perhaps the leading chronicler of the field, with many publications (including 26 entries in
related encyclopedias). He is co-editor-in-chief of the “Encyclopedia of Sleep and Dreams” (2012) and

the sole author of the forthcoming “An Introduction to the Neuroscience of Sleep and Dreams” (Cambridge
University Press, 2018), which intends to present the latest science and to become a main textbook for
graduate courses/seminars. Patrick is a CTT contributor and colleague.

When we asked Patrick, his first response — “This is the ideal time to tell the sleep-and-dreams story” — and
he cited (in essence) your two questions, in that (i) the multiple breakthroughs are now sufficiently well
corroborated by numerous independent labs such that a substantial foundation for the new, deeper
understanding of sleep and dreams is now for the first time (over the past few years) confirmed and
established, and (11) there are now interesting application and critical clinical questions to pose, explore and
pursue, such as for the treatment of various mental-related illnesses that have known sleep-related syndromes
(e.g., PTSD and Depression).

To understand the significance of recent breakthroughs, a defining characteristic of sleep and dreams is that
there are two distinct kinds of sleep —- REM (rapid-eye-movement) Sleep and NREM (non-rapid-eye-
movement) Sleep. Most dreams are associated with REM sleep (though complex). The eye movement

gives the eponymous name, but a more important designation defines the two stages in terms of brain waves
(electroencephalograph — EEG): REM is Fast-Wave Sleep (similar to the waking state) and NREM Sleep is
Slow-Wave Sleep (very different from the waking state). This difference between REM and NREM sleep
has been known since 1953 (different EEGs since 1937), but its deep significance has only been discovered
and confirmed in very recent years (as explained below).

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025111
