ull

Page 5 of 8

Figure 1 also depicts the approximate ICW crossings and points of entry (POEs) of the
transmission mains to the Town. The scale of the map does not allow an accurate depiction of
the POEs associated with the mains. Maps of the Town’s distribution system provided by the
PWD, generated at a significantly larger scale, were used to reference the locations of the
POEs for the transmission mains.

SAMPLING AND ANALYSIS OF THE DRINKING WATER PRODUCT DELIVERED TO
THE TOWN
As a means to independently evaluate the quality of the drinking water being delivered to the
Town, on November 14, 2008 HSA, accompanied by an employee of the City’s Public Utilities
Department, sampled distribution system tap IDSE #6, representing the northern-most extent
of the system, and tap 3230, representing the southern-most extent of the system,. Figure 1
depicts these sampling tap locations.

Sampling was performed by modification of the City’s (distribution system) General Sampling
Procedures to reflect the intended exclusion of sampling equipment, field parameter testing,
associated equipment calibration requirements. Samples were collected in laboratory-
supplied, unpreserved and pre-preserved containers. As required by select analytical
methodologies, at the sampling locations preservative was added to those sample containers
immediately prior to filling or to the water sample immediately prior to sealing the sample
container.

Collected water samples were submitted to FDOH/NELAC-certified testing laboratories for
analysis for typical public potable water system routine and compliance monitoring parameters
including Primary Drinking Water Standards (excluding select Disinfection Byproducts,
Haloacetic Acids; Bromite; and Chlorite), for Secondary Drinking Water Standards, and for
Total Coliform as listed in the Florida Administrative Code rule 62-550. Test America
Laboratories performed all of the analyses for chemical parameters. Jupiter Environmental
Laboratories performed the analyses for the microbiologics.

RESULTS FROM INDEPENDENT ANALYSIS OF THE CITY’S DRINKING WATER
PRODUCT

Results of laboratory analysis for target Primary and Secondary Drinking Standards yielded all
chemical and physical parameters below method detection limits (MDLs) or less than
respective maximum contaminant limits (MCLs).

Results of laboratory analysis for target microbiologicals yielded an absence of Total Coliform
in the water samples collected from northern-most Tap A (IDSE #6) and southern-most

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016685
