Hunky Josh Brolin tells me he is coming to New York in March to shoot
two new films. He is working on producing and starring in The Hunchback
of Notre Dame with Tim Burton as a future project.

I am now inches away, face to face with Harrison Ford and stupidly tell
him I love him in Morning Glory. He is looking at me in utter
disbelief and I will not shut up. A gorgeous guy is also inches away in
a hat, glasses, jacket, layered sweater and scarves. I whisper to
Harrison, That looks just like Johnny Depp. Harrison rolls his eyes
and reluctantly introduces me to his friend Johnny Depp. I babel a bit
about his great work and run for cover to a corner next to my buddy,
Jerry Bruckheimer. Jerry introduces me to the wives, Vanessa Paradis and
Calista Flockhart. I bore them with girly chit-chat and realize it's
time to get out of there.

I head over to the CAA/Bryan Lourd Friday Night Party. Torrential
rains and horrific winds cause a traffic jam that makes it impossible to
get near the house. Cell phones do not work. The world's most famous
faces cower under black umbrellas and make a run for it.

Bryan Lourd and Bruce Bozzi receive friends at the door all night.
Inside Uma tells me she finally moved into a doorman building in New
York after being terrorized by stalkers for years. Talented, Ben Walker
talks about Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter he is about to shoot as
his fiancé Mamie Gummer looks sexy shivering in a white satin gown.
Producer Jon Kilik mentions he oversees a new cut of Julian Schnabel's
Miral to be released in March. Bennett Miller, standing with Kristin
Gore says Sony loves his new film Moneyball and Brad Pitt is terrific.
(When is Brad Pitt not terrific?) Sandy Gallin tells me he has an actual
job decorating Jeffrey Katzenberg's home and he has never been happier.
I congratulate Barry Levinson's son, Sam, a director, for winning the
writing award at Sundance for his first film, Another Happy Day which
is inspired by his family.

Also seen floating around are, Taylor Swift and Jake Gyllenhaal, but not
together, Sean Penn, Tom Curise and Katie Holmes, Anderson Cooper,
Hilary Swank, Kelly Ripa, Carrie Fisher, Bruce Weber, Sean Combs, Paul
Haggis, Marisa Tomei, Jay Roach, Kate Beckinsale, Demi Moore and Ashton
Kutcher, Kate Hudson, Gerard Butler, Leo DiCaprio and Bar Refaeli, Renee
Zellweger with Bradley Cooper, Biutiful director Alejandro Gonzalez-
Inarritu, Kathryn Bigelow and Mark Boal, Ellen Barkin who is headed to
Broadway in The Normal Heart this spring and CAA’s Kevin Huvane,
Richard Lovett and Hylda Queally.

Busy Bruce Cohen who is producing Sunday's awards broadcast tries to get
his car to leave. Limo lock is at a standstill. Nothing is moving

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012694
