An inkling of something entirely different, neither human psychology nor
frenzy, was an unanticipated benefit of being at England’s Warwick University in
sabbatical residence in Math House #2. This large, round, many windows and black
boards, study with a small upstairs bedroom was one of the apartments for visiting
professors behind the Warwick Mathematics Institute in the English Midlands. |
attended a variety of churches and synagogues on the weekends. The perspective
that emerged for me at Warwick was that rabbinic Haggadah, inferences to be
drawn from imaginatively spawned narrative, isn’t the same thing as Halakhah, the
law dictated by Jewish legal tradition; that geometric insight and other intuitions
aren’t the same as mathematical proofs; that the mystical visions of the English
romantic poet and illustrator, William Blake, were not necessarily consistent with the
scientific observations and logical arguments of the contemporary Scottish
philosopher, David Hume. Paul Tillich wrote that the wisdom attendant to primary
spiritual experience that was without the unconditional character of sensible moral
obligation was not to be trusted without critical analyses. | learned that among High
Episcopal and Reformed Jewish English academics, God is not a hallucinogen, but
more like a spiritually based, social contract.

In his 1929 essay, Mysticism and Logic, Bertrand Russell noted mysticism’s
preference for: (a) Insight over discursive analytic knowledge; (b) Belief in the unity
of all things over oppositions or divisions in representational thought; (c) The denial
of the reality of time, even in the divisions of past, present and future; (d) Belief that
evil is unreal, manufactured by the innate divisiveness in some analytic intellects. In
modern brain hemispheric and other neuropsychological philosophies, these
countervailing descriptions of external observables can grow naturally out of the
brain’s abilities to maintain logically incompatible perspectives simultaneously.
Right-brain aesthetic holism in contrast with /eft-brain categorical analytics recalls a
popular example. Would one chose Blake or Hume to better explain how the time
dimensions of memory disappear with the scent of a past lover or the hearing of his
favorite music for lovemaking.

In the inevitable mix of primitive instinct with high purpose, the visiting

professors’ Math House #2 had an aura of infamy. It was the one in which, by the

170

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013670
