Did Mr Epstein remove those cameras before police raided the property as part of the investigation into alleged crimes? Did Mr
Epstein ever hand over any recordings from any cameras at his properties to the authorities as part of his non-prosecution
agreement?

Does Mr Epstein have in his possession any video recordings of Donald Trump taken from inside his Palm Beach estate or any other
residence?

Did Mr Epstein hold sex parties at his residences involving girls under the age of sexual consent? Was Donald Trump ever present at
any of these parties?

Has Mr Epstein upheld the conditions of his sentencing and registered as a sex offender in all jurisdictions in which he is due to do so?

Does Mr Epstein have any comment regarding allegations made by a woman named in the media a clating
to her being sexually abused by Mr Epstein or used as a sex slave?

ENDS

On 13 August 2018 at 14:52, Martin G. Weinberg I wrote:
If you still want, send the questions. | would talk with you off the record after reviewing them (reserving the right at my
option to make an on the record statement), hope that works for you. Marty

From: Matt Williams
Sent: Saturday, August 11, 2018 12:41 PM

To: Martin G. Weinberq
Subject: Re: Viceland

Hello Martin,

Thank you for getting back to me. We would be looking for on record comments or a no comment to our
questions. But | am certainly happy to have an off record conversation with yourself as well. Perhaps we
could set up a time to chat briefly off record on Monday before | send you our questions for Mr Epstein?

Kind regards,
Matt

On 11 August 2018 at 11:08, Martin G. Weinberg (AE wrote:

Mr Williams, | am in receipt of your emails to Jackie Percyzk. If you first agree that any communications between you
and me are off the record, | would be agreeable to receiving your questions or a clip of the episode that relates to Mr
Epstein. Thanks.

Martin G Weinberg PC
20 Park Plaza

Suite 1000

Boston, MA 02116
Tel

Cell

Virus-free. www.avast.com

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022820
