that was it. ada was at the bank but reviewing docs. carlyn was in the kitchen making mush ( abel and

cain)
books as they were mystersiously called was being kept soley by eileen, with little or no input ,correction
or advice from tom. herarely if ever asked questions. expenses ie airplane was done in house apollo.
(1031 exchange blown etc) at this time
as I recall you got quite annoyed, and agressive and initiated the talking out of the both sides of your
mouth  tiddy, when i suggested that the level of their competence left much to be desired. ( ralph lerner's
came later ) .response - eileen ran the desk, tom is a partner, ralph wrote the book etc

re tax there was almost no oversight of income, estate, gift ,sales and use, transfer excise etc . IRS
SEC GAMING NYS. real estate, valuations ( many )tax _filings- disclosures, etc. re grats trusts defect
trusts, llcs corps , trustees , partnerships. foreign corps. 100 bank accounts. gift taxes, , loans, notes.
payables. expenses. . , insurance.( life , art, split dollar), cashflows, operating biz, , investments,
contingent liabilitiites.( funds , miami ) , commitments dividends, BRH TRA, shareholder agreements,
bank loan agreements. wills, construction, , contracts planning permits etc..employ rules. checking
account reconciliations, crediti cards. jewelry , cost basis ,( art stock etc.) foundations regs , brokerage
accts, old stock certificates. stock options,( environmental solutions still not done !). estate tax
calcualtion firedrill, ( note ,basis etc ) low basis , step ups , however withno accounting system, no
reveiw of boat expenses plane expenses etc. . many outside counsel with litle or no coordination.
Paul Weisss , Mcdermit Will, Macfarlanes. Price Waterhouse , Reich, withers bergman, Empire, , akin
gump, bbd seidman, Wendy , Apollo in house .
lumber, knowledge universe, ennvironmental, solutions 12 mii in stock, . on and on
the priority list that you asked me to prepare for brad and you in dec , unfortunatlleyso far , little change
ie no accounting system that ties, no, brokerage accounts though strongly suggested , jpm db, gs, april
of 2014 . IT antiquated
dagastino hired , no inut from me, julie, temps, paralegals miriam . etc.
still need new accounting system - on line banking . staff hires. ( seprate from samantha two years out of
school ). audit system, . ?? john murphy? joslin? dag? eva? . i strongly suggest workers at the highest
level of competence. two senior accountants. not managers workers who will get into the weeds. partn
expertise, , replace ava, get heather help. a new person legal , new IT,system and person, way way
overdue, new receptionist, bill opener, ability to oeversee
in house, boat plane review household ( 12million ) review, filings- partnerhip accounting,- familitarity
with grats, trusts etc . audit system put in place. that should be the easy part. then strategy to deal with :
As new facts on the ground develop , phaidon debra, children meeetings, ? stock sale sale of art, , apt(
large gain ), 1031 trade in , plane depreciation, boat sale. construction , brad will oversee brokerage and
investment, ?? pe. real es, . publishing, grats, tra, brh ( death). foundation , museum, tax proejctions cash
flow projections, cooridnation with tax from apollo. etc

Date: Tue, Jun 30, 2015 at 12:23 PM
Subject:
To: Melanie Spinella PT
1.I believe Ihave heard you , but i wanted to make certain that I have understood

Though after much discussion ,- much! you were adamant that i receive my fee only at the very END of
my work, oct 15 _, this was a long discussion but you felt very strongly at the time . you now feel that as it
was a very large sum of money . some of my time this year should be spent on your recent concept of
after care. - and that after care should be for free . I have continued to pay others as well.

I have asked and you have previously said you would lay out for me what you thought was encompassed
by the concept. that was end of january Training brad?? who was your choice . not mine ,by a long
shot. only brought on in january? ? hundreds of hours spent . eileen debrief? 2. boat. plane household

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023280
