and lovers, or offers an ass-backwards sort of deal in which Epstein has to
go to the Palm Beach authorities and convince them to charge him with an
offense that will send him to jail and get him a sex offender status. Except
that a solicitation charge won’t produce that result. Therefore he has to agree
also to a procurement or pimping charge (even though he has paid money,
not received it—the sine qua non of pimping). What’s more, he has to agree
to pay the legal fees of any of the girls who want to sue him—and, not to
defend himself in their suits—forcing him to settle with each of the girls for
what are reportedly high 6-figure sums or more.

He’s sentence to jail in 2008 for 18 months and serves 13.

This hardly ends the legal catch all. Epstein's butler, Alfredo
Rodriguez, steals and tries to sell an alleged journal or calendar with
Epstein’s activities—but he tries to sell it to an undercover agent. Rodriguez
is sentenced to 18 months in jail on a charge of theft and of withholding
evidence. Scott Rothstein, a lawyer whose firm represented additional girls
in their suits against Epstein, also goes to jail for recruiting investors to pay
for these suits on the fraudulent basis that settlements had already been
reached.

Then, Brad Edwards, Rothstein’s former partner, sues the government
in 2008 for abridging their rights under the Victim Rights Act (under which
victims have the right to be consulted). In 2014, tries to ad Virginia Roberts,
one of the original complainants, who has previously settled with Epstein, to
the long-running suit—and is now, with Edwards, further suing him for
$50,000,000.

Roberts who has been the most vocal of the accusers, with the Daily
Mail being her prime outlet, emerges now, more than ten years after the fact,
with what is billed as a memoir of her “sex slavery” with Epstein, written ten
years after the fact. She names a number of people as being at Epstein’s
Island home, including Clinton and Al Gore and his wife, who Epstein
insists were never there—proof available through secret service records.

It is hard to find a more hyperbolic intersection of media and lawyers
then in Epstein’s case.

Edwards, over the six years of his law suit, tries to depose Clinton,
Donald Trump, and Dershowitz—almost all of his targets coming directly
from the original Vanity Fair and New York Magazine articles about
Epstein.

In addition to Prince Andrew as a British hot button, first connected to
Epstein through Roberts’ interview with the Daily Mail in 2010, Clinton
takes on a new role as Hillary spoiler through his connection, real or
imagined, to Epstein and sex slaves.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022968
