200 11 Stages of Cognitive Development

Implication

My eye is facing a block and it is not dark

A relationship is created describing the block’s color
Similarity

My body

My teacher’s body

|-
Implication

My teacher’s eye is facing a block and it is not dark
A relationship is created describing the block’s color

This sort of inference is the essence of Piagetan “theory of mind.” Note that in both of
these implications the created relationship is represented as a variable rather than a specific
relationship. The cognitive leap is that in the latter case the relationship actually exists in the
teacher’s implicitly hypothesized mind, rather than in CogPrime’s mind. No explicit hypothesis
or model of the teacher’s mind need be created in order to form this implication-the hypothesis
is created implicitly via inferential abstraction. Yet, a collection of implications of this nature
may be used via an uncertain reasoning system like PLN to create theories and simulations
suitable to guide complex inferences about other minds.

From the perspective of developmental stages, the key point here is that in a CogPrime
context this sort of inference is too complex to be viably carried out via simple inference
heuristics. This particular example must be done via forward chaining, since the big leap is to
actually think of forming the implication that concludes inference. But there are simply too
many combinations of relationships involving CogPrime’s eye, body, and so forth for the PLN
component to viably explore all of them via standard forward-chaining heuristics. Experience-
guided heuristics are needed, such as the heuristic that if physical objects A and B are generally
physically and functionally similar, and there is a relationship involving some part of A and
some physical object R, it may be useful to look for similar relationships involving an analogous
part of B and objects similar to R. This kind of heuristic may be learned by experience—and the
masterful deployment of such heuristics to guide inference is what we hypothesize to characterize
the concrete stage of development. The “concreteness” comes from the fact that inference control
is guided by analogies to prior similar situations.

11.4.3 The Formal Stage

In the formal stage, as shown in Figure 11.7, an agent should be able to carry out arbitrarily
complex inferences (constrained only by computational resources, rather than by fundamental
restrictions on logical language or form) via including inference control as an explicit subject of
abstract learning. Abstraction and inference about both the sensorimotor surround (world) and
about abstract ideals themselves (including the final stages of indirect learning about inference
itself) are fully developed.

Formal stage evaluation tasks are centered entirely around abstraction and higher-order
inference tasks such as:

1. Mathematics and other formalizations.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013116
