28

The eastern approaches are similarly secured by desert, which begins
about 20 to 30 miles east of the Jordan River. While indigenous
forces exist in the borderland east of the Jordan, they lack the
numbers to be able to penetrate decisively west of the Jordan. Indeed,
the normal model is that, so long as Israel controls Judea and Samaria
(the modern-day West Bank), then the East Bank of the Jordan River
is under the political and sometimes military domination of Israel —
sometimes directly through settlement, sometimes indirectly through
political influence, or economic or security leverage.

Israel's vulnerability is in the north. There is no natural buffer
between Phoenicia and its successor entities (today's Lebanon) to the
direct north. The best defense line for Israel in the north is the Litani
River, but this is not an insurmountable boundary under any
circumstance. However, the area along the coast north of Israel does
not present a serious threat. The coastal area prospers through trade
in the Mediterranean basin. It is oriented toward the sea and to the
trade routes to the east, not to the south. If it does anything, this area
protects those trade routes and has no appetite for a conflict that
might disrupt trade. It stays out of Israel's way, for the most part.
Moreover, as a commercial area, this region is generally wealthy, a
factor that increases predators around it and social conflict within. It
is an area prone to instability. Israel frequently tries to extend its
influence northward for commercial reasons, as one of the predators,
and this can entangle Israel in its regional politics. But barring this
self-induced problem, the threat to Israel from the north is minimal,
despite the absence of natural boundaries and the large population.
On occasion, there is spillover of conflicts from the north, but not to
a degree that might threaten regime survival in Israel.

The neighbor that is always a threat lies to the northeast. Syria — or,
more precisely, the area governed by Damascus at any time — 1s
populous and frequently has no direct outlet to the sea. It is,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031861
