80

and comprehensive China to the world, and raise the country’s soft power and the
influence of Chinese culture.”° External propaganda work has long been an important
foreign policy instrument for the Chinese Communist Party and the People’s Republic

of China, but under Xi it has become a top priority of China’s party-state.

State Media

China’s Communist Party and government have a long history of trying to influence
international opinion. Over the years, the themes of its external propaganda have
varied substantially—usually in parallel with dramatic fluctuations in its own domestic
political campaigns (G&s) and related slogans (O45), shifts in ideology GBiR#A), meta
propaganda narratives (#234), and substantive elements in China’s diplomacy (J43).

The shifts in Beijing’s propaganda lines (Bf##4z) throughout PRC history have been
dizzyingly consistent, but they are always important to follow as indicators of the

country’s direction.

During the 1950s, Communist China used organizations such as the China News
Service, a successor to the Party’s International News Agency (founded in 1938), to
appeal to overseas Chinese for support of the new revolution. The Party placed this
news service under the State Council’s Office for Overseas Chinese Affairs. Other
propaganda campaigns targeted allies in the Western world, such as black nationalist
figures from the United States like Robert Williams, who were given airtime on
shortwave broadcasts from Beijing, and a few Western writers and journalists, like
Edgar Snow, Felix Greene, and William Hinton, who were offered rare, and sometimes

lucrative, peeks behind the Bamboo Curtain.

During the Cultural Revolution, from 1966 to 1976, Beijing’s propaganda outreach to
overseas Chinese slowed, as the Party persecuted those in China with foreign ties. But
following the arrest of the Gang of Four in 1976 and the economic reform program
led by Deng Xiaoping in the early 1980s, the Party once again directly engaged with
the overseas Chinese community as well as with mainstream Western society and
media, appealing to all comers to help China modernize. In 1980, the Party formed
the External Propaganda Group (W\84%4)48) and placed it under the Propaganda
Department of the CCP Central Committee. Zhu Muzhi, the former chief of the
Xinhua News Agency and a vice minister of propaganda, was its first head. In 1991, the
group was transferred to the State Council, where it was still internally referred to as
the External Propaganda Group. For foreign consumption, however, it was called the

State Council Information Office.

Media

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020539
