early age, but with important developmental changes in play. There is a tendency for children to both
recognize inequities early in life, but to act selfishly when possible. The envy game shows this
beautifully. When another child could receive more, children rejected this option even though it wouldn’t
cost them directly: the decider always gets just one candy. Though no one has yet worked out what
causes a developmental shift from more to less selfishness, most agree that it is driven by maturation of
brain regions guiding self-control, together with social factors that make young children increasingly
aware of and sensitive to their own and others’ reputations. Fehr’s studies also show that playing fair is
not just about the distribution of resources, but about who gets them. Early in life, children have already
carved up the world into those they know and those they don’t. This division drives their thinking and
feeling, and in cases like this, their sense of fairness. Young children are well on their way to developing
parochial altruism.

Fehr’s research, and the majority of studies on the child’s developing sense of fairness, focus on
children living in large-scale Western societies. Most of the work on fairness in adults is similarly
focused on large scale societies. The precise structure of these societies may directly impact how
individuals decide when to share, what commodities enter into the distribution, and whether sharing
depends on effort invested, needs, and power. As noted in the last section, those who support an
egalitarian society are more likely to feel empathy toward those in pain than those who support a
hierarchical society. Individuals who are more empathic are also more altruistic. Hunter-gatherer
societies tend to be more egalitarian, and highly cooperative. These differences predict further
differences in how those living in small-scale societies, including the hunter-gatherers and subsistence
farmers of Africa, Asia, and South America, should respond to unfair exchanges.

The American anthropologist Joseph Henrich and his colleagues presented a set of bargaining
games to adults living in different small-scale societies across the globe. Though the subjects in this study
played a number of different games, the basic goal was similar to those deployed by Fehr in his studies of
children and adults: under what conditions will individuals choose to share an equal as opposed to an
unequal distribution of resources?

Consider the ultimatum game. One individual decides how to distribute a fixed amount of money
to an anonymous partner; in the Henrich games, he always used the local currency and an amount that
was appropriate for the society. The partner had two options: keep what is on offer or reject it. Rejection
is costly to both players as they leave empty handed. Rejection is both an expression of sour grapes for
what could have been — a fair offer — and punishment for selfish behavior. In large scale societies,
offers typically range from 40-50% of the initial pot, and rejections are common for offers less than about

20%.

Hauser Chapter 2. Runaway desire 71

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012817
