Introduction: On the Promise and Peril of AI
John Brockman

Artificial intelligence is today’s story—the story behind all other stories. It is the Second
Coming and the Apocalypse at the same time: Good AI versus evil AI. This book comes
out of an ongoing conversation with a number of important thinkers, both in the world of
AI and beyond it, about what AI is and what it means. Called the Deep Thinking Project,
this conversation began in earnest in September 2016, in a meeting at the Mayflower
Grace Hotel in Washington, Connecticut with some of the book’s contributors.

What quickly emerged from that first meeting is that the excitement and fear in the wider
culture surrounding AI now has an analogue in the way Norbert Wiener’s ideas regarding
“cybernetics” worked their way through the culture, particularly in the 1960’s, as artists
began to incorporate thinking about new technologies into their work. I witnessed the
impact of those ideas at close hand; indeed it’s not too much to say they set me off on my
life’s path. With the advent of the digital era beginning in the early 1970s, people stopped
talking about Wiener, but today, his Cybernetic Idea has been so widely adopted that it’s
internalized to the point where it no longer needs a name. It’s everywhere, it’s in the air,
and it’s a fitting a place to begin.

New Technologies=New Perceptions

Before AI, there was Cybernetics—the idea of automatic, self-regulating control, laid out
in Norbert Wiener’s foundational text of 1948. I can date my own serious exposure to it
to 1966, when the composer John Cage invited me and four or five other young arts
people to join him for a series of dinners—an ongoing seminar about media,
communications, art, music, and philosophy that focused on Cage’s interest in the ideas
of Wiener, Claude Shannon, and Marshall McLuhan, all of whom had currency in the
New York art circles in which I was then moving. In particular, Cage had picked up on
McLuhan’s idea that by inventing electronic technologies we had externalized our central
nervous system—that is, our minds—and that we now had to presume that “there’s only
one mind, the one we all share.”

Ideas of this nature were beginning to be of great interest to the artists I was
working with in New York at the Film-Makers’ Cinémathéque, where I was program
manager for a series of multimedia productions called the New Cinema | (also known as
the Expanded Cinema Festival), under the auspices of avant-garde filmmaker and
impresario Jonas Mekas. They included visual artists Claes Oldenburg, Robert
Rauschenberg, Andy Warhol, Robert Whitman; kinetic artists Charlotte Moorman and
Nam June Paik; happenings artists Allan Kaprow and Carolee Schneemann; dancer Tricia
Brown; filmmakers Jack Smith, Stan Vanderbeek, Ed Emshwiller, and the Kuchar
brothers; avant-garde dramatist Ken Dewey; poet Gerd Stern and the USCO group;
minimalist musicians Lamonte Young and Terry Riley; and through Warhol, the music
group, The Velvet Underground. Many of these people were reading Wiener, and
cybernetics was in the air. It was at one of these dinners that Cage reached into his
briefcase and took out a copy of Cybernetics and handed it to me, saying, “This is for

99

you.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016812
