Delving into the lives and minds of world leaders is an undoubtedly
helpful, exciting, and informative way to find answers, but a conflict as
multifaceted and complicated as the Israeli-Palestinian dispute cannot be
fully explained without taking into account the opinions of the ordinary
people who live the reality every single day. Millions of Israelis and
Palestinians on both sides of the green line have had their voices drowned
out by the very politicians, lawmakers, and personalities who purport to
represent them.

The result is a host of unanswered questions. What does the average
Israeli or Palestinian think about the chances for a lasting and
comprehensive peace agreement? What types of concessions need to be
given for a deal to be struck? Do Israelis have the political courage to
sacrifice on settlements and Jerusalem so the conflict can finally be
resolved? Can the Palestinians negotiate in good faith?

Luckily, polling organizations in Israel and Palestine have spent years
trying to answer these very questions, often working together and sharing
their resources during the hunt.

Two of the latest polls, one from the Jerusalem Media and
Communications Center (JMCC) and the other from the Palestinian Center
for Policy and Survey Research (PCPSR), are particularly telling. Unlike
other surveys that confirm what most in the international community
already think, the results of these polls are unprecedented, revealing a
stark and disturbing malaise in the Palestinian territories.

The message is clear: frustration with the conflict is at a high point, the
two-state solution is steadily losing credibility in the eyes of the people,
and ordinary citizens in the Holy Land are starting to wonder whether a
settlement can be achieved without another round of bloodshed.

Oslo Fatigue

When asked by the PSPSR whether Mahmoud Abbas’s policy of peace
talks or armed resistance by Hamas is the best way to achieve a
Palestinian state, an alarming 60 percent of Palestinians surveyed threw in
their lot with armed resistance (compared to 28 percent who favored
negotiations). With the eight-day Israel-Hamas war having ended with a

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018220
