o » website maintenance (social websites like Facebook, Myspace,
etc). ’m planning on doing most of my marketing through
these sites in 2009 and I’m on about 25+ sites as an artist.

My VA (gettriday.com, as recommended in your book) does all the updates and checks
the sites once a week to gather e-mail messages, comments, etc., filters them and sends me a
report once a week including all the details for me to respond to. (Saves about one to two
hours/day.)

> photo retouching for my press pics is done by elance (saved five
hours of work time and about $500).

> Management of my mailing list for gig dates, album updates, etc.
(Saves about one hour for each mailing.)

e » I started testing muses (learning languages with music to sell
online). I’m still testing!

» I decided to open a publishing operation online for film companies
to license music for film with just a mouse click, without having
to negotiate deals for months. It will happen in 2009 (I start
testing soon). People are generally surprised and amazed that a
person who doesn’t seem to be very corporate (I look like a
retired punk rocker, haha) outsources parts of his life and lives
like a millionaire (I guess we do although we’re far from it!).

I realized that I could do it after I got the first positive feedback from my outsource VA. I got the
results of my project posted on elance and a day later I got the results. I went, yeah baby, this is MINE!
The biggest change is, that I now have my life under control. I take care of my little daughter (20
months) half the day (second half, my wife takes care of her), I take care of business, and I take time to
do things I always wanted to do. Revenue-wise I’m pretty much the same I was before but I have a lot
more spare time and a clear head (so I guess I’ve gotten a lot richer!).

I work whenever I want (no boss) about 24-30 hours/week (including office hours and music-studio
hours) and what I do now is only what I really love to do. I’m still step-by-step optimizing efficiency to
reduce office hours (currently about 10 hours/week). My dream is to dissolve my office altogether, go
paperless, and basically only have my laptop as an office.

I eliminated all work that has gotten me down or was wearing me out (eliminated an extra workload of
about 10 hours/week). I do not take on jobs (writing/producing music) unless I really love the project. I

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014018
