Table of Contents

ITEM 1—ELECTION OF DIRECTORS

Our Board recommends that the nominees below be elected as members of the Board at the annual meeting to serve for a three-year term
expiring at the 2022 Annual Meeting.

DIRECTOR
NAME AGE SINCE POSITION
Gregory Sullivan 60 2017 Director
Dan Quayle 72 2017 Director

Each nominee was recommended for re-election by the Compensation and Nominating Committee for consideration by the Board and proposal
to our stockholders. If, before the annual meeting, any nominee becomes unable to serve, or chooses not to serve, the Board may (i) nominate a substitute
(i1) allow the vacancy to remain until the Board identifies an appropriate candidate or (iii) reduce the size of the board to eliminate the vacancy. If the Board
chooses to nominate a substitute nominee, the persons named as proxies on the proxy card will vote for that substitute nominee.

The Board of Directors recommends that you vote “FOR” each of the director nominees.

DIRECTOR NOMINEES

Dan Quayle has served on our Board since the completion of our initial public offering (“IPO”) in 2017. Mr. Quayle has served the United
States Federal Government in various capacities: congressman, senator, and as the 44th vice president of the United States of America from 1989 to 1993.
Since 1999, Mr. Quayle has been with Cerberus Capital, a New York private investment firm. He has served as chairman of Cerberus Global Investments
since 2001. Mr. Quayle earned a B.A. degree in political science from DePauw University and a J.D. from the Indiana University Robert H. McKinney
School of Law. We believe Mr. Quayle is qualified to continue to serve on our Board because of his experience as the chairman of Cerberus Global
Investments, LLC, as well as his extensive experience in the areas of government, foreign relations, and private investment.

Gregory Sullivan has served on our Board since the completion of our IPO. Mr. Sullivan is the co-founder and chief executive officer of
AFAR Media, a travel media company he co-founded in 2007. From 1995 to 2007, Mr. Sullivan served the DriveTime Automotive Group, Inc.
(‘DriveTime”) in various capacities, including as president from 1995 to 2004, chief executive officer from 1999 to 2004, and vice chairman from 2004 to
2007. Mr. Sullivan earned a B.B.A. degree in finance from the University of Notre Dame and a J.D. from the University of Virginia School of Law. We
believe that Mr. Sullivan is qualified to continue to serve on our Board because of his senior management experience in the automotive and media
industries.

-8-

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024316
