Now, New York friends are suddenly hesitant to talk about Maxwell. She's a high-end 'fixer', and so what?
they ask. No one in café society gives a damn that a 15-year-old girl gives massages, says one frequent
charity-benefit guest. She gets people into parties and runs around for a lot of people. As to the fallout from
her association with Epstein, he says, If you're Mike Huckabee it would matter but not if you're Ghislaine
Maxwell.

The crowd at the events top publicist Peggy Siegal has organized for Epstein proves the point, at least behind
closed doors. I and many others that know him describe him as brilliant, says Siegal. His unique mind is
what attracts the world's smartest people to his home. Last September, with Siegal's help, Epstein hosted a
Break Fast after Yom Kippur. A group of 120 friends brought their children over for a buffet dinner. One
attendee, Jonathan Farkas, a New York real-estate heir, has known Epstein for 35 years and visited him while
he was in prison. The side I've been reading about 1s a side I don't know, he says. Farkas considers Epstein
one of the smartest people he knows and often asks him for investment advice. Unless I've seen it, I don't focus
on it, he says.

From a cerebral and business side he's worshipped, says socialite Debbie Bancroft. He's incredibly
charming and handsome. He's an extraordinary package so I can see why people don't want to believe what
they hear. If people come out of jail and are still successful, people are very forgiving, shockingly so.

Renowned scientists whose research Epstein has generously funded through the years also stand by him.
Professor Lawrence Krauss, a theoretical physicist and author of Quantum Man, has planned scientific
conferences with Epstein in St. Thomas and remained close with him throughout his incarceration. If
anything, the unfortunate period he suffered has caused him to really think about what he wants to do with his
money and his time, and support knowledge, says Krauss. Jeffrey has surrounded himself with beautiful
women and young women but they're not as young as the ones that were claimed. As a scientist I always judge
things on empirical evidence and he always has women ages 19 to 23 around him, but I've never seen anything
else, so as a scientist, my presumption is that whatever the problems were I would believe him over other
people. Though colleagues have criticized him over his relationship with Epstein, Krauss insists, I don't feel
tarnished in any way by my relationship with Jeffrey; I feel raised by it.

Alexandra Wolfe is a former contributing editor to Conde Nast Portfolio. She has written for publications
including The New York Times, New York magazine, The New York Observer, and The Wall Street Journal,
where she wrote design and lifestyle features for the Weekend Journal section. She is working on a book
called American Coddle, about America's culture of entitlement.

Like The Daily Beast on Facebook and follow us on Twitter for updates all day long.

-----Original Message-----
From:
Sent: 03 April 2011 12:36
To: Peter Green
Subject: Re: Daily Beast

| cant open anything that is not underlined in blue sorry Peter iam not good at computer stuff.When are you
coming here soican call Catherine Crier please nothing to maryanne about thsi jonathan

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021091
