e Hip-Hop Artist Nas
e distinguished academics and poets from Harvard and elsewhere

Participants and Filmed Conversations include:

e President Bill Clinton, Herbie Hancock, poet Sonia Sanchez, and children from the
Harlem Children’s Zone on disappointment and discrimination (filmed in Harlem and
LA)

Nas on traditions of American urban long-form poetry

Lena Dunham on truth-telling and romantic love (filmed in Brooklyn)

Woody Allen on poetry, sincerity, and morality

Supreme Court Justice Elena Kagan on poetry and the law

Vice President Al Gore on poetry and the environment

Robert Frost biographer Jay Parini with Harvard students on trauma (filmed in
Vermont)

Alfre Woodard on Gwendolyn Brooks and rebellion

Senator John McCain on love and loyalty to comrades (filmed in Washington DC)
Katie Couric on grief and self-control

NBA athletes Shane Battier and Jason Collins on form and basketball

B. PROJECT ACTIVITIES

The activities of this proposal fall into three major categories: production, post-production, and
distribution. The activities involve collaboration between academics, professional course
developers, curricular designers and video producers.

Poetry in America has amassed well over one hundred hours of high quality instructional
video, including dozens of interpretive conversations with well-known personalities across the
professions. Some additional production is expected, and a crew is now assembled to
accomplish additional production in a cost effective manner. The post-production stage will
involve discussion and planning with the Harvard Graduate School of Education and other
educational and media partners based on this current sizeable archive of raw video footage.

At the post-production stage, we will shape and edit the raw footage into curricular content for
teachers, and produce classroom-ready video. The post-production team, led by an
experienced course developer and producer, will also include a professional
videographer/editor with experience in creating high-quality pedagogy, a media manager, and
a curriculum design team comprised of an instructional designer and IT specialist. HGSE will
develop graduate course materials, including classroom-usable lesson plans, based on video
content. Courses offered will include uncoached, lightly coached and fully coached versions of
teaching poetry in the classroom. Teachers enrolled in coached versions of the course will
receive real-time classroom support by HGSE instructional staff.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023436
