international pressure to make Hamas agree to those conditions. But
Hamas is afraid to fall into the same trap that others, like Fatah, have
fallen into without getting anything in return except loss of popular
support, as was demonstrated in the elections seven years ago. In light of
the demands that the movement should recognize the two-state solution
and make political commitments, some influential circles within the
Hamas leadership think that the movement is being drawn into going
beyond its rational political discourse and how it deals with the reality on
the ground, and into recognizing Israel and exchanging messages with

it. However, the siege has made the Palestinian territories miserable. So
decision-makers in Hamas are forced to issue hints and signals that do not
affect the movement’s general principles. Those signals, however, may be
misunderstood. And this is where the problem lies. No one thinks that
Hamas supporters will make a big deal of those signals, but any concrete
steps toward recognizing Israel will cost Hamas dearly, something which I
don’t think Hamas wants during this dangerous phase. At the external
level, Hamas’s enemies and opponents may think that the siege has finally
paid off, albeit a little late, and that Hamas’s current declarations are
signals that, if the siege and the Palestinian suffering continue, the
movement may explicitly recognize Israel, which would open the
“appetite” of Hamas’ opponents for more breakthroughs in its ideology
and principles.

Not an existential conflict, but a border dispute.

Although Hamas is aware of all that, it should be noted that in a few
months it is facing elections during which the movement’s signals that it
may accept a two-state solution will be used in a fierce anti-Hamas
campaign. Even though the movement has provided a different
administrative performance than before, the fundamental change in the
movement’s political program may be a decisive factor for the Palestinian
voters. As Hamas is being smothered, with a few breaches here and there,
the demands that it should recognize Israel are ongoing and without letup.
In other words, Hamas must choose between recognizing Israel to stay in
power, or losing what it has achieved democratically as punishment for
having to refused to bow to the world’s conditions. In reality, the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028739
