224 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

was called MICE. It stood for Money, Ideology, Compromise, and
Ego. The KGB used the first element, money, to compromise Dunlap.
After he was compromised, it exploited him by getting him to steal
NSA secrets. He had access to such secrets because he became the
personal driver to Major General Garrison Coverdale, the chief of
staff of the NSA. After Coverdale retired, he became the driver for
his successor, General Thomas Watlington. These positions afforded
him a security clearance and, even more important, a “no inspec-
tion” status for the commanding general's cars that he drove. This
perk allowed him to leave the base with secret documents, have them
photocopied by his KGB case officer, and then return them to the files
at the NSA base before anyone else knew they were missing. He also
used, likely at the suggestion of the KGB case officers, his “no inspec-
tion” perk to offer other NSA employees a way of earning money.
He would smuggle off the base any items of government property
that they took. Once he had compromised them through thefts, he
was in a position to ask them for intelligence favors. This NSA ring
could not be fully investigated because of his untimely death. Other

© than the packets of undelivered NSA documents found in his home, ©
the investigation was never able to assess the total extent of the KGB
penetration of NSA secrets. (Angleton suspected Dunlap was mur-
dered by the KGB in what he termed a surreptitiously assisted death,
to prevent Dunlap from talking to investigators.)

The Russian intelligence services continued recruiting mercenary
spies in the NSA for the duration of the Cold War. The KGB suc-
cesses included Robert Lipka, a clerk at the NSA in the mid-1960s,
who was caught in a sting operation by the FBI and sentenced to
eighteen years in a federal prison. Ronald Pelton, an NSA analyst,
was recruited after he retired from the NSA. After he was betrayed
by a KGB double agent in 1985, he was sentenced to life imprison-
ment. Finally, there was David Sheldon Boone, an NSA code clerk,
who between 1988 and 1992 provided the KGB with NSA docu-
ments in return for $60,000. Boone, sentenced to twenty-four years
in prison, was the last known KGB recruitment of the Cold War.

During the Cold War, Russian intelligence service officers oper-
ated mainly under the cover of the embassies, consulates, United
Nations delegations, and other diplomatic missions of the Soviet

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r.indd 224 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019712
