ATTERSON

ecutors presented Epstein a
jus state felony charges (that
prisonment, registration as a
ation for the victims) or else
trial.
2ar-long assault on the prose-
_Luse the word assault inten-
this case was more aggressive
prosecutors in my office, had
fr. Epstein hired an army of
‘rofessor Alan Dershowitz, for-
‘dine Law Dean Kenneth Starr,
5 the President and then Kirk-
_efkowitz, and several others,
o had formerly worked in the
in the Child Exploitation and
Justice Department. Defense
| meeting with me to challenge
terms previously presented by
meeting with Mr. Black. The
let with defense counsel in Fall
he office’s position: two years,
n, or trial.

months, the defense team pre-
irgument claiming that felony
tinst Epstein were unsupported

ced a basis in law, and that the 4
time was motivated by a zeal to =
ly because he is wealthy. They 4
nts with legal opinions frou

208

Fittuy Ricu

well-known legal experts. One member of the defense
team warned me that the office’s excess zeal in forcing a
good man to serve time in jail might be the subject of a
book if we continued to proceed with the matter. My
office systematically considered and rejected each argu-
ment, and when we did, my office’s decisions were
appealed to Washington. As to the warning, I ignored it.

The defense strategy was not limited to legal issues.
Defense counsel investigated individual prosecutors and
their families, looking for personal peccadilloes that may
provide a basis for disqualification. Disqualifying a pros-
ecutor is an effective (though rarely used) strategy, as
eliminating the individuals most familiar with the facts
and thus most qualified to take a case to trial harms like-
lihood for success. Defense counsel tried to disqualify at
least two prosecutors. I carefully reviewed, and then
rejected, these arguments.

Despite the army of attorneys, the office held firm to
the terms first presented to Mr. Black in the original
meeting. On June 30, 2008, after yet another last minute
appeal to Washington D.C. was rejected, Epstein pled
guilty in state court. He was to serve 18 months impris-
onment, register as a sexual offender for life, and provide
restitution to the victims.

Some may feel that the prosecution should have been
tougher. Evidence that has come to light since 2007 may
encourage that view. Many victims have since spoken
out, filing detailed statements in civil cases seeking dam-

_ ges. Physical evidence has since been discovered. Had
_ these additional statements and evidence been known,

209

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010549
