enables you to ramp up or down the activity in the pleasure center. Want to get a bit more out of your
dinner, a movie, tennis stroke, work, or sex? Flip the switch. Want to buffer yourself from the pain of
ostracism, a romantic break up, or a colonoscopy? Flip the switch. Would you buy it? Ifso, what would
you use it for, and would you be a habitual user? Would you worry about any side effects? Might using
this device become addictive, or worse, either destroy the feeling of pleasure altogether or push you into a
never-ending quest for satisfaction, with each dollop of pleasure leaving you wanting a bigger dollop next
time around. This may seem like science fiction, but it’s closer to non-fiction.

Over fifty years ago, scientists working with rats, implanted electrodes into in a region of the
brain called the nucleus accumbens. The electrodes were connected to a switch. If the rat pressed the
switch, it activated the electrode and thus stimulated this brain area. The rats indeed pressed, over and
over again, some at a rate of 2000 presses per hour, with no external reward or threat of punishment.
Pressing the switch was the reward, or at least the vehicle to what appeared to be the experience of
reward. Pressing the switch was addictive. These scientists had discovered a critical part of the circuitry
of pleasure, in rats! The rats discovered a pleasure switch, something they wanted to experience over and
over and over again.

Soon after this discovery, clinicians started using deep brain stimulation to treat individuals with
neurological complications, including Parkinson’s patients suffering from loss of motor control, patients
experiencing sustained pain, Tourette’s patients suffering from motor tics and obsessive-compulsive
problems, and even a patient in a coma who had lost, but then slowly recovered the capacity to name and
grasp objects. Similar to the rat work, the technique involves implanting an electrical pulse generator
within a targeted brain region. When the generator is turned on, it stimulates activity in previously
malfunctioning regions. But as with genetic manipulations and the unknown space that characterizes the
genomic universe, so too is the situation unchartered in the neuronal universe. Two patients suffering
from chronic pain were implanted with impulse generators and subsequently developed profound
addictions to the stimulation. In addition to relatively successful pain reduction, both patients experienced
an enhanced desire for sex, including erotic feelings. One of these patients self-stimulated so often that
she forgot to wash, change clothes, and adhere to family commitments. What happened? Did the
clinicians treating these patients hit the pleasure center? When stimulated, what actually changed in the
minds of these patients? Did they simply want more sexual arousal, suggesting that stimulation turned up
the gain on their desire for sex? Or, did stimulation change what they /ike, a shift in the sense of pleasure
that accompanies sex, and in this case, the anticipation of sex? Or perhaps it changed both wanting and
liking, especially since we often want things we like?

These observations of how humans and rats respond to brain stimulation show that particular

areas of the brain are linked to pleasure, especially the motivation to obtain rewarding experiences. These

Hauser Chapter 2. Runaway desire 57

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012803
