macroeconomics (“macro”) rests on micro, the convergence axioms say only what
economics has accepted implicitly since micro began. The “law of one price”,
meaning market equilibrium, actually begins a century and a half earlier with
Cantillon. But Jevons, in co-founding the marginalist revolution in 1871, effectively

made it an axiom.

I don’t want to seem to claim that the convergence axioms are safe because they are
accepted. Arguments ad majoritatem or ad auctoritatem prove nothing. But markets
do seem to form and hold, and the convergences seem implied. Authority and

majority are sometimes right.

Not all economists have agreed. There have been “historicists” and
“institutionalists” who mistrust the idea of convergent tastes, and prefer to see
idiosyncratic national tradition or power groups or mindsets as the prime movers in
place of uniform human nature. Heinrich Schmoller, a historicist who stressed
national differences, tangled with Carl Menger, an independent co-founder of the
marginalist revolution in 1871, in a childish feud for which Menger was at least as
much to blame. If you must answer your critics, be gracious. Thorstein Veblen, an
institutionalist from Wisconsin, coined the term “neoclassicism” for what we now
call marginalism. He made fun of it for missing the role of institutions in driving

economies for institutional or collective goals rather than individual human ones.

] think there’s something there. My main theme in this book is growth theory at the
collective scale. I argue that collective growth flourishes where laws and practices
and cultures nurture and protect it. These are national institutions. New ideas, by
definition, are opposite from the fungible commodities for which supply and
demand meet at price equilibria. Somehow they come. Dogs bark, cats climb, people
innovate. I’m with Menger and Jevons and the marginalists and human nature, but
with asterisks there too. There is plenty left for historicists and institutionalists to

help explain.

Chapter 3: Foundations 1/11/16 7

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010978
