and still maintain one’s home culture. This is important information for families who still fear the
outdated negatives on Third Culture Kids (TCK) based on studies from the fifties.

Maya Frost?! has excellent information about older kids and even a new paradigm when it comes to
going to university. I think education is one of the things going through a total transition due to the
Internet, and parents need this info to make important decisions.

We have had a fantastic experience in going to a local school in Spain that has allowed my child to
immerse very deeply in her second language, culture, and literature. More info (in the book) on local
schools is needed and how to experience it as a family for months at a time.

We have used local people like a wonderful flamenco teacher for our child and we have also used
online sources like our piano teacher in Chicago who teaches our child in Spain via Skype.

E-libraries are very important (especially with a child who is a _ voracious reader).
Http://learninfreedom.org/languagebooks.html is an excellent resource on language education with great
books on raising a bilingual child, even if you are a monolingual!

—SOULTRAVELERS3 , a family living abroad and loving it

FINANCIAL MUSING

I graduated from Stanford University and started working in investment banking in July 2006, and, in
a sick way, almost enjoyed it at first. Yes, it was a terrible lifestyle and all, but I was learning a lot and
moving up very quickly. I have (had) a type-A personality, so it appealed to me on some level.

As the year progressed, though, I realized it wasn’t sustainable and that I wanted out... but like so
many other people, I failed to take action immediately.

In May 2007, I was driving home at 3 A.M. one night after having pulled 4—5 all-nighters previously,
and crashed into a tree on the side of the road. If you’ve never crashed into an inanimate object while
asleep at the wheel, just imagine waking up five feet from the ground while bungee jumping as the cord
is about to snap to get an idea of what it feels like.

“At the ER”

That was the subject line of the e-mail I sent out the next day to my entire office. Luckily, everyone
understood and told me to take a rare three-day weekend. Luckily I survived with no major injuries, but
at that point I decided it was time for a change.

I met up with some friends for dinner a week or two later and relayed my story. One friend there (who
recently quit her job to pursue professional acting—her dream—while selling information products
online) told me about this book she recently read called The 4-Hour Workweek.

I thought it was a scam, of course, but I really hated my life and decided I needed to check it out at the
very least. I read it in one sitting. And then I read it again, just to make sure I wasn’t hallucinating.
Before ever getting into finance, I had done some work online with graphics and web design and I had a
technical background, so nothing in the book seemed outrageous to me—I just didn’t realize how easy
and accessible it all was. Also, I had lived in Japan for half a year in college and loved it—and long-term
world travel had always been one of my goals.

I sat on the ideas in your book for a while, took a quick vacation to return to Japan in October 2007,
and when I came back decided that I had to get started. My muse: sell an investment banking interview
guide. It’s a niche, high-demand subject and I knew I could make a better guide than anything else out
there. One problem: I had to stay anonymous since I was still working, and advertising with Pay-Per-
Click would be way too expensive given the high CPCs for related keywords.

In November 2007 I decided to start a blog, Mergers & Inquisitions
(http://www.mergersandinquisitions.com), about the investment banking industry and how to break in,
aimed at a mix of college students, MBAs, and working professionals. While I built my audience, I

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014024
