3

America. We have a group in this country that likes to will outcomes,
and their track record demonstrates that that doesn’t work so well
(unless you think, apropos Iraq, that eight years and more than
100,000 lives later defines “well’). Obama has been more in the mold
of George H.W. Bush and his secretary of state, Jim Baker, when the
Eastern bloc was throwing off Moscow’s shackles. Offer
encouragement and stability, give a few speeches about freedom, but
otherwise let them do their own work. Obama took a lot of stick for
not being more forceful on Egypt in February, but he was right to be
cautious—there were lots of stakeholders involved, and sorry, but the
president of the United States just can’t say every sweet thing
romantics would like him to say. He then, as noted, took heat for
moving too slowly on Libya, but here again he was correct. The
nature of the Libyan regime is not a direct national-security issue, so
there absolutely had to be a specific trigger to justify acting. That
trigger was Gaddafi’s threatened assault on Benghazi. That was
completely the right thing to do. It was as textbook a fulfillment of
“R2P,” or “responsibility to protect,” as one could imagine. The
subsequent bombing campaign took longer than advertised, but it has
apparently done the job, quickly and with far smaller loss of life
(including zero U.S. deaths) than if we’d followed John McCain and
Lindsey Graham’s advice and gone in with ground troops. One of the
best things an American administration can do when big changes are
afoot somewhere in the world is stay out of the way and not act as if
we can will an outcome just because we’re America. Next comes
Syria. Conservatives are pushing Obama to take stronger steps.
Maybe he should. I argued back in the spring, before Obama imposed
sanctions on Assad, that he needed to be more forceful. But now he
has imposed those sanctions and said Assad should step down. Doing
much more seems dubious. Bashar al-Assad will go. It’s a matter of
when. Better to let it play out. If a true R2P situation arises, then

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031915
