dynamics between them can now be implemented if the system of particles being
simulated is sufficiently small and the computer simulation is for very short times.

To transform the entropy into something more statistical and global, we
return to the theoretical work of Ludwig Boltzmann whose formalism was used
previously to quantitate pathological developmental simplification. He assumed that
given a set of constraints, say the closed volume, V, of a box, B, of a fixed size, V
(B), the orbit of each particle would eventually explore all the space in the box that
was available to it. Boltzmann’s entropy became a constraint dependent, n-
dimensional volume measure, with the assumption that the entropy, S, equals the
logarithm of this volume measure, S = /n V (B). To calculate a value for the entropy,
compute the volume of the molecular motion as determined by the invariant
constraints of the system, such as the volume, temperature, pressure and/or its total
number of molecules. We may partition, discretize, the volume up to some limit of
resolution such that it is divided into © small boxes, each containing the
representation of a particular state.

Making the same assumptions of closed system, equilibrium
thermodynamics, such a system is completely isolated from outside sources of
matter and energy, it spends equal time in each of its © available states. In such a
case, the characteristic occupancy time of any state is inverse to the number of
States available, e.g. 1/0, and the system’s entropy is maximal for that set of states.
Under these conditions, S = k In(Q), where the k term is the Boltzmann constant
that contributes to the numeric units of entropy, as above, in Joules of heat /degrees
Kelvin of the temperature. If the system is in contact with a heat bath, but cannot
exchange matter with its environment, it is called diathermally isolated. The
distribution of times spent in the available states of a classical diathermally isolated
system of gas molecules can be represented by what is called a Boltzmann
distribution of probabilities of state occupancies, p (as a function of their energy
level, more measurably, their responsiveness, susceptibility, to heat). Here the
characteristic time of the system spent in each state varies as the particular state’s

probability.

75

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013575
