Raider of the Inner Sanctum | 75

To guard against this, the NSA has developed a well-organized
system for stratifying its data so that obtaining critical secrets
required a rogue employee to burrow into its heavily protected inner
sanctum. As part of this system, the NSA divides its data into differ-
ent tiers depending on the importance of the secrets to its operations.
The first tier, Level 1, is mainly administrative material. This data
would include FISA court orders and other directives its employees
might need to check on to carry out their tasks. Level 2 contains
data from which the secret sources have been removed. This tier,
available to other intelligence services and policy makers, includes
reports and analysis that can be shared. Level 3 contains documents
that cannot be shared outside a small group of authorized individu-
als, because they disclose the secret sources through which the NSA
surreptitiously obtained the information. This third tier includes,
for example, compiled lists of sources in China, Russia, Iran, and
other adversary countries. It also discloses the exotic methods the
NSA uses to get some of this data. Level 3 documents also include
reports on specific NSA, CIA, and Pentagon operations unknown to

© adversaries. These Level 3 documents are described by NSA execu- ®
tives as “the Keys to the Kingdom,” because they could invalidate
America’s entire intelligence enterprise if they fell into the hands of
an adversary. And, as far as is known, prior to 2013, there had been
no successful theft of any Level 3 documents.

Because of their extreme sensitivity, Level 3 documents were not
handled by most of the private firms providing independent contrac-
tors. At Dell, Snowden had access mainly to Level 1 and Level 2 data
(which he could, and did, download from shared sites on NSANet).
These lower-level documents had whistle-blowing potential because
they concerned NSA operations in the United States. They did not
reveal, however, sources that the NSA used in intercepting the mili-
tary and civilian activities of foreign adversaries.

Snowden quit his job at Dell as a system administrator on
March 15, 2013, to take another job working for the NSA in Hawaii
at Booz Allen Hamilton. Unlike other outside contractors that ser-
viced the NSA, the firm he now chose specialized in handling the
NSA’s Level 3 data.

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 75 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019563
