Page 9 of 31
104 J. Crim. L. & Criminology 59, *71

a sound basis for interpretation. *4 But the CVR4's plain language makes clear that Congress intended for the law to provide at
least some rights to crime victims throughout the criminal justice process, even before the filing of criminal charges.

According to its text, the CVRA provides eight specifically enumerated rights for crime victims and an additional right to be
reasonably notified of these rights. > Some of these rights presuppose the formal filing of criminal charges. For instance, the
CVRA extends to victims the right to reasonable, accurate, and timely notice of any public court proceeding. > That
particular right obviously does not apply before charges are filed, as no court proceedings exist before a defendant is charged.

But the CVRA also promises crime victims rights that are not specifically tied to court proceedings. Perhaps most expansively,
the CVRA guarantees victims the right to be treated with fairness and with [*72] respect for the victim's dignity and privacy,
57 a broad right that does not appear to be directly linked to a filed court case. Similarly, the CVRA promises victims the
reasonable right to confer with the attorney for the Government in the case. >* In this section, the CVRA's drafters appear to
have eschewed a reference to court proceedings, using a broader term instead. Of course, a case can refer both to a judicial
case before a court and an investigative case pursued by a law enforcement officer. It is common usage to say such things as,
The police officer investigated and solved the case. Dictionary definitions of the word case support this varied
interpretation. *?

If there remained any doubts about whether the CVRA applies during the investigative part of the criminal justice process, two
other provisions in the CVRA resolve them. The CVRA specifically directs that officers and employees of the Department of
Justice and other departments and agencies of the United States engaged in the detection, investigation, or prosecution of crime
shall make their best efforts to see that crime victims are notified of, and accorded, the rights described in [the CVRA]. © Of
course, there would be no reason to direct that agencies involved in the detection and investigation of crime have CVRA
obligations if the Act did not extend to pre-charging situations. Congress thus directly envisioned the victims’ rights law to
apply during the detection and investigation phases of criminal cases.

Similarly, the CVRA's venue provision instructs that crime victims who seek to assert rights in pre-charging situations should
proceed in the court where the crime was committed: The rights described in subsection (a) [of the CVRA] shall be asserted in
the district court in which a defendant is being prosecuted for the crime or, if no prosecution is underway, in the district court in
the district in which the crime occurred. ©! Here again, it is hard to see why this provision would be necessary unless the
CVRA applies before the formal filing of charges.

For all these reasons, the CVRA's plain language imdicates that the victims have protected rights under the Act even before
charges are filed.

[*73]

C. COURTS RECOGNIZE THAT CRIME VICTIMS HAVE CVRA RIGHTS BEFORE CHARGING

4 See Antonin Scalia & Bryan A. Garner, Reading Law: The Interpretation of Legal Texts 56 (2012).

% 18 U.S.C. § 3771(a) (2012) (enumerating eight rights); id. § 3771(c)(1) (requiring government officers use their best efforts to notify
victims of their rights).

%© Td. § 3771 (a)(2).

7 Td. § 3771 (a)(8).

58 Id. § 3771(a)(5) (emphasis added).

9 See, e.g., Black's Law Dictionary 243-44 (9th ed. 2009) (defining, among the definitions of case, a test case as [a] criminal
investigation as in the Manson case); Webster's Third New International Dictionary of the English Language Unabridged 345 (1993)
(defining case as a circumstance or situation (as a crime) requiring investigation or action by the police or other agency).

60 18 U.S.C. § 3771(c)C1) (emphasis added).
6l Td. § 3771(d)(3) (emphasis added).

DAVID SCHOEN

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017612
