200

phone number in a used car ad Except for putting money into a dead drop, the KGB played only a
passive role in the espionage. “Could Hanssen really be called a mole?” I asked.

“A mole is a term used in spy fiction,” he said. “We prefer to the more general term ‘espionage
source.”

“So anyone who delivers state secrets to the KGB, for whatever reason, is an espionage
source?” I asked.

“Certainly, if the information is valuable to us,” Cherkashin answered. “Hanssen delivered
secrets exposing American human and electronic operations against Russia. He was our most
valuable espionage source. It is the delivery of secrets, not the methods used, that counts.”

“Tf some unknown person simply delivered a trove of top-secret communications secrets to the
doorstep of Russia would they it be accepted?” I asked with Snowden in mind.

“T can’t say what the SVR would do today. I am long retired” he said, with a nostalgic shake
of his head. “But in my day, we needed some reason to believe to believe the gift was genuine.”

“Would you need to vet the person delivering it?”

“With Hanssen we did not have that opportunity,” he said. “If we believed the documents were
genuine, we would of course grab them.”

The final recruitment I asked Cherkashin about was that of Ronald Pelton, the civilian
employee of the NSA who had retired in 1979. Pelton had left the NSA without taking any
classified documents with him. After retiring, he had financial difficulties, and he sought to get
money from the KGB. On January 14, 1980, he walked into the Soviet embassy in Washington
DC and asked to see an intelligence officer. After he was ushered into secure debriefing room, he
said that he had information that Russia would find interesting, but he wanted money in return.
What interested me about the Pelton case was that Cherkashin proceeded to recruit Pelton even
though he was no longer working at the NSA, and Pelton no longer had access to the NSA. In
addition, since the FBI had 24 hour surveillance on the embassy, Pelton had almost certainly been
photographed entering it and also possibly had been recorded asking for an intelligence officer by
electronic bugs that the KGB suspected that NSA had planted in the embassy. What did the KGB
do in a situation in which ex-civilian employee at the NSA possessed no documents?

Despite the risks involved, Cherkashin decided Pelton had to be debriefed by communications
intelligence specialists. So he had him disguised as a utility worker and smuggled out in a van to
the residential compound of the Ambassador in Georgetown. A few days later, he was dropped
off at a shopping mall, “Why did you go to such effort if Pelton had neither documents nor access
to the NSA?” I asked.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020352
