consumed bread, that is, every member of society, would from the same
outlay have somewhat larger returns. The whole series of instruments
owned by the society would be somewhat more productive, and would be
carried to an order of quicker returns.”

The clearest expression, and probably clearest even today, came from Mill in 1848.
He put it that output growth can precede and explain capital growth as well as the

reverse. Crediting Rae, he wrote:

There are other cases in which the term saving, with the associations usually
belonging to it, does not exactly fit the operation by which capital is
increased. If it were said, for instance, that the only way to accelerate the
increase of capital is by increase of saving, the idea would probably be
suggested of greater abstinence, and increased privation. But itis obvious
that whatever increases the productive power of labor creates an additional
fund to make savings from, and enables capital to be enlarged not only
without additional privation, but concurrently with an increase of personal
consumption. Nevertheless, there is here an increase of saving, in the
scientific sense. Though there is more consumed, there is also more spared.
There is a greater excess of production over consumption. It is consistent
with correctness to call this a greater saving. Though the term is not
unobjectionable, there is no other which is not liable to as great objections.
To consume less than is produced, is saving; and that is the process by which
capital is increased; not necessarily by consuming less, absolutely. We must
not allow ourselves to be so much the slaves of words, as to be unable to use
the word saving in this sense, without being in danger of forgetting that to
increase capital there is another way besides consuming less, namely, to
produce more.

The words “accelerate” and “concurrently” show that Mill understood calculus. His
autobiography says that he hadn’t really learned it from his father James, who had
bought a book and was trying to teach himself and the 13-year old son at the same
time. The son studied it in his later teens at school in France. He like me was writing
for everyone, and preferred to keep explicit math off the page. But the quote
reminds us that the only alternative in economics is implicit math in sentence form.
The paragraph implies the Y = C + I equation: output equals consumption plus
investment. I go a tad farther, starting one chapter ago, by offsetting my word

equations from the running text. These show equal signs and plus and minus and

Chapter 4 Mill’s Idea 1/11/16 2

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010993
