Kittens & Gorillas 157

and numbers had not yet been properly invented. Euclid used distances
rather than numbers for all his proofs but I will use the word ‘number’ in
this explanation.

First a little revision. A prime number is a number that can only
be divided by itself and one, for example three, five, seven, and eleven.
All numbers can be split into primes using a couple of tricks. First, all
numbers are divisible by a set of primes. Ten is five times two — two
primes. We are also fairly sure we can form any number by adding two
primes together. This is Goldbach’s Conjecture, set as a question in a
letter written to Euler in 1742. It is still unproven!

Euclid proved there are an infinite number of primes by using
reductio ad absurdum. Imagine we have a complete list of prime numbers
— James’ list of primes. It contains every prime number. (This is the setup.
We are proposing something we suspect is incorrect and will lead to a
paradox or contradiction. When it does, we will have proven the opposite
fact. The proof relies on the fact that a number can either be prime or not
prime. There is no middle ground.)

Let’s make a new number by multiplying all the numbers on my list
together and adding one. There are two possibilities: this new number is
either prime or not prime.

If the number is prime, it is a new prime number that was not on
my list and I have disproved the theory.

If it is not prime then it must be divisible by two prime numbers
already on my list. However, neither of these numbers could have been
on my list, because dividing by one of them would give me a remainder
of one. Remember I multiplied all prime numbers together and added
one. It must, therefore, be a new prime number, which had previously
not been on my list. Once again, I disprove the theory.

Since both routes fail, James’ list of prime numbers is not complete
and, therefore, prime numbers are infinite.

Feynman's Proof

My favorite piece of logic is Richard Feynman's disproof of the existence
of polywater. It’s a strange logical proof bordering on philosophy, but it
shows just how far you can take logic.

In 1969, an urban legend spread around the world that there was a
substance called polywater. It even made it into an episode of Star Trek.
Polywater was believed to be a lower energy state of water, more viscous
than ordinary water. If this substance did exist, it would be possible
to mine the oceans of the world converting water to polywater and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015847
