pendulum or the pressure of the floor on a weight resting upon it. Faith in this realm
came from exercises in physical object visualization followed by manipulation of
self-consistent algebraic symbols. | learned about experiments attesting to the
“reality” of these ghostly fields (that now include electric, magnetic and strong and
weak nuclear forces), and yet it was the physicists that already believed them who
designed the machines to demonstrate them. It was Gregory Bateson, Margaret
Mead’s houseboy, lover, photographer and social anthropologist who said, “Newton
didn’t discover gravity, he invented it.”

One college summer | found a second Isaac Newton, perhaps not so
estranged from the first. He appeared in the form of a marble bust in the chapel of
Trinity College at Cambridge University, holding the prism he had used to explore
the polychromatic properties of light like a talisman. In his essay called Newton, the
Man, the early 20 Century Cambridge Don and economic theorist, John Maynard
Keynes, said that the Newton of the chapel followed “...certain mystic clues which
God had laid about the world to allow a sort of philosopher’s treasure hunt to the
esoteric brotherhood.” Michael White’s biography, called Newton the Last Sorcerer,
described his work as an attempt to integrate the magic of the Old World with the
science of the New Age. Newton’s awe over what he saw as the wonders of the
universe maintained him in private theological study throughout his life. Arthur
Waite’s Alchemists Through the Ages describes how Newton’s alchemical
orientation toward the earth’s fundamental substances such as fire, air, wind and
water, their powers and potential for transformation, was joined imperceptibly with
his metaphysics and physics. In his hands, experimental observations involving
gravitation, celestial mechanics and optics, though motivated by esoteric alchemical
theories, generated experimentally accessible phenomena and testable ideas.

The French mathematician, Jacque Hadamard, in his The Psychology of
Invention in the Mathematical Field, said that mystical preoccupations were never
far from the minds of most of the English and European mathematicians and
physicists of the 18 and 19 Centuries. This orientation served as an impetus for
them to pay attention to the almost imperceptible whispers of their emergent

thoughts. E.T. Bell, the historian of mathematics and mathematicians said even

12

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013512
