4.5 Globalist versus Localist Representations 89

LIDA CogPrime

Declarative memory Atomspace

attentional codelets Schema that adjust importance of Atoms explicitly
coalitions maps

global workspace attentional focus

behavior codelets schema

procedural memory (scheme net)|procedures in ProcedureRepository; and network of
SchemaNodes in the Atomspace

action selection (behavior net) propagation of STICurrency from goals to actions, and
action selection process

ransient episodic memory perceptual atoms entering AT with high STI, which

rapidly decreases in most cases

ocal workspaces bubbles of interlinked Atoms with moderate impor-

ance, focused on by a subset of MindAgents (defined
in Chapter 19 of Part 2) for a period of time

perceptual associative memory |HebbianLinks in the AT

sensory memory spaceserver /timeserver, plus auxiliary stores for other
senses

sensorimotor memory Atoms storing record of actions taken, linked in with

Atoms indexed in sensory memory

Table 4.1: CogPrime Analogues of Key LIDA Features

Each demand is assumed to come with a certain “target level” or “target range” (and these
may fluctuate over time, or may change as a system matures and develops). An Urge is said to
develop when a demand deviates from its target range: the urge then seeks to return the demand
to its target range. For instance, in an animal-like agent the demand related to food is more
clearly described as “fullness,” and there is a target range indicating that the agent is neither too
hungry nor too full of food. If the agent’s fullness deviates from this range, an Urge to return
the demand to its target range arises. Similarly, if an agent’s novelty deviates from its target
range, this means the agent’s life has gotten either too boring or too disconcertingly weird, and
the agent gets an Urge for either more interesting activities (in the case of below-range novelty)
or more familiar ones (in the case of above-range novelty).

There is also a primitive notion of Pleasure (and its opposite, displeasure), which is consid-
ered as different from the complex emotion of “happiness.” Pleasure is understood as associated
with Urges: pleasure occurs when an Urge is (at least partially) satisfied, whereas displeasure
occurs when an urge gets increasingly severe. The degree to which an Urge is satisfied is not
necessarily defined instantaneously; it may be defined, for instance, as a time-decaying weighted
average of the proximity of the demand to its target range over the recent past.

So, for instance if an agent is bored and gets a lot of novel stimulation, then it experiences
some pleasure. If it’s bored and then the monotony of its stimulation gets even more extreme,
then it experiences some displeasure.

Note that, according to this relatively simplistic approach, any decrease in the amount of
dissatisfaction causes some pleasure; whereas if everything always continues within its accept-
able range, there isn’t any pleasure. This may seem a little counterintuitive, but it’s important
to understand that these simple definitions of “pleasure” and “displeasure” are not intended to
fully capture the natural language concepts associated with those words. The natural language
terms are used here simply as heuristics to convey the general character of the processes in-

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013005
