Anxiety, Follow the Yellow Brick Road) and in medicine (6
books on healthcare and creator and chairman of TEDMED,

1995-2010), and as a conference convener. The path of this
journey has been paved by one surface: his curiosity.

The acknowledged father of Information
Architecture, Wurman has written, designed and published 83
books on a range of topics, while creating conferences and new
mapping projects. All contribute to a greater understanding of
complex information. They spring from his particular brand
of innovation: doing the opposite of what is rote or expected.

Wurman published his first two books in 1962. The
first featured models of 50 world cities all constructed ona
uniform scale, the other was the first book to be written on
Louis Kahn. In 1967 he co-authored the first comparative
statistical atlas of major American cities. His latest book is

called 33: Understanding Change ¢ the Change in Understanding.

It chronicles the adventures and musings of the eccentric main
character, the Commissioner of Curiosity and Imagination.
Wurman created the ACCESS city guides, using
graphics and logical editorial organization to make places such
as New York, Tokyo, Rome, Paris and London understandable
to visitors. Other volumes he created focus on topics such as
baseball, football and the 1984 Olympics, the latter with over
with 3.2 million copies sold. His road atlases employed similar
techniques that elucidate U.S. geography and transportation

networks. In addition he completed many one-off projects,
such as his book Twin Peaks Access, which he co-authored
with David Lynch. Several of his books are in the permanent
collection of the Museum of Modern Art, New York.

Wurman began his career in conferences in 1972
when he chaired the International Design Conference
in Aspen. He then co-chaired the first Federal Design
Assembly in 1973 and the national AIA Conference in 1976.
With each of these he changed the fundamentals of how
gatherings were run. All these helped his creative molding
of TED, TEDMED, and eg, the Entertainment Gathering.

Wurman created the TED conference in1984,
which he chaired through the 2002 meeting. TED brings
together many of America’s clearest thinkers in the fields
of technology, entertainment and design. He created the
eg conference in 2006 and the TEDMED conference in
1995, which he chaired through 2010. Other conferences
he created and chaired include California 101, TEDSELL,
TEDNYC, TED4Kobe in Japan and TEDCity in Toronto.

Now in 77, Wurman continues to quell his restlessness
with a series of new projects. The WWW Conference will be an
active gathering of some of the brightest thinkers of our time
discussing the complexity of emerging patterns on our planet
in improvised conversation — intellectual jazz. In partnership
with Esri and @radical.media, 19.20.21. is a major cartographic

initiative that endeavors to standardize a methodology for

comparative urban data. His Urban Observatory project aims

to establish, for the first time ever, a series of live and changing

electronically connected urban observatories around the world.
Wurman received both his B.Arch. and M.Arch.

degrees with highest honors from the University of

Pennsylvania in 1959. While there, he was awarded the

Arthur Spayd Brooks Gold Medal, the Thornton Oakley

Award for Achievement in Creative Art, 2 Chandler grants

and two graduate fellowships. He has also been awarded a

Guggenheim Fellowship in Architecture and Design, three

honorary doctorates, two Graham Fellowships and numerous

grants from the National Endowment for the Arts. He is the

2012 Lifetime Achievement Award recipient given by The

Smithsonian Cooper-Hewitt National Design museum. He was

recently given the Gold Medal for Outstanding Contribution to

Public Discourse by Trinity College Dublin, an honor shared in

the past by Archbishop Desmond Tutu and Aung San Suu Kyi.
Wurman currently lives in Newport, RI

with his wife, novelist Gloria Nagy, and their three

yellow Labradors, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. They

have four children and six grandchildren.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017570
