194

CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE
Vanishing Act
“They talk about Russia like it’s the worst place on earth. Russia’s great.”—Snowden Moscow, 2015

My night flight from New York to Moscow took less than eight hours. It landed at 7:40 AM on
October 29, 2015 at terminal D a Sheremetyevo International Airport. I did not immediately
proceed through passport control, not just because I wanted to avoid the killer bumper-to-bumper
rush hour traffic, but because I wanted to explore the transit zone in which Snowden was
supposedly trapped in for six weeks.

Sheremetyevo Two, where all international flights land, was built in the waning days of the Cold
War for international passengers arriving for the Moscow 1980 Summer Olympics. It was
modernized in 2010, including opening a walkway that connects Terminal D, E and F for transit
passengers.

Snowden had vanished, at least from public view, in this complex of terminals for nearly six
weeks in the summer of 2013. His explanation, as will be recalled, was two-part. First, he had
planned to board the next fight to Cuba, and from there proceed to Ecuador. But he was unable
to board this flight because his passport had been invalidated while he was flying to Russia by the
U.S. Government. Second, after discovering his passport had been revoked, he stayed in a
capsule hotel in the transit zone for the next 38 days.

To better understand the plausibility of his version of those events, I proceeded through the
transit passage to Terminal F where Snowden’s plane from Hong Kong had landed at 5:15 PM
Moscow time on June 23, 2013.

Snowden did not o through passport control on June 23rd. Before any of the other passengers
were allowed to disembark from the plane, Russian plainclothes officers from the Special
Services boarded the plane and asked both Snowden and Sarah Harrison, his Wiki leak’s supplied
“ninja,” to accompany them to a waiting car that whisked them away. Assange and Harrison had
organized a number of decoy flights. They may have confused U.S and British intelligence
services, as they were intended to do, but they evidently did not fool the Russian intelligence
services. According to the account in /zvestia, “a special operation was conducted for his
reception and evacuation.” It further said: “Snowden flight to Moscow was coordinated with the
Russian authorities and intelligence services.” What was less clear is whether Snowden had
voluntarily participated in this “special operation” that effectively took him into custody.
Wherever Snowden and Harrison were next taken-- the “transit zone” extends beyond the airport
to medical and other facilities— he was not brought to Terminal E, where the next Aeroflot flight
to Cuba departed at 1:40 PM on June 24 2013.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020346
