—,
'

KIRKLAND & ELLIS

Honorable Alice S. Fisher
November 28, 2007
Page 2

manner in which the USAO has interpreted the settlement process for these identified individuals
under the Agreement requires guidance. These areas are more fully detailed below.*

First. Federal criminal investigators and prosecutors should not be in the business
of promoting civil lawsuits as a condition precedent to entering non-prosecution or deferred.
prosecution agreements. This is especially true where the vehicle for the financial settlement
under the Agreement requires payment in a lump sum without requiring proof of actual injury or
loss — federal authorities should therefore be particularly sensitive to avoid causing a prejudiced
and unfair result. 18 U.S.C. § 2255 is a civil statute implanted in the criminal code; in contrast to
all other criminal restitution statutes, § 2255 fails to correlate payments to specific injuries or
losses. Instead, the statute presumes that victims have sustained damages of at least a minimum
lump sum without regard to whether the complainants suffered actual medical, psychological or
other forms of individualized harm. We presume that it is for this reason that 18 U.S.C. § 2255
has never before been employed in this manner in connection with a non-prosecution or, as here,
a deferred prosecution agreement. In short, the USAO is operating in uncharted territory.

Second, 18 U.S.C. § 2255 creates the potential for compromising witness
testimony. Although generally the Government may promise or provide traditional consideration
to potential witnesses, employing a civil statute that promises a lump sumi payment to potential
Witnesses without proof of actual liability or damage provides an extraordinary incentive that is
incompatible with the truth-seeking functions of the criminal justice system. Guidelines or other
policy directives should be considered to control the extent to which witnesses are informed by -
investigators about the availability of such financial windfalls. Additionally, an inquiry is
necessary in this specific case to assure that disclosures to potential witnesses did not undermine
the reliability of the results of the federal criminal investigation of Mr. Epstein.

Third. The USAO has provided no information as to the specific claims made by
each identified individual, nor were we provided the names or ages of those individuals or the
time-frame of the alleged conduct. The USAO’s reluctance to provide Mr. Epstein with any
information with respect to the allegations against him leaves wide open the opportunity for
misconduct by federal investigators. In addition, this information vacuum eliminates the ability
for Mr. Epstein and/or his agents to verify that the allegations at issue are grounded in real
evidence. Indeed, the requirement that a target of federal criminal prosecution agree to waive his
tight to contest liability as to unnamed civil complainants creates at minimum an appearance of
injustice, both because of the obvious Due Process concems of waiving rights without notice of

* In addition to the areas identified below, it was and remains our position that federal prosecution of this matter is
entirely inappropriate based on the prior application and legislative histories of the relevant federal statutes.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012657
