working-class environments and created what we really call a Pax Americana. It was
many, many years and decades of peace. And I believe we’ve come partly offtrack in the
years since the fall of the Soviet Union and we're starting now in the 21st century, which I
believe, strongly, is a crisis both of our church, a crisis of our faith, a crisis of the West, a

crisis of capitalism.

“T believe we’ve come partly offtrack in the
years since the fall of the Soviet Union and
we’re starting now in the 21st century, which I
believe, strongly, is a crisis both of our church,
a crisis of our faith, a crisis of the West, a crisis
of capitalism.”

And we're at the very beginning stages of a very brutal and bloody conflict, of which if the
people in this room, the people in the church, do not bind together and really form what I
feel is an aspect of the church militant, to really be able to not just stand with our beliefs,
but to fight for our beliefs against this new barbarity that’s starting, that will completely
eradicate everything that we’ve been bequeathed over the last 2,000, 2,500 years.

Now, what I mean by that specifically: I think that you’re seeing three kinds of converging
tendencies: One is a form of capitalism that is taken away from the underlying spiritual
and moral foundations of Christianity and, really, Judeo-Christian belief.

I see that every day. I’m a very practical, pragmatic capitalist. I was trained at Goldman
Sachs, I went to Harvard Business School, I was as hard-nosed a capitalist as you get. I
specialized in media, in investing in media companies, and it’s a very, very tough
environment. And you've had a fairly good track record. So I don’t want this to kinda
sound namby-pamby, “Let’s all hold hands and sing ‘Kumbaya’ around capitalism.”

But there’s a strand of capitalism today — two strands of it, that are very disturbing.

One is state-sponsored capitalism. And that’s the capitalism you see in China and Russia. I

believe it’s what Holy Father [Pope Francis] has seen for most of his life in places like

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029023
