other securities laws. In addition, certain provisions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, which permit
the resale, subject to various terms and conditions, of restricted securities affer they have been held for
one year, do not apply to the Units because the Company is not required to file and does not file, current
reports under the Exchange Act and does not, and does noi intend to, make comparable information
publicly available.

6.4.6 Purchasers of the Units are subject to Dilution

Although we have not prepared a consolidated balance sheet for KUE, prior to this offering and the
conversion of $180 million of KUE’s preferred limited partner units currently held by the Principals and
their affillates into Common LP Units at the per Common LP Unit issuance price, we expect that KUE
would have negative or nominally positive common equity book value due to its historical capital structure,
including its level of indebtedness. As a result, the book value per Unit acquired in this offering will be
substantially less after this offering than the purchase price paid by the Investors. The Investors’ interests
are also subject to future dilution if and to the extent the Company grants options, profits interest units or
similar rights to officers, directors or employees of the Company, and will also be affected by any awards
by the Company under the Long Term Incentive Plan and the Steck Appreciation Rights Plan described
under Management Incentive Plans and Employment Agreemenis.” Investors will have a Co-invest Right
to purchase a pro-rata portion of certain issuances of Units by the Company for cash; however, such right
is subject to customary exceptions. See “The Structure of KUE and the General Partner.”

6.4.7 KUE and the General Partner are not U.S. entities; disputes must be resolved by
binding arbitration in the United Kingdom

KUE will be a Cayman Islands exempted limited partnership. The General Partner is a Cayman Islands
exempted company. The internal governance cf KUE will be pursuant to the Limited Parinership
Agreement in compliance with applicable laws of the Cayman Islands. The internal governance of the
General Partner will be pursuant to the Memorandum and Articles of Association and the agreement
among members in compliance with applicable laws of the Cayman Islands. All dispufes under the
applicable agreements or related to this offering must be resolved through binding arbitration conducted
in the United Kingdom under the London Court of International Arbitration Rules. Such laws and Rules
may offer less or different protections to Investors than laws applicable to comparable U.S. entities or
laws of the investors’ home countries.

6.4.8 The Company will not be operated to optimize the investment, tax or other
objectives of any individual Investor

The Investors may have conflicting investment, tax and other interests with respect to their investments in
the Company. The conflicting interests of individual Investors may relate to or arise from, among other
things, the nature of investments made by the Company and the structuring or the acquisition of
investments. As a consequence, conflicts of interest may arise in connection with decisions made by the
General Partner, including with respect to the nature or structuring of investments, that may be more
beneficial for one Investor than for another Investor, especially with respect to Investors’ individual tax
situations. In selecting and structuring investments appropriate for the Company, the General Partner will
consider the investment and tax objectives of the Company as a whole, not the investment, tax or other
objectives of any individual Investor. Investors must seek their own investment, tax and other advice
concerning an investment in the Units.

6.4.9 The Investors may not separately transfer the constituent securities underlying
the Units

The Investors may not separately transfer Common LP Units or Class A Shares (unless otherwise
approved by the Board of Directors of the General Partner and the Independent Committee), and there
may be less Investor interest in a security such as the Units than there would be in more traditional

58

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024491
