Constitution ranks supreme. As Omar Ahmad , founder of CAIR, reputedly said, “Islam isn’t in Amer ica to be
equal to any other faith, but to become dominant. The Koran is the highest authority in America and Islam is
the only accepted religion on Earth.”” Who makes law- the people or Allah? While the Control Factor
constantly seeks for some accommodation between the two, this conflict CAN NOT be negotiated. Only one
can survive not because we have declared “war” but because our Islamic Enemy has. That is, perhaps, the
lesson we will most need to fully learn, one way or another. We will eventually hit a Turnaround Moment as a
nation and if enough of us are not truly prepared to fight and continue to be controlled by our delusions, we
will lose. If we truly seek to win, it is better to get there sooner while we have advantages than later.

FP: Bill Siegel, thank you for joining FrontPage Interview.
And thank you for writing this superb and most important book.

We encourage all o f our readers to get their hands on The Control Factor: Our Struggle to See the True Threat
and to read it!

Editor’s note: To watch The Glazov Gang‘s recent discussion about the Muslim Brotherhood’s
infiltration of the United States and the Obama administration, see this week’s episode below:

Freedom Center pamphlets now available on Kindle: Click here.

Filed Under: Daily Mailer, FrontPage Tagged With: Denial, Islam, muslim brotherhood, Obama, Siegel, The
Control Factor

22

= Print This Post
About Jamie Glazov

Jamie Glazov is Frontpage Magazine's editor. He holds a Ph.D. in History with a specialty in Russian, U.S. and
Canadian foreign policy. He is the author of the critically acclaimed and best-selling, United in Hate: The

Left’s Romance with Tyranny and Terror. His new book is High No on For America. He is the host of
Frontpage’s television show, The Glazov Gang, and he can be reached at jamieglazov1 1@gmail.com. Visit his

sit at JamieGlazov.com.

Login

Follow the discussion
Comments (6)

Sort by: Date Rating Last Activity
+3

ols

AdinaK 86p - J/ hours ago

The war being waged has two components - mental and physical. The mental side is a minefield of constructs,
deeply implanted within generations of Americans, and its PC chickens are coming home to roost. So much so,
millions of Americans (westerners) cannot break free of its shackles. But it is not as if these mental chains
magically appe ared. Far from it - http://adinakutnicki.com/2012/1 1/26/the-death-of-...

In addition, the fault-lines of democracy allowed for the most retrograde forces, on this planet, to infiltrate and
penetrate the body politic- http://adinakutnicki.com/2012/09/02/the-subversio...

IF the mental and physical constraints are not immediately removed, it is a given that western civilization will
fall. Cause and effect.
Adina Kutnicki, Israel - http://adinakutnicki.com/about/

Report

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024403
