Sector Strategy

Markets due a period of consolidation in the short term. The reflation trade has run
hard and we’ve taken some chips off the table in recent weeks by cutting our
overweight positions in Banks and Basic Resources to neutral and reducing the size of
our underweights in some Defensive sectors. In the short term we look for markets to
consolidate. Near term risk reward is also a little poorer in light of event risks around
the Italian referendum, OPEC’s decision on a potential cut in oil production quotas and
the ECB’s decision on QE extension.

Look for another leg to the reflation trade in the coming months. We would look for
another leg to the cyclical and reflation rotation in the next 1-2 quarters as evidence of
stronger global growth and rising inflation materializes. We will look to re-enter sector
positions that benefit from global rotation when short term risk reward improves.
However, we would look for the pace of the rotation to moderate and become less
binary from here. The upside from here for bond yields is more limited. With that in
mind we are likely to be more selective in reflation vs bond proxy positions.

Politics likely remains an overhang through 1H 2017. Another reason to run a less
binary portfolio over the coming months is the potential for political uncertainty to
weigh on European markets. Attention near-term will focus on Italy but the French
Presidential elections loom in April / May and the tail risk of a Marine Le Pen victory will
act as an overhang for Europe in the coming months. It suggests 22017 may well be a
year similar to 2016, in which the major indices in Europe have traded in ranges for
large parts of the year.

Value in some Defensive bond proxies. Valuation looks quite compelling already in
some of the bond proxy sectors. Utilities and Healthcare are both trading at the low end
of relative valuation ranges and have decent fundamentals in the view of our analyst
team. However, rising government bond yields remains the major potential headwind in
coming months. We are overweight both sectors.

Financials — neutral following the strong recent rally. Banks have re-rated
aggressively, taking PE-relative back to average levels. However, the sector continues to
have uncertain prospects for EPS recovery given continued ultra-low policy rates in
Europe and ongoing tail risks from periphery are an overhang on the sector. Continued
long only positioning remains a potential support for the sector should rates and yield
curves renew their widening moves. A Risk reward may be better in Insurance — the
sector still offers the second highest DY in the market (and relative DY is still at 90
percentile of the range since 2004).

Global quality Cyclicals — waiting for an entry point. Many cyclicals have performed
less strongly in the recent rally than Resources and re-rated less aggressively than
Financials. With relative PE valuations in-line with or below 17-year averages for the
likes of Industrials, Chemicals and Technology we will look for opportunities to build
positions in cyclical areas in the coming months. Overowned positioning has been
something of a negative for several of these areas (notably Tech) and any signs of a
correction could be a catalyst to re-enter an overweight in the sector.

Media — raise to overweight. With the outlook for markets set to become less binary
we will look to add exposure to quality cyclical areas. One such sector that has lagged
this year is Media, making this an interesting entry point. The sector is something of
hybrid combining defensive and cyclical components and high and low quality. Media in
particular has come back a long way following a six-month period of sustained
underperformance.

Overweight Oil position dependent on OPEC. As we go to press, the OPEC decision
on a deal to cut oil supplies is pending. Our commodity strategists’ base case has been
for some kind of deal, with upside into the mid $50s for a deal to cut 1 million barrels
per day. However, in the case OPEC fails to agree any deal they see WTI dipping back

; Bankof America
20 European Equity Strategy | 01 December 2016 Merrill Lynch

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014479
