Does this really surprise anyone?

70.
Valchrist1313

March 29, 2014 at 12:47 am — Log in to Reply

The girls listed here (well not here, in an article longer than a twitter post) are of age in every European country,
and Canada. Just like age of drinking, you guys are the anomaly with a higher degree of repression in all social
areas.

The reason for that is the crazy -ass, hate spewing, xenophobic, ignorant political bandwagons and scape-
goating your society is rife with. Right now you’re trying to figure out how you can blame this on Obama aren’t
you? Yeah I know. Obama. His fault. Somehow. (Actually several posts already are)

That said, yeah he’s stupid. He should follow the laws of his own country. If that’s your laws he should be
following them.

However, nobody here has the slightest friggen idea if any of this is the least bit true, but you’re already
forming the lynch mobs.

It’s not because you’re really upset about the issue at hand. It’s hatred of your fat and miserable existence, your
subscription and indoctrination in to disgusting and brutal pseudo-religious political beliefs, and your lazy
inability to fact check a thing for yourself when you find it so much easier to ride on a bandwagon.

Search “consistency theory”, if you can handle all the big words and ideas, and you’ll figure out why you are
unable to learn and grow as people.

I swear most of you can’t create or express an idea without it being ascribed to a political view.

eee

°

Oldveteran
March 29, 2014 at 4:55 pm — Log in to Reply

Huh? Wha? I’m figuring you’re not an American citizen. You “bunched” up all into a group that you describe
with some wonderful words. Maybe YOU know the WHOLE TRUTH, there are plenty who recall how a newly
elected President had to give MONEY to a couple of women who had been “assaulted” by this scum bag. Check
the news papers....... no not twitter....... Maybe you don’t know about the “White Water” scandal or about
Vince Foster, who “shot” himself in the RIGHT side of his head; the man must have been so depressed he used
his “off? hand to pull the trigger. Maybe his left hand just shook too much. The “Monica” escapade was just a
man having a fling with a silly woman, makes no mind the woman was the same age as his daughter. HE LIED
UNDER OATH TO A FEDERAL JUDGE. He stood in front of the entire country and stated “he did not have
sex with that woman.” As for political view points....... isn’t that how governments are elected? I don’t know
what country you live in, but here we like to THINK before voting, OOPS! I mean generally; right now there
are too damn many NON thinking casting ballots. That’s how we got slick and now Obummer.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022648
