organizations as the National Association of State Boards of Education, the Horace Mann League, and
the National Association of Secondary School Principals. Mr. Milken earned his bachelor’s degree from
the University of California at Berkeley, and his law degree from the University of California, Los Angeles.

Other Executives

Ted Sanders, Viee Chairman

Ted Sanders is Vice Chairman of KUE, as well as the Executive Chairman of Cardean Learning Group,
which develops online post-secondary education and degree programs. Mr. Sanders previously served
as the President of the Education Commission of the States and as Deputy U.S. Secretary of Education
under President George H.W. Bush. He has been the Chief State School Officer in three U.S. states
(Nevada, Illinois and Ohio} and University President at Southern Illinois University. He serves as an
advisor to the School Evaluation Services Division of Standard and Poor’s, the PDK Gallup Poll,
MetaMetrics Inc., and the Government Accountability Office. He holds a doctor of education degree in
educational administration and higher education from the University of Nevada at Reno.

Stephen Goldsmith, Senior Vice President, Strategic Planning and Worldwide Government
Programs

Stephen Goldsmith is the Senior Vice President of Strategic Planning & Worldwide Government Programs
for KUE. Mr. Goldsmith is also a Milken Institute Senior Fellow and the Dan Paul Professor of
Government at Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Government, is a nationally recognized expert on
government management, reform and innovation. He is the author of several books, most recently,
Governing by Network: The New Face of the Public Sector, and his columns have frequently been
published in such papers as The Wall Street Journal and The New York Times. While serving two terms
as Mayor of Indianapolis, he earned a national reputation for innovations in government as he reduced
the city’s bureaucracy, taxes, and counter-preductive regulations, ail while identifying more than $400
miilion in savings, which he then reinvested in a transformation of downtown indianapolis and its urban
neighborhoods. His work in Indianapolis has been cited as a national model. Prior to his two terms as
Mayor, he was Marion County District Attorney for 12 years. Mr. Goldsmith formerly served as Special
Advisor to President Bush, and Chief Domestic Policy advisor to President Bush in the 2000 presidential
campaign.

Nina Shokraii Rees, Senior Vice President, Strategic Initiatives

Nina Rees is Senior Vice President of Strategic Initiatives for KUE, where she is responsible for furthering
the company’s goals of providing the highest-quality and most effective early childhood education and on
finding innovative ways to improve K-12 educational outcomes. Before jaining KUE, Ms. Rees had nearly
15 years of relevant experience in Washington, D.C., most recently as the Assistant Deputy Secretary for
Innovation and Improvement at the U.S. Department of Education. In this post, she oversaw the
administration of 28 grant programs and coordinated the implementation of several provisions of the No
Child Leff Behind Act. Prior to joining the Education Department, Ms. Rees served as a Domestic-Policy
Adviser to Vice President Dick Cheney, and was involved in the effort to enact No Child Left Behind. She
also served as the Senior Education Analyst at the Heritage Foundation. Ms. Rees spent two years on
the staff of Rep. Porter Goss, R-Florida., while earning her master’s degree in international transactions
from George Mason University, and received her bachelor's degree in psychology from Virginia
Polytechnic Institute and State University. Ms. Rees is fluent in French and Persian.

149

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024582
