Which was all somehow by way of praise for the new, soon-to-be-confirmed CIA
director, Mike Pompeo, who had attended West Point and who Trump had brought with
him to stand in the crowd—and who now found himself as bewildered as everyone else.

“You know when I was young. Of course I feel young—I feel like I was 30 ... 35 ...
39 ... . Somebody said, Are you young? I said, I think I’m young. I was stopping in the
final months of the campaign, four stops, five stops, seven stops—speeches, speeches in
front of twenty-five, thirty thousand people ... fifteen, nineteen thousand. I feel young—I
think we’re all so young. When I was young we were always winning things in this
country. We’d win with trade, we’d win with wars—at a certain age I remembering
hearing from one of my instructors, the United States has never lost a war. And then, after
that, it’s like we haven’t won anything. You know the old expression, to the victor belongs
the spoils? You remember I always say, keep the oil.”

“Who should keep the oil?” asked a bewildered CIA employee, leaning over to a
colleague in the back of the room.

“T wasn’t a fan of Iraq, I didn’t want to go into Iraq. But I will tell you when we were
in we got out wrong and I always said in addition to that keep the oil. Now I said it for
economic reasons, but if you think about it, Mike”’—he called out across the room,
addressing the soon-to-be director—“if we kept the oil we wouldn’t have ISIS because
that’s where they made their money in the first place, so that’s why we should have kept
the oil. But okay—maybe you’ll have another chance—but the fact is we should have kept
the oil.”

The president paused and smiled with evident satisfaction.

“The reason you are my first stop, as you know I have a running war with the media,
they are among the most dishonest human beings on earth, and they sort of made it sound
like I had a feud with the intelligence community and I just want to let you know the
reason you’re the number one stop is exactly the opposite, exactly, and they understand
that. I was explaining about the numbers. We did, we did a thing yesterday at the speech.
Did everybody like the speech? You had to like it. But we had a massive field of people.
You saw them. Packed. I get up this morning, I turn on one of the networks, and they show
an empty field and I say, Wait a minute, I made a speech. I looked out—the field was—it
looked like a million, million and half people. They showed a field where there were
practically nobody standing there. And they said Donald Trump did not draw well and I
said it was almost raining, the rain should have scared them away, but God looked down
and said we’re not going to let it rain on your speech and in fact when I first started I said,
Oooh no, first line I got hit by a couple of drops, and I said, Oh this is too bad, but we’ll
go right through it, the truth is it stopped immediately... .”

“No, it didn’t,” one of the staffers traveling with him said reflexively, then catching
herself and, with a worried look, glancing around to see if she had been overheard.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019921
