The human motivation for social
connection extends beyond the boundary
of the human in the (often
misunderstood) religious language of
anthropomorphism. In this chapter, an
infamous sermon from colonial
America—‘Sinners in the Hands of an
Angry God’—1s used to illustrate the
way anthropomorphic language works to
incorporate human society in a web of
ethical obligations that connect to the
natural environment and, by imaginative
extension, to the universe as a whole.

Personifications of God

12. How Does God Become Real
Becoming a person of faith is not so
much about acquiring certain beliefs
but about learning to use one’s mind
in particular ways; the often intensely
private experience of God is built
through a profoundly social learning
process.

Belief and Connection

13. Theological Perspectives on God as

an Invisible Force
The beliefs that religious individuals
hold about the way God operates in
human life are potential factors affecting
perceived social isolation. My paper
discusses a specific type of such belief
that is common in the history of
Christian thought: the belief that God 1s
an invisible force of a rather impersonal
sort working for the good in everything
that happens. The paper argues that this
sort of belief has as great or greater
potential than belief in God as a personal
friend to give one the sense that one is
never alone, but the conception of God
as pervasive can also lead to inattention
and disconnection.

The Elusiveness of Meaningful
Connection

14. Visible Efforts to Change Invisible
Connections

Despite the human need for social
connection, many individuals are lonely
because they are unable to create
meaningful social bonds. Interventions
designed to reduce loneliness have not
been successful, suggesting that a better
understanding of loneliness, social
connection, and the obstacles to forming
meaningful connections with others is
needed.

Reflections on Invisible Connections

15. Social Brain, Spiritual Medicine?

Science and religion are mextricably
intertwined in the practice of medicine.
Science has provided modern medicine
with extraordinary diagnostic and
therapeutic capacities that can be
employed to care for patients. Religions
provide a fuller vision for the worthiness
of caring for the sick, a framework to
guide the application of medical science
in that endeavor, and practices that
strengthen the human capacity for
treating patients as the mindful persons
they are.

Invisible Forces

16. Epilogue

Invisible forces that connect individuals
to society, or to each other, have effects
at both ends of the connection. As
humans we are fundamentally individual
and fundamentally social. We
encompass both the pursuit of rational
self interest of Homo economicus and the
pursuit of approval, belonging, and
intimacy of Homo socialis, the former
grounded in eros, the latter in agape.
These forces acting together represent a
signature feature of Homo sapiens (the
wise ones) and have contributed a record
of influence and impact— both positive
and negative —that is unmatched in
biology.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021250
