[TERSON

odone and hydrocodone. (A few
hich coincided with Chief Reit-
stein, the talk-show host settled

nit to random drug testing, and
had been accused of sexual

ron, a legal secretary who'd worked

sment lawsuit against him in the

That suit was dismissed, but a few

‘rischer to federal court, accusing
es and demanding recompense for
ivacy, and emotional distress.

nds, violently, inside her blouse,
mdled her breasts, forcibly kissed
while brushing her buttocks with

accompanying the gestures with

advances, the woman claimed,

ms. At the time, he was making his 3
office. The charges were politically _
of a local chapter of NOW —the 4
xen—had stood by the lawyer, cit —

violence, among his other virtues.

-y Krischer for the work his office
xe woman said during a rally that
arthouse. “Her murderer received |

sentence.”

o been dismissed —alter Krischers

164

Fittyy Ricu

former law firm agreed to pay Bergeron’s attorney seven thou-
sand dollars in legal fees.

Now Chief Reiter and Detective Recarey were beginning to have
their own questions about Barry Krischer. The Palm Beach PD
wanted to charge Epstein with one count of lewd and lascivious
behavior and four counts of unlawful sexual activity with a
minor—felony charges that would have amounted to years
behind bars in the case of a conviction. Wendy Dobbs and Sarah
Kellen would be charged as accomplices.

This was not the plan that Krischer seemed to have in mind
for Jeffrey Epstein.

In cases involving the sexual abuse of minors, prosecuting
attorneys tend to have suspects arrested, then push for a trial.
But instead of granting his approval for an arrest, Krischer told
the police that he would convene a grand jury, which would be
asked to consider a broad range of charges.

Ina case such as Epstein’s, this was highly unusual. Not damn-
ing in and of itself. But very strange. In Florida, grand juries are

| only required in capital cases. At the state attorney’s discretion, they

may also be called in controversial cases—for instance, cases

_ involving crimes committed by public officials. But Jeffrey Epstein
 wasn't a public official, and as far as the Palm Beach PD was con-
_ cerned, the only controversial thing about the case they'd built was
4 that Epstein was rich and well connected. In his deposition for
4 B.B. vs. Epstein, Chief Reiter rel ayed Krischer’s concerns: the pros-
ecutor had to make sure that his case was solid, beyond a reason-
able doubt. And Krischer did have his doubts about the credibility

of the young women who'd be called to. testify against Epstein.

165

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010506
