DA did not, then, also begin arresting strippers. And what about random vanilla couples
on a standard date-type thing, where the woman makes eyes at the man over dinner, and
the man pays for the meal? Sounds like sexual conduct for money” to me. Which could
totally be prostitution, folks, so watch your backs.

In his piece Is There Such A Thing As Kinky Sex?, Dr. Marty Klein says that:

If practicing kinky sex makes you other, not one of us, if it has non-sexual
implications, if it means you're defective or dangerous -- who wants that? And so as
kinky sex and its practitioners are demonized, everyone is concerned -- am I one of
those people? It makes people fear their fantasies or curiosity, which then acquire too
much power. It leads to secrecy between partners, as people withhold information about
their preferences or experiences.

... I'd like to destroy the idea of binary contrast -- that kinky and non-kinky sex are
clearly different. Instead, I suggest that kinky and vanilla sex are parts of a continuum,
the wide range of human eroticism. We all slide side to side along that continuum during
our lives, sometimes in a single week. We don't need to fear our fantasies, curiosity, or
(consensual) sexual preferences. They don't make us bad or different, just human. Some
people like being emotional outlaws. They'll always find a way to get the frisson of
otherness. But most people don't want to live that way. So ending kink's status as
dangerous and wrong, and its practitioners as other, is the most liberating thing we
can do -- for everyone.

That's certainly reasonable from a political standpoint. I've made similar arguments.
(Some folks, such as the brilliant male submissive writer maymay, also argue against the
common idea that kink is limited to BDSM; they prefer an expansive definition of
kink that denotes a vaster cornucopia of sexuality.)

Plus, I even suspect that a lot of the distinctions made by BDSMers ourselves are
based far more on stigma than sense. For example, when I was younger, I went through
a period where I couldn't stand to have the word submissive applied to myself. I
insisted that I was into BDSM solely for the physical sensation, and swore I would never
ever do something solely submission-oriented (such as wearing a collar). It was like I
could only handle BDSM as long as I distanced myself from the power elements; the
power elements carried too much stigma in my head for me to acknowledge them... yet.

I also used to carefully separate BDSM from sex in my head. Part of me felt like, If
my desire for pain and power is sexual, then it's weird. If it's not sexual, then it's less
weird. (It looks strange when I type it, now, but I guess that's how sexual stigma works:
it rarely holds up against the clear light of day.) It took me a while to integrate sexuality
into my BDSM practice. In contrast, I once met a couple who told me that it took them a
long time to do BDSM that wasn't part of sex. In their heads, the thought was more like:
If the desire for pain and power is sexual, then it's not weird. But if it's not sexual, then
it's really weird.”

I've heard of plenty of dungeons where sex is not allowed -- sometimes for legal reasons,
but sometimes because there is actually a social standard against it: people are like,
Dude, let's not get our nice pure BDSM all dirty by including sex. (Note: My

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018537
