21

has also played a central role in determining the destiny of the nation-
state. Egypt is still the top U.S. recipient of military assistance after
Israel. It is simply too embedded in the U.S. military-industrial
complex to risk alienating Washington. So, too, has the financial
clout and political weight of the Gulf Cooperation Council made a
precipitous Egyptian tilt toward Iran unlikely. Already, the Saudis
are reportedly trying to sabotage the emerging rapprochement
between the two countries. According to the head of Iran's Interest
Section in Cairo Mojtaba Amani, “Saudi Arabia has even threatened
to expel 1.5 million workers to dissuade Cairo from the resumption of
ties with Tehran.” Given these undeniable realities, an abrogation of
the Israeli-Egyptian 1979 peace accords or the formation of an axis
between Iran and Egypt is not in the offing. Moreover, the Egyptian
foreign minister has injected realism into the rapprochement euphoria
by indicating that Iran should not expect any substantial improvement
in bilateral ties unless a new government is elected. In fact, just
recently, Egypt expelled an Iranian on grounds of espionage, denting
efforts by both states to improve relations. Nonetheless, Egyptians
from across the political spectrum seem to support normalizing ties.
A delegation composed of Egyptian academics and civil society
leaders recently visited Iran. According to a member of the delegate,
Mustafa Nagar, “Iranians believe Egypt is a strong country, not only
to put Israel under pressure, but to benefit from the Egyptians
themselves, that’s why Egypt must restore ties with this great
civilization.”

The Post-Hegemonic Era

The United States should play a constructive role in the democratic
transition of Egypt. Despite anxieties over the possible shift in
Cairo’s foreign policy doctrine, Washington should ensure that the
development of civil democratic institutions is not, again,
compromised in the name of stability. The last thing Washington

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030176
