builds from then on, and peaks near retirement. But human capital grows quickly in
the 20s and thirties too, as most human and other depreciation is concentrated
toward the end. These are persuasive reasons to think that human capital is the

riskier and higher-return factor overall.

The argument becomes complicated in that most investment in us before
independence comes from parents rather than from self-invested work. Parents
have aa strong say in what risks children run, so that parental risk tolerance
governs too. But it governs most in pre-teen years, when parents themselves are
passing through their own risk tolerance peaks. And human capital is probably the
most versatile of assets in adjustment to our tastes for risk at the time. Cops can

become robbers at will, and robbers can get religion.

We should not slip into the error of concluding that an individual’s human capital is
riskier than her physical capital at the same time. Both adjust to her current risk
profile alike. That’s why the parable of the boss and her secretary falsifies the notion
that pay compensates realized work and nothing else. That would make return of
each in her human capital a little over 100% per day at the start of the last day, and
100% per second at the start of the last second, even while their security portfolios
reveal their time preference rates as a few percent per year. Human capital is not
inherently risker, as hand grenades than nerf balls. Each cohort adapts all its wealth
of both factors, counting balanced security portfolios as single assets, to its single
characteristic risk profile. There may be novelty, but not much surprise, in this

projection of the owner onto the asset rather than conversely.

That parable helped confirm the pay rule and explain age-wage profiles. It brought
another surprise along the way. I grew up being told that houses are safe
investments. But in fact they are owned by about the same age group and gender
mix that owns the business sector. The publicly traded corporate sector is a part of
the business sector that has given up return for safety by providing instant liquidity

to shareholders. The notion that houses are safe took a punch in the gut in 2008. The

Chapter 9: So What ‘s New? 3/17/16 3

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011119
