4l

one not having the necessary passwords and other access privileges, could steal documents that
betrayed these vital sources. He also demonstrated that such a theft, which the NSA calculates
exceeded one million documents, can go undetected for at least two weeks. If Snowden managed
this feat on his own, as he claims in his Hong Kong video, it suggests that any other civilian
employee with a perceived grievance against NSA practices or American foreign policy could also
walk away with some of the most precious secrets held by US intelligence. Such vulnerability
extends to tens of thousands of civilian contract employees in positions similar to the one held by
Snowden. The lone disgruntled employee explanation is therefore hardly reassuring. If true, calls
into question the entire multi-billion dollar enterprise of outsourcing the management of the
NSA’s computer networks and other technical work to outside contractors. It also casts doubts
on the post-9/11 decision by the intelligence community to strip away much of the NSA’s “stove-
piping” that previously insulated the NSA’s most sensitive computers. Without such “stove-
piping,” any rogue civilian employee could bring down entire edifice of shared intelligence.

Nor would a finding by the investigation that Snowden had acted in concert with others in
breaching compartments at the NSA be any more reassuring. Such collaboration among
intelligence workers would reflect gravely on the mindset of the NSA. Snowden described an
atmosphere in which intelligence workers exchanged lewd photographs of foreign suspects. Did
this violation of the NSA’s rules also involve abetting the theft of documents? If so, the NSA
would have to evaluate further vulnerabilities that might arise when it entrusts its secrets to
technicians who do not share is values. A collaborative breach would signal an immense failure of
the present concept of the counterintelligence regime in the NSA.

From what I gathered from government officials who were familiar with the investigation, there
was a concern that answering the “how” question could open up a Pandora Box of other issues
concerning the very ability of the NSA to carry out its core mission of protecting the
government’s intelligence secrets. However it was organized, it was that clear that Snowden had
played a major role in what amounted to a brilliant intelligence coup.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020193
