Date: Wed, Nov 4, 2015 at 4:45 AM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spin iii iii

okay, its time for you to decide how you would like to move forward. ( fyi get your money from the

1031 . the screw up is only one of many,) If you decide to move foward on decanting. phaidon, note basis
estate update , each requires many carefully orchestrated detailed steps. and precision . there are hundreds of
millions in saving if done correctly and a huge mess if not. If you want me and my colleagues to do it ,
oversee it paper it and guide it, you should tell me. It is a big undertaking . If not , ok .. Brad and your crew
can do it. I will have no real further involvement apart from confirming the outcome of my proposed
structure, I will not risk the admonition of- they thought you said, they thought you meant, they understood it
to be. but they said you said, (ie,I asked at our meeting that accounting be done properly for bens house ,
what came back was ada thought that I meant that we needed to go back to the 97 trust and give him a full third
party accounting of where his money had gone??!! I kid you not). I dont think brad should talk to jane heller
without a fully fleshed out plan in place and even then it should be you.

Date: Wed, Nov 11, 2015 at 10:59 AM
Subject:
To: Richard Joslin

Joe Avantario Po Brad Wechsler

lets calculate the exact payoff amount for the leon note as of nov30,DECI1 , dec31. 1) does art space get
folded in to phaidon. . middle cos disolved.? 2 collapse topco etc
open bank accounts for apoo
interest will be approx 50k per day . look at deduction.

note payoff docs- notaries . new docs. releases? , accountings? disclosures? ( gaming ? ) art partnership .
renew. will? repaper lease guarantees? macfarlanes. ? do we pay down 10m. of plane. ? proposal for airplane
, 91,135. exec, jet. .? remove debra. from plane?

Date: Wed, Nov 11, 2015 at 11:00 AM
Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella
we should discuss e trust andj black trust. , brad buying phaidon. artspace folding ? plane/ boat. foundation.

Date: Wed, Nov 11, 2015 at 9:09 PM
Subject:

To: Melanie Spinel! ia

we need to coordinate. brad bank, cannot be clumsy

Date: Fri, Nov 20, 2015 at 10:50 AM

Subject: agenda

To: Melanie Spinella

1. brador richard. makes litte difference. 2. gagosian . no written contract??!! fishy to me - who transfers
100 million dollars overseas without a contract ,- dont want you pulled into ascandal. careful especially as
he is on the tax dept radar,. 3. I would like you to delineate what you would like me todo - the more
specificity the better.- I think it important to avoid any misunderstandings as to each of our obligations and
responsbilities. I will always give you my best advice. I have made my views re ada and the office clear . no
hedging. . THEY should go. no hesitation . no zeus, your choice obviously. good news - I will not bring it up
again. moving forward- These transactions will require a great deal of manpower over the next

holiday month, every document needs minute review. . I would like to fix our fee agreement , in detail no
later than this weekend . ie amounts , dates paid . entities paid. any concept you may have of” after care? all
on the table. .other questions such as how much to leave your children ,in what form, has no right answer. but
you and I can dialougue as long as you like about issues of judgement. it is out of o friendship. not biz. ( bill
hellman as a trustee? ) . we can talk about that during walks etc. I would like for you and I to go back to

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023294
