severe form of trafficking in persons and eligible for continued presence. Finally, Federal law
enforcement involvement in the process allows Federal prosecutors the ability to identify
patterns of human trafficking activity that might span multiple local law enforcement
jurisdictions. For these same reasons, the new subsection (3)(B) should add “Federal” before
“law enforcement” to limit the authority to request parole for relatives to Federal law
enforcement officials.

The new subsection (c)(3)(A\{ii) should add “endeavor to” after “shall” so that a legally
actionable obligation is not created as to Federal law enforcement’s role in protecting the safety
of trafficking victims and family members. While the U.S. Government makes every effort to
protect trafficking victims, the statutory language, as written, could be construed to create a
legally cognizable right and could lead to litigation.

In the new subsection (c)(3)(A)(iii), DOJ opposes extending continued presence for the
duration of a civil suit. It also raises the potential for abuse because of the lengthy and
plaintiff/victim-controlled delays in conducting civil litigation. Furthermore, physical presence
in the United States is not necessary for the successful maintenance of a civil action. Victims
have other options to obtain status in the United States, such as T- and U-visas.

DOJ notes a technical change to subsection (d), which currently has two subsection (2)s.
DOJ recommends striking the second “(2)” and replacing it with a “(3).”

I. Section 202

The Department opposes the language in section (a) that legislates the existence of a
specific task force, such as the Trafficking in Persons and Worker Exploitation Task Force. DOJ
recommends deletion of this reference and the replacement of the cue task force with “the i
Attorney General.”

DOJ also opposes the 120 day deadline in subsection (f) as unreasonable due to language
barriers and translation needs.

12. Section 203

In subsections (a), (b)(1-2), and (c), DOJ opposes the language removing the Attorney
General’s role in determining whether the relevant applicant has complied with reasonable
requests for assistance, an important factor in the decisions regarding T-visas, and that the
investigation or prosecution is complete. Because the Department is involved in its prosecutorial
as well as its investigative roles, DOJ participation is critical in assessing assistance with law
enforcement, and it is well-situated to assess whether a victim has complied with reasonable
requests for assistance that went through investigative agencies outside DHS, such as cases
investigated by FBI or DOL. Therefore, a joint determination is appropriate because of the
number of different law enforcement agencies that may be involved in a particular matter. i

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012376
