InsightsPod

Execution

Marketing & Sales
Marketing Plan

We have planned to hire a PR and marketing agency to help create awareness and
spread the word out about our company. There are four companies in San Francisco
that are under consideration amongst which we will opt for one; The Outcast Agency,
Spark, SutherlandGold Group, and Brew. Usually, these companies charge $15,000 to
$20,000 per month for their services.

Feature articles and product reviews will help launch awareness of our platform.
Online advertisement will help with buyer impressions. The top 20 to 30 customers in
each segment will be approached first; a few sales hits in these top tiers will enable
achievement of targeted forecasts.

Sales Plan

In the first couple of months, the company will set up the office, hire a competent PR
firm and members of sales/business development to generate sales. There will be no
sales activity during this time span. Revenue will begin to flow in by the end of the first
six months.

InsightsPod expects to generate revenue from a subscription-based model. In order to
demonstrate the capability of our platform, InsightsPod's website will display limited
live insights on popular topics. Currently, we are displaying live insights on the US
presidential election's candidates and the Apple iPhone 7. In addition to this, key
contacts with senior writers at Wired Magazine, Business Week, CNet, and ZDnet
will bring positive national attention to our technology.

We anticipate that the initial revenues will come from businesses who will subscribe to
our service. InsightsPod will rigorously pursue government contracts from federal, state
and local governments. InsightsPod can be used by LEA to detect criminal and terrorist

| Page 8 |

CONFIDENTIAL - DO NOT DISSEMINATE. This business plan contains confidential, trade-secret
information and is shared only with the understanding that you will not share its contents or ideas with
third parties without the express written consent of the plan author.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028825
