things, whether the gray-haired money manager paid West Palm Beach girls

for sex or transported them across state lines. Epstein is currently charged by

the State of Florida with soliciting young prostitutes for sex - but federal

charges would be far more serious.

The Palm Beach Post reported yesterday that Epstein is very close to a deal

with the feds that would send him to jail for 1% to 2 years. Sources tell us that

while a deal has not yet solidified, what's under discussion is a guilty plea to

at least one charge in exchange for a sentence of 15 months in a Florida state

prison, followed by 15 months of home confinement. That would be a fraction

of the time he would have to serve if he were to be convicted by a jury.

Epstein's spokesman, Howard Rubenstein, said his client would have no

comment. Dershowitz also declined to comment late yesterday.

Palm Beach police records show that on March 15, 2005, a 14-year-old girl

alleged she had visited Epstein's estate, where she partially stripped and

gave him a massage during which he pulled out a purple vibrator and used it

on her in exchange for $300. A further probe uncovered five young women

who said Epstein had masturbated and touched their genitals during

massages, the records state. A woman named Haley Robson - who

described herself as like a Heidi Fleiss - later admitted bringing six girls

between the ages of 14 and 16 to Epstein's house, according to cops.

Despite the allegations, Epstein was only nailed on a single charge of

soliciting a hooker - but it sparked a federal probe. Epstein's lawyers and

friends have insisted he was the hapless victim of a vendetta by Palm Beach

Police Chief Michael Reiter, whom they described as a born-again nutcase.

Palm Beach Post - 08/14/ 2006

Police chief's reputation helps discredit attacks

By Larry Keller

Palm Beach Post - Monday, August 14, 2006

In the case of Palm Beach financier Jeffrey Epstein, it seems, at times, as if two men are
accused of wrongdoing: Epstein and Palm Beach Police Chief Michael Reiter.

Epstein, 53, was indicted last month on a charge of felony solicitation of prostitution
solely because of Reiter's craziness, one of Epstein's lawyers said. His department
disseminated a distorted view of the case and behaved in a childish manner when the
grand jury didn't indict Epstein on the charges it sought, another Epstein lawyer
complained.

To hear the Epstein camp tell it, Reiter, 48, is a loose cannon better suited to be the
sheriff of Mayberry. They whisper that he's embroiled in a messy divorce.

Reiter did in fact file for divorce from his wife, (NAME REMOVED), last year, after 24
years of marriage. They have a son, 18, and a daughter, 14. The couple is scheduled to go
to mediation next week, Aug. 16. Nothing in the court file suggests their split is
particularly ugly.

Reiter incurred the wrath of the Epstein camp as well as the state attorney's office for two

reasons. First, he pressed for Epstein to be charged with the more serious crimes of

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021800
