Attorney General Opinions

1) Memorial of Captain Meigs, 9 Op. Att'y Gen. 462 (1860): In this opinion the Attorney General
concluded that the President is permitted to disregard an unconstitutional statute. Specifically, Attorney
General Black concluded that a statute purporting to appoint an officer should not be enforced: Every
law is to be carried out so far forth as is consistent with the Constitution, and no further. The sound part
of it must be executed, and the vicious portion of it suffered to drop. Id. at 469.

2) Constitutionality of Congress' Disapproval of Agency Regulations by Resolutions Not Presented to
the President, 4A Op. O.L.C. 21 (1980): In this opinion Attorney General Civiletti instructed Secretary
of Education Hufstedler that she was authorized to implement regulations that had been disapproved by
concurrent congressional resolutions, pursuant to a statutory legislative veto. The Attorney General’
noted that the Attorney General must scrutinize with caution any claim that he or any other executive
officer may decline to defend or enforce a statute whose constitutionality is merely in doubt. Id. at 29.
He concluded, however, that [t]o regard these concurrent resolutions as legally binding would impair
the Executive's constitutional role and might well foreclose effective judicial challenge to their
constitutionality. More important, I believe that your recognition of these concurrent resolutions as
legally binding would constitute an abdication of the responsibility of the executive branch, as an equal
and coordinate branch of government with the legislative branch, to preserve the integrity of its
functions against constitutional encroachment. Id. .

3) The Attorney General's Duty to Defend and Enforce Constitutionally Objectionable Legislation, 4A

Op. O.L.C. 55.(1980): Attorney General Civiletti, in answer to a congressional inquiry, observed that
“Myers holds that the President's constitutional duty does not require him to execute unconstitutional
statutes; nor does it require him to execute them provisionally, against the day that-they are declared
unconstitutional by the courts. Id. at 59. He added as a cautionary note that [t]he President has no
“dispensing power,' meaning that the President and his subordinates “may not lawfully defy an Act of
Congress if the Act is constitutional. . . . In those rare instances in which the Executive may lawfully
act in contravention of a statute, it is the Constitution that dispenses with the operation of the statute.
The Executive cannot. Id. at 59-60.

4) Letter from William French Smith, Attorney General, to Peter W. Rodino, Jr., Chairman, House
Judiciary Committee (Feb. 22, 1985): This letter discussed the legal precedent and authority for the
President's refusal to execute a provision of the Competition in Contracting Act. The Attorney General
noted that the decision not to implement the disputed provisions has the beneficial byproduct of
increasing the likelihood of a prompt judicial resolution. Thus, far from unilaterally nullifying an Act
of Congress, the Department's actions are fully consistent with the allocation of judicial power by the
Constitution to the courts. Id. at 8. The letter also stated that the President's failure to veto a measure
does not prevent him subsequently from challenging the Act in court, nor does presidential approval of
an enactment cure constitutional defects. Id. at 3.

Office of Legal Counsel Opinions

1) Memorandum to the Honorable Robert J. Lipshutz, Counsel to the President, from John M.

Harmon, Assistant Attorney General, Office of Legal Counsel (Sept. 27, 1977): This opinion
concluded that the President may lawfully disregard a statute that he interprets to be unconstitutional.
We asserted that cases may arise in which the unconstitutionality of the relevant statute will be
certain, and in such a case the Executive could decline to enforce the statute for that reason alone. Id.
at 13. We continued, stating that [uJnless the unconstitutionality of a statute is clear, the President
Should attempt to resolve his doubts in a way that favors the statute, and he should not decline to
enforce it unless he concludes that he is compelled to do so under the circumstances. Id. We declined
to catalogue all the considerations that would weigh in favor of non-enforcement, but we identified
two: first the extent of the harm to individuals or the government resulting from enforcement; and,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012389
