interaction. People become spiritually energized and change in Zipruanna’s smelly,
garbage-filled presence. | keep a picture of him on my desk.

Gooch, in his implicitly and superficially righteous preoccupation with what he
considered disenfranchising human vulnerability, recalls how the medieval church
used the difficult to impossible vow of chastity for political control of their priesthood.
He seemed to have missed Baba’s lessons about the remarkably simple sounding
practices for mobilizing the energy of the God-receptive state. Once in this new
state, the rest of the metaphysical work almost takes care of itself. |, like many
others, adopted Baba’s mantra, Om Namah Shivaya, “| worship the God within me
(and you)” that he was given by his guru. The inner chant of this mantra brings me
to an internal quiet in which things become clearer. Meditation, chanting and service
to the guru was motivated by his promise that my egoistic concerns ranging from
the number of publications on my curriculum vitae, to the size and adroitness of my
penis, would disappear autonomously in the Baba state of bliss. This sounds very
much like the role of the transition to an “active intellect.” in Abraham Abulafia’s 13
Century Commentary on the Secrets. Arduous study of the spiritually dense writings
of Sri Aurobindo during the days with Professor Spiegelberg at Stanford gave me a
peak into the simple but difficult to execute idea of “simply” becoming the
transcendently comprehending state of existence-consciousness-bliss.

Whereas Baba would occasionally lapse into terse Sanskrit verse and its
multiplicity of potential meanings, Gurumayi keeps things simple. Sitting silently and
immobile at satsang for hours, she radiates transformational energy, shakti, that
makes ruminations about human affairs seem unimportant. The work is about
getting the self concerned head noise of ones preoccupations sufficiently out of the
way to allow the discovery of the God who has been waiting patiently within. A
fellow ashramite gave me a photograph of my first audience with Gurymayi. It
showed me on my knees in front of her. She appears to be dismissing me with a
baleful, almost disdainful look as my introducer, gesturing broadly, was, unasked,
reciting a list of my professional bona fides. The picture caught her waving me off
with a long, peacock-feathered stick. Obviously unimpressed, she is sending me

back to my all night, every night, tent cleaning labors at the Ashram. Rich Indian

49

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013549
