SECTION 7

Corporations

American corporations wield significant political influence domestically and are some of
the most significant sources of American soft power abroad. Foreign leverage over American
corporations can thus advance important strategic interests of the country in question.

In addition, as Chinese corporations go abroad, they, too, bring with them the potential

of being leveraged by the Chinese government to advance China’s interests. This section
examines improper influence in the US corporate sector, as well as the potential for future
influence because of significant economic exposure to China.

The US-China economic relationship is large and multifaceted. Trade statistics illustrate just
one aspect of this tangled web: In 2017, the United States exported goods worth $130 billion
to China, while importing goods worth $505 billion.’ With trade also comes extensive
foreign investment, as well as significant levels of employment of each country’s citizens.
Since 2000, the cumulative value of Chinese foreign direct investment (FDI) in the United
States has exceeded $140 billion, with US investment in China being more than double

that amount.’ In the United States, there is more Chinese investment in the real estate
sector than any other area. But until recently more deals are being done in the information
technology sector, which has attracted the growing attention of the Committee on Foreign
Investment in the United States (CFIUS).

China is increasingly willing to engage in aggressive forms of economic statecraft.?

This includes not just denial of access to, or harassment in, China’s own market, but
also targeting of other countries’ domestic economies and companies. These actions are
sometimes state-led; at other times China’s state-run media will encourage “consumer-led”
boycotts (as in the cases of Japan, Norway, and South Korea, among others).* Chinese
corporations abroad are all well aware of Chinese official policy and understand the value
of acting in support of their country’s foreign or industrial policy objectives. China’s
growing commercial presence in other countries’ economies strengthens its ability to
potentially influence their politics.

This section examines corporate sector influence through three lenses: (1) the use of
business-related United Front organizations in the United States; (2) Chinese companies
operating in America; and (3) Chinese pressuring and manipulation of American
companies as vectors of influence. All three approaches are cause for concern, yet

the pressuring manipulation of American corporations has generally attracted less
attention.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020562
