improper.” This was more than 30 years ago, at a time when being gay, and
certainly being gay in the armed forces, was a much bigger deal than now. But I
still had no doubt at all that this amounted to a witch-hunt.

Moshe still said nothing. “I have no idea whether Dan is or is not a
homosexual. After knowing him for years, I have no reason at all to believe that
he is. But let’s assume, for a moment, that he is,” I said. He’s not some junior
lieutenant... This is a man who has risked his life for Israel. Repeatedly. Under
fire.” Then, I got to the real issue. “I hesitate to mention this,” I said, realizing,
and in a way hoping, that my tone would sound vaguely threatening. “But if you
order this, the very fact of doing so might be interpreted as being a result of
some other motives on your part. I’m doing my best to convince you to think
again. But I want you to know that if I can’t, ’'m going from here to Misha’s
office. I'll try to convince him of the damage from what you’re contemplating to
the whole fabric of trust in the general staff and the army, to the image of the
army.” Still, he said nothing. He nodded occasionally. He puffed on his
cigarette, put it out, lit another one. It was pretty clear he had no intention of
rescinding his order.

Within 20 minutes, was in the Minister of Defense’s office. I spoke to him for
about 10 minutes. Misha listened. At the end, he said: “I understand what you’ve
told me.” I never discovered what exactly he said to Moshe Vechetzi. But the
investigation never happened. I never spoke a word about any of it to Dan until
years later, after both of us had left the army.

The result, however, was that Dan became deputy chief-of-staff under
Moshe, the latest step in what was beginning to look like a steady rise to the top.
But Misha did make a few concessions to Moshe’s preferred candidates, and that
now turned out to have major implications for me. It was a long-accepted
practice that chiefs-of-staff had more than one deputy during their period in
charge. In the homestretch of Moshe’s tenure, he was able to bring in Amir Drori
for a spell as his number-two. And early in 1986, he also brought Amnon Lipkin
back to the kirya. Amnon was given my job, as Director of Intelligence. But I got
the post which Amnon was leaving: head of the central command area. This
meant that, for the first time, I would be in charge of one of Israel’s three regional
military commands, and we were based on the edge of Jerusalem, with security
responsibility for the West Bank.

This was my first direct exposure to the combustible mix of restive
Palestinians and the growing number of Jewish settlers. Our main brief was to
prevent terror attacks, violence or unrest from the roughly 850,000 West Bank

220
HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028068
