Freedom House

Introduction

Modern Authoritarianism: Origins, Anatomy, Outlook

As the world’s democracies confront a dangerous
internal challenge from populist and nationalist
political forces, it is imperative that they recognize the
simultaneous external threat presented by modern
authoritarian regimes. These 21° century authori-
tarians developed an arsenal of new tactics to use
against their domestic opponents, and gone on the
offensive in an effort to subvert and replace the liberal
international order.

But modern authoritarian systems are not simply
adversaries of free societies. They also represent an
alternative model—a grim future for beleaguered
democracies that have already fallen under the sway
of illiberal leaders and have suffered an erosion of
freedom.

Democracy under siege

Global democracy is currently facing the repercus-
sions of what has been called the “decade of decline.
The phrase describes a 10-year-plus period, from 2006
to 2016, during which the state of freedom experi-
enced more reversals than gains as measured by Free-
dom in the World, the annual report on political rights
and civil liberties published by Freedom House.

According to Freedom in the World, the crucial
indicators of democracy experienced setbacks in
each of the 10 years in question. In all, 105 countries
suffered net declines, while 61 showed some mea-
sure of improvement. The decade marked the longest
democratic slump of its kind in more than 40 years of
Freedom House analysis.’

The decade of decline has been principally character-
ized by a steady erosion of political institutions in es-
tablished authoritarian countries, or in countries that
were clearly headed in that direction. In other words,
repressive countries became even more repressive—
the bad became even worse.’

However, a parallel pattern of institutional erosion has
affected some more democratic states, pushing them
into the category of “illiberal democracies.” In these so-
cieties, elections are regularly conducted, sometimes
under conditions that are reasonably fair. But the state,
usually under the control of a strong party or leader,
applies much of its energy to the systematic weaken-
ing of political pluralism and the creation of a skewed
electoral playing field. Opposition parties are often
impotent, freedom of the press is circumscribed, and
the judiciary tends to be dominated by the ruling party.
Countries that fit this description include Hungary,
Bolivia, Ecuador, and, if recent trends continue, Poland.

There are many reasons for the global decline in dem-
ocratic indicators, but the statistical evidence from
Freedom in the World suggests that modern author-
itarian regimes have found a way to survive without
resorting to democratic reforms, and that a number
of democracies—as part of the general loss of liberal
consensus—are engaging in their own antidemocratic
experiments.

Modern authoritarianism

The traditional authoritarian state sought monopolis-
tic control over political life, a one-party system orga-

nized around a strongman or military junta, and direct
rule by the executive, sometimes through martial law,
with little or no role for the parliament.

Traditional dictatorships and totalitarian regimes were
often defined by closed, command, or autarkic econo-
mies, a state media monopoly with formal censorship,
and “civil society” organizations that were structured

as appendages of the ruling party or state. Especially

in military dictatorships, the use of force—including
military tribunals, curfews, arbitrary arrests, political
detentions, and summary executions—was pervasive.
Often facing international isolation, traditional dictator-
ships and totalitarian regimes forged alliances based on

www.freedomhouse.org

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019239
