COWEN
COLLABORATIVE INSIGHTS February 25, 2019

ADDENDUM

Stocks Mentioned In Important Disclosures

Ticker Company Name

WEED Canopy Growth Corporation
GWPH GW Pharmaceuticals Plc
TLRY Tilray

TPB Turning Point Brands

Important Disclosures and Information Relating to Cowen Washington Research Group

Cowen Washington Research Group produces commentaries on political, economic or market conditions. Commentaries produced by Cowen Washington Research Group are not
intended as research reports as defined in FINRA Rule 2241 Research Analysts and Research Reports or FINRA Rule 2242 Debt Research Analysts and Debt Research Reports.
Sections of this report noted as authored by Cowen Washington Research Group have not been prepared, are not intended, and should not be interpreted as a research report or
investment recommendation regarding securities of any company. Investors should not consider purchasing or selling securities based upon any information contained in sections of
the report denoted as authored by Cowen Washington Research Group.

Cowen Research Analyst Certification

Each author of this research report hereby certifies that (i) the views expressed in the research report accurately reflect his or her personal views about any and all of the subject
securities or issuers, and (ii) no part of his or her compensation was, is, or will be related, directly or indirectly, to the specific recommendations or views expressed in this report.

Important Disclosures Relating to Cowen Research

Cowen and Company, LLC and or its affiliates make a market in the stock of GW Pharmaceuticals Plc, Tilray, Turning Point Brands and Canopy Growth Corporation securities.

Cowen and Company, LLC served as the placement agent in connection with Tilray's Series A preferred stock financing in February and March 2018.

Cowen and Company, LLC managed or co-managed a public offering of GW Pharmaceuticals Plc, Tilray, Turning Point Brands and Canopy Growth Corporation in the past 12 months.

Cowen and Company, LLC received compensation for investment banking services from GW Pharmaceuticals Plc, Tilray, Turning Point Brands and Canopy Growth Corporation in the
past 12 months.

GW Pharmaceuticals Plc, Tilray, Turning Point Brands and Canopy Growth Corporation is or has been in the past 12 months a client of Cowen and Company, LLC; Cowen and Company,
LLC has provided or is providing investment banking services during the past 12 months.

Cowen and Company, LLC and/or its affiliates expect to receive, or intend to seek, compensation for investment banking services in the next 3 months from Tilray and Turning Point
Brands.

Cowen and Company, LLC compensates research analysts for activities and services intended to benefit the firm's investor clients. Individual compensation determinations for research
analysts, including the author(s) of this report, are based on a variety of factors, including the overall profitability of the firm and the total revenue derived from all sources, including
revenues from investment banking, sales and trading or principal trading revenues. Cowen and Company, LLC does not compensate research analysts based on specific investment
banking transactions or specific sales and trading or principal trading revenues.

The Nielsen material contained in this report represent Nielsen's estimates and do not represents facts. Nielsen has neither reviewed nor approved this report and/or any of the
statements made herein.

Information contained in this report from The NPD Group, Inc. and its affiliates is the proprietary and confidential property of NPD and was made available for publication herein by
way of limited license from NPD. Such NPD data may not be re-published in any manner, in whole or in part, without the express written consent of NPD.

Disclaimer

Our research reports and commentaries are simultaneously available to all clients are on our client website. Research reports and commentaries are for our clients only. Not all
research reports and commentaries are disseminated, e-mailed or made available to third-party aggregators. Cowen and Company, LLC is not responsible for the redistribution
of research or commentaries by third party aggregators. Selected research reports and commentaries are available in printed form in addition to an electronic form. All published
research reports and commentaries can be obtained on the firm’s client website, https://cowenlibrary .bluematrix.com/client/library jsp.

The information, opinions, estimates and forecasts are as of the date of this report and subject to change without prior notification. We seek to update our research and commentaries
as appropriate, but various regulations may prevent us from doing so. Research reports and commentaries are published at irregular intervals as appropriate in the analyst's
judgement.

Further information on subject securities may be obtained from our offices. This research report is published solely for information purposes, and is not to be construed as an offer
to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any security in any state where such an offer or solicitation would be illegal. Other than disclosures relating to Cowen and Company, LLC,
the information herein is based on sources we believe to be reliable but is not guaranteed by us and does not purport to be a complete statement or summary of the available data.
Any opinions expressed herein are statements of our judgment on this date and are subject to change without notice. The opinions and recommendations herein do not take into
account individual client circumstances, objectives or needs and are not intended as recommendations of investment strategy. The recipients of this report must make their own
independent decisions regarding any securities subject to this research report. In some cases, securities and other financial instruments may be difficult to value or sell and reliable
information about the value or risks related to the security or financial instrument may be difficult to obtain. To the extent that this report discusses any legal proceedings or issues,
it has not been prepared to express or intended to express any legal conclusion, opinion or advice. Our salespeople, traders and other professionals may provide oral or written
market commentary or trading strategies to our clients that reflect opinions that are contrary to the opinions expressed in our research. Our principal trading area and investing
businesses may make investment decisions that are inconsistent with recommendations or views expressed in our research. Cowen and Company, LLC maintains physical, electronic
and procedural information barriers to address the flow of information between and among departments within Cowen and Company, LLC in order to prevent and avoid conflicts of
interest with respect to analyst recommendations.

For important disclosures regarding the companies that are the subject of this research report, please contact Compliance Department, Cowen and Company, LLC, 599 Lexington
Avenue, 20th Floor, New York, NY 10022. In addition, the same important disclosures, with the exception of the valuation methods and risks, are available on the Firm's disclosure
website at httos://cowen.bluematrix.com/sellside/Disclosures.action.

COWEN.COM 101

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024917
