communicate their thoughts to one another. The aim is to present a mosaic of views
which will help make sense out of this rapidly emerging field.

I asked the essayists to consider:

(a) The Zen-like poem “Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird,” by Wallace
Stevens, which he insisted was “not meant to be a collection of epigrams or of ideas, but
of sensations.” It is an exercise in “perspectivism,” consisting of short, separate sections,
each of which mentions blackbirds in some way. The poem is about his own imagination;
it concerns what he attends to.

(b) The parable of the blind men and an elephant. Like the elephant, AI is too big
a topic for any one perspective, never mind the fact that no two people seem to see things
the same way.

What do we want the book to do? Stewart Brand has noted that “revisiting
pioneer thinking is perpetually useful. And it gives a long perspective that invites
thinking in decades and centuries about the subject. All contemporary discussion, is
bound to age badly and immediately without the longer perspective.”

Danny Hillis wants people in AI to realize how they’ ve been programmed by
Wiener’s book. “You’re executing its road map,” he says, and you just don’t realize it.”

Dan Dennett would like to “let Wiener emerge as the ghost at the banquet. Think
of it as a source of hybrid vigor, a source of unsettling ideas to shake up the established
mindset.”

Neil Gershenfeld argues that “stealth remedial education for the people running
the “Big Five” would be a great output from the book.”

Freeman Dyson Freeman, one of the few people alive who knew Wiener, notes
that “Zhe Human Use of Human Beings is one of the best books ever written. Wiener got
almost everything right. I will be interested to see what your bunch of wizards will do
with it.”

The Evolving AI Narrative

Things have changed—and they remain the same. Now AI is everywhere. We have the
Internet. We have our smartphones. The founders of the dominant companies—the
companies that hold “the whip that lashes us’—have net worths of $65 billion, $90
billion, $130 billion. High-profile individuals such as Elon Musk, Nick Bostrom, Martin
Rees, Eliezer Yudkowsky, and the late Stephen Hawking have issued dire warnings about
AI, resulting in the ascendancy of well-funded institutes tasked with promoting “Nice
AI.” But will we, as a species, be able to control a fully realized, unsupervised, self-
improving AI? Wiener’s warnings and admonitions in Zhe Human Use of Human Beings
are now very real, and they need to be looked at anew by researchers at the forefront of
the AI revolution. Here is Dyson again:

Wiener became increasingly disenchanted with the “gadget worshipers” whose
corporate selfishness brought “motives to automatization that go beyond a
legitimate curiosity and are sinful in themselves.” He knew the danger was not
machines becoming more like humans but humans being treated like machines.
“The world of the future will be an ever more demanding struggle against the
limitations of our intelligence,” he warned in God & Golem, Inc., published in

15

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016235
