The Crime Scene Investigation | 141

had to consider the possibility that his whistle-blowing was, partly if
not wholly, a cover for another enterprise.

Snowden told journalists he had access to “millions of records
that [he] could walk out the door with at any time with no account-
ability, no oversight, no auditing, the government didn’t even know
they were gone.” However, he was not among the limited number
of individuals at the center who had access to these documents.
Both the NSA’s and Booz Allen’s employment records showed that
Snowden had not yet completed his requisite on-the-job training
when he carried out the theft. Consequently, he had not yet been
provided with the passwords he needed to get the documents. Even
if he had remained at the NSA long enough to finish his training,
he would only have been provided with the password to the particu-
lar compartment relevant to his work, not to all compartments. The
tight control over these passwords was, according to a former top
NSA official, a critical part of the NSA’s security framework. He told
me that Snowden, at least during the period of the thefts in April
and May 2013, had no more legitimate access to the compartments

© than the cleaning personnel. Somehow, though, Snowden converted ©
his proximity to access.

Ifa hundred top-quality diamonds were stolen from locked vaults
at Tiffany by a recently hired trainee who, it turned out, did not have
the combination to open these vaults, the police would be expected to
consider that the trainee might have had help from a current or for-
mer insider at the company who knew the combinations. Snowden,
who had accomplished a similarly inexplicable feat, said in his video
confession that he was solely responsible. However, it is perfectly
logical to assume, given the circumstances, that he might have had
help, unwitting or witting.

The FBI could assume either that the NSA’s security regime was
so badly flawed that Snowden could trick his fellow workers into
providing him with access or that there was another individual at
the center who might have assisted or directed Snowden. When the
investigation came to this fork in the road in the summer of 2013,
according to a source on the House Intelligence Comittee, it chose
the former route.

Finally, there was the question of whether Snowden had gone to

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 141 ® 9/30/16 11:09 AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019629
