As a result, notwithstanding my considerable feminist writing and activism, I live in fear
of my feminist card being revoked because of my BDSM identity.

Yet, simultaneously, my practice of BDSM has greatly informed my feminist
understanding. Rape and consent are both very important feminist issues, and much of
the BDSM community obsessively examines sexual consent. The dominant BDSM
community mantra is SSC: Safe, Sane, and Consensual. Some people debate whether
another mantra would be better, but I have never heard of someone removing the
consensual part. Indeed, the ways many BDSMers think of sexual consent overlap
dramatically with the ways that many feminists think of it.

Safewords are a famous and high-profile example of careful BDSM communication
tactics. They are specific code words that any participant can use to stop the sexual action
at any time. Safewords are important in a context where one partner might want to
scream No! or Please don't! or Mercy! with no intention of actually stopping the
action.

Safewords serve another, stealthier, but equally important function: they bring home the
idea that consent is a continuously changing process. Consent is part of the ongoing
sexual negotiation that takes place between two people. Here, BDSM consent ideas
overlap heavily with feminist consent ideas. For example, one article by high-profile
feminist Jaclyn Friedman pushes back against dominant conceptions of consent by stating
that consent is not a lightswitch. As Friedman writes:

Sexual consent isn't like a lightswitch, which can be either on, or off. It's not like
there's this one thing called sex you can consent to anyhow. Sex is an evolving series
of actions and interactions. You have to have the enthusiastic consent of your partner for
all of them. And even if you have your partner's consent for a particular activity, you
have to be prepared for it to change.

Safewords are, effectively, a constant reminder that you have to be prepared for
[consent] to change.”

BDSMers and feminists tend to teach explicit, straightforward verbal sexual
communication -- in contrast to the seduction community, which typically teaches non-
verbal or playfully tacit sexual communication. For example, the seduction community
has an extensive array of discussions about how to initiate flirtatious touching, which
PUAs refer to as kino. The seduction community also places a strong emphasis on
developing skill at reading a social situation without asking exactly what is going on; if a
PUA is good at understanding implicit social signals, he is described as calibrated.

For BDSMers and feminists, the sexual consent territory continues to overlap after
safewords. Huge factions, if not majorities, within both groups have concluded that the
best way to encourage consent is not merely to encourage people to understand that they
can withdraw consent at any point -- but to encourage open communication and self-
knowledge about sex.

Among feminists, an example of this approach is Jaclyn Friedman's brand-new book
What You Really, Really Want: The Smart Girl's Shame-Free Guide to Sex and Safety.
Salon's Tracy Clark-Flory notes in an interview with Friedman that:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018669
