17

is determined to depose him, the ruler of Syria is in deep trouble. It
may be only a matter of time before Assad falls, but we simply do not
know how long it will take and how it will unfold.

External intervention and support for anti-government forces is
undoubtedly the most important issue that separates the Libyan case
from the Syrian one. Slaughtered by Qaddafi’s regime, Libyan
protesters did not hesitate to ask for Western military intervention,
which they ultimately got in the form of a NATO aerial campaign.
Let’s be honest and clear, without NATO’s air strikes, the no-fly
zone, and the sanctions against Qaddafi, the civil war in Libya would
have dragged on even longer, and rebel victory would have been
extremely difficult if not impossible to achieve.

The majority of the protesters in Syria do not want Western military
intervention. Their position is both courageous and rational, but it is
not without costs and risks. With external military assistance (if the
West sends arms or launches another NATO aerial campaign), they
would be in a better position operationally to overthrow Assad, but
their ability to govern their country in the future autonomously would
be more limited (surely nothing is for free in international relations).
Without external military assistance, they are extremely vulnerable
and at the mercy of Assad’s tanks and security forces, but if they pull
his overthrow off, they will own their country’s future and put
themselves in a position to better ward off future foreign meddling
and interference. It is not an easy choice, but so far, the Syrian
protesters have decided to go it alone, and one must understand and
respect their remarkable position.

While the balance of forces currently tilts heavily in Assad’s favor,
Qaddafi’s downfall might just be the necessary factor that will
embolden the protesters and offer them a sizeable advantage. This is
not naive or farfetched. After all, it was the plight of Tunisian vendor

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031929
