And I think that’s why you’re seeing — when you read the media says, “tea party is losing,
losing elections,” that is all BS. The elections we don’t win, we’re forcing those crony
capitalists to come and admit that they’re not going to do this again. The whole narrative
in Washington has been changed by this populist revolt that we call the grassroots of the
tea party movement.

And it’s specifically because those bailouts were completely and totally unfair. It didn’t
make those financial institutions any stronger, and it bailed out a bunch of people — by
the way, and these are people that have all gone to Yale, and Harvard, they went to the
finest institutions in the West. They should have known better.

And by the way: It’s all the institutions of the accounting firms, the law firms, the
investment banks, the consulting firms, the elite of the elite, the educated elite, they
understood what they were getting into, forcibly took all the benefits from it and then
look to the government, went hat in hand to the government to be bailed out. And they've
never been held accountable today. Trust me — they are going to be held accountable.
You're seeing this populist movement called the tea party in the United States.
Harnwell: Okay, I think we've got time for just one or two more questions for Stephen
K. Bannon, chairman of Breitbart Media, third-largest news organization in the States. I
know youw’re a very, very busy man, so we’re very grateful for the time that you've agreed

to put aside for this, to close this conference.

“T certainly think secularism has sapped the
strength of the Judeo-Christian West to defend
its ideals, right?”

Bannon: I’m never too busy to share with a group that can do as much good as you guys
can.

Questioner: What do you think is the major threat today, to the Judeo-Christian
Civilization? Secularism, or the Muslim world? In my humble opinion, they’re just trying
to defend themselves from our cultural invasion. Thank you.

[Question restated by Harnwell]

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029078
