BREAKING DOWN DEMOCRACY: Goals, Strategies, and Methods of Modern Authoritarians

In some countries, Russia has made progress among
both far-right nationalists and more traditional con-
servative parties. In Hungary, for example, Moscow
has a reliable ally in Jobbik and a business partner in
the ruling Fidesz party, which has been critical of the
EU's economic sanctions.* The Hungarian parliament
conducted an investigation into allegations that the
Kremlin was helping to finance Jobbik. There were
also charges that a Jobbik member of the European
Parliament was a Russian agent. Gabor Vona, the
chairman of Jobbik, has embraced the idea of Eur-
asianism and speculated that Hungary could serve as
a “bridge” between Europe and Asia.

At the intergovernmental level, Russia in 2015 provided
Hungary with a $10.8 billion loan to expand the Paks
nuclear power plant, a facility that supplies 40 percent
of the country’s electricity. The project was to have
been put out for open bidding until Hungarian officials
abruptly decided to accept the proposal from Russia's
state nuclear energy firm—financed by the Kremlin's
loan—without competition.® Some believe that the
Paks deal is meant to encourage the Fidesz government
to continue its support for an EU policy that would be
more sympathetic toward Russian interests.® While the
Fidesz leader, Prime Minister Viktor Orban, has been
cautious in public statements about Putin and Russia,
he did identify Russia as one of several countries with
illiberal or authoritarian governments that would pro-
vide the models for global political development in the
future, as opposed to supposedly declining powers like
the United States and the EU's founding members.’

The Russian government has also developed friendly
ties to parties in Slovakia. Marian Kotleba, leader of
the far-right People’s Party—Our Slovakia, supported
Ukrainian president Viktor Yanukovych in his decision
to reject an association agreement with the EU and
pursue closer ties with Russia instead—a decision
that ultimately led to Yanukovych’s fall from power in
February 2014. Slovakia's left-leaning populist prime
minister, Robert Fico, has publicly expressed his lack
of enthusiasm for the EU sanctions imposed on Rus-
sia following the invasion of Ukraine.’

In other countries, there is evidence that Moscow has
bankrolled environmentalist protests against the devel-
opment of local hydrocarbon resources, which would
reduce European dependence on Russian oil and nat-
ural gas. In 2012, street protests compelled Bulgaria's
prime minister, Boyko Borisov, to cancel contracts with
Chevron to explore shale-oil sites in the country. Those
who suspect the Kremlin's involvement in the demon-

strations point to a €20 million media campaign that
was handled by companies with Russian ties, as well
as enthusiastic support from Ataka, a far-right political
party that is aggressively pro-Russia?

Russia and the right

During the Cold War, the Soviet Union could count on
the uncritical support of a network of left-wing parties
and personalities in the democratic world. Some were
formally communist; others were independent leftists
or part of what was called the peace camp, which
argued that the West, especially the United States,
shared responsibility with the Soviets for the world’s
political tensions, and therefore chose a path of pollit-
ical neutrality. In the Cold War's later years, a growing
collection of business interests encouraged détente
between the Soviet Union and the United States due
to the economic opportunities it would offer.

Under Putin, Russia has formed its alliances on a
strictly nonideological basis. Russia has built close
diplomatic ties with Venezuela, governed by a socialist
movement; Iran, an authoritarian system under the
rule of Shiite Muslim clerics; Syria, a dictatorship with
nominally Arab nationalist views; and China, a formally
communist regime devoted to state-led capitalism.
The interests that draw these governments together
are a common hostility to democratic norms, a need
for allies to block criticism and sanctions at inter-

national bodies, a fear of “color revolutions” and the
potential consequences of democracy-promotion
projects backed by foreign donors, and an adversarial
relationship with the United States.

In its dealings with European political parties or move-
ments, Russia adheres to a similar policy of ideolog-
ical indifference, focusing instead on those with an
interest in disrupting Europe's political establishment
and weakening its unity. Thus Putin has courted leftist
parties like Syriza, which leads the current govern-
ment of Greece and opposes austerity measures
imposed by the EU. Nigel Farage, former leader of the
anti-EU United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP),
and Nick Griffin, head of the far-right British National
Party, have both praised Putin for his leadership quali-
ties; but so has Alex Salmond of the Scottish National
Party, which seeks Scottish independence within the
EU and supports social democratic policies.

For the most part, however, Russia's allies in dem-
ocratic countries are found on the political right. A
Swedish journalist who examined votes in the Europe-
an Parliament reported that right-leaning Euroskeptic

42

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019276
