Edwards adv. Epstein
Telephone interview with Virginia Roberts
Page 4 of 23

V: I’ve got it written down. It’s like - I’m not good with math — hold on —I thought I wrote
it down but I didn’t. I’m not too sure, J think it was 1998 off the top of my head and
around June of 1998, I would say as I was turning 16 at the end of the summer.

JS: Alright. You talked about the room where Jeffrey had the pornographic photographs.
Did you actually see that room on the occasion of your first visit there?

V: No, I got to see that room a few visits after but I was just trying to describe that room to
you guys so you knew exactly what room I was talking about.

JS: | Another question for you, and I don’t mean to be prying into your personal life, and if I
ask you any questions at all that you’re uncomfortable answering, then you just tell me
that and we’ll move on, because I appreciate your cooperation and the last I thing I want
to do is impose upon that cooperation, but can you tell us please just generally what kind
of sexual experience you had had prior to this confrontation with Jeffrey?

V: Yeah, sure. A close family friend has sexually abused me, and I was on the streets at 13
years old. I was picked up by a 67 year old man named Ron _Eppinger_ who did exactly
what Jeffrey did with me abuse and violate my youthfulness _ & I was with him for 6
months. So, he was gone and then I had this boyfriend who was like my school friend
from young days but we just kept in contact with each other and we were on and off
constantly, and that was Tony Figeroua_, and there was also another younger guy was
near my age, Michael, I can’t remember his last name, but yeah, there, I mean, there
wasn’t like a string of men or anything, but there was Ron, like I told you, and he was the
first guy expecting me to do so-called disgusting affairs. Jeffrey actually knew Ron,
which was quite weird when I told Jeffrey the story about Ron, and Jeffrey had actually
met him, and yeah. Anyway, just another story, and yeah, there were a couple of men,
but that gives you an idea.

JS: | Now when you described the photographs in the room as pornographic, tell me just a
little bit about the photographs, if you would please? First, how many of them were
there?

V: At least 100, and like I said, they covered the room from the ceiling, not the ceiling but
from the top of the edge of the wall to the bottom of the floor. I want to say at least a
hundred, even more, there could have been more in the boxes Some of them were A4_
photographs, like the large size, some of naked women posing, you know, positions, sexy
positions. Others were, you know, some girls had bikinis on, and it wasn’t so
pornographic, but it was all women, and it was all in a sexual nature.

JS: | Were there photographs where more than one person appeared?

V: Oh yeah, plenty of them. There were lots of naked photographs, I mean I was just trying
to give you a visual range. There was anything from 5x6s to 4x8s to 8x4s. Some of them

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015559
