26

officials, senior members of the Obama Administration, and members of the oversight committees
of Congress do not view Snowden as a hero or even an authentic whistle-blower. Instead they
see him as a betrayer of secrets who, acting willfully brought damage to the United States and
benefits to its adversaries. The holders of this darker view of Snowden base it on classified reports
of the full extent of the theft of classified data. Those officials reckon that only handful of the tens
of thousands of documents he stole involved domestic surveillance, and these few documents
served as a cover for a much larger theft. Admiral Michael Rogers, who replaced General
Alexander as head of the NSA in January 2014, said that March at a public forum at Princeton
University. “Edward Snowden is not the whistleblower some have labeled him to be.” He
further explained to Congress: “Snowden stole from the United States government a large amount
of classified information, a small portion of which is germane to his apparent central argument
regarding NSA and privacy issues.” Gen. Martin Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, went even further. He testified to the House Armed Services Committee on March 6, 2014,
after estimating that the Snowden breach could cost the military “billions” to repair, added that
The vast majority of the electronic documents that Snowden exfiltrated from our highest levels
of security had nothing to do with exposing government oversight of domestic activities. He
based this assessment on then still-secret Defense Intelligence Agency’s report on the breach.
Although he did not reveal the full extent of the damage even in his classified testimony to
Congress in 2013, the classified DIA report showed that Snowden took over 900,000 military
files from the Department of Defense (DoD) in addition to the NSA files he had taken.. The
Defense Department loss in terms of the number of files stolen actually exceeded the loss, in sheer
numbers, of NSA documents. Lieutenant General Mike Flynn, the DIA director, who directed
the DIA secret study, testified to the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence that the breach “has
caused grave damage to our national security.”

To be sure, this was not the first time that the cryptological branches of the military had been
compromised. The spy ring of John Walker had provided thousands of the Navy’s reports on
breaking Russian ciphers to the KGB during the Cold War era, for example. But the Snowden
breach exposing military sources was an order of magnitude greater than any past breach.

The CIA’s assessment was no less grim. Michael J. Morell, the deputy director of the CIA in
2013, who, after Snowden’s breach, was appointed by President Obama to the task force to
review the NSA’s intelligence breach and its consequences for national security, wrote that
Snowden’s action went beyond taking the handful of documents, such as the FISA order, “that
addressed the privacy issue.” Instead, as Morell put it, “he backed up a virtual tractor trailer and
emptied a warehouse full of documents—the vast majority of which he could not possibly have
read and few of which he would likely understand—T[and] and he delivered the documents to a
variety of news organizations and God knows who else.” _—_As a result, Morell concluded
“Snowden’s disclosures will go down in history as the greatest compromise of classified
information ever.”

General Keith Alexander, the head of the NSA at the time, came to a very similar assessment,
asserting that Snowden did “the greatest damage to our combined nations’ intelligence systems
that we have ever suffered.” To be sure, it is to be expected that military intelligence officers

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020178
