e » I shot every gun I’ve ever dreamed of firing since brainwashing
myself with Commando . Bless the Slovak Republic and their
paramilitaries.

e » I filmed a television series pilot in Japan, a lifelong dream and the
most fun I’ve had in months, if not years.

e» I met with my Japanese publisher, Seishisha, and had media
interviews in Tokyo, where the 4HWW is now #1 in several of
the largest chains.

¢ » I took a complete 10-day media fast and felt like I’d had a two-
year vacation from computers.

¢ » I attended the Tokyo International Film Festival and hung out with
one of my heroes, the producer of the Planet Earth television
series.

Once you realize that you can turn off the noise without the world ending, you’re liberated in a way
that few people ever know.

Just remember: If you don’t have attention, you don’t have time. Did I have time to check e-mail and
voicemail? Sure. It might take 10 minutes. Did I have the attention to risk fishing for crises in those 10
minutes? Not at all.

As tempting as it is to “just check e-mail for one minute,” I didn’t do it. I know from experience that
any problem found in the inbox will linger in the brain for hours or days after you shut down the
computer, rendering “free time” useless with preoccupation. It’s the worst of states, where you
experience neither relaxation nor productivity. Be focused on work or focused on something else, never
in-between.

Time without attention is worthless, so value attention over time.

Here are a few questions that can help you pop on the productivity blinders and put things in
perspective. Even when you’re not traveling the world, develop the habit of letting small bad things
happen. If you don’t, you’ll never find time for the life-changing big things, whether important tasks or
true peak experiences. If you do force the time but puncture it with distractions, you won’t have the
attention to appreciate it.

e » What is the one goal, if completed, that could change everything’?

e > What is the most urgent thing right now that you feel you “must”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013993
