118 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

needles which don’t interfere with MRI scanners, and they are small — no
golf swing problems here. Studies of knitters show that when they initially
learn a skill, several areas of their brain light up, but after a while, the
brain activity becomes concentrated in the sensorimotor striatal territory.

Glucose, the brain’s power source, is a sugar we get directly from
eating sweets or indirectly by digesting starch. Some studies show
children do slightly better at school if they eat starchy foods in the
morning for breakfast — a bowl of cereal or porridge. When you think
and work your brain consumes the glucose in your blood, and blood
glucose level drops. If there is a steady source of glucose from the starch
digesting in your gut, the glucose is constantly topped up and the level
will stay high. If there is no input of glucose from your gut, the body will
first get glucose from glycogen in your liver or generate it by converting
fat reserves. This takes more work so the body tends to avoid doing so
until it absolutely has to. You can function with slightly lower glucose
levels but the body will shut down a little. One thing that suffers as a
result is the brain’s ability to perform cognitive tasks. A quick and easy
way to fix this is to consume some raw glucose and most fridges have a
ready supply in the form of sugary drinks. Stories of kids ranning amok,
due to sugar highs brought on by too many sweets and sodas, appear to
be an urban legend. In tests, parents told their children have had a sugar
drink report them to be hyperactive even if they had been given a sugar
free drink. ’'m not suggesting you drink lots of sugary drinks — it is bad
for your teeth and will make you fat — but the occasional soda is fine.

Memory

Scientists are just beginning to explore the mechanisms that lay down
memory in the brain. There are two main classes of theory. ‘The first
believes memory is formed in the large scale wiring of the brain.
Neurons connect with other neurons and the number and strength of
these connections cause memory. When we learn, new connections are
formed. The electrical activity in a given part of the brain triggers the
formation of new dendrites. They grow, piloted by tubulin micro-tubes,
rather like vines growing in a slow motion nature clip. Once a micro-
tube guided filament is close enough to other, a synapse forms. This
gross-scale wiring growth is one method of memory formation. Another
gross-scale effect is myelination. Myelin is the insulation the body uses
on nerves cells, including nerve cells in the brain. It looks a bit like the
insulation we used in the 1930s. Before the invention of plastic, strips of
waxed canvas were wrapped around wires to provide insulation. Myelin

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015808
