significant credit issues for the banks as weaker firms (who are clients) will be better
positioned to sell themselves to the tech behemoths looking for innovative ideas.

Catalysts: 1) Improving expectations around rising rates (on back of better macro-
economic data) will continue to serve as a tailwind for the stock 2) A strong tech IPO
market — as SIVB stands to benefit from equity exposure to 1000+ start-up companies
3) Clarity around a tax reform bill once the new administration takes office in January
should lead to the markets pricing-in a lift to forward EPS and 4) updated 2017
guidance could reflect a stronger outlook vs. management’s preliminary guidance
provided in Oct 2016.

Latest report: On its way to regaining its premium multiple

1Q risks: Downside risks are 1) reversal in the outlook for higher rates 2) a sharp sell-
off in the equity markets that could derail IPO activity and 3) disappointment on the
pace of policy actions under the new administration.

Company Description: SVB Financial Group is a financial holding company that serves
companies in the technology, life science, venture capital, private equity and premium
wine industries. The bank offers diversified financial services such as commercial,
investment, international and private banking. Headquartered in Santa Clara, California,
SVB Financial Group (Nasdaq: SIVB) operates through offices in the U.S. and
international operations in China, India, Israel and the United Kingdom.

Texas Instruments (TXN)

Vivek Arya +1 646 855 1755
Research Analyst, MLPF&S

Buy, PO $82

1Q investment thesis

In the aftermath of the US election in November, we think Texas Instruments stands to
benefit the most with its 30% effective tax rate and high exposure to industrial,
automotive, automation, and communications capex. The company has been one of the
largest share gainers in industrial/auto semis entering a seasonally strong period for
spending. Unlike peers, Texas instruments has no distraction from M&A while
maintaining a grossly under-levered balance sheet (<0.1x net debt/EBITDA vs comps at
2x-4x). We expect TXN to continue to generate industry leading FCF while growing its
dividend at 20%+ CAGR. We look toward the strategy update call in early February as
the next catalyst for the stock.

Table 1: Texas Instruments key stock data

Industry Semiconductors
Market Cap (mn) $73,899
Price $74.15
P/E (2017) 20.1x
% of sell-side rated Buy 35.3%
Short interest % of float 1.75%

Source: Bloomberg and BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research estimates

Deregulation/Gov't Legislation: 60% of TXN’s sales are exposed to the industrial,
automotive, and communications equipment end markets. We think these markets could

Bankof America <>
Merrill Lynch Top 10 US Ideas Quarterly | 03 January 2017) 13

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014634
