schoolchild might sleep with a teacher;

* Facilitating support groups, so members can share tactics for negotiating safer sex (or,
if already HIV-positive, help each other cope with obligations and treatment regimens);

* Creating strong communities, so people are quite simply more motivated to live.

KK Ok

It's always tempting to see unfamiliar cultures as monolithic, but we must remind
ourselves that they never are. Every society in the world contains its own divides, just
like America's culture and subcultures. Because HIV/AIDS functions along the very
taboo, very culturally-influenced axis of sexuality, it throws taboo cultural sexual divides
into high relief.

In America, one thing the disease's advent served to highlight was stigma towards
LGBTQ and other radical sexual subcultures. American HIV mitigation has often sought
to redress that stigma. Here, one thing it serves to highlight -- one thing mitigation seeks
to redress -- is mainstream gender and relationship issues. But these splits existed before
HIV came along. Although the prevalence of HIV sheds light on and invokes compassion
for these divisions, they're more enduring than we like to think.

Still, I can't help noticing the phoenixes arising from these ashes. Firstly, it turns out that
the best way to shut down sex-negative arguments against explicit sex education is to
invoke the specter of HIV. One 2008 report from a well-respected local organization
argued that AIDS prevention efforts should include straightforward lessons on
pleasurable acts, such as oral sex or sex toy usage! (Obviously, I hope to work with this
organization.)

A 2004 New York Times Magazine article on HIV in southern Africa made the case that
while many experts contend that sexual-behavior change in Africa is complicated
because women's fear of abusive partners inhibits private discussions of sex, condom use
and HIV, the crisis also contributes to a better environment for those discussions. One
researcher is quoted pointing out that, young South Africans are much more likely to
talk about sex and are developing 'a vocabulary for discussing feelings and desires.”
Furthermore, southern African movements for women's empowerment invariably cite
HIV as a reason change is necessary now. Because gender oppression is acknowledged as
a driver of the epidemic, gender equality is an explicit goal of both governments and
major HIV organizations. Even admirably reasonable laws about sex work are being
discussed -- considerably more reasonable than most Western sex work legislation. The
laws probably won't pass, unfortunately, but at least they're on the radar.

I've got a twisted confession to make. On days when I feel particularly flippant, I find
myself thinking: Thank God for HIV/AIDS! Without HIV... would women's
empowerment be such a given? Aside from bleeding heart feminists like myself, who
would care about sex workers' conditions? Aside from sex-positive nuts like myself, who
would advocate for explicit sex education?

Here's hoping we can create better social conditions to arrest the pandemic... and keep
those conditions going afterwards.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018593
