The president and his son-in-law could barely contain their confidence and enthusiasm.
They felt certain that they had set out on the road to peace in the Middle East—and in this,
they were much like a number of other administrations that had come before them.

Trump was effusive in his praise for Kushner. “Jared’s gotten the Arabs totally on our
side. Done deal,” he assured one of his after-dinner callers before leaving on the trip. “It’s
going to be beautiful.”

“He believed,” said the caller, “that this trip could pull it out, like a twist in a bad
movie.”

OOK Ok

On the empty roads of Riyadh, the presidential motorcade passed billboards with pictures
of Trump and the Saudi king (MBS’s eighty-one-year-old father) with the legend
TOGETHER WE PREVAIL.

In part, the president’s enthusiasm seemed to be born out of—or perhaps had caused—
a substantial exaggeration of what had actually been agreed to during the negotiations
ahead of the trip. In the days before his departure, he was telling people that the Saudis
were going to finance an entirely new military presence in the kingdom, supplanting and
even replacing the U.S. command headquarters in Qatar. And there would be “the biggest
breakthrough in Israel-Palestine negotiations ever.” It would be “the game changer, major
like has never been seen.”

In truth, his version of what would be accomplished was a quantum leap beyond what
was actually agreed, but that did not seem to alter his feelings of zeal and delight.

The Saudis would immediately buy $110 billion’s worth of American arms, and a total
of $350 billion over ten years. “Hundreds of billions of dollars of investments into the
United States and jobs, jobs, jobs,” declared the president. Plus, the Americans and the
Saudis would together “counter violent extremist messaging, disrupt financing of
terrorism, and advance defense cooperation.” And they would establish a center in Riyadh
to fight extremism. And if this was not exactly peace in the Middle East, the president,
according to the secretary of state, “feels like there’s a moment in time here. The
president’s going to talk with Netanyahu about the process going forward. He’s going to
be talking to President Abbas about what he feels is necessary for the Palestinians to be
successful.”

It was all a Trumpian big deal. Meanwhile, the First Family—POTUS, FLOTUS, and
Jared and Ivanka—were ferried around in gold golf carts, and the Saudis threw a $75
million party in Trump’s honor, with Trump getting to sit on a thronelike chair. (The
president, while receiving an honor from the Saudi king, appeared in a photograph to have
bowed, arousing some right-wing ire.)

Fifty Arab and Muslim nations were summoned by the Saudis to pay the president

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020057
