154 Teaching Minds

look like a genius. But what actually makes us feel that a scientist’s
accurate predictions make him smart is the reasoning behind those
predictions, the causal explanation.

We can see how intelligence, or the lack of it, is perceived by
people and we must begin to reconsider how intelligence should be
measured by those trying to put numbers to mental abilities. And, we
can see why those Palin supporters seem so dumb. Let’s look at one of
them again:

Interviewer: What do you think she would bring in terms of
policy to office?

Young woman: Good judgment.

Interviewer: Any specifics?

Young woman: I think she would control the out-of-control
spending.

This is a prediction. The question is what this prediction is based on. It
is a good guess that the young woman cannot cite examples of Palin’s
good judgment and has no idea whether Palin was able to control
spending in Alaska. If she were able to cite examples, that is, if her
predictions were supported by evidence that she clearly articulated,
we would, in fact, think that the young woman was smart. Perhaps
she is smart and perhaps the interviewer deliberately cut out those
responses. It seems unlikely, given the weird “czar” remark that fol-
lowed this, but the point is that we seek such evidence when we make
a judgment about someone’s intelligence.

What about planning? Those who make bad plans are usually
laughed at. Criminals who get caught by doing something dumb are
always made fun of by the press. Bad planning makes a person look
stupid.

Bad judgment, on the other hand, is more easily forgiven. When
you make a mistake, you can always claim to have used bad judgment.
Make the same mistake again and you begin to look stupid.

So, if we are interested in making people more intelligent, as op-
posed to more knowledgeable, it is clear that we need to redefine what
we mean by intelligence.

Intelligence is the ability to diagnose well, to plan well, and to
be able to understand what causes what. To do this one must be able
to reassess one’s belief system when new evidence is presented and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023900
