Freedom House

becomes suspect, and national security takes
precedence over the benefits of global integra-
tion.

e Foreign aggression: The revival of Russia as a
military power has been a central goal of Putin's
leadership. He increased troop levels, devoted
billions of dollars to equipment modernization,
and instituted a series of reforms designed to
enable the military to engage in several limited
conflicts simultaneously. To compensate for the
material advantages of the United States and
NATO, the Russian military developed a strategic
approach known as hybrid warfare, which seeks
to combine conventional tactics, espionage and
subversion, cyberattacks, and propaganda so as
to limit the role of traditional battlefield opera-
tions and, where possible, sow confusion as to
who is responsible for the aggression and how
it should be dealt with. The strategy has been
put into action in Ukraine, and intrusive Russian
patrols have also harassed foreign navies and
air forces across Northern Europe. In Georgia,
Russian troops have constantly encroached on
the Tbilisi government by simply moving border
fences encircling the Russian-backed separatist
region of South Ossetia.

China has also engaged in a massive military
buildup, and is pressing its maritime territorial
claims with huge fleets of coast guard vessels
and new island bases that bristle with arma-
ments. Its tactics at sea are openly aggressive,
but stop just short of the sort of action that
might trigger live fire.

lran has long cultivated indirect methods of for-
eign aggression, particularly through the covert
equipping and training of allied Shiite militias

in Arab states. In recent years, however, it has
openly deployed these militias in large num-
bers—overseen on the front lines by high-ranking
lranian officers—to battle zones in Syria and Iraq,
and it has increasingly drawn on Afghan recruits
in addition to Arabs. lran’s regional rivals, chiefly
Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, have
responded with more direct foreign interventions
of their own, most notably in Yemen.

The recent embrace of more overtly repressive policies
stems in part from the common structural flaws of the
modern authoritarian model. The question of succes-

sion in authoritarian governments is a constant source

of tension, producing crises—such as Putin's return to
the presidency after his circumvention of term limits in
2012—that require new crackdowns on dissent.

Moreover, because these regimes do not allow
peaceful rotations of power through elections, they
rely in large part on the promise of economic growth
as a source of legitimacy. However, they also feature
systemic corruption as a means of maintaining inter-
nal cohesion. All of this leaves them ill-equipped to
cope with economic shocks and related public anger.
The global economic downturn of 2008 and the more
recent crop in energy prices have shaken economies
and political establishments around the world, but
while citizens of democracies can take their frus-

trations to the ballot box, authoritarian rulers must
treat protests against austerity or unemployment as
existential threats.

The promise of national greatness and the menace
of external enemies are tried-and-true alternatives
to economic prosperity as sources of regime legiti-
macy. Unfortunately, promoting these narratives also
generates new cycles of dissent and repression, and
damages ties with the outside world, further under-
mining the economy.

Atransition from bad to worse

While the return to the blunt instruments of the past
suggests a fundamental weakness in the modern
authoritarianism model, it would be a mistake to con-
clude that these regimes are doomed to extinction.
The emergence of this model was in fact a remarkable
demonstration of adaptability on the part of author-
itarian rulers, who faced a uniquely inhospitable en-
vironment in the years after the end of the Cold War.
Democracy, human rights, and the rule of law were
newly ascendant as the governing principles of the
international order, and undemocratic leaders made
the changes necessary to survive without surrender-
ing their political dominance.

f they are now reversing some of these changes, it

is not just because the basic structures and incen-
tives of authoritarian rule tend to encourage greater
repression over time. It is also because the external
pressure to conform to democratic standards is rapid-
ly disappearing.

Leading democracies have absorbed the economic
blows of recent years without revolution or repres-
sion, but voter frustration has increasingly lifted up
antiestablishment, populist, and nationalist politicians

www.freedomhouse.org

55

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019289
