Edwards adv. Epstein
Telephone interview with Virginia Roberts
Page 10 of 23

JS: From the time the massage started. Ok.

V: Sometimes we'd go there and I would wait for a while or talk with Ghislaine and Jeffrey
about something or we’d meet somewhere and talk about something. A lot of times, I’d
meet him upstairs in his room where he was ready for me. But then there was a lot of
times where it didn’t start right away, so he couldn’t really pay me from the time I got
there sometimes unless it was just paid from the time I massaged him til the time the
massage was over.

JS: Alright. Did your duties for Jeffrey ever include anything other than providing him
massages and sex in connection with the massages? Did he ever give you any other
responsibilities to perform?

V: I was asked to do the same things that I did to Jeffrey to a few of his fellow colleagues as
well. Those were my duties. He looked at it this way is that I was going to be a

professional massage therapist, and maybe I needed some clientele, so he had me perform
erotic massages on a few people.

JS: Did that start here in Palm Beach County?
V: It did. The first one did.

JS: Ok, and how long after you first met Jeffrey did he first ask you to provide services for
one of his friends?

V: About 9 months, I think it was. It wasn’t a full year, it wasn’t 6 months, but between 6
months and a year, which is why I’m saying 9 months.

JS: | And when you provided services to a friend of Jeffrey’s, who paid you for those services?

V: Jeffrey would. I would get paid the next time I saw Jeffrey, so if I was invited to the
Breakers Hotel to give a massage, I would give a massage, I would go home, and the next
day when I saw Jeffrey, he would pay me for what I did. So, it was paid always by him,
it was set up by him, so he always knew what to pay me. I did get tips and things like
that, if you call it that, you know, like a hundred dollar tip or something from a few of
them, you know, yeah.

JS: Was there ..

V: There was always payment from Jeffrey.

JS: Was there ever any discussion with Jeffrey about what was expected to happen when you
provided massage services to one of Jeffrey’s friends?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015565
