This is the year many of the 78 million Baby Boomers go back to the
theaters. Five small budget independent films become surprise hits as
each exceeds $100 million.

The Social Network now cements its battle cry with one word;
relevance. Mark Zuckerberg lands on the cover of Time Magazine as The
Person of the Year. A smart and extensive ad campaign positions the film
in the lead. Critics and pundits proclaim the race is over. The Social
Network is the clear winner. Everyone goes on holiday.

This is probably the only time in Harvey Weinstein's life that he is
caught off guard. He quickly mobilizes an inner team of 15 and conducts
strategy meetings 7 days a week, including Christmas. They become like a
Chinese Restaurant...always open. A generational war is in full swing.
Harvey screens his film for the older voters. Everything is done by the
books. Budgets are limited. He sends screenwriter David Seidler and Tom
Hoooper to every corner of the country doing g+ta's till they are blue in
the face from finding their voice. SAG voters begin seeing the film 2
and 3 times.

In January the Golden Globes voted on by about 88 foreign journalists
gives Best Drama to The Social Network, Best Director to David Fincher
and Best Screenplay to Aaron Sorkin. Their film is still perceived as
the Oscar winner.

Team Weinstein underestimates their hard work and is in shock when The
King's Speech wins the PGA in L.A. Harvey doesn’t even attend and is
working in Sundance. They are equally surprised when Tom Hooper wins the
DGA and the actors win the SAG Ensemble. The BAFTAs reinforced the
lead. They are now the front runner. It takes the media a few weeks to
catch on.

The Daily Mail announces Her Royal Highness, Queen Elizabeth has enjoyed
a private screening of “The King’s Speech” and is moved by the film.
With no proof the Queen has actually seen the film, the Weinstein
Company sends out a global press release thanking her Majesty for the
endorsement. They also acknowledge Prime Minister David Cameron’s
private Christmas screening.

On Oscar night, it isn't until Hilary Swank surprisingly yells out
Hooper's name for Best Director that Harvey's gang finally realizes they
are getting the Oscar for Best Picture. The King has spoken.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012692
