Date: Thu, Apr 28, 2016 at 5:16 PM

Subject: Valuation Discount

To: jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com>

I am attaching a draft response from Empire Valuation as to why it arrived at a valuation discount on the
low end. Let’s discuss the response and next steps. Thanks. Alan

Date: Wed, Nov 9, 2016 at 10:27 PM
Subject:
To: Melanie Spinella iii >
sorry, I can call on thurs or sit face to face fri afternoon. . I will be in ny until monday morning.
decisions- questions good news . I have a really elegant solution for most of the following, 1 gift tax.
cash or in kind. 2.1031. 3 fire drill brh traetc. 4. xxxx 5. 8865s.
tax planing running out of time. . 7 restructure office. barry? brad told me he thought you had
acknowledged high value this year. gift tax audit etc., . April, Oct. . returns. manage joslin , who is
still running your tax dept .

you and I need not rehash old postures, its tedious - I would ask that you tell me if you intend to pay
for the work that was done, and for the work you expect to be done, . thanks

Date: Tue, Nov 15, 2016 at 12:13 PM

Subject: Fwd:

To: Melanie Spinella -  —COS@

Leon, Congragulations on biting the bullet. at least 18 months late , but I m encouraged and glad for
you. When you interviewed Brad two years ago you asked that i not tell him what a disaster lay before
him. what would you like me to tell Barry?

There is a HUGE amount of work to be done in the next 9 -12 months. mostly the exact same work
that i outlined in my email of 2 years ago. now complicated by years of mess on top. ( you can send it
again if you like ). Brad wechsler was never up to the task . sorry, I realize I have been saying the very
same thing for a long time. he was a not a step up from Eileen but a step sideways. in the beginning
there was Eileen and Tom and Ralph Lerner. all your hand picks. then brad. john, Joe. . joslin was
chosen from a pool of 2 people. each that would be limited by a salary of 250k. ( yes 1 personally
augmented his comp in order to get him ) I did say hire both Lisa to do the bookkeeping and joslin tax,

He complained for over a year , re his direction by eileen and ada , and then brad. His breakdown was
not a surprise after months and moths of warnings. Though disabled, he ran your office this year. with
john and joe. He ran amok, and as i told you he rarely failed to remind me in our conversations that you
told him that he works for you and not for me and that brad needs to pays him .

. Asking me who to hire , estate attny tax people etc. :

I have taken heat for years over the fact that i gave you no more than carlyns name, . no follow up
questions no interactions , not even one single question asked of me re her work. (that was Eileen _)
but somehow carlyns fuck up was my doing. . _ when 1 told you that i thought Eileen wasn't up to the
task, you bellowed that i was talking out of both sides of my mouth. . You told me this year , that by
trying to protect you from crazy joslin, I had in essence fired him and it was my responsibility to do his
work. it then turns out that he didn't consider himself fired at all he just received less money. and
continued to make a really dangerous mess.. Joshn castrucci, in your eyes , was also my doing , though
email after email said , I take no responsibility for him,and 1YOU SHOULD NOT HIRE HIM |!!! , your
response was that was my opinion was only because i didn't trust him. then to add insult to injury last jan
you told me he was gone. however he too is still there, and a waste of money and space.

My time is complicated by Donald's potentially eviscerating any reason for anyone to use the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023251
