The vocabulary can also include the standard distinction among stocks, flows and
rates. These are only definitions, not assumptions. Stocks means value measured in
money units, say dollars. This is not the same as stock in the sense of equity
securities, although those can be examples. Flows means processes such as output
for consumption measured in dollars per unit time. Flows are to stocks as verbs to
nouns. Percent rates are flows divided by stocks, as rate of return or growth rate,

and are measured in pure numbers over time such as 5% per year.

Now for the fundamental theorems. Take the present value rule first. It starts from
the axiom that we satisfy convergent tastes in the light of convergent predictions. In
a simple case, we foresee that an asset (stock) is likely to yield a certain amount of
taste satisfaction flow at a certain future time. We discount that expected amount at
a time preference or time discount rate given by our taste for impatience, tempered
by our taste for risk avoidance, to find its present value. Present value of the whole

asset is the sum of present values of all the expected future satisfactions together.

A more general case allows for transfers. The future events we foresee and discount
are not always exhaust in taste satisfaction by ourselves at the time. Some might be
foreseen liquidations to reinvest in other assets or to give away so that we or the
donee can realize the taste satisfaction later. Either reinvestment or gift is called

transfer. I call it “transfer out”, meaning out from the generating asset. Then

transfer out = reinvestment + gift. (3.1)

There can also be transfer in. Sometimes future realizations, in taste satisfaction or
transfer out, are not explained as production by the asset as it is now. The asset
might grow later by new investment from outside, and the investment in between
might help explain the later yield. If an eighth-grader is destined to become a doctor,
for example, her foreseen earnings as a doctor will presuppose investment in high

school and college and med school in between.

Chapter 3: Foundations 1/11/16 10

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010981
