InsightsPod

Target Market

Our target market will range from individuals, political parties, well-known
businesses e.g. McDonalds, Nike, Apple, and government institutions needing
information on any particular areas of concern.

Businesses, such as the aforementioned, have a huge social media presence on a global
level. This is essential and effective in being able to communicate information to a mass
of consumers, both current and potential, and to receive feedback faster than you would
via other means of communication. However, with such global exposure combined
with the speed of social media, the brand image and company reputation of these
businesses is now more vulnerable to change than ever before. There are many
examples from the past that can be cited in which negative tweets about companies
products, services, and even marketing strategies, went viral causing a huge onslaught
of negative public opinion, thus, having an adverse effect on the company in question.

In a similar fashion, government institutions have also been the victim of negative
public sentiment posted online on various social media platforms directly affecting
political parties and their reputations, and the number of votes in a particular party's
favour (on both local and national levels).

The stock market is malleable and is affected by global consensus in various circles of
interest, therefore, an investor keeps a close eye on that consensus when it comes to
making profitable trades and investment decisions. An ill-informed investment decision
made based on inaccurate information on global consensus could result in huge losses
for an investor. Clearly, the problems our target clients face are all similar in nature and,
in one way or another, affect each other.

Competition
Current Alternatives

Competition does exist in the industry InsightsPod is operating in. IBM Watson
Analytics, Lexalytics, and Falcon.IO are some of our competitors. However, we have an

| Page 6 |

CONFIDENTIAL - DO NOT DISSEMINATE. This business plan contains confidential, trade-secret
information and is shared only with the understanding that you will not share its contents or ideas with
third parties without the express written consent of the plan author.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028823
