Now, however reluctantly, Ailes understood that, at least for the moment, he was
passing the right-wing torch to Bannon. It was a torch that burned bright with ironies.
Ailes’s Fox News, with its $1.5 billion in annual profits, had dominated Republican
politics for two decades. Now Bannon’s Breitbart News, with its mere $1.5 million in
annual profits, was claiming that role. For thirty years, Ailes—until recently the single
most powerful person in conservative politics—had humored and tolerated Donald Trump,
but in the end Bannon and Breitbart had elected him.

Six months before, when a Trump victory still seemed out of the realm of the possible,
Ailes, accused of sexual harassment, was cashiered from Fox News in a move engineered
by the liberal sons of conservative eighty-five-year-old Rupert Murdoch, the controlling
shareholder of Fox News and the most powerful media owner of the age. Ailes’s downfall
was cause for much liberal celebration: the greatest conservative bugbear in modern
politics had been felled by the new social norm. Then Trump, hardly three months later,
accused of vastly more louche and abusive behavior, was elected president.

OOK Ok

Ailes enjoyed many things about Trump: his salesmanship, his showmanship, his gossip.
He admired Trump’s sixth sense for the public marketplace—or at least the relentlessness
and indefatigability of his ceaseless attempts to win it over. He liked Trump’s game. He
liked Trump’s impact and his shamelessness. “He just keeps going,” Ailes had marveled to
a friend after the first debate with Hillary Clinton. “You hit Donald along the head, and he
keeps going. He doesn’t even know he’s been hit.”

But Ailes was convinced that Trump had no political beliefs or backbone. The fact that
Trump had become the ultimate avatar of Fox’s angry common man was another sign that
we were living in an upside-down world. The joke was on somebody—and Ailes thought
it might be on him.

Still, Ailes had been observing politicians for decades, and in his long career he had
witnessed just about every type and style and oddity and confection and cravenness and
mania. Operatives like himself—and now, like Bannon—worked with all kinds. It was the
ultimate symbiotic and codependent relationship. Politicians were front men in a complex
organizational effort. Operatives knew the game, and so did most candidates and
officeholders. But Ailes was pretty sure Trump did not. Trump was undisciplined—he had
no capacity for any game plan. He could not be a part of any organization, nor was he
likely to subscribe to any program or principle. In Ailes’s view, he was “a rebel without a
cause.” He was simply “Donald”—as though nothing more need be said.

In early August, less than a month after Ailes had been ousted from Fox News, Trump
asked his old friend to take over the management of his calamitous campaign. Ailes,
knowing Trump’s disinclination to take advice, or even listen to it, turned him down. This
was the job Bannon took a week later.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019884
