https://www.sun-sentinel.com/news/politics/fl-ne-jeffrey-epstein-alex-acosta-investigation-
20181204-story.html.

The Post has also persisted with its own investigation into whether the Manhattan District
Attorney’s Office was unduly lenient when it advocated in favor of registering Epstein as a level
one sex offender. On December 1, 2018, the Post published an article entitled “Manhattan DA
sided with pedophile billionaire after botching investigation.” Jd. Ex. C. Following up on its
prior reporting, the Post reported Justice Pickholz’s denial of ADA Gaffney’s efforts to register
Epstein as a level one offender and then asked the District Attorney’s Office to account for the
“mishandling of the Epstein hearing.” Jd. In response to questions from the Post, the District
Attorney’s Office insisted that ADA Gaffney simply “made a mistake.” Jd. A spokesman also
claimed that Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance “‘was not aware’ of the hearing until
years later and had nothing to do with it.” Jd. But, as the Post also reported, “[s]ome law
enforcement sources don’t believe Vance had no clue that his office had a sex-offender case
involving a Manhattan mogul with close ties to Democrats.” Jd.

Unsealing of the First Department appeal briefs in this case is crucial so that the public
and the press may more fully understand why Epstein was initially offered level one offender
status despite the overwhelming evidence that he was a serial sexual abuser of children.

D. The Post’s Efforts to Obtain the Appellate Briefing Filed with the First Department

On December 4, 2018, Post reporter Sue Edelman contacted the Director of
Communications for District Attorney Cyrus Vance, Jr. and requested a copy of the appellate
brief filed by the District Attorney’s Office. Jd. {9 6-8. In making this request, Edelman
specifically stated that the District Attorney’s Office could redact the names of any victims of
sexual abuse before forwarding the brief. Jd. Edelman’s request was denied, however, because
the District Attorney’s Office has taken the position that the brief was filed under seal in its

8
4811-3721-9459v.3 3930033-000039

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016495
