So we should say it coldly: We have, as of yet, no strategy. We have no shared
picture of the world as it might be. You. Me. Our leaders. None of us. And the
experience of other, fast-collapsed empires should way on us. “The struggle to
survive,” the historian John Darwin has written of the British Empire, “was waged in
an age of revolution: a Eurasian revolution that cumulatively (but very quickly)
destroyed almost all the global preconditions on which the British system had
depended since the 1830s.” So in our age. Many of the essential determinants of
American power are being revolutionized by new, connected forces. The world syste
will change in coming years. Our only question is will the changes reduce us as they
once shrunk Britain, or will we draw on them to establish a longer, more durable
system. At the moment, in a time of fascinating explosions of ideas and insights and
connection, the American foreign policy approach is deeply and strangely unplugged
from these risks and possibilities. The world has changed - is changing profoundly -
from the one in which most students and practitioners of international affairs were
educated. And here’s the reality: Nothing can stop this change. The last two decades
have brought massive and persuasive change in so many disciplines. And in foreign
policy? In the consideration of problems of war and peace which, if not handled
properly will rain tragedy on every other effort we might have in mind? Not much
has changed. Except this: A growing sentiment of pessimism that suggests maybe
America can’t hold on. Great powers get one century to rule, the logic goes, and
America’s is now up.

It’s not merely that we lack a “China Strategy” or a “Middle East Strategy”, it’s that
we've failed to discern an overall grand strategy that would produce a coherent
answer to the question of what to do about China or the Middle East - to say nothing
of how those forces might be played off another with clever diplomatic harmony like
instruments in a symphony. It is hard to know if this puzzlement represents a failure
of imagination or of nerve. Does it mark arrogance or confusion? Or just an
ignorance of the profound, revolutionary nature of the forces now at work?

Today when leading officials remark that their main concern is a rising China or
revanchist Russia or that we live in a world where, as Secretary of State John Kerry
said, “terrorism is the principal challenge,” they are missing the point. The
fundamental threat to American interests isn’t China or Al Qaeda or Iran. It is the
evolution of the network itself. Constructed of switches, chips, data, code, exploits,
sensors, AI bots, financial instruments, trade, currency and more, the network is
itself a weapons system. Its architecture, a wonderfully humming maze of change
and contagion and instability, determines its terrifying dangers and marks its vast
opportunities®. It touches - decisively - each and any particular problem we would
care to name.

64 “The struggle to survive”: John Darwin, The Empire Project, (Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 2009) 477

65 Its architecture: For an excellent overview on the politics of contagion, see Tony
D. Sampson, Virality, (University of Minnesota Press, 2012)

50

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018282
