To hear the Epstein camp tell it, Reiter, 48, is a loose cannon better suited to be the
sheriff of Mayberry. They whisper that he's embroiled in a messy divorce.

Reiter did in fact file for divorce from his wife, (NAME REMOVED), last year, after 24
years of marriage. They have a son, 18, and a daughter, 14. The couple is scheduled to go
to mediation next week, Aug. 16. Nothing in the court file suggests their split is
particularly ugly.

Reiter incurred the wrath of the Epstein camp as well as the state attorney's office for two
reasons. First, he pressed for Epstein to be charged with the more serious crimes of
sexual activity with minors. Second, he slammed State Attorney Barry Krischer in blunt
language seldom used by one law-enforcement official concerning another because of
what he perceived as that office's mishandling of the case.

In a letter to Krischer written May 1, Reiter called his actions in the Epstein case highly
unusual. He added, I must urge you to... consider if good and sufficient reason exists to
require your disqualification from the prosecution of these cases. In short, Reiter told
the county's top prosecutor for the past 13 years that he ought to get off the case. It
looks like a departure from professionalism, Miami-Dade State Attorney Katherine
Fernandez Rundle said of Reiter's letter.

Following Epstein's indictment, Reiter referred the case to the FBI to determine whether
the super-rich, super-connected defendant had violated any federal laws. Reiter won't
discuss the case or the broadsides aimed at him. But others almost uniformly use one
word to describe the chief: professional.

I have always been impressed by Mike's professionalism and his leadership, said Rick
Lincoln, chief of the Lantana Police Department and a Palm Beach County cop for 32
years. The town of Palm Beach has a very professional police department. We all
consider Mike to be our peer and a man of integrity. Juno Beach Police Chief H.C.
Clark II agreed. Although he doesn't know Reiter well, he has met with him on
countywide law enforcement issues. I've never seen him lose his cool. I've never seen
anything but a professional demeanor from him.

Reiter joined the Palm Beach Police Department in 1981, leaving a $20,000-a-year patrol
job at the University of Pittsburgh. His personnel jacket shows consistently excellent job
evaluations. Posh Palm Beach is no hotbed of crime, and in his first year on the job, a
resident confined to his home with a sick child thanked Reiter for delivering a few Cokes
to the house. Reiter refused payment for the beverages. Another resident thanked Reiter
for shutting off his car's headlights in his driveway, saying a valet must have been at
fault. Reiter worked everything from road patrol to organized crime, vice and narcotics.

And he's no novice at investigations involving the island's rich and famous. He was the
lead detective probing the drug overdose death of David Kennedy in 1984. He also was
one of the officers who worked the investigation of William Kennedy Smith, who was
charged in 1991 — and later acquitted — with raping a woman at the Kennedy family
compound in Palm Beach.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021782
