4.2.12
WC: 191694

We then discussed “The Front” and I told him that my father knew Zero Mosel—the star of the
film—whose relative had a store on the lower east side near my father’s. We discussed
“blacklisting,” “McCarthyism” and other subjects in which we shared a common interest. It was a
great birthday present.

Several years later Woody and his then girlfriend, Mia Farrow, came to hear me speak in New
York about the Rosenberg trial. I had written a positive book review for The New York Times
about a book which had concluded that Julius Rosenberg had indeed been a Soviet spy. This is
how I began my review:

WERE Julius and Ethel Rosenberg guilty of transmitting American atomic secrets to the
Soviet Union in the 1940's, or were they scapegoats of the cold war whose execution was
a grave miscarriage of justice? That both are true is the intriguing argument of [the new
book.]

Woody and Mia both insisted that the Rosenberg’s were innocent and I promised to send them
the evidence that Julius was a spy and Ethel a collaborator if not a conspirator.

Over the next several years I saw Woody and Mia on a few occasions. Mia called me a few times
to discuss political issues and Woody and I wrote to each other.

Then everything changed. Early one morning, Mia called. We exchanged pleasantries and I
asked her how Woody was. “He’s abusing my children,” she said. I replied, “Don’t even joke
about that, it’s not funny.” She said, “no, really. He’s been sleeping with one of my daughters
and acting inappropriately with another one.” I again asked her if she was serious, since the
allegations seemed so out of character. She told me she was dead serious and asked if I could
drive down to her house in Connecticut and meet with her. I told her I would, and that I would
bring my wife, who is a PhD psychologist with extensive experience in such matters.

We drove to Connecticut and Mia greeted us. She was fixing a leaky roof while trying to take
care of her numerous children, including a blind girl and a crack baby, who she had adopted. She
told me that Woody had started an affair with her adopted Korean daughter, Soon-Yi. I asked
her how old Soon-Yi was and she told me nobody knew for sure because she was adopted when
she was a baby and she could be anywhere from 17 to 19. She then told me that Woody had been
seen by one of the nannies touching her year old daughter, Dylan, in an inappropriate way.
She also told me that Dylan had told her that Woody had taken her up to an attic crawl space
where he had also touched her inappropriately. She showed me the crawl space. She also
showed me naked Polaroids that Woody had taken of Soon Yi, that she had found in Woody’s
apartment, along I with a naked photo of Dylan. My wife Carolyn then had a conversation with
Dylan about her relationship with Woody.

I was shocked beyond belief and asked how I could help. Here was yet another example of a
celebrity putting his own desire for immediate gratification above the needs of his long time lover
and her family. Even if only the allegations regarding Mia’s adopted daughter, Soon Yi, were

283

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017370
