by the dreamer is almost always in REM Sleep, rarely in NREM Sleep. (Why is a continuing question.)
“Lucid Dreaming” is a new area of fascinating research. Lucid Dreaming is where the dreamer “knows” that
he/she is dreaming while dreaming (a talent that a small minority possesses but more can be
trained/developed). Lucid dreamers, while sleeping, can now communicate with experimenters by altering
their brain activity and thus becoming detectable by neuroimaging techniques (see below).

Neuroimaging. Finally, neuroimaging technology has enabled many of these breakthroughs. As such, it is
itself a methodological breakthrough that has enabled these other content breakthroughs. Neuroimaging now
enables detailed location of the neuroanatomy and neurophysiology of REM and NREM Sleep. In

REM Sleep, the dorsolateral, frontal cortex is “down-regulated”, whereas the limbic system is “up-
regulated”, showing the physiological basis for the emotional, wild-fantasies of dreams (see above).
(Neuroimaging will enable good visual images for the TV series without extra costs.)

Patrick stresses that while these breakthroughs form, for the first time, a solid foundation for understanding
sleep and dreams, they also open opportunities to dig deeper into the “purpose” of sleep and dreams, as well
as engender a new series of questions and directions (e.g., clinical treatments of illnesses).

Attached is Patrick’s quick compiling of summaries of a few recent leading research papers (2009 — 2017,
especially 2015-2017).

You’d enjoy speaking with him, if you want.
Love to do this series together with you.
Much appreciate and warm regards,

Robert

please note
The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of
JEE
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited
and may be unlawful. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and
destroy this communication and all copies thereof,
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved

please note

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025113
