And just like that, I'd lost. It's what I was looking for, of course. But my body -- my hard-
fighting, adrenaline-drenched body -- reacted by exploding into terrible panic.... I did
not enjoy it in the way a person getting screwed normally would. But as it became clear
that I could endure it, I started to take deeper breaths. And my mind stayed there, stayed
present even when it became painful.... My body felt devastated but relieved; I'd lost, but
survived. After he climbed off me, he gathered me up in his arms. I broke into a thousand
pieces on his chest, sobbing so hard that my ribs felt like they were coming loose.

... Lsaac pulled my hair away from my wet face, repeating over and over and over
something that he probably believed but that I had to relearn. You are so strong, he
said. You are so strong. You are so strong.

Sounds extremely familiar to me.

Now, it's not like I have BDSM encounters like that all the time; indeed, experiences of
that type are relatively rare for me. But the reporter's description doesn't sound far
different from what I've experienced. Certainly not incomprehensible. There's only
one big difference, actually: I've never had such an intense BDSM experience in which
my partner also had penis-in-vagina sex with me. (I'm assuming the reporter means
penis-in-vagina sex when she talks about getting screwed, but I could be wrong.)

Honestly, I'm not sure why I would want to combine vaginal sex with an experience like
that. Vaginal sex strikes me, personally, as kinda incidental to what I'd get out of it. But
maybe I'll try it sometime and it'll be the greatest thing in the world; we'll see, I guess.

Sometimes I find that I've still got aBDSM versus sex distinction to work out, although
I seem to have comfortably settled into the frameworks I've created. One of my very first
blog entries, back in 2008, was called Casual Sex? Casual Kink?, and I spent the whole
thing musing about whether I was more or less okay with casual BDSM than I was with
casual sex.

These days, I find that I'm kinda okay with both casual sex and casual BDSM, but I much
prefer those experiences within intimate relationships. Make no mistake, my friends:
BDSM can include a great deal of love and connection... at least as much as sex.

To hammer the point home, let me tell you about what happened after I broke up with a
much-beloved ex-boyfriend: Mr. Inferno. It was back when I was very focused on being
monogamous with my partners. Mr. Inferno broke up with me, and a month or two later I
had the chance to have an overnight BDSM encounter with another man, so I took it.
There was no genital contact; the whole encounter was limited to this guy giving me
orders, and hurting me until I cried.

But I remember, even as I slipped into the familiar emotional cycle, that I couldn't let go:
I couldn't let go because I felt like I was betraying Mr. Inferno. He'd broken my heart, but
on some level I felt like I still belonged to him. It was wrong, wrong, wrong for me to cry
in someone else's arms. The wrongness rang through me like a bell. It was so impossible,
unbearable -- all I could think was how it should have been Mr. Inferno. I choked on the
tears. I couldn't lose myself in them.

Later, I mentioned to my partner that one of my ex-boyfriends (not Mr. Inferno) had

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018542
