cholesterol by 58 percent versus placebo at week 24 when added to current standard of care, including
maximally tolerated statins. n ODYSSEY COMBO I, Praluent 75 mg every two weeks as an adjunct to statins
reduced LDL cholesterol by an additional 46 percent compared to placebo at week 12. At week 24 in the same
trial, Praluent reduced LDL cholesterol by 43 percent compared to placebo. In this study, if additional LDL
cholesterol lowering was required based on pre-specified criteria at week 8, Praluent was up-titrated to 150 mg
at week 12 for the remainder of the trial. Eighty-three percent of patients remained on their initial 75 mg dose.
Praluent is generally well-tolerated with an acceptable safety profile. Local injection site reactions including
redness, itching, swelling or pain/tenderness where the injection is given were the most common events (7.2
percent with Praluent versus 5.1 percent with placebo) and resulted in a low discontinuation rate that was
comparable to placebo (0.2 percent with Praluent versus 0.4 percent with placebo). Patients receiving Praluent
had a greater number of injection site reactions, had more reports of associated symptoms, and had reactions of
longer average duration than patients receiving placebo. Other common adverse events occurring more
frequently in patients with Praluent than placebo included symptoms of the common cold and flu or flu-like
symptoms.

The companies carefully considered the potential medical value that Praluent offers patients in determining the
Wholesale Acquisition Cost (WAC). The U.S. WAC price of Praluent is $40 per day ($1,120 every 28 days) for
both the 75 mg and 150 mg doses, making Praluent the lowest priced patient-administered monoclonal antibody
therapy on an annualized basis. Actual costs to patients, payers and health systems are anticipated to be lower as
WAC pricing does not reflect discounts or rebates. Out-of-pocket costs to patients will vary depending on
insurance status and eligibility for patient assistance.

Sanofi and Regeneron are committed to ensuring that patients in the U.S. who are prescribed Praluent are able
to access the medicine and receive the support they may need. The companies will launch a comprehensive
program that offers support, training and follow up for patients at every step of the process. The program will
provide patient assistance to uninsured or underinsured patients, including providing free medicine to eligible
patients, and can help identify coverage options for out-of-pocket costs. Additional services include educational
information, clinical support for physicians, nurses and pharmacists, as well as reimbursement services,
including co-pay support for eligible patients and information about insurance eligibility support. For more

information, please call 1-844-PRALUENT (1-844-772-5836

Earlier today, the companies announced that the European Medicine Agency's (EMA's) Committee for
Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) has adopted a positive opinion for the marketing authorization of
Praluent, recommending its approval for use in certain adult patients with hypercholesterolemia. The European
Commission (EC) is expected to make a final decision on the Marketing Authorization Application for Praluent
in the European Union in September 2015.

Investor Relations Conference Call on Praluent

Sanofi and Regeneron will be hosting a conference call for the financial community on Praluent® (alirocumab)
Injection for the treatment of high LDL cholesterol in adult patients. The conference call will take place on
Friday, July 24, 2015 (21:30 CET / 20:30 BST/ 15:30 EDT / 12:30 PDT).

The call will be available through audio webcast at www.sanofi.com and www.regeneron.com and also via the
following telephone numbers:

France: +33 (0) 1 70 8071 53

UK:

+44 (0) 203 107 0289

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025891
