He looked shocked; I wondered if he'd expected me to say no. What?! he cried, and
took a moment to regain his composure. Well, that's American culture, he said finally.
It's not African culture.”

I took a deep breath and pressed my lips together. I'd be in big trouble with my employer
if I kicked up a storm at the Post Office, but oh, man -- in that moment, I really, really
wanted to. How much do I owe you? I asked instead, and went home to lose myself in
a nice sex-positive book.

Personally, what I find most intriguing about these assertions of cultural imperialism is
how they compare to similar assertions in the West. I'm a kinkster and pro-BDSM
activist, but I'm also a feminist, which can make for some serious anxiety. A lot of my
coming-out process involved both a difficult internal struggle and my observations of
arguments between kinksters and anti-BDSM feminists, who often make very similar
allegations to these African speakers on cultural imperialism.

The very articulate BDSM blogger Trinity (who, of late, has sadly decreased her
involvement in the blogosphere) has spent lots of time analyzing and participating in
those arguments. One of my favorite Trinity posts, titled Why BDSM?, hosts a radical
feminist commenter who writes:

If we lived in a healthy society, the idea of BDSM would not even come up in the first
place. BDSM is here, as a manifestation of that unhealthiness, but to try to ‘stop' the
people who aren't being coerced into it would do more harm than the thing itself...

Iam not saying tolerance of BDSM directly causes our sick society, but that it is a very
strong symptom of a society were hierarchy, inequality and degradation are seen as the
norm of human relations. Accepting BDSM is accepting this status quo. ... by challenging
all inequality, including that in BDSM, we are putting forward the idea that other
possibilities are available.

In other words: the Patriarchy made me kinky, and if I don't challenge kink then I'm
supporting the Patriarchy. I would imagine that Africans pushing the cultural imperialism
argument would say something similar: Western colonial influence made you gay, and if
you don't challenge homosexuality then you're supporting Western colonial influence.

Well, with us or against us arguments are inherently flawed. And then there's the fact
that, similarly to homosexuals, many of us kinksters consider our desires to be innate and
largely unchangeable. So if our desires can't be changed, then what exactly is
accomplished by shaming us through anti-oppressive theory-speak? (And make no
mistake -- for those of us who take the theory seriously, it really does feel shameful to
find others telling us we're in opposition, even within the private sphere of sexuality.) I'm
not remotely convinced that our sexuality arose solely because of an oppressive society --
but even if it's true, then what am I, or African gay people, supposed to actually do in
order to challenge the sick status quo? Give up on our desires and never have satisfying
sex again?

I tend to think that the idea of sexual orientations or innateness is a red herring -- not
because I believe that innateness doesn't exist, but because it's not actually relevant to
sexual morality. What should be important is only the question of whether all involved

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018595
