Clinton's campaign.

The third episode detailed in the indictment began on June 7th,
after reports that Deputy FBI Director Andrew McCabe would confirm
statements made by James Comey about how the president had tried to
intimidate him. In response, the President began a campaign of
harassment, threats, and intimidation against McCabe. On March 16,
2018, after McCabe testified before Congress, the President, in
retaliation, caused his dismissal and the loss of his pension.

The Mueller team may have a high hurdle in convincing
Rosenstein to approve the indictment. In its preparation for a possible
indictment, the Mueller team argues that nothing in the Constitution or
in a statute suggests a status with regard to criminal prosecution for the
President different from any other federal office. Nor is there any
statute or case law that finds that impeachment has to come before an
indictment. But the Department of Justice's standing view precludes
charging a sitting president with a crime. This is based on an opinion
written by the Office of Legal Counsel in the Watergate era and recently
expressed in hyperbolic terms by Giuliani: the President could kill James
Comey if he wanted to without fear of prosecution. But, according to
several former DOJ lawyers, Rosenstein in this circumstance may have
the power to override the Office of Legal Counsel opinion. The Mueller
team appears to believe that Rosenstein's pledge before congress that,
absent malfeasance, he will support the Special Counsel's independence
with regard to the Russian investigation, means he will let the
indictment go forward. In one view—and in the suspicion of some in the
White House—he may have already authorized Mueller to proceed with
the indictment.

The White House has made the argument—supported in many
television appearances by Trump legal surrogate, Alan Dershowitz—
that a president cannot be prosecuted for exercising his constitutional
prerogatives, even if those actions foster a crime, that the President, as
the ultimate federal office, and the nation's chief law enforcement
officer, enjoys nearly unfettered latitude in how he carries out his
duties. I don't think you are going to find a court who will not see the
president's role as unique, said one White House advisor. The Mueller
theories are wishful thinking.

An indictment for obstruction of Justice is described in similar

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030261
