ethnic hatred, through identity politics. This happened in Taiwan, where I
grew up. When I was a child, I was fluent in Mandarin and Taiwanese, as
most of the children I was friends with were not recent immigrants from
Mainland China like my family was. There were no social conflicts, as far
as I recall, until the pro-independence movement riled up those who
considered themselves ‘Taiwanese’ against the ‘Mainlanders’ like

myself. Some of my Taiwanese childhood friends are no longer on speaking
terms with me, simply because I’m a ‘Mainlander.’ Taiwan’s economic
development came to a sudden halt, as people were in a constant state of
feeling mistreated by the other group. The pendulum would swing from one
side (green) to the other (blue), each time a President is found to have
committed blatant and large-scale corruption. The politicians won, but the
people lost. This is one reason why I deeply resent identity politics and fear
that the proponents don’t truly understand how dangerous this game really
can be. In contrast to the prevalent view, I believe indentity politics are
themselves divisive. Economic cycles and political cycles come and go, but
people can hate each other for generations. Look around the world; I think
we can find plenty examples of irrational hatred between ethnic groups,
ironically because one group felt they were wronged by another and the
political discussions got hijacked by overly zealous politicians. (2) I love
Michael Jordan and have nothing against Ellen DeGeneres, but think Robert
de Niro made a fool of himself in that video. While this may not interest
President Obama, Mr Joe Sutter just passed away: he was the ‘Father of the
Boeing 747’, the lead engineer that designed and built the first B-747 in
1969. Maybe one day someone will do a movie about him, and the actor
playing him could win the Presidential Medal of Freedom... (3) An artist in
China made a sculpture of a black swan (see the photo below), which was
placed in a shopping mall in Beijing on the other side of the street from the
headquarters of CSRC (China Securities Regulatory Commission) — the
government agency in charge of the securities markets and the agency that
intervened to support the Chinese equity markets. This sculpture was
quickly removed by government agents, within 3 hours of it being placed
there. Months earlier, there were two sculptures of bears (mama bear and a
baby bear) that were placed outside the same mall, and they were also
removed quickly... Maybe I was wrong for belittling artists and
entertainers: they may have the power to bring down the USD9 trillion
equity markets in China with a small sculpture...

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026645
