Body Language & Banter 81

the fundamental thawing of relations between East and West, was to lead
to the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty and the end of the Cold
War.

Face-to-Face Communication

What really happened between these two leaders when they met and
talked? Was it a mechanical process of offer and counter-offer, as easily
executed by fax, or is human interaction more complex than this?

Reagan, as a young man, had been a liberal, sympathetic to socialist
ideals until a painful strike in California caused him to lose faith in the
politics of the left. Gorbachev, a lifelong Communist, was desperate to
reform the Soviet economy and make it more competitive. He, also, had
come to see the hypocrisies that could emerge in far left-wing ideology.
I don’t believe this common experience could have been communicated
by fax or email. Indeed, I am sure these specific points were never made,
but the nonverbal communication must have conveyed something of
their common background and purpose.

When we phone someone or exchange emails, the interaction is
factual, there is no body language, and we rarely laugh. When we travel
to meet someone, we spend a great deal of time with them. The average
length of a phone call is two and a half minutes, but meetings, especially
when one party has travelled to see the other, can be hours long. When
humans meet they greet each other, shake hands, sit in the same room,
talk at length, and laugh. Body language is important; people mirror
each other’s postures, adopt open and receptive stances, and make
eye contact. You can see this in the picture of Reagan and Gorbachev
above. Body language allows us to convey qualitatively different things,
such as trust and happiness. It is very expressive; you can see the more
guarded postures of Yasser Arafat and Shimon Pérez below, just after
they negotiated a landmark peace deal. Can you tell if the leaders smiles
are false?

Communication

Communication is one of mankind’s greatest expenditures. The US
telephone system is arguably the largest machine on the planet, while
the world’s mobile phone networks have a capital value of $2.5 trillion,
greater by an order of magnitude than all the steel plants in the world put

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015771
