That is when I made the decision to take the trip and bought a one-way ticket to Europe. I started
planning my adventures and eliminating my physical and psychological baggage. None of my disasters
came to pass, and my life has been a near fairy tale since. The business did better than ever, and I
practically forgot about it as it financed my travels around the world in style for 15 months.

Uncovering Fear Disguised as Optimism

There’s no difference between a pessimist who says, “Oh, it’s hopeless, so don’t bother doing
anything,’ and an optimist who says, “Don’t bother doing anything, it’s going to turn out fine
anyway.” Either way, nothing happens.

—YVON CHOUINARDZ founder of Patagonia

FE... comes in many forms, and we usually don’t call it by its four-letter name. Fear itself is quite fear-

inducing. Most intelligent people in the world dress it up as something else: optimistic denial. Most who
avoid quitting their jobs entertain the thought that their course will improve with time or increases in
income. This seems valid and is a tempting hallucination when a job is boring or uninspiring instead of
pure hell. Pure hell forces action, but anything less can be endured with enough clever rationalization.

Do you really think it will improve or is it wishful thinking and an excuse for inaction? If you were
confident in improvement, would you really be questioning things so? Generally not. This is fear of the
unknown disguised as optimism.

Are you better off than you were one year ago, one month ago, or one week ago?

If not, things will not improve by themselves. If you are kidding yourself, it is time to stop and plan
for a jump. Barring any James Dean ending, your life is going to be LONG. Nine to five for your
working lifetime of 40-50 years is a long-ass time if the rescue doesn’t come. About 500 months of solid
work.

How many do you have to go? It’s probably time to cut your losses.

Someone Call the Maitre D’

You have comfort. You don’t have luxury. And don’t tell me that money plays a part. The
luxury I advocate has nothing to do with money. It cannot be bought. It is the reward of those
who have no fear of discomfort.

—JEAN COCTEAU, French poet, novelist, boxing manager, and filmmaker, whose
collaborations were the inspiration for the term “surrealism”

S ometimes timing is perfect. There are hundreds of cars circling a parking lot, and someone pulls out

of a spot 10 feet from the entrance just as you reach his or her bumper. Another Christmas miracle!

Other times, the timing could be better. The phone rings during sex and seems to ring for a half hour.
The UPS guy shows up 10 minutes later. Bad timing can spoil the fun.

Jean-Marc Hachey landed in West Africa as a volunteer, with high hopes of lending a helping hand. In
that sense, his timing was great. He arrived in Ghana in the early 1980s, in the middle of a coup d’état, at

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013826
