anybody else now serving in the White House. She and Jared, or Jared, but by inference
she, too, were in effect the real chief of staff—or certainly as much a chief of staff as
Priebus or Bannon, all of them reporting directly to the president. Or, even more to the
organizational point, Jared and Ivanka had a wholly independent standing inside the West
Wing. A super status. Even as Priebus and Bannon tried, however diplomatically, to
remind the couple of staff procedures and propriety, they would in turn remind the West
Wing leadership of their overriding First Family prerogatives. In addition, the president
had immediately handed Jared the Middle East portfolio, making him one of the
significant international players in the administration—indeed, in the world. In the first
weeks, this brief extended out to virtually every other international issue, about which
nothing in Kushner’s previous background would have prepared him for.

Kushner’s most cogent reason for entering the White House was “leverage,” by which
he meant proximity. Quite beyond the status of being inside the family circle, anyone who
had proximity to the president had leverage, the more proximity the more leverage. Trump
himself you could see as a sort of Delphic oracle, sitting in place and throwing out
pronouncements which had to be interpreted. Or as an energetic child, and whomever
could placate or distract him became his favorite. Or as the Sun God (which is effectively
how he saw himself), the absolute center of attention, dispensing favor and delegating
power, which could, at any moment, be withdrawn. The added dimension was that this
Sun God had little calculation. His inspiration existed in the moment, hence all the more
reason to be there with him in the moment. Bannon, for one, joined Trump for dinner
every night, or at least made himself available—one bachelor there for the effective other
bachelor. (Priebus would observe that in the beginning everyone would try to be part of
these dinners, but within a few months, they had become a torturous duty to be avoided.)

Part of Jared and Ivanka’s calculation about the relative power and influence of a
formal job in the West Wing versus an outside advisory role was the knowledge that
influencing Trump required you to be all in. From phone call to phone call—and his day,
beyond organized meetings, was almost entirely phone calls—you could lose him. The
subtleties here were immense, because while he was often most influenced by the last
person he spoke to, he did not actually listen to anyone. So it was not so much the force of
an individual argument or petition that moved him, but rather more just someone’s
presence, the connection of what was going through his mind—and although he was a
person of many obsessions, much of what was on his mind had no fixed view—to
whomever he was with and their views.

Ultimately Trump may not be that different in his fundamental solipsism from anyone
of great wealth who has lived most of his life in a highly controlled environment. But one
clear difference was that he had acquired almost no formal sort of social discipline—he
could not even attempt to imitate decorum. He could not really converse, for instance, not
in the sense of sharing information, or of a balanced back-and-forth conversation. He
neither particularly listened to what was said to him, nor particularly considered what he

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019937
