Edwards, Bradley vs. Dershowitz

Case No.: CACE 15-000072

Edwards and Cassells Response to Dershowitz's Motion to Determine Confidentiality of Court Records
Page 5 of 20

Islands. In addition to being a participant in the abuse of Jane Doe #3 and other
minors, Dershowitz was an eye-witness to the sexual abuse of many other
minors by Epstein and several of Epstein’s coconspirators. Dershowitz would
later play a significant role in negotiating the [Non-Prosecution Agreement] on
Epstein’s behalf. Indeed, Dershowitz helped negotiate an agreement that
provided immunity from federal prosecution in the Southern District of Florida
not only to Epstein, but also to “any potential coconspirators of Epstein.” Thus,
Dershowitz helped negotiate an agreement witha provision that provided
protection for himself against criminal prosecution in Florida for sexually
abusing Jane Doe #3. Because this broad immunity wouldhave been
controversial if disclosed, Dershowitz (along with other members of Epstein’s
defense team) and the Government tried to keep the immunity provision secret
from all of Epstein’s victims and the general public, even though such secrecy
violated the Crime Victims’ Rights Act.
Dershowitz Counterclaim at § 15 (quoting Joinder Motion at 4).

Remarkably, having quoted at length from the Joinder Motion in his Counterclaim in this
case, Dershowitz now seeks to have that very same language from the Joinder Motion deemed
“confidential” and sealed. Compare Counterclaim at 15 (block quotation above) with Motion to
Determine Confidentiality, Exhibit A at 4 (composite exhibit with proposed “confidential”
document that includes paragraph beginning “[o]ne such powerful individual that Epstein forced
then-minor Jane Doe #3 to have sexual relations with was former Harvard Law Professor Alan
Dershowitz, a close friend of Epstein’s .. . .”). Dershowitz cannot come before this Court and
file a counterclaim seeking damages from Edwards and Cassell for alleged defamatory
Statements and then ask to have those very same statements placed under seal as

“confidential.” See Barron v. Florida Freedom Newspapers, 531 So.2d at 119 (“although

generally protected by one’s privacy right, medical reports and history are no longer protected

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010761
