166 Teaching Minds

Planning. What I said about diagnosis is also true of planning. We
plan in everything we do. There are economic plans, architectural
plans, medical treatment plans, business plans, and so on. A computer
program is a type of plan, and research plans are everywhere in a
university. Writing these plans is not so different in principle, but in
reality a business plan doesn’t look much like a treatment plan. So
there is the idea of a good plan and the understanding of what a plan
looks like, what a plan’s description ought to be like, in any area of
life. You may think a business plan should look a certain way, but if
the business community has a different idea, that idea will turn out
to be right.

Students should have the opportunity to write all kinds of plans,
learning about the principles of planning while learning about what
officially is considered to be a good plan in an area of the real world
that interests them.

So, as part of the second year, students should get to study plan-
ning, and then study successful planning documents, and then write
plans and have them evaluated by the faculty.

Causation. Who studies causation? Everybody. Psychologists
worry about what makes people crazy, doctors worry about what
makes people sick, environmentalists worry about what is ruining
the planet. Physicists want to know how the world works. Computer
scientists want to know how computers can work better. Engineers do
nothing but causation, really. So, here again, determining causes is a
basic cognitive skill and it can be learned within the second year as
well, in the same way I have been describing building on what came
in the first year to tackle complex problems of causation in areas that
interest the students.

Social Processes

Describing can easily be taught, as all of the eight processes dis-
cussed above are taught by requiring students to present their work in
written and oral form. Students need to learn to write but they also
need to learn to talk and to use alternative media to make their points
and to explain what they have done. A coherent course of study in
how to describe properly is easily within the ability of any college fac-
ulty and ought to be its highest priority, taught from many different

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023912
