EDUCATION:
[theory] Sexual ABCs in Africa, Part 2: Be Faithful

This is the second in the three-part Sexual ABCs series, but I originally intended it to
be the last one, because it's the most complicated by far.

TK OK ok

Sexual ABCs in Africa, Part 2: Be Faithful

South African President Jacob Zuma has three wives; in a headline-making ceremony, a
South African businessman recently married four women at once. King Mswati of
Swaziland has thirteen wives, and his father King Sobhuza had 70. (Yes. Seventy.) Here
in southern Africa, even those rich men who don't take multiple wives almost always
support mistresses. Naturally, local women don't get multiple spouses, and the social
penalties for infidelity are much worse for women. In America, feminists often point out
that slut is an insult while stud is a compliment; there's a similar linguistic trend in
siZulu, but the English words are mild compared to their siZulu equivalents.

te Kk ok

I rarely practice consensual non-monogamy myself, but I don't hesitate to advocate
destigmatizing polyamory and swing in America. True, my primary interest is BDSM,
but there's so much to learn from every form of consensual sexuality. Plus, we're
basically on the same side -- it'd be great if different sex subcultures had more
consciousness of a sex-positive agenda or movement! Although our communities
have different emphases and, sometimes, profoundly different values, I see swingers and
polyfolk as my brothers- and sisters-in-arms.

But enough of the soapbox! The point is that I've often defended poly -- and I've gotten
into interesting arguments doing so. One friend noted just how hard it is for poly people
to negotiate their relationships. It's so complicated,” he complained. So much
communication is required. Doesn't that seem like an argument against it? If polyamory
were really a good relationship model, then people wouldn't have to put so much effort
into accomplishing it.”

It's only complicated because polyamory isn't our societal default, I replied. People
have to put extra effort into negotiating relationships that fall outside the norm. The same
thing happens with BDSM. Kinksters must spend a lot more time discussing our sexual
relationships, because it's more dangerous for us to make assumptions about where our
partners want to go. That doesn't mean there's anything wrong with kink.

And, I added, that extra effort can be a feature, not a bug! The fact that kinksters spend
so much time isolating different aspects of our sexuality has given us a uniquely fine-
grained sexual vocabulary. I think most kinksters tend to make fewer assumptions about
our partners' boundaries than vanilla people do. And circumstances have forced us to
develop some brilliant strategies for bedroom communication. I'm not saying we're all
brilliant communicators, but I think we've got a unique window on it. When I run sexual
communication workshops, half the tactics I share are filched from the BDSM

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018585
