23

disciplines keep a chokehold on how younger academics think and do
research. Today, the single most popular form of development
dissertation in both economics and political science is a randomized
micro-experiment in which the graduate student goes out into the
field and studies, at a local level, the impact of some intervention like
the introduction of co-payments for malaria mosquito netting or
changes in electoral rules on ethnic voting. These studies can be
technically well designed, and they certainly have their place in
evaluating projects at a micro level. But they do not aggregate
upwards into anything that can tell us when a regime crosses the line
into illegitimacy, or how economic growth is changing the class
structure of a society. We are not, in other words, producing new
Samuel Huntingtons, with the latter’s simultaneous breadth and depth
of knowledge.

On a policy level, we need far more mutual understanding between
those who promote socioeconomic development and those who work
on democracy promotion and governance. Traditional development
agencies like USAID already think politically to the extent that their
aid projects are designed to support U.S. foreign policy. But they,
like their counterparts in multilateral organizations like the World
Bank, are not trained to do political economy analysis; they do not
seek an understanding of the political context within which aid 1s
used and abused, and what is not sought is very rarely found. We call
for the liberalization of ports in Haiti, for example, without trying to
understand which particular politicians are benefiting from existing
arrangements that keep them closed. For their part, democracy
promoters focus on democratic transitions, providing help to
opposition parties and civil society organizations in authoritarian
countries. But once a transition occurs, as it did after the Orange and
Rose revolutions in Ukraine and Georgia, they have relatively little to
offer new democratic governments in terms of policy agendas, anti-

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023480
