Such an approach to “Radical Breakthroughs” is core CTT - in fact, I attempted this as part of the very first
CTT series in 1999/2000

“How do Breakthroughs Change Science” - with evolutionary biologist Francisco Ayala; philosopher and
neuroscientist Patricia Smith Churchland; author/astronomer Timothy Ferris; child psychologist Rochel
Gelman; and astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson - https://www.closertotruth.com/roundtables/how-do-

breakthroughs-change-science

What are the Big Questions of Science?” - with evolutionary biologist Francisco Ayala; philosopher and
neuroscientist Patricia Smith Churchland; author/astronomer Timothy Ferris; theoretical physicist Steve
Koonin; and astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson - https://www.closertotruth.com/roundtables/what-are-the-big-
questions-science

Though the production values of these early shows are much lower than our current version (since 2008), the
content and contributors suggest how CTT can do a big new series - a full season of 13 episodes - on “Radical
Breakthroughs”.

Appreciate specific direction, so that when we meet, I can be prepared

Love to do something big and dramatic together.

Robert

On May 9, 2017, at 7:52 PM, jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote:

plant biology. ? great experiments being done. rarely looked at before. root communication. No, I have
not lost my mind, . If done well , you would get lots of press. cutting edge technologys for optogenetics

, experiments that dont require IRB approval. . its very exciting. do plants get an alzheimer equivalent
placque, . als disease. parkinsons , yes itseemsso. most cancer drugs are plant derivatives. / lots of
fun . good luck in china

On Mon, May 8, 2017 at 11:39 PM, Robert Kuhn <g> wrote:
Appreciate consideration. I’m next in NY June 7 (for about a week); love to brainstorm.... I too would really
like to do something (important) together.

Just arrived in Beijing for the “The Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation” (commentating), the

second most important event of 2017 in China (after the upcoming Party Congress), but Western media not
paying much attention, what with All-Things-Trump.

On May 8, 2017, at 7:03 PM, jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote:

hope things are well. . when are you back. . I would love to do something with you , but sleep is not going
to be it.. Ihave read quite alot and frankly , the subject is fascinating but i see no real insights. just more
questions and mostly the same ones that have been asked for years. . yes, its role in many processes are now
becoming apparent. but I see no theories that can hold their own ( yet ).

please note

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025311
