interview the girl who then supplies names of other girls. Some of whom are
younger than 18.

In the end, the police track down 18 girls—nine who are under 18; the
others in their 20s and 30s; one woman is in her 60s—a number of whom
give statements describing scenarios not terribly different from Epstein’s
description above, except each is laid out in clinical, lurid, and near-identical
detail. A cold and forceful Epstein demands that unwitting juveniles (though
they have come here for this very purpose) perform repulsive (or at least
repulsively described) acts on him. (Although the nature of the allegations
will dramatically grow into threesomes and forced sexual encounters,
nobody at this point alleges anything more than Epstein masturbating.)

Epstein vastly raises the stakes by calling Dershowitz, who flies into
Palm Beach to put the local authorities in their place—alienating Palm
Beach officialdom—and, doubling down on the profile of the case, brings in
Roy Black the famous criminal attorney who defended William Kennedy
Smith in his rape trial in Palm Beach.

Here’s the narrative: the shadowy rich man, friend of the louche and
disgraced President, at all times surrounded by a retinue of young and
gorgeous female retainers doing his bidding, is now found to have gathered a
network of wrong-side-of-the-tracks Palm Beach girls to provide him with
weird sexual services. (It somehow reads weirder that he doesn’t have sex
with them.) To boot, his former girl friend, Ghislaine Maxwell—the
daughter of the disgraced Robert Maxwell—encouraged at least one of the
girls to come to Epstein’s home (and forever more has become a fixture of
further weird possibilities in this tale).

Palm Beach Police Chief Michael Reiter is reported to say: “This is
bigger than Rush Limbaugh,” who, in a storm of publicity, has just been
arrested in Palm Beach for possession of controlled drugs.

On one side are some of the nation’s most powerful defense attorneys
(who, increasingly, seem more stumblebum than effective), on the other
side, a round-up of hapless girls, with sensational tales of perversion and
infamy (in the telling they are not so much sex workers, as Dickensian
victims), relatively speaking giving the Palm Beach authorities the choice
between utter capitulation to the powerful or standing on the side of the
seemingly exploited and powerless.

Still, with a cold eye, it also quite appears to be a straightforward tale
of prostitution (however more or less kinky). And even though some of the
girls are minors, age is not a distinguishing factor 1n a solicitation charge in
Florida, nor in most places (in New York, for instance, at this time soliciting

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022761
