186 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

Russian troop movements in the Crimea and eastern Ukraine. U.S.
intelligence officials even went so far as to suggest, according to a
report in The Wall Street Journal, that “Russian planners might
have gotten a jump on the West by evading U.S. eavesdropping.”

Britain also discovered that some of its secret operations had been
compromised after Snowden went to Moscow. According to a 2015
story in the Sunday Times of London, British intelligence had deter-
mined that Britain’s intelligence-gathering sources had been exposed
to adversary services by documents that Snowden had stolen from
the NSA in 2013. These documents had been provided to the NSA
by the GCHQ. Unless such intelligence disasters were freak aberra-
tions, it appeared to confirm General Alexander’s warning in 2014
that the NSA was “losing some of its capabilities, because they’re
being disclosed to our adversaries.”

Snowden’s supporters disputed this view. If only as an act of faith
in Snowden’s personal integrity, they continued to believe his avowal
to Senator Humphrey that he had acted to protect U.S. secrets by
shielding them from adversary intelligence services after he took

® them abroad. They also continued to take him at his word when he ©
said he had destroyed all the NSA documents before going to Rus-
sia. Despite such protestations of patriotic loyalty, U.S. intelligence
officials could not so easily dismiss the possibility that the missing
documents still existed. After all, a U.S. intelligence worker who is
dedicated to protecting America’s secrets from its adversaries does
not ordinarily steal them.

The NSA, the CIA, and the Department of Defense therefore
had little choice but to assume the worst had happened: Russia and
China had obtained access to the “keys to the kingdom.” Whatever
the extent of the actual damage, it was up to Alexander’s replace-
ment, Admiral Michael Rogers, both to restore morale and to rebuild
the capabilities of America’s electronic intelligence in the wake of
the massive breach. According to a national security staff member
in the Obama White House, that job would take more than a decade.
The NSA had failed to protect vital assets. This intelligence failure
did not happen out of the blue.

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 186 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019674
