after our first phone conversation and ever since then, the F.B.I were
tapping the phone lines and recording every conversation. Completely
unaware of T.J’s caring act of deceit, I was in such shock that they had
been tracking us for so long. T knew now, with or without my help, the
F.B.I had enough on Ron to put him away for a very long time, if they
could catch him, that is.

Having so many crooked people working for you can be an advantage
when you’re in trouble. Like having a pair of eyes in every city. Ron was
somchow able to find out about Charlie’s arrest and immediately deserted
the country to avoid legal punishment, not to mention the discretization
of his esteemed clientele that the feds were now on to. Ron had so many
countless charges put up against him, eventually when the F.B.I were
able to track him down they were able to have him arrested in Yugoslavia
and extradited back to Miami, he was finally held accountable for being a
pedophile, soliciting women for prostitution, and running many
illegitimate and illegal businesses. By the time the F.B.I caught him he
was in his mid-seventies when he died of old age serving his second year
prison for a lengthy sentence. Coincidentally I was told of his punishment
and death many years later by one of the same F.B.I agents that had
rescued me from Charlie’s arms.

I was taken out of the interrogation room after the interview was over
with and told to sit at one of the officer’s desk while lL was waiting for
someone to pick me up. Uncertain of who that someone would be I
assumed it would be someone from the juvenile delinquents division to
take me back to some state operated lockdown facility. Not the nicest of
places to call home, but I had no choice in this matter.

Sitting back in the revolving chair I was twirling out of boredom and
listening to the roaming conversations within the office. I pondered in
fearful anticipation of the dreadful places that lay in store for me. Having
to of spent a lot of my adolescence in these kind of places for the sheer
factor that my mother said “I was out of control and unable to handle” by
eleven years old. There was plenty of just reason for me to be so scared of
those places. What I knew lay in store for me were constant fights
between the rough girls being settled with violent raids then out came the
pepper spray and then the strip-searches and worst of all, no sunlight. It
didn’t matter if you were a quiet, shy girl that didn’t belong there, when
there was a fight, which was could be like a few times a week, every
person in the room was considered a threat and were treated like a violent
criminal. I hated those places and the memories they gave me. That’s
why | always ended up back on the streets. No child or even a juvenile
should have to be subjected to such unreasonable force and neglect. Some
of the girls were so used to being subdued to this kind of treatment their

17

1 Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004150

whole life they ended up repeating the same attributes as the people who
initially hurt them in the first place.

One very sad girl I’ll never forget her, had a father who had been a
heroine junkie and decided to play Russian Roulette with some of his
addict friends and by fate or chance took the bullet straight through his
brain, killing him instantly. Her mother being a heroine addict herself
spiraled downwards after his death and gave her four year old child to her
ageing grandmother that eventually had to put my twelve year old friend
in this un-dire circumstance. I can only have he highest hopes for her
today but unfortunately for most girls that have been victimized by
society aren’t able to ever stop being a victim for the rest of their lives or
go on to make other people victims themselves. A sad and unfortunate
fate for so many innocent, and it happens so much more than anyone
would rather admit too instead of just trying to find a solution.

Chapter 3

Hours later I was still twirling myself in the same office chair when |
spun around to see my Father walking in my direction. I nearly fell off
my seat at the sight of him. Gripping the chairs handles I couldn’t
imagine what in the world I would say to the man I once used to call
Daddy but now hated for the abandonment and unforgiving wounds he
instilled inside of me. He contemplated putting his arms out to hold me
but instead anger and shame took over and he just shook his head. | never
saw my Dad cry until that day and I have to say it made me feel young
again and sad I had disappointed my parents again. The agents now
standing beside us led both of us together back into the interrogation
room to re-tale my journey to my father who they said I had no choice to
tell, or they would have to tell him for me, being I was an under-aged
minor and Ron violated the statutory rape law, among many others, when
he took me back to his apartment and kept me as his sex slave. My Dad
couldn’t believe what he was hearing and for his lack of better choice in
words asked me to stop talking, he was just happy to know | was alive.
Like everyone I’d known in life they would rather brush it under the
carpet and not deal with the pain rather than realizing sooner or later it all
comes out sometime in our life even if it transgresses into our future then
becomes what we are willing to accept out of partners, work, and people
in general. Simply saying in other ways than with words that our bad
decisions befall our tragedies later on in life.

The next discussion was led to where I would go to from here. Before
anyone could put his or her suggestion forward I leapt in with my two
bits and made it obviously clear to my Dad that if ! was sent away to

18

O Copyright Protected Material

GIUTTFREOO4 154

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021153
