34

geographical lines. However, over time, these divisions must manifest
themselves. For example, the coastal plain is inherently more
cosmopolitan than the rest of the country. The interests of its
inhabitants lie more with trading partners in the Mediterranean and
the rest of the world than with their countrymen. Their standard of
living is higher, and their commitment to traditions is lower.
Therefore, there is an inherent tension between their immediate
interests and those of the Galileans, who live more precarious,
warlike lives. Countries can be divided over lesser issues — and
when Israel is divided, it is vulnerable even to regional threats.

We say even because geography dictates that regional threats are
less menacing than might be expected. The fact that Israel would be
outnumbered demographically should all its neighbors turn on it is
less important than the fact that it has adequate buffers in most
directions, that the ability of neighbors to coordinate an attack 1s
minimal and that their appetite for such an attack is even less. The
single threat that Israel faces from the northeast can readily be
managed if the Israelis create a united front there. When Israel was
overrun by a Damascus-based power, it was deeply divided
internally.

It is important to add one consideration to our discussion of buffers,
which is diplomacy. The main neighbors of Israel are Egyptians,
Syrians and those who live on the east bank of Jordan. This last
group is a negligible force demographically, and the interests of the
Syrians and Egyptians are widely divergent. Egypt's interests are to
the south and west of its territory; the Sinai holds no attraction. Syria
is always threatened from multiple directions, and alliance with Egypt
adds little to its security. Therefore, under the worst of circumstances,
Egypt and Syria have difficulty supporting each other. Under the best
of circumstances, from Israel's point of view, it can reach a political
accommodation with Egypt, securing its southwestern frontier

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031867
