scan and e-mail you everything that comes in, giving you the option of recycling/shredding junk, getting
a scan of the contents, or having specific items forwarded to you or someone you designate. I have not
personally used it yet (will be testing it out this month in preparation for an upcoming trip in May), but a
friend and author in Portland swears by them and knows the CEO. Seems they’ve gotten good press and
the idea seems far better than relying on friends/family who, if they’re anything like my friends/family ...
will surely drop the ball at some point:-).

— NATHALIE

I also use GreenByPhone.com to process checks electronically that come in through my Earth Class
Mail account—they charge $5 a check, but I live in San Diego, my Earth Class Mail office address is in
Seattle, and I bank in Ohio. It works great!

—ANDREW

To add to your excellent list (we’ve traveled just like that for several years SWEET?), I’d like to add
my modifications as a female traveler and a new mom (16-month-old baby). Personal favorites: (1)
Athleta carries excellent, light, quick-dry clothing that hold up well to sports but still look very
fashionable. Skorts are a must for looking feminine but being fully covered for hiking and steep pyramid
steps—you know what I mean, ladies! Just a note, a slightly longer length will serve you well in a lot of
countries, as well as tankini tops and swim skirts for swimming. (2) Fresh & Go toothbrush is simple to
use. (3) Marsona sound machine for drowning out unfamiliar noises is a must (regularly use with baby at
home too so when they hear the sound they know it’s sleep time!). This has been a lifesaver for us on
many trips, and we now use it regularly at home for better sleep. No more changing hotels midtrip to
avoid noise. AND, I know we have to travel light, but with baby a lot of things are nonnegotiable. These
make for smoother sailing: (1) Peanut shell sling in black fleece—it’s more comfy than the cotton and
you can pop baby in and out wherever you are, from birth to 35 Ibs. I never take mine off, it’s part of my
outfit; (2) Peapod plus portable tent—this is baby’s main bed at home and travel so baby has the same
sleep place everywhere we go, and the flaps give all travel parties privacy— great from small babies to
five-year-olds. I can still jam this onto a little wheeled carry-on and pack mine and baby’s minimal
clothing around it; (3) Go Go Kidz TravelMate (great for wheeling car seat up to the gate for gate check
or use on plane); (4) Britax Diplomat car seat is small but kids can use it from birth to approx. four years
old.

Make sure the wheeled carry-on bag you get is one size smaller than the allowed carry-on size so you
don’t get bumped to check the bag in if the plane is full. You can always nicely argue/reason/bat your
eyelashes that you will put the bag in your foot space. Also, very helpful to give baby something to sip
or munch on during take off and landing so yours isn’t the baby screaming from ear pain. Happy travels!

—KARYL

PRE-EMPTING THE BOSS: COMMON CONCERNS ABOUT REMOTE WORK

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013946
