go with it.

Managed this by (a) going on info diet, (b) working 9 p.m.-midnight in a campsite with no other
distractions, (c) outsourcing everything that I would find difficult or time consuming (like the tricky
programming stuff and the illustrations for my book).

After about four weeks I had an automated informational website that had replaced % of my full-time
income—requiring > four hours per week to maintain.

The original plan was to arrive in Adelaide and get a J.O.B. But with my passive income, I decided to
simply grow my new business and am currently very close to replacing 100% of my previous income. It
feels {&*#ing brilliant.

Now we plan to travel the world slowly until the kids are ready for primary school...
Who says kids hold you back?! —FINN

WORKING REMOTELY

One month and one year ago, I read 4HWW on the recommendation of my sister’s boyfriend after I
had been talking for months about changing my life drastically and moving to Argentina to learn
Castellano. After reading the book I stopped talking about my dreams and immediately started setting
short-term and long-term goals. I bought a notebook to track my monthly goals and tasks. I did lots of
research on potential remote working situations and I started telling my close friends and family about
my new plans. Everyone that I told thought it was just an idea and I wasn’t actually going to go through
with it. They thought it was a “some day I'd like to do this” idea and that I wasn’t actually setting daily
goals to get me there. They knew that I loved my job so why would I leave it for a life of uncertainty? I
didn’t think of it that way. I wasn’t scared, I was excited at the prospect of a new way of life, a fresh
start, and even though I loved my job I also had other things I wanted to accomplish in my life. At first I
thought about teaching English to make a living down there, but deep down inside all I really wanted to
do was continue working for my current company, just doing it remotely. The book gave me the
confidence to think this was actually possible, when everyone around me thought it was impossible.

I decided to write up a proposal and present it to my boss even at the advice not to do it from
everyone I knew. If my boss rejected my proposal, I had enough money saved up to live in Argentina for
at least six months to get me by until I could figure out how I wanted to make money there. I was not
giving up on my dream of living a freer, happier life with less work and more time for myself. All odds
were against me but I took a calculated risk and had faith in myself. After I handed in my proposal, I
was ready to expect the worst. Everyone around me was waiting with baited breath and words of
encouragement after I got rejected. When I left the meeting with my boss I couldn’t believe it. She
accepted and was eager to talk to me about the details. She even had a smile on her face and told me how
awesome my proposal was. No one else could believe it when I told them. After the shock wore off, I
realized that I could actually do this, and a huge weight was lifted from my shoulders. The hardest part
was over and now I could start thinking of more possibilities for my new life.

I set my goal to move to Argentina for September 2008. I arrived here on September 3 and have been
here for about six months now. I live in the capital city of Jujuy, Argentina, a small province in the
northwest of Argentina. I work about 5—10 hours a week and [ find that I am much more focused now
that I am out of the office and working alone. I have a private Spanish tutor that I meet with for two
hours, five days a week. I have a handful of friends that I spend time with, practicing my Spanish. I go to
the gym three times a week and go to yoga two times a week—something I didn’t do in the States
because I didn’t have enough time. I eat healthier because I have more time to focus on what to eat. I
have more time to dream up bigger things that I want to do with my new free time. I have dreams of
owning a bar or cafe, so maybe a few years from now that will be my next endeavor.

My advice to 4HWW readers is to take from my experience. I rely heavily on the advice of my friends

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014026
