XII. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

Legal Counsel

Proskauer Rose LLP (“Proskauer Rose”) acts as counsel to the Fund, the General Partner and
the Management Company in connection with the organization of the Fund and the offering of
Limited Partner Interests therein. Proskauer Rose also acts as counsel to the Fund, the General
Partner, the Management Company and their affiliates in connection with investments and
ongoing operations of the Fund and other matters. In connection with the offering of Limited
Partner Interests and subsequent advice to the Fund, the General Partner, the Management
Company and their affiliates, Proskauer Rose will not be representing the Limited Partners of
the Fund. No independent counsel has been retained to represent the Limited Partners of the
Fund. Investors are advised to seek their own counsel in connection with a prospective
investment in the Fund.

Accounting and Reporting
KPMG LLP, independent certified public accountants, will report upon the financial statements
of the Fund for each fiscal year.

Availability of Principal Agreements

Prior to the consummation of the offering, the Fund will provide to each prospective investor
and such investors’ representatives and advisers, the opportunity to ask questions regarding the
terms and conditions of this offering and to obtain any additional information required. Any
questions or requests for information should be directed to Ron Hunt, New Leaf Venture
Partners, L.L.C., Times Square Tower, 7 Times Square, Suite 3502, New York, New York 10036
(T: 646-871-6400).

No other persons have been authorized to give information or to make any representations
concerning this offering, and if given or made, such other information or representations must
not be relied upon as having been authorized by the Fund.

Copies of the Partnership Agreement and Subscription Agreement for the purchase of Limited
Partner Interests will be made available upon request.

Prospective investors are urged to request any additional information they may consider
necessary in making an informed investment decision. During the course of the transaction and
prior to sale, each purchaser of a Limited Partner Interest is invited to ask questions of the Fund
Managers concerning the terms and conditions of the offering and to obtain any additional
information necessary or to verify the accuracy of the information furnished in the
Memorandum.

88 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024099
