Nardil, Marplan, Eutony, Parnate and others of a then common family of
antidepressant drugs.

The presence of a DMT-generating enzyme in human brain was particularly
exciting because we knew from the work of Harvard botanist, Richard Shultes and
others, that DMT and the monoamine oxidase inhibitor, beta carboline, are
combined in a mixture of the leaves of a shrub and the bark of a vine, both
Amazonian plants, used together by the shaman of Peru, Colombia and Ecuador for
thousands of years to evoke mystical experiences in themselves. In their state of
chemically-facilitated, spiritual transformation, they were better able to engage in
healing and divination of others. More recently this and other similarly acting
biochemicals have been called entheogenic, “connecting to the sacred within.”

Consistent with our neurochemical findings in human brain, the shamanic
concoction, called by many names including ayahuasca and yage, combined the
DMT containing plant, Psychotria viridis, with an extract of a vine with the powerful
monoamine oxidase inhibitor properties of the beta carbolines found in
Banisteriospsis caapi. |n 1975, working with a graduate student, Louise Hsu, we
found that the mammalian brain could also synthesize beta carbolines. This family
of compounds from the vine protects the tryptamine substrate as well as DMT from
metabolic degradation such that it could circulate in the blood long enough after oral
ingestion for enough to cross the blood brain barrier to induced prolonged and
dramatic alterations in perceptions, feelings and thoughts. In addition, the
carbolines of the Benisteriospsis component extended the time of action of DMT
beyond the 15-30 minutes of effect of DMT when injected alone in human subjects.
We found it fascinating that the human brain made combinations of DMT and beta
carbolines similar to the blend that indigenous shamamic chemists discovered as an
entheogenic from plant sources.

Ralph Metzner, in the introduction to his 1999 collection of papers called
Ayahuasca concluded that “...it is widely recognized by anthropologists as
being...the most powerful and most widespread of the shamanic hallucinogens.”
William Burrough in a 1953 City Lights published book written with Allen Ginsberg,

tt

The Yage Letters, said that yage “...gave entrance to a city where all human

88

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013588
