terminal boredom as a tolerable status quo.

Remember— boredom is the enemy, not some abstract “failure.”

Correcting Course: Get Unrealistic

Trex is a process that I have used, and still use, to reignite life or correct course when the Fat Man in

the BMW rears his ugly head. In some form or another, it is the same process used by the most
impressive NR I have met around the world: dreamlining. Dreamlining is so named because it applies
timelines to what most would consider dreams.

It is much like goal-setting but differs in several fundamental respects:

The goals shift from ambiguous wants to defined steps.
The goals have to be unrealistic to be effective.

3. It focuses on activities that will fill the vacuum created when work is removed. Living like a
millionaire requires doing interesting things and not just owning enviable things.

Now it’s your turn to think big.

How to Get George Bush Sr. or the
CEO of Google on the Phone

The article below, titled “Fail Better” and written by Adam Gottesfeld, explores how I teach Princeton
students to connect with luminary-level business mentors and celebrities of various types. I’ve edited it
for length in a few places.

People are fond of using the “it’s not what you know, it’s who you know” adage as an excuse for
inaction, as if all successful people are born with powerful friends.

Nonsense.

Here’s how normal people build supernormal networks.

Fail Better
BY ADAM GOTTESFELD

MOST PRINCETON students love to procrastinate in writing their dean’s date [term] papers. Ryan Marrinan
°07, from Los Angeles, was no exception. But while the majority of undergraduates fill their time by
updating their Facebook profiles or watching videos on YouTube, Marrinan was discussing Soto Zen
Buddhism via e-mail with Randy Komisar, a partner at the venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield
and Byers, and asking Google CEO Eric Schmidt via e-mail when he had been happiest in his life.
(Schmidt’s answer: “Tomorrow.”)

Prior to his e-mail, Marrinan had never contacted Komisar. He had met Schmidt, a Princeton
University trustee, only briefly at an academic affairs meeting of the trustees in November. A self-
described “naturally shy kid,’ Marrinan said he would never have dared to randomly e-mail two of the
most powerful men in Silicon Valley if it weren’t for Tim Ferriss, who offered a guest lecture in

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013832
