this report may be used or reproduced or quoted in any manner whatsoever in Taiwan by t

This research report provides general information on

other financial instrument or any derivative related to such

personal investment advice and it does not take into
financial advice regarding the a
that statements regarding future prospects may not
security or the information in the prospectus or ot!
Securities and other financial instruments discussed
deposits or other obligations of any insured depos
among others, market risk, counterparty default risk
instruments may be difficult to value or sell and relia
income from such securities and
ose their entire principal inves
This report may contain a shor
short-term price impact on the e
reflects both a longer term total
be more or less positive than as
BofA Merrill Lynch is aware that
acti
executing any short idea contained in this repo!
For
incl
UK
ocated outsi
u
ime, hold a
BofA Merrill
Ww
methods of
recipient of
In the event
therewith

quity securities o

he implementation

rt.

°o

uding ADRs, effectively assume currency risk.

de of the United Kingdom. BofA Merrill

h
h

@ persons who prepared them, and Bo
is report.

LPF&S may be deemed

beyond the delivery of this report (unless otherwise agreed 5|

transactions, including transactions in any securities
Copyright and General Information regarding Res
Copyright 2017 Bank of America Con

iOcustom®, iQdatabase® are registered service marks of Ban
or in part, or in any form
and client websites and other por

retransmitted or disclosed, in whole
simultaneously to interna
review of this research report consti
(including any investmen
Materials prepared by BofA Merrill Lynch Global Rese

utes your agree

information known to, professionals in other business areas of BofA Merri

BofA
researc
hould

erri Research and certain busin
h re
consult their own
ny BofA Merrill Lynch en
n public information. Fac
rofessionals in other busi
his re
ities. None of MLPF&S, any of i
Research policy prohibits rese
containing such rating, recom
ormation relating to the tax s
ax advice based
The information herein (o
may contain links to third-
contained on such third-party websites is not part o
any affiliation with BofA Merrill Lynch. Access to any
submitting any personal information to them. BofA
Subject to the quiet period applicable under laws of

| Lynch Global

ou

ity and/or its directors, off

mendation or in
atus of financial

recent research report rela
nsome cases, an issuer may be classified as Restric
its security and/or financia
inancial instruments) nor should the analyses or opi

ppropriateness of investing
her offer’

itory institution (including, Bank o

other financial instrumen
ment. Past performance is not necessarily a guide to
erm trading idea or recommendation, which highlights a specific near-term catalyst or even
the issuer. Short-term trading ideas and recommendations are dif
return expectation and attractiveness for investmen
ock's fundamental equi

eign currency rates of exchange may adversely affect

PF&S or one of its affiliates is a regular issuer of traded financial instru
rading position (long or short} in the securiti
Lynch, through business units other than Bo
ith, and reach different conclusions from, the information presented in

that the recipient received this report pursuant to a contract
o be acting as an investment adviser, such status relates, if at all, solely to the person with whom MLPF&S
writing by MLPF&S). MLPF&S is and continues to act solely as a broker-dealer in connection

5 and views presented in this material that rela

on their particular circumstances from an independent tax professional.
her than disclosure information relating to BofA Merrill Lynch and its affiliates) was obtained from various sources and we do not guaran
party websites. BofA Merri

publication of research reports, fundamental equity reports are produced on a regular basis as necessary to kee
Certain outstanding reports may contain discussions and/or investment opinions relating to securities, financial instruments and/or issuers that are no longer current. Always refer to the most
ing to an issuer prior to making an investment decision.

ly. Neither the information nor any op
account the specific investment o
in financial instruments and im
ized. Any decision to purchase or subscribe for secu
ing document issued in connection with such offeri
report, or recommended, 0
America, N.A}. Investmen
and liquidity risk. No security, financia
ble information about the value or risks related to the secu
s, if any, may fluctuate and tha
u

be rea

in this

y rating.
of the ideas expressed in this re

port may depend upon an

on may be limited by regulations prohibiting or restricting shortselling in many jurisdictions. Investors are urged

Readers: The protections provided by the U.K. regulatory regime, including the Financial Services Scheme, co not a
h policies relating to conflicts of interest are described at http://go.bofa.com/cci.
ments linked to securities that may ha

Lynch Global Researc
es and financial instruments discussed in this report.
‘A Merrill Lynch Global Research, may have issued and
his report. Such ideas or recommend
der no obligation to ensure that such

fA Merrill Lynch is un

pecifically in
mentioned in this re
earch Reports:

port.

poration. All rights reserved. iQmethod, iQmethod 2.0, iQprofile, iQtoolkit, iQworks are service marks of Ban
of America Corporation. This research report is prepared for the use of BofA Merri

or manner, without the express written consent o
als by BofA Merrill Lynch and are not publicly-avail
ment not to redistribute, retransmi

arch personnel are based on public information. Facts and
| Lynch, including investment bankin

ess groups. As a result, BofA Merrill Lynch does not disclos

icers and employees may be plaintif
e to any such

vestment thesis.
| instruments discussed herein is not intended to provide

ill Lynch is not responsible for the content of any third-par
this report and is not incorporated by reference into this r
third-party website is at your own risk, and you should alw

errill Lynch is not responsible for such terms and privacy
he various jurisdictions in which we distribute research re

fered or sold by Merrill Lynch, are not
instrument or deriva

price or value of such securities and instruments may rise or fal
ure performance. Levels and basis for taxation may change.

relative to other stocks within i

he value, price or income of any security or financial instrument mentioned in this report. Inves

between the recipient and MLPF&S for the provision of research services for a separate fee,

, or disclose to others the contents, opinions, co
recommendations, estimates or price targets) without first obtaining expressed permission from an authorized officer of BofA Merrill Lynch.
have not been reviewed by, and may not reflect

has established information barriers between

h, or compensation received from, such issuers in
ports. To the extent this report discusses any legal proceeding or issues, it has not been prepared as nor is it intended to express any legal conclusion, opinion or advice. Investors
egal advisers as to Issues of law relating to the subject matter of this report. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research personnel’s knowledge of legal proceedings in which
s, defendants, co-defendants or co-plaintiffs wi
proceedings have not been reviewed by, discussed wit
ness areas of BofA Merrill Lynch in connection with the legal proceedings or matters relevant to such proceedings.
port has been prepared independently of any issuer of securities mentioned herein and not in connection with any proposed offering of securities or as agent of
s affiliates or their research analysts has any authority whatsoever to make any representation or warranty on behalf of the issuer(s}. Bo
arch personnel from disclosing a recommendation, investment rating, or investment thesis for review by an issuer prior to the pub

rities in any 0
ng, and not on this report.

insured by the Federal Deposi
ts in general and, derivatives, in particular, in
tive is suitable for all investors. In some cases, securi
rity or financial instrument may be difficult to obtain.

jes and

impacting the issuer or the market tha
erent from and do not affect a stoc

s Coverage Cluster. Short-term trad

her financia
bility of suc

investor's ability to short securities or ot
o seek advice regarding the applica

n regu

pply in general to business coordinated by BofA Merrill

ve been recommended in this report. MLPF&S or one of its

may in the future issue trading ideas or recommendations t
ations reflect the different time frames, assumptions,

other trading ideas or recommendations are brought to the a

has contracted direct

of America Corpora

f BofA Merrill Lynch. BofA Merri
able materials. Any unautl

nclusion, or information con

views presented in this material
g personnel. BofA Merrill Lynch
é certain client relationships wit

hor involving issuers mentioned in
h, and may not reflect in

ax advice or to be used by anyone to provide tax advice. Inves
ec |
y website or any linked content contained in a third-par'
eport. The inclusion of a link in this report does not imply any
ays review the terms and privacy policies at third-party websi
policies and expressly disclaims any liability for them.
ports and other legal and BofA Merrill Lynch policy-re
p the investment recommendation current.

ated res

a

he press or any other person without the express written consent of BofA Merrill Lynch.

inion expressed constitutes an offer or an invitation to make an offer, to buy or sell any securities or
securities or instruments (e.g., options, futures, warrants, and contracts for differences). This report is not intended to provide
bjectives, financial situation and the particular needs of any specific
plementing investment strategies discussed or recommended in

person. Investors should seek
this report and should understand
fering must be based solely on existing public information on such

Insurance Corporation and are not
volve numerous risks, including,

other financial

nvestors should note that
and, in some cases, investors may

is anticipated to have a
's fundamental equity rating, which
ing ideas and recommendations may

instruments and that such
a

ions prior to

ors in such securities and instruments,

Lynch entities

filiates may, at any

hat are inconsistent
views and analytical

tention of any

and in connection
ly and does not extend
with the execution of any

jon. iQanalytics®,

| Lynch clients and may not be redistributed,
Lynch Global Research reports are distributed
horized use or disclosure is prohibited. Receipt and
ained in this report

this report is based

ormation known to,

any issuer of any

A Merrill Lynch

ication of a research

ors are urged to

ts accuracy. This report
y website. Content

endorsement by or
es before

rictions on the

ed or may be Under Review or Extended Review. In each case, investors should consider any investment opinion relating to such issuer (or

instruments) to be suspended or withdrawn and should not rely on the analyses and investment opinion(s) pertaining to such issuer (or its securities and/or

nion(s) be considered a solicitation of any kind. Sales persons and financial advisors affiliated with MLPF&S or any of its affiliates may not

solicit purchases of securities or financial instrumen

his report or its contents.

s that are Restricted or Under Review and may only solicit securities under Extended Review in accordance with firm policies.

either BofA Merrill Lynch nor any officer or employee of BofA Merrill Lynch accepts any liability whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential damages or losses arising from any use of

30 Top 10 US Ideas Quarterly | 03 Janua

ry 2017

BankofAmerica <2”
Merrill Lynch

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014651
