little about policy. He was supposed to be the house intellectual but was purposely unread.
He was supposed to be a communications specialist, but he antagonized almost everyone.
Bannon, during the transition, sent him to the Internet to learn about and to try to draft the
EO.

By the time he arrived in the White House, Bannon had his back-of-the-envelope
executive order on immigration and his travel ban, a sweeping, Trumpian exclusion of
most Muslims from the United States, only begrudgingly whittled down, in part at
Priebus’s urging, to what would shortly be perceived as merely draconian.

In the mania to seize the day, with an almost total lack of knowing how, the nutty
inaugural crowd numbers and the wacky CIA speech were followed, without almost
anybody in the federal government having seen it or even being aware of it, by an
executive order overhauling U.S. immigration policy. Bypassing lawyers, regulators, and
the agencies and personnel responsible for enforcing it, President Trump—with Bannon’s
low, intense voice behind him, offering a rush of complex information—signed what was
put in front of him.

On Friday, January 27, the travel ban was signed and took immediate effect. The result
was an emotional outpouring of horror and indignation from liberal media, terror in
immigrant communities, tumultuous protests at major airports, confusion throughout the
government, and, in the White House, an inundation of lectures, warnings, and
opprobrium from friends and family. What have you done? Do you know what you’re
doing? You have to undo this! You’re finished before you even start! Who is in charge
there?

But Steve Bannon was satisfied. He could not have hoped to draw a more vivid line
between the two Americas—Trump’s and liberals’—and between his White House and the
White House inhabited by those not yet ready to burn the place down.

Why did we do this on a Friday when it would hit the airports hardest and bring out the
most protesters? almost the entire White House staff demanded to know.

“Ertr ... that’s why,” said Bannon. “So the snowflakes would show up at the airports
and riot.” That was the way to crush the liberals: make them crazy and drag them to the
left.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019933
