compared to a 31 point increase for the District). This was a meaningful 86% performing at or above
proficient compared to the District's 52% for 2005. In fifth grade, there was 22 percentage point gain (as
compared to a 15 point gain for the District).

As a result of these scores, the 3rd and 5th grade Year over Year PSSA Math Gains

students met or exceeded the absolute AYP ig eee

goals for math instruction - a first for the school. (2004 to 2005 % point increase)
(Note: k12 did not supply the Reading curriculum, Third Grade
therefore, only Math results are applicable to the

k12 program). Hunter 46
These gains are an extraordinary achievement for District 31

a school and its district. They are also difficult to

maintain over time, however this goal is shared Fifth Grade

between the District and k12. The Hunter School

accomplished these gains through the staff's hard Hunter 22

work, commitment to their students and —

dedication to implementing the k12 program. District 15

New programs often take two to three years to generate similar results. While k12 and the Hunter staff
are pleased with the first year’s results, it is only the beginning of a longer effort because, despite the
gains, more than half of last year’s fifth graders still did not score at or above their grade level. Therefore,
although there is pride in the progress, the overall scores demonstrate how much more is to be done.

13.5. Direct to Consumer (3% of 2006E Revenue)

k12 sells its curriculum direct to consumers who either home school their children or use k12’s curriculum
to supplement their child’s education. k12 believes that it offers children and their parents an education
comparable to that offered in the nation’s best public and private schools, utilizing optimal multimedia
methods and research-tested approaches to learning. In addition, integrated assessments allow a parent
to test his or her child’s mastery of skills and enables the child to progress at the appropriate pace.
Children can move faster through lessons and address more challenging problems, while other children
can spend the additional time needed to master certain skills. With k12’s high standards and integrated
assessments, a parent can be confident that his or her child has mastered the subject. k12 considers this
market a growth area.

Educating a child at home full time or part time is a time-consuming and daunting task for parents.
Parents and caregivers spend a considerable amount of time searching for curriculum and trying to
ensure they are teaching the material adequately to their children. k12 offers a solution to this challenge
by offering a comprehensive curriculum for students in grades K-9, complete with specific daily lessons.
Parents can purchase individual or multiple courses. Although small, the home-schooling market is
growing at a healthy pace. Approximately 1.1 million students—roughly 2% of total K-12 enrollment—
were home-schooled in spring 2003, according to the National Center for Education Statistics (NCES).
This represents a roughly 30% increase from spring 1999. Most home school parents cited concerns
about the school environment (31%), interest in providing religious instruction (30%) and_ overall
dissatisfaction with academic instruction (16%) as their reasons for home schooling their children.*°

The exam is also used in assessing performance toward No Child Left Behind guidelines for grades 3, 5, 9 and 11. The goal of the exam is for
students to score at or above proficient levels. Student results are also used fo determine a school and district's performance in meeting pre-
determined goals known as Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP).

°° Source: Harris Nesbitt, Education and Training, September 2005.

110

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024543
