From: jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com>
Date: Thursday, November 16, 2017 at 3:26 PM

To: Steven Pfeiffer 7, Peggy Siegal <I E- Richard Kahn
<
Subject: Re: 2017 IFP Gotham Awards

happy to buy your 10k of chairs and will need me plus 3 seats.

On Thu, Nov 16, 2017 at 1:36 PM, Steven Pfeiffer (> wrote:
Hello Jeffrey —

| hope all is well with you. As per Peggy Siegal’s office, | have included here the invitation to the IFP Gotham Awards
ceremony, which will be held on Monday, November 27 at Cipriani Wall Street in New York City.

This year’s ceremony is going to be another successful event. We couldn’t be more thrilled with this year’s impressive
group of Tributees. The Actress Tribute will go to Nicole Kidman and the Actor Tribute to Dustin Hoffman. The Director
Tribute will be given to Sofia Coppola, with the Cinematographer Tribute going to Ed Lachman. With the Industry
Tribute, we will be honoring Jason Blum, founder of Blumhouse Productions. And we simply couldn’t be more pleased
to honor Vice President Al Gore with this year’s special Humanitarian Tribute. With nominees this year ranging

from Willem Dafoe, Adam Sandler and Robert Pattison to Margot Robbie, Lois Smith and Mary J. Blige, this year’s
ceremony looks to be the most star studded ever.

Please let me know if you have any questions.

Best regards,
Steven

Steven Pfeiffer
Associate Director, Development
Independent Filmmaker Project

Made in NY Media Center by IFP
30 John Street
Brooklyn, NY 11201

a

www.ifp.org

<image002.png>

please note
The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of
JEE
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited
and may be unlawful. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031297
