of life was just mind blowing to even comprehend at first. With such a
new outlook of the world to try and grasp at my young age I was listening
to every word spoken to me with such attentiveness, I was going to try
and mode! what I was observing from the girls. I justified their way of
thinking in my head for now, thinking if all these girls seem happy
enough, why couldn’t I try to be, it was this or the streets for me.

Ron came back for me not long after our conversation got out of hand
and took me to a bathroom down the hall. He opened the tap and filled a
small plastic cup with water and handed me two small blue oval pills.
Telling me to take them both as they would help me to relax a little bit
more. I swallowed the pills just following his orders. I put the cup on the
counter top and turned back around to face him. Backing me up against
the wall and now cornered by this large man I felt his slithering hands
began to creep under my shirt, writhing my skin. 1 closed my eyes tightly
and turned my head away from him, hoping he would take my actions as
a sign of being extremely uncomfortable but that wouldn’t bother him at
all. He was half enjoying my reaction from the smug look on his face,
and persisted through it.

Continuing to undress my clothes he said he wanted to look me over
and clean me up. It was so humiliating having to expose myself to this
ageing man and now I knew he was going to end up with his hands and
whatever else all over me. All too soon | hated to be right, as I stood
naked before his widened eyes, he told me “you’re a hairy bugger PII
have to shave you right up young lady”, and I didn’t know he wasn’t just
talking about my legs. Standing with my legs wide apart while this man
coaxed me through the entire ordeal of shaving, his hands made me feel
so dirty. “Have I lost my mind?” I thought to myself but I had to play
nice until { had an opportunity to get away, this was not as fun as the girls
made it out to be after all, this was utterly disgusting. I had no idea what
was going to happen next with this guy, and due to whatever
pharmaceuticals he gave me, I still don’t know to this day.

Waking up the next morning my head was pounding in an agonizing
thumping pain and I was so thirsty. The satin sheets thankfully covered
my body, which was still nude from the night before, and T could hear
hushed voices standing over the bed where I was pretending to still be
asleep. Listening in on their conversation T kept my eyes shut. I knew
Ron’s voice from two of the men but not recognizing the other guys I just
stayed quiet hoping they’d soon leave. Ron was telling the other man
what atrocities he got up to the night before with me and I heard him say,
“Doesn't she even look like an ange! the way she sleeps? She’s my own
little angel!” He exclaimed proudly. | opened my eyes and rolled over to
face them both having to wrap the sheets over my body, really not
knowing what to say except “Good-morning” in a blushful tone. Ron

11 Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004 138

introduced me to his business partner and told to go get dressed. He had
my whole day planned out for me already. Booked into get my hair
colored, a much lighter tint of blonde, and afterwards a day of shopping
with the girls I was becoming exactly what he wanted me too, a carbon
copy of the teenage Barbie... only I wasn’t plastic and came with many
benefits.

Days tured into weeks, being a servant to the sexual desires of this
distorted pervert. I dreamt of escaping but where would I go and how
would I get away from Ron with him controlling my every second of my
day. Separating myself from the other girls being so uncomfortable with
enduring the everyday occurrences I was longing for the solitude of the
beach again. They were training me up to be an escort prodigy or
something like it. Outrageous orgies were conducted as my lessons with
the girls teaching me all of their tricks in the game, it was all for the sake
of men’s perverted fantasies, they didn’t get anything from being sexually
exploited and molesting each other, except getting paid for it. Everything
from oral sex too penetration with toys, | was expected to not only to join
in but even perform ludicrous acts of hedonism.

1 was Thirteen years old and had never heard the terminology of these
sexual acts before, and definitely shouldn’t have been learning them first
hand. Thrown into a world of chaos, | didn’t know what to do except be
as compliant as possible, even when asked to do the most degrading
tasks. The excitement of the lifestyle he offered quickly diminished once
I had to pay so dearly for it. The girls that subdued to this lifestyle and
enjoyed it definitely put on a good act, but no little girl with hopes and
dreams of their untainted future, turns to her mother and say’s “one day |
dream of being a prostitute, passed around from man to man, only to
grow older regretting so much of my life” It was all a part of an illusion
that Ron painted for us that made it seem so alluring in the first place.

Spending my days with Ron, he took advantage at every chance given.
Even in his convertible with the top down I would be forced to go topless
while he drove around, when I asked him why one day, it was supposedly
so I could maintain an even suntan, but I knew it was his way of showing
off his treasures. It was a far cry from the simple country life Thad been
raised in. Wearing designer miniskirts and tops that always revealed too
much, of course due to Ron and the girls determining everything I wore,
ate, or spoke. We would spend our days at hair laser clinics, shopping,
tanning beds, and eating as little as possible. Through the nights we were
expected to become party animals and greet Ron’s clientele with the
upmost flirtatious attention and doting as possible. Then whether we were
out for dinner, at a party, or ata club, the men would choose his girl and
take her home. Every girl had a different price and so did the charges
depending on the various clienteles but Ron always kept me for himself.

OD Copyright Protected Material

GIUTEREGO4 139

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021147
