DANN Bw NE

has

KO ONE RON

(Therenpon, the following interview w nd:)

BY DETECTIVE RFCAREY

Q Today's date is October 4th, 2005. ‘This is 1D
number 7915 Detective Joe Reearey of the Palm Beach Police
Department. Present at 1301 (inaudible) Road is Detective
Michael Dawson of the Palm Beach Police Department.

And can you shite your name for the record?
how do vou spell your Jast name?

Okay. How old are you!

I'm 18.

Taghteen, Okay. You're currently in college?
Yeah,

Okay. What college are you attending?

Okay. And your dats ef birth is?

Okay. Can you raise your right hand for me? Do
you solemnly swear to lell the truth, the whole truth and
nothing but the truth so help you God?
A Yes.
Q Okay EE if you could tell me From the :
ipstein. | know you have some

information and we are conducting an investigation, We were
here last mght, spoke with vour mom and dad. Tfyou ean :
just start from the bepmning as to how you met him.

A Okay

Q And how i came about.

A | (Audio 1:26)

Q Okay. Tlow long ago was that?

A Itweus probably about almost a year ago.

Q Okay. Okay

A

of scared me when | went there so | just decided nat to go
back.

Q Okay. The first time you wenr with BEE aid yon
go upstairs with him? :

A No, J slaved down in the kitchen. (Andio at 2:03):

Q Okay. Didlrel! vou that -- what was i
entailed as 10 what had to be donc?

A Well she said the first time vou go it's just like :
amassage and she said like well, the more sou go supposedly |
the more he bke expects and staris Mirting with girls and
that’s what kind of like scared me.

QQ Okay. I’ve sntersiewed other gitls and thev've

the mass

Pow RyInunewWwnek

there's more fo that. More to the massage. Okay”? ‘That's
why | didnt want more to be in here. And you can talk lo me
about anything. Okav? Like } said, I've interviewed other
people already who have tok me what Wanspired in that
room. I know it's going to be difficult for you but...

A Well, the hirst trme | went there ? did a massage
and he was just asking mea Jot of questions. He seemed
Dke really mice. And then he kept like staring al me and
stuff, And ther like } did a massage and he just kept
looking atr vas hike oh, you're bemp shy and I'm
like yeu.

c yeah

And he was like why are you like being shy and I was like
oh, 1 don't know. And then he would Itke change the subject
and he started talking about other things. And then when we
were done he said that if hike [wanted to come back and do

more then he would like pay me more and then T would have tof

talk to Haley and [ could come back.

Q Okay. What kind of questions did he ask you as
you Were massaging him?

A He was asking about -- it was a year ago. | don't
remember evervuune but...

Q Right.

A Fle was just asking me iP bad any friends that

Page 5

might want to give a taussage and [ said T doen't know. ‘Shen
he asked me about what ] wanted to de when T grew up and
stuff like that and ] asked him what he did and he said he
was like a scientist basically

Q Okay. Pid he ever ask you how old you were?

A No. {Audio at 4:08)

Q No. Did he know that vou were 17?

A No, I don't Uunk so.

Q Wellit would have been 16 if it was a year ae,
night?

A) Wellithike was almost a vear age, (maudible)
17.

Q. Okay. During the massage did you -- were vou
naked or --

A No. Thad my clothes cn

Q You had afl vour clothes on?

A Uh-hoh.

Q Okay. Did be touch vou in apy way?

A He was like kind of like leaning towards it but |
was hke you could tell [ was shy so E think that's why he
didn't wy. But | heard about other girls that be -- that
he gol ‘irtatious with them and he snade them take off (heir
clothes and stuif.

Q Okay. Whal -- that was the first (ame you went,
right?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012360

02421
