k12 Management

Ron Packard, Chairman and Founder

Mr. Packard serves as Chairman of the Executive Committee of k12 and as acting Chief Executive Officer.
Prior to co-founding k12 and since 1997, Mr. Packard has been an executive officer of KU Schools,
whose subsidiaries and business ventures include early childhood education, charter school education,
and after school programs. From 1994 to 1997, Mr. Packard served as President of Forestal Trillium
Limitada, a South American company. Mr. Packard also has worked as a consultant for McKinsey &
Company and a mergers and acquisitions specialist at Goldman Sachs. Mr. Packard also serves on the
Advisory Board for Department of Defense Schocls. Mr. Packard holds a B.S. and B.A. from the
University of California at Berkeley and an M.B.A. from the University of Chicago. He is also a Chartered
Financial Analyst.

John Baule, Executive Vice President of Operations and Chief Financial Officer

Mr. Baule previously served as CFO for Headstrong, a global consultancy based in Fairfax, Virginia, from 1999
to 2004. At Headstrong he was responsible for activities ranging from raising funds, to strategy, to daily
process improvement on a global basis. Mr. Baule acted as Mead-Johnson's CFO in their international office in
Hong Kong. Prior to Headstrong, Mr. Baule spent nine years at Bristol Myers-Squibb in a variety of
international accounting and finance roles. Mr. Baule began his career at KPMG. He holds a B.B.A, in
accounting from the College of William and Mary in Williamsburg, VA.

Bror Saxberg, Senior Vice President, Learning and Content

Bror Saxberg serves as Senior Vice President of Learning and Content of k12. From 1998 to 2000, Dr.
Saxberg served as Vice President of Operations at Knowledge Testing Enterprises, a developer of Web-
based assessments for IT skills, where he was responsible for technology, testing and operations. From
1995 to 1997, Dr. Saxberg served as Publisher and General Manager of DK Multimedia, and he has also
worked as a consultant for McKinsey & Co. Dr. Saxberg holds a B.S. from the University of Washington,
an M.A. from Oxford University, a Ph.D. from MIT and an M.D. from Harvard University.

Thomas Boysen, Senior Vice President, Chief School Officer

Mr. Boysen serves as Senior Vice President and Chief School Officer of k12. Previously, ha was COO of
the Los Angeles Unified School District. Prior to this, Mr. Boysen was State Commissioner of Education
in the State of Kentucky. He has aiso served as superintendent of schools for the San Diego Unified and
Conejo Valley Unified school districts.

Charles Zogby, Senior Vice President, Education Policy

Mr. Zogby, serves as Senior Vice President of Education Policy. Previously, he served as Secretary of
Education for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, where he helped craft one of the most successful and
comprehensive education reform agendas in modern Pennsylvania history and lead the state’s
development and legislative passage of the U.S.’ first comprehensive cyber charter school law. Prior to
his appointment, Mr. Zogby served as Pennsylvania Gov. Ridge’s policy director, where he was
responsible for coordinating policy development and initiatives across 18 executive branch agencies, Mr.
Zogby earned a bachelor’s degree in economics from St. Lawrence University and his law degree, with
distinction, from George Mason University School of Law.

John Holdren, Senior Vice President, Curriculum

Mr. Holdren serves as Senior Vice President of Curriculum of k12. From 1997 to 2000, Mr. Holdren
served as Vice President and Director of Research and Publications at Core Knowledge Foundation.
While at Core Knowledge Foundation, Mr. Holdren oversaw the development of the Core Knowledge
Sequence: Content Guidelines for Grades K-8 and co-edited the Core Knowledge Series resource books.
Mr. Holdren also has taught literature and writing at the University of Virginia and Harvard University. Mr.
Holdren holds a B.A. from The Johns Hopkins University and an M.A. from the University of Virginia.

157

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024590
