Suddenly, the question of how the president might respond to the attack in Khan
Sheikhoun was a litmus test for normality and those who hoped to represent it in Trump’s
White House. Here was the kind of dramatic juxtaposition that might make for a vivid and
efficient piece of theater: people working in the Trump White House who were trying to
behave normally.

OOK Ok

Surprisingly, perhaps, there were quite a few such people.

Acting normal, embodying normality—doing things the way a striving, achieving,
rational person would do them—was how Dina Powell saw her job in the White House. At
forty-three, Powell had made a career at the intersection of the corporate world and public
policy; she did well (very, very well) by doing good. She had made great strides in George
W. Bush’s White House and then later at Goldman Sachs. Returning to the White House at
a penultimate level, with at least a chance of rising to one of the country’s highest
unelected positions, would potentially be worth enormous sums when she returned to the
corporate world.

In Trumpland, however, the exact opposite could happen. Powell’s carefully cultivated
reputation, her brand (and she was one of those people who thought intently about their
personal brand), could become inextricably tied to the Trump brand. Worse, she could
become part of what might easily turn into historical calamity. Already, for many people
who knew Dina Powell—and everybody who was anybody knew Dina Powell—the fact
that she had taken a position in the Trump White House indicated either recklessness or
seriously bad judgment.

“How,” wondered one of her longtime friends, “does she rationalize this?” Friends,
family, and neighbors asked, silently or openly, Do you know what you’re doing? And how
could you? And why would you?

Here was the line dividing those whose reason for being in the White House was a
professed loyalty to the president from the professionals they had needed to hire. Bannon,
Conway, and Hicks—along with an assortment of more or less peculiar ideologues that
had attached themselves to Trump and, of course, his family, all people without clearly
monetizable reputations before their association with Trump—were, for better or worse,
hitched to him. (Even among dedicated Trumpers there was always a certain amount of
holding their breath and constant reexamination of their options.) But those within the
larger circle of White House influence, those with some stature or at least an imagined
stature, had to work through significantly more complicated contortions of personal and
career justification.

Often they wore their qualms on their sleeves. Mick Mulvaney, the OMB director,
made a point of stressing the fact that he worked in the Executive Office Building, not the
West Wing. Michael Anton, holding down Ben Rhodes’s former job at the NSC, had

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020022
