ao

eer Ge
ee

=?
OAL IN Lote

v0) PB RAE eH
we gh

fa Me

!

Lie

you upstairs?

A Yeah.

Q. Okay. How does she take you upstairs? How did
vou --

A She just sar follow me.

Q Did she -- did you go up a big staircase? Litle
starrease? '

A Itwas ike a living room. {1 was the kitchen and
then a iving room and you tumed right and then it was like
a Staircase that would hke | pness it's kind of-- like
spirals.

Q Okay. Did she take you to where’?

A lt kind of looked like a bathroom but there was no
toilets. It was a cold room and it had like a sauna in
there.

QQ Okay.

A Abdip sauna. Just a table where he was going to

lay on. A place where you could wash your hands and iv just: 7!

kind of looked like it was a room for that.

Q Okay, Okay. So take me from there.

A He turned the lights dewn some and be was on the
phone. [He's hike oh. just Qnaudible) lotions are here and
vou can sla by rubbing iny feet. So | put some Jotion,
tubbed his feet. and then he tokl me to rub his calves, his
Jees or whatever. And then Pm trying to remember. And

Yeah. and then he wanted me to rub his back. J started up

top and then he kept asking me to vo ower and Jower and he
sui! had the towel on at uns point and then when | got
tight io where bis -- right above his like butt like kid of
nght above here --

Q. Ub-heh.

A -- he like {lipped over and he just told me to
like stan rubbing like bis stomach and stuff Jéke that and
his chest and then he told me, he's like why don't vou just
take off your shirt and pants. [ was Hike (inaudible), so |
did that and then --

Q You had your shirt and pants on when you were
rubbing his leet and calves?

A Uh-buh.

Q Okay. You took olf your pants 2nd shirt.

A Uh-huh.

Q. Okav.

A And then hke he got more Gmaudibic) and he took
otf his towel.

Q Okay.

A 1 dor’t really Eke know why he was doing that but
end then he -- he was kind of like talking 10 me like trying
to get to know me about my sex fe He's like oh. you're
such a beautifud girl, He's lke well what are you like
when you have sex. I didn’t really answer him. [ was like.

Pade

well. Tdorr't really like todo anything. (Inaudible) a

massage. That's it. And he’s hke oh, but you're so
beautiful. And he kept saying ihat for some reason.

Q. Allright. Let me stop you for a secand. When he
took ol fhis tawel. was be completely naked?

A \h-huh, Yes.

Q Okay. And you were in bra and panties?

A Uh huh.

Q Okay. Okay. Take me trom there. So he took off
his towel. he's lething you how beautiful you are.

A And he teld me. he told me to mb his nipples like
he's like oh. just pinch them or something. And | was like
allright. And then be had one hand on his P.

Q. Okay.

A And tien he like ined rubbing on my prives
(phonetic) and he had like the imddle of my bra was the snap
of parl and he ke snapped it off and be was tying to
feel my boobs and then he jusi grabbed my thighs and he was

jacking humsell off at the same time und then he went down
to -- sbould Tsay that?

Q. Savit

A My vagina.
BY DETECTIVE DAWSON:

QQ We've beard if all

A Yeah. And he like didn't take off my panties but

Li

he like pushed them to the side and he's like {celing down
there and he's tike don't worry. don't worry. I'm not going
to go in, dada da. [t's so weird. Tm lke anyway. And
then he stared rubbing dewn there and then he started
talksug dirty. He's like ah, your clit feels so hard and
stuff And {like backed away. I was like (inaudible).

Q Okay. AC any time did you tell him no? Did you
tel] hin yeu're not comfortable with this?

A PLeucked away and T said [was like well. [don’t
know if E shoule do that and 1 was like very hesitant and so
seared that] didn’t know what to do. Kind of Jike you just
Want to eetilover with to get tover with, And then --
and f was fecling so tense. } guess that’s why he was
saying it. And then he actually stuck his fingers in there
and 1 backed away again. He goes oh. don't worry. don't
worry And te's bike okay. Pm sorry. Then he went Back to
the outside and he was still jerking himisell off and then

finally he finished himself. wrapped up his towel and said
there was $200 0n the counter amd then there’s an extra
hundred for Hfe’s itke oh. I'd like to see you
again. | was [ike yeah. | don't know.

Q Okay. Let me bring yeu back to when he snapped
olf your bra.
A Uh-huh,
Q When he snapped it off. did you take it off or did

3 (Pades @ ta 9)

J. Consor & Associates Reporting & Transcription
961.682.0905

98aeb4ed-fabf-461a-bSd2-be85289cc56a

Q1912

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012348
