ELECTION DAY

n the afternoon of November 8, 2016, Kellyanne Conway—Donald Trump’s
() campaign manager and a central, indeed starring, personality of Trumpworld—
settled into her glass office at Trump Tower. Right up until the last weeks of the race, the
Trump campaign headquarters had remained a listless place. All that seemed to distinguish
it from a corporate back office were a few posters with right-wing slogans.

Conway now was in a remarkably buoyant mood considering she was about to
experience a resounding if not cataclysmic defeat. Donald Trump would lose the election
—of this she was sure—but he would quite possibly hold the defeat to under 6 points.
That was a substantial victory. As for the looming defeat itself, she shrugged it off: it was
Reince Priebus’s fault, not hers.

She had spent a good part of the day calling friends and allies in the political world and
blaming Priebus. Now she briefed some of the television producers and anchors with
whom she’d built strong relationships—and with whom, actively interviewing in the last
few weeks, she was hoping to land a permanent on-air job after the election. She’d
carefully courted many of them since joining the Trump campaign in mid-August and
becoming the campaign’s reliably combative voice and, with her spasmodic smiles and
strange combination of woundedness and imperturbability, peculiarly telegenic face.

Beyond all of the other horrible blunders of the campaign, the real problem, she said,
was the devil they couldn’t control: the Republican National Committee, which was run
by Priebus, his sidekick, thirty-two-year-old Katie Walsh, and their flack, Sean Spicer.
Instead of being all in, the RNC, ultimately the tool of the Republican establishment, had
been hedging its bets ever since Trump won the nomination in early summer. When
Trump needed the push, the push just wasn’t there.

That was the first part of Conway’s spin. The other part was that despite everything,
the campaign had really clawed its way back from the abyss. A severely underresourced
team with, practically speaking, the worst candidate in modern political history—Conway
offered either an eye-rolling pantomime whenever Trump’s name was mentioned, or a

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019890
