Palm House Robert Matthews EB-5 Clintons Trump Tony Bennett https://therealdeal.com/miami/issues_articles/lost-paradise-at-th...

3 of 10

MHyoo

~ SOUTH FLORIDA REAL ESTATE NEWS
Q SUBSCRIBE MY ACCOUNT

Matthews, 61, gave investors the impression that he was a well-known luxury hotel
developer with a global track record, including completed projects in New York, Bora

Bora and Mexico. There is no evidence of him completing these projects.

Instead, his past dealings were mired in controversy and litigation, including another
failed condo-hotel project in Nantucket called the Point Breeze that was forced into

bankruptcy in 2010.

Matthews, who was raised in Massachusetts, moved to Connecticut in the mid-80s
after dropping out of college and started buying up apartments and commercial
properties in Waterbury. Locals there began drawing comparisons between Matthews
and the fictional Jay Gatsby due to his ritzy parties and expensive tastes, according to
the Hartford Courant.

He owned a 108-foot yacht named the Bon Vivant and claimed to possess North
Carolina's original Bill of Rights, which had been stolen by a Union soldier in 1865
and was recovered by the FBI just over 10 years ago. Adding to the Gatsby
comparisons, Matthews became close with Connecticut’s then-governor, John
Rowland, in the 90s.

The developer used his political connections to secure favorable contracts with the
state government, allowing him to purchase government-owned property, among
other things, according to the New York Times. To return the favor, Matthews
allegedly bought a condo in Washington, D.C., from Rowland through a straw buyer
in 1997 for nearly 20 percent more than what the governor had originally paid.

The condo sale and other business dealings eventually led to a corruption
investigation into Rowland. But Matthews was never charged. So, he headed to South
Florida where he first bought the historic Palm House — which needed substantial
repairs — in 2006. Then six years later, Matthews began soliciting EB-5 investors for

what he called Palm Beach's last opportunity to build a “five-star hotel”

6/26/19, 11:57 AM

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029522
