sales. sec irs. gaming. foreign reporting. the 8865 mess will take months to review now. . you

CANNOT file unreviewed audited documents. .CANNOT!!! _ this will be very detailed work. . a self
inflicted wound - all avoidable if professionals had been in place to limit . or contain it. . . you will need

3 new hires .as there is no one in your office that is truly an A player. I have great hope in Barry as you
know. He will need to be trained. note

; One year is my guesstimate After 4 years of telling you , that you could do better than Halperin, : im glad
that you now are willing to follow barrys advice . I take no offense , in fact I take comfort in the fact that after
only one conversation with Barry you are now convinced to make that change . will take a year or more.

I expect as a friend you will understand that

I will no longer , not even for one day , work on your affairs . without the compensation that is long
overdue. . your unilateral idea of after care , not imposed on any other professional , except me, not paul
weiss ,( caesars alone , a direct screw up on their part ) tom, akin, , no one. needs toend.. you and I had
previously agreed no more of that , and this after you decided not to pay me per our agreement. to be fair I can
not say im surprised as you have email after email , stating that , if you save a great deal of money, you
wont want to pay , so limit it to 40m per year. - water under the bridge

If I can find the time to work , on your project , which is not by any means certain as I have said, I hope
you understand that it now will have to be under my standard terms and conditions. and well documented so as
to avoid any more of the he said she said. I never want to have any more uncomfortable money moments with
you , I find it very distasteful. . soto be clear , my terms are as follows. I will only work for the usual 40
million per year. It needs to be paid, 25 million upon signing an agreement . 5 million every 2 months
thereafter for 6 months ie march may june . this can begin ifi am able in January. I will immediately stop
work , if the payment is not received. If you want me to work this year until Jan 15, it will be 10
million. paid upfront. after one year you will be left with a new estate plan a running office. staffed with
professionals overseen by Barry. (hallelujah ) a tax plan . and an investment that returns more than any
painting you could possible own. _. no agreement - no work. however - I of course will talk to Barry for the
hour that i promised , and take your guidance as to what I should say.

Date: Tue, Nov 29, 2016 at 1:27 AM

Subject: so there is no misunderstanding

To: Melanie Spincll iit

Ihave told the brads and barry,- Iam done. its not a negotiation , out !!- fyi given my carlyn joslin

castrucci, admonishments,- though my involvement in those - in one instance only gave a name - in

another only given an eileen dictated choice btween two 250k preparers. and for castrucci, I actually sent

emails that i take no responsiblity for his being hired. - however you felt strongly that I should be saddled

with their outcomes .even with brad wechsler , 1 again said two months in, Leon, he doesnt get it. I tell you

this so that you will understand that I will not interview, recommend or vet any new hire.

A story - In 1993 trump and I had a friend that kept telling his pilots how to fly , and when to fly , he couldnt

help himself from hiring morons as co pilots, and maintenance people based on cheapest rates. Donald and I

tried and tried to talk some sense into him, to no avail. Donald and I were in aspen, sitting at little

nells. when the friends plane crashed into the side of aspen mountain , klliing him and all on board,- Trump

looked at me and said without a blink , I guess NOW he wishes he would have listened to us.- a metaphor for

your office.. . had we not waited to the very last hour having had a six month window and tens of

unasnwered text and emails re decisions needed including the 1031. you would have saved way more than

you often feel obliged to argue about. . silly buti reallize you are stressed.

Barry will need to sit with brad for months, to absorb all the co's , structures. cash flow, financial statments

etc. I will present barry my thoughts on the overall redo _, it will be the exact same email that 1 presented to

you and brad two years.ago . accurate numbers first. and foremost. .( last week gaming report stil

funky). IT ete I pointed out some of the more glaring errors to barry to give him a flavor of what is to come.
Tuesday if you like we should discuss Giacometti , and pesner . difficult to finesse him if they are

filing documents that you won't. these ridiculous conversations with tons of people on the phone , removes

any claim you might have to not be considered a WILLFUL NON-FILER . ( after youve been told by attnys

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023331
