surrounded by the flora! green carpet of mossy grass that covered the
earthly skyscraper and falling fog, it was like being carried to heaven or
the closest thing to it! Taking my eyes off the scenery and catching him
adoringly staring at me again, I welled up with unstoppable tears. “I am
so lucky, is this really happening?” He squeezed my hands and replied
back “‘You’re the only one for me...I love you!” relieving the anxiety
written all over my tear stained face.

Chapter 22

Getting out of the carriage we were greeted by good fortune from the
Gods above. A sun shower cascaded over us at we advanced into the
ancient holy temple. My tears of joy dried and my happiness was glowing
for all to see. The many visitors to the temple stopped and took photos of
the passing bride and groom, no other foreigners had ever been married
there and certainly anyone wearing traditional western wedding attire,
such a sight had never been seen behind these religious walls, we became
a permanent icon at the temple. The ceremony was done in the Buddhist
customs according to their ancestral accordance, and translated for us in
our own language. Both Robbie and I were anointed with a blessing from
the monk with a splash of water and seven sacramental bracelets, each
one representing another meaning to the longevity of our union together.
We signed our names in the Buddhist wedding registry of Doi Cept
Temple and officially became Mr. & Mrs. Roberts at least officially in
our hearts knowing the laws of Australia only recognize certified
weddings, meaning when we got back to his homeland we’d have to
make a run for the courthouse. This was our real wedding though, perfect
down to every detail. Walking up to the highest point of the temple to the
balcony hanging over the edge of a cliff side over looking the city of
Chang-Mai, we knew we had found the perfect spot to recite our vows of
love to each other. Providing everything for me and more than I could
ever ask for, his vows were to love me unconditionally until death do we
part, shelter me from all the cruelty in the world that I was so accustomed
too and to be like the bear, because the bear never forgets. Tears once
again streamed down from my eyes as he made this moment
unforgettable. Wiping the mascara fading undermeath my eyelids whilst
giggling at my embarrassment | took his hands back into mine again and
gave him the vows that were the sacred prepared words from my heart.
My ears were thundering the sound of a million horses hoofs descending
downhill and my heart was beating so fast my words barely trembled out
of my mouth when I began to tell him how much he had changed my

129

J Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL.

whole life around and how I would dedicate my entire being to loving
him and only him until | blew my final breath.

I meant every word that I said to him, this was it for me, wanting
nothing more out of life than to be with someone like him to raise a few
kids together and grow old on the front porch letting the days fade us by.
I know it probably sounds boring to most and it would’ve to me as well
many years ago but after the life | had led, I had enough experience in the
real world for my liking and now all I want to do is to enjoy the
remaining days of my life for what it is...a simple and satisfying
existence. Our day was so special but not only to us, even too the Monk
that married us. Upon our descent down the lifts he asked if he could take
a photo with the bride and groom in front of their symbolic liberty bell
signifying the union between east and west. It represented a lot for us too,
it was the commencement of a new life together and just the beginning of
battling each other’s past demons together.

Kissing the bridal party goodbye, who were just the local girls I had
met on some of our many nights out of having fun. | threw my arranged
bouquet of Thailand’s white wedding floras mixed with colorful orchids
to the screaming Thai women behind me and we were given one last
tradition to take with us, the release of caged doves. It was such an
incredible gesture, especially for me. Symbolizing their freedom as well
as mine I opened the cage’s door to let them free to decide our own fates.
As the wings on the birds began to spread open and they took their final
decent into the blue skies granting themselves freedom | knew mine had
finally come too. The relevance of watching them fly away and how I had
perceived my own day of marriage related to the identical feeling of
fleeing an entrapment of my own kind. | was liberated from the bounds of
slavery I had come to know over the many years I had spent with my fair
share of greedy perverted old men only to have serendipity mend my
scars with the powerful healing of what true love has to endeavor on.

As customary in the romance novels I had read as a young girl he
picked me up in the hallway before our hotel suite and carried me over
the threshold, poufy dress and all. My arms were tightly squeezed around
his neck never once taking my eyes off of him until he revealed yet
another sweet surprise. Besides the cleaners tiding up my room while we
were gone they were also given instructions by none other than the groom
himself to pick the petals off the stems of red roses to place on our bed in
the shape of a giant heart. The rose petals led the way to where we
consummated our love physically and it was undeniably the first time in
my life I had really ever been made love too. Hours had passed by before
we thought about anything else besides one another’s words of arousal,
tantalizing touches, and lingering kisses. We ate a quiet dinner ata local
restaurant and went straight back to the arms of each other again, so

130

G Copyright Protected Material

GIUTFRLE004263

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021209
