In addition to H7, Hy and AC, if computable in a meaningful way, the
deviation of the binary series under study from the idealized random behavior of a
fair coin could serve as another index of complexity. Common descriptions of the
amount of randomness in a series are indices of run length If a run length is defined
by number of elements in a series of the same symbol before it stops, counting the
number of run boundaries by reading along the binary series and counting the
number of switches from 0 —+1 or 1 — 0, then the binary expression of 729,
1011011001, has six runs. The great analytic probabilist, William Feller, among
many others, including the distinguished 18 Century Swiss family of
mathematicians, the Bernoulli's, proved that computing a standard run score, srs,
involves three terms, the theoretical expectation, E, of the number of runs, r, that is
E(r), the number of runs actually observed, Obs(r) and the variance of the
expectation of the number of runs, Var( E(r). If the srs is less than zero, then the
binary series is more random than that resulting from the flipping of a fair coin.
Interestingly, when a normal group of subjects are instructed to simulate what they
think of as a random coin flip determined series of 0’s and 1’s, their srs tends to be
lower than zero, over-estimating the degree of irregularity that randomness
represents. Long runs occur by chance far more often than intuition would dictate. If
srs is more than zero, than the binary, coin-flip series is more ordered than random.
If srs equal to zero, the binary series is not discriminable from fair coin flipping
randomness.

The expected number of runs, E(r), can be estimated by a fraction formed by
twice the product of the number of heads times tails divided by the sum of the

2x6x4

heads and tails to which is added one. That is, E(r) = ZA
+

+1=5.8. The average

variation around this expectation called the variance, Var, of the expectation,
Var(E(r)), is estimated by a fraction formed by (take a breath) twice the product of
the number of heads times tails x twice the product of the number of heads times
tails minus the number of heads and minus the number of tails, all over the product

of the sum of the heads and tails squared, times the sum of the number of heads

111

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013611
