38

journals, shorter “policy briefs,” or “op-eds,” and by contributing to policy “task
force” reports on specific issues; holding public seminars, briefings, and conferences;
speaking to the print, television, radio, and electronic media; and maintaining
informational websites that disseminate publications of the think-tank videos of
events on a worldwide basis.

The second role is to influence government policy. This is done through face-to-
face meetings with government officials, providing testimony before congressional
committees, track-two discussions, emails and other communications aimed at
targeted audiences, and a wide variety of publications.

The third role, undertaken by some, but not all, US policy think tanks, is to provide
specific research on a contractual basis for government agencies that is generally not
for public consumption.

The fourth role is to provide personnel to go into government service for fixed periods
of time through the famous American “revolving door,” whereby think tanks become
“governments in waiting” for ex- and would-be officials until just after an election,
when there is usually a large-scale turnover of personnel in Washington as each new
administration is formed.

In American think tanks, selection of general research topics can be influenced by
outside sources (management, external funding agencies, or government policy
shifts). But the final selection is usually subject to mutual agreement, and the findings
of research are not supposed to be dictated by outside pressures. At the same time,
both US think tanks and university research institutes are expected to maintain
analytical independence from their funders. If the funding body does seek to interfere
with a research project or promote its own agenda, there is an established expectation
that its funding should be rejected. More often than not, there is a process of
mutual consultation between researcher, think tank, and potential external

funding bodies—through which interests are de-conflicted and grants are negotiated
to the mutual satisfaction of all parties. While this is the optimal scenario, there have
been cases revealed in the US media in recent years in which such principles were
abridged.

The Role of China in American Think Tanks

It is against this general backdrop that the role of expanding Chinese influence on
American think tanks needs to be considered. What follows are the findings gleaned
through interviews with seventeen think-tank analysts from eleven Washington- and
New York-based think tanks! that explore the nature of interactions that US think-tank
specialists have recently been having with Chinese counterparts. The analysts are all

Think Tanks

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020517
