Slow meals = life. From Daniel Gilbert of Harvard to Martin Seligman of Princeton, the “happiness”
(self-reported well-being) researchers seem to agree on one thing: Mealtime with friends and loved ones
is a direct predictor of well-being. Have at least one 2-to-3-hour dinner and/or drinks per week—yes, 2—
3 hours—with those who make you smile and feel good. I find the afterglow effect to be greatest and
longest with groups of five or more. Two times that are conducive to this: Thursday dinners or after-
dinner drinks and Sunday brunches.

Adversity doesn’t build character; it reveals it.
Related: Money doesn’t change you; it reveals who you are when you no longer have to be nice.

It doesn’t matter how many people don’t get it. What matters is how many people do. If you have a
strong informed opinion, don’t keep it to yourself. Try to help people and make the world a better place.
If you strive to do anything remotely interesting, just expect a small percentage of the population to
always find a way to take it personally. F*ck ’em. There are no statues erected to critics.

Related: You’re never as bad as they say you are. My agent used to send me every blog or media hit
for The 4-Hour Workweek. Eight weeks after publication, I asked him to only forward me positive
mentions in major media or factual inaccuracies I needed to respond to. An important correlate: You’re
never as good as they say you are, either. It’s not helpful to get a big head or get depressed. The former
makes you careless and the latter makes you lethargic. I wanted to have untainted optimism but remain
hungry. Speaking of hungry ...

Eat a high-protein breakfast within 30 minutes of waking and go for a 10-to-20-minute walk
outside afterward, ideally bouncing a handball or tennis ball. This one habit is better than a handful
of Prozac in the morning. (Suggested reading: The 3-Minute Slow-Carb Breakfast, How to “Peel”
Hardboiled Eggs Without Peeling on www.fourhourblog.com.) I dislike losing money about 50x more
than I like making it. Why 50X? Logging time as an experiment, I concluded that I often spend at least
50 x more time to prevent a hypothetical unit of $100 from being lost vs. earned. The hysterical part is
that, even after becoming aware of this bias, it’s hard to prevent the latter response. Therefore, I
manipulate the environmental causes of poor responses instead of depending on error-prone self-
discipline.

I should not invest in public stocks where I cannot influence outcomes. Once realizing that almost no
one can predict risk tolerance and response to losses, I moved all of my investments into fixed-income
and cashlike instruments in July 2008 for this reason, setting aside 10% of pretax income for angel
investments where I can contribute significant UI/design, PR, and corporate partnership help. (Suggested
reading: Rethinking Investing —Part 1, Rethinking Investing —Part 2 on www.fourhourblog.com.)

A good question to revisit whenever overwhelmed: Are you having a breakdown or a
breakthrough?

Rehearse poverty regularly—restrict even moderate expenses for 1-2 weeks and give away 20%+
of minimally used clothing —so you can think big and take “risks” without fear (Seneca).

A mindset of scarcity (which breeds jealousy and unethical behavior) is due to a disdain for those things
easily obtained (Seneca).

A small cup of black Kenyan AA coffee with cinnamon on top, no milk or sweeteners.

It’s usually better to keep old resolutions than to make new ones.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013995
