Portfolio Company Leverage

To the extent that any investment is made in a portfolio company with a leveraged capital
structure, such investment will be subject to increased exposure to adverse economic factors
such as a significant rise in interest rates, a severe downturn in the economy or deterioration in
the condition of such company or its industry. If such a company is unable to generate
sufficient cash flow to meet principal and interest payments on its indebtedness, the value of
any equity investment by the Fund in such company could be significantly reduced or even
eliminated.

Investments in Public Companies

The Fund may invest in public companies or take private portfolio companies public.
Investments in public companies may subject the Fund to risks that differ in type or degree
from those involved with investments in privately held companies. Such risks include, without
limitation, greater volatility in the valuation of such companies, increased obligations to
disclose information regarding such companies, limitations on the ability of the Fund to dispose
of securities at certain times (including due to the possession by the Fund of material non-public
information), increased likelihood of shareholder litigation against such companies’ board
members, which may include the Fund Managers or other Management Company personnel,
regulatory action by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and increased costs
associated with each of the aforementioned risks.

Hedging Techniques

From time to time, the Fund might have investments that are publicly traded, yet illiquid. The
General Partner might engage in hedging techniques, such as selling the corresponding shares
short “against the box,” to “lock in” or secure the value in an investment until it becomes liquid
and freely tradable. The Fund will only sell short a stock to the extent it holds a corresponding
long and illiquid position in the same company.

Portfolio Trading

The Fund does not generally intend to trade its assets for short-term profits, however, when
circumstances warrant, securities may be sold by the Fund without regard to the length of time
held. Any active short-term trading of the Fund will increase its rate of turnover and related
transaction expenses.

Non-U.S. Investments

The Fund may invest a portion of Fund’s total committed capital in the securities of issuers that
are organized outside of the U.S. and Canada. Investing in non-U.S. securities may involve
substantially greater risks than investing in U.S. securities including risks relating to (i) currency
exchange matters, including fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the U.S. dollar and the
various foreign currencies in which the Fund’s non-U.S. investments are denominated, and
costs associated with conversion of investment principal and income from one currency to
another; (ii) differences between the U.S. and non-U.S. securities markets, including potential
price volatility in and relative illiquidity of some non-U.S. securities markets; (iii) the absence of
uniform accounting, auditing and financial reporting standards, practices and disclosure
requirements, and differences in government supervision and regulation; (iv) certain economic
and political risks, including potential exchange control regulations, potential restrictions on
foreign investments and repatriation of capital and the risks associated with political, economic
or social instability, diplomatic developments, and the possibility of expropriation or

65 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024076
