liberal media. That was the program. The more your supporters loved you, the more your
antagonists hated you. That’s how it was supposed to work. And that’s how it was
working.

But Trump himself was desperately wounded by his treatment in the mainstream
media. He obsessed on every slight until it was overtaken by the next slight. Slights were
singled out and replayed again and again, his mood worsening with each replay (he was
always rerunning the DVR). Much of the president’s daily conversation was a repetitive
rundown of what various anchors and hosts had said about him. And he was upset not only
when he was attacked, but when the people around him were attacked. But he did not
credit their loyalty, or blame himself or the nature of liberal media for the indignities
heaped on his staffers; he blamed them and their inability to get good press.

Mainstream media’s self-righteousness and contempt for Trump helped provide a
tsunami of clicks for right-wing media. But an often raging, self-pitying, tormented
president had not gotten this memo, or had failed to comprehend it. He was looking for
media love everywhere. In this, Trump quite profoundly seemed unable to distinguish
between his political advantage and his personal needs—he thought emotionally, not
strategically.

The great value of being president, in his view, was that you’re the most famous man in
the world, and fame is always venerated and adored by the media. Isn’t it? But,
confusingly, Trump was president in large part because of his particular talent, conscious
or reflexive, to alienate the media, which then turned him into a figure reviled by the
media. This was not a dialectical space that was comfortable for an insecure man.

“For Trump,” noted Ailes, “the media represented power, much more so than politics,
and he wanted the attention and respect of its most powerful men. Donald and I were
really quite good friends for more than 25 years, but he would have preferred to be friends
with Murdoch, who thought he was a moron—at least until he became president.”

OOK Ok

The White House Correspondents’ Dinner was set for April 29, the one hundredth day of
the Trump administration. The annual dinner, once an insiders’ event, had become an
opportunity for media organizations to promote themselves by recruiting celebrities—
most of whom had nothing to do with journalism or politics—to sit at their tables. This
had resulted in a notable Trump humiliation when, in 2011, Barack Obama singled out
Trump for particular mockery. In Trump lore, this was the insult that pushed him to make
the 2016 run.

Not long after the Trump team’s arrival in the White House, the Correspondents’
Dinner became a cause for worry. On a winter afternoon in Kellyanne Conway’s upstairs
West Wing office, Conway and Hope Hicks engaged in a pained discussion about what to
do.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020032
