would happen next. | took high school graduation tests and then the college
entrance exams (Russian system din not have SATs back then and every college
required students to take particular exams to be admitted).

My family has always placed a high value on education and the only option we
thought would help me succeed in life was the Moscow State University of Foreign
Relations, famously referred to as “Harvard of Russia” by Henry Kessinger. My
entrance grades were excellent and | got the state scholarship covering my tuition
and living costs. Most of the students studying with me were coming from a
completely different “oligarchy” world, driving (or being driven) the most
expensive cars in the world and being accompanied by bodyguards. Girls would fly
to Milan and Paris to shop the latest Chanel collections. | was an outlier, a normal
kid, taking a bus and commuting for 2 hours to get to school. And | was pretty
unhappy feeling that just didn’t belong to this world and got there by mistake. Not
having many friends, | focused on my studies, graduating Cum Laude top on the
class with only “A” grades in my diploma. Now looking back, | am incredibly
grateful for something | used to see as a traumatizing experience. | would have
never grown up as ambitious and resilient had | been given all the opportunities
my peers had at a young age.

What's the biggest challenge(s) you're currently facing as you grow WE Talks -
personally and/or professionally - and what are you doing to navigate that
challenge(s)?

WE Talks started as an idea and became a rapidly growing community. We were
expecting just about 30 attendees at our first gathering, but ended up having over
50 guests. Consequently, we have been growing at a 50% monthly rate and just
had an event in partnership with TOPSHOP with over 100 attendees, including
more than 30 entrepreneurs. One of the major challenges would be to keep
growing at a Sustainable pace and to turn the community into a business.

When | was just starting WE Talks, many told me that the event space market in NY
in very saturated and that without a significant experience | the event space it
would be incredibly hard to create a quality community. And yet here we are,

Anything else you want us to know?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022270
