16.4 Task-Based Assessment in AGI Preschool 295

16.4 Task-Based Assessment in AGI Preschool

Professional pedagogues such as [CMO07] discuss evaluation of early childhood learning as in-
tended to assess both specific curriculum content knowledge as well as the child’s learning
process. It should be as unobtrusive as possible, so that it just seems like another engaging ac-
tivity, and the results used to tailor the teaching regimen to use different techniques to address
weaknesses and reinforce strengths.

For example, with group building of a model car, students are tested on a variety of skills:
procedural understanding, visual acuity, motor acuity, creative problem solving, interpersonal
communications, empathy, patience, manners, and so on. With this kind of complex, yet en-
gaging, activity as a metric the teacher can see how each student approaches the process of
understanding each subtask, and subsequently guide each student’s focus differently depending
on strengths and weaknesses.

In Tables 16.4 and 16.5 we describe some particular tasks that AGIs may be meaningfully
assigned in the context of a general AGI Preschool design and curriculum as described above.
Of course, this is a very partial list, and is intended as evocative rather than comprehensive.

Any one of these tasks can be turned into a rigorous quantitative test, thus allowing the
precise comparison of different AGI systems’ capabilities; but we have chosen not to emphasize
this point here, partly for space reasons and partly for philosophical ones. In some contexts
the quantitative comparison of different systems may be the right thing to do, but as discussed
in Chapter 17 there are also risks associated with this approach, including the emergence of
an overly metrics-focused “bakeoff mentality” among system developers, and overfitting of AI
abilities to test taking. What is most important is the isolation of specific tasks on which
different systems may be experientially trained and then qualitatively assessed and compared,
rather than the evaluation of quantitative metrics.

Task-oriented testing allows for feedback on applications of general pedagogical principles to
real-world, embodied activities. This allows for iterative refinement based learning (shaping),
and cross development of knowledge acquisition and application (multitask learning). It also
helps militate against both cheating, and over-fitting, as teachers can make ad-hoc modifications
to the tests to determine if this is happening and correct for it if necessary.

E.g., consider a linguistic task in which the AGI is required to formulate a set of instruc-
tions encapsulating a given behavior (which may include components that are physical, social,
linguistic, etc.). Note that although this is presented as centrally a linguistic task, it actually in-
volves a diverse set of competencies since the behavior to be described may encompass multiple
real-world aspects.

To turn this task into a more thorough test one might involve a number of human teachers
and a number of human students. Before the test, an ensemble of copies of the AGI would
be created, with identical knowledge state. Each copy would interact with a different human
teacher, who would demonstrate to it a certain behavior. After testing the AGI on its own
knowledge of the material, the teacher would then inform the AGI that it will then be tested on
its ability to verbally describe this behavior to another. Then, the teacher goes away and the
copy interacts with a series of students, attempting to convey to the students the instructions
given by the teacher.

The teacher can thereby assess both the AGI’s understanding of the material, and the ability
to explain it to the other students. This separates out assessment of understanding from assess-
ment of ability to communicate understanding, attempting to avoid conflation of one with the
other. The design of the training and testing needs to account for potential

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013211
