Federal Register/Vol. 76, No. 168/Tuesday, August 30, 2011/Rules and Regulations

54029

employees about their rights.176 But
several comments complain that the
rule does not define “significant.” 127
Baker & McKenzie proposes that the
standard be 40 percent specifically of
the employer’s production and
maintenance workforce, while the
National Immigration Law Center
proposes a 5 percent standard. Another
comment urges that translated notices
be required whenever any of the
employees are not proficient in
English.128 The U.S. Chamber of
Commerce asserts that a safe harbor is
needed for employers when a notice in
a particular language is not yet available
from the Board. Moreover, a few
comments contend that the Board
should also provide Braille notices for
vision-impaired employees, as well as
audio versions for illiterate employees,
and versions of the notice that are
adaptable to assistive technologies.129
One individual proposes that the rule
mandate that employers read the notice
to employees when they are hired and
to all employees annually.

Having carefully considered the
comments, the Board has decided to
define “significant” in terms of foreign-
language speakers as 20 percent or more
of an employer’s workforce. Thus, if as
many as 20 percent of an employer’s
employees are not proficient in English
but speak the same foreign language, the
employer must post the notice in that
language, both physically and
electronically (if the employer is
otherwise required to post the notice
electronically). If an employer’s
workforce includes two or more groups
constituting at least 20 percent of the
workforce who speak different
languages, the employer must either
physically post the notice in each of
those languages or, at the employer’s
option, post the notice in the language
spoken by the largest group of
employees and provide each employee
in each of the other language groups a
copy of the notice in the appropriate
language. If such an employer is also
required to post the notice
electronically, it must do so in each of
those languages. If some of an
employer’s employees speak a language
not spoken by employees constituting at
least 20 percent of the employer’s
workforce, the employer is encouraged,
but not required, either to provide the

126 See, e.g., comments of National Immigration
Law Center, Legal Aid Society—Employment Law
Center, and La Raza Centro Legal; Filipino
Advocates for Justice.

127 See, e.g., comments of COLLE; Food Marketing
Institute (FMI).

128 Georgetown law students.

129 See, e.g., Baker & McKenzie; Heritage
Foundation; Georgetown law students.

notice to those employees in their
respective language or languages or to
direct them to the Board’s Web site,
http://www.nirb.gov, where they can
obtain copies of the notice in their
respective languages. The Board has
also decided to add to the notice
instructions for obtaining foreign-
language translations of the notice.

Employers will be required to request
foreign-language notices from the Board
or obtain them from the Board’s Web
site in the same manner as the English-
language notice. If an employer requests
from the Board a notice in a particular
language in which the notice is not
available, the requesting employer will
not be liable for non-compliance with
the rule until the notice becomes
available in that language.

With respect to employees who are
vision-impaired or those who are
illiterate, employers may consult the
Board’s Regional Office on a case-by-
case basis for guidance on appropriate
methods of providing the required
notice, including by audio recording.

d. Electronic Posting

Many employer comments oppose the
requirement for electronic notice. The
Coalition for a Democratic Workplace
points out that other agencies do not
require both electronic and physical
posting and asserts that only one
method is necessary. For example, the
Coalition notes that the Family and
Medical Leave Act notice obligation is
satisfied by electronic posting alone,
and other statutes do not mention
electronic posting. The National Council
of Agricultural Employers urges the
Board to require electronic posting only
if the employer posts other statutory or
regulatory notices in that fashion.
Another proposes that employers be
permitted to choose either physical or
electronic posting. The National
Association of Manufacturers remarks
that the proposed rule breaks new
ground for using an employer’s email
system to communicate information
about “union membership.” The U.S.
Chamber of Commerce suggests that this
aspect of the rule would chill
employers’ use of new technologies. On
the other hand, the AFL-CIO and
several other commenters t*° support
electronic as well as physical posting;
the Center for American Progress Action
Fund, among others, points out that
electronic communications at work are
standard now.

After carefully considering these
comments, the Board concludes that
electronic posting will substantially

130 See, e.g., comments of Gibson, Dunn, Cohen,
Leifer & Yellig, P.C.; Beeson, Tayer & Bodine.

assist in providing the prescribed notice
to employees. As some comments state,
electronic communication is now a
routine practice in many workplaces
and the source of much information
from employers to their employees.
However, the Board has clarified the
final rule to mandate only that, if an
employer customarily communicates
personnel rules or policies to its
employees in that manner, it must also
do so with respect to the notice of
employee rights under the NLRA. The
concern that the rule will discourage
employers from using new technologies
is apparently not widely shared and, in
the Board’s view, is implausible.
Although the Board recognizes that
some other statutes and regulations do
not require electronic notice, it notes
that they generally predated the routine
use of electronic communications in the
workplace. Having only recently begun
ordering electronic posting of remedial
notices,!$? the Board has limited
experience in this area, and employers
are encouraged to contact the local
Regional Office with questions about
this provision. The Board does not agree
that employers should be permitted to
choose whether to provide physical or
electronic notice, because some
employers could select the less effective
of these alternatives, thus undermining
the purpose of the rule. Finally, the
rights stated in the notice are not
accurately described as pertaining solely
to union membership, and the notice is
not intended to promote union
membership or union representation.
Rather, the notice addresses a broad
range of employee legal rights under the
NLRA, which involve protected
concerted activity as well as union
activity in both organized and
unorganized workplaces, and also the
right to refrain from any such activity.
Many employer comments note that
the proposed rule also does not define
“customarily” as it pertains to
electronic posting in § 104.202(f), i.e.,
the type and degree of communication
that triggers the requirement.13
Numerous employers also participated
in a postcard campaign objecting,
among other things, that employers use
a wide variety of technology to
communicate with employees and that
the rule could require them to use all
methods to convey the notice.133 For

131 J, Picini Flooring, 356 NLRB No. 9 (2010).

182 See, e.g., comments of International
Foodservice Distributors Association (IFDA);
Associated Builders and Contractors; Los Angeles
County Business Federation; National Roofing
Contractors Association.

133 See, e.g., comments of American Home
Furnishings Alliance; Seawright Custom Precast;

Continued

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022300
