was at Epstein’s home on multiple occasions. Epstein engaged in one or more of the following
acts with her while she was a minor at his house - topless or completely nude massage on
Epstein; Epstein used a vibrator on her vagina; Epstein masturbated in her presence; Epstein
ejaculated in her presence; Epstein touched her breast or buttock or vagina or the clothes
covering her sexual organs; was made to perform sex acts on Epstein; made to perform sex acts
on Nadia Marcinkova in Epstein’s presence. Epstein also forcibly raped this underage victim, as
he held her head down against her will and pumped his penis inside her while she was screaming
No. See Rule 413 Notice, Exhibit “E”; Incident Report, Exhibit “A”, at 41 (specifically
discussing the rape):

“fA.H.] remembered that she climaxed and was removing herself from the

massage table. [A.H.] asked for a sheet of paper and drew the massage table in the

master bathroom and where Epstein, Marcinkova and she were. Epstein turned

[A.H.] on to her stomach on the massage bed and inserted his penis into her

vagina. [A.H.] stated Epstein began to pump his penis in her vagina. [A.H.]

became upset over this. She said her head was being held against the bed forcibly,

as he continued to pump inside her. She screamed no, and Epstein stopped ....”

“(A.H.] advised there were times that she was so sore when she left Epstein’s

house. [A.H.] advised she was ripped, torn, in her vagina area. [A.H.] advised she

had difficulty walking to the car after leaving the house because she was so sore.”

14. Without detailing each fact known about Epstein's abuse of the many underage
girls, Edwards has had a good faith basis to believe and did in fact believe at all relevant times
that Epstein also abused other victims in ways closely similar to those described in the preceding
paragraphs. Epstein’s additional victims include the following (among many other) young girls:
S.G.; A.D.; V.A.; N.R.; ULS.; V.Z.; J.A.; F.E.; M.L.; M.D.; D.D.; and D.N. These girls were

between the ages of 13 and 17 when Epstein abused them. See Rule 413 Notice, Exhibit E;

Deposition of E.W., Deposition Attachment #4.
8

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010573
