15

First, and not surprisingly, ElBaradei is well aware of the atomic
energy agency’s handicaps. For one, its inspections are generally
restricted to Non-Proliferation Treaty members and only to those sites
declared by those members. Extending this limited mandate to other
sites requires a strong push from the United Nations Security
Council. The agency has only some 2,300 employees, a very tight
budget of about $450 million and limited intelligence-gathering
resources. Of course, ElBaradei wants to buttress inspection authority
and capabilities. He wants more intelligence-sharing from the big
powers. He is particularly angry at Washington for not disclosing its
intelligence that Syria was building a nuclear facility, and then for
doing nothing to stop Israel from bombing that facility in 2007. He
also pushes for tougher safeguards for nuclear material and for
moving control of the developmental stages of the “fuel cycle” from
national to international hands.

This is all sensible but probably not attainable. While the United
Nations does a number of things quite well, it is not very adept or
courageous when it comes to sensitive political matters and national
prerogatives. Take, for example, the curious fact that the members of
the United Nations Commission on Human Rights elected Libya to
its chairmanship in 2003, despite its appalling record, because it was
“Africa’s turn.” If this is how business is done, it is unlikely that the
[.A.E.A.’s board of governors and the Security Council will ever
endow the agency with the common-sense powers and capabilities
E|Baradei wants.

Beyond this, ElBaradei insistently describes the United States and
other great powers as more the problem than the solution. In a “new
era, one characterized by clandestine activity and the willingness of
some countries to blatantly deceive,” the Iraq experience showed
“that this deliberate deception was not limited to small countries
ruled by ruthless dictators.” ElBaradei goes on to fault the United

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024972
