but laugh, I hoped he didn’t expect the same treatment back. Through my
recent experiences with Rena, I drew a line with extreme fetishes,
especially ones that would involve my tongue and feet in the same
sentence. It wasn’t hard to get him wound up to the point where he just
wanted to have the rest of me so we dried off from the cold and retired to
my bedchambers for the longest ten minutes of my life. Moments later
and without any real emotional attachment, he burst in ecstasy, leaving
me to my own feelings of dismay. As relieved as I was to see the
experience come to pass with him, it was finally sinking in that | would
never be anything more than but a muse. Still trying to ascertain a surreal
dream a young girl once held but no longer the same girl | was no longer
sure that the dream was even real anymore. In the whirlwind thrown
together by wealth, power, and privilege I was but a grain of sand and felt
helpless down the road I was naively being led down. When the real
picture was unveiled, later in my life, | had nothing but memories filled
with sorrow to remember of my teenage years.

Jeffrey, Ghislane, and I left for the states to conclude our long journey
home to the U.S.A. I was so happy when we landed on our soil and called
T.J from my cell phone to see if he’d meet me at the airport instead of
going back to Jeffrey’s, he’d be there within twenty minutes, he was so
happy to hear my voice and that I was back in town. So cestatic to be
getting away from my life of servitude for the next few days, I was sourly
disappointed when I got off the phone. As if he’d been listening to my
entire conversation, Jeffrey told me he'd like a massage back at his place
and he could pay me at the same time for my trip with him. With much
dismay I had to call T.J back and cancel the arrangements, I wouldn’t see
him until later that night, in which one of Jeffrey’s staff would drive me
home and I would be too exhausted to do anything.

Chapter 12

When we got back to Jeffrey’s mansion in Palm Beach he wanted to
thank me for showing his friend, the Prince, such a good time. Rewarding
my diligence with an extra sum of money and luring me deeper into his
goal of keeping me at his side as his personal amusement that he could
lend out at anytime. Further proving his capability of using the vulnerable
impressions of a young girl to influence and intimidate his fellow peers of

79

1 Copyright Protected Material

CONFIDENTIAL.

like minds. Jeffrey didn’t want to know the grim details of how it all
happened on my intimate night with the Prince, he just asked simply if I
thought that I did well in keeping his friend happy. Knowing already that
the evaluation of my performance I gave was already discussed between
them, I just as simply replied back with a nod of approval. Though I did
have a laugh with Jeffrey about the Prince’s weird fixation on my feet
and lets just say that he was quite tickled with Andrew’s quirky
obsession, having a good ol’chuckle at my eccentric encounter. I was
paid extremely well this time, putting my money earned into nothing but
popping pills and alcoho! by shouting my so called friends a good time,
aiming for the attempt to forget about my experiences abroad. I partied
like that to feel young again, my age and most of all to self-anesthetize
my troubles from within. It wasn’t like | was waiting for someone to
arrive on his white horse and take me away to a magical world. | simply
yearned for more out of life than being someone’s replaceable
amusement. Still a romantic at heart | would often get lost in my
daydreams, imagining a new beginning with a strong man that would
show me an enduring love, safety in his arms, and a lifetime friendship.
Though the suggestion of true loves existence was only a dream for now,
something I could only read about in novelistic fairytales but the passing
thought from time to time was warmly envisioned. With my inner most
desires being locked away in a deep crevice of my heart, I knew my
romantic notions would be absurd in Jeffrey’s eyes. For some unknown
reason to me he couldn’t allow himself to give love or receive someone’s
heart in return. Once he said to me when I asked him if he ever thought
he would settle down and find Mrs. Right and he told me he didn’t
believe that love with one monogamous partner was possible but he
found that love with many was. | thought at the time it had something to
do with having so much money and everyone wanting him for that
instead of seeing him as a person and even felt bad for him, but now I can
understand from his recent lessons unlearned that it was a simple
equation of his twisted perversion to become infatuated with the
vulnerable youth off the streets. Spending so much time in the entrapment
of Jeffrey’s embrace, I was becoming numb to the feelings and aspiration
to ever climb above this deep hole I had dug myself into. I knew I wanted
to escape from this bizarre form of first class slavery but I still didn’t
have the tools necessary to help me get out. How could I have? Everyone
that knew me believed [ was living this enchanting life, a rags to riches
success story that most people dream of, only | knew the price to be paid
for all of this and I was the only one who could pay for it.
Underestimating my true self, 1 was settled by Jeffrey’s side for now
considering him to be someone to look up to, my mentor. Such a

80

1] Copyright Protected Material

GIUTYRLE004213

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021184
