2. WTC Attack — 9/11 (2001)
3. BENGHAZI Attack — 9/11 (2012)
But you have to remember that H. W. Bush was planted:

AUTHOR PETER DALE SCOTT: Sometimes you have little deep events that most people don't even
notice. One of those would be the Halloween Massacre. The older people remember the Saturday
Night Massacre which happened under Nixon. I'm talking about the Halloween Massacre of October
31, 1975, and probably people watching this show have never heard of it.

That was under Ford, and Ford may have condoned it because it was trying to help restore his
popularity. He was going way down in the polls. But it was a very important series of events all on the
same night. The head of the CIA was fired, William Colby, replaced by a relatively unknown man
called George H. W. Bush who then went on to authorize something that Colby had refused to
authorize - the Team B report - the Team B to recalculate the Soviet threat and it was pre-
determined. They were going to find that it was much bigger than the professionals angled like
Raymond [inaudible] that | mentioned.

They said Russia is less of a threat now than it used to be. Well, that was terrible news for the
industrial complex so the Team B came in and said oh, no, no, no, it's much more of a threat than it
used to be, and that's why we got this huge military build-up. It started actually under Carter but we
think of it as the Reagan build-up, and that of course is a major factor in having ended the Soviet
Union because the Soviet Union tried to match it with a weaker economy. And that arms race which
was not about threats but was about fighting economic war, that was an arms race which you could
say that the Soviet Union lost because they couldn't keep it up. Their economy went more and more
downhill because they were deflecting resources away from vital domestic functions. But really I'm
trying to talk here about the Halloween Massacre...

Just the change in the CIA was a major historical event but it wasn't very visible. The second thing
that happened was they fired Jim Schlesinger as Secretary of Defense... It was being done by
[President Ford's] Chief of Staff and his assistant who are two names barely known then but quite
famous since. Chief of staff was Donald Rumsfeld and the assistant was Dick Cheney. And that was
the first real intrusion of the Rumsfeld-Cheney team into American politics. And they became the real
heart of what | consider the Deep State in the 1980s when they were planning for Continuity of
Government which was a plan for emergency rules like warrantless surveillance and warrantless
detention and the militarization of homeland security. All those things were planned all through the
‘80s - COG planning by Donald Rumsfeld and Dick Cheney. Even when Rumsfeld wasn't in the
government, he was authorized by Reagan to do this planning.

And why is that important to our history? Because in 2001, these two men were now in the
government - Vice President and Secretary of Defense - the two top people in Washington on
September the 11th, 2001 when Bush was down in Florida - George W. Bush - and what did they do
on that day? They implemented the plans they had been planning for 20 years. Another major event
in American history but it's not usually told that way.

We implemented - it’s in the 9/11 Commission Report that COG plans were implemented on that day.
This is a huge change in our country. We now have an ARMY command, NORTHCOM, to take
charge of America - North America, the way SOUTHCOM is in charge of South America and
CENTCOM is in charge of Central Asia.

This used to be illegal... We had the posse comitatus acts which said, yes, if there’s a real emergency

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015003
