; Case 9:08-cv-80232-KAM Document1 Entered on FLSD Docket 03/05/2008 Page 2of6

i

Factual Allegations

Te At all relevant times, Defendant Jeffrey Epstein (“Epstein”) was an adult male, 52
years old. Epstein is a financier and money manager with a secret clientele limited exclusively to
billionaires. He is himself a man of tremendous wealth, power and influence. He maintains his
principal home in New York and also owns residences in New Mexico, St. Thomas and Palm Beach,
FL. The allegations herein concern Epstein’s conduct while at his lavish estate in Palm Beach.

8. Upon information and belief, Epstein has a sexual preference and obsession for
underage minor girls. He engaged in a plan and scheme in which he gained access to primarily
economically disadvantaged minor girls in his home, sexually assaulted these girls, and then gave
them money. In or about 2004-2005, Jane Doe, then 16 years old, fell into Epstein’s trap and
became one of his victims.

9. Upon information and belief, Jeffrey Epstein carried out his scheme and assaulted
girls in Florida, New York and on his private island, known as Little St. James, in St. Thomas.

10. An integral player in Epstein’s Florida scheme was Haley Robson, a Palm Beach
Community College student from Loxahatchee, Florida. She recruited girls ostensibly to give a
wealthy man a massage for monetary compensation in his Palm Beach mansion. Under Epstein’s
plan, Ms. Robson would be contacted when Epstein was planning to be at his Palm Beach residence
or soon after he had arrived there. Epstein or someone on his behalf directed Ms. Robson to bring
one or more underage girls to the residence, Ms. Robson, upon information and belief, generally
sought out economically disadvantaged underage girls from Loxahatchee and surrounding areas who
would be enticed by the money being offered - generally $200 to $3 00 per “massage” session - and

who were perceived as less likely to complain to authorities or have credibility if allegations of

HERMAN & MERMELSTEIN, P. A. www.hermanlaw.com

20f6

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012645
