3

Leaders like this? I'm not sure there are other leaders like Qadhafi.

In terms of many of the autocratic dictators who went down with
bewildering speed in the Arab Spring, one of the reasons the public
dismay—what then becomes revolutionary fervor—is so startling is
they are really protected by this circle around them from
understanding how their popularity is ebbing. They can have a very
unrealistic understanding and believe, as Qadhafi stated again and
again, My people, they all love me. I found this language of his
quite remarkable. And with Qadhafi as an exaggerated example, this
is true of any of the other leaders, too—namely, they believe they
have widespread support. If there are public demonstrations against
them, that must reflect outside agitators. This was true with [ousted
Egyptian president Hosni] Mubarak as well. He spoke of outside
conspiracies. But it is particularly true of Qadhafi. There is an
interesting kind of almost syllogism for him: My people all love me,
and therefore if there is anyone protesting against me, they are not
really my people, and that must be a consequence of outside
provocation. And one of the points that he made early on was that
this was crazed youth who were on hallucinogens with which their
Nescafe had been laced, which I thought was rather creative, really.

I found Qadhafi's language in general very striking. And what is most
interesting about it is it is entirely in the first person singular: My
people all love me. They will support me. My people, they love me.
It was very me centered. A vivid contrast—and this will seem like a
ludicrous comparison—was Churchill during World War II.
Churchill always spoke in first person plural, and his way of
strengthening the morale of his people was to talk about us,
trials and tribulations, to identify with the people. It was a
remarkable case of charismatic leadership. Qadhafi, in contrast,
speaks only about himself. He identifies himself as the creator of
Libya, and one of his early quotes said, I created Libya, and I can

our

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024594
