Josh later told me at The Night Before Party that their acting methods
are completely opposite. Josh says he is a quick study and is very
creative and comfortable ad-libbing. Javier, whose mother tongue is
Spanish, needs to have every syllable printed out, which he studies with
a dialect coach. Little wiggle room for jokes. Life size photos on large
cardboard plaques are taped to each nominee’s chair. I try to memorize
their location, so when I return Sunday I can quickly kiss them all.

Back at the Beverly Hills hotel, I slip into my gorgeous black tulle
Dennis Basso cocktail dress with a plunging neck line and put on my
mother’s jewels. Jim Coleman takes me the Night Before Party in the
hotel. This is Jeffrey Katzenberg’s, 9° Annual A-lister event
benefiting The Motion Picture & Television Fund where they raise $6.5
million dollars in one night. I walk right into Valentino who gives me
the once over and approves my outfit. I tell him and Giancarlo Giammetti
that Woody Allen’s new film, “Midnight in Paris” is opening the Cannes
Film Festival and they must bring the yacht. Woody is also filming all
summer in Rome and I am counting on them to entertain him.

Elton John and David Furnish join our conversation and of course we ask
for intimate details about the new baby. Elton says this is the first
time they have been away from him for more than a night and they are
delirious with parenthood. I segway over to Amy Adams who mentions she
also hates leaving her baby in the hotel room. I tell her she’s acted
like a lady with all the attention showered on Melissa Leo and that
someday soon she will win an Oscar because she consistently hands in
amazing performances and everybody loves her. Next stop is Kate Capshaw
in a black bowler hat chatting with Steven Spielberg’s god-daughter
Gwyneth Paltrow. Kate gushes as she talks about her two grandchildren
from daughter Jessica. I have known Steven since “I Wanna Hold Your
Hand”. In 1982, as a young publicist on “E.T.” I moved to California to
work for him as one of his thirteen assistants. I now tell him I’m going
to Broadway opening of “War Horse” with Kathy Kennedy and Frank Marshall
and cannot wait to see his movie version. He is wildly excited about the
film. I beg him to work on it.

I meet sweet Jennifer Aniston, her new hair cut and her perfect little
body. Her date tells me her secret is a half hour on the treadmill every
day. Somehow I think that’s an understatement. I tell Jesse Eisenberg I
was on his plane home from the Baftas last week. He was hiding under his
hoodie and I knew not to bother him. He said innocently, “You should
have said ‘Hello’. I always cover my head because I think my curls make
me look like a girl”.

The charity gives us a coupon booklet redeemable at various booths for
cheap clothing, new iPads, make-up, chocolates, shampoo and a $5@ dollar

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012696
