4.2.12
WC: 191694

retain custody of her children and highly critical of Woody’s attempt to portray her in a negative
light.

The judge credited my testimony and ruled against Woody Allen in every respect, denying him not
only the custody of the children, but even the right to see his own biological son without severe
restrictions. As far as I know, Woody Allen never did see his biological son, who has grown into
quite an adult, having won a Rhodes Scholarship for his extraordinary work on human rights. To
this day, I doubt that Woody Allen knows how Robert Morvillo tried to use his case to settle a
score with me.

Shortly after it was publicly announced that I would be helping to defend Mia Farro against the
lawsuit brought by Woody Allen, my phone rang. The voice on the other end said, “Hey Alan,
this is Frank.”

I asked, “Frank who?”

The voice on the other end sounded surprised by the question and immediately responded, “Frank
Sinatra.”

Sinatra had previously called me when Kitty Kelly’s notorious biography was about to be
published. He asked if I was interested in representing him in a lawsuit against Kelly for
defamation. I described to him what effect the lawsuit would have on the quality of his life and
told him that I thought it would be a bad idea to bring one and that I would not be willing to
represent him in such a matter. He apparently agreed and didn’t bring the suit. [check]

“Nice to talk to you Mr. Sinatra,” I responded to his latest call. He immediately got down to
business. “I love Mia. We were married, you know. She’s a great girl. Woody’s trying to bully
her. He can’t be allowed to get away with that. What can I do to help?”

I told Mr. Sinatra that I appreciated the call but that the legal case was under control.

He quickly responded, “Well beyond the legal case, what can I do to call Woody off?”

Aware of Sinatra’s reputation as a tough guy, I nervously told him to leave it to the lawyers and
that any approach to Woody Allen would be used against Mia and would backfire.

Several months later, during the summer, Andre Previn—another of Mia’s former husbands—was
performing in the Whaling Church on Martha’s Vineyard. My wife and I attended his concert and
then went to a reception that followed. Previn, like Sinatra, told me how much he loved Mia and

that she was a great person.

He continued, “I feel like marching up to his apartment, knocking on the door, and punching him
in the face, telling him to leave Mia alone.”

Recalling the Sinatra call, I let out an uncontrollable laugh. Previn asked, “what’s so funny?”

287

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017374
