Chapter 11

Throughout the remainder of the quickly passing year I was on a
constant move with Jeffrey. Attending various dinner parties, mostly with
other esteemed billionaires and widely acclaimed scientists. Jeffrey likes
to surround himself with the most brilliant and powerful of minds, filling
his little black book with some of the most esteemed and even infamous
people in today’s wealthy society. It was during those intellectual
gatherings that my body was also put on the banquet menu but this time
for a powerful senator George Mitchell and another prominent Nobel-
Prize winning scientist who’s name would be mentioned but for all the
life of me can no longer remember. They would be only some of the
recognizable figures of the high society that became added to my list of
clientele, of course being introduced to for a lot more than just a client of
massage.

As an amusement to Jeffrey’s associates I also knew my place was to
entertain but not to every desired content. I was to show them a good time
but not the way I would have to use technique and effort for Jeffrey. The
very teachings from Jeffrey himself, or my tutor, as he liked to so
eloquently put it. Consistently being used and adored for the likeliness of
my youthful looks I was becoming very accustomed to my lifestyle with
Jeffrey, never really relaxing into it, but just accepting this as being as
good as it will ever get for me. 1 didn’t think J should be complaining,
wasn't I being offered a life in exchange for servitude? Just letting the
signs of my anxiety and depression pass me by while I blanketed them
with my pills, suffocating under a blanket of pain is all IT was really doing.

I spent Christmas and the New Years holidays with Jeffrey in N.Y.C,
who doesn’t celebrate the occasion, as he is of Jewish descent. Not that
he was a religious man anyways, I never even saw him celebrate
Hanukah either. We firstly stayed at his ranch in Santa Fe for a week,
then left for a long plane trip to Paris, France where we all suffered jet lag
for the next twenty four hours. We all stayed in a grand hotel with a view
the Champs’ Elyse.

Emmy and | shared a room and with her gifted ability to make new
contacts in just a few hours, she brought out a jay to share on the rooftop
at nighttime while we were overlooking the lit up Eiffel Tower. We never
got really close as buddies but we both knew what we were indebted to
and felt each other’s sorrows. All four of us went out shopping at Chanel,
D&G, Ralph Lauren, and many other little exclusive boutiques the
following afternoon. As a gift Jeffrey bought me a white terry clothed
goose feathered sofa and had it sent back to my apartment in Florida, and
bought some new tapestries to have sent back to Santa Fe for his ranch.

71

(1 Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004204

We also visited his up and coming Paris apartment. It was a modern,
typical flat being refurbished, and we went to see how it was all looking.
Jeffrey liked to fuss about every detail and harass the builder’s about their
work, changing last minute details at a whim.

Days and many croissants later we left for Spain feeling bloated and
sleepy. We only stayed in Spain for the afternoon, going to see another
astounding Moroccan castle for Jeffrey to replicate at one of his many
mansions. It was only a short plane ride to Tangier, Africa for more
castles hopping. We arrived at the historic landmark and the only five star
hotel in Tangier called E] Minzah in the village of Ville Nouvelle. The
city and outskirts were still very hostile at the time, females being warned
to not walk the streets alone and not to leave the house after dark or be at
risk of being raped or worse.

When we got to the room, it was oozing with every expected bit of
extravagance that a luxurious historical palace should offer until I was
greeted with a pile of monkey poo in the very middle of my bed. Not a
happy camper I called Jeffrey, Ghislane and Emmy into my adjoining
room and they all had quite a good laugh at my expense. Within a
moments notice of a complaint call to the front desk and we had an
attendant cleaning up my bed linen. The cleaner noticed the window was
still opened, he warned not to leave it ajar at nighttime just in case
another monkey wanted to make himself comfortable in my quarters.

Ghislane joked that maybe | should keep it open I might find a suitable
husband before I get any older. Always the instigator of a good joke but
unable to take one herself she didn’t like when I poked back that it was
more in her recent taste of men, since she loved to brag about her
rendezvous with her various lovers. Once she came back giddy as a
schoolgirl with an explosion of news, with all the build up and excitement
in her voice you’d think she was the next crown princess, but she had
given George Clooney a blowjob in the bathroom at some random event,
she never let that one down.

We all went to explore the towns surrounding Moroccan castles and
meet their royalty that lived in them. Jeffrey’s personal interior designer’s
met us at the residences. They walked around hurriedly, scribbling notes
into their clipboards and whispering between themselves. The palaces
were historically unique and beautiful but I wondered how could they live
so grandeur behind these walls when they lived in a city of such poverty
stricken squabble. Beggars lined the streets, people could just go missing
and no one could care less, and you heard of barbaric murders happening
every night. Against the advice of the Palace Attendant and Jeffrey’s
wishes, I decided to take a stroll one afternoon, mainly just to take photos
of exotic Africa and do some shopping in the village markets but I ended
up being intrigued by a group of young children playing in the streets.

72

(0 Copyright Protected Material

GIULFRE004205

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021180
