BREAKING DOWN DEMOCRACY: Goals, Strategies, and Methods of Modern Authoritarians

research due to alleged foreign funding, while ignoring
foreign funding for a quasi-political charity sponsored
by the Orthodox Church.°

n fact, most of these laws are unnecessary. In a state
like Russia, China, or Iran, the authorities already have
ample latitude to deregister and ban any organiza-
tion, and to prevent foreign organizations from doing

business with domestic partners. A legal system that
is flexible enough to serve the evolving needs of the
regime and target virtually any adversary is a hallmark
of modern authoritarianism. But the NGO measures
give an added veneer of legality to what is essentially
arbitrary rule.

The repeated adoption of new laws also gives the
leadership the opportunity to showcase emotional
propaganda that stresses the subversive nature of
foreign or independent domestic civil society orga-
nizations, reinforcing the idea that the motherland
is threatened by hostile encirclement and political
infiltration.

Foreign agents

n 2012, Russia adopted the so-called foreign agents
law. It requires NGOs that receive foreign funding and
engage in what the authorities define as political work
to register as “foreign agents,” a term that, in Russian,
is synonymous with foreign spy. Subsequent amend-
ments allow the Justice Ministry to register groups as
foreign agents without their consent. As with many

other Russian laws, the standards for enforcement are
entirely political. The designation is applied princi-
pally to NGOs that seek political reforms or criticize
the Kremlin's antidemocratic direction, though the

authorities’ reasoning in many cases is difficult to
fathom. State-friendly organizations have generally
been left alone.

emorial, the human rights organization founded

to carry forward the ideals associated with Andrey
Sakharov, was one of the first groups to be unilaterally
registered as a foreign agent by the Justice Ministry

in 2014. In 2015, the ministry accused Memorial of
“undermining the foundations of constitutional order”
by describing the Russian invasion of Ukraine as
aggression and by asserting, correctly, that active duty
Russian troops were taking part in the conflict.

As in most countries, including some democracies,
civil society organizations in authoritarian climates
are largely funded by governmental or foreign entities.
There is little tradition of private philanthropic funding

for NGOs, and even if there were, few wealthy Rus-
sians or Iranians would risk reprisal from the authori-
ties by donating to regime critics. Consequently, orga-
nizations that lose access to foreign funding typically
have no domestic alternative and must curtail their
operations or give up their political independence.

In Russia, even NGOs with politically anodyne mis-
sions have been targeted as foreign agents, as the
regime seeks to deter any civil society activity that
could challenge official policies or foster international
ties without state approval. One such organization
was the Northern Nature Coalition, which protects
old-growth forests and had protested certain cdevel-
opment projects. Another was Young Karelia, which
sponsors puppet shows for children in Karelian—a
language closely related to that spoken in neighboring
Finland. The latter group was declared a foreign agent
in part because of a $10,000 grant from the United
Nations.”

The undesirables

Once it was the CIA that dictatorships reflexively
blamed when under pressure. More recently, the tar-
get of attack is a group of prodemocracy foundations,
mostly American, that encourage political reform
through nonviolent methods. According to the de-
nunciations of officials from Russia, China, Venezuela,
and other repressive states, the National Endowment
for Democracy and the organizations associated with
philanthropist George Soros present a danger to the
status quo that rivals NATO or Western intelligence
agencies.°

In 2015, Putin signed a law that allowed the prosecu-
tor general to declare foreign organizations “unde-
sirable if they are deemed to pose a threat to the
country's security, defense capability, or public order.
The measure empowered the authorities to shut such
entities’ offices in Russia, ban Russian groups from
working with them, and freeze their assets.

While the law has been used to expel foreign prode-
mocracy organizations, the real targets are Russian
citizens. This is made clear by a section of the law
that calls for heavy fines and jail terms of up to six
years for Russians who collaborate with organizations
on the undesirable list. Conceivably, a Russia human
rights advocate who attends a seminar in Poland or
Germany sponsored by the International Republi-
can Institute—one of the groups added to the list in
2016—could be prosecuted once back in Russia.'*

26

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019260
