postulated, real physical world of ever-increasing entropy. He showed that at an
absolute temperature of zero, entropy is zero. We can illustrate an approach to this
singular state by placing a heated metal rod in ice water which would result in a
decrease in the entropy of the rod’s molecular motions by dQ/ T; < 0, the cooling
reducing the complexity of molecular motion in the metal bar and an increase in the
entropy of the water by dQ/T2 > 0 indicating an increase in the amount and
complexity of the surrounding water’s molecular motions. Of course the heat moves
from metal rod to the water as 7; +72 making dQ > 0 positive and the entropy
change, dS = dQ/ Tz - dQ/ T;, also positive. In another simple example, producing
friction by rubbing a surface generates heat, dQ > O, at a temperature 7. This
induces a positive change in entropy, dQ/ T > 0, in the form of increasing amount
and complexity of the patterns of molecular motion in the air surrounding the rubbed
surface.

Using another related and well-known thermodynamic thought toy, the
original isolated, insulated body of gas in the cylinder is partitioned by a membrane
into two chambers, one containing all the gas with its temperature, pressure and
ability to do mechanical work and the other a vacuum without these properties. This
equilibrium state is changed into another equilibrium state by suddenly removing the
membrane, filling both chambers with gas and, while increasing its entropy
irreversibly, dS > 0, removes at least some of the gas’s ability to do piston raising
work. In the context of classical thermodynamics, it is in this way that irreversibility
can be defined by its associated increase in entropy. Though there has been no
change in total energy in this insulated closed system, an increase in entropy
means a decrease of the energy available for work. The increased disorder in the
gas is associated with the loss of ability to convert heat, thermal energy, into
mechanical energy. Historically important and still available elementary texts by
Enrico Fermi (1936), Mark Zemansky (1957) and Herbert Callen (1985), among
many others, explicate clearly the formal, but far from biologically relevant, classical

theory of the physical entropy of closed equilibrium thermodynamic systems.

Growing in part out of the formal thermodynamics of physics, statistical

mechanics offers yet another set of intuitions about the not-necessarily-known

73

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013573
