Thursday, September 12, 2013
Page 6

have been litigated and determined in that action. Obviously, any question of
improper “pumping” of a particular case could have been resolved in that very case
rather than re-litigated in satellite litigation.

Epstein also alleged that Edwards improperly pursued discovery from some of
Epstein’s close friends. Such discovery, Epstein claimed, was improper because
Edwards knew that these individuals lacked any discoverable information about the
sexual assault cases against Epstein. Each of the friends of Epstein were and are
reasonably believed to possess discoverable information. The undisputed facts show
the following with regard to each of the persons identified in Epstein’s complaint of
improper targets of discovery:

e With regard to Donald Trump, Edwards had sound legal basis for believing
Mr. Trump had relevant and discoverable information. See Statement of
Undisputed Facts filed in support of Edwards’ Motion for Summary Judgment.

e With regard to Alan Dershowitz (Harvard Law Professor), Edwards had sound
legal basis for believing Mr. Dershowitz had relevant and discoverable
information. See Statement of Undisputed Facts.

e With regard to former President Bill Clinton, Edwards had sound legal basis
for believing former President Clinton had relevant and discoverable
information. See Statement of Undisputed Facts.

e With regard to former Sony Record executive Tommy Mottola, Edwards was
not the attorney that noticed Mr. Mottola’s deposition. See Statement of
Undisputed Facts.

e With regard to illusionist David Copperfield, Edwards had sound legal basis
for believing Mr. Copperfield had relevant and discoverable information. See
Statement of Undisputed Facts.

e With regard to former New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson, Edwards had
sound legal basis for naming Former New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson
on his witness list. See Statement of Undisputed Facts.

The anticipated trial of this lawsuit will require Edwards to testify about the propriety
of his litigation decisions and to explain the bases for his good faith belief that each of
the identified individuals had relevant information regarding Epstein’s serial
molestations. The rules of discovery themselves provide that a deposition need only
be “reasonably calculated to /ead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” Fla. R.
Civ. P. 1.280(b), and all of the challenged depositions clearly met that standard.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029320
