11

dress immodestly, or a condone a host of other practices that
extremists see as forbidden under Islam. So yes, Hamas, like al
Qaeda, talks of an Islamic government, but in practice it makes
compromises, as its unity agreement with Abbas and his regime
suggests. In power, Hamas has tried to Islamicize Gaza, and its rule
in Gaza is notable for its repression, but it has not imposed a
draconian regime as did the Taliban in Afghanistan, the only
government al Qaeda ever recognized as truly Islamic.

In the end, Hamas is pragmatic. It makes compromises with rivals,
cuts deals with potentially hostile foreign sponsors, and otherwise
tries to strengthen its political position, even if this exposes it to the
charge of hypocrisy.

Nowhere is this more apparent that in Hamas's relations with Israel.
Especially since the 2008-2009 Cast Lead Operation, where Israeli
forces hit Gaza hard, Hamas has often (though not always) adhered to
a ceasefire with Israel. In the months following Cast Lead, only a few
rockets were launched at Israel from Gaza, and Israeli officials told
me those were probably from other Palestinian groups or were
otherwise not an official Hamas action. Gazans did not want to go
another round with Israel's army, and Hamas feared alienating them.
Yet Hamas tries to maintain its street cred as a resistance
organization. It has at times allowed other groups to launch attacks
on Israel, and in recent months launched missile salvos itself, risking
an end to the de facto ceasefire. Internal pressures within Gaza,
particularly criticisms from Salafi-jihadists with ideologies akin to al
Qaeda, as well as Israeli attacks on Hamas personnel, have at times
led the group to risk further retaliation, but this careful calculation is
a far cry from al Qaeda's call for constant struggle.

Hamas needs no reminder that al Qaeda is more foe than friend.
Though Ismail Haniyeh, Hamas's leader in Gaza, praised bin Ladin
after his death as an Arab holy warrior, this was largely pandering

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023527
