in various categories ,a desire to enter into others. A panoply of loans, notes. purchases, wide range
of all types of taxes. , planes. boats homes. . trusts ,grats. a crazy number of bank accts. ( with no
oversight ) . law firms, acct firms, 800 page tax returns, foreign firms. art consultants.

construction consultants bill payers, home mgmt.,vast multitude of Ilc's , including foreign, and with
all that you only have a combined overhead of less that 3 million dollars.

I have previously sent you the very same note that 1 have enclosed again below ,this time with
highlights . I wrote it to you over a year ago. As my acute disability ( selective memory) seems to
have been raised as one of your concerns , as arule I try to memorialize things in writing in an
attempt to lay out issues that I fear may later turn out to be a problem. ie what 1 would and wouldn't
do , - my responsibilities. ete and those things that are not. below you will find details of things that I
thought needed to be done, so that you wouldn't find yourself in the very place where you currently
find yourself. however ,you chose to defer many of my suggestions- see below -,until only weeks ago.
! you chose to defer the jpm acct. the art partnership on and on - into this year. and though the 60- 50
AO timber emails all carried with it a clear warning that you needed to do something re personnel if it
were to stabilize,- you chose to wait.

ONE YEAR AGO
Feb 17 2014 1 wrote:

With regard the more pressing issue I am uncertain of just how to proceed. I am torn, as my very
strong inclination is not to be involved at all . It is extremely time consuming, delicate, fraught with
many pitfall many that will make you very upset and a major pain in the ass. I wrote you months ago
that the quality of the people involved need to be upgraded. ( lucky for me these last issues arose way
before the beginning of my involvement ) I am also aware however of my overarching friendship
obligations of ok, -given all the complexities who else can do it? problem.

Your family office needs a daddy. children with good intentions are running around , sniping ,
nitpicking with little direction. As a stopgap measure I am suggesting , we put in Larry Delson to take
charge Everyone would report to him. Eileen included. He would however work for me. this is not,
by a long shot my first choice as I prefer only being responsible and standing behind my own
personal work ( ie the word DONE will no longer be transmitted to reflect status stated by others )

With no commitment on my part whatsoever, to do it. So far as Ihave failed i my attempt in
trying to think through the problem creatively . My organizations handling of the more complex
issues I believe you might find very costly, very ! (however many structures available some risk
sharing, maybe risk caps ,etc ) but would require my teams doing the work , not yours. Ada should
be only a trust, grat administrator. not sure what role you prefer for Eileen as you hired her initially to
oversee investments. whether Rich your controller stays or not, 1s not urgent. having Tom report to a
new person,- is. coordination with Suydam Kathy Gregory, I would suggest limiting to one person.
The increasing public profile needs to be taken into consideration.

TODAY

With your acquiesence , Eileen did not report to Delson ( he acting as a conduit directly to me) , she
continued to provide bad info to both you ( cash flows , stock accts, structures. sales Etc) and me.
and each time with my many annoying calls to you made immediately afterwards that she was g....-y !!
No one was hired to run YOUR office until two months ago , no one was even interviewed and even
now , Brad, a very nice man, 1s not even full time,(crazy ) Hours upon hours of time need to be spent
training him . and his new staff. Eileen followed your instructions. not mine. in fact she continued to
ignore mine saying  but Leon said or its on Leon's desk etc, You would become frustrated
when 1 pointed out each instance. of her obfuscation. originally you were given the clear choice, but
to save money ,you chose not to hire my team . I was hired to do the architecture, you kept your own

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023269
