serious or irreversible ©!

Sherwood knocks on his boss’s office door around 3 P.M. on a relatively relaxed Thursday, July 27,
the week after his absence, and his script looks like the following. Stock phrases are underlined and
footnotes explain negotiating points.

Sherwood: Hi, Bill. Do you have a quick second?
Bill: Sure. What’s up?

Sherwood: [ just wanted to bounce an idea off of you that’s been on my mind. Two minutes should be
plenty.

Bill: OK. Shoot.

Sherwood: Last week, as you know, I was sick. Long story short, I decided to work at home despite
feeling terrible. So here’s the funny part. I thought I would get nothing done, but ended up finishing three
more designs than usual on both days. Plus, I put in three more billable hours than usual without the
commute, office noise, distractions, etc. OK, so here’s where I’m going. Just as a trial, I’d like to
propose working from home Mondays and Tuesdays for just two weeks. You can veto it whenever you
want, and I’ll come in if we need to do meetings, but I'd like to try it for just two weeks and review the
results. ’m 100% confident that Pll get twice as much done. Does that seem reasonable?

Bill: Hmm ... What if we need to share client designs?

Sherwood: There’s a program called GoToMyPC that I used to access the office computer when I was
sick. I can view everything remotely, and I'll have my cell phone on me 24/7. Sooooo ... What do you
think? Test it out starting next Monday and see how much more I get done?&

Bill: Ummm ... OK, fine. But it’s just a test. I have a meeting in five and have to run, but let’s talk
soon.

Sherwood: Great. Thanks for the time. [ll keep you posted on it all. ’'m sure you'll be pleasantly
surprised.

Sherwood didn’t expect to get two days per week approved. He asked for two so that, in the case his
boss refused, he could ask for just one as a fallback position (bracketing). Why didn’t Sherwood go for
five days remote per week? Two reasons. First, it’s a lot for management to accept off the bat. We need
to ask for an inch and turn it into a foot without setting off panic alarms. Second, it is a good idea to
hone your remote-working abilities—rehearse a bit—before shooting for the big time, as it decreases the
likelihood of crises and screwups that will get remote rights revoked.

Step 5: Expand Remote Time

Sherwood ensures that his days outside of the office are his most productive to date, even minimally
dropping in-office production to heighten the contrast. He sets a meeting to discuss the results with his
boss on August 15 and prepares a bullet-point page detailing increased results and items completed
compared to in-office time. He suggests upping the ante to four days per week remote for a two-week
trial, fully prepared to concede to three days if need be.

Sherwood: It really turned out even better than I expected. If you look at the numbers, it makes a lot of
business sense, and I’m enjoying work a lot more now. So, here we are. I'd like to suggest, if you think it
makes sense, that I try four days a week for another two-week trial. I was thinking that coming in

Friday®would make sense to prepare for the coming week, but we could do whichever day you prefer.

Bill: Sherwood, I’m really not sure we can do that.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013942
