shamelessness of her television appearances, extended this into a larger critique of
Conway’s vulgarity. When referring to her, they were particularly partial to using the
shorthand “nails,” a reference to her Cruella de Vil-length manicure treatments.

By mid-February she was already the subject of leaks—many coming from Jared and
Ivanka—about how she had been sidelined. She vociferously defended herself, producing
a list of television appearances still on her schedule, albeit lesser ones. But she also had a
teary scene with Trump in the Oval Office, offering to resign if the president had lost faith
in her. Almost invariably, when confronted with self-abnegation, Trump offered copious
reassurances. “You will always have a place in my administration,” he told her. “You will
be here for eight years.”

But she had indeed been sidelined, reduced to second-rate media, to being a designated
emissary to right-wing groups, and left out of any meaningful decision making. This she
blamed on the media, a scourge that further united her in self-pity with Donald Trump. In
fact, her relationship with the president deepened as they bonded over their media wounds.

7 OK Ok

Hope Hicks, then age twenty-six, was the campaign’s first hire. She knew the president
vastly better than Conway did, and she understood that her most important media function
was not to be in the media.

Hicks grew up in Greenwich, Connecticut. Her father was a PR executive who now
worked for the Glover Park Group, the Democratic-leaning communications and political
consulting firm; her mother was a former staffer for a democratic congressman. An
indifferent student, Hicks went to Southern Methodist University and then did some
modeling before getting a PR job. She first went to work for Matthew Hiltzik, who ran a
small New York-based PR firm and was noted for his ability to work with high-
maintenance clients, including the movie producer Harvey Weinstein (later pilloried for
years of sexual harassment and abuse—accusations that Hiltzik and his staff had long
helped protect him from) and the television personality Katie Couric. Hiltzik, an active
Democrat who had worked for Hillary Clinton, also represented Ivanka Trump’s fashion
line; Hicks started to do some work for the account and then joined Ivanka’s company full
time. In 2015, Ivanka seconded her to her father’s campaign; as the campaign progressed,
moving from novelty project to political factor to juggernaut, Hicks’s family increasingly,
and incredulously, viewed her as rather having been taken captive. (Following the Trump
victory and her move into the White House, her friends and intimates talked with great
concern about what kind of therapies and recuperation she would need after her tenure
was finally over.)

Over the eighteen months of the campaign, the traveling group usually consisted of the
candidate, Hicks, and the campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski. In time, she became—
in addition to an inadvertent participant in history, about which she was quite as

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020036
