achievement, like taking a piece of that serenity and putting on paper for
me to keep in my heart where it still is today, closing my eyes Iam able
to see it, being there anytime I need to. I was enjoying the heat and taking
in the deserts sights when I stumbled off the track and into the
wildemess. Exploring everything new to me was my second nature and
never even entered my mind what would’ve happened if I went too far or
got lost. | would rather face Mother Nature’s wrath than humankind’s any
day!

After about an hour of drifting off track I came to a pile of rubble,
looking like the remnants of an old pueblo made out of clay and rock. I
picked up what looked like half of a clay bowl and noted that it had
Indian designs etched into the side of it. Excited about my findings I
decided to do some more exploring around the fields surrounding the
historic site. I collected rare pieces of arrowheads, utensils, and parts of
many broken bowls with artwork telling tales of their own. Time was of
no essence here and before I even realized the sun had sunk deeper into
the hills leaving me without any light to find my way back to the
pathway. Feeling silly now after passing by a familiar looking boulder
twice over, I was startled when I heard some poor animal become dinner
for another, it’s screams of agony only amplified louder and echoed in
my ear drums, heightening the hairs on the back of my neck and making
my heart beat nearly out of my chest.

I was lost and confused before but now I was petrified with fear.
Taking me over three hours to find my way back to the path and in the
direction of Jeffrey’s mansion was a mission, so relieved in the end and
so were the housemaids after I hadn’t showed up for dinner, assuming I
must’ve been out for one of my usual adventures. I went to bed
strenuously exhausted that night and as I was falling asleep the phone
rang, it was a call from Jeffrey who had been alerted of my
disappearance. “What happened tonight, one of the maids called me to
tell me you hadn’t come back from your walk this evening” Detecting a
tone of anger in his voice I tried to distract him by telling him of my
findings and he scolded me for being gone for so long without anyone
knowing where I was. Going back to the Indian remnants, I persisted on
telling him what T had found. In the end he was just worried about me
becoming a liability, but had to make it sound as if he cared. ‘‘ Don’t
worry Jeffrey, I won’t be doing that again. I can honestly say I have
learned my lesson and the next time I want to explore | promise to take
someone with me”. J satisfied his worry of me being a future nuisance
and with that I was finally able to tell him what I had discovered on my
walk. He was impressed but did not sound surprised. “You must’ve been
gone a long time if you found the old Indian pueblo’s, just be careful you
don’t say anything about where you found the stuff on my property, it

91

(2 Copyright Protected Material

GIUFFREO04224

could become a sight for historical preservation and that means the
government could ultimately own my land.”

T acknowledged his request and told them they were just a gift for my
Mom, who was in love with Indians “Wait until she see’s I brought her
back real artifacts, she is going to totally freak out.” He didn’t mind that I
was taking them. In fact he admired my curiosity and adventurous spirit.
He reminded me that tomorrow was my last day. | would be driven to the
Albuquerque International Airport the day after next, to meet Jeffrey in
New York, for how long, only he knew. Giving Jeffrey many thanks for a
great week, letting him know how much I appreciated these small breaks
away, we then said goodnight. Hanging up the phone | had caught my
second wind and set out to the kitchen to find a late-night snack. Raiding
the fridge and pantry, I found some frozen pizzas and popcorn. | put on a
movie and munched on the popcorn while the pizza cooked. Some 1980's
dreadful alien flick got the better of me that night. [t was based on a true
story about people abductions from extraterrestrial beings, which were,
like I was, visiting a remote area. I suddenly hated being alone on a ranch
in the middle of nowhere. | munched down my burnt, crunchy pizza and
became further enveloped in the thick plot. Leaving on the TV and the
lights on that night, I spent my night tossing and turing, peeking through
the small open crevices of the comforter, half expecting to see an alien
being in my bedroom.

Living through the night was a relief and J laughed at myself in the
morning, how spooked did I get? When I got to New York, Jeffrey, and
Ghislane had a good laugh over my tale of survival in the wilderness and
then the alien scare. “Your always having the best adventures” Ghislane
exclaimed. We were similar in that way, both being s bit of free spirits it
was really only her non-existence of moral standards that differentiated
the two of us, in that way. “How do you know you weren’t abducted and
probed? I mean look at you and all that time alone on the ranch, what do
you think Jeffrey, could she pass off as an alien?” Expectedly, Ghislane
poked fun at me, her usual fun past time. Our relationship was an odd
one, never threatened by each other but always precautious towards one
another nonetheless able to crack a joke together, but when it came time
to “work” it was no fun and games, she was intensely serious. “With a
sense of humor like yours I would tend to think that you are the one from
another planet.” Just friendly banter between the two of us, then Jeffrey
had to jump in with his two bits, “I think you might be onto something
Ghislane.” I squinted my eyes and gave them both an exaggerated death
stare and pretended to grab my stomach in pain, “I think some things
trying to get out of me”, putting my fist in my shirt to reenact a scene
from Alien, I fell onto the couch and faked my death. “I knew it”
Ghislane shouted and jumped on me to begin tickling me all over and we

92

M1 Copyright Protected Material

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021190
