immediately. I used the audio adaptation. If you’re hungry for more, William Ury’s Getting Past No and
G. Richard Shell’s Bargaining for Advantage: Negotiation Strategies for Reasonable People are
outstanding. These are the only negotiating books you’ll ever need.

Response Magazine (www.responsemagazine.com)

This magazine is dedicated to the multibillion-dollar direct response (DR) industry, with a focus on
television, radio, and Internet marketing. How-to articles (increasing sales per call, lowering media costs,
improving fulfillment, etc.) are interspersed with case studies of successful campaigns (George Foreman
Grill, Girls Gone Wild, etc.). The best outsourcers in the business also advertise in this magazine. This is
an excellent resource at an excellent price—free.

Jordan Whitney Greensheet (www.jwgreensheet.com)

This is an insider secret of the DR world. Jordan Whitney’s weekly and monthly reports dissect the most
successful product campaigns, including offers, pricing, guarantees, and ad frequencies (indicative of
spending and, thus, profitability). The publication also maintains an up-to-date tape library from which
infomercials and spot commercials can be purchased for competitive research. Highly recommended.

Small Giants: Companies That Choose to Be Great Instead of Big (256 pages)

BY BO BURLINGHAM

Longtime /nc. magazine editor-at-large Bo Burlingham crafts a beautiful collage and analysis of
companies that focus on being the best instead of growing like cancer into huge corporations. Companies
include Clif Bar Inc., Anchor Stream Microbrewery, rock star Ani DiFranco’s Righteous Babe Records,
and a dozen more from different industries. Bigger is not better, and this book proves it.

Negotiating World Travel and Preparing for Escape

Six Months Off: How to Plan, Negotiate, and Take the Break You Need Without Burning Bridges or
Going Broke (252 pages)

BY HOPE DLUGOZIMA , JAMES SCOTT , AND DAVID SHARP

This was the first book to make me step back and say, “Holy sh*t. I can actually do this!” It steamrolls
over most fear factors related to long-term travel and offers a step-by-step guide to taking time off to
travel or pursue other goals without giving up your career. Full of case studies and useful checklists.

Verge Magazine (http://vergemagazine.com)

This magazine, formerly known as Transitions Abroad, is the central hub of alternative travel and offers
dozens of incredible options for the non-tourist. Both the print and online versions are great starting
points for brainstorming how you will spend your time overseas. How about excavating in Jordan or eco-
volunteering in the Caribbean? It’s all here.

From the website: “Each issue takes you around the world with people who are doing something
different and making a difference doing it. This is the magazine resource for those wanting to volunteer,
work, study, or adventure overseas.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014032
