CRIMINAL LAW: CRIME VICTIMS' RIGHTS DURING CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATIONS? APPLYING THE CRIME VICTIMS’ RIGHTS ACT BEFORE
CRIMINAL CHARGES ARE FILED

Winter, 2014

Reporter
104 J. Crim. L. & Criminology 59 *

Length: 23898 words

Author: PAUL G. CASSELL*, NATHANAEL J. MITCHELL** and BRADLEY J. EDWARDS***
* Ronald N. Boyce Presidential Professor of Criminal Law, S.J. Quinney College of Law at the University of Utah.
** Associate, Snow, Christensen & Martineau (Salt Lake City, Utah).

*** Partner, Farmer, Jaffe, Weissing, Edwards, Fistos & Lehrman (Fort Lauderdale, Fla.). The authors thank Douglas Beloof,
Patricia Cassell, Meg Garvin, Jay Howell, James Marsh, and Stephen Twist for their assistance with this Article.

Highlight

This Article addresses whether crime victims should have rights during criminal investigations, using the Crime Victims’
Rights Act (CVRA) as the focal point for our discussion. This is a critical issue, as many criminal cases may never proceed to
formal charging. If crime victims have no rights during criminal investigations, then many crime victims will never have any
rights at all.

The issue of whether crime victims have rights in the criminal justice process recently came to a head when the Justice
Department released a memorandum contending that the CVRA does not extend crime victims any rights until prosecutors
choose to file formal criminal charges. This led the CVRA's Senate cosponsor, then-Senator Jon Kyl, to fire off an angry letter
to the Justice Department attacking its position. In our Article, we side with the Act's cosponsor. We believe that, properly
understood, the CVRA does extend crime victims’ rights during criminal investigations.

Our Article proceeds in four parts. First, it highlights the importance of applying the Act before the formal filing of charges by
illustrating how dozens of victims in a notorious federal sex abuse case were deprived of the ability to participate meaningfully
in the criminal process when federal prosecutors narrowly interpreted their responsibilities under the Act. Second, the Article
reviews the purpose, text, structure, and history of the CVRA, concluding that they all support the conclusion that crime victims
have rights during criminal investigations. Third, our Article critiques the Department's memorandum, demonstrating that the
Department's analysis is unpersuasive. Fourth and finally, the Article provides a specific approach for determining when rights
should attach - specifically when federal law enforcement agencies have identified a crime with sufficient precision to send a
target letter to a criminal defendant. We also observe that federal and state prosecutors have already accorded rights to
victims before formally filing charges, which further undermines the Department's overly narrow construction of the Act.

Text

DAVID SCHOEN

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017604
