4.2.12
WC: 191694

testify under oath — not once, but twice — that turned a sex rumor into a possibly impeachable
offense.

How do I know that Robert Bennett never told President Clinton of the default option? Because
both men personally told me. Here is the story.

On January 17, 1997, President Clinton was deposed in the Paula Jones lawsuit and was asked
questions about his relationship with Monica Lewinsky. Among the questions were the following:
“Did you have an extramarital sexual affair with Monica
Lewinsky?”

“Tf she told someone that she had a sexual affair with you beginning
in November of 1995, would that be a lie?”

“T think I used the term “sexual affair.” And so the record is
completely clear, have you ever had sexual relations with Monica
Lewinsky, as that term is defined in Deposition Exhibit 1, as
modified by the Court?”

Clinton answered as follows:

“T have never had sexual relations with Monica Lewinsky. I’ve
never had an affair with her.”

His answer was based on the following definition of sexual relations accepted by the judge:

For the purpose of this deposition, a person engages in “sexual
relations” when the person knowingly engages in or causes

1. contact with the genitalia, anus, groin, breast, inner
thigh, or buttocks of any person with an intent to arouse
or gratify the sexual desire of any person;

“Contact means intentional touching, either directly or through
clothing.

Under that definition, oral sex does constitute sexual relations. After the Jones lawyers
completed their questioning, the President’s own lawyer, Robert Bennett, asked the following
question:

“Tn paragraph eight of her affidavit, [Monica Lewinsky] says this, ‘I
have never had a sexual relationship with the president, he did not
propose that we have a sexual relationship, he did not offer
employment or other benefits in exchange for a sexual relationship,
he did not deny me employment or other benefits for reflecting a
sexual relationship.’

271

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017358
