188

reset button in this game. The best that the NSA could do now was damage control while its
adversaries took full advantage of the setback. Several hundred US and British intelligence
officers worked around the clock in Washington DC, Fort Meade, Maryland and Cheltenham,
England for months on end to determine if which parts could be still salvaged from what had been
until the Snowden breach the most powerful communications intelligence system in the world.

Adding insult to injury, Snowden, speaking from his new perch in Moscow, told applauding
audience that the entire purpose of the U.S. exercise, including deliberately “trapping” him in
Moscow, was to “demonize” him. For Russia, it was a textbook move. By providing Snowden
with this platform to rail against the surveillance practices of his adversaries, Putin laid claim to
the moral high ground in the Game of Nations.

What remains missing from this picture is Snowden's motive in requesting documents from
other foreign intelligence services, such as the GCHQ, and copying lists of NSA sources. It is
difficult to believe that his motive was conventional whistle-blowing since these documents were
not among those | he gave to journalists in Hong Kong. It will be recalled that his legal
representative in Moscow, Anatoly Kucherena, said that he taken to Russia, and had access to,
NSA documents that he had not given to journalists. He had gone effort in his final weeks at the
NSA to take documents that any adversary service would prize. Copying them was, as we have
seen, part of his well-calculated plan. Did he use them, as he used the documents he gave to
Poitras, Greenwald and Gellman, as leverage in his transformation? Since the role that Moscow
may have played in Snowden’s remarkable defection, while less visible than that of the movie-
makers, journalists and activist, cannot be ignored in this puzzle. Since it requires a closer
examination of the machinations that brought Snowden to Russia, I made arrangements to visit
Moscow in October 2015.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020340
