BREAKING DOWN DEMOCRACY: Goals, Strategies, and Methods of Modern Authoritarians

in Ukraine, the Maidan uprising of 2013-14, forced
him to flee to Russia after a bloody crackdown failed
to disperse the demonstrators. Among other things,
the episode shattered the old political establishment,
which had been more or less equally divided between
parties that were friendly to Russia and parties that
favored independence from the Kremlin and an
orientation toward Europe. For the foreseeable future,
pro-Russian parties were unlikely to play a major role
in Ukrainian political life.

Russia responded by seizing and illegally annexing
Crimea and fomenting a frozen conflict in eastern
Ukraine. But the Kremlin also stepped up its campaign
to demonize color revolutions more broadly as Amer-
icas favored instrument of regime change, though no
serious evidence of U.S. involvement in the Maidan
revolution was put forward. The color revolution threat
became a major theme of Russian domestic propa-
ganda and political discourse. It even became a focus
of the country's military planning.

When speaking of color revolutions, Russian officials
and commentators have struck several common
themes:

1. Color revolutions are a U.S. strategy to break
Russia's influence over its neighbors.' Nikolay
Patrushev, secretary of Russia's Security Council
and a longtime director of the Federal Security
Service (FSB), has described color revolutions
as an American scheme to bring down gov-
ernments through the financing of opposition
groups and economic sanctions “under the pre-
text of human rights protection and the neces-
sity to form civil society institutions.”? Russian
officials in 2015 warned that Electric Yerevan, an
Armenian protest movement against electricity
price hikes, could be a provocation by the West
dedicated to toppling a Moscow-friendly admin-
istration?

2. The threat of military action is an integral part of
the strategy. While color revolutions by definition
employ nonviolent tactics, Russian strategists
claim that the military dimension can be indirect,
embedded in democratic governments’ warnings
not to use force against protesters. In other words,
according to the Kremlin, the United States and
its allies stoke uprisings and then threaten to in-
tervene if the authorities defend themselves. Rus-
sias own response to the Maidan revolution was a
reflection of this distorted image: It orchestrated

separatist revolts in parts of Ukraine and then
used its military to defend them.*

3. Color revolutions pose a danger to Russias allies
around the world. To communicate its concerns
on this front, the Kremlin has invited military
delegations from China, Iran, Egypt, and other
authoritarian regimes for meetings at which
countering color revolutions is an important
theme.® Russian propaganda encourages gov-
ernments to do what is necessary to put down
civil society challenges, and praises incumbents
who succeed.

4. Russia itself is under threat. “The aim is obvi-
ous,” Putin said of protests and social media ac-
tivity in 2015, “to provoke civil conflict and strike
a blow at our country's constitutional founda-
tions, and ultimately even at our sovereignty.”®

5. Incumbents are ‘legitimate’ rulers. Russian offi-
cials have stressed the legal and constitutional
legitimacy of authoritarian leaders facing major
protests, regardless of their crimes and blatant
abuses of human rights and democratic norms.
Moscow insisted that Yanukovych remained the
“legitimate” president even after he had aban-
doned his post to escape punishment for his
role in the crackdown on demonstrators.

6. Russia reserves the right to intervene in defense
of ethnic Russians. By asserting this right, the
Kremlin is effectively saying that any color rev-
olutions in neighboring states—many of which
have Russian-speaking minorities—could trigger
a Russian invasion, as in Ukraine. It could also
become a self-fulfilling prophecy, whereby the
governments of neighboring countries come
to mistrust and mistreat their ethnic Russian
citizens, providing the Kremlin with an excuse to
get involved.’

The Russian leadership's reaction to the color revolu-
tions, with its paranoid obsession with sinister outside
forces, is a clear indication of the lack of self-confidence
that is shared by all authoritarian powers. Whether the
state is led by a strongman, a politburo, or a supreme
religious leader, the world’s most repressive regimes
understand that their systems offer few regular outlets
for public frustration with government performance.

Fear of color revolutions has intensified since the 2014
events in Ukraine, with a particular focus on the alleged

24

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019258
