SECTION 3

The Chinese American Community

Chinese Americans have made essential contributions to almost every aspect of American
life for over a century. Although they form a vital strand in the social fabric of the United
States, Beijing also views Chinese Americans as members of a worldwide Chinese diaspora
that, whatever the actual citizenship of individuals may be, presumes them to retain

not only an interest in the welfare of China but also a loosely defined cultural, and even
political, allegiance to the so-called Motherland (#4). Under Xi Jinping’s leadership,
diaspora Chinese have been called on to help achieve the Rejuvenation of the Chinese
Nation—a summons that places growing pressure on ethnic Chinese around the world to
serve the “China Dream” (#8). While many overseas Chinese do feel pride in China as a
country and the Chinese as a race, Beijing’s claims on their loyalty can have the untoward
effect of calling into question their devotion to their own home nations.

Under both the Nationalist and Communist parties, overseas Chinese have played an
important role in modern Chinese politics as well as in China’s relations with the outside
world. Diaspora communities worldwide have been key sources of legitimacy and support
for whatever government held power in Beijing, but just as often they have been centers of
antigovernment agitation. With PRC influence-seeking activities now expanding, China’s
long-standing focus on diaspora communities has also intensified to become an important
element in overall US-China relations. Such trends demand not only greater societal
attention and understanding but also an appropriate response from the US government
as well as non-governmental institutions.

As the Chinese Communist Party seeks to encourage, even entice, ethnic-Chinese
communities and individuals overseas to more fully support its interests, the Chinese
Americans in the United States and other free societies need to better inform themselves
as to the nature of this dynamic, and our governmental institutions may need to do more
to defend their freedoms against harmfully intrusive and coercive activities. At the same
time, it is essential that we not allow overseas Chinese as an ethnic group to fall under
any kind indiscriminate cloud of suspicion. Above all, it is important to bear in mind
that while ethnic Chinese can be quite naturally expected to take an interest in things
Chinese, it is the Chinese Communist Party that puts a target on their backs through its
presumption that they are all somehow the “sons and daughters of the Yellow Emperor”
(KTP) and thus owe some measure of loyalty to the Chinese Communist Party.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020488
