Music As ARemedy For Parkinson's Gets Funding From Harvard University And...
MarketWatch (press release)
The results are remarkable, Jeffrey Epstein asserted. More studies need to be done to showthat music improves motor coordination. However, these
studies highlight how areas inthe auditory cortex are affected, providing aroad map forhowto ...

See all stories on this topic »

Exceptional Public Schools Cited By Obama, Get Critical Backing From Investor

U.S. Politics Today
Exceptional Public Schools Cited By Obama, Get Critical Backing From Investor, Jeffrey Epstein. Press release distribution provided

by US Politics Today.

World's Smartest Think Tank Gets Substantial Backing from The Jeffrey Epstein...

Sacramento Bee
PRNewswire/--Whathas been dubbed %22the world's smartest website%22 and think tank from the UK's Guardianand Observer, The Edge Foundation,
has justreceived substantial backing from science philanthropistand Edgemember, Jeffrey Epstein, ...

A Genetic Approach For Crohn's And Colitis Disease Is Financed By The Jeffrey...
MarketWatch (press release)

NEY YORK, July 3, 2012/PRNewswire via COMTEX/-- The Jeffrey Epstein VI Foundation, which actively supports science research, has given
substantial support to the Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of America to continue its Genetic Initiative to find a ...

Charter Schools In Washington DC Given A Boost By Education Philanthropist ...
MarketWatch (press release)
The Jeffrey Epstein VI Foundation which helped fund these schools, was established in 2000 to support science education throughout the United States

but has evolved to support innercity and youth based education. Charter schools, though generally ...

Largest School In Haiti To Be Built With The Support Of The Jeffrey Epstein VI ...

MarketWatch (press release)
NEW YORK, June 19, 2012/PRNewswire via COMTEX/ -- The largest grade schoolin Haiti, called Ecole du Bel-Air, is currently under constructioninthe
country's capital, Port-au-Prince, thanks to The Edeyo Foundation and the support of The Jeffrey ...

3s 2fe 2s 24s 2s 2 24s ois 2fe 2s 2fe fs fs 24s ois 2fe ois oie 2fs 2 2c ois 2fe ois fe of fe 2s ois 2fe ois 2fe 2s fe 2c ois 2fe ois fe of fe 2s ois 2fe ois 2fe 2s fe 2c ois ofc ois 2fe ois oie 2 ok 2 ok

The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of

Jeffrey Epstein

Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited
and may be unlawful. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and
destroy this communication and all copies thereof,
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028758
