From: Edward Rod Larsen [i

Sent: 10/30/2018 1:06:54 PM
To: Jeffrey Epstein [jeevacation@gmail.com]
Subject: Re: Essays

Importance: — High

will do

On Tue, Oct 30, 2018 at 11:18 AM J <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote:
essay 1. change next to the last sentence. Similarly. ....... to I look forward to accessing the cultural
resources in New York in order that I may continue my cultural journey.

On Tue, Oct 30, 2018 at 7:00 AM Edward Red Larsen (> wrote:

Essay 1.

Coming from an international background, and having lived in Oslo, Tel Aviv, New York and London by the age of eighteen, I
believe that the international profile of NYU will provide the best environment for my college education, with the added benefit of
returning to the place where I’ve spent most of my childhood and where my mother will be posted as Norwegian Ambassador to the
UN in January 2019.

NYU’s Art History department appeals to me because of its wide range of courses, from the global art of antiquity to the
contemporary. My passion is the Italian Renaissance and the rich history behind it, especially the works of 15th century masters
such as Masaccio and Bellini. Some of the courses that NYU offers such as “Early masters of Italian Renaissance painting” and
“Florentine Villas: An Interpretation Based on Historical, Social Factors” are, therefore appealing to me. What I find exciting, is not
only the visual aesthetics and analysis of these masterpieces, but also the manner in which the Renaissance emphasised

scientific and economic innovation, areas of study the Global Liberal Arts programme would offer. NYU’s unique campus in
Florence would give me a once in lifetime opportunity to spend a year immersing myself in the art, culture and history of Italy. This
would be an exciting experience to have while studying for a Bachelor’s degree in Art History, and would compliment my main
interests in the subject.

As one of the prime cultural centres in the world, NYU’s location in NYC ts the perfect place to broaden knowledge within
contemporary art. Iam very much looking forward to visiting the Whitney Biennia this May. In addition the New museum, which
shows a lot of the kind of work I find interesting is a short walk away from campus.

Taking advantage of being based in central London for the past year, I have completed the Chairman’s Programme at Christies,
work experience at the Courtauld Gallery and I will be working at Maddox Gallery in the near future. Similarly, I want to take
advantage of being based in NYC to gain as much experience as possible. I have chosen to apply Early Decision to NYU as it is the
only American university I will be applying to, as there is no better place to obtain experience of the contemporary art world than
New York City.

Essay 2.

From the age of extremes to the age of bewilderment

What captivates me more than anything else is the different ideological phases of the 20th century and how art can be used as
a tool of advancement and reflection on ideological and political developments.

My fascination began when I read; Eric Hobsbawm’s “Age Of Extremes” and has since developed through books such as

Benjamin Carter Hett’s “The Death Of Democracy” and Yuval Harari “A Brief History Of Tomorrow” and “21 Lessons For
The 21st Century”.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_033416
