income, estate, gift ,sales and use, transfer excise picasso, 1031 calder.. review and detailed oversite
of IRS SEC GAMING NYS. real estate, entity valuations ( many ) tax filings- disclosures, follow
up of grats, trusts ,defective trusts, llcs corps , trustees , partnerships. foreign corps. 100 bank
account need to be rationalized, not only having brad step in to children investments . gift taxes, trust
, loans, notes. payables. expenses allocations . . , insurance.( life , art, split dollar), cashflows,
operating biz, , investments, contingent liabilitiutes.( funds , miami ) , commitments funds and charities
, dividend treatment -important review of transcations relating to BRH ( amendments) TRA sale (
nuanced ) , shareholder agreements, bank loan agreements new bank relationships. ._ wills,
construction accounting and oversite , contracts planning permits etc..employee rules, regs, .
checking account reconciliations, crediti cards. jewelry , cost basis ,( art stock etc.) foundations regs
, brokerage accts,. stock options,( ie environmental solutions still not done !). estate tax calcualtion
firedrill, ( note ,basis etc ) review of boat expenses plane expenses, depreciation issues refunds etc. .
rationalize all outside counsels and accounting firms

Paul Weisss , Mcdermit Will, Macfarlanes. Price Waterhouse , Reich, withers bergman, Empire, ,
akin gump, bbd seidman, , Apollo in house counsel.

set up and oversee brokerage accounts at JPM DB GS and thoughfullly trade

.new IT system from top to bottom full time IT person

new accounting system - on- line banking cooridnated with reports . fire drills as per caruci ( he
sounds good ) and. audit system,s . review of john murphy? joslin? dag? eva? .

in house, review household ( 12million ) review, filings- partnerhip accounting,- familitarity with
grats, trusts etc . audit system put in place. that should be the easy part. then strategy re:

As new facts on the ground develop , phaidon debra, children meeetings, involvment , trustees
adjusted, stock sale sale of art, , apt( large gain ), 1031 trade in , plane depreciation, boat sale.
construction , brad will oversee brokerage and investment, ?? pe?. real estate?, . publishing,

grats, tra, brh ( death). foundation , museum, tax proejctions cash flow projections, cooridnation with
tax from apollo. etc

you are sitting on over 100 m of cash???!!

Subject: Re: we're calling the sales tax guy at 6:30 pm - I'll come to your office

To: Richard Joslin <i Brad Wechsler ie . Heather Gray
a -

sorry but this is emblematic of the silliness that appears to continue. ..... 1. How can we ask for a legal
opinion when it is crystal clear that we don't yet have accurate facts or numbers ,f. 2 Invoices have not
been reviewed! corporate structure is convoluted and unexplored in detail. ( was the boat captain on the
call?) 3 Paul weiss is the attny , and should be charged with getting us info. . 4. Bringing in yet another
outside lawyer without full vetting and consideration, a waste of time energy and money. .5. ex. what is
the location of charters shown on the invoice? do you know. .? if th invoices are incorrect, does that
give us any comfort in trying to defend an audit. . I saw three invoices only, and each had a different
owner or address ..

Date: Mon, May 18, 2015 at 8:17 AM

Subject: agenda for tomorrrow

To: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com>, Melanie Spinella <

as areflection on your voiced spirited concerns in the what have you done for me lately category ? ))::
in the beginning . there was eileen and tom. ( eve and adam,-- however it appears, she declined to

eat the apple from the knowledge tree)

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023279
