BBC World News

Robert Lawrence Kuhn

China’s Economy & Politics

President Xi’s ‘Four Comprehensives’
August 25, 2015

HOST: Dr. Robert Lawrence Kuhn is an advisor to the
Chinese government and author of How China’s
Leaders Think and he joins me now from Beijing. A
cut in interest rates today - but in China any economic
decision is always colored with politics.

RLK: Certainly people are concerned here, but you
have to realize a 43% drop in the Shanghai stock
market is still 25° above its 52-week lows, so what
the economists, government, tries to do is to
distinguish between the so-called real economy and
the stock market. Most people realize China’s stock
market was overvalued, but perception is reality, and
if people have less money on paper, they'll spend less,
and so the fall will affect the real economy.

And you're right, the way to look at such situations in
China is not just economically - you can’t look at
China without looking at politics, and here there are
two major areas. One is President Xi Jinping’s state
visit to Washington. This has been a very tense time
in Sino-US relations: South China Sea, cybersecurity,
human rights, lots of issues. But what this economic
uncertainty and volatility will do - I hope - is to make
both presidents focus on what really affects human
beings and human lives, focus on economic areas,
because this is where there can be some commonality
between China and the US. The contentious issues are
real, but economics is more real for people.

Domestically in China, it’s really interesting, because
in recent days, there have been editorials in People’s
Daily talking about extreme resistance to reform and
older leaders who are still involved and maybe
shouldn’t be, and so you have to look at domestic
politics in terms of what Xi Jinping, who is China’s
dominant leader, the president of the country, head
of the party, head of the military, and other titles as
well, and what his overarching policy is.

It’s called the “Four Comprehensives.” We learn from
each one. The first says that China wants to build a
‘moderately prosperous society’. That’s their short-
term goal. It’s not different than others have said in

- BBS News

CHINA MARKETS FALL

China cuts interest rates for fifth time since Nov

CHINA MARKETS FALL

China stocks continue to tumble

CHINA MARKETS FALL
Yesterday Shanghai markets saw biggest fall in 8 years

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023696
