TERSON

»f Spanish families — including
had invested with Drysdale.
indreds of millions of dollars.

2 investors.
ey Epstein was help in recover-

ing stupid,” she told him.

lyn accent. They blended well

vely.

is willing to help.

e, with the money. The family
lit? A scheme. He knew some of

_And now the money is gone.

in recall that he was bad off after

it was—from Bear Stearns. Mov-

a while. Sleeping in his lawyer's

i - Tower
an apartment in the Solow. Tower,

\fter all, Epstein left Bear Stearns
t Epstein’s lifestyle was expensive. 4
na was still in her twee =

ctors Studio—the New York City J

ien, and A

on Brando, Robert De Niro,

id all been members of.

ory impressive. In fact, IA'
was running out of his ap

4 formed a company, Internation

G was @
artments
BY

Firtuy Ricu

But if Ana had known that, would she have cared? She could
already see that Epstein was brilliant. And though she would
maintain that their friendship was strictly platonic, it was Ana
who helped set Epstein on his course. Like other beautiful
women he'd cultivate throughout his life, she opened doors to
whole other kingdoms.

Ones that no boys from Brooklyn had even dreamed of.

Andrew Levander was an assistant US attorney in the Southern
District of New York’s Securities and Commodities Fraud Task
Force. He was assigned to look into Drysdale’s collapse. The case
he was building would result in fraud convictions for a number
of Drysdale executives, and even today, Levander remembers
Epstein bringing “a very attractive woman” to meet him when
Epstein came to him in the course of the investigation.

The woman was Ana Obregon.

Levander told Ana that he was already working the case. A
lawyer named Robert Gold, who was a former federal prosecutor
himself, was assisting. And now Epstein would join them in the

hunt for the monies.

In effect, DGS had built a series of labyrinths, rabbit holes,

| deadfalls. And even investors who'd lost vast sums to the com-
q pany were less than forthcoming when it came to speaking
q to the US attorney. Several of the investors were foreign. Some
had violated their own countries’ laws pertaining to foreign
“investments.

This was where Epstein—with his calm, confident air of

G i cretion — came in.

__ Ana Obregon gave Epstein power of attorney over any monies

103

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022072

