Edwards, Bradley vs. Dershowitz

Case No.: CACE 15-000072

Edwards and Cassells Response to Dershowitz's Motion to Determine Confidentiality of Court Records
Page 9 of 20

January 5, 2015, Dershowitz filed a motion to intervene to argue to have the allegations
stricken. DE 282. Dershowitz also argued that Ms. Giuffre had not provided a sworn affidavit
attesting to the truth of her allegations. On January 21, 2015, Edwards and Cassell filed a
response for Ms. Giuffre and Jane Doe No. 4. DE 291. (Note: This is the second of the three
documents Dershowitz seeks to have kept under seal here.) The response enumerated nine
specific reasons why Ms. Giuffre’s specific allegations against Dershowitz were relevant to the
case, including the fact that Ms. Giuffre needed to establish that she was a “victim” in the case,
that pending discovery requests concerning Dershowitz-specific documents were pending, and
that Dershowitz’s role as a defense attorney in the case was highly relevant to the motive for the
Government and defense counsel to conceal the plea deal from the victims. DE 291 at 17-26 &
n.17. The response included a detailed affidavit from Ms. Giuffre about the sexual abuse she had
suffered from Epstein, Dershowitz, and other powerful persons. DE 291-1. On February 6,
2015, Edwards and Cassell filed a further pleading (and affidavit from Ms. Giuffre, see DE 291-
1) in support of her motion to intervene. (Note: this affidavit is the third of the three documents
Dershowitz seeks to have declared confidential.)

On April 7, 2015, Judge Marra denied Ms. Giuffre’s motion to join the case. Judge
Marra concluded that “at this juncture in the proceedings” details about the sexual abuse she had
suffered was unnecessary to making a determination “of whether Jane Doe 3 and Jane Doe 4
should be permitted to join [the other victims’] claim that the Government violated their rights
under the CVRA. The factual details regarding with whom and where the Jane Does engaged in

sexual activities are impertinent to this central claim (i.e., that they were known victims of Mr.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015629
