From: Nicholas Ribis [a

Sent: 1/3/2017 2:07:16 PM
To: ‘jeffrey E.' [jeevacation@gmail.com]
Subject: Trump appears with mobster-affiliated felon at New Year's bash/Joe Cinque

Importance: — High

Jeffrey --I thought you might be interested in this article-- Nick

Trump appears with mobster-affiliated felon at New Year's bash

President-elect Donald Trump rang in the new year together with Joseph Joey No Socks Cinque — a
convicted felon with ties to notorious Gambino crime family boss John Gotti, a recently released video has
revealed.

Cinque can be seen in a video obtained by the Palm Beach Daily News , cheering loudly as a tuxedo-clad
Trump runs through a number of campaign promises before the hundreds of guests attending the New Year's
Eve bash the President-elect threw at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida on Saturday.

The taxes are coming down, regulations are coming off, we're going to get rid of Obamacare, Trump can be
heard saying as an exuberant Cinque stands next to him, pumping his fists into the air.

Cinque's Sunday appearance with Trump might raise some eyebrows.

Beyond a 1989 felony conviction for possessing nearly $100,000 worth of stolen artwork, Cinque used to be
friends with John Gotti, according to a New York Magazine profile from 1995 .

Cinque was also shot three times and left for dead in a 1980 incident that authorities described as a hit,
according to the profile.

Further, Saturday's Mar-a-Lago party was far from the first time Cinque cheered on for Trump.

An Associated Press report from this spring showed that the American Academy of Hospitality Sciences, a
company owned and operated by Cinque, has awarded more than a dozen of Trump's golf courses, hotels,
casinos and private clubs with so-called Star Diamond awards of true excellence in hospitality.”

The same report also found that about half of the roughly 30 people listed as trustees to the company are
Trump friends or business associates.

Trump, meanwhile, was listed on the company's website as its ambassador extraordinaire,” and he even
appeared in a 2009 tribute video to Cinque in which he said, There's nobody like him. He's a special guy.

But when asked by reporters about Cinque in May, Trump denied knowing anything about him or his criminal
past.

Ifa guy's going to give you an award, you take it,” the President-elect said at the time. You don't tend to look
up his whole life story.”

The Trump transition team did not immediately return a request for comment on how the President-elect knows
Cinque or why they appeared together Saturday.

While standing alongside Cinque, Trump also took a moment to address the terror attack that left scores of
nightclub revelers in Istanbul dead over the weekend — and how the bloodbath somehow necessitates a
Mexican border wall.

“We will build a wall, you know that. We will build a wall,” the President-elect told the raucous crowd.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_033210
