launched into a wide-ranging lecture on global strategy. Trump was soon, and obviously,
distracted, and as the lecture continued he began sulking.

“That guy bores the shit out of me,” announced Trump after McMaster left the room.
But Kushner pushed him to take another meeting with McMaster, who the next day
showed up without his uniform and in a baggy suit.

“He looks like a beer salesman,” Trump said, announcing that he would hire McMaster
but didn’t want to have another meeting with him.

Shortly after his appointment, McMaster appeared on Morning Joe. Trump saw the
show and noted admiringly, “The guy sure gets good press.”

The president decided he had made a good hire.

OOK Ok

By midmorning on April 4, a full briefing had been assembled at the White House for the
president about the chemical attacks. Along with his daughter and Powell, most members
of the president’s inner national security circle saw the bombing of Khan Sheikhoun as a
straightforward opportunity to register an absolute moral objection. The circumstance was
unequivocal: Bashar al-Assad’s government, once again defying international law, had
used chemical weapons. There was video documenting the attack and substantial
agreement among intelligence agencies about Assad’s responsibility. The politics were
right: Barack Obama failed to act when confronted with a Syrian chemical attack, and now
Trump could. The downside was small; it would be a contained response. And it had the
added advantage of seeming to stand up to the Russians, Assad’s effective partners in
Syria, which would score a political point at home.

Bannon, at perhaps his lowest moment of influence in the White House—many still
felt that his departure was imminent—was the only voice arguing against a military
response. It was a purist’s rationale: keep the United States out of intractable problems,
and certainly don’t increase our involvement in them. He was holding the line against the
rising business-as-usual faction, making decisions based on the same set of assumptions,
Bannon believed, that had resulted in the Middle East quagmire. It was time to break the
standard-response pattern of behavior, represented by the Jarvanka-Powell-Cohn-
McMaster alliance. Forget normal—in fact, to Bannon, normal was precisely the problem.

The president had already agreed to McMaster’s demand that Bannon be removed from
the National Security Council, though the change wouldn’t be announced until the
following day. But Trump was also drawn to Bannon’s strategic view: Why do anything, if
you don’t have to? Or, why would you do something that doesn’t actually get you
anything? Since taking office, the president had been developing an intuitive national
security view: keep as many despots who might otherwise screw you as happy as possible.
A self-styled strongman, he was also a fundamental appeaser. In this instance, then, why
cross the Russians?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020026
