THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA

PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)

artnet

http://www.artnet.com/magazineus/news/artnetnews/frieze-week-preview10-8-10.as

HERE COMES FRIEZE WEEK

Oct. 8, 2010

Here it comes. Next week, Oct. 14-17, 2010, is London’s time to shine like the diamond it is in the international
art-market sun, as Frieze Week bows in the British super-city. With dozens of events and most of the best
galleries making the trip, the whole thing is exhausting just to think about. Here, then, a quick-and-dirty summary
of some of the highlights. We’re sure we’ve missed a few, but this’Il do to start:

FRIEZE
Of course the centerpiece, as usual, is the Frieze Art Fair itself, going up in Regent’s Park. The selection is top-
notch, with some 173 exhibitors on board, including most of the top dealers you’d expect.

MORE, MORE, MORE
Much more is going on, including big events like the launch of Ai Weiwei’s Turbine Hall installation at Tate
Modern. We, however, prefer to focus on some of the freakier offerings.

Or what about the The Museum of Everything in Primrose Hill, which was regarded as the most successful new
addition to the Frieze scene last year (according to the Independent). For the third exhibition at the space,
opening Oct. 13, Pop art pioneer Peter Blake curates a show of outsider art and artifacts, including pieces by
Morton Bartlett, James Castle, Henry Darger and Martin Ramirez. During Frieze Week, contemporary art stars
like Bob & Roberta Smith, Polly Morgan and Jeremy Deller are scheduled for various tours and talks at the
Museum. Worth a swing by.

Then there is the mysterious House of the Noble Man, Oct. 12-20, at 2 Cornwall Terrace, an 18th-century building
off Regent’s Park, near Frieze. What exactly this show is remains unclear, but it is some kind of conceptual selling
exhibition, sponsored by the Russian billionaire who owns the property, and curated by artist Wolfe von
Lenkiewicz with Russian curator Victoria Golembiovskaya. Lenkiewicz, for his part, describes it as a curatorial
concept playing with the idea of commerce, mirroring the [art] market with irony. The Art Newspaper reports
that some £20-million in art will be for sale, including works by Picasso and Cézanne, as well as a selection of
works from Charles Saatchi’s New Sensations 2010 roster of emerging artists, and the holdings of the lraqi-born
industrialist Ragdan El-akabi.

13

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028293
