KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP

Mr. Epstein is Required to Ag ree to Civil Liability In Order to Avoid a Federal Indictment

10.

11.

On July 31, 2007, during negotiations over a possible federal plea agreement, FAUSA
Sloman and AUSA Villafana demanded that Mr. Epstein agree to the imposition of civil
lability under 18 U.S.C. § 2255 as a pre-condition to deferral of federal prosecution. To
the best of our knowledge, the inclusion of such a term in a deferred prosecution
agreement of this kind is absolutely unprecedented? Specifically, Ms. Villafana
demanded that Mr. Epstein waive the right to contest civil liability to a list of individuals
she said were “victims” of § 2255, whose names, however, she refused to disclose, and
agree to pay damages of a minimum of $150,000 to each and every one of such
undisclosed individuals, and hire an attorney to represent them if they decided to sue
him. See Tab 20, July 31, 2007 Draft of Deferred Prosecution Agreement.

FAUSA Sloman and AUSA Villafana insisted that the identities of the individuals on the
list not be disclosed to Mr. Epstein or his counsel until after Mr. Epstein was already
sentenced in the state case.

(a) Over the next two months, Mr. Sloman refused to negotiate these terms. They
ultimately became incorporated into the final deferred prosecution agreement.
See Tab 21, September 24, 2007 Non-Prosecution Agreement, {{ 7-11.

(b) It was not until seven months later, in February 2008, that Epstein’s lawyers were
able to take their first official statement from one of the women FAUSA Sloman
alleged were minor victims of federal offenses.

(c) This statement, a deposition of | the initial complainant in the state
case, taken in the presence of her lawyer, proved that none of the necessary
elements for any federal charge could be satisfied based on  bricf
contact with Mr. Epstein. The witness also admitted lying to Mr. Epstein,
testifying that she told him that she was an adult and wanted him to believe that
she was an adult. See Tab 13, (deposition), p. 35 (“Q. So you
told Jeff that you were 18 years old, correct? A. Yes.”), 37 (“Q. You wanted Mr.
Epstein to believe that you really were 18, right? A. Correct.”).

(d) Shortly after this deposition, the defense was able to obtain statements from other
women on Mr. Sloman’s so called “list of § 2255 victims” and, so far, all such
statements also continue to demonstrate that Mr. Sloman’s repeated
representations to the defense about the existence of federal jurisdiction were
false.

understand that Villafana was recently reprimanded at a special hearing convened by a United States District
Judge in the West Palm Beach Division of the Southern District of Florida, for making misrepresentations
during a prior sentencing proceeding.

In fact, Stephanie Thacker, a former deputy to CEOS Chief Drew Oosterbaan, has stated that she knew of no
other case like this being prosecuted by CEOS.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012162
