From: Martin G. Weinberg fo

Sent: 3/18/2016 4:30:13 PM
To: jeffrey E. — : Kathy Ruemmler Po Darren Indyke
Subject: ATTORNEY-CLIENT PRIVILEGE

From: jeffrey E.
Sent: Friday, March 18, 2016 11:41 AM

To: Martin Weinberg ; Kathy Ruemmler ; Darren Indyke
Subject: Fwd: Patterson

woneoennee Forwarded message ----------

From: Michael Wolff

Date: Fri, Mar 18, 2016 at 11:39 AM

Subject: Patterson

To: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com>

A few things to think about:

If the Patterson book is being published in August, that presents some time frame issues. You would not be
able to do a competing book or documentary before then. This is not to say that they shouldn't be pursued. In
a sense, better that they know what Patterson's position is and, a year from now say, be able to counter it. |
have some thoughts on book and doc to share at your convenience.

That being said, you do need an immediate counter narrative to the book. | believe Trump offers an ideal
opportunity. It's a chance to make the story about something other than you, while, at the same time, letting
you frame your own story. Also, becoming an anti-Trump voice gives you a certain political cover which you
decidedly don't have now. Still, this necessary involves you going public. And so the most basic decision is
about your willingness to do that. My view is that in a couple of weeks you could master message and
technical proficiency. | know a bunch of people who could be very helpful here. This would involve something
along the lines of you writing an op-ed, doing a high profile television interview (Charlie Rose, I'd say), and
perhaps some social media efforts.

Speaking of which, again, | think a strategic plan, involving your public identity, philanthropic activities and
interests, and the development of media allies, ought finally to be put in place. A big, comprehensive,
expensive effort.

The alternative is to continue to keep head down and hope Patterson book is just more he-said she-said and
Connolly getting lost in the reeds (which, as an inveterate conspiracist, he always does). My worry is that
Patterson can be counted on to produce a bestseller, and while he isn't regarded as a serious writer, he'll
surely be unloading a lot of tabloid copy. Because this will be tied to the election, the Trump-Clinton angle will
amp up the attention 10-fold, in fact, possibly, a hundred fold. Possibly more than anything you've
encountered before.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_033589
