_ Jay P. LEFKOWITz, Esq.

May 19, 2008
PAGE 2 OF 6

Background

_ The Agreement was the product of months of negotiations. Specifically, you requested and
received numerous meetings, at the highest levels of the SDFL and DOJ’s Child Exploitation and
Obscenity Section (CEOS) concerning claims that (a) the investigation merely produced evidence
of telatively innocuous sexual conduct with some minors who, unbeknownst to Epstein,
misrepresented their ages; (b) the authorities investigating Epstein engaged in misconduct; (c) the
contemplated federal statutes have no applicability to this matter; and (d) the federal authorities
disregarded the fundamental policy against federal intervention with state criminal proceedings.
Aftercareful review, the SDFL ultimately rejected those claims. Subsequent to its decision, however,
but before proceeding any further, the SDFL provided you with 30 days to appeal the decision to the
Assistant Attorney General of the United States, Alice Fisher. As you recall, you chose to forego an
appeal to AAG Fisher, and instead pursued a negotiated resolution which, ultimately, resulted in the

_ execution of the Agreement.

The Negotiation Phase

During negotiations, you tried to avoid a resolution that called for incarceration and
registration as a sexual offender — both of which would be triggered by a successful federal
prosecution. The SDFL believed and continues to believe that should this matter proceed to trial,
your client would be convicted of the federal statutes identified in the Agreement. In order to achieve
a global resolution, the SDFL indicated a willingness to defer to the State the length of incarceration;
however, it remained adamant that Epstein register as a sex offender and that all victims identified
during the investigation remain eligible for compensation. In order to achieve this result, the parties
considered two alternatives, a plea to federal charges that limited Epstein’s sentencing exposure, or,
as suggested by you, a plea to state charges encompassing Epstein’s conduct. Ultimately, the parties
agreed to, inter alia, a plea to the state charges outlined in the Agreement, registration and a method
of compensation.

The Agreement

The crux of the Agreement defers in favor of the State federal prosecution of Epstein for his
sexual conduct involving those minor victims identified as of September 24, 2007, in exchange for
a guilty plea to a state-offense that requires registration as a sex offender; a sufficient term of
imprisonment; and a method of compensation for the victims such that they would be placed in the
same position as if Epstein had been convicted of one of the enumerated offenses set forth in Title
18, United States Code, Section 2255. Specifically, the Agreement mandates, inter alia, (1) a guilty
plea in Palm Beach County Circuit Court to solicitation of prostitution (F1. Stat. Section 796.07) and
procurement of minors to engage in prostitution (FI. Stat. Section 796.03) (an offense that requires
him to register as a sex offender); (2) a 30-month sentence including 18 months’ incarceration in
county jail; (3) a methodology to compensate the victims identified by the United States; (4) entry

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012199
