The outlook for macro policy and for the geopolitical

environment remains uncertain

Our fifth annual cycle of interviews took place

between January and March 2017. In speaking with

leading sovereign investors and central banks (with

assets in excess of US$12 trillion) we identified a

number of critical themes that shaped interview

responses. Unsurprisingly, we noted that the outlook

for macro policy and the potential for further

geopolitical shocks dominated discussions.

- Sovereigns see the end of QE (Quantitative
Easing) without a clear indication as to the form or
timeframe for further QT (Quantitative Tightening).
While the US has begun to raise interest rates, the
Federal Reserve is engaged in parallel measures
that may reduce the quantum and pace of further
increases; and there is uncertainty whether and
when other major markets will follow suit

- The bifurcation of the US and other developed
markets (notably the UK, Germany and Japan)
had significant implications for currency rates,
challenging sovereign geographic allocations

- Political change in developed markets (notably
Brexit and the US election) created volatility in
sovereign portfolios, challenging the robustness
of sovereign risk models. As policy changes are
worked through governments (e.g. the terms of
Brexit and US corporate tax reform), there will be
wider implications for long-term geographic and
asset allocation

- Emerging markets face various macro challenges,
with commodity prices recovering slowly (e.g. oil,
natural gas and copper) and an increasingly unstable
political outlook in Brazil and South Africa

06

Sovereigns face a continuing ‘return gap’
These dynamics suggest a continuation of the
‘lower rates, lower return’ environment over at
least the next 24 months. While the lower return
environment has been a consistent theme in past
years, in 2017 the implications are compounded,
with low interest rates the factor of greatest
importance to both strategic and tactical asset
allocations in figure 2. Risk asset valuations have
inflated over a number of years, while the near-
uniform tilt to alternatives such as infrastructure
has resulted in supply challenges and delays.

In 2016, all sovereign profiles displayed a
return gap (figure 3), driven by the low interest rate
environment, however this shortfall was greatest
among investment sovereigns. Traditionally, liability
sovereigns have hedged fixed income against
inflation (due to the focus on matching outflows
to beneficiaries), while investment sovereigns have
left their inflation exposure open. This has led to
investment sovereigns having the greatest return
gaps, as developed economies return to growth
and inflation rises. While liquidity and development
sovereigns are also suffering from low interest
rates, respondents noted that investment returns
were of secondary importance, relative to liquidity
and development objectives. Furthermore, liquidity
sovereigns noted that their long-duration fixed
income assets had increased in value as rates fell.

Against this, sovereigns are challenged by fixed
return targets, which are typically set to match
potential liabilities and do not adjust to market
conditions. Despite return challenges, we do not
see aconcurrent shift in investment activity
year-on-year (as we go on to explore).

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026686
