how development aid is spent internationally and how that can be driven away from — it
damages people on the ground but it also perpetuates a governing class. And the point
that you’re mentioning here, that I think that you’re saying has driven almost a revolution
movement in America, is the same phenomenon of what’s going on in the developing
world, which is a concept of government which is no longer doing what it is morally
bound to do but has become corrupt and self-serving. So it’s effectively the sa—
Bannon: It’s exactly the same. Currently, if you read The Economist, you read

the Financial Times this week, you'll see there’s a relatively obscure agency in the federal
government that is engaged in a huge fight that may lead to a government shutdown. It’s
called the Export-Import Bank. And for years, it was a bank that helped finance things
that other banks wouldn’t do. And what’s happening over time is that it’s metastasized to
be a cheap form of financing to General Electric and to Boeing and to other large
corporations. You get this financing from other places if they wanted to, but they’re

putting this onto the middle-class taxpayers to support this.

“I’m not an expert in this, but it seems that [right-wing parties] have had some aspects
that may be anti-Semitic or racial ... My point is that over time it all gets kind of washed
out, right?”

And the tea party is using this as an example of the cronyism. General Electric and these
major corporations that are in bed with the federal government are not what we’d
consider free-enterprise capitalists. We’re backers of entrepreneurial capitalists. They're
not. They’re what we call corporatist. They want to have more and more monopolistic
power and they’re doing that kind of convergence with big government. And so the fight
here — and that’s why the media’s been very late to this party — but the fight you’re
seeing is between entrepreneur capitalism, and the Acton Institute is a tremendous
supporter of, and the people like the corporatists that are closer to the people like we
think in Beijing and Moscow than they are to the entrepreneurial capitalist spirit of the
United States.

Harnwell: Thanks, Steve. I’m going to turn around now, as I’m sure we have some great

questions from the floor. Who has the first question then?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029052
