They're pretty numb at this point to favorable news because they've heard this before and nothing's happened, said Fort Lauderdale attorney Brad Edwards.

Edwards and Cassel said their goal is to have Epstein's plea agreement deemed to be in violation of federal victims’ rights legislation and invalidated.
Edwards said Epstein should face a new prosecution.

Edwards also said he was first told by the U.S. Attorney's Office that he would receive the correspondence documents on Monday, but was then told that
they weren't ready yet. Cassell said the documents number 300 pages.

In an email, Annette Castillo, spokeswoman for the U.S. Attorney's Office, Southern District of Florida, said the office couldn't comment.

isclarkson(@tribune.com, 56]-243-6609 or Twitter @BrettClarkson_

Copyright © 2014, South Florida Sun-Sentinel

fl-jefirey-epstein-federal-court-of-appeals-20140421

Upload a photo of Mom for a chance to win $200

. print

« Previous StoryMore Palm Beach County News: Local breaking news, events, info and updates for Palm Beach County and its surrounding
citiesNext Story »

[ES] Bail set at $600,000 for ex-\West Palm pain doctor charged in overdose deaths

. Bail set
at $600,000 for ex-West Palm pain doctor charged in overdose deaths
Boca Raton Children's Museum needs the city's helping hand

. Boca Raton Children's Museum
needs the city's helping hand

We've upgraded our reader commenting system. Learn more about the new features.

The Sun Sentinel welcomes civil dialogue about our stories; you must register with the site to participate. We filter comments for language and
adherence to our Terms of Service, but not for factual accuracy. By commenting, you agree to these legal terms. Please flag inappropriate
comments. Having technical problems? Check here for guidance.

Don't Miss These

Ea] Uploads
photo of
Mom for

Upload a photo of Mom for your chance to win

Ea) Prom photos:
Pictures
from South

i ees

Photos: South Florida high school proms

TOP VIDEOS

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030833
