capital raising, legal & compliance functions as well as the sound governance and ESG management across
all funds. Partnering with TIIC and BRIDGE has enabled Edmond de Rothschild to build a strong franchise
within infrastructure investments, complementing its overall Private Equity offering. Edmond de Rothschild
has also acted as anchor investor for these funds, demonstrating its strong alignment of interest with these
investment teams. With Ariane we strongly believe that we should absolutely find a way to collaborate
together with you to think and initiate something to serve the future needs of the US in the infrastructure
field.

Please find attached further information on each manager. This would also be a chance for us to explore
opportunities of working together in the future.

Please feel free to reach out to us if you require any further information. We look forward to hearing from
you soon.

THC

TIIC Group backed by Edmond de Rothschild, is a pan-European infrastructure firm advising on mid-market
infrastructure projects across Europe in both the transportation and social sectors. It was established in
2008 by the 3 founding partners of TIIC Group, Jaime d’Almeida, Manuel Cary and Francisco Mendes, with
strategic support from the Edmond de Rothschild Group and Brisa.

The aim of TIIC Group is to bring an operational approach to infrastructure investments in Europe, drawing
upon the extensive management and financial skills of its team members. These skills have been developed
over many years at some of Europe’s leading infrastructure operators and project financing firms which,
when combined with the very specific infrastructure expertise of both the Edmond de Rothschild Group
and Brisa, makes for a powerful and differentiated investment platform.

TIIC Group operates from two offices in Lisbon and Paris, providing its team with access to relevant
investment opportunities across key target markets in Europe as well as to leading industrial contractors,
operators, advisors and financiers in the infrastructure industry.

TIIC Group successfully raised a First Fund with €140m of commitments targeting transportation
investments across Europe. The portfolio of the First Fund comprises 6 assets located in Portugal, Spain,
France and Poland. They represent a carefully balanced mix of greenfield and early stage brownfield
projects in roads and car parks. TIIC Group has played an active role in the sourcing and development of all
investments and has made a significant contribution to value creation. TIIC Group believes that this is a high
quality, operationally secure, cash yielding portfolio of assets which will be of strong interest to potential
investors over the coming few years.

TIIC has launched a successor fund, TIIC 2, which will build upon TIIC Group’ differentiated approach to
infrastructure in Europe. TIIC 2 will is targeting aggregate commitments from investors of €300m (€350m

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026432
