Growth of the US for both returns and protection
The attractiveness of the US has been driven by
interest rate rises (with expectations for further raises
this year) and bond yields lagging in other developed
markets (figure 8). There is also market confidence of
a ‘pro-business’ corporate tax regime following Trump
taking office in January 2017, causing sovereigns

to note the growth potential of US equity markets
(with 40% of sovereigns expecting to increase North
American allocations in 2017), as other developed
market stocks remain flat. Currency strength
underlies this optimism (USD up 3% against EUR and
20% against GBP in 2016‘), with some sovereigns
deliberately targeting dollar exposure through their
international investments. Liability sovereigns noted
the dual benefit of the open currency position, both
eliminating hedging costs and generating additional
returns relative to home market currency.

In our 2015 sovereign study, we highlighted the
attractiveness of real estate investments in developed
markets. Under FIRPTA (Foreign Investment in
Real Property Tax Act), sovereign appetite for real
estate investment in the US has further grown. Most
notable, however, is the growing optimism around
the potential for new infrastructure deals in the
US following political campaigning suggesting an
investment opportunity of USS1 trillion.

Despite positivity, sovereigns in Europe and Asia
noted that successful US real estate investments
gave no guarantee of similar opportunities within
infrastructure. Many respondents were concerned
about growing protectionism in the US, questioning
if it might both limit access to infrastructure and real
estate investments for foreign sovereigns and would
have long-term economic implications as foreign
relations are strained.

1Source: XE currency data. Data from 01 January
2016-01 January 2017.

16

Fig 8. 10-year government bond yields

US UK Germany Japan

0.0

Source: US - US Treasury Resource Center, UK - Bank of England Data, Germany - Bundesbank
Statistics, Japan - Ministry of Finance Interest Rate Index. Data taken as daily average yield on
30 December 2016.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026696
