Another suit alleges sex during massage Page 1 of 2

@2) PRINTTHIS

Palm Beach Post Staff Writer . - Browse
Specials
Thursday, March 06, 2008 2 Deals

From Local
Dealerships

WEST PALM BEACH — Another woman filed a federal lawsuit against Jeffrey
Epstein on Wednesday, alleging that he turned a massage she gave him at his Palm
Beach mansion into a sexual episode when she was 16 years old.

Identified as Jane Doe No. 3, she is seeking more than $50 million, the same as a
two other Jane Does who filed similar lawsuits in the past six weeks. All three suits were filed by
Miami lawyer Jeffrey Herman.

More crime coverage Herman subsequently withdrew the first
Jane Doe's lawsuit because of squabbling
by her parents over the litigation. The girl
may refile the suit after she turns 18 in May
and can make her own decisions, Herman
said.

Most recent headlines
Fugitives | Sex offenders

crime blog

Ost

Other alleged victims also have contacted
him, Herman said. I do anticipate more
cases, he said.

More local news
Latest breaking news, photos and all of today's Post stories.
Share This Story

In the latest litigation, Jane Doe No. 3 alleges that she was recruited by a former college student, Haley
Robson, to give Epstein a massage for money at his waterfront home late in 2004 or early in.2005.

The lawsuit alleges that, while on the massage table, Epstein sexually touched Jane Doe No. 3, then
masturbated. She is suing on grounds of sexual assault and intentional infliction of emotional distress.

She felt intimidated. She felt scared, Herman said. Jane- Doe No. 3 made only the one visit to Epstein's
home, he said.

“It's just another copycat lawsuit filed by the same lawyer who appears less interested in the truth than in
grandstanding with these press conferences, said Jack Goldberger, one of Epstein's attorneys. We now
have sworn testimony that girls lied about their age to Jeffrey Epstein, and they were careful in being

http://palmbeachpost.printthis.clickability.com/pt/cpt?action=cpt&title=Another-+tsuittalleg... 4/2/2008
HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012651
