with little useful warning, and anyhow with a merciless and unstoppable efficiency.
Connected, surprising terrorism has cost trillions to fight; linked-up network
businesses have demolished, surely and even gladly, trillions of dollars of old profit
sources with their cold, clicking efficiency. Skype blitzes hundreds of billions of
dollars of long distance telephone profits, for instance. And replaces it with free.
Amazon, in the space of a few years, cripples marketplace ideas built at the cost of
trillions of dollars.

The world we're entering into now, one of constant, sensor-filled data streams that
give us areal-time feeling for everything from the temperature of your car before
you get in to the pace of your heart as you sleep, means the potent, network forces
of our day are not “blind” as Morgenthau’s states were, but gifted with an exactness
of vision. They see everything, always, more than we or our leaders do. They see it
constantly. They never forget. Networks seem to have an irresistible and amazing
energy that impels them to find and then exploit pin-holes. Think of Al-Qaeda coolly
regarding the American airline network in 2000, for instance. Or rising powers now
poking at weaknesses in the international order that we’ve not yet begun to
consider, let alone patch up. Whether confronting mobs of network-organized
terrorists or cascades of computer error, we often discover the unnerving truth that
on these connected systems there is no plug to pull.

Networks of one sort or another are hardly new in international affairs, even if the
sheer scale and speed of our modern systems is totally, revolutionarily fresh. The
spiderwebbed tendrils of the Ganges River, for instance were a network that fed the
Mughal Empire in the 16 and 17 centuries.”* The Yangtze and the Yellow and the
Mekong river systems each marked out vital webs that carried wealth and
knowledge into a half-dozen, spectacularly rich Chinese dynasties. Egypt and
Mesopotamia developed great powers that endured for centuries along the Nile and
the Euphrates. Later, networks of trade overlaid the Mediterranean, which became
the heart of the wealthy Carthaginian, Roman and Byzantine empires. And the
greatest geographical empire in history, Great Britain, was nothing if not a network
power, run on sea lines. Waterways, for centuries, pulsed with power. They were
vital for trade, essential in war and crucial for national freedom.

Network empires emerged on land too, assembled from connected webs of politics,
of silk and tobacco and gold, or from shared religious passions. These sorts of
networks, sometimes as thin as the trail of a single adventurer like Marco Polo,
carried promises of prosperity (and intimations of violence) as they spread. Baron
Antoin-Henry Jomini, Napoleon’s inspired tactical accomplice, was onto something
when he remarked that it was the interior, networked lines of communication and
logistics that had decided and delivered victory for history's great empires.
“Methods change,” Jomini observed, “but principles are unchanging.” The skeins of
links running inside national war machines were as essential for security as any

74 The spiderwebbed tendrils: Peter Turchin, “A theory for the formation of large
agrarian empires”; Jean-Paul Rodrigue, Claude Comtois, and Brian Slack, The
Geography of Transport Systems Routledge 2006 p. 10-15

54

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018286
