The pay rule joins free growth theory and the Y rule as the three major surprises
promised in my title. Recovery of human depreciation in pay changes a lot of
equations. It does not impact public policy and tax laws as radically as free growth
theory, but I will argue that it impacts them enough. Even if it didn’t, itis probably
the most startling assertion in this book from an economist’s viewpoint. And
although I now know better than to claim originality for any idea in economics, this
one just might pass the test. If someone out there knows a precedent closer than
Becker’s, as | eventually found ones for what I had thought were my own free
growth and next generation theories, all the more fun in finding those unsuspected
precursors. (Next generation theory will be outlined soon.) And the two proofs
leave no doubt. I will add a few more as we go. It is never overkill to drive another
stake through the heart of entrenched misperception. Meanwhile we can already be
as sure of that expected recovery, not actual recovery, as of anything we know. The
arguments from the maximand rule (Turgot’s insight) and the deadweight loss rule

are unanswerable.

An analogy from something else we all know leads to the rest of my argument. Pay
over working careers is something like payments over the period of a declining-
balance mortgage. Mortgage payments are partly amortization and partly interest.
Amortization is like depreciation, although without the same sense of physical wear
and tear behind it, and interest is like the worker’s output marketed to employers.
The declining balance is like human capital. Mortgage payments are almost all
interest at the start of the loan, when the declining balance is almost the whole loan
amount, and then gradually less interest and more amortization as the balance
shrinks. As the balance approaches zero at the end, the payment approaches all

amortization while the interest share approaches zero.

My depreciation theory, which we'll come to soon, argues that depreciation follows
the same logic and the same math. I will argue, in the face of what has seemed to be

contrary evidence, that depreciation of both factors begins at zero and grows

Chapter 2: Fast Forward 1/06/16 16

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010956
