thereafter for 6 months ie march may june . this can begin ifi am able in January. I will immediately stop
work , if the payment is not received. If you want me to work this year until Jan 15, it will be 10

million. paid upfront. after one year you will be left with a new estate plan a running office. staffed with
professionals overseen by Barry. (hallelujah ) a tax plan . and an investment that returns more than any
painting you could possible own. _. no agreement - no work. however - I of course will talk to Barry for the
hour that i promised , and take your guidance as to what I should say.

Date: Mon, Aug 29, 2016 at 1:41 PM
Subject: I know you have a lot on your mind.but..

To: Melanie Spinella as

sent to you JAN 29th 2016

you've agreed that
Your office is a multi billion dollar responsibility. your children will inherit it , in order to oversee their
financial lives- I feel for you, truly ,but the facts are the facts, your ceo ( Brad) has provided one bad
document after another for over a year , no getting away from it,, bad cashflows nonewIT, each time
with  its gettting better no in fact -!itsnot. - the excuse, that Brad is not the numbers guy, is ludicrous.
of course he didnt actually prepare the statements. - no ceo would ,- but over and over he presented them to
you and me, after , holding them back for his personal review multiple times and after multiple drafts. weeks
of his editing, the consistant but inexplicable missing the obvious serious errors .( gaming ) inaccuracies,
( cashflow ) and mistakes (tax returns). why, ?! the simple answer is that at best, he is ac minus, (note. I, like
you ,also give points for effort. )-! an elegant art partnership gone fallow. ??!!I and its core reason to exist.
not used ? no docs for plane?, still! why? no docs for decantings why? the docs for deal | received last
night , no docs at all for deal 2, the biggest . why wasn't Tom brought in, after 4 times of my incessant
reminders your admonition etc. the trading accounts ?

Barry Cohen is great. more like him please .
you asked ,- I did my best trying to train your brad chosen people in the face of my telling you that they were
never going to be more than c-minuses, thousands of emails thousands? _ Brad at its head . you can't asa
ceo, have an accountant give you multiple pages with the most important numbers missing altogether and not
notice, you and IJ saw the errrors right away ,as did my very junior bookeeper after only a cursory glance. He
told me he didnt know the details of his note? ! , my guess is that he wanted to pay less. no more than that, any
other story is blather. its silly. Talk to richard yourself.
re your estate. Yes another Brad issue - your will, needs revision. the tenants in common structure I assume
Alan has carefully walked you through. it is way overdue, needed and exciting. I won't list the more serious
issues in an email but we can speak over the weekend.
How can IT help? We agreed at the time when you hired Castrucci , that when you fired him, I would bear no
responsibility

Date: Thu, May 12, 2016 at 6:17 AM

Subject: tight schedule lets try a set time to speak

To: Melanie Spinella

Leon, you hired me to produce a work of art. it was not inexpensive. the value far exceeds any other piece in
your collection.- by FAR. It took me 30 years to be able to craft such a work. I understand your desire to
modifiy my work, in doing so you have brad telling me , just a bit more red., here let me show

you, you yourself pick up a brush a add some strokes. you have joslin spray water on it to maintain it. I
vigorously complain that joslin in ruining my work... you describe me as zeus, i describe it as artist and a
reaction to his work being ruined. however Im aware that you own the work and you have the right to paint
over it. tear it up , put it in the closet in the basement . its yours.

I was told that Toms office is sending someone in ,or some people in, to review some things. brad told me

,the partnership accounting. I know absolutely nothing more than that. though bringing in his team was my idea
. Having them review things without even asking for my input , or let alone my direction ,is ridiculous. but.. I

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023325
