in relationships, | continue to be erotically spellbound, in love with them in all their
forms. Questions about how to think about these exquisitely sensitive women, Bell’s
Syndrome exists but is rarer in men, continue to drive aspects of my scientific
research. It has been variegated quest, which began with trying to find a general
conceptual framework that would help my understanding of this unique capacity to
be aware and process large amounts of internal and external information that
escape the awareness of most of us. As one might guess, this search led to
fundamental ideas about information and its inverse, the entropy indicating the
amount of information transport capacity, with respect to their characterization,
quantification and measurement.

To get to the end from close to the beginning, we recall that it was Claude
Shannon and his followers who both mathematically proved and experimentally
verified that a receiver must have more entropy, less already fixed knowledge and
more wondering, than the sending source, in order for the message to be sensitively
and reliably received and encoded. Sensibility seems to have something to do with
the readiness for information transmission afforded by the brain’s high entropy,
minimal fixed information states, in its resting dynamics. Their remarkable
receptivity derives from a baseline brain state like the formless emptiness of the

t

bodhisattva’s “...no form, no sound, no_ feelings, no _ perceptions, no

n

consciousness...” of transcendent Tibetan Buddhism as described in the Heart
Sutra of The Dalai Lama.

In Chinese Medicine, xu, meaning emptiness, contrasts with shi, the word for
fullness, both of these complementary opposites having multiple specific meanings.
Most metaphysically relevant is the characterization of xu as the emptiness of the
deepest reality of being and the highest state of human spirituality. Like that aspect
of Lao-Tsu’s ineffable Dao, The Way that is empty, xu indicates a mind devoid of
desire, being lucid and serene. In the context of dynamical form, xu shares the
structureless, non-imagery of maximal entropy systems and shi the lower dynamical
entropy of fixations on form, desires and beliefs. Shigehisa Kuriyama’s The
Expressiveness of the Body, elucidating historical and conceptual divergences of

Greek and Chinese Medicine, notes that xu was the supreme end of self-cultivation

67

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013567
