Scott Link
June 19, 2019
Page 4

HE thought this is what it must feel like to become a woman. She was both
thrilled and ashamed. She followed the path that Mr. Epstein set out for her because he said if
she trusted him and did what he told her to do, everything would go according to his plan and her
career would soar. Without him the world was a scary and unpredictable place. When she was
with him, she felt like everything was right because of how much love and care she received
from him. She started to think and believe that they would be together and that he would marry
her.

He used the purple massage vibrator on her time and time again. She closed her eyes
feeling lost, overwhelmed and out of control.

When he stuck his penis in her mouth, she did what she was told. She choked and
gagged and when she tried to move her head away he forced it back into place. Mr. Epstein was
extremely aggressive. When it was over he told her how amazing she was. She continued to
believe in Mr. Epstein’s friendship and guidance.

Mr. Epstein took her virginity. This was the trajectory for which he groomed her. |
WE first sexual experience was devoid of tenderness or affection. She was stripped down
and made to shower. Mr. Epstein told her, “If you’re lying about being a virgin, or I get a
disease from you, I’ll kill you.” She felt her mind separate from her body during intercourse.

She began to feel like a shell of her former self. She was mortified and in agony. She
felt she had become everything her parents feared she would become. She was appearing in
beauty magazines and making hundreds of thousands of dollars, but felt dirty and worthless. Mr.
Epstein made her feel like nothing more than a teenage prostitute. Everything came crashing
down once she realized that this was not love.

| left Mr. Epstein’s residence for the last time feeling less than human. On
her way out, she passed a young girl who appeared to be another young model. As
turned around to glance back, she saw the young woman entering Mr. Epstein’s residence. She
was disgusted with the realization that she was one of many called to “massage” Epstein.

had a nervous breakdown while alone in New York. She found herself
crying inconsolably, shaking, hyperventilating and unable to go to her castings and meetings.
She was suicidal. She feared confiding in her agents and reaching out for help from them
because she was so ashamed. She booked a ticket to go home.

She flew back to Kansas where her parents were living. She never returned to New York.

PF | was devastated with the realization of what she was lured into and how she

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010563
