e Connectivity: Human neurons typically support several hundred connections
(synapses). Moreover, the complex pattern of these connections is very
meaningful. (See our next point.) Computer units typically make only a handful
of connections, in regular, fixed patterns.

e Development (self-assembly with interactive sculpting): The human brain grows
its units by cell divisions and orchestrates them into coherent structures by
movement and folding. It also proliferates an abundance of connections among
the cells. An important part of its sculpting occurs through active processes
during infancy and childhood, as the individual interacts with his or her
environment. In this process, many connections are winnowed away, while others
are strengthened, depending on their effectiveness in use. Thus, the fine structure
of the brain is tuned through interaction with the external world—a rich source of
information and feedback!

e /ntegration (sensors and actuators): The human brain comes equipped with a
variety of sensory organs, notably including its outgrowth eyes, and with versatile
actuators, including hands that build, legs that walk, and mouths that speak.
Those sensors and actuators are seamlessy integrated into the brain’s information-
processing centers, having been honed over millions of years of natural selection.
We interpret their raw signals and control their large-scale actions with minimal
conscious attention. The flip side is that we don’t know how we do it, and the
implementation is opaque. It’s proving surprisingly difficult to reach human
standards on these “routine” input-output functions.

These advantages of human brains over currently engineered artifacts are
profound. Human brains supply an inspiring existence proof, showing us several ways
we can get more out of matter. When, if ever, will our engineering catch up?

I don’t know for sure, but let me offer some informed opinions. The challenges
of three-dimensionality and, to a lesser extent, self-repair don’t look overwhelming.

They present some tough engineering problems, but many incremental improvements are
easy to imagine, and there are clear paths forward. And while the powers of human eyes,
hands, and other sensory organs and actuators are wonderfully effective, their abilities are
far from exhausting any physical limits. Optical systems can take pictures with higher
resolution in space, time, and color, and in more regions of the electromagnetic spectrum;
robots can move faster and be stronger; and so forth. In these domains, the components
necessary for superhuman performance, along many axes, are already available. The
bottleneck is getting information into and out of them, rapidly, in the language of the
information-processing units.

And this brings us to the remaining, and I think most profound, advantages of
brains over artificial devices, which stem from their connectivity and interactive
development. Those two advantages are synergistic, since it is interactive development
that sculpts the massively wired but sprawling structure of the infant brain, enabled by
exponential growth of neurons and synapses, to get tuned into the extraordinary
instrument it becomes. Computer scientists are beginning to discover the power of the
brain’s architecture: Neural nets, whose basic design, as their name suggests, was directly
inspired by the brain’s, have scored some spectacular successes in game playing and
pattern recognition, as noted. But present-day engineering has nothing comparable—in

60

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016863
