humanities project among the list of projects the Dean supports. The money did it: as soon as they
heard about the gift, they took my project more seriously. Because of that gift, the Faculty of Arts
and Sciences, which is space-stingy, found and rewired a studio space for me to house my video
production operation and team. That gift woke up the Deans to the importance of Harvard's role in
producing the highest quality humanities content for the WORLD, and not just for Harvard students.
My main employee has half of her salary paid with these funds, and the foundation of our collection
for PBS LearningMedia is being made with this support. This gift represented one of the most
consequential shifts of the last year, allowing me create content and launch projects this year that
make future projects that much more likely. If | can keep this base sturdy at Harvard, refilling these
coffers, | will be that much more able to keep working.

| am also so grateful for the help you gave me in defining my project for Templeton, and, what help
you have offered to give in bringing them around. | have, since Templeton turned me down, gotten
funding to produce video on two of the poems I'd proposed to Templeton and to create, and test,
that video in schools as | proposed. One of my partners in that project is Success Academy, where |
could also expand my work with Templeton. And there are still other poems that may satisfy their
character criteria more fully, including the third of the poems I'd originally proposed and that Joe
Biden had agreed to discuss with me (on parenthood and humility). At this point, I'm gaining the
platform and the name recognition to be an effective spokesperson for the foundation on building
literacy and character in the schools.

It really means a lot to me, all financial help aside, Jeffrey, that you are rooting for me and thinking
about me. You push back a lot (as Larry does), and it’s always annoying but | always learn.

With abundant gratitude,
Lisa

Elisa New

Powell M. Cabot Professor of American Literature
Harvard University

148 Barker Center

12 Quincy Street

Cambridge, MA

02138

please note
The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of
JEE
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited
and may be unlawful. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029244
