same dim, comfortably dangerous instincts that undid Mubarak. These kids can't
possibly amount to much. The youth of these groups, the very fact that they were not
the varsity team, their intimate fingertip familiarity with virtual spaces - all this
gave this new generation of movements energy, appeal, attraction. Even in countries
that looked technologically “backwards” by American standards, linked systems
speed-bred revolution, they gleefully filled in for a failed traditional media, and they
accelerated and enabled the creation of groups as different as the Syrian Electronic
Army and Occupy Hong Kong.®”

Traditionally, such a long list of hopeless exclusions (no money, no friends, no
access, no power) added up to an easy judgment of irrelevance. But ISIS was like the
the Iranian bloggers and American social justice campaigners and Swedish digital
pirates and vengeful Houthi fighters who were all staring back, confidently, at the
people who had the money, the friends and the power - and the drones. Obama and
Mubarak and - fill in the blank with a powerful name or institution - were too slow.
Out of touch. Their connections were all wrong. So while the individual parts of the
new networks - young students, poorly trained armed fighters - were soft and
human and easy to destroy, they still tore unstoppably at old power. Tied together,
the connected systems themselves were capable of more than their individual
strength might suggest. What they shared wasn’t simply a single issue or identity. It
was cheap, constant connection. And they were, frankly, furious.

The old guys were crafty, of course. They tried to shut down the technology itself. Or
they aimed at crucial points on the network. “Arrest or kill the leaders you can find!”
was the sort of order that bolted stability back onto Iran, for example. Other
governments found they could crack the will of the protesters by going after their
relatives. “Relational repression,” as it became known, was the closest a big power
could get, quickly, to using one network to fight another. And there were other
strategies: The Egyptian military, for instance, played a deadly serious long game.
They gave in on a few points. They let the massed opposition and Islamic networks
come to power. But this was merely a pretext, a way to map the ties of these groups,
to coldly study how they functioned and record the secret sources of their power
and influence and money. Then, when the Egyptian population tired of these failing,
amateurish new leaders - as the military knew they someday would - the generals
moved.

Skeptics would demand of Castells: What the hell did any of these protests really
accomplish? What sort of reevolootion was it that left nothing but chaotic sink holes
in Tripoli and Damascus? What they accomplished, Castells conceded, was mostly
destructive. But that was the point. This smashing at old laws, the cracking apart of
ideas of power and control had changed the landscape. And it had revealed a hidden
logic of connection. Irrelevant? That was like saying earthquakes or epidemics
should be overlooked. In their vibrating apart of once-solid structures, networked
social movements told a great deal. They revelaled interconnected fault lines. They

87 Even in countries: Edwin Grohe “The Cyber Dimensions of the Syrian Civil War:
Implications for Future Conflict,” Comparative Strategy, (2015) 34:2, 133-148

64

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018296
