5.3 An Architecture Diagram for Human-Like General Intelligence 101

Each of these long-term memory types has its analogue in working memory as well. In some
cognitive models, the working memory and long-term memory versions of a memory type and
corresponding cognitive processes, are basically the same thing. CogPrime is mostly like this
— it implements working memory as a subset of long-term memory consisting of items with
particularly high importance values. The distinctive nature of working memory is enforced via
using slightly different dynamical equations to update the importance values of items with
importance above a certain threshold. On the other hand, many cognitive models treat working
and long term memory as more distinct than this, and there is evidence for significant functional
and anatomical distinctness in the brain in some cases. So for the purpose of the integrative
diagram, it seemed best to leave working and long-term memory subcomponents as parallel but
distinguished.

Figure 5.4 also encompasses metacognition, under the hypothesis that in human beings and
human-like minds, metacognitive thinking is carried out using basically the same processes as
plain ordinary deliberative thinking, perhaps with various tweaks optimizing them for thinking
about thinking. If it turns out that humans have, say, a special kind of reasoning faculty
exclusively for metacognition, then the diagram would need to be modified. Modeling of self
and others is understood to occur via a combination of metacognition and deliberative thinking,
as well as via implicit adaptation based on reactive processing.

PERCEPTUAL SUBSYSTEMS

MORE ABSTRACT ASPECTS
OF SENSORIMOTOR MEMORY

ary SOMATO- |
OLFACTION SENSORY
VISION AUDITION
HIERARCHY HIERARCHY

ACTION
HIERARCHY

Fig. 5.5: Architecture for Multimodal Perception

Figure 5.5 models perception, according to the basic ideas of deep learning theory. Vision and
audition are modeled as deep learning hierarchies, with bottom-up and top-down dynamics. The
lower layers in each hierarchy refer to more localized patterns recognized in, and abstracted from,
sensory data. Output from these hierarchies to the rest of the mind is not just through the top
layers, but via some sort of sampling from various layers, with a bias toward the top layers. The
different hierarchies cross-connect, and are hence to an extent dynamically coupled together. It
is also recognized that there are some sensory modalities that aren’t strongly hierarchical, e.g

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013017
