CHAPTER 36

2002

ary editor of Vanity Fair, likes to
yell before the rest of his staff

erate at a leisurely pace— three
assigning articles, and shooting
mn followed by one frantic week
; done. But this isn’t the case at
itting investigative pieces along-
; There are also parties to plan

us parties, including the annual
e fun and far more exclusive than

ny itself. Vanity Fair is an old, 4
public face, just as Anna Wintour 4

ic fashion magazine, Vogue.

142

bk se Ta etal

Fittuy Ricw

One cover of Vanity Fair can turn a minor celebrity into a
superstar. And a single thoroughly researched story can bring
down a corporate overlord.

Carter's easy to recognize: the pompadour of white hair, like
a lion’s mane. The Santa Claus body stuffed into an impeccably
tailored bespoke suit. He wears his fame lightly. But he could not
be more serious about his responsibilities, which are weighing
heavily on him this month. Months earlier, he'd assigned a piece
to Vicky Ward, an Englishwoman who wrote frequently for Van-
ity Fair. He’d meant for it to be an easy assignment: Ward was
pregnant with twins. She wasn’t allowed to fly. But here was a
story right on her doorstep. A nice, easy profile of Jeffrey Epstein.
Who was he, really? Carter knew he threw fabulous parties
attended by academics, billionaires, and beautiful women. Recently
he'd flown Bill Clinton to Africa. But no one seemed to know
how he had made his fortune. Epstein’s story reminded the edi-
tor of F. Scott Fitzgerald’s The Great Gatsby.

Carter himself could have stepped out of a novel—though in
his case, the author would be Horatio Alger. A Canadian college
dropout who'd worked as a railroad lineman, he arrived in New
York in his late twenties and commenced an astonishingly quick
rise up the social and media ladders. But where Carter was open
and outgoing, Epstein really was Gatsby-like—-very little about
him was known. Maybe, Carter thought, Ward could find out.
What did Epstein do, exactly, for money? Why was he so secretive?

| Why were so many brilliant and powerful men drawn to him?

“a
)

And where did those beautiful women come from?
Almost immediately, Epstein began a campaign to discredit

q Ward. He prevailed upon Conrad Black, the press baron and

143

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021999
