hope you understand that it now will have to be under my standard terms and conditions. and well
documented so as to avoid any more of the he said she said. I never want to have any more
uncomfortable money moments with you , I find it very distasteful. . so to be clear , my terms are as
follows. I will only work for the usual 40 million per year. It needs to be paid, 25 million upon signing
an agreement. 5 million every 2 months thereafter for 6 months ie march may june . this can begin if 1
am able in January. I will immediately stop work , if the payment is not received. If you want me to
work this year until Jan 15, it will be 10 million. paid upfront. after one year you will be left with a
new estate plan a running office. staffed with professionals overseen by Barry. (hallelujah ) a tax plan .
and an investment that returns more than any painting you could possible own. _. no agreement - no
work. however - I of course will talk to Barry for the hour that i promised , and take your guidance as
to what I should say.

11:45 PM (13 hours ago)
to me

im in paris now

Date: Sun, May 1, 2016 at 6:51 PM
Subject: Fwd: Valuation Discount
To: Melanie Spinella Fa
Leon please read the attached proposed response to the IRS__, see if you can understand it !!!._ Ive asked
for are-do. and given prelimiary directions to Alan to have it edited over the weekend

If you are quarterbacking ,ok with me. just please let everyone know. you must deal with the
outrageous incompetence in your family office .. Alans words  but I was told that.. , but I was told by
the office (sic) that ..., BUT 1 was told by joslin,. , but I was told by .  why is leon blaming me for ..
I ve have always given you my best advice, If you reflect on your financial life , you have been kept safe ,
had remarkable results and no disasters. I have repeatedly urged you to get rid of the people in your
office. , you have repeatedly chosen to ignore my advice , you told me last week that the emotional
reason was in order to be weaned off my group and not have to pay my high fees. ( though ignoring
the benefit of between 1.5 and 2b to the better. ). and no explosions. You have email after email
»where i remind you that I am not your bookkeeper or accountant ( in brads corporate speak his finance
dept ??!!) that it should be redone .I have reviewed a multitude of the silly reports given to you and
have pointed out the continued numerous inaccuracies. your question  so what if the numbers are off ,
so what if the categories are off. whats the big deal??. I suggest you de risk you finances and make the
tough decisions necessary - pay the right amounts ( high) to get the work done properly or , you are , Im
afraid, certain to get an unhappy answer.. tom will be back from vacation. this week.
Date: Thu, Apr 28, 2016 at 5:16 PM
Subject: Valuation Discount
To: jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com>

I am attaching a draft response from Empire Valuation as to why it arrived at a valuation discount on the
low end. Let’s discuss the response and next steps. Thanks. Alan

Alan S. Halperin | Partner
Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP

1285 Avenue of the Americas | New York, NY 10019-6064

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023241
