Emerging market central banks have pioneered
investment tranches to generate greater returns
and developed markets are exploring their ability
to follow suit

In last year’s report we identified that emerging
market reserve managers were developing an
investment tranche, to diversify away from low-
yielding government bonds and generate better risk
adjusted returns. This year, low interest rates again
led EM central banks to increase the level of the
investment tranche and invest in riskier asset classes,
targeting higher returns over time to support future
reserves adequacy. Additionally, certain emerging
market central banks had recently relaxed fixed

or managed exchange rate regimes, allowing

for greater freedom to allocate reserves to the
investment tranche.

As central banks (including DM Low FME)
expand the size and risk asset exposure of the
investment tranche, they also are assessing how
to best manage risk, return and cost, particularly
where higher levels of reserves and depth of internal
resources support developing internal management
expertise. Central banks have a range of resources
available in making their assessments, including
case studies and performance data from those EM
central banks reaching the end of the first cycle of
risk assessments, with many respondents indicating
their willingness to share such information with
peers. While we note the long timeline for the first
generation of EM central banks to establish their
investment tranches (an average of 22 months across
our emerging market sample), the availability of peer
support and information sharing has the potential
to create a positive network effect supporting
future implementations.

Central banks acknowledge the need for external
support as they move out the risk spectrum to
corporate bonds and equities

Typically, the development of the investment tranche
starts with asset-backed securities (figure 32). The
majority of central banks are comfortable managing
investment grade government debt internally and
perceive high grade asset-backed securities as
comparable in terms of management requirements
and risk profile.

However, reserve managers are moving up the
risk curve, primarily seeking to increase allocations
to equities and corporate bonds (figure 33). Many
respondents acknowledged they do not yet have
the necessary internal governance process or risk
management capability to manage these investments
internally. Respondents also noted that while
reserves management peers were able to assist
them in planning the development of the investment
tranche, their support often lacked technical detail
on investment governance and asset management
infrastructure.

41

Fig 32. First investment tranche asset class (% citations)

Asset-backed Equities Corporate bonds Alternatives
securities

54
23
20
3
|

Sample comprises of central banks only.
Sample=30.

Fig 33. Investment tranche asset class future increase (% citations)

Equities Corporate bonds USagencyMBS Agencies,
Multilateral debt,
Supranational
debt

Bf

Sample comprises of central banks only.
Sample=30.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026721
