capabilities emerge from regular physical processses, which we can trace down to the
level of electrons, photons, quarks, and gluons. Evidently, brute matter can get pretty
smart.

Let me summarize the argument. From two strongly supported hypotheses, we’ve
drawn a straightforward conclusion:

e Human mind emerges from matter.

e Matter is what physics says it is.

e Therefore, the human mind emerges from physical processes we
understand and can reproduce artificially.

e Therefore, natural intelligence is a special case of artificial
intelligence.

Of course, our “astonishing corollary” could fail; the first two lines of this
argument are hypotheses. But their failure would have to bring in a foundation-shattering
discovery—a significant new phenomenon, with large-scale physical consequences,
which takes place in unremarkable, well-studied physical circumstances (1.e., the
materials, temperatures, and pressures inside human brains) yet which has somehow
managed for many decades to elude determined investigators armed with sophisticated
instruments. Such a discovery would be. . . astonishing.

ID. The Future of Intelligence

It is part of human nature to improve on human bodies and minds. Historically, clothing,
eyeglasses, and watches are examples of increasingly sophisticated augmentations that
enhance our toughness, perception, and awareness. They are major improvements to the
natural human endowment, whose familiarity should not blind us to their depth. Today
smartphones and the Internet are bringing the human drive toward augmentation into
realms more central to our identity as intelligent beings. They are giving us, in effect,
quick access to a vast collective awareness and a vast collective memory.

At the same time, autonomous artificial intelligences have become world
champions in a wide variety of “cerebral” games, such as chess and Go, and have taken
over many sophisticated pattern-recognition tasks, such as reconstructing what happened
during complex reactions at the Large Hadron Collider from a blizzard of emerging
particle tracks, to find new particles; or gathering clues from fuzzy X-ray, fMRI, and
other types of images, to diagnose medical problems.

Where is this drive toward self-enhancement and innovation taking us? While the
precise sequence of events and the timescale over which they’ll play out is impossible to
predict (or, at least, beyond me), some basic considerations suggest that eventually the
most powerful embodiments of mind will be quite different things from human brains as
we know them today.

Consider six factors whereby information-processing technology exceeds human
capabilities—vastly, qualitatively, or both:

e Speed: The orchestrated motion of electrons, which is the heart of modern
artificial information-processing, can be much faster than the processes of
diffusion and chemical change by which brains operate. Typical modern
computer clock rates approach 10 gigahertz, corresponding to 10 billion
operations per second. No single measure of speed applies to the bewildering
variety of brain processes, but one fundamental limitation is latency of action

58

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016278
