Ti v4 Expert Analysis

income and have similar tax deductions
(at least in amount) have generally been
better off from a tax standpoint filing as
However, that
assessment tilts in favor of marriage and

unmarried individuals.

filing a joint return if one partner earns
or deducts the greater portion of any oth-
erwise combined amounts.

COMMENT. Although much press was
given to “marriage penalty relief” when
the Bush-era tax cuts were permanently
extended by the American Taxpayer Relief
Act of 2012 (ATRA), such relief in fact
only related to equality within the stan-
dard deduction amount and the top por-
tion of the 15 percent income tax bracket.
Other “marriage penalties” continue to
exist within the tax law depending upon
circumstances, For example, the 33 per-
cent tax bracket for joint filers in 2013
starts at $223,050 taxable income, while
the 33 percent bracket for single taxpayers
starts at $183,250. If there were no mar-
riage penalty imposed on higher-income
individuals earning similar amounts, the
33 percent bracket for joint filers would
not start until reaching the $366,500
level, or double that set under the Internal
Revenue Code for single filers.
Married Filing Separately. \f same-sex
married couples post-Windsor want to keep
their finances (and liabilities) separate for the
purpose of filing separate returns, they will
generally—but not always—pay more federal
income tax. The rate brackets for “married
filing separately” are higher than “unmarried,
not surviving spouse or head of household.”

Innocent Spouse Status. Married taxpayers
who file joint returns are jointly and severally
responsible for the tax and any interest or pen-
alty due on the joint return. In some cases, a
spouse will be relieved of this shared liability for
tax owed on a joint tax return. Three types of
relief are available: general innocent spouse re-

lief; separate liability relief; and equitable relief.

IMPACT. Because of the Supreme
Courts decision, the three types of in-
nocent spouse relief are now presumably
available to same-sex married couples.

CCH Tax Briefing

Same-sex married partners cannot turn
a blind eye to any item that is listed on
a joint return. A decision to file joint
returns retroactively for prior tax years
as the result of the Supreme Court’ de-
cision, therefore, should include consid-
eration of the joint and several liability
that would be triggered. Separate return
status would eliminate the issue of joint
liability entirely. The IRS is expected to

issue guidance in this area.

Surviving Spouse Claims. A surviving
spouse computes tax using the same rate
brackets as married couples filing joint re-
turns. Rules for surviving spouse status for
same-sex married couples now presumably
follow the same rules as for opposite-sex
couples. If a taxpayer is a surviving spouse,
the year the spouse died is the last year for
which the taxpayer can file a joint return
with that spouse. A taxpayer can also qual-
ify as surviving spouse for two tax years fol-
lowing the year in which his or her spouse
dies if the taxpayer maintains a household
for certain dependents (a child, adopted
child, foster child, or stepchild), has not
remarried, and filed or could have filed a
joint return with the spouse for the year in

which his or her spouse died.

FILING STATUS, AGI FLOORS
AND THRESHOLD AMOUNTS

The amounts of income and deductions
reported on a return are used by the IRS
in determining whether certain thresh-
old levels and floors are reached. Those
amounts in turn determine access to a va-
riety of tax benefits. Some of these floors
or threshold amounts are applied to all
filing statuses uniformly; others vary de-
pending upon filing status.

IMPACT. Depending upon adjusted gross
income (AGI) and other levels reported
on a return, combining the income and
deductions of each same-sex partner un-
der a single joint return may or may not
work to the advantage of the couple as a
unit, in contrast to filing as unmarried or

married filing separately.

Floors. Tax benefits dependent upon floor
levels of adjusted gross income (AGI) or
modified AGI (MAGI) set forth under the
Internal Revenue Code include the following
itemized deduction categories, among others:

m Medical expense deduction floor (10
percent AGI (temporarily at 7.5 percent
for taxpayers over age 65));

m Casualty loss deduction floor (10 per-
cent AGI); and

m Miscellaneous items deduction floor (2

percent AGI).

COMMENT. J» the case of married in-
dividuals who file separate returns, if one
spouse itemizes deductions on his or her
return, the other spouse must also do so ir-
respective of whether his or her standard
deduction would be larger. This rule does
not apply to unmarried couples who file

separate returns.

Ceilings. Use of excess capital losses to off-
set ordinary income is generally limited to
$3,000 per return, whether on a joint return
or an unmarried single return. Taxpayers
who are married filing separately, however,
are allowed only a $1,500 maximum capital
loss deduction; the balance in all cases may
be carried forward into the next tax year.

Thresholds. For some taxpayers, AGI] above
designated thresholds reduces certain tax
benefits. A reduction in itemized deduc-
tions and a reduction in personal exemp-
tions are the most common among higher-
income individuals. For example:

us ltemized deductions otherwise allowed must
be reduced by the lesser of (1) three percent of
AGI that exceeded a threshold amount (see
chart, below) adjusted annually for inflation,
or (2) 80 percent of the total amount of oth-
erwise allowable itemized deductions. No re-
duction is required in the case of deductions
for medical expenses, investment interest,
and casualty, theft or wagering losses.

a Personal exemptions, likewise, are required
to be reduced where AGI exceeds a specified
threshold amount: by two percent for each
$2,500 (or fraction thereof) by which AGI

©2013 CCH Incorporated. All Rights Reserved.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029308
