4.2.12
WC: 191694

In Stanley [the] Court held that in certain circumstances possession of a moving picture
film is constitutionally protected even though by contemporary standards the film is
obscene. We do not consider this irrelevant.

The Court then went on to consider the state’s argument that an obscene film, even viewed in a
restricted theater, can induce the viewer to commit rape.

The question is, how far does Stanley go. Is the decision to be limited to the precise
problem of “mere private possession of obscene material,” is it the high water mark of a
past flood, or is it the precursor of a new one? Defendant points to the fact that the court
in Stanley stated that Roth v. United States, was “not impaired by today’s holding, and in
the course of its opinion recognized the state’s interest there upheld in prohibiting public
distribution of obscenity. Yet, with due respect, Roth cannot remain intact, for the Court
there had announced that “obscenity is not within the area of constitutionally protected
speech or press,” whereas it held that Stanley’s interest was protected by the First
Amendment, and that the fact that the film was “devoid of any ideological content” was
irrelevant.

Of necessity the Stanley court held that obscenity presented no clear and present danger to
the adult viewer, or to the public as a result of his exposure. Obscenity may be offensive;
it is not per se harmful. Had the Court considered obscenity harmful as such, the fact that
the defendant possessed it privately in his home would have been of no consequence.

The Court then rendered its conclusion:

We confess that no oracle speaks to Karalexis unambiguously. Nonetheless, we think it
probable that Roth remains intact only with respect to public distribution in the full sense,
and that restricted distribution, adequately controlled, is no longer to be condemned.

If a rich Stanley can view a film, or read a book, in his home, a poorer Stanley should be
free to visit a protected theater or library. We see no reason for saying he must go alone.

It was the first time in history that a court—any court—had ruled that the government had no
power to ban or prosecute an “obscene” film that was shown to the public in a theater. I had
achieved a total victory not only for my client, but for my novel approach to offensiveness under
the First Amendment. It was a heck of a way to begin my career as a lawyer. The victory would,
however, be short lived, at least in theory, if not in practice.

Not surprisingly, the District Attorney appealed our victory to the Supreme Court, which
accepted the case. I was asked to argue for Grove Press. And so, at the age of 31, I argued my
first case before the High Court.

102

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017189
