numbers of Israelis, and ultimately the government, had ensured a truly
independent probe would now go ahead.

But other ways in which the war had gone wrong were already glaringly
apparent. Some were operational. It is true we ended up overcoming Palestinian
and Syrian resistance. Given the numerical balance of forces, that was a
foregone conclusion. But with all the attention paid to the political aims of the
invasion, we’d never sufficiently planned for operating against a wholly
different kind of enemy than in our previous wars, and on a wholly different
kind of terrain. Huge columns of Israeli armor had found themselves stuck on
the winding roads of central Lebanon, running low on gasoline, vulnerable to
relatively small ambush squads. In some instances, a dozen Palestinian fighters
or Syrian commandos had halted the best-armed, best-trained, tank forces in the
Middle East for hours on end. Overall, the pattern of past wars had been broken.
Even in 1973, once the surprise attacks had been turned back, Israeli forces had
advanced, attacked and broken enemy resistance. That hadn’t happened here.

There was a deeper problem as well. At the start of the conflict, Begin had
declared, boastfully almost, that this was Israel’s first “war of choice.” That
wasn’t true. Both 1956 and 1967 were wars of choice. Yet those preemptive
attacks, especially in the Six-Day War, were in response to a sense of strategic
threat that was commonly understood by almost all Israelis. There was a sense
not just of consensus, but national unity. This war was different. It had been
launched in pursuit of a specific political vision: a marriage of Begin’s political
credo and Arik’s determination to use overwhelming force to bulldoze a new
political reality in Lebanon.

The findings of the inquiry commission were published in February 1983.
They were all the more powerful for the forensic language used. The inquiry did
concede Begin’s point: it was Gemayel’s men who had actually done the
killing. But it said that the Israel1 commanders’ decision to allow the
Phalangists into the refugee camps “was taken without consideration of the
danger — which the makers and executors of the decision were obligated to
foresee as probable — that the Phalangists would commit massacres.” The
commission added that “when the reports began to arrive about the actions of
the Phalangists in the camps, no proper heed was taken. The correct conclusions
were not drawn. No energetic and immediate action was taken to restrain the
Phalangists and put a stop to their actions.”

Arik bore personal responsibility for this, the report said. So did Raful, and
the head of military intelligence, Yehoshua Saguy. The commission

208
HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011679
