CONFIDENTIAL SUBMISSION TO 
THE OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
RE J. EPSTEIN 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012135 
KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP 
AND AFFILIATED PARTNERSHIPS 
Kenneth W. Starr 
To Call Writer Directly: Facsimile: 
777 South Figueroa Street 
Los Angeles, California 90017 
www.kirkland.com 
June 19, 2008 
John Roth, Esq. 
Principal Associate Deputy Attorney General 
Office of the Deputy Attorney General 
United States Department of Justice 
950 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Room 4115 
Washington, D.C. 20530 
Dear Mr. Roth: 
Dir. Fax: 
I again want to thank you for this opportunity to explain why we believe that a federal 
prosecution of Jeffrey Epstein is unwarranted. I appreciate your having informed us that you 
already have our May 19 and May 27 communications to the Deputy Attorney General, as well 
as our prior written submissions to CEOS and to the Southern District of Florida. 
In light of the significant volume of our prior submissions and to facilitate your review, 
we have drafted four supplemental submissions that will provide a roadmap for your 
investigation of this matter. Given the bulk of these documents and their appended supporting 
attachments, you will receive this packet by messenger tomorrow. A brief description of each of 
the four submissions follows. First, I have included a succinct summary of the facts, law and 
policy issues at hand. This document sets forth a basic overview of the issues and summarizes 
our principal contentions as to why federal prosecution of this matter is neither appropriate nor 
warranted. 
The three other submissions include: a summary of the irregularities and misconduct that 
occurred during the federal investigation; a letter from former CEOS attorney Stephanie Thacker 
that responds to CEOS's assessment of its limited review of Mr. Epstein's case; and a point-by-
point rebuttal to First Assistant United States Attorney Jeffrey Sloman's recent letter which we 
believe contains factual inaccuracies typical of our correspondence from the United States 
Attorney's Office in Miami (the USAO). Also, for your reference, the package you receive 
tomorrow will contain a binder including all documentation to which we refer in our 
submissions. Finally, we will be providing a detailed checklist of each submission or substantive 
communication to the USAO. Our intention is that you have copies of each such document to 
enhance your review. If there are any that you have not received from the USA() or CEOS, 
please advise and we will fedex them to you without delay. 
Chicago Hong Kong London Munich New York San Francisco Washington, D.C. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012136 
KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP 
John Roth, Esq. 
June 19, 2008 
Page 2 
As you are likely aware, the Department's prior review of this matter was incomplete 
and, by its own admission, not de novo. See Tab 38, May 15, 2008 Letter from A. Oosterbaan. 
Without considering the Non Prosecution Agreement that left this matter to be resolved in the 
State or any of the misconduct, CEOS reviewers, tasked with reviewing some of their own 
previously expressed opinions, assessed only whether the United States Attorney would abuse 
[his] discretion if he pursued this case. While we appreciate CEOS 's willingness to examine 
these limited issues, its conclusion that a prosecution would not be an abuse of discretion rings 
particularly hollow in light of CEOS's admirably candid concessions that we have raised 
compelling objections and that a prosecution on these facts would require novel applications 
of federal law. Indeed, even a brief review of CEOS's own mission statement reveals how 
inapposite a federal prosecution is to the facts in this case. 
Importantly, we note that the CEOS review was conducted prior to the Supreme Court's 
very recent decisions in Santos and Cuellar, which we believe—illuminating as they do the 
Court's interpretive methodology when it comes to federal criminal law—powerfully 
demonstrate the substantive vulnerability of the USAO's unprecedented employment of three 
federal laws. That Office's interpretation would never pass muster under the Supreme Court's 
recent pronouncements and should not be countenanced. That is all the more true under the 
circumstances where the duly appointed U.S. Attorney opined that, in effect, the unitary 
Executive Branch was driving this prosecution. We now know that is not so. 
What I respectfully request, and what I hope you will provide, is a truly de novo 
review—that is, an independent assessment of whether federal prosecution of Mr. Epstein is both 
necessary and warranted in view of the legal and evidentiary hurdles that have been identified, 
the existence of a State felony plea and sentence that have been advocated by the State Attorney 
for Palm Beach County, and the many issues of prosecutorial misconduct and overzealousness 
that have permeated the investigation. I also request that you provide us with the opportunity 
during your review to meet with you in person to answer any questions you may have and to 
elucidate some of the issues in our submission. 
We believe that an independent review will confirm our strong belief that federal 
prosecutors would be required to stretch the plain meaning of each element of the enumerated 
statutes, and then to combine these distorted elements in a tenuous chain, in order to convict Mr. 
Epstein. Indeed, just this week (and after two years of federal involvement in this matter), 
Assistant United States Attorney Villafana re-initiated the federal grand jury investigation—in 
direct contravention of the parties' Non Prosecution Agreement—and issued yet another 
subpoena seeking evidence in this case. See Tab 19, Subpoena to In the 
subpoena, AUSA Villafana directs to appear on July 1, 2008 to give testimony 
and produce documents to FGJ 07-103 West Palm Beach. The attachment to the subpoena seeks 
documents such as photographs, emails, telephone billing information, and contact information 
that relate to Mr. Epstein as well as specific other people who received protection from federal 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012137 
KIRKLAND &ELLIS LLP 
John Roth, Esq. 
June 19, 2008 
Page 3 
prosecution as a result of Mr. Epstein's having entered into the September 24, 2007 Non 
Prosecution Agreement with the USAO. 
Notably, the Non Prosecution Agreement contains the following agreed condition: 
Further, upon execution of this agreement and a plea agreement with the State Attorney's Office, 
the federal Grand Jury investigation will be suspended, and all pending federal Grand Jury 
subpoenas will be held in abeyance unless and until the defendant violates any term of this 
agreement. The defendant likewise agrees to withdraw his pending motion to intervene and to 
quash certain grand jury subpoenas. 
See Tab 21, September 24, 2007 Non Prosecution Agreement. It also guarantees that persons 
identified in the Grand Jury subpoena such as , and Leslie Groff 
and others will not be prosecuted. The new Grand Jury subpoena clearly violates the Non-
Prosecution Agreement. Although Mr. Epstein has exercised his rights to appeal to the 
Department of Justice with the full consent and knowledge of the USAO, he has not breached the 
Agreement. The re-commencing of the Grand Jury is in violation of the Agreement. 
But further, the new investigation, which features a wide-ranging, fishing-expedition type 
to search in New York does nothing to satisfy the very essential elements of federal statutes that 
are lacking despite the intensity of an over two-year investigation in the Palm Beach area. 
Absent evidence of Internet luring, inducements while using the phone, travel for the purpose, 
fraud or coercion, the subject of the New York investigation is as lacking in the essential basis 
for converting a state case into a federal case as is the remainder of the Florida investigation. 
The reaching out to New York to fill the void emanating from the failures of the Florida 
investigation compellingly demonstrates the misuse of federal resources in an overzealous, over-
personalized, selective and extraordinary attempt to expand federal law to where it is has never 
gone. This last-ditch attempt by Ms. Villafana reinforces our belief that the USAO does not have 
facts that, without distortion, would justify a prosecution of Mr. Epstein. 
In view of the prosecution's often-verbalized desire to punish Mr. Epstein, we believe 
that the prosecution summary suffers from critical inaccuracies and aggregates the expected 
testimony of witnesses so as to reach a conclusion of guilt. Our contention is reinforced by the 
fact that key prosecution witnesses have provided evidence and testimony that directly 
undermines the prosecution's misleading and inaccurate summary of its case. Indeed, we now 
have received statements from three of the principal accusers- __________________1(through a state 
criminal deposition (through a• federal FBI-USAO sworn and transcribed 
interview), and (through a defense—generated sworn transcribed interview). 
Each of these witnesses categorically denies each essential element that the prosecution will have 
to prove in order to convert this quintessential state-law case into a federal matter. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012138 
KIRKLAND & ELLIS LL? 
John Roth, Esq. 
June 19, 2008 
Page 4 
It thus is especially troubling that the USAO has not provided us with the transcript of 
Ms. federal interview, nor the substance of the interviews with Ms. or Ms. 
nor any information generated by interviews with any of the approximately 40 alleged 
witnesses that the prosecution claims it has identified. Because the information provided by 
these women goes directly to the question of Mr. Epstein's guilt or innocence, it is classic Brady 
information. We understand that the U.S. Attorney might not want to disclose impeachment 
information about their witnesses prior to a charge or during plea negotiations. But we firmly 
believe that when the Government possesses information that goes directly to a target's factual 
guilt or innocence, the target should be informed about such heartland exculpatory evidence. 
Most importantly, aside from whether the Department believes Brady obligates 
disclosure to a target of a federal investigation prior to the target's formal accusation, no such 
limit should apply to a Department review. Accordingly, we request that you go beneath the face 
of any summary provided to you by the USAO and instead review the actual witness transcripts 
and FBI 302s, which are essential for you to be able to make a truly independent assessment of 
the strength and wisdom of any federal prosecution. 
After careful consideration of the record, and as much as it pains me to say this, I simply 
do not believe federal prosecutors would have been involved at all in this matter if not for Mr. 
Epstein's personal wealth and publicly-reported ties to former President Bill Clinton. A simple 
Internet search on Mr. Epstein reveals myriad articles and news stories about the former 
President's personal relationship with Mr. Epstein, including multi-page stories in New York 
Magazine and Vanity Fair. Mr. Epstein, in fact, only came to the public's attention a few years 
ago when he and the former President traveled for a week to Africa (using Mr. Epstein's 
airplane)—a trip that received a great deal of press coverage. I cannot imagine that the USAO 
ever would have contemplated a prosecution in this case if Mr. Epstein lacked this type of 
notoriety. 
That belief has been reinforced by the significant prosecutorial impropriety and 
misconduct throughout the course of this matter. While we describe the majority of these 
irregularities in another submission, two instances are particularly troubling. First, the USAO 
authorized the public disclosure of specific details of the open investigation to the New York 
Times—including descriptions of the prosecution's theory of the case and specific terms of a plea 
negotiation between the parties. Second, AUSA Villafana attempted to enrich friends and close 
acquaintances by bringing them business in connection with this matter. Specifically, she 
attempted to appoint a close personal friend of her live-in boyfriend to serve as an attorney-
representative for the women involved in this case. 
It also bears mentioning that actions taken by FAUSA Sloman present an appearance of 
impropriety that gives us cause for concern. Mr. Sloman's former law partner is currently 
pursuing a handful of $50-million lawsuits against Mr. Epstein by some of the masseuses. 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012139 
KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP 
John Roth, Esq. 
June 19, 2008 
Page 5 
Finally, as you know, Mr. Epstein and the USA° entered into an agreement that deferred 
prosecution to the State. In this regard, I simply note that the manner in which this agreement 
was negotiated contrasts sharply with Mr. Sloman's current representation that [T]he SDFL 
indicated a willingness to defer to the State the length of incarceration . . .  See Tab 1, May 19, 
2008 Letter from J. Sloman, p. 2. This statement is simply not true. Contrary to Mr. Sloman's 
assertion, federal prosecutors refused to accept what the State believed to be appropriate as to 
Mr. Epstein's sentence and instead, insisted that Mr. Epstein be required serve a two-year term of 
imprisonment (which they later decreased to 18 months plus one year of house arrest). Federal 
prosecutors have not only involved themselves in what is quintessentially a state matter, but their 
actions have caused a critical appearance of impropriety that raises doubt as to their motivation 
for investigating and prosecuting Mr. Epstein in the first place. 
At bottom, we appreciate your willingness to review this matter with a fresh—and 
independent—set of eyes. To facilitate your review, I once again request the opportunity to 
make an oral presentation to supplement our written submissions, and we will promptly respond 
to any inquiries you may have. 
cc: Deputy Attorney General Mark Filip 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012140 
MAIN SUBMISSION 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012141 
KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP 
SUBMISSION TO THE OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL  
IN THE MATTER OF JEFFREY E. EPSTEIN  
Jeffrey Epstein, a successful businessman and noted philanthropist with no prior criminal 
record, has been investigated for potential violations of 18 U.S.C. §§ 1591, 2422(b) and 2423(b). 
Since the limited review conducted by CEOS, two Supreme Court decisions—one authored by 
Justice Scalia and the other by Justice Thomas—have revitalized the bedrock principles that 
federal criminal statutes must be narrowly construed, that they may not be stretched to federalize 
conduct not clearly covered by their prohibitions, and that whenever there are two plausible 
constructions of a criminal statute, the narrower construction (hich safeguards liberty) rather than 
the broader construction (which expands the federal prosecutor's arsenal) controls under the 
venerable rule of lenity. 
Mr. Epstein's conduct—including his misconduct—falls within the heartland of historic 
state police and prosecutorial powers. Absent a significant federal nexus, matters involving 
prostitution have always been treated as state-law crimes even when they involve minors. Mr. 
Epstein's conduct lacks any of the hallmarks that would convert this quintessential state crime 
into a federal one under any of the statutes prosecutors are considering. 
Mr. Epstein lived in Palm Beach, and his interstate travel was merely to go home. Any 
sexual conduct that occurred after he arrived was incidental to the purposes for his travel. Even 
CEOS admitted that applying § 2423(b) to a citizen traveling home would be novel. In fact, it 
would be both unprecedented and in conflict with Supreme Court cases that have withstood the 
test of time for over 60 years. 
Moreover, Mr. Epstein did not use the internet (either via email or chatrooms) to 
communicate with any of the witnesses in this investigation. Indeed, he did not use any other 
facility of interstate commerce, including the phone, to knowingly persuade, entice, or induce 
anyone to visit his home—the local locus of all the incidents under investigation—much less 
to persuade, entice, or induce a known minor to engage in prohibited sex acts, as § 2422(b) 
requires. Nor did anyone on his behalf persuade or induce or entice or coerce anyone as 
these words are ordinarily understood and as the new Supreme Court decisions mandate they be 
applied: narrowly, without stretching ordinary usage to conform to a prosecutor's case-specific 
need for a broad (and in this case unprecedented) application. In addition, as will be shown 
below, § 2422(b) requires that the object of the communication be a state law offense that can 
be charged. Yet because the state of Florida's statute of limitations is one year for the first 
prostitution offense and three years for other targeted offenses, and because all or virtually all of 
the offense conduct at issue in the federal investigation occurred prior to June 20, 2005, those 
acts can not be charged by the State, and thus cannot meet this essential element of federal law. 
Finally, Mr. Epstein neither coerced, nor enslaved, nor trafficked, nor derived any profit 
from his sexual conduct. He was an ordinary John, not a pimp. But § 1591 is directed only 
against those who engage in force or fraud or coercion or who are in the business of commercial 
1 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012142 
KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP 
sexual trafficking. The statute has never been applied to a John, and only a highly and 
impermissibly selective prosecution could stretch § 1591 to reach conduct like that at issue in 
this case. 
In short, without novel interpretive expansions—a description used by CEOS itself—it 
cannot be shown that Mr. Epstein violated any of the three federal statutes identified by 
prosecutors. As the Supreme Court's recent decisions in Santos and Cuellar make clear, federal 
law may not be stretched in that manner, and the current federal investigation relies, as its 
foundation, on impermissibly elastic stretches of each statute beyond any reported precedent; 
beyond the essential elements of each statute; well outside the ordinary construction of each 
statute's limitations; and on a selective, extraordinary, and unwarranted expansion of federal law 
to cover conduct that has always been exclusively within the core of state powers. 
At this point in time, the need for Departmental oversight is critical. We appreciate this 
opportunity to submit our assessment of the key facts in this case and review of the pertinent 
federal statutes, and respectfully request that the Office of the Deputy Attorney General end 
federal involvement in this matter so that the State of Florida may resolve this case appropriately. 
Summary of the Facts 
Mr. Epstein has maintained a home in Palm Beach, Florida for the past 20 years. While 
there, he routinely conducted business, received medical attention, socialized with friends, and 
helped care for his elderly mother. Mr. Epstein also had various women visit his home to 
perform massages. He did not personally schedule the massage appointments or communicate 
with the women over the phone or the Internet. Rather, Mr. Epstein's personal assistants 
scheduled many types of appointments, personal trainers, chiropractors, business meetings and 
massages. The phone message pad taken from his house and in the possession of the 
government confirmed that in many cases, the women themselves contacted Mr. Epstein's 
assistants to inquire about his availability—rather than vice versa. 
The majority of the massages were just that and nothing else. Mr. Epstein often would be 
on the telephone conducting business while he received his massage. At times, the masseuses 
would be topless, and some sexual activity might occur—primarily self-masturbation on the part 
of Mr. Epstein. On other occasions, no sexual activity would occur at all. There was no pattern 
or practice regarding which masseuse would be scheduled on a particular day—if one would be 
scheduled at all—or whether any sexual activity might occur. Indeed, Mr. Epstein almost never 
knew which masseuse his assistants had scheduled until she arrived. See Tab 3, Toll 
Records. 
Mr. Epstein specifically requested that each masseuse be at least 18 years old. The vast 
majority of the masseuses were in fact in their twenties, many accompanied to Mr. Epstein's 
home by friends or even other family members. Furthermore, most of the women who have 
testified that they were actually under 18 have specifically admitted to systematically lying to 
Mr. Epstein about their age. See Tab 4 MIME Tr. at 38-39; Tab 5, =Err. at 16; Tab 6, 
2 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012143 
KIRKLAND &ELLIS LLP 
at 6, 8, 22, 45; Tab 7, Jr.M 13; Tab 8 Tr. at 8; Tab 9, Tr. at 5; and 
Tab 10, Tr. at 14-15 (excerpts from these transcripts are included below). Furthermore, 
the women who visited Mr. Epstein's home all visited voluntarily and many willingly returned 
several times. 
The State Attorney's Office (the SAO) has vast experience prosecuting sex crimes and 
conducted an exhaustive, 15-month investigation of Mr. Epstein. A Grand Jury has concluded 
that Mr. Epstein was merely a local John, guilty of soliciting prostitution in violation of state 
law. Notably, Florida law distinguishes soliciting from procuring and compelling prostitution if 
minors are involved. Indeed, soliciting is a misdemeanor except for the commission of a third 
subsequent offense, turning it into a felony. The SAO, therefore, sought and obtained an 
indictment charging Mr. Epstein with felony solicitation of prostitution. Mr. Epstein is prepared 
to plead guilty and accept a sentence for that offense—a sentence that, notably, is far more 
severe than that meted out to other Johns convicted of violating Florida's solicitation laws for 
cases in which sexual activity was alleged. 
Though CEOS points out its admirable goal of protecting children, a moniker that 
engenders high emotions, the conduct alleged here involves women over 16, which is the age of 
consent in 38 states and supplies the effective federal age of consent. The young women were by 
no means the target of high-school trolling; they were individuals who, with friends, visited Mr. 
Epstein's house—a home full of friends and staff. The civil complaints filed against Mr. Epstein 
reiterate the fact that the individuals who visited Mr. Epstein would visit with their friends. And 
Mr. Epstein never spoke to or had any contact with these women before they arrived at his 
house. And again, the State is handling this matter appropriately. 
We respectfully submit that that should be the beginning and the end of this matter. As 
you know, the Department's Petite Policy precludes successive federal prosecutions after a State 
has acted: [A] state judgment of conviction, plea agreement [here held in abeyance solely as a 
result of the federal investigation], or acquittal on the merits shall be a bar to any subsequent 
federal prosecution for the same act or acts. U.S.A.M. § 9-2.031A (emphasis added). 
Consistent with that principle, and of particular relevance to this case, the Department itself just 
recently observed the following: 
[P]rostitution-related offenses have historically been prosecuted at the state or 
local level. This allocation between state and Federal enforcement authority does 
not imply that these crimes are less serious, but rather reflects important structural 
allocations of responsibility between state and Federal governments.... [T]he 
Department is not aware of any reasons why state and local authorities are not 
currently able to pursue prostitution-related crimes such that Federal jurisdiction 
is necessary. 
See Tab 11, November 9, 2007 Letter from Justice Department Principal Deputy Assistant 
Attorney General Brian Benczkowski to the House Committee on the Judiciary, p. 8-9. 
3 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012144 
KIRKLAND &ELLIS LLP 
Summary of the Law 
We have reviewed every reported case under 18 U.S.C. §§ 1591, 2422(b), and 2423(b), 
and cannot find a single one that resulted in a conviction on facts akin to the ones here. In some 
respects, it is not surprising that no precedent supports federal prosecution of a man who engaged 
in consensual conduct, in his home, that amounts to solicitation under State law. After all, 
prostitution, even when the allegations involve minors, is fundamentally a State concern, United 
States v. Evans, 476 F.3d 1176, n.1 (11th Cir. 2007) (noting that federal law does not 
criminalize all acts of prostitution (a vice traditionally governed by state regulation)), and there 
is no evidence that Palm Beach County authorities and Florida prosecutors cannot effectively 
prosecute and punish the conduct. See also Batchelder v. Gonzalez, No. 4:07-cv-00330-SPM-
AK, 2007 WL 5022105 (N.D. Fla. Oct. 19, 2007). In fact, the opposite is true—the state-elected 
officials, cognizant of the local mores of the community, have a lauded history of just such 
prosecutions. 
In any event, and as set forth below, none of the federal statutes in this case remotely 
supports a prosecution on the facts of this case without each and every element being stretched in 
a novel way to encompass the behavior at issue. We begin with first principles. Courts in this 
country have traditionally exercised restraint in assessing the reach of federal criminal statutes, 
both out of deference to the prerogatives of Congress, Dowling v. United States, 473 U.S. 207 
(1985), and out of concern that 'a fair warning should be given to the world in language that the 
common world will understand, of what the law intends to do if a certain line is passed.' Arthur 
Andersen LLP v. United States, 544 U.S. 696, 703 (2005) (quoting McBoyle v. United States, 283 
U.S. 25, 27 (1931)) (citation omitted). 
Two recent Supreme Court decisions dramatically underscore these principles and help to 
highlight why federal prosecution in this case would be improper as a matter of both law and 
policy. See United States v. Santos, No. 06-1005 (June 2, 2008); Cuellar v. United States, No. 
06-1456 (June 2, 2008). Though they both address the interpretation and application of the 
federal money laundering statute, 18 U.S.C. § 1956, the principles they set forth are equally 
applicable here. In Santos, the Court held that the statutory term proceeds means profits 
rather than receipts, and thus gave the statute a significantly narrower interpretation than what 
the government had urged. In his plurality opinion, Justice Scalia emphasized that where a 
statutory term in a criminal statute could support either a narrow or broad application, the narrow 
interpretation must be adopted because [w]e interpret ambiguous criminal statutes in favor of 
defendants, not prosecutors. Slip op. at 12. As his opinion explained, the rule of lenity not 
only vindicates the fundamental principle that no citizen should be held accountable for a 
violation of a statute whose commands are uncertain, or subjected to punishment that is not 
clearly proscribed. It also places the weight of inertia upon the party that can best induce 
4 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012145 
KIRKLAND &ELLIS LLP 
Congress to speak more clearly and keeps courts from making criminal law in Congress's stead. 
Slip op. at 6.1 
In Cuellar, the Court examined the link between the money-laundering statute's mens rea 
requirement and the underlying elements of the offense. After a careful textual analysis of the 
statute and its structure, the Court ruled that the defendant's conviction could be sustained only if 
he knew that the transportation of funds to Mexico was designed to conceal their nature, 
location, source, ownership or control—not merely that the defendant knew that the funds had 
been hidden during their transportation to Mexico. Slip op. at 10-17. 
Both decisions relied on the ordinary meaning of the statutory terms Congress chose. 
And both rejected attempts to broaden those words to cover conduct not clearly targeted by 
Congress. Taken together, these decisions reject the notion that prosecutors can take language 
from a narrowly drawn federal statute—especially one that itself federalizes the prosecution of 
conduct traditionally within the heartland of State police powers—and convert it into a license to 
reach additional conduct by ignoring, rewriting or expansively interpreting the law. Both cases 
additionally rejected the notion that statutes should be broadly construed in order to facilitate 
prosecutions or to in anyway diminish the burden on prosecutors to prove each essential element 
of a federal charge in conformity with Congress's determinations as to what is within the federal 
criminal law and what is not. The conflict between the Santos and Cuellar decisions and 
CEOS 's grant of effectively unlimited discretionary authority to the USA0 to take federal law to 
novel places where they have never reached before could not be starker. 
These lessons have no less force in the context of Executive Branch decision-making 
than they do in the context of Judicial interpretation. As you are aware, when federal prosecutors 
exercise their discretion, they bear an independent constitutional obligation to faithfully interpret 
the law as written—not to broaden its scope beyond the limits endorsed by both Congress and 
the President. There is no support for CEOS's view that the courts or a jury should ultimately 
decide whether a novel construction of the law is correct. Instead, the Executive Branch itself 
has a non-delegable obligation not to exceed its authority; the power of other branches to check 
or remedy such usurpation does not legitimize executive action that exceeds its bounds. See Tab 
12, November 2, 1994 Memorandum from Assistant Attorney General Walter Dellinger to the 
Hon. Abner J. Mikva, Counsel To The President, on Presidential Authority To Decline To 
Execute Unconstitutional Statutes, available at http://www.usdoj.gov/olc/nonexcut.htm. 
In this case, the text, structure, and history of the relevant federal statutes unambiguously 
indicate that these statutes were designed to address problems of a national and international 
Justice Stevens, in his concurring opinion, also acknowledged the rule of lenity, calling the plurality opinion's 
discussion of that rule surely persuasive. United States v. Santos, No. 06-1005, slip op. at 5 (June 2, 2008) 
(Stevens, J., concurring). 
5 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012146 
KIRKLAND &ELLIS LLP 
scope—not the local conduct that is alleged here—and each of these statutes requires proof of 
the defendant's actual knowledge that simply is not present in this case. Any attempt to stretch 
the language of these statutes to cover this case would be a misuse of the law and contrary to 
express legislative intent. In short, the elements under each federal statute-18 U.S.C. §§ 1591, 
2422(b) and 2423(b)—are not satisfied here. 
1. 18 U.S.C. § 2422(b)  
18 U.S.C. § 2422(b) requires the government to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the 
defendant engaged in communications over an interstate facility (e.g., the Internet or phone) with 
four concurrent intentions: (1) to knowingly (2) persuade, induce, entice or coerce, or attempt to 
persuade, induce, entice, or coerce (3) a minor (4) to engage in prostitution or criminal sexual 
activity for which the person can be charged. Mr. Epstein's conduct does not satisfy the 
elements of § 2422(b). Each element must be individually stretched, and then conflated in a 
tenuous chain to encompass the alleged conduct with any individual woman. 
As the statute makes clear, the essence of this crime is the communication itself—not the 
resulting act. The Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, in Murrell, underscores the point: 
The defendant in Bailey contended that attempt under § 2422(b) 'requires the 
specific intent to commit illegal sexual acts rather than just the intent to persuade 
or solicit the minor victim to commit sexual acts.' Id. at 638. In response, the 
court held `[w]hile it may be rare for there to be a separation between the intent to 
persuade and the follow-up intent to perform the act after persuasion, they are two 
clearly separate and different intents and the Congress has made a clear choice to 
criminalize persuasion and the attempt to persuade, not the performance of the 
sexual acts themselves. Hence, a conviction under the statute only requires a 
finding that the defendant had an intent to persuade or to attempt to persuade.' 
United States v. Murrell 368 F.3d 1283, 1287 (11th Cir. 2004) (citing United States v. Bailey, 
228 F.3d 637, 638-39 (6th Cir.2000)). Thus, the targeted criminal conduct must occur through 
the interstate facility, not thereafter, and the scienter element must be present at the time of the 
call or Internet contact. 
In this case, however, Mr. Epstein did not use an interstate facility to communicate any 
illegal intention in this case; the phone calls were made by his assistants in the course of setting 
up many other appointments. Neither a conspiracy charge nor a charge of aiding and abetting 
can fulfill the mens rea requirement here. Indeed, neither Mr. Epstein nor his assistants knew 
whether sexual activity would necessarily result from a scheduled massage. And certainly, no 
such activity was ever discussed on the phone by either Mr. Epstein or his assistants. Instead, as 
the record in this case makes clear, many appointments resulted in no illegal sexual activity, and 
often, as confirmed by the masseuses' own testimony, several individuals who were contacted by 
phone visited Mr. Epstein's house and did not perform a massage at all. Where sexual activity 
6 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012147 
KIRKLAND &ELLIS LLP 
did result, it was mainly self-pleasuring masturbation and not necessarily illegal, but spontaneous 
and resulted from face-to-face conversations during the massage. Thus, the fact that Mr. Epstein 
later may have persuaded any particular masseuse to engage in unlawful activity during the 
massage does not work retroactively to render the earlier scheduling phone call an offense under 
§ 2422(b). Nor is there any evidence that women who returned to Mr. Epstein's home time and 
again were somehow coerced or induced over a facility of interstate commerce to do so. 
The first essential element of § 2422(b) that [w]hoever, using the mail or any facility or 
means of interstate or foreign commerce, by its plain language, requires that the 
communication, which is the essence of the crime and its actus reus, take place during the use of 
the facility of interstate commerce (in this case, unlike the vast majority of Internet chat room 
sting operations, a telephone). The statute is not ambiguous. It requires that the criminal 
conduct occur while the defendant is using (i.e. engaged in the communication), not thereafter. 
Given the utter lack of direct evidence against Mr. Epstein, prosecutors have signaled that 
they intend to offer a purely circumstantial case if this matter proceeds to trial—essentially 
arguing that routine and habit evidence could substitute for actual proof that an interstate 
facility was used to solicit sex from minors. Thus, despite the fact that the calls themselves were 
not made by Mr. Epstein and did not contain the necessary explicit communication to knowingly 
induce minors to provide sexual favors for money, prosecutors are seeking to turn the phrase are 
you available—the same phrase used with friends, chiropractors, and trainers—into a ten-year 
mandatory prison sentence. In any case, the prosecution's attenuated argument regarding 
routine and habit will also not fit the facts of this case. The witness testimony at issue makes 
clear that there was no clear routine or habit with respect to the interactions at issue. And in 
those unpredictable instances where sexual contact resulted, it was a product of what occurred 
after the benign phone communication, not during the call itself. 
The prosecution's theory of liability—that a call to a person merely to schedule a visit to 
the defendant's residence followed by a decision made at the residence to engage in prohibited 
sexual activity is sufficient—cannot survive either a plain language test or the rule of lenity as 
they have been authoritatively construed in the recent Santos and Cuellar cases. The statute 
cannot be read otherwise. As the Cuellar decision makes clear, a proper interpretation of a 
federal criminal statute is guided by the words of the operative statutory provision, not by 
outside objectives, such as those facilitating successful prosecution. See Cuellar, supra, Slip op. 
at 7. As Justice Alito stated in his concurring opinion, the government must prove not just the 
effect of the secretive transportation, but also that petitioner knew that achieving one of these 
effects was a design (i.e. purpose) of the transportation of currency. Cuellar v. United States, 
supra, 553 US., Slip op. At 1 (Auto, J. concurring). Similarly, it is not enough that one effect of 
a communication scheduling a visit between Mr. Epstein and a minor was that there might be 
subsequent face-to-face inducement. Instead, the statute, as drafted, defines the crime as the 
communication and demands that far more be proven than that the use of an interstate facility 
resulted in a later meeting where even an inducement (as opposed to a solicitation) was made. 
7 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012148 
KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP 
The prosecution has never represented to counsel that they have evidence that would 
prove that the inducement or enticement to engage in illegal sexual acts occurred over the phone 
(or Internet). The prosecution's references to routine and habit evidence that would substitute 
for the explicit communications usually found in the transcripts from chat rooms or sting 
operations is tenuous at best. In essence, the prosecution would be alleging communications 
understood, but not spoken, by two people, one of whom was usually a secretary or assistant. 
Separating the actus reus and the mens rea, however, and premising criminal liability on 
persuasion that might occur after the communication, or on the existence of a specific intent to 
engage in illegal sex with a minor that arises after the communication would violate the bedrock 
principle of criminal law that predicates liability on the concurrence of the act and the criminal 
state of mind. Even if, arguendo, the communication and mens rea could be separated (a 
premise which is at odds with the requirement of concurrence), Mr. Epstein denies that the 
factual proof demonstrates such a pattern or practice. Instead, the evidence compellingly proves 
that there was no regularity or predictability to the content of the communication or in what 
occurred at meetings that were telephonically scheduled (including those that are the subject of 
this investigation). 
A second essential element of 2422(b) requires that the defendant knowingly induce, 
persuade, entice or coerce a person believed to be a minor.  . . . [K]knowingly. . . induces. . 
requires the Court to define inducement so it is consistent with its ordinary usage and so the term 
is not so broad that it subsumes the separate statutory terms of entices and persuades. 
Inducement has a common legal meaning that has been endorsed by the government when it 
operates to narrow the affirmative defense of entrapment. Inducement must be more than mere 
solicitation; it must be more than an offer or the providing of an opportunity to engage in 
prohibited conduct. See, e.g,. United States v. Sanchez-Berrios, 424 F.3d 65, 76-77 (1st Cir. 
2005); United States v. Brown, 43 F.3d 618, 625 (11th Cir. 1995). The government cannot fairly, 
or consistent with the rule of lenity, advocate a broader definition of the same term when it 
expands a citizen's exposure to criminal liability than when it limits the ambit of an affirmative 
defense to criminal conduct. If the term is ambiguous, absent clear Congressional intent on the 
issue, the Court's decision in Santos requires that the narrower rather than the broader definition 
be used. 
The facts simply do not prove Mr. Epstein's culpability for knowingly inducing or 
persuading minors. First, in the case of masseuses who agreed or even sought to return to see 
Mr. Epstein on successive occasions, there is no evidence that there was any inducement, 
persuasion, enticement or coercion over the phone. And, for masseuses seeing Mr. Epstein for 
the first time, there was generally no telephone contact with Mr. Epstein and there was no 
knowledge that any third party at Mr. Epstein's specific direction was inviting them to Mr. 
Epstein's home over the phone rather than in face-to-face meetings. The women who visited Mr. 
Epstein's home were all friends of friends. Contrary to the facts in this case, § 2422(b)'s 
knowing inducement element is essential to federal liability and, given its hefty minimum 
mandatory punishment, it should not be interpreted as a strict liability statute. 
8 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012149 
KIRKLAND &ELLIS LLP 
There is insufficient evidence that Mr. Epstein targeted minors, as required. The 
evidentiary pattern does not even establish willful blindness since Mr. Epstein took steps to 
ensure his visitors were over 18—and certainly took none to avoid knowing. But, even if the 
government contends that it possesses evidence that could demonstrate that Mr. Epstein knew or 
should have known or suspected that a small number of the masseuses were underage, that would 
still not make this an appropriate case for federal, rather than state prosecution. The federal 
statutes were not intended to supersede state prosecutions involving isolated instances of 
underage sex. Instead, the federal statutes were intended for large-scale rings or for an 
individual who was engaged, while using interstate facilities such as the Internet, with the willful 
targeting of minors. 
The government's evidence, even when stretched to the limit, will not show a pattern of 
targeting underage persons for illegal sexual activity. A federal prosecution should not become a 
contest between the prosecution and defense over whether the defendant knew, suspected or 
should have known whether a particular person was or was not over age. The history of cases 
brought under this statute make crystal clear that knowledge of the defendant regarding the age 
of the women is required—either by admission or by incontrovertible transcripts of 
conversations (i.e. stings operations which require repeated acknowledgment of the defendant's 
awareness of the victims' age). Even states with absolute liability about mistake regarding age 
rarely prosecute cases where definitive proof is lacking (Palm Beach County rarely does and 
when it does, it imposes house arrest sentences). This is a matter for the exercise of state 
prosecutorial discretion and not federal mandatory minimum statutes that were not intended to 
cover such conduct. 
A third essential element of § 2422(b) is the requirement that the government prove that 
the defendant actually believed that the person being persuaded (coerced, etc.) was a minor at the 
time of the communication. See e.g., Offense Instruction 80, Eleventh Circuit Pattern Jury 
Instructions-Criminal (2003) (The defendant can be found guilty of that offense only if... the 
defendant believed that such individual was less than (18) years of age...); United States v. 
Murrell, 368 F.3d 1283, 1286 (11th Cir. 2004) (§ 2422(b) requires that the defendant knowingly 
target a minor). Importantly, then, all the elements must be proven with respect to a specific 
person. However, we are told that the majority of proof is no more than toll records, not 
recorded conversations or Internet chat transcripts, but toll records and perhaps a memory of 
what was said years ago on a particular call for a particular request from a particular person 
acting at Mr. Epstein's direction. 
Two final points bear special emphasis here. The statute, which according to Santos and 
Cuellar must be narrowly construed, also requires that the inducement be to engage in 
prostitution or sexual activity for which [the defendant] can be charged. 18 U.S.C. § 2422(b). 
However, simple prostitution is not defined (or made punishable) in the U.S. Code, and state law 
thus supplies the appropriate reference point. Under Florida law, prostitution entails the 
giving or receiving of the body for sexual activity for hire, Fla. Stat. § 796.07(1)(a), and the 
term sexual activity is limited to oral, anal, or vaginal penetration by, or union with, the 
9 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012150 
KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP 
sexual organ of another; anal or vaginal penetration of another by any other object; or the 
handling or fondling of the sexual organ of another for the purpose of masturbation. Fla. Stat. § 
796.01(1)(d). Also, the Florida Supreme Court jury instructions define prostitution as involving 
sexual intercourse. As a result, topless massages—even ones for hire that include self-
masturbation—fall outside the ambit of the state-law definition of prostitution. Absent proof 
beyond a reasonable doubt that, at the critical time of the communication, Mr. Epstein had a 
specific intent to persuade another to engage in prostitution or sexual activity, as defined by 
Florida law, he cannot be guilty of an offense under § 2422(b). 
As important, the plain language of the phrase for which any person can be charged 
necessarily excludes acts as to which the state's statute of limitations has run. Under Florida 
law, prostitution and prostitution-related offenses are misdemeanors in the second degree for a 
first violation.2 See Fla. Stat.. § 796.07(4)(a). The limitations period for a misdemeanor in the 
second degree is one year, and there is no tolling provision based upon the victim's age. See Fla. 
Stat. § 775.15(b). Even as to allegations of third degree felonies, the statute of limitations is 
three years. Thus, any conduct alleged to have occurred before mid-June 2005 cannot be 
charged as a matter of state law and thus cannot be a predicate for a § 2422(b) offense—even if 
the federal statute of limitations has not run on any given § 2422(b) offense because of the 
lengthier statute codified in 18 U.S.C. § 3282. Thus, no prosecution under § 2422(b) can be 
brought based upon inducement of prostitution or sexual activity for which Florida's statute of 
limitation has run. Furthermore, in Florida, the statute of limitations does not simply give rise to 
an affirmative defense. On the contrary, statute of limitations creates a substantive right which 
prevents prosecution and conviction of an individual after the statute has run. See State v. King, 
282 So. 2d 162 (Fla. 1973); Tucker v. State, 417 So. 2d 1006 (Fla. 3d D.C.A. 1982) (citing 
cases). 
Given the one-year statute of limitations, any conduct that might amount to prostitution 
or other chargeable sexual activity that occurred before one year from today is not conduct for 
which any person can be charged with a criminal offense. Also, given the three year statute of 
limitations for third degree felonies, any allegations of illegal state criminal conduct that is 
classified as a third degree felony cannot be charged in the state and, concomitantly, cannot be 
the basis for a federal charge under § 2422(b), to the extent that it occurred—as did almost all of 
the pivotal allegations (e.g., the allegation which was made in March of 2005) 
prior to mid-June of 2005. 
2. 18 U.S.C. 1591  
2 The offense is a felony of the third degree only for a third or subsequent violation. Fla. Stat. § 796.07(4)( c). 
10 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012151 
KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP 
18 U.S.C. § 1591, a sex trafficking statute, provides up to 40 years' imprisonment for 
anyone (1) who recruits or obtains by any means a person in interstate commerce (ii) knowing 
that the person is under 18 and (iii) knowing that the person will be caused to engage in a 
commercial sex act. The most heinous of crimes, described on the CEOS website, fall within 
this statute and include the buying and selling of children and the forced servitude of third-world 
immigrants brought to this country to be enslaved. Mr. Epstein's behavior is nowhere near the 
heartland of this statute. This statute has also been previously reserved for prostitution rings 
involving violence, drugs and force. In stark contrast, there is no jurisdictional hook that brings 
Mr. Epstein's conduct within the ambit of the statute, and securing a prosecution on these facts 
would require a court to set aside both reason and precedent to convict a local 'John' with a sex-
slavery crime. It can not be said that Mr. Epstein engaged in trafficking and slavery nor did he 
knowingly recruit or obtain underage women with knowledge that they would be caused to 
engage in a commercial sex act. Thus, prosecuting him under this statute would expand the law 
far beyond its scope. 
To the extent there are cases where prosecutors think that Mr. Epstein should have known 
that certain women were underage, there is no evidence that Mr. Epstein caused [them] to 
engage in a commercial sex act. The term cause naturally implies the application of some 
sort of force, coercion, or undue pressure, but there is no evidence that Mr. Epstein's interactions 
with the women were anything but consensual. Again, many of the women phoned Mr. 
Epstein's assistant themselves in order to determine whether he wanted a massage. Nor can the 
cause requirement be proved simply by the fact that Mr. Epstein compensated the women. After 
all, the statute elsewhere requires that the women engage in a commercial sex act, which by 
definition means that they would have received something of value in exchange for sexual 
services. Interpreting the statute to authorize prosecution whenever a commercial sex act results 
from solicitation thus would render the term caused superfluous, and would make every 'John' 
who interacts with an underage prostitute guilty of a federal crime—even where the transaction 
is entirely local. Read in context, then, there is no doubt that the statute targets pimps and sex-
traffickers who knowingly obtain underage girls and direct them to engage in prostitution. There 
is not a shred of evidence that Mr. Epstein (or his assistants) did any such thing, and he cannot be 
prosecuted under this statute. 
The Cuellar and Santos decisions also foreclose a prosecution under § 1591. Just as the 
federal money laundering statute did not come down to a proscription against transportation of 
criminal proceeds that are hidden, the sex trafficking of children statute cannot be boiled down 
and expanded to a federal proscription of commercial sexual activity with persons who turn out 
to be below the age of 18. 
3. 18 U.S.C. § 2423 
11 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012152 
KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP 
18 U.S.C. § 2423(b), a statute enacted to prevent sex tourism, provides up to 30 years of 
imprisonment for anyone who travels across state lines (i) for the purpose of engaging in (ii) 
illicit sexual conduct with a minor. Neither of those elements is satisfied here. 
Mr. Epstein did not travel to Palm Beach for the purpose of engaging in sexual activity 
with a minor, within the meaning of the statute. The evidence is indisputable that Palm Beach 
was where Mr. Epstein spent most of his discretionary time, and that his travels to Palm Beach 
were merely trips returning often to his home of twenty years—not the escapades of a sex tourist 
off to some destination inextricably intertwined with the required significant or dominant 
purpose of that trip to be to have illicit sexual conduct. Epstein's trips to Palm Beach were 
simply those of a businessperson traveling home for weekends or stopping over on his way to or 
from New York and St. Thomas or to visit his sick and dying mother in the hospital for months 
on end. He certainly did not travel to his home in Florida for the dominant purpose of engaging 
in sexual conduct with a person who he knew was under 18 when he did not know, at the time he 
decided to travel, from whom he was to receive a massage, if he were to receive one at all. 
In Cuellar, the unanimous Supreme Court linked the term design in the money-
laundering statute to the terms purpose and plan, and stressed that those terms all required 
the defendant to formulate a plan for; devise; [t]o create or contrive for a particular purpose or 
effect; [carry out] [a] plan or scheme; or to conceive and plan out in the mind. Slip. op. at 
12 (citing dictionary definitions). The same link is present here, and it simply cannot be said that 
Mr. Epstein's design, plan, or purpose in traveling to Palm Beach was to engage in illicit sexual 
conduct with minors; his design or plan or purpose was simply to return to his home. 
Any construction of § 2423(b)'s for the purpose of' language to include purposes 
beyond the dominant purpose of the travel would run afoul of the rule of lenity and due process 
principles discussed earlier. Any attempted prosecution of Mr. Epstein under a more expansive 
construction of the for the purpose of' language would also violate the separation of powers 
doctrine. Congress, which selected the for the purpose of' language signaled no clear intention 
to make it a federal crime whenever an actor has engaged in illicit sexual conduct following his 
crossing of state lines as long as it might be said that sexual activity at his destination was among 
the activities he pursued there. Congress well knows how to write a statute in this field which 
eliminates a purpose requirement. See 18 U.S.C. § 2423(c)(Any United States citizen or alien 
admitted for permanent residence who travels in foreign commerce, and engages in any illicit 
sexual conduct with another person ...). § 2423(b) is not such a statute. 
Federal court decisions watering down the for the purpose of requirement fly in the 
face of the two Supreme Court decisions addressing that element. See Hansen v. Huff 291 U.S. 
559 (1934); Mortensen v. United States, 322 U.S. 369 (1944). Santos and Cuellar speak loudly 
and clearly against prosecutors seeing such elasticity in federal criminal statutes, including those 
enacted to protect important federal interests. In cases involving the federalization of activity 
that is within the States' historic police power, Congress must speak with particular clarity. See, 
e.g., Will v. Michigan Dep't of State Police, 491 U.S. 58, 65 (1989). 
12 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012153 
IURKLAND &ELLIS LLP 
Relevant Past Cases  
We have not been able to find a single federal prosecution based on facts like these—but 
have voluminous evidence of federal prosecutors routinely declining to bring charges in cases far 
more egregious than this one. To take just one obvious example, federal prosecutors have self-
consciously refrained from involvement in the literally dozens of sexual cases of former priests, 
opting instead to allow seasoned state prosecutors (like the ones in this case) to pursue the 
accused former clergymen. That is so despite (1) the large number of victims, (2) the vast 
geographic diversity of the cases, and (3) the fact that some of these cases involve allegations 
that the defendant forcibly molested, abused, or raped literally dozens of children—including 
some as young as five years old—over a period of years. Nonetheless, federal prosecutors have 
not hesitated to let their state counterparts pursue these cases free from federal interference—
even though the sentences meted out vary greatly on account of the fact that [c]riminal penalties 
are specific to localities or jurisdictions.3 The facts of this case, which involve the solicitation 
of consensual topless massages and some sexual contact, entirely in the privacy of his home and 
almost entirely by women over the age of 18, pale in comparison to the outright sexual abuse and 
degradation of preteen minors in many of the priest cases. 
Nor does this case bear any of the hallmarks that typify the cases that federal prosecutors 
have pursued under the federal statutes at issue here. When asked, the closest case suggested by 
the prosecutors was United States v. Boehm—and it hardly could differ more from Mr. Epstein's 
case. In Boehm, the defendant was charged with conspiracy to distribute cocaine and cocaine 
base to minors, in violation of 21 U.S.C. §§ 846, 841(a)(1), and 859(a); being a felon in 
possession of a firearm, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1); and sex trafficking of children in 
violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 371 and 1591. United States v. Boehm, Case No. 3:04CR00003 (D. 
Alaska 2004). Boelun's actions, unlike Mr. Epstein's, also had a strong interstate nexus: Boehm 
purchased and distributed large quantities of crack cocaine and cocaine that traveled in interstate 
commerce, and he used his home and hotels (which were used by interstate travelers) to purchase 
drugs and distribute them to minors while also arranging for these minors to have sex with him 
and others. Indeed, Boehm not only (1) purchased cocaine in large quantities; (2) distributed the 
drugs to minors; (3) possessed illegal firearms; (4) and arranged for the minors to have sex with 
other members of the conspiracy in exchange for drugs; but (5) admitted to knowing the ages of 
the individuals involved.4 Here, by contrast, as previous stated, all of the conduct took place in 
Mr. Epstein's private home in Palm Beach; there was no for-profit enterprise; no interstate 
component; no use by Mr. Epstein of an instrumentality of interstate commerce; no violence; no 
force; no alcohol; no drugs; no guns; and no child pornography. 
3 See http://www.bishop-accountability.org/reports/2004_02_27_JohnJay/2004_02_27 Terry Joluday_3.htm 
#cleric7. 
4 
In fact, Boehm and his co-defendants distributed drugs to approximately 12 persons between the ages of 13 and 
21. Boehm also had a prior criminal history—and one that clearly showed he was a danger to society: he 
previously had been convicted of raping both a thirteen year-old girl and a fifteen year-old girl. (Day 7 of 
Sentencing hearing p. 32). 
13 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012154 
KIRKLAND &ELLIS LLP 
To the extent there is a similar, but more egregious, local Florida case on the books, it is 
that of Barry Kutun, a former North Miami city attorney accused of having sex with underage 
prostitutes and videotaping the sessions. Mr. Kutun pleaded guilty on May 18, 2007 in a Miami-
Dade County courtroom as part of an agreement with State prosecutors and he received five 
years probation and a withholding of adjudication with no requirement to register as a sex 
offender—all without a shred of involvement by federal prosecutors, who declined to prosecute 
him. Indeed, given the wide use of the telephone in today's society, it gives a rogue prosecutor 
carte blanche to turn any local crime into a federal offense. Given the federal government's 
decision to abstain from prosecuting that case, it is hard to understand how the federal 
prosecutors responsible for this case think that the State's treatment of Mr. Epstein somehow 
leaves federal interests substantially un.vindicated. There is simply no basis for the federal 
prosecutors' disparate treatment of Mr. Epstein. 
Summary of the Evidence  
Finally, we wish to share new evidence—obtained through discovery in connection with 
the civil lawsuits filed in this matter—which confirms that further federal involvement in this 
matter would be inappropriate. This testimony taken to date categorically confirms that (i) Mr. 
Epstein did not target minors; (ii) women under 18 often lied to Mr. Epstein about their ages; (iii) 
Mr. Epstein did not travel in interstate commerce for the purpose of engaging in illegal sexual 
activity; (iv) Mr. Epstein did not use the Internet, telephone or any other means of interstate 
communication to coerce or entice alleged victims; (v) Mr. Epstein did not apply force or 
coercion to obtain sexual favors; and (vi) all sexual activity that occurred was unplanned and 
purely consensual. The women's own statements—made under oath—demonstrate the absence 
of a legitimate federal concern in this matter, and highlight the serious practical difficulties an 
attempted federal prosecution would face. 
• Mr. Epstein did not recruit or obtain these women in interstate commerce (necessary 
for a conviction under § 1591). 
o confirmed that she did not know Mr. Epstein and had 
absolutely no contact with him—be it through Internet, chat rooms, email, 
or phone—prior to their arrival at his home. See Tab 13 Tr. 
(deposition), p. 30. 
o has stated that (like many other women) she first met Mr. 
Epstein when her friend, introduced her to him. See Tab 
14, Tr. A, p. 4-5. ________________________ 
• Mr. Epstein was told the girls were over 18. 
o expressly admitted to lying to Mr. Epstein about her age. 
See Tab 13, . (deposition), p. 37 (Q. So you told Jeff that you 
were 18 years old, correct? A. Yes.). 
stated that she not only always made sure she had a fake ID 
with her and lied to Mr. Epstein by telling him she was 18, but that she 
14 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012155 
KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP 
also had conversations with other women in which these women hoped 
that Jeffrey didn't find out [their] age[s]. See Tab 6, Miller Tr., p. 45. 
o also stated that she: would tell my girlfriends just like 
approached me. Make sure you tell him you're 18. Well, these girls that I 
brought, I know that they were 18 or 19 or 20. And the girls that I didn't 
know and I don't know if they were lying or not, I would say make sure 
that you tell him you're 18. See Tab 6, Ir., p. 22. 
o stated that old her say that she was 18 if asked. See 
Tab 14, Tr. A, p. 8. 
stated that she told him I was 19. See Tab 5, 
Tr., p. 16. 
• Mr. Epstein did not know these women would be caused to engage in a sex act 
(necessary for a conviction under § 1591) and any sexual activity that took place was 
unplanned. 
o stated sometimes [Mr. Epstein] likes topless massages, but 
you don't have to do anything you don't want to do. He just likes 
massages. See Tab 6, Tr., p. 7. 
o also stated [s]ometimes [Mr. Epstein] just wanted his feet 
massaged. Sometimes he just wanted a back massage. See Tab 6, 
Tr., p. 19. 
• Mr. Epstein did not use an interstate facility to communicate an illegal objective to 
the alleged victims (necessary for a conviction under § 2422(b)). 
o confirmed that Mr. Epstein never emailed, texted, or chatted 
in an Internet chat room with her. See Tab 13, (deposition), 
p. 30. 
• Mr. Epstein did not target minors (necessary for a conviction under § 2422(b)) 
o stated, I always made sure -- I had a fake ID, anyways, saying 
that I was 18. And I (who is friend who brought her to 
Mr. Epstein's home)] just said make sure you're 18 because Jeffrey 
doesn't want any underage girls. See Tab 6, Fr., p. 8. 
• Mr. Epstein did not use the phone or the Internet to induce proscribed sexual activity 
(necessary for a conviction under § 2422(b)). 
o stated that there was never any discussion over the phone about 
her coming over to Mr. Epstein's home to engage in sexual activity: The 
only thing that ever occurred on any of these phone calls [with 
or another assistant] was, 'Are you willing to come over,' or, 
15 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012156 
KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP 
'Would you like to come over and give a massage. See Tab 14= Tr. 
A, p. 15 
confirmed that she was informed that she was going to Mr. 
Epstein's house to give him a massage and nothing else, and that no one 
said anything to [her] on the telephone [or over the Internet] about sexual 
activity with Mr. Epstein. See Tab 13, (deposition), p. 24-
25. 
o also confirmed that no one associated with Mr. Epstein ever 
tried to call her or contact her through the Internet to try to persuade, 
induce, entice or coerce her to engage in any sexual activity. See Tab 13, 
(deposition), p. 31. 
• Mr. Epstein did not travel to Palm Beach for the purpose of engaging in sexual 
activity with a minor (necessary for a conviction under § 2423(b)). 
o Mr. Epstein spent at least 100 days a year in Palm Beach for family 
purposes, business purposes, and social purposes, and to maintain a home. 
o While in Palm Beach, Mr. Epstein routinely visits family members and 
close friends, has seen his primary care physician for checkups and 
prescribed tests in the Palm Beach area, and until her death in April of 
2004, regularly saw his mother who was hospitalized and then 
convalesced in south Florida. 
o From 2003 through 2005 there was no month when Mr. Epstein did not 
spend at least one weekend in Palm Beach. 
o The Palm Beach area is the home base for his flight operations, for 
maintenance of his aircraft, and for periodic FAA inspections. 
o Additionally, Mr. Epstein's pilots and engineers all resided in Florida. 
• Mr. Epstein's conduct did not involve force, coercion or violence and any sexual 
activity that took place was consensual. The witness transcripts are replete with 
statements such as the following: 
o stated that she was not persuaded, induced, enticed or 
coerced by anyone to engage in any sexual activity. See Tab 13, 
Tr. (deposition), p. 31. 
o tated: [Mr. Epstein] never tried to force me to do anything. 
See Tab 14, 
o stated, I said, I told Jeffrey, I heard you like massages topless. 
And he's like, yeah, he said, but you don't have to do anything that you 
16 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012157 
KIRKLAND &ELLIS LLP 
don't feel comfortable with. And I said okay, but I willingly took it off 
See Tab 6, 
o also stated [s]ome girls didn't want to go topless and Jeffrey 
didn't mind. See Tab 6, 
• Mr. Epstein did not engage in luring. 
o Mr. Epstein's message books show that several masseuses would regularly 
call Mr. Epstein's assistants, without any prompting by Mr. Epstein or his 
assistants, asking to visit Mr. Epstein at his home. 
o stated a lot of girls begged me to bring them back [to Mr. 
Epstein's house]. 
• There was no alcohol or drugs involved, a fact that is not in dispute. 
• Mr. Epstein has no prior criminal history, a fact that is not in dispute. 
• These women do not see themselves as victims. 
o indicated under oath that the FBI attempted to persuade her that 
she was in fact a victim of federal crimes when she herself repeatedly 
confirmed that she was not. See Tab 14, , p. 9-12 and Tab 15, 
B, p. 7. 
Conclusion  
Jeffrey Epstein, a self-made businessman with no prior criminal history, should not be 
prosecuted federally for conduct that amounts to, the solicitation of prostitution. A federal 
prosecution based on these facts would be an unprecedented exercise of federal power, a misuse 
of federal resources, and a prosecution that would carry with it the appearance, if not the reality, 
of unwarranted selectivity given the incongruity between the facts as developed in this matter 
and the factual paradigms for all other reported federal prosecutions under each of the three 
statutes being considered. It would require the pursuit of a novel legal theory never before 
sanctioned by federal law—and that indeed is inconsistent with each of the statutes prosecutors 
have identified. Accordingly, we respectfully request that you direct the U.S. Attorney's Office 
for the Southern District of Florida to discontinue its involvement in this matter, and return 
responsibility for this case to the State of Florida. 
17 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012158 
SUMMARY OF 
MISCONDUCT 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012159 
KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP 
SUMMARY OF MISCONDUCT ISSUES IN THE MATTER OF JEFFREY E. EPSTEIN 
• The manner in 
which federal prosecutors have pursued the allegations against Mr. Epstein is highly irregular 
and warrants full review by the Depaament. While we repeatedly have raised our concerns 
regarding misconduct with the United States Attorney's Office in Miami (the USAO), not only 
has it has remained unwilling to address these issues, but Mr. Epstein's defense counsel has been 
instructed to limit its contact to the very prosecutors who are the subject of this misconduct 
complaint. For your review, this document summarizes the USAO's conduct in this case. 
Background  
1. In March 2005, the Palm Beach Police Department opened a criminal investigation of 
Palm Beach resident, Jeffrey E. Epstein. The press has widely reported that Mr. Epstein 
is a close friend of former President Bill Clinton. 
2. In July 2006, after an intensive probe, including interviews of dozens of witnesses, 
returns of numerous document subpoenas, multiple trash pulls and the execution of a 
search warrant on his residence, Mr. Epstein was indicted by a Florida Grand Jury on one 
count of felony solicitation of prostitution. 
3. In a publicly released letter, Palm Beach Police Chief Michael Reiter criticized the Grand 
Jury's decision and the State Attorney's handling of the case. Shortly after the Grand 
Jury's indictment, the Chief took the unprecedented step of releasing his Department's 
raw police reports of the investigation (including Detective Recarey's unedited written 
reports of witness statements and witness identification information), that were later 
proven to be highly inaccurate transcriptions of witnesses' actual statements. The Chief 
also publicly asked federal authorities to prosecute the case. 
Jeffrey Sloman Becomes Involved in Mr. Epstein's Case at the Earliest Stage 
4. In early November of 2006, Epstein's lawyers had their initial contact with the newly 
assigned line federal prosecutor, A. Marie Villafana. Although it is extremely unusual 
for a First Assistant United States Attorney to participate in such a communication, 
FAUSA Jeffrey Sloman was present on that very first phone call. 
5. On November 16, 2006, despite that the fact that the investigation exclusively concerned 
illegal sexual conduct during massage sessions, AUSA Villafana issued irrelevant official 
document requests seeking Mr. Epstein's 2004 and 2005 personal income-tax returns, 
and later subpoenaed his medical records. See Tab 16, November 16, 2006 Letter from 
M. Villafana. 
Sloman Becomes Personally Involved in a Dispute Over Another State Sex Case 
6. In March 2007, FAUSA Sloman reported to local police an attempted trespass by a 17-
year-old male. Mr. Sloman claimed that the individual had attempted to enter Mr. 
Sloman's home without invitation to make contact with his 16-year-old daughter, but he 
spotted the young man before the perpetrator had an opportunity to enter the house. The 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012160 
KIRKLAND &ELLIS LLP 
same individual had previously fled the home of another neighbor after entering that 
house uninvited, when, looking for the bedroom of their 17-year-old daughter, he 
mistakenly entered the bedroom of their 14-year-old daughter, touched her on the leg and 
startled her awake. State of Florida v. Johnathan Jeffrey Zirulnikoff, Case No. F078646 
(June 28, 2007). 
7. After a thorough review by the Miami State Attorney's Office, and sex-crimes prosecutor 
Laura Adams, the investigation revealed that the defendant and both the neighbor's 17-
year-old daughter and Mr. Sloman's daughter were previously acquainted. The 
defendant was charged with simple trespass in connection with his unauthorized entry 
into the neighbor's house. Id. 
8. FAUSA Sloman, however, demanded that the young man be registered as a sex offender 
and objected to any sentence short of incarceration. The Assistant State Attorney in 
charge of the sex-crimes unit reported Mr. Sloman's conduct during the proceedings as 
outrageous. The defendant's attorney described Mr. Sloman as being out of control. 
Shortly after, Mr. Sloman began publicly deriding the elected State Attorney, his office 
and the state process for prosecuting sex offenses, as a joke. 
Unauthorized Tactics in Disregard of the United States Attorney's Manual are Used 
9. In June 2007, AUSA Villafana subpoenaed the investigating agent of Epstein's attorney, 
Roy Black, in a clear effort to invade the defense camp. The subpoena was specifically 
drafted to discover the investigator's contacts, with all prospective witnesses, Mr. Epstein 
and his attorneys.' Not surprisingly, Ms. Villafana issued this subpoena without the 
requisite prior approval by the DOJ's Office of Enforcement Operations. See United 
States Attorneys' Manual, § 9-13.410. When confronted, she misleadingly responded 
that she had consulted with the Department of Justice and was not required to obtain 
0E0 approval because her subpoena was not directed to an office physically located 
within an attorney's office. See Tab 18, December 13, 2007 Letter from M. Villafana at 
4 n.1 . This answer clearly suggests that Ms. Villafana had intentionally misled the 
Department officials about the items that her subpoena sought.2 
The subpoena sought, among other things: All documents and information related to the nature of the 
relationship between [the investigator and/or his firm] and Mr. Jeffrey Epstein, including but not limited to . . . 
records of the dates when services were performed . . . telephone logs or records of dates of communications 
with Mr. Epstein (or with a third party on Mr. Epstein's behalf); appointment calendars/datebooks and the like 
(whether in hard copy or electronic form) for any period when work was performed on behalf of Mr. Epstein or 
when any communication was had with Mr. Epstein (or with a third party on Mr. Epstein's behalf) . See Tab 
17, June 18, 2007 Subpoena to William Riley! Riley Kiraly, If 3. 
Indeed, we are aware of two other recent instances in which Villafana placed serious misrepresentations before 
a court. On July 31, 2007, in the grand-jury litigation arising out of this case, she filed the Declaration of 
Joseph Recarey, attaching the state detective's affidavit in support of a search warrant for Epstein's house. See 
In Re Grand Jury Subpoenas Duces Tecum OLY-63 and OLY-64, No. FGJ 07-103(WPB) (S.D. Fla. July 31, 
2007). At the time she filed Detective Recarey's affidavit, she knew it contained numerous material 
misrepresentations, including gross misstatements of witness statements and other evidence. Second, we 
(Continued...) 
2 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012161 
KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP 
Mr. Epstein is Required to Agree to Civil Liability In Order to Avoid a Federal Indictment 
10. On July 31, 2007, during negotiations over a possible federal plea agreement, FAUSA 
Sloman and AUSA Villafana demanded that Mr. Epstein agree to the imposition of civil 
liability under 18 U.S.C. § 2255 as a pre-condition to deferral of federal prosecution. To 
the best of our knowledge, the inclusion of such a term in a deferred prosecution 
agreement of this kind is absolutely unprecedented.3 Specifically, Ms. Villafana 
demanded that Mr. Epstein waive the right to contest civil liability to a list of individuals 
she said were victims of § 2255, whose names, however, she refused to disclose, and 
agree to pay damages of a minimum of $150,000 to each and every one of such 
undisclosed individuals, and hire an attorney to represent them if they decided to sue 
him. See Tab 20, July 31, 2007 Draft of Deferred Prosecution Agreement. 
11. FAUSA Sloman and AUSA Villafana insisted that the identities of the individuals on the 
list not be disclosed to Mr. Epstein or his counsel until after Mr. Epstein was already 
sentenced in the state case. 
(a) Over the next two months, Mr. Sloman refused to negotiate these terms. They 
ultimately became incorporated into the final deferred prosecution agreement. 
See Tab 21, September 24, 2007 Non-Prosecution Agreement, T117-11. 
(b) It was not until seven months later, in February 2008, that Epstein's lawyers were 
able to take their first official statement from one of the women FAUSA Sloman 
alleged were minor victims of federal offenses. 
(c) This statement, a deposition of the initial complainant in the state 
case, taken in the presence of her lawyer, proved that none of the necessary 
elements for any federal charge could be satisfied based on brief 
contact with Mr. Epstein. The witness also admitted lying to Mr. Epstein, 
testifying that she told him that she was an adult  and wanted him to believe that 
she was an adult. See Tab 13,_____________________(deposition), p. 35 (Q. So you 
told Jeff that you were 18 years old, correct? A. Yes.), 37 (Q. You wanted Mr. 
Epstein to believe that you really were 18, right? A. Correct.). 
(d) Shortly after this deposition, the defense was able to obtain statements from other 
women on Mr. Sloman's so called list of § 2255 victims and, so far, all such 
statements also continue to demonstrate that Mr. Sloman's repeated 
representations to the defense about the existence of federal jurisdiction were 
false. 
understand that Villafana was recently reprimanded at a special hearing convened by a United States District 
Judge in the West Palm Beach Division of the Southern District of Florida, for making misrepresentations 
during a prior sentencing proceeding. 
3 In fact, Stephanie Thacker, a former deputy to CEOS Chief Drew Oosterbaan, has stated that she knew of no 
other case like this being prosecuted by CEOS. 
3 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012162 
KIRKLAND &ELLIS LLP 
12. In August 2007, in a clear attempt to coerce a state settlement, Ms. Villafana threatened 
to broaden the investigation to include a money laundering violation (18 U.S.C. § 1956), 
though all the funds expended were simply Mr. Epstein's, and a violation for operating an 
unlicensed money-transmitting business (18 U.S.C. § 1960), though Mr. Epstein never 
had such a business. See Tab 22, August 31, 2007 Letter from M. Villafana to Ross 
(reciting, in a target letter to one of Epstein's employees, that the investigation concerns 
suspected violations of federal law, including but not limited to, possible violations of 
Title 18, United States Code, Sections . . . 1591, . . . 1956, 1960 . . . .) (emphasis 
added). 
13. On the very same day that the grand jury issued subpoenas to the records-custodian and 
employees of Epstein's businesses for all financial transactions from 2003 forward, Ms. 
Villafana (who we were told was not authorized to act in this regard without supervisory 
approval) promised to close the money-laundering investigation if the sex offense case 
is resolved. See Tab 23, August 16, 2007 Letter from M. Villafana to G. Lefcourt (In 
other words, if the sex offense case is resolved, the Office would close its investigation 
into other areas as well. The matter has not been, and it does not appear that it will be, 
resolved so the money laundering investigation continues, and Request Number 6 
[seeking records of every financial transaction conducted by Epstein and his six 
businesses from January 1, 2003 to the present] will not be withdrawn.). 
14. Two weeks later, when Mr. Epstein continued to oppose federal prosecution during 
negotiations and Mr. Epstein's counsel sought a meeting with the United States Attorney, 
AUSA Villafana then classified all of Mr. Epstein's assistants as targets (sending a target 
letter to one of them and promising the attorney of the other two that additional target 
letters would be served on them as well), dispatched FBI agents to the homes of two of 
his secretaries, and personally telephoned Mr. Epstein's largest business client to advise 
him of the nature of the investigation. See Tab 22, August 31, 2007 Letter from M. 
Villafana to 
FAUSA Sloman Forces Mr. Epstein's Lawyers to Convince the State Prosecutors To  
Impose a More Severe Sentence Than They Believe Is Appropriate  
15. Throughout the plea negotiations with the USAO, Mr. Sloman and Ms. Villafana 
continually insisted that the only way they would agree not to bring a federal indictment 
was if Epstein's lawyers, not the state prosecutors as required under the Petite Policy, 
convinced the state prosecutors to impose a more severe punishment than the state 
believed was appropriate under the circumstances. 
16. FAUSA Sloman's version of the history with respect to the sentence he required Mr. 
Epstein's lawyers to seek from the State contradicts his later assertion, which is patently 
false—that the SDFL indicated a willingness to defer to the State the length of 
incarceration and considered a plea to federal charges that limited Epstein's 
sentencing exposure . ..  See Tab 1, May 19, 2008 Letter from J. Sloman. In fact, by a 
email dated August 3, 2007, Criminal Division Chief Matthew Menchel advised the 
defense that the federal government required a minimum term of two years of 
incarceration. See Tab 40, August 3, 2007 Email from M. Menchel. Subsequently, Ms. 
4 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012163 
KIRKLAND &ELLIS LLP 
Villafana emailed the defense stating that United States Attorney Acosta would accept no 
less than 18 months of incarceration, following by a one-year term of house arrest. 
Federal Prosecutors Misrepresented the Number of Alleged Victims.  
17. In September 2007, in order to add additional pressure on Mr. Epstein to execute a 
deferred prosecution agreement, AUSA Villafana claimed that there were 40 minors on 
the government's list of purported § 2255 victims. To compound that misleading 
characterization, she continued to insist that a guardian-ad-litem be appointed to represent 
these purported minors in the proceedings. See Tab 24, September 19, 2007 Email 
from M. Villafana to J. Lefkowitz. 
18. When challenged as to whether there was a genuine need for a guardian, given that Ms. 
Villafana continued to refuse to disclose the names or any other information about her 
putative list of minors, she eventually conceded that only I is definitely under 18 still, 
and I think there is another minor. See Tab 25, September 23, 2007 Email from M. 
Villafana to J. Lefkowitz (emphasis added). 
19. The next day, AUSA Villafana retreated from the number 40, stating that she had now 
compiled a list of 34 confirmed minor victims with no definition of how they would be 
considered as such.. There are six others, whose names we already have, who need to be 
interviewed by the FBI to confirm whether they were 17 or 18 at the time of their activity 
with Mr. Epstein. See Tab 26, September 24, 2007 Email from M. Villafana to J. 
Lefkowitz (emphasis added). This statement indicated that, at least the six others (and, 
as it turns out, all those identified except two) had reached the age of majority, and, in 
fact, no guardian was necessary to represent their interests. 
Defense Counsel was Falsely Advised That the Non Prosecution Agreement Would Be Kept 
Confidential.  
20. On September 24, Epstein and the USAO executed a Non Prosecution Agreement. 
21. His attorneys asked Ms. Villafana to please do whatever you can to keep this from 
becoming public. See Tab 27, September 24, 2007 Email from J. Lefkowitz to M. 
Villafana. 
22. Ms. Villafana replied that she had forwarded your message only to Alex [Acosta], Andy 
[Lourie], and Rolando [Garcia]. I don't anticipate it going any further than that. Id. 
23. Ms. Villafana stated that the agreement would be placed in the case file, which will be 
kept confidential since it also contains identifying information about the girls. Id. 
The Prosecution Immediately Notifies Three Plaintiffs That Mr. Epstein Has Executed A  
Non Prosecution Agreement  
24. In direct violation of these representations, shortly after the signing, the government 
notified three victims of the general terms of the Non Prosecution Agreement. See 
5 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012164 
(c) 
KIRKLAND &ELLIS LLP 
Tab 18, December 13, 2007 Letter from M. Villafana (admitting that the notification 
occurred shortly after the signing). 
AUSA Villafana Misleads Mr. Epstein In An Attempt To Refer Plaintiffs to Her 
Boyfriend's Close Friend  
25. On September 25, Ms. Villafana recommended a local products-liability defense 
attorney, Humberto Bert Ocariz, Esq., for the highly lucrative post of attorney 
representative for the government's list of as-yet-undisclosed victims.4 
(a) 
Ms. Villafana wrote to the defense, I have never met Bert, but a good friend in 
our appellate section and one of the district judges in Miami are good friends 
with him and recommended him. See Tab 28, September 25, 2007 Email from 
M. Villafana to J. Lefkowitz (bottom email) (emphasis added). 
(b) Ms. Villafana failed to disclose that this good friend in our appellate section 
was her live-in boyfriend. See Tab 18, December 13, 2007 Letter from M. 
Villafana (conceding the relationship with my boyfriend). 
Beyond her clear conflict-of-interest and affirmative effort to conceal it, it is 
unimaginable that AUSA Villafana would have engaged in an ex-parte 
communication with a United States District Judge in the same district about the 
details of a pending grand-jury investigation without prior disclosure and 
supervisory approval. 
(d) Later, it became clear that Ms. Villafana also had at least one other ex-parte 
communication with that same United States District Judge about the grand jury's 
investigation. See Tab 29, October 5, 2007 Email from M. Villafana to J. 
Lefkowitz (stating that one of the District Judges in Miami mentioned [retired 
Judge Joseph Hatchett] as a good choice to decide any fee disputes concerning 
Epstein's paying for a lawyer to represent the unnamed women in claims against 
Epstein). 
26. The next day, AUSA Villafana advised the defense that she was removing one of the 
alternatives to Mr. Ocariz from our consideration, on the basis that one of his partners is 
married to an AUSA here, and explained that, because of that personal relationship, 
4 
These actions were improper. As you know, the Department prohibits employees from using any nonpublic 
information to secure private benefits of any kind: An employee shall not ... allow the improper use of 
nonpublic information to further his own private interest or that of another, whether through advice or 
recommendation, or by knowing unauthorized disclosure. 5 C.F.R. § 2635.703 (emphasis added). Among 
the examples of prohibited disclosure specifically illustrated by this regulation is the disclosure of nonpublic 
information to friends to further their financial interests, id., at Example 1, and the disclosure of nonpublic 
information to a newspaper reporter, id., at Example 5 (see allegations below regarding the leak to the New York 
Times). Furthermore, the Justice Department prohibits its employees from using their position to benefit friends 
or relatives. See 5. C.F.R. § 2635.702; see also 5. C.F.R. § 2535.502. 
6 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012165 
IURKLAND &ELLIS LLP 
[t]here is too great a chance of an appearance of impropriety. See Tab 28, September 
26, 2007 Email from M. Villafana to J. Lefkowitz. 
27. The following day, Ms. Villafana relayed that, and asked us to respond to, the very first 
concern raised Mr. Ocariz, which was how are they going to get paid and whether 
there is any cap or other limitation on attorney's fees that [Epstein] will pay in the civil 
case. See Tab 30, September 27, 2007 Email from M. Villafana to J. Lefkowitz. 
28. Ms. Villafana clearly contemplated that Mr. Epstein would be paying for Mr. Ocariz at 
his hourly rate to represent the alleged victims against Epstein even if all [the] girls 
decide they want to sue. Id. 
29. When the defense complained of Ms. Villafana's undisclosed conflict-of-interest in 
selecting her boyfriend's friend to prosecute civil claims against Mr. Epstein on behalf of 
her undisclosed list of purported victims, Ms. Villafana later argued that Mr. Epstein 
had no right to complain because the Non-Prosecution Agreement vested the Office with 
the exclusive right to select the attorney representative. See Tab 18, December 13, 2007 
Letter from M. Villafana. Shortly after being notified, however, United States Attorney 
Acosta removed Mr. Ocariz from consideration, and requested an amendment to the Non 
Prosecution Agreement. 
30. In response to the many complaints about Ms. Villafana's misconduct and violations of 
the United States Attorney's Manual, Criminal Division Chief Matthew Menchel 
characterized her as unsupervisable. 
31. Contrary to the express agreement of United States Attorney Acosta that the federal 
government would not interfere in the administration of any state sentence, FAUSA 
Sloman continued to try to deny the right of the State to issue work release and/or gain 
time by stating that Mr. Epstein must make a binding recommendation that the Court 
impose a sentence of 18 months of continuous confinement in the county jail. See Tab 
21, September 24, 2007 Non Prosecution Agreement. Shortly thereafter, Mr. Sloman 
sent the FBI to meet with the state sex-crimes prosecutor in an attempt to secure her 
commitment to oppose a work release option. 
FAUSA Sloman Attempts to Thwart Discovery 
32. On October 31, Mr. Sloman emailed Mr. Epstein's counsel, confirming that I understand 
that the plea and sentence will occur on or before the January 4th [2008] date. See Tab 
41, October 31, 2007 Email from J. Sloman to J. Lefkowitz (emphasis added). 
33. On November 5, despite Mr. Sloman's having sent that email just one week before, after 
learning that the defense had begun to question women on their list, Mr. Sloman wrote 
Mr. Epstein's attorneys demanding that his plea and sentencing in the State case now be 
moved up to November 2007. See Tab 2, November 5, 2007 Letter from J. Sloman. 
34. Mr. Sloman further demanded in the letter that Mr. Epstein's attorneys confirm that 
there will be no further efforts to contact any victims until the victims are represented by 
counsel. Id. As the women were all adults, there could be no lawful justification for Mr. 
7 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012166 
KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP 
Sloman's demand, other than to protect prospective plaintiffs from being interviewed 
prior to their retaining an attorney (including, as it turned out, Mr. Sloman's former law 
partner) to bring civil lawsuits against Epstein. 
35. Mr. Sloman also demanded that Epstein begin his term of incarceration not later than 
January 4, 2008, id., which turned out to be just three weeks before the first civil lawsuit 
would be filed against Epstein. 
36. Contrary to the express agreement of United States Attorney Acosta that the federal 
government would not interfere in the administration of any state sentence, Mr. Sloman 
tried to limit gain time and or work release by stating that Mr. Epstein must make a 
binding recommendation that the Court impose a sentence of 18 months of continuous 
confinement in the county jail. Id. (This followed Mr. Sloman's position that the Office 
would consider a state sentence ordering probation in lieu of incarceration to be a breach 
of the deferred-prosecution agreement.) Shortly thereafter, Mr. Sloman sent the FBI to 
meet with the state sex-crimes prosecutor in an attempt to secure her commitment to 
oppose work release. 
37. Mr. Sloman insisted that Mr. Epstein not learn the identities of the government's list of 
alleged victims until after Epstein was sentenced and incarcerated. 
38. We have reason to believe that, around this same time, Mr. Sloman's former law partner, 
Jeffrey Herman, had met with the father of one of the prospective plaintiffs, Saige 
Gonzalez.5 At the same time (and until as recently as March of 2008), the Official 
Florida Bar website continued to identify Mr. Sloman as a named partner in Mr. 
Herman's firm. See Tab 31, Florida Bar Website page. 
39. Mr. Herman, who is the named partner in the former firm of Herman, Sloman, 
Mermelstein, filed five lawsuits, each asking for $50 million, against Mr. Epstein. Each 
lawsuit is entitled Jane Doe # vs. Jeffrey Epstein, despite the fact that each of the 
plaintiffs is an adult and not entitled to plead anonymously. See Tab 32, Examples of 
Federal Complaints. 
40. Mr. Herman convened press conferences contemporaneously with filing three of the 
suits. In the most recent press conference, he admitted that all of the plaintiffs lied to 
Epstein about their ages. See Tab 33, Herman Public Statement. One of the supposedly 
traumatized victims actually pled in her complaint that she returned to Epstein's house 
on many occasions for approximately three years. Another of these supposedly 
traumatized victims herself acted to introduce her friends and acquaintances to Mr. 
5 
The Justice Department rules disqualify employees from working on matters in which their former employers 
have an interest: an employee shall be disqualified for two years from participating in any particular matter 
in which a former employer is a party or represents a party if he received an extraordinary payment from 
that person prior to entering Government service. The two-year period of disqualification begins to run on the 
date that the extraordinary payment is received. 5 C.F.R. § 2635.503(a) (emphasis added). 
8 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012167 
KIRKLAND &ELLIS LLP 
Epstein. All of these plaintiffs are apparently on the above-described government 
victim list. 
FAUSA Sloman Attempts to Encourage Civil Suits and the Hiring of the Government's  
Choice of Attorney  
41. On November 27, Mr. Sloman sent an email to Mr. Epstein's attorneys stating that I 
intend to notify the victims by letter after COB Thursday [two days later]. See Tab 34, 
November 27, 2007 Email from J. Sloman to J. Lefkowitz. 
42. The morning of November 28, attorneys for Mr. Epstein faxed a letter to Assistant 
Attorney General Alice Fisher, requesting a meeting with her to discuss the impropriety 
of the USAO's encouraging civil lawsuits against Mr. Epstein under the guise of the 
terms of the Non Prosecution Agreement. See Tab 35, November 28, 2007 Letter from 
K. Starr to A. Fisher. 
43. Late in the day on November 28, Epstein's attorneys received from AUSA Villafana a 
copy of the USAO's proposed victim-notification letter that Jeff [Sloman] asked that I 
forward. See Tab 36, November 28, 2007 Email from M. Villafana to J. Lefkowitz. 
(a) The proposed victim-notification letter cited as authority the Justice for All Act 
of 2004 (which U.S. Attorney Acosta later agreed had no application to these 
circumstances). It referred to the addressees as minor victims, suggested they 
make statements in state court, that they were not entitled to make, and referred 
incorrectly to Mr. Epstein as a sexual predator. Id. 
(b) FAUSA Sloman also proposed advising recipients, in an underlined sentence that, 
You have the absolute right to select your own attorney to assist you in making 
. . . a claim for damages from [Epstein]. But that [i]f you do decide to use 
[two attorneys selected by the U.S. Attorney's special master] as your attorneys, 
Mr. Epstein will be responsible for paying attorney's fees incurred during the time 
spent trying to negotiate a settlement. Id. 
The USA() Leaks Confidential Information to the New York Times 
44. Perhaps most troubling of all, the USAO has repeatedly leaked information about this 
case to the media—including to Landon Thomas, the senior business correspondent for 
the New York Times. We have personally reviewed Mr. Thomas's own notes, and they 
are remarkably detailed about highly confidential aspects of the prosecution's theory of 
the case and the plea negotiations. 
45. Mr. Thomas's calls to the USAO initially were referred to Assistant United States 
Attorney David Weinstein. AUSA Weinstein informed Mr. Thomas that federal 
authorities were considering charging Mr. Epstein under 18 U.S.C. §§ 1591, 2422 and 
2423, and told the reporter that Mr. Epstein had both lured girls over the telephone and 
traveled in interstate commerce for the purpose of engaging in sex with minors. AUSA 
Weinstein also divulged the terms and conditions of the USAO's negotiations with Mr. 
Epstein—including the fact that Mr. Epstein had proposed house arrest with extra 
9 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012168 
KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP 
stringent conditions—which Mr. Weinstein could only have learned from FAUSA 
Sloman, AUSA Villafana or United States Attorney Acosta himself. 
46. AUSA Weinstein then asked why Mr. Epstein should ... be treated differently than 
anyone else. Mr. Thomas apparently stated that he understood that there was evidence 
that the women had lied about their ages. AUSA Weinstein replied that this was not a 
defense and that Mr. Thomas should not believe the spin of Mr. Epstein's high-priced 
attorneys. Indeed, Mr. Weinstein told Mr. Thomas that the USA() was very concerned 
about a Palm Beach editorial that questioned whether Mr. Epstein would receive a rich 
man's justice. AUSA Weinstein then stated that, in fact, Mr. Epstein doesn't have a 
defense. 
47. Mr. Epstein's attorneys learned of the call and complained to the USAO. Counsel for 
Mr. Epstein then had an in-person meeting with FAUSA Sloman and United States 
Attorney Acosta describing these leaks to the New York Times. During Mr. Thomas' next 
call to the USAO, made two weeks later, AUSA Weinstein admonished him (in the 
words of Mr. Thomas) for disclosing the contents of their prior conversation to the 
defense, and strongly reminded Mr. Thomas that AUSA Weinstein's prior comments 
about Mr. Epstein had only been hypothetical in nature. That claim is sheer nonsense: 
AUSA Weinstein had disclosed specific details of Mr. Epstein's case, including plea 
terms proposed by the defense, as revealed based on Mr. Thomas's own 
contemporaneous hand-written notes. 
48. Shortly thereafter, Mr. Sloman wrote to the defense that Mr. Thomas was given, pursuant 
to his request, non-case specific information concerning specific federal statutes. See 
Tab 37, February 27, 2008 Email from J. Sloman. Again, that claim was utterly false; 
Mr. Thomas's contemporaneous hand-written notes, reviewed by Jay Lefkowitz, confirm 
that the USAO had violated settled Department policy and ethical rules by providing 
case-specific information about the Department's legal theories and plea negotiations. 
Conclusion 
We bring these difficult and delicate matters of misconduct to your attention not to 
require any disciplinary action or review by the Office of Professional Responsibility. Although 
we have been told that some of this misconduct has been self-reported (only after we raised these 
complaints in writing), we feel confident that not all the facts were adequately presented. Rather, 
we believe that they are highly relevant to your decision whether to authorize a federal 
prosecution in this case. This pattern of overzealous prosecutorial activity strongly suggests 
improper motives in targeting Jeffrey Epstein, not because of his actions (which are more 
appropriately the subject of state prosecution), but, rather, because of who he is and who he 
knows. We also bring this pervasive pattern of misconduct to your attention because we believe 
it taints any ongoing federal prosecution. The misconduct pervades the evidence in this case. 
The offers of financial inducement to witnesses, improperly encouraged by the government, 
make their potential testimony suspect. The reliance on tainted evidence gathered by the state 
will require a careful sorting out of poisonous fruits. 
10 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012169 
KIIUCLAND &ELLIS LLP 
Most important, however, is that the extraordinary nature of this misconduct, so unusual 
in ordinary federal prosecutions, raises the gravest of concerns about why prosecutors would go 
to such lengths in a case already being prosecuted by the State and with so little, if any, federal 
concern. Accordingly, we ask you to conduct your own investigation of these matters, because 
