The Fed is accordingly expected to proceed cautiously at least initially. In part for that
reason our fixed income and FX strategists have only a modest further increase in bond
yields and the USD in their forecasts for next year. They project 10Y US Treasuries
rising to 2.65% and the USD to 1.02 vs the EUR. The dollar is expected to strengthen
more aggressively against both the GBP and the JPY, but even so the gain in the
currency overall has been frontloaded into 2016.

Our economists and strategists are cautious partly because the fiscal stimulus is
expected to have only a modest impact on growth, at around 0.5% of GDP. That is based
on the assumption that some of the proposals will get watered down and that the tax
cuts have a relatively low fiscal multiplier. Our US economists think that should the
fiscal stimulus be larger and more effective (for which read more infrastructure) then
US growth could surprise on the upside to around 3% in 2017 and 3.5% in 2018. That in
turn would mean a more aggressive Fed and in all likelihood a bigger rise in yields and

the USD.
Chart 15: BofAML sees GDP accelerating into 2018... Chart 16: ...with inflation picking up too
m Global GDP growth % m DM GDP growth % m EM GDP growth % m Global CPI inflation % m DM CPI inflation % m EM CPI inflation %
42
Ag 5.1 36 36 3.8

2015 2016F 2017F 2018F 2015 2016F 2017F 2018F

Source: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research Source: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research

Reversal: There is good taper and bad taper

The outcome of that would likely affect ECB behaviour too. Our central expectation is
for Euro Area growth of around 1 %% and inflation nudging only modestly higher. A
much more robust global economy and a stronger USD (presumably weaker EUR} would
likely put upward pressure on both of those. Indeed, in such an environment it is not
impossible to think of 10Y Treasuries pushing through 3% and the USD breaking parity
against the EUR.

That in turn would increase the pressure on the ECB to start to reverse its very loose
monetary policy stance. Tapering would then become much more likely. It would likely
push European bond yields higher too, certainly above the 65bp forecast for Bund yields
at the end of 2017.

An ECB that tapers because growth and inflation are improving would not be a bad thing
for markets. Frankly for some parts of the market, notably banks, anything which gets
the ECB away from its current policy stance back towards normality is a positive.

Indeed, the prospect of negative interest rates being reversed is the kind of thing which
Alastair Ryan (our banks strategist) lies awake at night dreaming of ( see European
Banks Strategy: repressed).

But and it is a big but, if the ECB chooses to taper because it is running out of options
or the ability to do QE that is not a good thing. Some of the hawks on the ECB would
choose to taper at the first opportunity because they never really liked the idea of QE in
the first place. A tapering at next week’s meeting even if it is couched in terms of doing
less for longer would not be good news for equity markets.

Bankof America <> :
Merrill Lynch European Equity Strategy | 01 December 2016 7

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014466
