offer or solicitation. This material is
a solicitation of derivatives business
generally, only for the purposes of, and
0 the extent it would otherwise be
subject to, 88 1.71 and 23.605 of
U.S. Commodity Exchange Act.

=F
oO

Argentina: [he information has been
rovided at your request.

Australia: This material is being
disseminated in Australia by Goldman
Sachs & Co(”GSCo}; Goldman Sachs
nternational (”GSI}; Goldman Sachs
Singapore} Pte (GSSP} and/or
Goldman Sachs (Asia) LLC (GSALLC”).
n Australia, this document, and any
access to it, is intended only fora
erson that has first satisfied Goldman
Sachs that:
© The person is a Sophisticated or
Professional Investor for the purposes
of section 708 of the Corporations Act
2001 (Cth} (Corporations Act”); or

© The person is a wholesale client for
he purposes of section 761G of the
Corporations Act.

o offer to acquire any financial product
or interest in any securities or interests
of any kind is being made to you in

his document. If financial products or
interests in any securities or interests
of any kind do become available in the
uture, the offer may be arranged by an
appropriately licensed Goldman Sachs
entity in Australia in accordance with
section 911A(2}(b} of the Corporations
Act. Any offer will only be made in
circumstances where disclosures and/or
disclosure statements are not required
under Part 6D.2 or Part 7.9 of the
Corporations Act (as relevant).

To the extent that any financial service
is provided in Australia by GSCo, GSI,
GSSP and/or GSALLC, those services
are provided on the basis that they
are provided only to “wholesale
clients”, as defined for the purposes
of the Corporations Act. GSCo, GSI,
GSSP and GSALLC are exempt from
he requirement to hold an Australian
Financial Services Licence under the
Corporations Act and do not therefore
old an Australian Financial Services
Licence. GSCo is regulated by the
Securities and Exchange Commission
under US laws; GSI is regulated by the
Financial Conduct Authority and the
Prudential Regulation Authority under
jaws in the United Kingdom; GSSP is
regulated by the Monetary Authority of
Singapore under Singaporean laws; and
GSALLC is regulated by the Securities
and Futures Commission under Hong
ong laws; all of which differ from
Australian laws. Any financial services
given to any person by GSCo, GSI,
and/or GSSP in Australia are provided
ursuant to ASIC Class Orders 03/1100;
03/1099; and 03/1102 respectively.

Bahrain: GSI represents and warrants
hat it has not made and will not make
any invitation to the public in the
ingdom of Bahrain to subscribe for
he fund. This presentation has not
een reviewed by the Central Bank of
Bahrain (CBB) and the CBB takes no

responsibility for the accuracy of the
statements or the information contained
herein, or for the performance of the
securities or related investment, nor
shall the CBB have any liability to any
person for damage or loss resulting from
reliance on any statement or information
contained herein. This presentation

will not be issued, passed to, or made
available to the public generally.

Chile: Fecha de inicio de la oferta:

(i} La presente oferta se acoge ala
Norma de Caracter General N° 336 de la
Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros
de Chile;
(ii) La presente oferta versa sobre
valores no inscritos en el Registro

de Valores o en el Registro de

Valores Extranjeros que lleva la
Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros,
por lo que los valores sobre los cuales
ésta versa, no estan sujetos a su
fiscalizacién;

(iii) Que por tratarse de valores no
inscritos, no existe la obligacién por
parte del emisor de entregar en Chile
informacién publica respecto de estos
valores; y

(iv) Estos valores no podran ser objeto
de oferta publica mientras no sean
inscritos en el Registro de Valores
correspondiente.

Dubai: Goldman Sachs International
(GSI} is authorised and regulated by
the Dubai Financial Services Authority
(DFSA’} in the DIFC and the Financial
Services Authority (FSA) authorised
by the Prudential Regulation Authority
and regulated by the Financial Conduct
Authority and Prudential Regulation
Authority in the UK. Registered address
of the DIFC branch is Level 5, Gate
Precinct Building 1, Dubai International
Financial Centre, PO Box 506588,
Dubai, UAE and registered office of GSI
in the UK is Peterborough Court, 133
Fleet Street, London EC4A 2BB, United
ingdom. This material is only intended
or use by market counterparties
and professional clients, and not
retail clients, as defined by the DFSA
Rulebook. Any products that are referred
o in this material will only be made
available to those clients falling within
he definition of market counterparties
and professional clients.

Israel: Goldman Sachs is not licensed to
rovide investment advice or investment
management services under Israeli law.

Korea: No Goldman Sachs entity, other
han Goldman Sachs (Asia) L.L.C, Goldman
Sachs Asset Management International
and Goldman Sachs Asset Management
orea Co., Ltd., is currently licensed

0 provide discretionary investmen
management services and advisory
services to clients in Korea and nothing

in this material should be construed as an
offer to provide such services except as
otherwise permitted under relevant laws
and regulations. Goldman Sachs (Asia}
LLC. is registered as a Cross-Border
Discretionary Investment Management
Company and a Cross-Border Investment
Advisory Company with the Korean
Financial Supervisory Commission, and as

a licensed corporation for, amongst other
regulated activities, advising on securities
and asset management with the Hong
Kong Securities & Futures Commission.
Goldman Sachs Asset Management
International is licensed as a Cross-Border
Discretionary Investment Management
Company and a Cross-Border Investment
Advisory Company with the Korean
Financial Supervisory Commission, as an
investment adviser with the Securities
and Exchange Commission of the United
States and for Managing Investments
with the Financial Services Authori
of the United Kingdom. Goldman Sachs
Asset Management Korea Co., Ltd.
is licensed as an Asset Management
Company in Korea and is also registered
as an Investment Advisory Company and
Discretionary Investment Management
Company with the Korean Financial
Supervisory Commission. Details of their
respective officers and major shareholders
can be provided upon request.

Oman: The information contained in
these materials neither constitutes

a public offer of securities in the
Sultanate of Oman as contemplated

by the Commercial Companies Law

of Oman (Sultani Decree 4/74} or the
Capital Market Law of Oman (Sultani
Decree 80/98} nor does it constitute an
offer to sell, or the solicitation of any
offer to buy Non-Qmani securities in the
Sultanate of Oman as contemplated by
Article 6 of the Executive Regulations
to the Capital Market Law (issue
vide Ministerial Decision No. 4/2001}.
Additionally, these materials are not
intended to lead to the conclusion of any
contract of whatsoever nature within
he territory of the Sultanate of Qman.

Panama: [hese Securities have not
een and will not be registered with the
national Securities Commission of the
Republic of Panama under Decree Law
jo. 1 of July 8, 1999 (the “Panamanian
Securities Act”) and may not be

offered or sold within Panama except

in certain limited transactions exempt
rom the registration requirements of

he Panamanian Securities Act. These
Securities do not benefit from the tax
incentives provided by the Panamanian
Securities Act and are not subject to
regulation or supervision by the National
Securities Commission of the Republic
of Panama. This material constitutes
generic information regarding Goldman
Sachs and the products and services that
it provides and should not be construed
as an offer or provision of any specific
services or products of Goldman Sachs
for which a prior authorization or license
is required by Panamanian regulators.

Peru: The products or securities
referred to herein have not been
registered before the Superintendencia
del Mercado de Valores (SMV) and are
being placed by means of a private offer.
SMV has not reviewed the information
provided to the investor.

Qatar: The investments described in
this document have not been, and will
not be, offered, sold or delivered, at any
time, directly or indirectly in the State of

Gatar in a manner that would constitute
a public offering. This document has not
een, and will not be, registered with
or reviewed or approved by the Qatar
Financial Markets Authority, the Qatar
Financial Centre Regulatory Autho|

or Qatar Central Bank and may not be
ublicly distributed. This document is
intended for the original recipient only
and must not be provided to any other
erson. It is not for general circulation
in the State of Qatar and may no
e reproduced or used for any other
urpose.

Russia: Information contained in

hese materials does not constitute

an advertisement or offering (for

he purposes of the Federal Law On
Securities Market No. 39-FZ dated 22nd
April 1996 (as amended} and the Federal
Law “On protection of rights and lawful
interests of investors in the securities
market” No. 46-FZ dated 5th March,
999 (as amended)}) of the securities,
any other financial instruments or any
inancial services in Russia and must
not be passed on to third parties or
otherwise be made publicly available

in Russia. No securities or any other
inancial instruments mentioned in this
document are intended for “offering”,
“placement” or “circulation” in Russia
as defined under the Federal Law “On
Securities Market” No. 39-FZ dated
22nd April, 1996 (as amended}.

Singapore: This document has not
been delivered for registration to

the relevant regulators or financial
supervisory bodies in Hong Kong or
Singapore, nor has its content been
reviewed or approved by any financial
supervisory body or regulatory authority.
The information contained in this
document is provided at your request
and for your information only. It does
not constitute an offer or invitation to
subscribe for securities or interests of
any kind. Accordingly, unless permitted
y the securities laws of Hong Kong

or Singapore, (i} no person may issue
or cause to be issued this document,
directly or indirectly, other than to
ersons who are professional investors,
institutional investors, accredited
investors or other approved recipients
under the relevant laws or regulations
ii} no person may issue or have in its
ossession for the purposes of issue,
his document, or any advertisement,
invitation or document relating to it,
whether in Hong Kong, Singapore or
elsewhere, which is directed at, or

he contents of which are likely to be
accessed by, the public in Hong Kong
or Singapore and (iii) the placement of
securities or interests to the public in
Hong Kong and Singapore is prohibited.
Before investing in securities or
interests of any kind, you should
consider whether the products are
suitable for you.

South Africa: Goldman Sachs does

not provide tax, accounting, investment
or legal advice to our clients, and all
clients are advised to consult with their
own advisers regarding any potential
investment/transaction. This material is

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014618
