Oakland putting the film, its heart throb star Martin Scorcese Mery! Streep
Brad Pitt, Jonah Hill and seasoned writers
Steve Zaillian and Aaron Sorkin in play.

Spielberg's epic War Horse for Dream Works
came thundering down the pike with a huge
premiere back at Alice Tully Hall, with
posters of Lincoln Center’s Tony winning
theatrical version and their indelible puppets
in the background. Steven paid homage to
legends John Ford and David Lean and the
country fell in love with a horse named Joey
and his 14 stand-ins.

Studios worked their stars to the bone.
Ironically, Harvey Weinstein’s independent
French talent who lived in Paris were not
as available as their competitors, therefore
Uggie became a superstar igniting a pet war.

Christopher Plummer, who had Best
Supporting Actor in the bag promoted his
Jack Russell, Cosmo. Diminutive Scorsese
was seen on TV on a small couch with his
large Doberman, Blackie, drooling on his
suit. Spielberg never got a chance to trot
out his lead horse Joey, previously seen in
Seabiscuit because his ravishing reddish coat
was now darkened for another role.

By December, as film critics bestowed
their own awards upon many films, Stephen
Daldry struggled to finish Extremely Loud
and Incredibly Close with a new score. There
was buzz Daldry could be editing the winner.
Producer Scott Rudin juggled his astounding
three films in one year from Daldry, Miller
and David Fincher directing Girl with the
Dragon Tattoo.

Daldry has received three consecutive
directing nominations. In January, for
his fourth film, he received a Best Picture
nomination, for a boy’s emotional journey
dealing with 9/11, and the nine films were
officially off and running. Forty-five film and Princess Charlene and
media groups handed out awards leading up of Monaco
to Oscar night. _——

Berenice Bejo
and Michel ~
Hazanaviciu ,

Michelle
Williams

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22

My airplane seatmate to LAX was
Sony Classics Michael Barker. The night
before Woody Allen had shown Michael /
To Rome With Love, his new film fy
shot in Rome and rumored to be his |
best. When Woody won the Oscar
Sunday night, for a record breaking
23rd overall nomination, he had just
finished pasta at Sette Mezzo on
Lexington Avenue with art dealer
Lorinda Ash and Soon-Yi. He went ;
home and watched the N.B.A. All-Star
game. Soon-Yi watched the awards
show on a TiVo delay in another room. | iW ae

&

\ Brad Pitt and |
Angelina Jolie David and

Victoria

Beckham Le

NS
\

{ y
HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013453
