What Can We Do About [t? 277

children? Being left out terrorizes children. Why do we allow this to
happen by creating places that foster this behavior?

Stifling of curiosity: Isn't it obvious that learning is really about
curiosity? Adults learn about things they want to learn about. Before
the age of 6, prior to school, one kid becomes a dinosaur specialist,
while another knows all about dog breeds. Outside of school, people
drive their own learning. Schools eliminate this natural behavior.

Subjects chosen for you: Why algebra, physics, economics,
and U.S. history? Because those subjects were pretty exciting to the
president of Harvard in 1892. And, if you are interested in something
else—psychology, business, medicine, computers, design? Too bad.
Those subjects weren’t taught at Harvard in 1892. Is that nuts or
what?

Classrooms: If you wanted to learn something and had the
money, wouldn’t you hire someone to be your mentor, and have
them be there for you while you tried out learning the new thing?
Isn’t that what small children have, a parent ready to teach as needed.
Classrooms make no sense as a venue for learning unless, of course,
you want to save money and have 30 (or, worse, hundreds of) students
handled by one teacher. Once you have ratios like that, you have to
teach by talking and then hoping someone was listening, so then you
have to have tests. Schools cannot work as places of learning if they
employ classrooms. And, of course, they pretty much all do.

Grades: Any professor can tell you that students are pretty much
concerned with whether what you are telling them will be on the
test and what they might do for extra credit. In other words, they
want a good grade. If you tell them that 2 + 2 = 5 and it will be on
the test, they will tell you that 2 + 2 = 5 if it means getting a good
grade. Parents do not give grades to children and employers do not
give grades to employees. They judge their work and progress for sure,
but not by assigning numbers to a report card.

Certification: We all know why people attend college. They do so

primarily to say they are college graduates so they can get a job or go
on to a professional school. Most don’t care all that much about what

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023963
