Fugitive | 107

tacts with Russia while still in Hong Kong. When Lana Lam asked
Snowden on June 12, 2013, whether he had already requested asy-
lum from the Russian government, he deferred, saying, “My only
comment is that I am glad there are governments that refuse to be
intimidated by great power.” The Russian government was clearly
not intimidated by the threats of reprisals by the United States, as
the Obama administration would learn after Snowden’s arrival in
Russia on June 23. Snowden could only have known that with cer-
tainty on June 12 if he had been in contact with Russian officials
prior to his interview with Lam.

If Putin’s own description of Snowden’s interactions with the
Russians in Hong Kong is to be believed, the decision to facilitate
Snowden’s escape to Russia had been kicked all the way up the Rus-
sian chain of command to Putin. Presumably, this decision-making
process began earlier than June 21, when Snowden was said to have
gone to the consulate. But how much earlier? Because Snowden had
arrived in Hong Kong on May 20, his contacts with Russian offi-
cials could have occurred in May. Such a contact with the Russians

© would fit with Snowden’s telling Gellman on May 24 that he needed ®
his help in dealing with the diplomatic mission of a country that
Snowden did not identify.

In any case, Putin said an American “agent of the special services”
had contacted Russian diplomats because he wanted assistance. The
agent, Snowden, of course, needed assistance to escape from Hong
Kong. The decision to accept him in Russia, given the international
ramifications, would have to be made at a much higher level than the
Russian mission in Hong Kong.

Nine days before Snowden boarded Aeroflot Flight SU213 to
Moscow on June 23, the United States had filed a criminal complaint
against him. It had also officially alerted Interpol when it unsealed
the complaint on June 21. It had invalidated his U.S. passport except
to return to America (although he still had it in his possession at
the Hong Kong airport). Because by this time he was the most
famous visitor in Hong Kong, his passage through passport control
on June 23 might have reflected the acquiescence of the Hong Kong
authorities to the reported request of China to be rid of Snowden by
that date.

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 107 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019595
