Best Relative Value Trades

Athanasios Vamvakidis Erjon Satko

MLI (UK) MLI (UK)
athanasios.vamvakidis@baml.com erjon.satko@baml.com

Arko Sen Shusuke Yamada, CFA >>
MLI (UK) Merrill Lynch (Japan)
arko.sen@baml.com shusuke.yamada@baml.com

Relative value in a macro world
« Long EUR/JPY: data and positioning supportive; the Bo) has more tools to address
sustainability challenges than the ECB.

¢ Long RUB/KRW: US fiscal expansion suggests more upside for reflation sensitive
Russia than interest rate sensitive Korea.

¢ Sell German 2y vs OIS, buy 10y vs OIS: fade the impressive richening of short-
maturity German govies.

Long EUR/JPY

In a recent report we argued that EUR/JPY could appreciate in the months ahead as the
Bo) gains credibility and the ECB has to deal with QE constraints. Since then, the
EUR/JPY has appreciated by 3%, but we see more upside. Although we expect the ECB
to extend QE by a further six months in December, we see more difficulties next year.
Extending QE will require difficult decisions, such as relaxing the capital key or buying
below the depo rate. QE tapering is therefore a risk and the market could start testing
the ECB. Even if Draghi succeeds, the Euro could strengthen in the meantime. In
contrast, the Bo)’s new framework should address the sustainability challenges that
Kuroda faced this year, and allows more fiscal stimulus by keeping the government’s
borrowing costs at zero. The ECB cannot do this, in our view. We have been short
EUR/JPY this year, as we were expecting the ECB to extend QE, while the Bo) faced
challenges.

Data also suggests further EUR/JPY upside. Relative GDP growth would be consistent
with a stronger EUR/JPY, as the Eurozone has been gaining momentum, while growth in
Japan remains weak (Chart 34). Relative central bank balance sheets give the same
signal (Chart 35). Positioning is also in support, as our analysis suggests a short EUR/JPY
market position (Chart 36).

If the external environment improves, we think Japanese investors are likely to be JPY
sellers again as the hedge ratio and hedge costs have both risen. One of key factors of
the yen’s appreciation this year might have been that, as the USD/JPY fell, institutional
investors implemented additional FX-hedging to their existing forex positions as part of
their risk management, which caused the USD/JPY to fall further and supply-demand to
worsen in a vicious circle. However, this mechanism probably ran its course when the
USD/JPY reached 100 on the Brexit vote as we argued in $/¥’s eventual surge: Buy
Nikkei O06 September 2016. In fact, the USD/JPY has stopped falling during Tokyo
trading hours since the summer. Based on the decline of foreign yields and higher hedge
costs, hedged US Treasuries and German bunds had lost nearly all of their attraction for
Japanese investors by the summer. US and German 10yr government bond yields sank to
about 0% after being hedged to the JPY, reflecting that downward pressure on yields
had reached the limit. Institutional investors are expected to increase their exposure to
unhedged foreign bonds in H2 FY16. Investor behavior is especially liable to change in
April, when the new fiscal year starts.

BankofAmerica <2”

18 Global Rates, FX & EM 2017 Year Ahead | 16 November 2016 .
Merrill Lynch

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014748
