negotiations have been underway, with significant progress attained on the
majority of the chapters of the Cyprus problem as a result of the intensive
efforts put forward by the two sides in reaching convergences.
Furthermore, with the recent agreement on the Joint Declaration of
February 11, 2014, an important milestone in the negotiations has been
reached, which clearly provides for the broad outline of a solution and the
main principles upon which the new partnership will be established.
Hence, the announcement of the Joint Declaration triggered a very
positive atmosphere that was further fostered by the support of a wide
spectrum of actors on both sides as well as the extensive espousal received
by the international community.

The Far-Reaching Consequences of the Problem

In light of this promising political climate on the island, combined with
the existence of some external factors that are currently at play, there is an
historic opportunity that should not be missed in bringing the long-
overdue Cyprus problem to a closure. The recent developments in our
region strongly signal a pressing need in this direction. It is beyond doubt
that the Cyprus problem holds back the potential of cooperation in a
broader context. Since its conception, the relations between Turkey and
Greece have been negatively affected by it. A full-scale rapprochement
between the two countries has been held hostage to the chronic status quo
on the island. In the course of time, this has been exploited as an excuse to
oppose Turkey’s bid for EU membership through the blocking of some
chapters in her accession talks. EU-NATO strategic cooperation has also
been hampered in a similar fashion due to the non-existence of diplomatic
relations between South Cyprus and Turkey. As a NATO member, Turkey
has proven to be an indispensable strategic partner of the Transatlantic
cooperation since the inception of the Cold War. Although a NATO
Council decision in late 2002 enabled the participation of the non-EU
members of NATO in the European Security and Defense Policy (ESDP),
the Greek Cypriot side has been blocking Turkey’s involvement both in
the ESDP and her prospective membership in the European Defense
Agency (EDA). As a result, no meaningful dialogue can practically be
established between the EU and NATO, creating a situation whereby the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031584
