Some Trumpers, particularly those with over-the-transom access to the president,
believed that he had been tricked into some form of very-much-not-Trump submission.
Roger Stone, one of those people whose calls Kelly was now shielding the president from,
spread the dark scenario that Mattis, McMaster, and Kelly had agreed that no military
action would ever be taken unless the three were in accord—and that at least one of them
would always remain in Washington if the others were away.

After Kelly dispatched Scaramucci, his two immediate issues, now on the table in
Bedminster, were the president’s relatives and Steve Bannon. One side or the other
obviously had to go. Or perhaps both should go.

It was far from clear whether a White House chief of staff who saw his function as
establishing command process and enforcing organizational hierarchy—directing a
decision funnel to the commander in chief—could operate effectively or even exist in a
White House where the commander in chief’s children had special access and overriding
influence. As much as the president’s daughter and son-in-law were now offering slavish
regard for the new command principals, they would, surely, by habit and temperament,
override Kelly’s control of the West Wing. Not only did they have obvious special
influence with the president, but important members of the staff saw them as having this
juice, and hence believed that they were the true north of West Wing advancement and
power.

Curiously, for all their callowness, Jared and Ivanka had become quite a fearsome
presence, as feared by others as the two of them feared Bannon. What’s more, they had
become quite accomplished infighters and leakers—they had front-room and back-channel
power—although, with great woundedness, they insisted, incredibly, that they never
leaked. “If they hear someone talking about them, because they are so careful about their
image and have crafted this whole persona—it’s like anyone who tries to pierce it or say
something against it is like a big problem,” said one senior staffer. “They get very upset
and will come after you.”

On the other hand, while “the kids” might make Kelly’s job all but impossible, keeping
Bannon on board didn’t make a lot of sense, either. Whatever his gifts, he was a hopeless
plotter and malcontent, bound to do an end run around any organization. Besides, as the
Bedminster hiatus—working or otherwise—began, Bannon was once more on the
president’s shit list.

The president continued to stew about The Devil’s Bargain, the book by Joshua Green
that gave Bannon credit for the election. Then, too, while the president tended to side with
Bannon against McMaster, the campaign to defend McMaster, supported by Jared and
Ivanka, was having an effect. Murdoch, enlisted by Jared to help defend McMaster, was
personally lobbying the president for Bannon’s head. Bannonites felt they had to defend
Bannon against an impulsive move by the president: so now, not only did they brand
McMaster as weak on Israel, they persuaded Sheldon Adelson to lobby Trump—Bannon,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020102
