In re Terrorist Attacks on September 11, 2001, 392 F.Supp.2d 539 (2005)

10 A.L.R. Fed. 2d 789

To establish personal jurisdiction based on a
conspiracy theory under New York’s long-arm
statute, plaintiffs must make a prima facie
showing of conspiracy and allege facts
warranting an inference that defendant was a
member of the conspiracy. NY.McKinney’s
CPLR 302(a)(2).

3 Cases that cite this headnote

118] Conspiracy
@Nature and Elements in General
Conspiracy
Pleading

To plead a valid cause of action for conspiracy,
a plaintiff must allege the primary tort and four
elements: (1) a corrupt agreement between two
or more persons, (2) an overt act in furtherance
of the agreement, (3) the parties’ intentional
participation in the furtherance of a plan or
purpose, and (4) the resulting damage or mjury.

Cases that cite this headnote

(161 Courts
@ Conspiracy and co-conspirators

To warrant the inference that a defendant was a
member of the conspiracy, as would establish
personal jurisdiction under New York’s
long-arm statute, plaintiffs must show that (1)
defendant had an awareness of the effects in
New York of its activity, (2) the activity of the
co-conspirators in New York was to the benefit
of the out-of-state conspirators, and (3) the
co-conspirators acting in New York acted at the
direction or under the control of or at the request
of or on behalf of the out-of-state defendant.
N.Y.McKinney’s CPLR 302(a)(2).

3 Cases that cite this headnote

[7 Constitutional Law
WESTLAW

[18]

[19]

Non-residents in general

The exercise of personal jurisdiction must
comport with due process requirements, Le.,
there must be minimum contacts and the
exercise of jurisdiction must be reasonable.
U.S.C.A. Const.Amends. 5, 14.

1 Cases that cite this headnote

Federal Courts

Related contacts and activities; specific
jurisdiction

Federal Courts

Business contacts and activities; transacting
or doing business

Specific jurisdiction over a nonresident
defendant exists when the forum exercises
jurisdiction over the defendant in a suit arising
out of defendant’s contacts with that forum;
general jurisdiction is based on a defendant’s
general business contacts with the forum.

Cases that cite this headnote

Federal Courts
@ Terrorism

Two officials of Saudi Arabian government did
not have such minimum contacts with the
United States as to support a finding of general
personal jurisdiction, in action alleging their
decisions regarding distribution of humanitarian
relief funds provided support for terrorist
organization responsible for September 11th
attacks, despite alleged donations of money to
established humanitarian organizations that
might have been diverting funds to support
terrorists and despite one official’s visit to the
White House twelve years before the attacks.
Fed.Rules Civ.Proc.Rule 12(b)(2), 28 U.S.C.A.

1 Cases that cite this headnote

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017907
