Osborne

¢ Top editors and columnists: These engagements should be informal
at the outset, and preferably at dinners, lunches and events which aren't
built around you. The focus should be on serious business and financial
journalists who are more interested to hear your opinions on the world
economy than to probe tabloid headlines. Those editors and columnists |
tend to single out are Gerald Baker and Thorold Barker at the Journal,
Lionel Barber and John Gapper at the Financial Times, Andrew Sorkin
and Hugo Lindgren at the Times, John Micklethwait and Matthew Bishop
at the Economist, Josh Tyrangiel at Businessweek, as well as a handful
of international correspondents. Ideally, the first few encounters would be
at dinners and events that we organize in New York and internationally,
which could be followed by dinners at your house in due course.

¢ International political circles: Much more is to be gained by increasing
your profile among the international political class than the domestic U.S.
political class. The global nature of your business, the importance of the
growth markets and the puritanism of American politics are good reasons
for this. In our view, you should be spending time with European, Middle
Eastern, Asian and Latin American political and business leaders — some
of which you of course already do on a daily basis but in a concerted way
through such gatherings as, the Ambrosetti Forum, the Abu Dhabi Media
Summit, Bilderberg and the BRICS Summit. | see that you are part of the
Trilateral Commission and this is in a similar vein. The advantage offered
by these gatherings over private meetings is that it demonstrates vividly
to all the other opinion leaders the unique position you occupy among the
international business elite.

Science and technology

The passion and commitment you have for supporting scientific and technological
research is extremely helpful in two ways. First, when spending time with editors
and columnists, it is important to focus their attention on areas of your choice, not
theirs. Not only is your funding of these disciplines an interesting subject, but the
special rapport that you enjoy with a number of outstanding scientists. This helps
to showcase your unique position, and acts as a powerful character reference, as
did the Alan Dershowitz quotes in your 2005 Vanity Fair profile.

Second, since it is intrinsically difficult for people to understand the nature of your
business, it is all the more important that there is an aspect of your life that is well
understood and which can be proactively communicated. Philanthropy can be the
vehicle for this, and your highly targeted philanthropy even more so, because the
impact is quantifiable. A lot can be accomplished with the science and technology
press in the first instance, who are interested in the serious side to your work and
are uninterested in the tabloid headlines.

Some of the necessary steps are:
¢ Take down the Jeffrey Epstein Science and Jeffrey Epstein Philanthropy

websites, and build a new site from scratch which explains your interests,
your past funding, the scientists you support and the breakthroughs

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030427
