SECTION 8

Technology and Research

Technology transfers between nations exist on a spectrum of legitimacy. In many
developing economies, multinational corporations willingly agree to skills and technology
transfer arrangements in exchange for the right to operate. Governments support these
measures in the hopes of furthering economic development. Transfers cross the threshold
into illegitimacy when coercion, misappropriation, theft, or espionage are deployed with
the effect of undermining a company’s, and ultimately its home country’s, economic
competitiveness. China’s expropriation of American technology is an example of how
it leverages its influence among universities, corporations, and diaspora communities to
further strategic objectives. This section reviews the targets of China’s expropriation efforts,
the state and nontraditional collectors involved, and concludes with recommendations
for how the United States can better defend against this phenomenon. It is important to
note that not all expropriation of intellectual property occurs at the explicit direction
of the government and that China is not the sole country targeting the United States.
Nonetheless, China—whether at the level of the state or individual—is considered the
most serious offender.

While Chinese cyberthreats and clandestine spying against the United States dominate
the public discourse, a far more serious threat is posed by China’s informal or “extralegal”
transfers of US technology and IP theft.! Operating under the radar, these quiet diversions
of US technical know-how are carried out by groups and individuals in the United States,
whose support for China erodes America’s technological edge and ability to compete

in international markets. These groups are managed by a professional cadre of Chinese
government and government-associated science and technology transfer specialists who
facilitate intellectual property “exchanges” through a maze of venues. They target specific
advanced technologies drawn from China’s industrial planning priorities (e.g., Made in
China 20257) such as semiconductors, robotics, next-generation information technologies
(e.g., big data, smart grid, internet of things), aviation, artificial intelligence, and electric
vehicles. As a result of their efforts, a commission convened by the National Bureau

of Asian Research concluded that IP theft, primarily from China, costs the American
economy hundreds of billions of dollars each year, with significant impact on employment
and innovation.* Former commander of United States Cyber Command and Director of
the National Security Agency General Keith Alexander was even more grave when he
asserted the ongoing theft of IP by China represents “the greatest transfer of wealth in
human history.”*

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020580
