right out of the box. you said you preferred not. As you said ,I have produced results to date, far in
excess of even my own exalted opinion of my projections. I have devoted a monumental amount of my
limited amount of time-- way, way in excess of our agreement. I will be fair, I am willing to roll in
the amount still outstanding from last year if that helps .. However, As my best student , and my only
one, you are now capable of doing most, if not all, of the required work yourself. I can put my
whiteboard away when you come to eat and just have fun, trade stories,. share moments ideas etc.. I
am of course always available to guide you as a friend if you choose that route . always . It will take a
great deal of your time , but you will not have to spend any more money on mine .

We are scheduled to meet fri at 430 , I leave at 5 am sat morning.

Date: Wed, Nov 4, 2015 at 4:45 AM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella <r

okay, its time for you to decide how you would like to move forward. ( fyi get your money from the
1031 . the screw up is only one of many,) If you decide to move foward on decanting. phaidon, note
basis estate update , each requires many carefully orchestrated detailed steps. and precision . there are
hundreds of millions in saving if done correctly and a huge mess if not. Ifyou want me and my
colleagues to do it , oversee it paper it and guide it, you should tell me. It is a big undertaking . If not ,
ok .. Brad and your crew can do it. I will have no real further involvement apart from confirming the
outcome of my proposed structure, I will not risk the admonition of- they thought you said, they thought
you meant, they understood it to be. but they said you said, (ie ,I asked at our meeting that accounting
be done properly for bens house , what came back was ada thought that I meant that we needed to go
back to the 97 trust and give him a full third party accounting of where his money had gone??!! I kid you
not). I dont think brad should talk to jane heller without a fully fleshed out plan in place and even then it
should be you.

Date: Wed, Nov 11, 2015 at 10:59 AM
Subject:

To: Richard Joslin <>, Joe Avantario <I Brad Wechsler

ea

lets calculate the exact payoff amount for the leon note as of nov 30 ,DEC1
space get folded in to phaidon. . middle cos disolved.? 2 collapse topco etc
open bank accounts for apoo
interest will be approx 50k per day . look at deduction.

note payoff docs- notaries . new docs. releases? , accountings? disclosures? ( gaming ? ) art
partnership . renew. will? repaper lease guarantees? macfarlanes. ? do we pay down 10m. of plane. ?
proposal for airplane , 91 , 135. exec , jet. .? remove debra. from plane?

dec 31. 1) does art

2

Date: Wed, Nov 11, 2015 at 11:00 AM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella < pe

we should discuss e trust and j black trust. , brad buying phaidon. artspace folding ? plane/ boat.
foundation.

Date: Wed, Nov 11, 2015 at 9:09 PM
Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella <a >

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023211
