Case 9:08-cv-80736-KAM Document 319-1 Entered on FLSD Docket 03/24/2015 Page 33 of
34

Thomas E. Scott, Jr., Esq.

Re: Edwards and Cassell v. Dershowitz
February 25, 2015

Page 5

test the accuracy of those statements and to explore the full extent of the personal
relationship he has had with Jeffrey Epstein.

Evasive Answers

The response to Interrogatory #2 is a typical example of an evasive response. Rather
than address the substance of the questions posed, the Defendant engages in a four page
diatribe about the alleged impropriety of naming him in a CVRA filing on behalf of
Jane Doe #3. If that is the only improper conduct in which the Defendant contends
Bradley Edwards has engaged, then the Defendant is obliged to say so.

Interrogatory #3 asks for the specific content of statements and the names of every
witness to the making of the statements. We get a vague reference to “such comments”
and references to the inability to “recall all of the people.” Not a single witness’ name
is disclosed. If the Defendant is unable to identify a single person he is obliged to
unequivocally say so.

Refusing to Provide Substantive Responses Until Jane Doe #3 is Deposed

This objection has absolutely no legal basis and fails to recognize that this is a
defamation action against Dershowitz and not Mr. Dershowitz’s defamation action
against Jane Doe #3. This action is absolutely not dependent on the accuracy of the
statements made by Jane Doe #3, although the Plaintiffs were and are confident of the
accuracy of those statements.

Objecting Because You Think We Already Know the Answers

See for example the Response to Interrogatory #13. There is no legal basis for refusing
to provide information because the Defendant believes the Plaintiff already knows the
answer or has alternative sources to ascertain some or all of the information requested.
An admission from an opposing party carries legal significance that other evidence does
not have. We are entitled to Dershowitz’s sworn responses regardless of what flight
logs purport to show.

Incomplete Answers
See, for example, Interrogatory #15. A question that asks for names, addresses, and

telephone numbers, is not properly responded to if all we get is, “Thomas and Joanne
Ashe, as well as Defendant’s wife and daughter.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014116
