Date:
Time:

Case

7/13/06 PALM BEACH POLICE DEPARTMENT
9227255 Incident Report Program: CMS301L

No. . . . : 1-05-000368 (Continued)
01-04-06, for telephone number HM. 9 vThe phone number is
registered to Dr Perry Bard, from West Palm Beach. Dr. Bard isa
chiropractor and has an office located 4275 Okeechobee Blvd in West
Palm Beach. The cellular number is Dr Bard's personal cellular
number.

On January 9, 2006, Det.’ Caristo and I traveled tol —;i—C*~C—C Jia
Palm Beach Gardens in an attempt to locate Johanna Sjoberg, who had 66
been previously seen on the property and identified through her —
Florida Drivers License and Florida license Plate. A business card
was left for her to return my_call. We then traveled to

and located agreed to
speak with us and in a private room within the school provided us a
taped statement.

During the statement,[ _—__—Jadvised that when she was fifteen or
sixteen years of age, she was taken to Jeffrey Epstein's house by her
associate, stated this occurred late May 2004

or early June 2004. She was told she could model lingerie for money

for a wealthy Palm Beacher. She remembered they traveled by yellow

cab from their residence in West Palm Beach to Epstein's house. She
remembered. encountering Epstein at the front door during the evening b6
hours. b7c

He introduced himself and brought them into the kitchen so that the
chef could prepare something for them to eat. After having a meal,

and Epstein brought | master to a master bedroom which
had a large bathroom. She observed a large style shower, sauna and
there was a large massage bed also in the bathroom. Epstein entered a
room within the bathroom and came out wearing only a towel.

said they would provide a massage on his feet. asked why they
are doing this. told her this was part of the routine and told
her to rub his legs and calves. Epstein had told to get

continued rubbing Epstein's calves_and feet. At
then left the room leaving there
by herself. Epstein told to get comfortable. removed
her blouse and pants and stayed in her panties. stated she
was not wearing a bra. She believed she was wearing thong panties.
Epstein turned over onto his back and began touching her. Epstein
touched her breasts and began touching her in her vagina area.

Epstein instructed her to rub his chest and rub his nipples. [LJ
stated the touching consisted over the panties on the first time; he
stroked her vagina but stayed on top of the panties. During the first
massage, she stated Epstein was stroking her and began masturbating
himself at the same time. He put his hands under the towel and
appeared as to masturbate himself however she never saw his penis.

She continued rubbing his chest until he grabbed her and pulled her
closer to him. He appeared to have climaxed because after he pulled
her closer to him the massage was,over. Epstein had told her that
there was two hundred dollars for her on the dresser. He told her
that she could not tell anyone what happened at the house or bad
things could happen. [-___| stated she went to Epstein's house three

comfortable.
Epstein's direction,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019026
