consent. Not a partner who says, Okay, I guess, in a bored tone, but doesn't actively
say no. Not a partner who is silent and non-reactive, but doesn't actively stop you when
you start having sex with them. Not a partner who seems hesitant, or anxious, or
confused. Enthusiastic consent means an enthusiastic partner: one who is responding
passionately, kissing you back, saying things like Yes or Oh my God, don't stop”... or
a partner who talks to you ahead of time about what will happen, as many BDSMers and
sex workers do, and knows how to safeword or otherwise get out of the situation if you do
something they don't like.

It's worth noting that there are critiques within feminism of the concept of enthusiastic
consent. For example, some feminist sex workers point out that when they have sex for
money, their consent is not exactly enthusiastic, but they still feel that their consent is
real consent, and that their choices must be respected. The same goes for some asexual
people. Asexuality is commonly defined as not feeling sexual attraction to others, but
some asexual people have romantic relationships with other people in which they have
sex entirely to satisfy their partner, and some of them have said that they don't feel
included by feminist discussions of enthusiastic consent.

Hey, even some of my non-asexual, non-sex worker friends have problems with the idea
that they aren't really consenting unless they're super-enthusiastic about the sexual act
at hand. A married friend once commented wryly that if she and her husband always
demanded 100% enthusiastic consent from each other, then the marriage would fall apart.
But as we continued to discuss it, she and her husband both agreed that they have zero
problem with the situation as it stands.

I don't want to sweep those critiques under the rug. I figure that as long as everyone's
communicating about the situation openly, and working to keep things relatively low-
pressure, then consent is likely to happen, even if it's not perfectly “enthusiastic.” I've had
extensive debates on the topic with other feminists, though, and I often seek more,
because honing consent theory is one of my favorite things!

All this having been said: the concept of enthusiastic consent has been very helpful for
me personally. I know that it's also been helpful for an enormous number of other people
who are trying to understand boundaries in their sexual relationships. I absolutely believe
that enthusiastic consent is an important and useful standard, and I do my best to observe
that standard as much as I can in my own relationships. So, while I think some critiques
are reasonable, I also think that the idea of enthusiastic consent is the best baseline
assumption to start these conversations... if not to end them.

7) In practice, as long as everyone involved is having consensual fun, criticism is
secondary. Practically speaking, consent is the most important thing; from a pragmatic
standpoint, the question of whether sexuality arises from biology or culture doesn't matter
nearly as much. (I find the question of whether BDSM can be categorized as a sexual
orientation to be more politically and theoretically interesting than practically important.)

Understanding sexual biology or culture may help us grasp some of the complexities of
consent. For example, people often have trouble saying no to things directly: when was
the last time you explicitly said no when you didn't want to do something? Which of
the following exchanges is more likely:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018484
