Eye on the Market | June 14, 2011 J.P Morgan

Topics: On lessons learned running the Stratford Inn

In short, “one-size-fits-all” rules for business ignore the reality of the market place. And setting thresholds for
regulatory guidelines at artificial levels--e.g., 50 employees or more, $500,000 in sales--takes no account of other
realities, such as profit margins, labor intensive vs. capital intensive businesses, and local market economics.

The problem we face as legislators is: Where do we set the bar so that it is not too high to clear? I don't have
the answer. I do know that we need to start raising these questions more often.

So, there you have it, one of the more remarkable epiphanies in American politics: a paean to entrepreneurship and
government restraint from one of its most progressive members. Public epiphanies like this are rare, but there have been
others. Last year, Al Gore conceded that first-generation ethanol was “not good policy” given its low energy conversion ratios,
and said he had supported ethanol out of “a certain fondness for the farmers in the state of lowa because I was about to run for
president.* In 2008, former Fed Chair Greenspan conceded that his Ayn Rand philosophies regarding regulations and
shareholder self-interest were flawed. Perhaps the most famous epiphany was from Robert McNamara, Secretary of Defense
and one of the principal architects of the Vietnam War. In 1995, he conceded that he was “wrong, terribly wrong” about the
war. George McGovern was one of the war’s fiercest opponents, saying on the floor of the Senate, “I'm tired of old men
dreaming up wars for young men to fight”.

There may be no magic elixir of policies to speed the adjustment the US faces. Look at it this way: the US is trying the mega-
stimulus route, while the UK has accelerated its fiscal austerity program. Yet both countries are struggling with below-trend
growth and employment. Perhaps after a debt binge, there are no easy answers, other than time. What to do next? McGovern’s
article suggests that an overly interventionist public sector may be the wrong answer, given the unintended consequences.

US and UK still searching for answers
Total household , non-financial corporate, federal and municipal debt,

percentof GDP
300%

280%
260%
240%
220% US
200%
180%
160%

140%
1987 1990 1993 1996 1999 2002 2005 2008
Source: Federal Reserve, Office for National Statistics. UK Data as of 2009.

UK

Michael Cembalest
Chief Investment Officer

The material contained herein is intended as a general market commentary. Opinions expressed herein are those of Michael Cembalest and may differ from those of other J.P. Morgan
employees and affiliates. This information in no way constitutes J.P. Morgan research and should not be treated as such. Further, the views expressed herein may differ from that
contained in J.P. Morgan research reports. The above summary/prices/quotes/statistics have been obtained from sources deemed to be reliable, but we do not guarantee their accuracy or
completeness, any yield referenced is indicative and subject to change. Past performance is not a guarantee of future results. References to the performance or character of our portfolios
generally refer to our Balanced Model Portfolios constructed by J.P. Morgan. It is a proxy for client performance and may not represent actual transactions or investments in client
accounts. The model portfolio can be implemented across brokerage or managed accounts depending on the unique objectives of each client and is serviced through distinct legal entities
licensed for specific activities. Bank, trust and investment management services are provided by J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A, and its affiliates. Securities are offered through J.P.
Morgan Securities LLC (JPMS), Member NYSE, FINRA and SIPC. Securities products purchased or sold through JPMS are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(CFDIC); are not deposits or other obligations of its bank or thrift affiliates and are not guaranteed by its bank or thrift affiliates; and are subject to investment risks, including possible
loss of the principal invested. Not all investment ideas referenced are suitable for all investors. These views may not be suitable for all investors. Speak with your J.P. Morgan
Representative concerning your personal situation. This material is not intended as an offer or solicitation for the purchase or sale of any financial instrument. Private Investments may
engage in leveraging and other speculative practices that may increase the risk of investment loss, can be highly illiquid, are not required to provide periodic pricing or valuations to
investors and may involve complex tax structures and delays in distributing important tax information. Typically such investment ideas can only be offered to suitable investors through a
confidential offering memorandum which fully describes all terms, conditions, and risks.

IRS Circular 230 Disclosure: JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its affiliates do not provide tax advice. Accordingly, any discussion of U.S. tax matters contained herein (including any
attachments) is not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, in connection with the promotion, marketing or recommendation by anyone unaffiliated with JPMorgan Chase &

Co. of any of the matters addressed herein or for the purpose of avoiding U.S. tax-related penalties. Note that J.P. Morgan is not a licensed insurance provider.

© 2011 JPMorgan Chase & Co. All rights reserved.

® As reported by Reuters, Gerald Wynn, November 22, 2010.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030012
