are paid $40,000 per year and get two weeks of vacation per year ($40,000 divided by [40 hours per
week x 50 = 2,000] = $20/hour). Estimate your hourly income by cutting the last three zeroes off of your
annual income and halving the remaining number (e.g., $50,000/year p $25/hour.

2. Estimate the amount of time you will save by grouping similar tasks together and batching them, and
calculate how much you have earned by multiplying this hour number by your per-hour rate ($20 here):

1 x per week: 10 hours = $200
Ix pertwoweeks: 20 hours = $400

1 x per month: 40 hours = S800

3. Test each of the above batching frequencies and determine how much problems cost to fix in each
period. If the cost is less than the above dollar amounts, batch even further apart.

For example, using our above math, if I check e-mail once per week and that results in an average loss
of two sales per week, totaling $80 in lost profit, I will continue checking once per week because $200
(10 hours of time) minus $80 is still a $120 net gain, not to mention the enormous benefits of completing
other main tasks in those 10 hours. If you calculate the financial and emotional benefit of completing just
one main task (such as landing a major client or completing a life-changing trip), the value of batching is
much more than the per-hour savings.

If the problems cost more than hours saved, scale back to the next-less-frequent batch schedule. In this
case, I would drop from once per week to twice per week (not daily) and attempt to fix the system so that
I can return to once per week. Do not work harder when the solution is working smarter. I have batched
both personal and business tasks further and further apart as [ve realized just how few real problems
come up. Some of my scheduled batches in 2007 were e-mail (Mondays 10:00 A.M.), phone (completely
eliminated), laundry (every other Sunday at 10:00 P.M), credit cards and bills (most are on automatic
payment, but I check balances every second Monday after e-mail), strength training (every 4th day for
30 minutes), etc.

Empowerment Failure: Rules and Readjustment

The vision is really about empowering workers, giving them all the information about what’s
going on so they can do a lot more than they’ve done in the past.

—BILL GATES, cofounder of Microsoft, richest man in the world

Eb inpowermen failure refers to being unable to accomplish a task without first obtaining permission or
information. It is often a case of being micromanaged or micromanaging someone else, both of which
consume your time.

For the employee, the goal is to have full access to necessary information and as much independent
decision-making ability as possible. For the entrepreneur, the goal is to grant as much information and
independent decision-making ability to employees or contractors as possible.

Customer service is often the epitome of empowerment failure, and a personal example from
BrainQUICKEN illustrates just how serious but easily solved the problem can be.

In 2002, I had outsourced customer service for order tracking and returns but still handled product-

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013862
