equality either. Partly this is because of something Janelle spotted: The remarkable
advantage, the wealth and opportunity, that accrues to the people and nations and
businesses that can compress space and time. Die Ware liebt das Geld, Marx
famously wrote: Commodities love money. Speed is now the decisive commodity -
and it loves money. (The feeling is mutual.) Velocity lets us achieve that ancient goal
of doing more with less. The race for speed lights something competitive: The faster
I go, the faster you feel you need to go, the more powerfully you feel your slowness.

The centripetal charm of acceleration, the way that speed attracts us, and then
makes us demand even more speed, honestly surprised the earliest architects of
steamships and rail and airlines and roads. They under-guessed how popular their
tools of space-time compression would be. Surely the maximum number of people
who would ever want to zip from LA to New York would be about 1,000 per week,
jet airline pioneers assumed. Would more than a few hundred engineers really want
their own computers, Gordon Moore asked at a dinner party shortly after Intel
proposed putting his chips in the first PCs. Yes, it turned out. Billions more. Highway
designers call this surprise “induced traffic”: The faster a highway, the more people
pile onto it. Urban planners in Los Angeles in the 1950s looked at their packed,
congested roads and thought they could fix them by adding lanes. They embarked
on construction programs, tore up the transportation network that girded the city
and built a new one featuring optimistic 20-lane highways as wide as a football field
and flat as a plate. Traffic got worse.

Say’s famous economic law that “supply creates its own demand” seems especially
fulfilled in an age where velocity is so valuable. Speed too creates its own demand.
The faster any one piece of the network starts to rattle and move, the more
profoundly we notice how slow the leftover bits are. We want them accelerated too.
Total network bandwidth grew by an heroic factor of 1000 times between 2005 and
2010. Speed? It increased by just 20 times. Induced traffic.

What is it, exactly, that we’re so hungry for? The extreme end of fast connectivity is
what computer systems designers call “statefulness” —- a word that has nothing to do
with states like nations, but rather with the condition of a connection, the “state” it
is in. Early electrical circuits were either in a charged or uncharged “state”, switched
on or off. Today when we talk about a “stateful” connection, we mean a link that we
maintain, always on. It’s the difference between a video call and a letter, between
looking at your wife here and now (a “stateful connection”) and a photograph of her
(“stateless”). Real-time everywhere connection doesn’t merely kill distance; it
attacks delay too. Older generations would “break state” when they left family at
home or friends at school with a “see you later.” Our generation? “See you always”.
We never quite leave. Technology permits us to remain in constant touch this way,
to neve break state. “We don’t have a word for the opposite of loneliness, but if we
did, that’s what I’d want in life,” the milenial writer Marina Keegan wrote ina
famous essay that captured more than a little of this zeitgeist. “More than finding the
right job or city or spouse - I’m scared of losing this web that we're in. This elusive,

142

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018374
