2D

territories. Even so, the PA remained highly dependent on U.S. aid,
receiving more than $400 million per year from Washington, and it
was unclear whether the PA and its president, Fatah leader Mahmoud
Abbas, could survive without it.

As a result, the U.S. Congress responded to Hamas’ 2006 electoral
victory by passing the Palestinian Anti-Terrorism Act (PATA), which
conditioned assistance to the PA on a presidential certification that
Hamas did not effectively control any “ministry, agency, or
instrumentality” of the PA and made “demonstrable progress” toward
five benchmarks related to transparency, democratization, and
antiterrorism. PATA provided a national security waiver that allowed
the White House to continue funding various entities in the PA
presidential office and judiciary branch, so long as Hamas did not
control the recipient. It also permitted funding to nongovernmental
organizations that provide aid to the West Bank and Gaza relating to
humanitarian needs and democracy promotion.

Ultimately, the dilemma over funding the PA resolved itself in 2007,
when Hamas broke with Fatah and the PA and took control of Gaza.
This separation freed OFAC to allow all transactions with the Fatah-
controlled PA in the West Bank. But should Hamas rejoin the PA as
a result of the recent unity arrangement, there may be pressure on
OFAC to take a tougher stance. Indeed, in recent appropriations bills,
Congress has made assistance to a “power-sharing government” in
Palestine contingent on compliance with PATA.

Congressional authorization to fund a Hamas-affiliated PA would
likely overcome existing legal prohibitions. In the face of PATA,
however, there is a substantial risk that providing aid without specific
congressional authority would violate U.S. criminal laws. Although
there are several arguments for exempting the PA from the U.S. laws
against dealing with FTOs, none is particularly convincing. To begin
with, it could be argued that although U.S. law prohibits individuals

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030180
