The science of the mind is not
unique in this regard. As the historian
Daniel Boorstin (1983, /) noted:

Nothing could be more obvious
than that the earth is stable and
unmoving, and that we are the
center of the universe. Modern
Western science takes its
beginning from the denial of this
commonsense axiom...
Common sense, the foundation
of everyday life, could no longer
serve for the governance of the
world. When “scientific”
knowledge, the sophisticated
product of complicated
instruments and subtle
calculations, provided
unimpeachable truths, things
were no longer as they seemed.”

(p. 294)

And just as the observation that we roam
on stable ground led to the incorrect
inference that we are the center of the
universe, so too is the modern notion
that the human brain is a solitary,
autonomous instrument whose
connections with other brains is a matter
of deliberate choice and of no real
import.

The human brain, the organ of
the mind, is housed deep within the
cranial vault, where it is protected and
isolated from others, so it may seem
obvious that the brain is a solitary
information processing device that has
no special means of connecting with
other brains. But we are fundamentally
a social species. Faces, expressive
displays, and human speech receive
preferential processing in neonate as
well as adult brains. When a person
feels rejected by others, their brain
shows the same pattern of activation as
when they are exposed to a physically

painful stimulus. Permit a person to
cooperate with others, and their brain
shows the same pattern of activation as
when they are given a rich reward such
as delicious food or drink. We may not
be aware of it, but human evolution has
sculpted a human need for social
connection, along with neural circuits
and hormonal processes that enable and
promote communication and connection
across brains. As we shall see in the
chapters to follow, our sociality is an
important part of who we are as a
species and it plays an important though
often invisible role in the operations of
our brain and our biology. Among the
questions we examine is whether our
social brain also contributes to the
ubiquitous human quest for spirituality.

The Chicago Social Brain Network

For hundreds of years, theology
and philosophy were the hub disciplines
of scholarship, and other fields of
inquiry orbited around this dyad and
were tightly constrained by it. Over the
past three centuries, the sciences have
come into their own, displacing theology
and philosophy at the center of the
academic universe. In so doing, they
have produced extraordinary advances in
everyday life. People may reminisce
about the good old days, but thanks to
science and technology the amount of
total income spent on the necessities of
food, clothing, and shelter dropped from
80% in 1901 to 50% in 2002/2003. Yet
there remains an inchoate sense that
something is missing in our lives,
something intangible and elusive.
Science has improved our material lives,
but improvements in material life may
not be enough to optimize human well
being.

Can these two very different
ways of seeing the world be used

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021254
