systems of knowledge that are in
opposition. This approach is common
and evident in a spate of contemporary
books that take the position that science
and religion represent competing ways
of understanding the world and that
science (or religion) is the one and only
valid way of understanding human
behavior and the world around us (3-8).
For instance, in 7he God Delusion,
Richard Dawkins places specific Judeo-
Christian theological doctrines under the
scrutiny of science only to find that none
passes scientific muster.

The vast majority of people from
all educational backgrounds continue to
harbor strong religious beliefs that affect
their daily decisions and behavior, with
both good and ill effects. These
religious belief systems most commonly
bump into scientific claims around
invisible forces. When science opens up
opportunities to improve the human
condition by providing a more complete
understanding of the causes of events,
their measurable effects, and possible
interventions— ranging from valid
science education to medical
advancements based on stem cell
research — these opportunities are often
threatened by the application of specific
religious beliefs to these endeavors.
Scientific research to understand religion
and religious belief systems may be a
more productive response than broad
denouncements by scientists of any who
hold such beliefs.

Conversely, when religion opens
up opportunities for improving the
human condition by questioning the
emphasis on short-term self-interests at
the expense of the collective, providing a
more complete understanding of the
human need to attribute meaning to
events and their effects, and identifying
possible interventions— ranging from the

Page |13

provision of tangible support to
individuals in need, to the promotion of
healthy lifestyles and ethical behavior—
scientific research to understand these
influences may again be a more
productive response than broad
denouncements by scientists that such
beliefs are irrational. Indeed, the
question of whether God exists is of
much less scientific interest, and of
much more questionable scientific merit
(how would one scientifically falsify
such a claim?), than the question of the
causes, consequences, and underlying
mechanisms for the observable human
behaviors affected by invisible forces---
whether they be physical (gravity),
social (groups), or perceived spiritual

(gods).

Contemporary science explains
many of these phenomena but also
points to the human capacities and
emergent processes that derive from
collective social structures and actions
and, underlying the emergence of these
structures, the human need for meaning-
making and connecting to something
beyond oneself. The dominant metaphor
for the scientific study of the human
mind during the latter half of the 20
century has been the computer — a
solitary device with massive information
processing capacities. Computers today
are massively interconnected devices
with capacities that extend far beyond
the resident hardware and software of a
solitary computer. The extended
capacities made possible by the internet
can be said to be emergent because they
represent a whole that is greater than the
simple sum of the actions that are
possible by the sum of the individual
(disconnected) computers that constitute
the internet. The telereceptors (e.g.,
eyes, ears) of the human brain have
provided wireless broadband

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021259
