Honorable Mark Filip
May 19, 2008
Page 6

e Federal prosecutors made the unprecedented demand that Mr. Epstein pay a
minimum of $150,000 per person to an unnamed list of women.they referred to as
minors and whom they insisted required representation by a guardian ad litem. Mr.
Epstein’s counsel later established that all but one of these individuals were actually
adults, not minors. Even then, though demanding payment to the women, the
USAO eventually asserted that it could not vouch for the veracity of any of the
claims that these women might make.

e Federal prosecutors made the highly unusual demand that Mr. Epstein pay the fees
of a civil attorney chosen by the prosecutors to represent these alleged “victims”
should they choose to bring any civil litigation against him. They also proposed
sending a notice to the alleged “victims,” stating, in an underlined sentence, that
should they choose their own attorney, Mr. Epstein would not be required to pay
their fees. The prosecutors further demanded that Mr. Epstein waive his right to
challenge any of the allegations made by these “victims.”

e The Assistant U.S. Attorney involved in this matter recommended for the civil
attorney, a highly lucrative position, an individual that we later discovered was
closely and personally connected to the Assistant U.S. Attorney’s own boyfriend.

e Federal prosecutors represented to Mr. Epstein’s counsel that they had identified
‘(and later rechecked and re-identified) several alleged “victims” of federal crimes
that qualified for payment under 18 U.S.C. § 2255, a civil remedy designed to
provide financial benefits to victims. Only through state discovery provisions did
we later learn that many of the women on the rechecked “victim list” could not
possibly qualify under § 2255. The reason is that they, themselves, testified that
they did not suffer any type of harm whatsoever, a prerequisite for the civil recovery
under § 2255. Moreover, these women stated that they did not, now or in the past,
consider themselves to be victims.

e During the last few months, Mr. Herman, First Assistant Sloman’s former law

partner, has filed several civil lawsuits against Mr. Epstein on behalf of the alleged
“victims.” It is our understanding that each of Mr. Herman’s clients are on the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010728
