just as an addict needs to devote serious effort and con sciousness to his addiction, so must we devote great
energy to unders tanding how the Control Factor ultimately sabotages us.

FP: Describe the threat we face in our Islamic enemy. And you talk about the three levels of jihad against us.
What are they?

Siegel: Simply stated, our Islamic Enemy seeks the totalitarian domination of Islam throughout the world —
Islamic supremacy. It seeks to have the West submit to Islam. Obviously, this does not mean that everybody
becomes a Muslim. Islam, in all its varied expressions, permits dhimmis- those Christians, Jews, and some
others who are permitted to remain as protected non-Muslims as long as they submit to an inferior status.
What is critical is that Shariah (Islamic Law) ultimately rules the world.

Jihad, loosely, is the effort/struggle to see this vision through. The most obvious method of Jihad is through
violence; it is the one most familiar to most Westerners and almost all of the Koranic references to Jihad are
based in violence. The Violent Jihad includes al-Qaeda and its offshoots as well as other groups that formed
around the globe independent of al-Qaeda. It also obviously includes the violence from Islamic nations such
as the Islamic Republic of Iran whose constitution specifies such vision. It also includes, however, various
militant groups and training camps here in the US as well as ad hoc efforts of individuals.

Since 9/11, there have been something in excess of 15,000 Violent Jihadic attacks across the globe.
However, as terrible as this is, we have a tendency in the West to think that the only dimension of threat we
face comes from violence. While the Bush administration helped initiate this thinking, the Obama
administration has actively abused it by limiting any discussion of the threat we face to al-Qaeda and some
other terrorist groups abroad. As frightening as these groups are, we can get some ease from thinking they
are a band of “extremists limited in number, weaponry, sophisticati on, and means. Stunningly, Hillary
Clinton recently estimated that there are only about 50,000 “homicidal” violent extremists around the world
who simply have been able to project power much greater than their number should allow. Here the Control
Factor makes the threat appear more easily manageable.

Jihad, however, is pursued in other often even more effective ways which I have grouped into three “levels.”
A second more insidious level of threat is what the Muslim Brotherhood itself called the “Civilization Jihad.”
It is the effort to infiltrate all aspects of our society, peacefully according to our laws, in order to later be in
position to sabotage and destroy it from the inside. The Civilization Jihadists have learned the culture and
rules of the territories they seek to command and use those rules to maneuver—specifically using our
freedoms to destroy our freedoms. They use “lawfare” to seek changes in our laws so as to push Shariah into
our society. Your readers should read Daniel Pipes and Brooke Goldstein’s Lawfare Project material and
others to fully appreciate how cancerous this activity has become. This includes intimidating in a variety of
ways anyone who speaks out against them or Islam and seeking to squelch our treasured broad right to free
speech so as to ultimately prevent any criticisms of Islam. Once criticism of Islam is prohibited, little can
stop it from cascading throughout the culture.

The Civilization Jihad includes situating such Jihadists in critical positions in the society, in the government,
in the legal system, the military, and elsewhere. It includes the control over university programs that
distribute propaganda about Islam and Islamic history which then filters down throughout textbooks for even
younger students. It includes control over most of the nation’s mosques and local Imams guiding the mess
ages engaged Muslims are receiving. Most troublesome are the Muslim g roups (CAIR, ISNA, MSA and
others associated and/or joint venture partners with the Muslim Brotherhood) supposedly interested in
“outreach” which know how to appear Westernized and interested in the goals of Western Civilization. They
have fooled a large part of our authorities and media due in part to their patience and willingness to chip
away, one airport prayer room, one frivolous intimidating lawsuit, one Congressman or CIA officer, one
mosque, one ruling at a time.

Particularly in the US, given our deep attachment to freedom as well as cultural and psychological tendencies
toward diversity, Western guilt and expectations of truthfulness, this effort is devious and difficult to uproot.
The Civilization Jihadists present one face to the American public which is completely at odds with their true
agenda and how they deal in private. Jamie, you and David and others such as Steve Emerson, Frank

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024422
