4.2.12
WC: 191694

Even as recently as the early 20 Century, the influential legal commentator, John Wigmore,
proposed that women who accuse men of rape should be subjected to a psychiatric examination
because:

“Modern psychiatrists have amply studied the behavior of errant young girls and women
coming before the court in all sorts of cases. Their psychic complexes are multifarious,
distorted partly by inherent defects, partly by diseased derangements, partly by bad social
environment, partly by temporary psychological or emotional conditions. One form taken
by these complexes is that of contriving false charges of sexual offenses by men. The
unchaste (let us call it) mentality finds incidental but direct expression in the narration of
imaginary sex incidents of which the narrator is the heroine or the victim. On the surface
the narration is straightforward and convincing. The real victims, however, too often in
such cases is the innocent man...”

Even as late as the 1960s, the Supreme Court of Georgia, in rejecting Justice Goldberg’s view
that the death penalty might be unconstitutional for rape, provided the following male-centered
justification for why rapists must be executed:

“We reject this [attempt to reduce the protection of] mothers of mankind, the cornerstone
of civilized society, and the zenith of God’s creation, against a crime more horrible than
death, which is the forcible sexual invasion of her body, the temple of her soul, thereby
soiling for life her purity, the most precious attribute of all mankind [sic!].”

During the last quarter of the 20 Century, political and academic feminism began to focus
attention on the gender inequalities implicit, and often explicit, in rape laws. Within a short period
of time, thousands of years of anachronistic rules governing the prosecution of rape cases were
changed. The testimony of rape victims no longer had to be corroborated. Rape shield laws
prohibited defense attorneys from questioning alleged rape victims about their prior sexual
history. Husbands could be prosecuted for forcing their wives to have sex. The force and
resistance elements of rape were amended in most jurisdictions to require only a lack of consent.
Date rape was punished as seriously as stranger rape. Most importantly, attitudes changed, at
least among some groups which no longer treated predatory males as macho heroes and women
who dressed provocatively as automatically consenting sex partners.

Nearly all of the rules that had made it difficult to prosecute rapists were amended within the
course of little more than a decade, as the pendulum swung quite dramatically from a male-
centered view of rape to a female-centered view. As with many wide swings of a pendulum, there
was little effort to strike a carefully calibrated balance that represented our general approach to all
crimes: namely that there must be a heavy burden of proof on the prosecution and that it is better
for 10 guilty rapists to go free than for even one innocent accused rapist to be wrongly convicted.
Indeed even that salutary rule was challenged by some feminists in the context of rape.” One
influential scholar went so far as to suggest that all sexual intercourse is essentially rape” and that

7 [get sources]
8 [Andrew Dworkin]

231

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017318
