Raider of the Inner Sanctum | 79

required a minimum of one month’s notice for foreign travel. By
making the request, he lessened the likelihood that it would arouse
undue suspicion when he departed for Hong Kong with stolen docu-
ments on May 18. This brief window left him some four weeks to
take the lists that he coveted.

Snowden carried out the heist with precision reminiscent of a
Mission: Impossible movie caper. First, he needed to get passwords to
up to twenty-four compartments at the National Threat Operations
Center that he had not been read into. Even in the “open culture”
of the NSA, this was not an easy challenge. He would be asking
one or more intelligence professionals to break strict NSA rules
that not only prohibited them from disclosing their passwords to an
unauthorized party such as himself but required them to report any
unauthorized person who asked to use their passwords. Remarkably,
he accomplished this incredible feat. He gained access to twenty-four
compartments containing the NSA’s most closely guarded secrets in
a matter of a few weeks.

Next, he had to find the lists he was seeking in a vast ocean of

© data. For this task, he used software applications called spiders to ©
crawl through the data and find the files he was after. He deployed
these robotic spiders, which presumably had been programmed in
advance, soon after he began working at the center. According to the
subsequent NSA damage assessment, Snowden’s spiders indexed
well over one million documents. Many of those that he copied and
moved were from Level 3 sensitive compartmented information,
according to the NSA analysis. The spiders also made his penetra-
tion relatively safe. As previously mentioned, the Hawaii base did
not have a real-time auditing system. So alarm bells did not go off in
the security office when he indexed documents.

Finally, Snowden had to find a way to transfer this data to a com-
puter with an opened USB port. This task was complicated by a secu-
rity precaution. Most of the computers at the center had had their
ports sealed shut to prevent unauthorized downloads. Making the
transfer even more difficult, he was working as an analyst in train-
ing in an open-plan office with closed-circuit security cameras. But it
was not impossible. System administrators sometimes used service
computers that had unsealed ports to back up data before they did

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 79 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019567
