ANTONIO DAMASIO

Antonio Damasio (born February 25, 1944 in Lisbon, Portugal)
is a University Professor (an award based on multi-disciplinary
interests and significant accomplishments in several
disciplines) and David Dornsife Professor of Neuroscience at
the University of Southern California, where he heads USC’s
Brain and Creativity Institute. Prior to taking up his posts at
USC, in 2005, Damasio was M.W. Van Allen Professor and
Head of Neurology at the University of Iowa Hospitals and
Clinics from 1976 to 2005. He is also Adjunct Professor

at the Salk Institute.

Damasio is the author of several best-selling
books which describe his scientific thinking. “As a leading
neuroscientist, Damasio has dared to speculate on
neurobiological data, and has offered a theory about the
relationship between human emotions, human rationality,
and the underlying biology.”

Damasio was born in Lisbon and studied medicine
at the University of Lisbon Medical School in Portugal, where
he also did his neurological residency and completed his
doctorate. He worked as a research fellow at the Aphasia
Research Center in Boston in 1967, prior to receiving his
MD in Lisbon. His work there on behavioural neurology
was done under the supervision of the late Norman
Geschwind, the Harvard neurologist who created the field.

As aresearcher, Damasio’s main field is the
neurobiology of the mind, especially neural systems which
subserve emotion, decision-making, memory, language and
consciousness. Damasio’s seeks to demonstrate that emotions
play a critical role in high level cognition, an idea that ran
counter to dominant 2oth century views in psychology,
neuroscience and philosophy. He showed that emotions and
their biological underpinnings are involved in decision-making
(both positively and negatively, and often non-consciously);
provide the scaffolding for the construction of social cognition;
and are required for the self processes which undergird
consciousness. “Damasio provides a contemporary scientific
validation of the linkage between feelings and the body by
highlighting the connection between mind and nerve cells...
this personalized embodiment of mind.”

He formulated the somatic markers hypothesis,
which captures the essence of these ideas. This idea has
inspired many systems-neuroscience experiments carried out
in laboratories in the U.S. and Europe, and has had a major
impact in contemporary science and philosophy. His articles
on this topic include: Bechara A, Damasio AR, Damasio H,
Anderson S. Insensitivity to future consequences following
damage to human prefrontal cortex. Cognition. 50:7-15. 19943
Bechara A, Damasio H, Tranel D, Damasio AR. Deciding
advantageously before knowing the advantageous strategy.
Science. 275:1293-1294. 1997; Anderson SW, Bechara A,
Damasio H, Tranel D, Damasio AR. Impairment of social
and moral behaviour related to early damage in human
prefrontal cortex. Nature Neuroscience. 2:1032-1037. Damasio

has been named by the Institute of Scientific Information as
one of the most highly cited researchers in the past decade).
Current work on the biology of moral decisions, neuro-
economics, social communication, and drug-addiction,

has been strongly influenced by Damasio’s hypothesis.

Damasio also proposed that emotions are part of
homeostatic regulation and are rooted in reward/punishment
mechanisms. He recovered James’ perspective on feelings as
aread-out of body states, but expanded it with an “as-if-body-
loop” device which allows for the substrate of feelings to be
simulated rather than actual (foreshadowing the simulation
process later uncovered by mirror neurons). He demonstrated
experimentally that the insular cortex is a critical platform
for feelings, a finding that has been widely replicated, and
he uncovered cortical and subcortical induction sites for
human emotions, e.g. in ventromedial prefrontal cortex
and amygdala. He also demonstrated that while the
insular cortex plays a major role in feelings, it is not
necessary for feelings to occur, suggesting that brain
stem structures play a basic role in the feeling process.

He has continued to investigate the neural basis of
feelings and demonstrated that although the insular cortex is
a major substrate for this process it is not exclusive, suggesting
that brain stem nuclei are critical platforms as well. He
regards feelings as the necessary foundation of sentience.

In another development, Damasio proposed that
the cortical architecture on which learning and recall depend
involves multiple, hierarchically organized loops of axonal
projections that converge on certain nodes out of which
projections diverge to the points of origin of convergence
(the convergence-divergence framework). This architecture
is applicable to the understanding of memory processes
and of aspects of consciousness related to the access
of mental contents.

In “The Feeling of What Happens”, Damasio lays
the foundations of the “enchainment of precedences”: “the
nonconscious neural signaling of an individual organism
begets the protoself which permits core self and core
consciousness, which allow for an autobiographical self,
which permits extended consciousness. At the end of the
chain, extended consciousness permits conscience.

Damasio’s research depended significantly on
establishing the modern human lesion method, an enterprise
made possible by Hanna Damasio’s structural neuroimaging/
neuroanatomy work complemented by experimental
neuroanatomy (with Gary Van Hoesen and Josef Parvizi),
experimental neuropsychology (with Antoine Bechara, Ralph
Adolphs, and Dan Tranel) and functional neuroimaging (with
Kaspar Meyer, Jonas Kaplan, and Mary Helen Immordino-
Yang). The experimental neuroanatomy work with Van Hoesen
and Bradley Hyman led to the discovery of the disconnection
of the hippocampus caused by neurofibrillary tangles in the
entophinal cortex of patients with Alzheimer’s disease.

As a clinician, he and his collaborators

have studied and treated disorders of behaviour
and cognition, and movement disorders.

Damasio’s books deal with the relationship between
emotions and feelings, and what their brain substrates. His
1994 book, Descartes’ Error: Emotion, Reason and the Human
Brain, won the Science et Vie prize, was a finalist for the
Los Angeles Times Book Award, and is translated in over 30
languages. It is regarded as one of the most influential books
of the past two decades. His second book, The Feeling of What
Happens: Body and Emotion in the Making of Consciousness,
was named as one of the ten best books of 2001 by the New
York Times Book Review, a Publishers Weekly Best Book of
the Year, a Library Journal Best Book of the Year, and has
over 30 foreign editions. Damasio’s Looking for Spinoza: Joy,
Sorrow, and the Feeling Brain, was published in 2003. In it,
Damasio suggested that Spinoza’s thinking foreshadowed
discoveries in biology and neuroscience views on the mind-
body problem. Spinoza was a protobiologist. His latest book
is Self Comes to Mind: Constructing the Conscious Brain. In
it Damasio suggests that the self is the key to conscious
minds and that feelings, from the kind he designates as
primordial to the well-known feelings of emotion, are the
basic elements in the construction of the protoself and core
self. The book received the Corinne International Book Prize.

Damasio is a member of the American Academy of
Arts and Sciences, the National Academy of Sciences’ Institute
of Medicine, and the European Academy of Sciences and Arts.
Damasio has received many awards including the Prince of
Asturias Award in Science and Technology, the Honda Prize,
the Kappers Neuroscience Medal, the Beaumont Medal from
the American Medical Association, the Nonino Prize and the
Reenpaa Prize in Neuroscience. He has received honorary
doctoral degrees (Doctor honoris causa) from the University
of Aachen (2002), University of Aveiro (2003), University
of Copenhagen (Copenhagen Business School; 2009),
University of Leiden (2010), University Ramon Llull,
Barcelona (2010), University of Coimbra (2011) and
from the EPFL, Lausanne (2011).

His current work involves the social emotions,
consciousness and the creative interface between
neuroscience and the arts, especially music and
film. The role of feelings states on sentience.

Damasio is married to Dr. Hanna Damasio,
his colleague and frequent co-author.

Damasio himself notes, in fallibilist fashion,

“Thave a difficult time seeing scientific results, especially in
neurobiology, as anything but provisional approximations”’.
Whether despite or because of that fallibilism, Damasio
writes in the belief that ‘scientific knowledge can

be a pillar to help humans endure and prevail’.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017536
