seized the day. But, as sure as politics, someone would.

In that sense, the Trumpian and Republican future was already moving beyond this
White House. There was Bannon, working from the outside and trying to take over the
Trump movement. There was the Republican leadership in Congress, trying to stymie
Trumpism—if not slay it. There was John McCain, doing his best to embarrass it. There
was the special counsel’s office, pursuing the president and many of those around him.

The stakes were very clear to Bannon. Haley, quite an un-Trumpian figure, but by far
the closest of any of his cabinet members to him, might, with clever political wiles, entice
Trump to hand her the Trumpian revolution. Indeed, fearing Haley’s hold on the president,
Bannon’s side had—the very morning that Bannon had stood on the steps of the Breitbart
town house in the unseasonable October weather—gone into overdrive to push the CIA’s
Mike Pompeo for State after Tillerson’s departure.

This was all part of the next stage of Trumpism—to protect it from Trump.

7 OK Ok

General Kelly was conscientiously and grimly trying to purge the West Wing chaos. He
had begun by compartmentalizing the sources and nature of the chaos. The overriding
source, of course, was the president’s own eruptions, which Kelly could not control and
had resigned himself to accepting. As for the ancillary chaos, much of it had been calmed
by the elimination of Bannon, Priebus, Scaramucci, and Spicer, with the effect of making
it quite a Jarvanka-controlled West Wing.

Now, nine months in, the administration faced the additional problem that it was very
hard to hire anyone of stature to replace the senior people who had departed. And the
stature of those who remained seemed to be more diminutive by the week.

Hope Hicks, at twenty-eight, and Stephen Miller, at thirty-two, both of whom had
begun as effective interns on the campaign, were now among the seniormost figures in the
White House. Hicks had assumed command of the communications operation, and Miller
had effectively replaced Bannon as the senior political strategist.

After the Scaramucci fiasco, and the realization that the position of communications
director would be vastly harder to fill, Hicks was assigned the job as the “interim”
director. She was given the interim title partly because it seemed implausible that she was
qualified to run an already battered messaging operation, and partly because if she was
given the permanent job everyone would assume that the president was effectively calling
the daily shots. But by the middle of September, interim was quietly converted to
permanent.

In the larger media and political world, Miller—who Bannon referred to as “my
typist’ —was a figure of ever increasing incredulity. He could hardly be taken out in public
without engaging in some screwball, if not screeching, fit of denunciation and grievance.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020116
