arNInNWOS WNP

had audio and/or video surveillance? We'll start with
audio.

A. 1 don't have a specific recollection of
every place ] had video and audio, but it was in -- ]
had it set up so that in all of the common areas,
including our shareholder's lounge, we had -- J had
audio and video capabilities.

Q. When you say capabilities, does that mean
you didn't always turn it on or you just turned it on
when you felt like it?

A. J turned it on when J felt like it, when 1
felt like seeing what was going on. | sometimes left
the screen up because | had four computer screens on
my desk, I sometimes left the screen on with the video
of the reception area and some other general areas.
But unless ] wanted to see what was going on or listen
to what was going on, ] didn't turn it on. It would
have been too distracting.

Q. Did the attorneys know that this
surveillance existed?

A. You can see it in the -- it wasn't hidden,
you can see it. There were globes up in the ceiling
al] over the office.

Q. Did you have -- you said -- you didn't
answer this, you said you didn't recall. Did you have
Page 30

Oe WNrOrFOW DAI DOA WNP TOW MAINA BWNEH

PEREVE REDE NOMENA PEA LUNN HS ONAN EESTI OPER HERES HIE RES EESE A AS SORTA BE OE
MMONMNHNYHD FRPP BPR PE

EL iN ea RI SEES IN EISNER NO eA

any surveillance in the conference rooms? :
A. No.
Q. Other than the common areas you just went :
over, in the hallways and the reception -- did you i
have it in the hallways, is that a common -- do you :
deem that a common area? :
A. All the hallways pretty much with the :
exception of a few blind spots, J can see all the :
hallways. '
Q. And this was on all three floors?
A. Yeah. For some reason | think we might :
have taken some space on a fourth floor, but ] could :
be mistaken. But yes, on the three floors that we :
actively had a significant amount of space on, } tried i
to have surveillance on al] the common areas of al]
that space. :
Q. And what floor was Mr. Edwards' office on? =|
A. | don't recall. :
Q. Did you have the tort group all together or |
was it divided up? i
A. Except for Adler, Adler was on with -- near |
me, down the hall from me. The rest of the group was |
all together. I think they were on -- let's see. i
There were people up on 22. | was on 16. He must
have been on the other floor that we were building
Page 31 i

Op WHF OM DMOAIAUBWNHEF TOMO DATA YAAWNHEH

NONMNMNHNHNFE EP ERP PPP

out, because ] remember building out space and |
remember Jaffe and all those guys moving into that
space.

Q. If you were building up that space, do you
recall when you put the surveillance in there?

A. It would have been while they were building
it out or shortly thereafter.

Q. During 2009 it seems that you hired lots of
former law enforcement people to work at the firm.
Why were they people you wanted to hire?

A. Severalfold. J had a significant amount of
illegal activity going on with various law enforcement
agencies throughout South Florida and hiring people
from former law enforcement assisted me in engendering
support and camaraderie with the law enforcement that
} was actually utilizing in illegal activities.

Q. So you are saying --

A. Secondarily, ] wanted to have a very strong
investigative team, ultimately, to do both legitimate
and illegitimate things for the law firm, and hiring
former Jaw enforcement was the best way to do that. ]
was hoping to actually ultimately create a group. Ken
Jenne and I had talked about that extensively.

Q. Why did you hire Ken Jenne?

A. Prior to Ken going to prison, he and ] were
Page 32

very friendly and he was extremely friendly with
someone that was very close to me, Grant Smith.
During the time that he was down in FDC Miami, I went
down to visit him. And after speaking to him and
after speaking to Grant, ] told him, because he was
talking to me about how many people had tumed on him
and abandoned him. And ] told him that when he got
out of jail that he had no worries, that ] would give
him a job.

Q. And what --

A. And that was the primary reason -- that was
my primary reason for hiring him.

Q. What was it you were hiring him to do
exactly?

A. Ultimate the goal was to head up on
investigative arm within RRA, within the RRA entities.

Q. Well, while he was there, since that didn't
happen, what was his obligation to the firm
day-to-day?

A. He handled firm security issues and he did
handle overseeing certain investigative things. We
had an alcohol and beverage group that was forming and
he was overseeing that. He was helping me find new
people to staff it, that kind of thing.

Q. Did you have a lot of interaction --
Page 33

9 (Pages 30 to 33)

FRIEDMAN, LOMBARDI & OLSON

305-371-6677

5ed93085-0554-447f-bcdd-ca2d8fe941df

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017498
