13

The staff delegation trips to China were welcomed and sought after by congressional staff
and congressional support agency personnel, mainly from the Congressional Research
Service of the Library of Congress, which had a growing interest in China and the issues

it posed for US policy. The trips generally came twice per year and involved meetings with
Chinese government officials and others responsible for key foreign affairs and domestic
issues of interest to the Congress. The exchanges in these meetings were generally cordial
and substantive, although the trips also included sightseeing and visits to parts of China of
interest to the Congress.

In the United States, there have been a number of counterpart groups that have facilitated
congressional exchanges. Among them are the Washington, DC-based US-Asia Institute
(USAT), which has played a leading role in managing the congressional staff delegations
side since 1985.* The National Committee on US-China Relations did a pilot congressional
staff delegation visit to China in 1976 and resumed involvement with such exchanges
again during the past decade.* In the 1980s, the Asia-Pacific Exchange Foundation (also
known as the Far East Studies Institute) also managed a number of congressional staff
delegations to China, while the US-Asia Institute has, since 1985, coordinated over

120 such delegations and exchanges to China. These visits have been done in cooperation
with the Chinese People’s Institute of Foreign Affairs (CPIFA) and the Better Hong Kong
Foundation (BHKF). But the National People’s Congress (NPC) has perhaps hosted the
most trips, taking over a thousand congressional staff members to China. In these trips,
members have traveled to nearly every corner of China, including Xinjiang and Tibet. In
their discussions, they have covered a wide range of themes important to the US-China
relationship. Staffers participating in such trips have clearly advanced their understanding
of Chinese developments.

Congress and Turmoil in US-China Relations, 1989-2001

The number of the congressional staff delegations to China slowed following the collapse
of congressional support for engagement with China after the Tiananmen crackdown in
1989. Congressional anger and the impulse to punish the Chinese government overrode
past interest in constructive engagement. As a result, Beijing began relying more heavily on
the US business community and its organizations, notably the Emergency Committee for
American Trade, to persuade Congress not to end the most-favored nation tariff treatment
for Chinese imports. The Chinese embassy and various lobbyists who were, or at least
claimed to be, supported by the Chinese government also tried to limit the damage by
seeking to convince congressional members that conditions in China were much better
there than were depicted in American media at the time.°

Based on the reputation of its past efforts, the US-Asia Institute, presumably with
the encouragement of its Chinese counterparts, strove to resume the staff dialogues
and attracted a wide range of senior staff and support personnel, including some of

Section 1

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020472
