look at his nine-hour deposition about the investigation.

¢ Earlier versions of the U.S attorney’s charges, including a sealed 53-page indictment, could have landed
Epstein in prison for 20 years.

* Victims alleged that Epstein molested underage girls from South America, Europe, and the former Soviet
republics, including three 12-year-old girls brought over from France as a birthday gift.

¢ The victims also alleged trips out of state and abroad on Epstein’s private jets, which would be evidence of
sex trafficking—a much more serious federal crime than the state charges Epstein was convicted of.

* Epstein’s attorneys investigated members of the Palm Beach Police Department, while others ordered private
investigators to follow and intimidate the victims’ families; one even posed as a police officer.

¢ Then-Attorney General Alberto Gonzales told The Daily Beast that he “would have instructed the Justice
Department to pursue justice without making a political mess.”

Film director Roman Polanski is not the only convicted pedophile to walk free this month and return to a life of
privilege. On Wednesday, hedge fund manager Jeffrey Epstein completes his one-year house arrest in Palm
Beach, which has been even less arduous than Polanski’s time at a Swiss ski chalet.

Watch Jeffrey Epstein Storm Out of a Deposition When Asked About His Penis

During Epstein’s term of “house arrest,” he made several trips each month to his New York home and his
private Caribbean island. In the earlier stage of his sentence for soliciting prostitution with a minor—13
months in the Palm Beach Stockade—he was allowed out to his office each day. Meanwhile, Epstein has settled
more than a dozen lawsuits brought by the underage girls who were recruited to perform “massages” at his
Palm Beach mansion. Seven victims reached a last-minute deal last week, days before a scheduled trial; each
received well over $1 million—an amount that will hardly dent Epstein’s $2 billion net worth.

* Conchita Sarnoff: Epstein Faces Sex Traffic Probe

* The Billionaire Pedphile's Sex Den

With that, the known victims of Epstein’s sexual compulsion have been officially silenced, and the case against
him is closed unless new ones come forward. According to banking sources, he has been moving assets out of
the U.S. and may well follow Polanski into a luxurious exile.

But the question remains: Did Epstein’s wealth and social connections—former President Bill Clinton; Prince
Andrew; former Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak; New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson; and former Treasury
Secretary Larry Summers were just a few of the prominent passengers on his private jets—allow him to receive
only a slap on the wrist for crimes that carry a mandatory 20-year sentence? Was he able, with his limitless
assets and heavy-hitting lawyers—Alan Dershowitz, Gerald Lefcourt, Roy Black, Kenneth Starr, Guy Lewis,
and Martin Weinberger among them—to escape equal justice?

Epstein Faces Sex-Traffic Probe
http://www.thedailyb...obref=obnetwork

The Justice Department is investigating Jeffrey Epstein for child trafficking, The Daily Beast has learned—and
has widened the scope of its probe to include a famous modeling agency.

Hedge- fund manager Jeffrey Epstein completed his sentence for soliciting prostitution with a minor last week.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029770
