me to have an orgasm!

Scarleteen, my favorite sex education site, has a great article about squirting orgasms
and how some women feel pressured to squirt for the sake of the sexual novelty. On a
similar note, I'll close this post with an anecdote about a guy I dated a while back who
was very focused on giving me orgasms. To his credit, he figured out how to make me
come very quickly. But the problem was that -- I soon realized -- the biggest reason he
wanted to make me come was because he wanted to feel like he could.
Fundamentally, it wasn't about my pleasure; it was about him feeling like the man.”

Let me be clear: he was a great guy, and I was into having sex with him. But it became
very obvious to me that if I didn't have an orgasm every time we had sex, then he would
be really bothered. So there were definitely a few encounters where, although I wasn't
especially interested in having an orgasm, I still closed my eyes and flicked through
fantasies with a kind of panic... until I managed to kick-start my body into coming. Isn't
that messed up?

One thing I've learned, in years of writing about sex and gender, is that anything --
anything at all -- can be a tool for limiting or stifling sexuality... just as much as it can be
a tool for releasing sexuality. Turns out, orgasms are no exception. Even orgasms can
become a difficult duty. I'm so glad that I know how to have an orgasm now; for me,
that was an important step for my sexuality and my self-esteem. But now that I've
learned how to do that, I find myself questioning why it's such an important and
destructive issue in the first place!

Sex is a journey. There are so many directions, so many forks in the road, so many stops
along the way. There are so many speedbumps and roadblocks, uphills and downhills,
free and easy open stretches. Sometimes people stop to rest. Sometimes people double
back. Everything is evolving. A lot of people find it most awesome to simply... enjoy the
road.

te ok ok

When I was in my late teens, I had a couple straight lady friends who did this thing where
they took a year of chastity... although they had already had a fair amount of sex. It
wasn't that they thought sex was bad. It wasn't that they especially disliked sex. It wasn't
that they regretted choosing to have sex previously. But these women felt powerfully
drawn towards taking a year away from sex, a year where no sex happened in their lives...
and I instinctively understood because I felt the same urge. In fact, I came up with the
idea of deliberately taking a year of chastity on my own, before I heard that anyone else
was doing it.

I'm not telling you this because I want to sound like one of the cool kids; I'm not trying
to say anything like, I was into chastity when it was underground! As it happened, I
never actually went through with my chastity urge. But I thought about it a lot, and I
thought about the fact that other girls I knew were doing it. We didn't have backgrounds
that one would normally consider anti-sex. We had liberal backgrounds, liberal parents,
liberal educations. Why were we so attracted to the idea of taking a year without sex?

I thought about it a lot, and I concluded this: We felt like we didn't own our sexuality.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018516
