Jovovich, Jeny Holl and Rebecce Ramin. who is curently stoning in fhe award-
winning ABC felevision senes, Ugty Betty, MC2 models are among the most
soughI offer in the industry, os evidenced by the coliber ot their commercial and
echtorial bookings. Many of our fashion models have graced the pages of
leading fashion magazines of the United States. Europe, Latin America, Alnica,
and Australia such o% Vogue. Teen Vogue. Fle. W. Glamour. V. Martie Clgire.
Sufface and Cosmopolitan os weil as many more throughout the world. In
addition to our Miami Beach office. MC2 Models has offices im New York City
and Tel Aviv, israel.

As Ariisiic Dsector and Talent Coordinator for MC2 Models Miarry. LLC. Mr.
Brune wil be responsible for overseeing ihe ortistic aspecis of the agency. By
overseeing ihe ort department in the agency. Mr. Brunei wall direci the visual
marketing of ihe models to clients, focusing on tne images placed an both the
model's Composite cards and thew portfotios. Soth of these marketing tools are
crucial in morketing fashion modes to their appropriale calaleg. editorial, of
medio chents., As Aslistic Drector and Iglent Coordinalor, Mr. Brunel will also
coorchnoie the painng of fashion models with a particular Photographer. Clients
for the agency include o mytied of fashion Publicalions, retail stores, consumer
product companies. and fashion houses io name but o few. Recruitment of
talenied arlistic photographers who have on excetient understanding of the “ins
and ouls” of ihe modeling and fashion mdustry is critical to the successtul
running of a fop-modeling agency such as MC2 Modes. Mi. Brune! will also
continue with his amazing fact record of discovering ihe world's greaiest
talents and beauties in order fo sign them with MC2 Modek. Mr. Brunel wil
continue to travel around the world looking for new talents, and to agencies
around the word in order to establish relationships with those agencies and
allow MC2 Models Miami. LLC 1o represent them in the Uniled Siates.

Mr. Srunel’s impressive qualifications as an Arl Director and Talent
Coordinator, establish eligibility os to the reguiotory standards for such
classification os 4 top professional in his field. Mr. Brunel meets the O-! critena as
an individual of extraordinary ability in the Aris and Entertainment field as well as
Q business entrepreneur. MC2 Models Miami, LLC is Presently seeking a
sophisticated art ditecior ond taleni coordinalor. After reviewing his expenance
ond accolades. we are confident Ihat the beneficiary, Mr. Jean Luc Brunel, will
perform scicf function with outstanding ski and professionalism.

LMR, BRUNEL'S QUALIFICATIONS AS THE BENEFICIARY

In addition tc Jean Luc Brunel's extensive business qualifications, his
“oreer as an individual wilh artistic vision and creative lalents Qualifies him as an
0-1 atten in the Arts and Entertainment Field His alt- encompatiuna expenence
as an Art Drector, Talent Coordinoior. international entepreneu ond business

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011981
