Global Asset Allocation
The J.P. Morgan View
09 November 2012

Jan Loeys
(1-212) 834-5874
jan.loeys@jpmorgan.com

As aresult, we stay underweight US equities and have moved risk from our
US credit longs into Europe. Our initial US equity underweight was against
Europe and EM Asia. Our recent downgrade of Q1 growth in the Euro area
and better activity data in China made us move the lion’s share of the
overweight versus the US into EM Asia (see Wednesday’s Global Market
Outlook and Strategy).

Chinese activity data continue to surprise on the upside. October data for
IP, retail sales and fixed investment each came above our expectations. This
creates upside risk, but no change yet, to our forecasts which already assume a
gentle rise in quarterly growth rates from under 7% early this year to just
above 8% in Q1. Better data reduce the need for renewed fiscal and monetary
stimulus. The 18th Party Congress started yesterday, will last a week, and will
be followed by the announcement of the next leadership. More important for
the economic outlook will be the Annual Central Economic Working
Conference that will be held in December. We expect it to support continued
moderate fiscal policy, a neutral monetary policy, and further economic
rebalancing towards domestic consumption. It may also lower the 2013
growth target to 7%. For more details, see Haibin Zhu in today’s GDW.

Fixed Income

Bonds rallied strongly, in the slipstream of the tumbling equity market.
President Obama’s re-election perhaps also diminishes expectations of a
change in course at the Fed.

The ECB and the Bank of England stood pat at their policy meetings this
week, but the latter delivered a curveball today, announcing that its net
coupon income from QE would be transferred to the UK Treasury from next
year on. The near-term effect is a slight monetary easing, as the money will
be used to reduce the amount of gilts in issue, similar to QE itself.

Beyond that, this is another small step towards perceptions that monetary
policy is no longer independent from fiscal policy, like the Bank of Japan’s
joint statement with two government ministers last month. Nobody knows the
tipping point at which these perceptions feed into much higher inflation
expectations, just that we'll know it when we see it.

Core euro bond yields are towards the low end of the range, and we expect
them to head higher. But we focus more risk on spread compression trades,
via overweights in Euro area peripherals, US MBS, and EM local bonds vs
DM.

Equities

Equity markets fell sharply post US elections, but we are not changing our
strategy.

From a month ago, we avoided directional longs in our GMOS model equity
portfolio due to elevated positions by spec investors (see Charts A10 and A12
in today’s Flows & Liquidity). We preferred to focus instead on regional and
sectoral trades. We stay with the same strategy focusing our
recommendations on EM Asia across regions, and Cyclical stocks and US
Home builders across sectors.

The rebound in the October global manufacturing PMI is what keeps us long
Cyclical vs. Defensive equity sectors. Is this a high-beta trade? Not

J.P Morgan

2012 global GDP growth forecasts: JPMorgan and
Consensus
4.5

4.0

35 Consensus

3.0
JPM

2.5

2.0

Jan-11 May-11 Sep-11 Jan-12 May-12 Sep-12

Source: J.P. Morgan, Consensus Economics. Consensus Economics
forecasts are for regions and countries that we averaged using the
same 5-year rolling USD GDP weights that we use for our own global
growth forecast.

2013 global GDP growth forecasts: JPMorgan and
Consensus

3.4

39 Consensus

2.9
JPM

27

2.4

Jan-12 Apr-12 Jul-12 Oct-12

Source: J.P. Morgan, Consensus Economics. Consensus Economics
forecasts are for regions and countries that we averaged using the
same 5-year rolling USD GDP weights that we use for our own global
growth forecast.

More details in ...

Global Data Watch, Bruce Kasman and David Hensley

Global Markets Outlook and Strategy, Jan Loeys, Bruce
Kasman, et al.

US Fixed Income Markets, Terry Belton and Srini
Ramaswamy

Global Fixed Income Markets, Pavan Wadhwa and Fabio
Bassi

Emerging Markets Outlook and Strategy, Joyce Chang

Key trades and risk: Emerging Market Equity Strategy,
Adrian Mowat et al.

Flows and Liquidity, Nikos Panigirtzoglou et al.
Description of YTD Chart on front page:

Returns in USD. “Local currency. “*Hedged into USD.
Euro Fixed Income is iBoxx Overall Index. US HG, HY,
EMBIG and EM $ Corp are JPM indices. EM FX is ELMI+
in $.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026573
