Name Position

Lowell Milken Co-Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer of KUE

Michael Milken Co-Founder and Chairman of KUE

Steven Green Vice Chairman of KUE, and Chairman and CEO of k1 Ventures
and Greenstreet Real Estate Partners

Ted Sanders Vice Chairman of KUE

Stephen Goldsmith Senior Vice President of Strategic Planning and Worldwide
Government Programs

Nina Rees Senior Vice President, Strategic Initiatives

Jeffrey Safchik Chief Financial Officer

Richard Sandler General Counsel

Adam Cohn Senior Vice President, Business Development

Geoffrey Moore Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications

Michael Neumann Vice President, Business Development

Name Position

Les Biller Retired Vice Chairman & Chief Operating Officer of Wells
Fargo and Company

Ted Mitchell CEO of the New Schools Venture Fund

Tsvi Gal Chief Technology Officer for Deutsche Bank Asset
Management

9.2. Note Payable to KULG by KU Education, Inc.

On January 6, 2005, KU Education, Inc., a Delaware corporation and subsidiary of KUE (KUE Inc.”)
executed a promissory note in favor of KULG, an entity controlled by the Principals, in the amount of
$200.0 million, the proceeds of which were used in connection with the acquisition of KinderCare by
KLC. This note has a seven year maturity and accrues interest at the “reference rate” set by Bank of
America plus 1.25% per annum. The note may be prepaid, in whole or in part, without any premium or
penalty. As of April 1, 2006, KUE Inc. owes approximately $183.9 million under the note.

9.3. Term Loan Facility

On March 29, 2006, Knowledge Universe Education LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“KUE
LLC”), entered into a six-month $150 million term loan facility with an affiliate of Credit Suisse, one of the
Agents. The proceeds of the $150 million term loan were used to repay existing debt of KUE LLC to
entities controlled by Michael Milken.

The term loan facility is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by KUE LLC's direct and indirect parents and
the parent guaranty is several. Upon contribution of assets to KUE by KUE LLC, KUE will become a co-
borrower. It is expected that this Term Loan Facility will be repaid with the proceeds of this offering.

The term loan bears interest at either the reserve adjusted LIBOR rate plus 0.125% or the base rate
(generally the applicable prime lending rate, as announced from time to time), at KUE’s option and is

secured by cash collateral. KUE is permitted to voluntarily prepay the term loan, in whole or in part,
without premium or penalty, upon the giving of proper notice.

74

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024507
