And:

Separately, American intelligence agencies had intercepted communications of
Russian officials, some of them within the Kremlin, discussing contacts with Trump
associates.

The story went on:

Mr. Trump has denied that his campaign had any contact with Russian officials, and
at one point he openly suggested that American spy agencies had cooked up
intelligence suggesting that the Russian government had tried to meddle in the
presidential election. Mr. Trump has accused the Obama administration of hyping
the Russia story line as a way to discredit his new administration.

And then the real point:

At the Obama White House, Mr. Trump’s statements stoked fears among some that
intelligence could be covered up or destroyed—or its sources exposed—once power
changed hands. What followed was a push to preserve the intelligence that
underscored the deep anxiety with which the White House and American
intelligence agencies had come to view the threat from Moscow.

Here was more confirmation of a central Trump thesis: The previous administration, its
own candidate defeated, was not just disregarding the democratic custom of smoothing the
way for the winner of the election; rather, in the Trump White House view, Obama’s
people had plotted with the intelligence community to put land mines in the new
administration’s way. Secret intelligence was, the story suggested, being widely
distributed across intelligence agencies so as to make it easier to leak, and at the same time
to protect the leakers. This intelligence, it was rumored, consisted of spreadsheets kept by
Susan Rice that listed the Trump team’s Russian contacts; borrowing a technique from
WikiLeaks, the documents were secreted on a dozen servers in different places. Before
this broad distribution, when the information was held tightly, it would have been easy to
identify the small pool of leakers. But the Obama administration had significantly
expanded that pool.

So this was good news, right? Wasn’t this proof, the president asked, that Obama and
his people were out to get him? The 7imes story was a leak about a plan to leak—and it
provided clear evidence of the deep state.

Hope Hicks, as always, supported Trump’s view. The crime was leaking and the culprit
was the Obama administration. The Justice Department, the president was confident, was
now going to investigate the former president and his people. Finally.

OOK Ok

Hope Hicks also brought to the president a big piece in the New Yorker. The magazine had
just published an article by three authors—Evan Osnos, David Remnick, and Joshua Yaffa

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019998
