unfortunately, you are taking a little tiny spot out
of a very, very busy time period in my life and in the
life of the firm, so J can't tell you one way or the
other. knowing he was a billionaire?

Q. |} know you had a lot going on, I'm just A. | knew what] was told. | didn't check it

trying to see if you remember anything specific about; out myself, but] trusted the people that told me.
this. Q. And who told you?

A. The only person ] remember discussing it
with, as | sit here today, is Russ Adler. But if

Farmer and Jaffe and those guys were with me at the
time, ] likely would have discussed it with them as

ave discussed it with them as
well

Q. So were you aware of this case before you
made an offer to Brad to join the firm?

A. Yes,

Q. You said you didn't -- ] don't want to
misquote you. You said you heard about it from other
people, but you didn't do anything to know that
personally. Was that before you made the offer of

A. Epstein was a billionaire,
Q. Okay. Did you know anything about the
legitimacy or illegitimacy of the claims prior to

AUSTENITE

Onan Uo B® WME

Do you recal] what salary you had offered
Brad to come join the firm?

A. I] donot. You have to just try to
differentiate that what I knew then is a Jot different
than what J know now so ...

Q. Meaning?

A. Obviously meaning that at the point in time
that ] was hiring him or maybe a year after, ] would
be able to tell you what I was paying him, but now
it's insignificant. J don't remember how much I was
paying him.

Q. Did you learn about his book of business or
know what kind of cases he was bringing in prior to employment?
hiring him? A. 1] made the offer of employment based upon

A. I do know that he -- I discussed either with z what other people had told me about Brad.

Russ, well, ] know with Russ, and perhaps some other = Q. About Brad and his book of business or just
people, ] knew about the Epstein case. i Brad and his legal skills?

Q. What did you know about it? : A. Okay. When ] say Brad, ] mean Brad and his

Page 20

ts SONNE te tre eae Ei are Ra Oger nee RSE

. Lknew that it was a significant case. book of business and his legal skills.

potentially significant value against an extremely Q. Okay.

A. And his ability to generate business in the
future.

Q. You stated that you believed that you first
heard about these cases from Russ and then perhaps
from Brad. Once Brad was at the firm, did you keep up
with these cases, these Epstein cases?

MR. SCAROLA: Excuse me, I'm going to
object to the form of the question. It is an
inaccurate reflection of the prior testimony. It has
no predicate. There was no reference about having
heard about these cases from Brad. The names
mentioned were Adler, possibly Farmer, possibly
Jaffe.

BY MS. HADDAD:

Q. Once Brad started working at the firm,
you've already testified you already knew about these
Epstein cases, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. How did you keep abreast of these cases?

A. I didn't.

Q. You didn't know anything about them?

A. I didn't say ] didn't know anything. 1 said
1 didn't keep track of it.

collectible pedophile, for lack of a better word.

Q. So was that case your primary motive in
bringing Brad into-the firm?
A. ] doubt it, ] mean, ] can't tell you one

way or the other, but I doubt that ] would bring him
in just for one case because what if the case fails,

then J'm stuck with a lawyer w
you know.

I'm not saying, Brad, that you couldn't do
anything, J'm just saying that if] only relied on one
case, then if] bring a lawyer in for one case and one
case only, what do I do with him when the case is
over.

Q. How did you know that this case would be a
collectible case then?

MR. SCAROLA: I'm going to object to the
form of the question because it misstated the prior
testimony. The prior testimony was not that it was a
collectible case but that it was a case against a
extremely collectible pedophile.”

BY MS. HADDAD:
Q. What made you think that this case had any

financial value?

errr ta ARAL i cre meester etn cnc oe ta zat RY TR AN Ra aera tone eat
, n 4 ypu sf ry

Page ia § Page 21]

6 (Pages 18 to -21)

FRIEDMAN, LOMBARDI & OLSON
305-371-6677

5ed93085-0554-447f-bcdd-ca2d8fe941 df

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017495
