Additional Principles of Criminal
Liability for Anti-Bribery Violations:
Aiding and Abetting and Conspiracy

Under federal law, individuals or companies that aid
or abet acrime, including an FCPA violation, are as guilty as
if they had directly committed the offense themselves. The
aiding and abetting statute provides that whoever “commits
an offense against the United States or aids, abets, counsels,
commands, induces or procures its commission,” or “will-
fully causes an act to be done which if directly performed
by him or another would be an offense against the United
States,’ is punishable as a principal.'” Aiding and abetting is
not an independent crime, and the government must prove
that an underlying FCPA violation was committed.*”

Individuals and companies, including foreign nation-
als and companies, may also be liable for conspiring to
violate the FCPA—i.e., for agreeing to commit an FCPA
violation—even if they are not, or could not be, indepen-
dently charged with a substantive FCPA violation. For
instance, a foreign, non-issuer company could be convicted
of conspiring with a domestic concern to violate the FCPA.
Under certain circumstances, it could also be held liable
for the domestic concern’s substantive FCPA violations
under Pinkerton v. United States, which imposes liability on
a defendant for reasonably foreseeable crimes committed
by a co-conspirator in furtherance of a conspiracy that the
defendant joined.”

A foreign company or individual may be held liable
for aiding and abetting an FCPA violation or for conspiring
to violate the FCPA, even if the foreign company or indi-
vidual did not take any act in furtherance of the corrupt
payment while in the territory of the United States. In con-
spiracy cases, the United States generally has jurisdiction
over all the conspirators where at least one conspirator is
an issuer, domestic concern, or commits a reasonably fore-
seeable overt act within the United States.” For example,
if a foreign company or individual conspires to violate the
FCPA with someone who commits an overt act within the
United States, the United States can prosecute the foreign
company or individual for the conspiracy. The same prin-

ciple applies to aiding and abetting violations. For instance,

The FCPA:

Anti-Bribery Provisions

even though they took no action in the United States,
Japanese and European companies were charged with con-
spiring with and aiding and abetting a domestic concern’s

ECPA violations.?”

Additional Principles of Civil Liability
for Anti-Bribery Violations: Aiding and
Abetting and Causing

Both companies and individuals can be held civilly
liable for aiding and abetting FCPA anti-bribery violations
if they knowingly or recklessly provide substantial assis-
tance to a violator.™ Similarly, in the administrative pro-
ceeding context, companies and individuals may be held
liable for causing FCPA violations.” This liability extends
to the subsidiaries and agents of US. issuers.

In one case, the U.S. subsidiary of a Swiss freight for-
warding company was held civilly liable for paying bribes on
behalf of its customers in several countries.” Although the
US. subsidiary was not an issuer for purposes of the FCPA,
it was an “agent” of several US. issuers. By paying bribes on
behalf of its issuers’ customers, the subsidiary both directly

violated and aided and abetted the issuers’ FCPA violations.

What Is the Applicable Statute of
Limitations?

Statute of Limitations in Criminal Cases

The FCPA’s anti-bribery and accounting provisions
do not specify a statute of limitations for criminal actions.
Accordingly, the general five-year limitations period set
forth in 18 US.C. § 3282 applies to substantive criminal
violations of the Act.?”
In cases involving FCPA conspiracies, the govern-

ment may be able to reach conduct occurring before the

five-year limitations period applicable to conspiracies

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022536

