280 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

tion treaties with the United States. Yet, instead, he flew to Hong
Kong, which had an extradition agreement that had been enforced
throughout the past decade with Hong Kong courts ordering the
arrest of almost every fugitive charged by U.S. authorities. He could
expect that when the United States filed a criminal complaint, Hong
Kong authorities would seize him and the alleged stolen property of
the U.S. government in his possession. Even if he were released on
bail and successfully defeated extradition in a Hong Kong court, the
Hong Kong authorities would almost certainly retain all the NSA
and GCHQ files he had gone to such lengths to steal.

His reason, as he told Greenwald, was that China could provide
him with physical protection from any countermeasures by U.S.
intelligence agencies such as “American agents... breaking down
the door” of the hotel room and seizing him. China also had sway
over Hong Kong’s security activities.

Hong Kong was therefore merely a protected stopover en route to
his next destination. If he had gone directly to Moscow and provided
the same journalists with the same documents at a press conference

© in Moscow, his status as a whistle-blower might have been viewed ©
with less sympathy in the media. Even The Guardian, for example,
might have been reluctant to publish a Moscow-based story reveal-
ing British and American communications intelligence secrets.

The Third Decision

The third choice Snowden made, and the choice that most effectively
defined him to the public, was to reveal himself as the man behind
the leak in a video in Hong Kong. He not only identified himself as
the person who stole the government documents published by The
Guardian and The Washington Post but also incriminated himself
further on camera by allowing Poitras to film him actually disclosing
the NSA’s secret operations to Greenwald. By disclosing classified
data to Greenwald, an unauthorized person, he intentionally burned
his bridges.

What makes this choice intriguing is that there was no evident

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.indd 280 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019768
