Yates now told the White House that Flynn’s conversation with Kislyak had actually
been captured as part of an “incidental collection” of authorized wiretaps. That is, a
wiretap had presumably been authorized on the Russian ambassador by the secret Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Court and, incidentally, picked up Flynn.

The FISA court had achieved a moment of notoriety after the Edward Snowden
revelations briefly made it a béte noire for liberals who were angry about privacy
incursions. Now it was achieving another moment, but this time as the friend of liberals,
who hoped to use these “incidental” wiretaps as a way to tie the Trump camp to a wide-
ranging conspiracy with Russia.

In short order, McGahn, Priebus, and Bannon, each with prior doubts about Flynn’s
reliability and judgment—“a fuck-up,” according to Bannon—conferred about the Yates
message. Flynn was asked again about his call with Kislyak; he was also told that a
recording might exist. Again he scoffed at any suggestion that this was a meaningful
conversation about anything.

In one White House view, Yates’s tattling was little more than “like she found out her
gitlfriend’s husband flirted with somebody else and, standing on principle, had to tell on
him.”

Of more alarm to the White House was how, in an incidental collection wherein the
names of American citizens are supposedly “masked”—with complicated procedures
required to “unmask” them—had Yates so handily and conveniently picked up Flynn? Her
report would also seem to confirm that the leak to the Post about these recordings came
from the FBI, DOJ, or Obama White House sources—part of the growing river of leaks,
with the Zimes and the Post the leakers’ favored destinations.

The White House in its assessment of the Yates message ended up seeing this as less a
problem with an always hard-to-handle Flynn than as a problem with Yates, even as a
threat from her: the Justice Department, with its vast staff of career and Obama-inclined
prosecutors, had ears on the Trump team.

7 OK Ok

“It’s unfair,” said Kellyanne Conway, sitting in her yet undecorated second-floor office
while representing the president’s hurt feelings. “It’s obviously unfair. It’s very unfair.
They lost. They didn’t win. This is so unfair. So POTUS just doesn’t want to talk about
it.”

There was nobody in the White House who wanted to talk about—or even anyone who
had been officially delegated to talk about—Russia, the story that, evident to most, even
before they entered the White House, was certain to overwhelm the first year of the Trump
administration at the very least. Nobody was prepared to deal with it.

“There’s no reason to even talk about it,” said Sean Spicer, sitting on the couch in his

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019956
