the “2003: Signaling Breakthroughs of the Year”. These discoveries also resulted in four issued
patents.

FINANCE AND OPERATIONS

Craig L. Slutzkin, (39), is Chief Financial Officer and manages the back office, compliance and
administrative functions for New Leaf. Craig joined Sprout as Vice President and the head of
its back office operations in August 2002 and transitioned to New Leaf at the time of the spin-
out. Prior to joining Sprout, he spent over seven years in the audit and assurance practices of
Arthur Andersen and Ernst & Young in New York, attaining the position of Senior
Manager. While at Andersen and Ernst & Young, clientele included various multi-strategy
private equity and venture capital fund firms as well as top tier investment banks. Craig
received his M.B.A. in finance from Columbia Business School and received a B.A. in
Accounting and Information Systems from Queens College. He is a certified public accountant
and a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.

INDUSTRY ADVISORS

The Fund Managers work closely with industry professionals who are experts in New Leaf’s
fields of interest and are willing to work closely with the Fund Managers on an as needed basis
to provide their perspectives on topics and issues that are relevant to due diligence on new
investments, on-going issues that arise in the management of existing portfolio companies, and
longer term fund strategy. New Leaf’s advisors are all prominent in their fields, and hold
senior positions within leading corporations and academic institutions. These experts provide
New Leaf and its portfolio companies with their own invaluable insights, but equally
importantly open up their networks of contacts in ways that vastly expand and strengthen New
Leaf’s own network.

Therapeutics Advisors
New Leaf works with a broad range of industry advisors to support its investment activities in

therapeutics. The Fund Managers work on an as needed basis with a large group of advisors
that includes contacts from industry and academia that each of the investment professionals
within the firm has cultivated through their own professional and academic experiences. The
Fund Managers solicit input from advisors on an as needed basis to get valuable input on
specific scientific, clinical, and commercial issues and topics relevant to diligence on new
investment opportunities, and to the management of existing portfolio companies. This
network gives New Leaf timely and valuable access to some of the world’s leading academic
scientists and experienced practitioners/executives from industry, and brings their subject
matter expertise to bear across the myriad of topics that are critical to New Leaf’s decision
making in the therapeutics sectors. Because of the breadth of topics where this type of outside
input is required, and due to the fact that the science and technology is evolving rapidly in most
of these fields, New Leaf has not created a formal advisory board for therapeutics

Information Convergence Advisory Board

The Fund Managers have assembled an additional advisory board to support activities in
Information Convergence. This group of advisors has a breadth of experience in the
development and deployment of new information technologies that are reshaping healthcare.

15 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024026
