13.2 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

Angleton, a famously baroque thinker himself, impressed on me the
complexity of espionage. He said, “It’s not enough just to steal a
secret. It must be done in a way that the theft remains undetected.”

Deception is employed to obscure the nature and the extent of
the espionage theft. One of the most famous examples of this prin-
ciple was the deception used by British intelligence in World War II
to conceal its success in breaking the German ciphers generated by
the Enigma machines. If German naval intelligence had discovered
Britain was able to read the ciphers it used to communicate with its
U-boats, it would have stopped using them. So British intelligence
hid its coup by supplying false information to known German spies
to account for the sinking of U-boats, including the canard that Brit-
ish aerial cameras could detect one ingredient in the paint used to
camouflage the U-boats.

That same hoary principle of deception applies to modern-day
communications intelligence. If the Russian, Chinese, or any other
adversary intelligence service got its hands on the documents stolen
by Snowden from the NSA’s repositories in Hawaii in 2013, it would

© likely employ deception, including well-crafted lies, to create as ®
much ambiguity as possible as to the missing documents. From this
counterintelligence perspective, the intelligence issue that spawned
the great divide cannot be resolved by accepting the uncorroborated
statements made by a source, such as Snowden, who may be in the
hands of the Russian security services in Moscow.

By the same token, the calculations made by NSA officials about
the extent of the theft are also suspect. After all, the NSA is an intel-
ligence service that often engages in secret machinations. We know
that its top officials reported to the House and Senate Intelligence
Committees, as well as the president’s national security adviser, that
Snowden compromised over one million documents. But if this was
disinformation, it is difficult to see its purpose. Inflating the extent
of the damage of the Snowden breach to the president, Congress,
and the secretary of defense obviously reflected poorly on their own
management of the NSA, and their own careers. Yet such a possibil-
ity cannot be precluded in the arcane world of intelligence.

As in any case involving the loss of state secrets, uncontested facts
remain in extremely short supply. The opinion-laden appellatives

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 132 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019620
