Cognitive Process-Based Education 3

don’t want to learn, or is something else more complex going on?
I will summarize these five issues as follows:

ABILITY
POSSIBILITY
METHODOLOGY
CONSTRAINTS
GOAL ALIGNMENT

School is subject-based and, further, those subjects are predefined and
agreed upon by those in charge. Without giving a history of how this
state of affairs came to be,' or why it is an issue, it is first necessary to
note that it is the case. I say this because when we were students in
school, we accepted the fact that school was the way it was, and we
assumed that it was the way it was supposed to be. We may not think
each subject we learn is valuable or interesting, and perhaps we long
to learn different subjects, but never do we hear people suggest that
there shouldn't be subjects in school at all. This is a very difficult idea
to swallow. There have always been subjects. What else would there
be? What would it mean to not have subjects?

Answering this question is the aim of this book. We need to under-
stand what goes on in schools and what might be preferable. The issue
really is not schooling at all. The real issue is how learning actually
takes place in the human mind.

Ask a student how he is doing in school and he will tell you the
subjects he likes. I like English but Iam bad at math, he might say. This
is such a normal sentiment among students that we never think about
how weird a sentiment it really is. We don’t ask: How are you doing at
life? We could ask that of a teenager and she might say: I am good at
dating but bad at driving.

But, actually, you would never hear teenagers say something like
that. This is weird because, in general, dating and driving are much
more important subjects in a teenager’s world than English and math.
But they don’t talk about whether they are good at it or bad at it in
the same way.

They continue to practice and get better at those things because
they care about them. Saying, I am bad at math, means, in essence,

... and I don’t care and have stopped trying because I don’t see the point.
Saying, I am good at English, typically means, I am getting a good grade
in English. This state of affairs defines the main problem in education:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023749
