To: Brett D. Jaffe
Subject: Ghislaine Maxwell

Dear Brett Jaffe,

I left you a telephone message earlier. The Mail on Sunday newspaper is running a story on Ghislaine
Maxwell, Jeffrey Epstein, Prince Andrew and others this weekend.

We urgently require responses from Ms Maxwell to the following questions. Our deadline is noon
tomorrow. My telephone numbers are Pe

Annette Witheridge
On behalf of the Mail on Sunday

1 fs says Ghislaine Maxwell offered her a job as a masseuse with Jeffrey Epstein when she was
aged 15. Ms Maxwell led] upstairs on her first visit to him at his Palm Beach house. Mr Epstein was
naked on massage table.

Ms Maxwell initiated a bisexual encounter during which Ms Maxwell rubbed her own breasts on Mr Epstein

and directed HE to copy her.
Please respond to these allegations and all others in the original Jane Doe 102 complaint.

2. Ms Maxwell took part in numerous other sexual encounters involving her assistant
and Mr Epstein.

3. Ms Maxwell kept sex toys and costumes in the Palm Beach mansion and dressed IEE prior to sex
sessions with Mr Epstein. S Maxwell herself wore black vinyl during sex sessions with Mr Epstein.

4. 2s paid between US $200 and $ 5000 US sex, depending on whether it involved travel and other
men.

5, BE «was required to have sex with friends of Ms Maxwell and Mr Epstein, including Glenn Dubin, Les
Wexner, Ehud Barak, former Senator George Mitchell and Stephen Kosslyn.

6. Ms Maxwell introduced | to Prince Andrew in 2001 at Ms Maxwell's London house where [ll
had sex with him. subsequently was directed to meet him at Mr Epstein's New York house where Ms
Maxwell directed to sit on Andrew's knee with EEE Andrew groped both girls. Ms
Maxwell directed after this to have sex with Andrew.

Ms Maxwell and Mr Epstein subsequently travelled with HEM to Little St James where she was directed
to stage an orgy for Andrew and Mr Epstein during which she performed oral sex on
them.

fe | | was paid extra by Mr Epstein or his employees for these sexual encounters.
8. Ms Maxwell knew age and laughed about it when she introduced her to Andrew.
9. Ms Maxwell and Mr Epstein tried to persuade [J to bear his child.

10. After sexual encounters with male friends of Mr Epstein and/or Ms Maxwell, Ms Maxwell and Mr Epstein
would ask WE explicit questions about what went on.

11. Mr Epstein’s residences in Florida and New York had surveillance cameras that taped the sex sessions and
taped even in the bathroom.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023036
