4.2.12
WC: 191694

actions that fall into a gray area. Let me explain something: No means no. There is no
gray area.

But in many date rape situations, the alleged victim didn’t say no. Nor did she say yes. There are
grey areas.

I received countless letters, phone calls, and personal attacks denouncing me for agreeing to
represent Tyson on his appeal. Here are some excerpts from the letters:

It’s too bad that a punk like Tyson can afford to pay for the top legal representation... but
since you had the right to refuse to represent him, I fault you!

It saddens me that you yourself continue to worship at the altar of the great god of
violence and fear of women.

Mr. Tyson is a convicted rapist with obvious psychological problems who needs a
psychiatrist not an attorney who will argue excuses for his behavior! If, through your
efforts, Mike Tyson is not held accountable for his behavior, then you do a disservice to
all women and we become victims of a pandemic legal system gone awry!

Mike Tyson? He doesn’t deserve the best—it’s a shanda!! (“Shanda” is the Yiddish for
“shame.”)

When you choose to represent someone like Mike Tyson, you attach the Jewish
community to your action...I now find it hard to understand how you can mount a
passionate defense for a convicted rapist.

Shame on you, Alan Dershowitz, if you handle this appeal.

The most surprising response came from some Harvard Law School students, who should
understand that our adversary system of justice requires that all convicted defendants be accorded
a zealous appeal.

I don’t know what actually took place in Mike Tyson’s hotel room on that fateful night, but it
may well have fallen into the category of gray area. He believed that she wanted to sleep with
him. She may have been ambivalent or sending mixed signals (though I doubt it). It was a close
case and Tyson was entitled to have his defense presented vigorously, both at trial and on appeal.

Yet several of my students strongly objected to their teacher representing “a convicted rapist.” A
couple of them even threatened to file “sexual harassment” charged against me because my
representation of Tyson created a “hostile environment” for students who believed he was guilty.

The protest then broadened to the way I discussed the crime of rape in class. In my criminal law
class, I teach the law of rape as an example of a cutting-edge subject that poses a sharp conflict
between the rights of defendants and their accusers. As usual, I take a “devil’s advocate” position
on politically correct issues. For example, although I personally oppose capital punishment, I

243

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017330
