4.2.12
WC: 191694

The strategy was simple in outline: The Supreme Court should not be allowed the luxury of
deciding the issue of capital punishment as an abstraction; instead, it must be confronted with the
concrete responsibility of determining the immediate fates of many hundreds of condemned
persons at the same time. In this way, the Court could not evade the issue, or lightly refuse to
decide it if the Court’s refusal would result in the specter of mass executions of hundreds of
convicts. However, the Court could decline to decide the ultimate issue — the constitutionality of
capital punishment — if in doing so it could find some other way of keeping alive those on death
row. And the legal team always provided the Court with this other way — a narrower issue,
usually in the form of an irregularity in the procedure by which the death penalty was imposed or
administered.

Pursuant to this strategy, the Supreme Court decided a number of cases involving the
administration of the death penalty; in each of these cases the Court declined to consider the
ultimate issue, but it always ruled in favor of the doomed, thereby sparing their lives — at least
for the moment. With the passage of each year, the number of those on death row increased and
the stakes grew higher and higher.

Then in 1971 the Court took its first turn toward the noose: In Mc-Gautha v. California, it held
that a condemned person’s constitutional rights were not violated “by permitting the jury to
impose the death penalty without any governing standards” or by permitting the imposition of the
death penalty in “the same proceeding and verdict as determined

the issue of guilt.” At that point it looked like the string might have been played out: there were
no more “narrow” procedural grounds. The Court would have to confront the ultimate issue. But
it was not the same Court that had been sitting when the strategy was

originally devised; there were four new Nixon appointees, and it was clear that at least some of
them believed the death penalty to be constitutional. The umpires — if not the rules — had been
changed after the strategy of the game had been worked out and irretrievably put into action.
Now there was no pulling back.

The drama intensified. The Court let it be known that finally it was ready to decide the ultimate
issue. Knowledgeable lawyers—counting noses on the Court—were predicting that the death
penalty would be sustained by a narrow majority. Some thought that it might be struck down for
rape but sustained for murder. Some predicted that the Court would once again find—or
contrive—a reason for avoiding the ultimate issue. A few, of optimistic bent, kept the faith and
expressed the belief that the Court—even this Court—would simply not send hundreds to their
death.

And then a major and unanticipated break. The California Supreme Court — perhaps the most
influential state court in the nation —ruled that its constitution (which had substantially similar
wordings as the federal Constitution) forbade the death penalty. Then, on the last day of the
United States Supreme Court’s 1971 term, the decision was rendered in a case called Furman v.
Georgia. The death penalty, as administered in this country, was unconstitutional. The argument
proposed by Justice Goldberg on my first day as his law clerk had now been accepted by a
majority of the Justices. Goldberg called me in joy, offering mutual congratulations and crediting
me with implementing his idea. I was thrilled.

163

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017250
