automobiles, changing how we
transported and consequently how and
where we worked and lived; Charles
Darwin who argued that the difference in
mind between humans and other species,
great as it is, is one of degree and not of
kind; and Albert Einstein who surmised
a relationship between energy and
matter, opening a universe of
possibilities that previously was virtually
unimaginable. As a result, the cultural
focus moved from a focus on the social
group — the family, neighborhood, or
society — toward the autonomous
individual.

Forty years ago, the dominant
metaphor for the human mind was the
digital computer, complete with inputs,
filing and memory systems, limited
processing resources, and outputs.
Evolutionary theory focused on the
selfish gene and, by extension, on the
individual whose purpose for living was
to survive long enough to reproduce.
Milton Friedman influenced economic
theory and government policies for
decades by positing that people, being
fundamentally rational, are motivated
first and foremost by self interests, and
the adage of “united we stand, divided
we fall” was supplanted by the notion
that what is best for the me is best for the
society. Moving from an economy
based on manufacturing for the masses
to one based on catering to idiosyncratic
consumer interests further fueled a focus
on the preferences of the autonomous
individual.

One can certainly find evidence
in humans and other species for the view
of life being best understood in terms of
self-interest. Sardines, for example,
swim in what appears to be synchronized
schools until approached by a predator,
at which time they dart about so
chaotically that they create what appears

Page |19

to be a large, tumultuous ball with a
mind of its own. The rule governing the
behavior of this dynamic and adaptive
collective action can be explained
entirely in terms of self-interests. Each
fish is driven to swim to the middle,
where it is less likely to be eaten by the
hungry predator. Sardines are born with
the capacity to swim, find food, and
avoid predators. If they survive long
enough to reproduce, their genes will be
part of the gene pool for future
generations. That is, if those who are
genetically predisposed to swim to the
middle are more likely to survive
predation, then the genetic
predisposition to swim to the middle will
become a characteristic of a larger
percentage of sardines in future
generations.

The sardine ball is an example of
a more general phenomenon, in which
the choices made by members of a group
endow the collective with properties that
are consistent, predictable, and
purposive enough that we can speak of
them as “behaviors” of the group, even
though the collective actions of the
group are not directed by any of the
individual members. This phenomenon
can be called “emergent,” because the
properties or behavior of the group are
not determined by any individual but
arises from the collective behaviors of
the individuals who constitute the group.
Social structures like the sardine ball
have evolved because the sardines
whose genes compelled them to swim to
the middle in the presence of predators
were more likely to survive to
reproduce, thereby contributing these
genes to this species’ gene pool.

According to the National
Science Foundation’s Tree of Life
project, there are anywhere between 5
million and 100 million species on

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021265
