Epstein building compound on Great St. James | News | virginislandsdailynews.com 5/7/19, 9:15 AM

Nielsen could not say what specifically the unauthorized
work consists of, but said DPNR Commissioner nominee
Jean-Pierre Oriol would be available by phone today to
answer questions about the situation.

Documents on file at the Coastal Zone Management division

of DPNR show that Epstein used “Great St. Jim, LLC,” a shell

company organized by St. Thomas attorney Erika Kellerhals,

to purchase three parcels totaling 80.1 acres from the Danish
Kjaer family for $17.5 million on Jan. 18, 2016.

The remainder of the island — 12 parcels totaling 81.22 acres
— was transferred from another St. Thomas company, GSJ
Properties Corp., to Great St. Jim LLC for $5 million on Jan.
21, 2016.

While it’s long been rumored that Epstein had purchased
Great St. James, for years his name appeared nowhere on
publicly available documents listing property ownership of
the island.

The Daily News requested access to documents contained in
Coastal Zone Management permit application files for the
island on April 18, and was provided access to those records
Monday.

The documents show that in 2011, Kellerhals, another
attorney in her firm, Gregory Ferguson, and business
consultant Brett Geary organized the St. Thomas company
Poplar Inc.

A certificate of incumbency contained in the file lists Epstein
as president of Poplar Inc., his longtime lawyer Darren
Indyke is listed as vice president and secretary, and another
longtime associate, Richard Kahn, is listed as treasurer.

The Daily Beast reported in April that Kellerhals, Indyke, and
Kahn are listed as the only officers of other defunct
nonprofits run by Epstein, including the C.0.U.Q.
Foundation, J. Epstein Virgin Islands Foundation, and Epstein
Interests. They’re also listed as officers for Gratitude America
Ltd., anonprofit formed in the Virgin Islands in 2012 through
which Epstein has made financial contributions to various

organizations.

The certificate specifically states that those individuals are
authorized to act on behalf of the corporation with respect to
all transactions, “including but not limited to transactions
related to permitting matters submitted on behalf of Great
St. Jim, LLC.”

http://www.virginislandsdailynews.com/news/epstein-building-compoun...n-great-st-james/article_ a49261e9-40f0-57b1-9501-605e26e74cf3.html Page 2 of 4

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031210
