COWEN
COLLABORATIVE INSIGHTS

February 25, 2019

Given increasing interest, younger consumer demographic trends, and a lack of paid
advertising within the space, below we offer a snapshot of the Instagram landscape as a
proxy for current company social media activity. We would caveat that this is not an
exhaustive list, nor does the below chart factor in the impact of influencer marketing,
which is a popular trend in order for these companies to drive brand momentum. That
said, we believe the below chart reflects the competitive nature of the category as we
are already starting to see momentum from less known, emerging brands.

Of the companies analyzed, the below chart reflects the top 17 brands by absolute
Instagram followers, while also providing data on the absolute number of posts over the
month of January, as well as the average number of likes per post.

Absolute Followers. As it currently stands, three companies have an Instagram
following of over 100K people, with CBDFX leading the pack at 181K. Kush Queen and
GT's Kombucha also look to be well positioned with 168K and 145K followers,
respectively.

# of Posts. Blue Ridge Hemp was the most active over the month of January with 84
posts, followed closely by Hemp Bombs (79 posts) and Pure Hemp Shop (57 posts).
Across the competitive set, the average number of posts for the month of January was
32.

Avg Likes Per Post. In addition to having one of the largest number of absolute
followers, GT’s Kombucha also led the way in average likes per post (1,863). This was
followed by super premium CBD company, Lord Jones, with 1,318 average likes per
post. Not Pot rounded out the top three with 1,257 average likes per post.

We would note that while we consider the below analysis useful in terms of analyzing
social media activity, it should not be used as a proxy for market leadership. Publicly
traded companies such as Charlotte’s Web, CV Sciences and Elixinol have established
themselves as market leaders within CBD, based on distribution / market penetration,
consumer awareness, and brand equity.

Figure 26 Instagram Analysis Reflects Competition From Emerging Brands

100 | Blue Ridge Hemp

80 o*

Pure Hemp Shop

Top CBD Companies by Instagram Followers

= Credo
2 60 GT's
& Beboe
= 40 Kush Queen
é CBDFX Not Pot
5 Sunday Scaries S}
Lord Jones
0 CWHemp — Papa & Barkley Ee
-20 cbdMD | NuLeaf Naturals
0 750 1,000 1,250 1,500 1,750 2,000
Avg # of Likes In January
@ CBDFX @ Kush Queen @GT's @ Credo ®@ Lord Jones ® Beboe
® CWHemp ® Blue Ridge Hemp ® Green Roads ® NuLeaf Naturals Sunday Scaries cbdMD

Papa & Barkley

Pure Hemp Shop Hemp Bombs Not Pot Recess

Source: Instagram and Cowen and Company

Note: Bubble size reflects relative number of Instagram followers

26

COWEN.COM

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024842
