OOK Ok

The fact that Trump and his son-in-law had many things in common did not mean they
operated on a common playing field. Kushner, no matter how close to Trump, was yet a
member of the Trump entourage, with no more ultimate control of his father-in-law than
anybody else now in the business of trying to control Trump.

Still, the difficulty of controlling him had been part of Kushner’s self-justification or
rationalization for stepping beyond his family role and taking a senior White House job: to
exercise restraint on his father-in-law and even—a considerable stretch for the
inexperienced young man—to help lend him some gravitas.

If Bannon was going to pursue as his first signature White House statement the travel
ban, then Kushner was going to pursue as his first leadership mark a meeting with the
Mexican president, whom his father-in-law had threatened and insulted throughout the
campaign.

Kushner called up the ninety-three-year-old Kissinger for advice. This was both to
flatter the old man and to be able to drop his name, but it was also actually for real advice.
Trump had done nothing but cause problems for the Mexican president. To bring the
Mexican president to the White House would be, despite Bannon’s no-pivot policy from
the campaign’s harshness, a truly meaningful pivot for which Kushner would be able to
claim credit (although don’t call it a pivot). It was what Kushner believed he should be
doing: quietly following behind the president and with added nuance and subtlety
clarifying the president’s real intentions, if not recasting them entirely.

The negotiation to bring Mexican president Enrique Pefia Nieto to the White House
had begun during the transition period. Kushner saw the chance to convert the issue of the
wall into a bilateral agreement addressing immigration—hence a tour de force of
Trumpian politics. The negotiations surrounding the visit reached their apogee on the
Wednesday after the inaugural, with a high-level Mexican delegation—the first visit by
any foreign leader to the Trump White House—meeting with Kushner and Reince Priebus.
Kushner’s message to his father-in-law that afternoon was that Pefia Nieto had signed on
to a White House meeting and planning for the visit could go forward.

The next day Trump tweeted: “The U.S. has a 60 billion dollar trade deficit with
Mexico. It has been a one-sided deal from the beginning of NAFTA with massive numbers
...” And he continued in the next tweet ... “of jobs and companies lost. If Mexico is
unwilling to pay for the badly needed wall, then it would be better to cancel the upcoming
meeting ...”

At which point Pefia Nieto did just that, leaving Kushner’s negotiation and statecraft as
so much scrap on the floor.

OOK Ok

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019942
