You and I as One

Any social group can be thought
of as either a collection of individuals or
as a single new entity with emergent,
unified group behavior. When a mob
forms to surge together down a street
one way and then another; when a flock
of birds wheels about together, closely
clustered as they fly without colliding;
and when an orchestra performs with
highly coordinated timing, we
momentarily forget about the individuals
and see the collective behavior as a new,
single social entity. Indeed, as Cacioppo
discusses, many species seem to gather,
flock, and coordinate to form such
collectives. For humans there are many
situations from flash mobs and sports
teams to choirs and audiences, when
people congregate in this way.

The drive for people to affiliate
and group is not sufficient on its own to
produce the coordinated behavior that
emerges from such a collective.
Sometimes an organizing signal, like the
conductor of an orchestra, can
synchronize the behavior. Other times
common goals and behavioral
constraints can synchronize a group, as
in a flock of birds. In his chapter, Giin
Semin discusses how such synchrony
may be self-organizing — that is, it is
achieved without intention, effort, or
awareness by our social brains, even
when there is no clear signal or
constraint. In cases of such human
sociality, the group may act as though it
has a single mind. Indeed, Semin
approaches this issue to relate the
collective behavior as an embodied
consequence of individual social forces
that jointly operate to satisfy our need to
affiliate, and to consider how connecting
behavior through synchrony may create
a collective mind.

Page |65

Howard Nusbaum specifically
discusses a different invisible social
force that has evolved with the power to
bind people into a collective—language.
Language is the richest social signal that
has the power to move people to act and
to move groups to act together. In order
for language to act as a force, it must
somehow affect people with sufficient
social and emotional impact. As
Nusbaum discusses the impact of
language, it operates at a social and
emotional level similar to that discussed
by Semin rather than exclusively
through the inferences drawn from
meaning.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021311
