KR L
PI L

AC EL
CA TA CHAPTER II Cannabis Science 101

As examples of the decarboxylation process, consider the changes to THCA that result from heat
and aging. If the nonpsychoactive THCA naturally present in raw cannabis is heated, it quickly decar-
boxylates into psychoactive THC; this is what commonly occurs when cannabis flower is smoked or
vaporized for its psychoactive effect. THCA may also be stored and aged to produce CBN.

Cannabinoid Boiling Points

Cannabinoids boil at temperatures lower than the temperature at which cannabis flower burns. Based
on this property, vaporizers have been developed to heat cannabis flower to a point at which its active
compounds boil and can be inhaled as vapor but at which point the flower does not combust and create
smoke. The approximate temperatures at which select cannabinoids boil and cannabis flower combusts
are shown in the following table.

Compound Boiling and
Flower Combustion Temperatures

Compound/Flower Temperature (°F)
THCA 220
CBDA 250
THC 315
CBD 355
CBN 365
Flower 450

Smoking cannabis flower remains the most popular form of cannabis consumption, even though
it is believed to destroy as much as 30% of the active cannabinoids and is less efficient than merely
heating the desired compounds to their boiling points. Vaporizers are becoming increasingly sophisti-
cated, and those that can maintain temperatures which target the activation of specific cannabinoids
are becoming popular.

= Terpenes

Terpenes are a class of organic compounds present in cannabis and
many other plants; they are responsible for a plant’s aroma and flavor.
The strong odors produced by terpenes are believed to be part of the
natural defense of many plants. Cannabis contains more than 100 dif
ferent terpenes, which are believed to interact with cannabinoids in a
way that contributes to the medicinal benefits and therapeutic appli-
cations of cannabis. Like cannabinoids, terpenes are present in highest
concentration in the flowers of cannabis plants. (Terpenoids are certain
chemical variants of terpenes, and this report uses the general term
“terpene” to refer to both terpenes and terpenoids.)

Terpenes are believed to interact in various ways with the human

physiology: by acting on receptors and neurotransmitters, combining

© 2017 Ackrell Capital, LLC | Member FINRA/SIPC 23

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024659
