312 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

How often do you hear the phrase, “It's down to tradeoffs,” or “It’s a
matter of priorities’, or even “You can't have your cake and eat it?”

These stock statements misunderstand the infinitely complex nature
of creativity and problem solving. Let us take a concrete example: the car.

My first car was a Volkswagen Polo. It was a great little car, quite
nippy, cassette-radio, and four seats. The most recent Polo has antilock
brakes, airbags, NCAP 5-star crash resistance, smarter styling, and a low
emission engine. Shall I go on...? The doctrine of tradeoffs says I would
have to give up something to gain these new features. But, I have not.
The newer Polo is cheaper in real terms than my original, as well as being
better designed.

Problems always have at least two dimensions of freedom. We can
trade one feature for another or we can innovate to both have our cake
and eat it! We are never constrained to simple on-the-one-hand, on-the-
other-hand type decisions. Creativity is unconstrained by linear rules
and tradeoffs.

Process versus Creativity
How many times have you heard the words, “We must create a process
for this!”

In its place, process is good; It makes things consistent, repeatable
and predictable. You can follow a process by rote without error. Processes
are also easy to document and communicate because they are symbolic.
But process is limited. It is, after all, a set of prescribed rules for solving a
particular problem — and, because of this, it falls into the same trap.

A process cannot solve a problem that requires creative thought or
logic more complex than the logic limit. Logical processes are useful for
tracking lists. I am reassured when I get on an airplane and know the
pilot has been through a preflight checklist. I would not want to fly in an
airplane where the pilot announced he was taking a creative approach to
the preflight check.

Process is a perfect tool for organizing the steps around being
creative, but it won't do the creating for you.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016002
