54 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

ing with Packer naked in a sauna so he could be sure Packer did not
have a recording device (other than his notebook). Appelbaum stated
repeatedly in interviews that he was being spied upon by America.
While his claims might have sounded paranoid to his interview-
ers, as a character in Joseph Heller’s Catch-22 famously said, “Just
because you’re paranoid doesn’t mean they aren’t after you.”

Runa Sandvik, a close associate of Appelbaum’s, also worked
tirelessly to extend Tor’s cloak of anonymity in the private sector
against the surveillance of the NSA and other would-be intruders
of privacy. A Norwegian national in her mid-twenties, she wrote a
well-followed blog on Internet privacy for Forbes in 2012, in which
she identified herself as a privacy and security researcher working
at the intersection of technology, law, and policy. Appelbaum and
Sandvik both came in contact with Snowden before he went public
and while he was still working for the NSA in Hawaii.

In 2012, Snowden become involved in the effort to encourage
the use of Tor software to protect privacy. He made no secret of his
concerns about electronic interceptions. According to an anony-

© mous co-worker, he even wore a jacket to work with a parody of the ©
NSA insignia, which, instead of merely depicting the NSA eagle,
showed the eagle clutching AT&T phone lines. He had also become
a member of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, the digital rights
organization that was helping finance Tor. He saw Tor software as a
remedy. “Without Tor,” he later wrote, “when you walk the streets
of the Internet, you're always watched.” His efforts on behalf of Tor
were not limited to symbolic gestures. In 2012, he set up a two-
gigabyte server called “The Signal,” which he described as the larg-
est Tor relay station exit node in Honolulu. He apparently paid for
it himself.

Through his work as a system administrator for Dell, he found
documents revealing NSA efforts, not yet successful, to defeat Tor’s
ability to camouflage a user’s identity on the Internet. He found that
the NSA was attempting to build backdoor entry ways into Tor soft-
ware. One of the NSA documents that he illicitly downloaded, titled
“Tor Stinks,” described the agency’s continuing efforts to penetrate
Tor servers. In addition, he downloaded NSA documents describing
programs begun in 2012 that aimed at searching the Internet for the

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 54 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019542
