Edwards adv. Epstein
Telephone interview with Virginia Roberts
Page 20 of 23

next thing I knew, I was sent my victim’s letter, my notification of being a victim through
the US Attorney’s Office and that’s when I knew it was well out there enough not to have
Jeffrey’s lawyers come back on me and discredit me in the same way he had done to all
the other girls. So, I called up Joseph Bird who was the recommended lawyers on my
paperwork that they had given me and started going from there.

JS: So you contact Mr. Joseph Bergs’ office and then you were dealing with his office from
that point forward.

V: That’s correct.

JS: Tell me about the ending of your relationship with Jeffrey. That is, at what point in time
did your full time employment end and how did that happen?

V: Ok. So, it hadn’t really ended. I walked away from it all. Jeffrey sent me to Thailand
where I met my husband and escaped to Australia, never to return back to the states.
About 6-months prior to that, he came up with a proposition that I thought was really
disgustingly sick. And it really showed me for the first time in 4 years I had been with
him that nothing was going to change and I was always just going to be used by him(?)
which I did not like. He offered me a mansion and some of his money every month, I
forget what he called it, a monthly income of what he made to bear one of his children.
The proposition was that if anything ever happened between Jeffrey and I, that I would
have to sign my child over to him basically and that the child would be his and
Ghislaine’s, and I would be looking after it as long as nothing happened between Jeffrey
and I. So, I was kind of freaked out by all of that. I pushed Jeffrey more to please get me
some more training, you know, and I was getting older and not of as much interest to
Jeffrey anyways. I was 19 now, and he likes a female a lot younger. So he sent me to
Thailand, in September 2002_. I was first supposed to meet a girl there and bring her
back with me, but I never met up with her. I proceeded get a short course in Thai massage
so that was to shut me up about my training so I went there, and one of my friends from
school invited me to watch a fight, like a muay thai fight, which is like a form
kickboxing. So I went and watched it, and I saw this guy that was a really good fighter,
and a girl’s word, looked really hot, so I asked my friend who knew him to introduce me.
We got introduced and fell in love immediately, 3 days later Rob proposed and 7 days
later I was being married in a buddist temple. I called Jeffrey and told him I’m sorry, I’m
never coming back. I’ve gotten married, I’ve fallen in love. I thought he’d wish the best
for me but he was kind of rude and he just said “have a good life” and hung up the phone,
and that was the last time I'd talked to him ever until all this started again.

JS: Ok. Virginia, is there anything else that you would like to add to what you have told us
up to this point in time?

V: I'd like to know that this time around something’s going to be done about it and that
Jeffrey and a lot of his colleagues, no matter how rich they are, will know that there is

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012126
