anything but isolated. High school
graduates who leave family and friends
for the first time to attend college, on the
other hand, typically experience intense
feelings of social isolation even though
they are physically around more people
than before they left home. Caspi and
colleagues (23) found that perceived
social isolation in adolescence and
young adulthood predicted how many
cardiovascular risk factors (e.g., body
mass index, waist circumference, blood
pressure, cholesterol) were elevated in
young adulthood, and that the number of
developmental occasions (i.e.,
childhood, adolescence, young
adulthood) at which participants felt
socially isolated predicted the number of
elevated risk factors in young adulthood.

Perceived social isolation is
known more colloquially as loneliness,
which in early scientific investigations
was depicted as “a chronic distress
without redeeming features” (24, p. 15).
Loneliness may feel like a painfully
miserable, hopeless, and worthless state,
but we have found it has a specific
structure and a valuable adaptive
function.

Research on the ways in which
people describe themselves when asked
the question, “Who are you?”, reveals
three basic dimensions (25): (1) a
personal, or intimate, self, the “you” of
your individual characteristics; (2) a
social or relational self, which is who
you are in relation to the people closest
to you—your spouse, kids, friends, and
neighbors; and (3) a collective self, the
you that is the member of a certain
ethnic group, has a certain national
identity, belongs to certain professional
or other associations, and a member of
the fan club for certain sports teams.
Similar to the relational self, this part of
the self is social but what makes this self

Page |25

distinct is that these are broader social
identities, linked to larger social groups
rather than individual members of the
groups. When we examined the
dimensions underlying loneliness/social
connectedness, we found the same three
basic dimensions (26): (1) intimate
connection/isolation refers to the
perceived presence/absence of anyone in
your life who affirms you as a valued
person; (2) relational
connection/isolation refers to the
perceived presence/absence of quality
friendships or family connections; and
(3) collective connection/isolation refers
to the perceived presence/absence of a
meaningful connection with a group or
social stimulus (e.g., school, team)
beyond other individuals. When you
perceive you are part of a valued group
(collective connection), for instance, you
may be more inclined to agree with other
group members, even on beliefs that
may seem irrational, than when you are
thinking of yourself as a unique
individual.

Given that human survival and
prosperity depends on inclusion in and
participation with a social group,
especially in evolutionary time when
food was scarce and dangers were
common, there is an adaptive benefit to
having the strong and aversive response
of loneliness when an individual feels
his or her social connections might be
weakening or broken, just as there is a
benefit to having aversive signals for
other conditions critical for survival.
Hunger, thirst, and pain have evolved as
aversive signals to prompt an organism
to change their behavior in a way that
protects the individual and promotes the
likelihood their genes will make their
way into the gene pool. The social pain
of loneliness has evolved similarly — to
serve as a signal that one’s connections

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021271
