JaMES PATTERSON

The Cops

Michele Pagan is now a sergeant for the Palm Beach Police
Department.

In early 2012, at a reception at Mar-a-Lago, Detective Joe
Recarey received the first Palm Beach Police Foundation Police
Officer of the Year award—one of several honors he received in
the course of his twenty-three-year career in Palm Beach. Two
years later, he left the department and took a job as director of
loss prevention for the Gold Coast Beverage company.

“ve been [at the Palm Beach Police Department] longer than
my children have been alive,” he told a reporter for the Palm
Beach Daily News when he left. “I’m going to miss a majority of
the people I’ve worked with, and, obviously, I'm going to miss
the work. This is my extended family. Like many families, you
have disagreements with some family members. But you over-
look that, and you work together and you're a team. I’m going to
look back and miss a lot of the people I've worked with.”

Palm Beach police chief Michael Reiter left the department in
2008 after twenty-eight years on the job. He now runs his own

security company in Palm Beach.

Jean-Luc Brunel

In January of 2015, Jean-Luc Brunel sued his old friend Jeffrey
Epstein, claiming that Epstein’s fall from grace had cost him mil-
lions of dollars in business and caused him “severe emotional stress.”

The lawsuit claimed, “Plaintiff Brunel is emotionally destroyed F .

as a result of Epstein’s actic
ness. He has been on medic
It continues: “Defendar
distress on Plaintiff Brune
under-aged girls, which wa
gal conduct was extreme at
The suit went on to qu
modeling scout had gone in
sense of depression related
in his modeling agency as a
business.” Brunel had go
Rivotril—as a result.

The fashion world had fr.
ship with Jeffrey Epstein had
ble for him to find the “fresh

Brunel acknowledged E
own involvement. “Epsteir
and extreme; they involved
aged girls while the girls w:
of the girls with a finger or «

When the Daily Beast re
Brunel for a comment, the v
is not in town; he’s in South

Brunel’s agency, MC2, is

Jeffrey Epstein

As of this writing, Jeffrey Ej
women at his Manhattan tow

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022181
