TED2017: The future you

https://ted2017.ted.com/program

4/20/17, 12:07 PM

Neesm ay macsopeuy
Grandmaster, analyst

Garry Kasparov is esteemed by many as the greatest chess player of all time. Now he’s engaged in a game with far higher stakes: the
preservation of democracy.

When 22-year-old Garry Kasparov became the world’s youngest chess Grand Champion, few could predict his turbulent career in chess or
as a dissident. His chessboard wizardry was already the stuff of legend when, in 1997, he made headlines when he lost a rematch to IBM’s
Deep Blue supercomputer, ushering AI into the public sphere.

Kasparov’s book Winter Is Coming details the rise of Putin’s Russia as well as Kasparov’s persecution and self-exile, and it serves chilling
warnings of reactionary forces gathering in the West. He is the chair of the Human Rights Foundation, succeeding his predecessor Vaclav
Havel.

kKasparov.com @Kasparov63

Laura Galante
Cyberspace analyst

Laura Galante analyzes how states use cyberspace: a domain where militaries, intelligence services, criminal groups and individuals pursue
their interests with far fewer restraints than in the physical world.

At FireEye, Galante's teams have profiled advanced cyber threats, investigated network breaches and portrayed the political, military and
financial implications of cyber operations. Part of the original Mandiant Intelligence team, Galante has led strategic analysis, developed
intelligence capabilities and offerings, and directed publications including AP728: A Window into Russia’s State Cyber Espionage; Red
Line Drawn: China Recaiculates its Use of Cyber Espionage; and Hacking the Street? FIN4 Likely Playing the Market among others.

In November 2016 she spoke at the UN Security Council’s Arria Formula meeting on cybersecurity and international peace and security.
She frequently appears on and provides commentary to: CNN, Bloomberg, NPR, BBC, Fox News, the New York Times, The Financial
Times, The Wali Street Journal, Reuters, the Associated Press and other global and industry media. Prior to her work at FireEye and
Mandiant, Galante led a contractor team analyzing cyber capability development and military doctrine at the US Department of Defense.
She supported the 2010 US-Russia bilateral information security talks.

fireeye.com @LauralGalante

OK Go
Band

A wildly creative band of music- and video-makers, OK Go is building a media empire on the back of endless, boundless ingenuity.

With a career that includes award-winning videos, New York Times op-eds, a major label split and the establishment of a DIY trans-media
mini-empire (Paracadute), collaborations with pioneering dance companies and tech giants, animators and Muppets, and an experiment that
aims to encode Hungry Ghosts on actual strands of DNA, OK Go continue to fearlessly dream and build new worlds in a time when
creative boundaries have all but dissolved.

The band has been honored with a Grammy, three MTV Video Music Awards (one of them from Japan!), a CLIO, three UK Music Video
Awards, two Webby Awards (including one for their collaboration with The Muppets and Sesame Street) and a spot in a Guggenheim
installation. Their latest video is “The One Moment,” directed by the band's singer, Damian Kulash Jr.

okgo.net @okgo

Tim Ferriss
Human guinea pig, author

Tim Ferriss is author of The 4-Hour Workweek,” a self-improvement program of four steps: defining aspirations, managing time, creating
automatic income and escaping the trappings of the 9-to-5.

Tim Ferris brings an analytical yet accessible approach to the challenges of self-improvement and career advancement through what he
calls lifestyle design.” His 2007 book, The 4-Hour Workweek, and his lectures on productivity are stuffed with moving, encouraging
anecdotes -- often from his own life -- that show how simple decisions, made despite fears or hesitation, can make for a drastically more
meaningful day-to-day experience at work, or in life.

Word-of-blog chatter in Silicon Valley may have propelled his book to bestselling success, but Ferriss himself takes a fervid stance against
the distractions of technology toys that promote unnecessary multitasking. Following the success of his book, Ferriss has become a full-

time angel investor.

Titus Kaphar
Artist

Titus Kaphar's artworks interact with the history of art by appropriating its styles and mediums.

As Titus Kaphar says of his work: “I’ve always been fascinated by history: art history, American history, world history, individual history -
- how history is written, recorded, distorted, exploited, reimagined, and understood. In my work I explore the materiality of reconstructive
history. I paint and I sculpt, often borrowing from the historical canon, and then alter the work in some way. I cut, crumple, shroud, shred,
stitch, tar, twist, bind, erase, break, tear, and turn the paintings and sculptures I create, reconfiguring them into works that nod to hidden
narratives and begin to reveal unspoken truths about the nature of history.

His latest works are an investigation into the highest and lowest forms of recording history. From monuments to mug shots, this body of
work exhibited at Jack Shainman gallery December-Januarv 2017 seeks to collapse the line of American historv to inhabit a fixed point in

Page 2 of 21

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014952
