80 Teaching Minds

within a real and meaningful context works a whole lot better than
shoving it down their throats and following that with a multiple
choice test. But for the vast majority of citizens, Algebra II is never
used.

There is no evidence whatsoever that says that a nation that is
trailing in math test scores will somehow trail in GDP or whatever it
is we really care about. This is just plain silly, but we keep repeating
the mantra that we are behind Korea in math as if it has been proven
that this matters in some way. Nothing of the sort has been proven.
What is true is that there are a great many vested interests that need
to keep teaching math: tutoring companies, testing companies, math
teachers, book publishers, and many others who make lots of money
when people are scared into thinking that their kid won’t get into col-
lege because he or she is bad at Algebra II. Nearly every grownup has
forgotten whatever algebra he or she ever learned to pass those silly
tests, so it is clear that algebra is meaningless for adult life. Any college
professor who is honest will tell you that algebra almost never comes
up in any college course, and when it does come up it usually needn’t
be there in the first place.

So, math isn’t important and history isn’t important. What is
important?

Tests. Tests are very important. Not to me, of course, but my vote
isn’t being counted.

The past two presidents have been obsessed with raising test scores.
I am assuming this is true because some political analysts somewhere
have determined that the general public believes in the significance of
raising tests scores and will vote for politicians who are able to show
that they have done it. There can’t be any other reason. Try taking
those tests. Most of them are available online. See how well you can
do at them.

But what could really be wrong with testing and emphasizing test
scores?

TESTING TEACHES THAT THERE ARE RIGHT ANSWERS
The problem is that in real life, the important questions don’t have an-

swers that are clearly right or wrong. “Knowing the answer” has made
school into Jeopardy. It is nice to win a game show, but important

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023826
