&6 Teaching Minds

SOME SUBJECTS ARE MORE IMPORTANT THAN OTHER
SUBJECTS

Yes, we have electives. But they don’t matter. Because accountability
means making sure that we first teach what does matter. What mat-
ters is the stuff that we are holding people accountable for. Since this
seems to be math and science these days, for no good reason I can
discern, this means that we will get to the stuff that would excite kids
and keep them in school, and might teach them some job skills, after
we are done with the important stuff. But I am certain that none of
the politicians mentioned in the Times article knows the quadratic
formula or the elements of the periodic table, which is, of course, the
stuff of accountability since it is so easy to test. Then how can that be
the important stuff?

ALL IMPORTANT SUBJECTS CAN BE EASILY TESTED

Yes, there are right answers in math. But are there right answers in
whether we should have invaded Iraq? No? Does that mean we can’t
teach how governments actually work and how to get reasoned argu-
ments to be heard? Is there a right speech political candidates should
make? Does that mean we can’t ask students to give speeches because
we can’t easily assess them? Do we teach only subjects for which there
are clear right answers? We do now, which is one reason why school
is a deadly experience for one and all and will remain so as long as ac-
countability is the key word in government.

SEEING WHO DID BETTER THAN WHOM IN SCHOOL IS AN
INTRINSIC PART OF THE EDUCATIONAL PROCESS

It really is all about competition, isn’t it? Bush, both Clintons, and
Obama are all the winners of the school competition. They went to
Ivy League schools, which seems to be the real issue for most parents.
I taught at Ivy League schools and I was profoundly unimpressed
with the test- taking, grade-grubbing students I found there. The goal
of education is not to say who won, and it is not to tell Harvard
whom to admit. The goal is provide real-world skills, some of which

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023832
