xiv Preface

how to make decisions, understand how to approach a problem, or
otherwise live sensibly. Teachers are never shocked to be asked to pro-
vide personal or professional advice to a student having a problem—
any problem. If one takes one’s job seriously, teaching means being
available to help. But this important advisory job is confused by lesson
plans, and class hours, and lectures, none of which matter very much.

Why do I say that these things don’t matter very much? This is the
essence of what this book is about—the move from content-based in-
struction to cognitive-based learning, assisted by good teaching. This
means we will have to define this “new” kind of learning (it’s not re-
ally new, of course, just new to schools) and the “new” kind of teach-
ing that is a natural consequence of using this new learning method.

Most teachers understand and appreciate that delivering the re-
quired material is not their real job, at least it is not the reason they
signed on in the first place. The employers of teachers, on the other
hand—administrators, governments, department heads, and so on—
expect certain material to be covered. Exciting students is not on their
worry list. This is a big problem for teachers and for students, and one
that we will address here.

But my more serious concern is our conception of learning, not
teaching. Teaching follows one’s conception of learning so getting
learning right is of prime importance. When I said earlier that outsid-
ers to the learning profession wouldn’t get the real point, I was being
ironic. There is no learning profession. Why not?

In 1989, I moved from Yale to Northwestern to establish a new
institute, funded by Andersen Consulting, devoted to issues of chang-
ing training and education by the use of new technologies. I needed a
name for the institute and came up with The Institute for the Learning
Sciences. I made up the term learning sciences. There was no such field
in academia. Most people thought I meant we were planning to work
on how people learned science. The only academic fields that “stud-
ied” learning were psychology and education. Psychology, being an
experimental field, allows faculty to work only on experiments about
learning that provide data in a controlled environment. Education
faculty study how schools work and very rarely think about learning
outside of the school context or in a way different from the paradigm
already extant in schools. I wanted to create a learning profession. In
1989, there certainly didn’t seem to be one.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023744
