Department, and in return was given PBPD baseball hats to put on the dashboard of his various cars to avoid
being stopped or ticketed by local police. Retired Police Chief Michael Reiter, in his own deposition,
acknowledged that, in addition to earlier donations to the police department (which are fairly common in well-
heeled Palm Beach), Epstein had recently given the department $100,000 for some sophisticated equipment.
The police were still researching the purchase when Epstein came under suspicion, and Reiter ordered the
money returned. (Guy Frostin, one of Epstein’s local attorneys, told police that Epstein also gave $100,000 to
the Florida Ballet for massages, because he was “very passionate” about massages being “therapeutically and
spiritually” beneficial. Yet victims told police they had no massage training.)

Perhaps most disturbing, in terms of possible sex trafficking, was Epstein’s relationship with Jean Luc Brunel,
owner of the MC2 modeling agency. According to a complaint filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of Florida, an alleged victim said that Epstein, Maxwell, Brunel, Rodriguez, and Marcinkova
“deliberately engaged in a pattern of racketeering that involved luring minor children through MC2, mostly
girls under the age of 17, to engage in sexual play for money.” (Which would amount to trafficking.)

Brunel is a 50-plus French playboy who was formerly part owner of Karin, a Paris-based modeling agency. He
lives in New York and South Beach, Florida, and owns 85 percent of MC2, which has offices in New York,
Miami, and Tel Aviv. (The remaining 15 percent is owned by his partner, Jeff Fuller.) Brunel has been
observed as a house guest at Epstein’s Palm Beach home and may well have had contact with him also in New
York, where Epstein owns a lavish home, and in Paris, where Epstein keeps an apartment on elegant Ave. Foch.
CBS reporter Craig Pyes, who investigated Brunel for a 60 Minutes broadcast many years ago, is quoted in
Michael Gross’ book about the modeling industry, Model: The Ugly Business _of Beautiful Women. Pyes told
the author that Brunel “ranks among the sleaziest people in the fashion industry. We’re talking about a
conveyor belt, not a casting couch. Hundreds of girls were not only harassed but molested.” Now The Daily
Beast has learned that Epstein had made a $1 million wire transfer to Brunel’s offshore bank account in
September 2004, just as he was setting up MC2. Whether this was a gift or a loan or a backdoor investment in
the new venture is unknown. A French citizen who managed to avoid giving evidence in the Epstein
investigation, Brunel declined to comment on any of this, as does Fuller. Asked in April of Brunel’s activities,
Epstein said “I’m 100 percent convinced that he doesn’t traffic children.” (Brunel has never been charged.)
An American fashion designer who booked her girls through MC2 says they were very young and very
beautiful; many were from Eastern Europe and spoke little English. A former bookkeeper in the agency’s
Miami office, who also arranged visas for girls traveling to the U.S., confirmed that MC2 girls became
frequent guests on Epstein’s private jets.

Pilot logs obtained in the civil suits show that some of the named plaintiffs were on the flight manifests. Other
times, the pilot would just list the other passengers plus female.”

Posted 02 August 2010 - 12:47 AM

Jeffrey Epstein, Jew Billionaire Pedophile, Child Trafficker Goes Free..WoW! 20 year old Hearsay is enough to destroy catholic priest. What happened here to the justice

system?

Conchita Sarnoff

http://www.thedailyb...hile- goes-free/

Conchita Sarnoff has developed multimedia communication programs for Fortune 500 companies and has
produced three current events debate television programs, The Americas Forum, From Beirut to Kabul, and a
segment for The Oppenheimer Report. She is writing a book about child trafficking in America.

Hedge fund mogul and sex offender Jeffrey Epstein, who went free this week, lived in a depraved world of
thrice-daily massages, pornographic artwork, and hush money—that’s only now being revealed. Conchita
Sarnoff follows up on her investigation of the legal wrangling that saved him from a long prison term and
reports on the sordid details in part two of her exclusive exposé. Also:

* Palm Beach’s police chief objected to Epstein’s “special treatment” and gave The Daily Beast an exclusive

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029769
