CHAPTER VI
U.S. and International
Cannabis Market Estimates

= Global Market Overview

Cannabis is the most widely cultivated, produced, trafficked and consumed drug worldwide, accord-
ing to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC). In 2003, the UNODC estimated
that the global illegal cannabis market was $113 billion, with 160 million consumers. The UNODC
continues to estimate the number of cannabis users worldwide and recently estimated that 183 million
people globally between the ages of 15 and 64, or more than 4% of this age group, consumed cannabis
in 2015.

In 2010, the RAND Corporation (RAND) estimated that the U.S. illegal cannabis market was
$40 billion. Adjusting this estimate solely for inflation and population growth, the U.S. illegal market
would now be approximately $48 billion.

Both the UNODC and RAND acknowledge the challenges inherent in studying an illegal con-
sumer market, and both allow significant room for error in their estimates. However approximate,
their estimates make clear that there is significant global demand for cannabis. Less clear is how quickly
illegal markets will transition to legal markets, as well as the extent to which legalization may increase
overall demand.

The Legal Cannabis Market: Key Growth Drivers

We believe that numerous factors will increase consumer penetration rates and the overall size of the
legal cannabis market. Such factors include the following.

U.S. Federal Legalization. We believe it is a question of when, not if, cannabis becomes federally
legal. We predict six developments on the path to federal legalization: (1) the FDA will begin approv-
ing individual pharmaceutical-grade drugs derived from cannabis; (2) more states will adopt medical
cannabis laws; (3) more states will adopt recreational laws; (4) the FDA will adopt routine approval
procedures for drugs with extracts of low-THC/high-CBD cannabis varieties; (5) the FDA will adopt

© 2017 Ackrell Capital, LLC | Member FINRA/SIPC 103

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024739
