4/15/2019 Case 1:19-cv-033 FP Bstwiers tes stilfaen OFT /Arsteip Aye 3 of 4
Dozens of women alleged that Epstein molested and raped them when they were underaged using a

sophisticated human trafficking network. A civil trial is scheduled to begin on Tuesday in Palm Beach

County that may finally let these women tell their stories in court.

Behind the scenes: While he was allegedly raping teenage girls, Epstein cultivated cozy relationships

with America's elites.

e Bill Clinton flew on Epstein's plane, nicknamed the Lolita Express, numerous times, according to

flight logs.

e And Donald Trump, ina profile with New York magazine written several years before the police

wom

caught up with Epstein, praised his friend as a terrific guy.” It is even said that he likes beautiful

women as much as I do, Trump said of Epstein, and many of them are on the younger side.
¢ Dershowitz was also friendly with Epstein before the broader public knew he was a pedophile.

Dershowitz confirmed to me that he received a massage at Epstein's Palm Beach home, adding

that the woman who provided it was of legal age.

e What happened was I, um, he lent us, this was well before any of this thing came out, he lent us
his house once. And I was there, my grandchildren were there, my daughter was there, and we all

got massages.”

e And, um, it was therapeutic. I had a therapeutic massage with an old old Russian, but I never
never ... and that was part of when we had his house for about a week during I think it was

Christmas vacation.

e Believe me, if I had known that anything improper had ever taken place in that house, I never
would have allowed my children, my grandchildren, my wife, my daughter-in-law, my son, to have
spent time there. I can tell you categorically there were no inappropriate pictures, no

inappropriate anythings. It was like any other house.

One of Epstein's accusers, Virginia Roberts, has claimed Dershowitz had sex with her when she was

underage. Dershowitz has denied the allegation and told the Miami Herald the story was 100 percent

flatly categorically made-up so she could get money.”

Go deeper: Trump defender Dershowitz shunned by Martha's Vineyard

V

https:/Awww.axios.com/alan-dershowitz-jeffrey-epstein-legal-advice-1a13ad59-a718-46c9-981 3-11231604a387.html 2/3

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018017
