11:21 PM (13 hours ago)

to me

Jeffrey,

I created applications one week ago at NDCAS ( doctor of naturopathic medicine centralized application
service ) and VMCAS ( veterinary medical college application service ) ,working on my application
material , requesting evaluations letters and etc.

On Tuesday I am going to the job interview, working on my resume today .

P.s.- [hope I will get finally the results from Chinese proficiency exam today /tomorrow.

On Sat, 7 Apr 2018 at 07:54, jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote:

no concrete progress. for a year. sorry, it cannot go on this way

Date: Wed, Jun 1, 2016 at 5:41 PM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella iii

As i said yesterday, pointing out places where 1 think my friend might be taking unnecesarry risks has
become tedious and trying. Structures that have been set up 2 years ago. were done so to give you
protection and flexibility, NOT FOR ME< for YOU _ they required hiring stafff that could manage
these complex entities. you told me over the past two years that as 1 set them up i should be responsible
for their operation. That was never the deal , never. I have heard after -care etc for quite a while. in
dec when you unilatierally decided to pay me much less than our agreed amount , we agreed NO MORE
money discussions NO MORE after care. The silliness has reached its pinnacle when you suggest 1 am
responsible for the lack of sophisticaiton and thoughtfulness of the 1031 transactions that NO one even
told me about. asked my advice or gave me any notice at all before the fact. same as the structure for the
CAlif house. I would remind you , though Heather is great, it was not she that modified the gagosian
contract to give you the protection that resulted in your having no liablity, though you tell me she has
done these things many times.

3. Remind me to talk to you about MR

Date: Tue, Nov 15, 2016 at 6:13 AM

Subject: Fwd:

To: Melanie Spinella >

Leon, Congragulations on biting the bullet. at least 18 months late , but I m encouraged and glad for
you. When you interviewed Brad two years ago you asked that i not tell him what a disaster lay before
him. what would you like me to tell Barry?

There is a HUGE amount of work to be done in the next 9 -12 months. mostly the exact same work
that i outlined in my email of 2 years ago. now complicated by years of mess on top. ( you can send it
again if you like ). Brad wechsler was never up to the task . sorry, I realize I have been saying the very
same thing for a long time. he was a not a step up from Eileen but a step sideways. in the beginning
there was Eileen and Tom and Ralph Lerner. all your hand picks. then brad. john, Joe. . joslin was
chosen from a pool of 2 people. each that would be limited by a salary of 250k. ( yes 1 personally
augmented his comp in order to get him )_ I did say hire both Lisa to do the bookkeeping and joslin tax,

He complained for over a year , re his direction by eileen and ada , and then brad. His breakdown was
not a surprise after months and moths of warnings. Though disabled, he ran your office this year. with
john and joe. He ran amok, and asi told you he rarely failed to remind me in our conversations that you
told him that he works for you and not for me and that brad needs to pays him .

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023239
