However, the ways in which sociopaths differ from psychopaths is key to
understanding their evolutionary utility. For example, psychopaths are more likely
than the general public to be violent and to end up incarcerated. Narcissistic
sociopaths, on the other hand, are usually nonviolent and happy to work within a
system of laws and norms, insofar as it suits their goals, because, while they do not
hesitate to harm others, it isn’t a specific aim. Instead, they are highly motivated
toward the accumulation of riches and influence; whereas psychopaths are often
motivated toward sadistic self-gratification and generally do not seek positions of
power and wealth per se. (There is some crossover between these phenotypes and
sociopaths who do find gratification in hurting others are labeled malignant
sociopaths.) Finally, narcissistic sociopaths always seek reproductive success
through procreation and aggressive nepotism, which is usually accompanied by
extreme in-group identification, e.g. racism, xenophobia, and nationalism, while
psychopaths show no allegiance to family, community, or country.

Therefore, the phenotype of the narcissistic sociopath is not a bizarre combination
of traits, but rather a set of highly attuned social skills and behaviors aimed at
increasing long-term biological fitness through wealth, status, power, and the future
success of progeny. In order words, sociopaths are highly adapted. The evolutionary
puzzle is not found in the phenotype itself but rather in the interaction of sociopaths
with the society in which they exist. Social groups can detect dishonest and
manipulative behaviors and act to punish the actors in order to either correct the
antisocial behavior or remove them from the group. Dozens of mammal species
have shown this very sophisticated and elastic social behavior, but humans and our
close relatives are especially apt at detecting and punishing cheaters, freeloaders,
and liars.

This sets up both a short-term conflict and long-term evolutionary battle between
manipulative narcissistic sociopaths and the rest of society, that is, those who do not
wish to be manipulated. Most individuals in a society share a vested interest in
maintaining fairness and social order. The equilibrium point is reached through a
concept called frequency-dependent selection, the essence of which is that
phenotypes can sometimes have distinct advantages precisely because they are rare.
Under this paradigm, the infrequency of sociopaths in a population is essential to
their success.

Current estimates place the prevalence of narcissistic sociopathy at 1-2% and
scholars have held that this rate appears stable across societies and over recorded
history (insofar as such a phenotype and its frequency can be inferred from
historical sources). This makes sociopathy a candidate phenotype for frequency-
dependent selection, especially given how successful they often are. The rarity of
narcissistic sociopaths in the population, along with their considerable skill in
hiding their true motivations, makes them very difficult to detect. If they were more
numerous, however, members of society would become familiar with this particular
pattern of social deviance and quickly learn to neutralize it. Furthermore, when
narcissists encounter one another, while they may be willing to cooperate with each

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_033324
