market thoughts

The great rotation

There is an awful lot being written about the next bursting
bubble, which, according to pundits, is fixed income. The

fear is either that inflation very quickly begins to
reaccelerate because of monetary policy and central banks
will need to aggressively slam on the policy brakes, or that
investors are going to begin a Great Rotation out of fixed
income.

The Great Rotation scare being talked about argues that
individual investors will apparently all wake up one day and
collectively sell their bonds to buy stocks. For individual
investors, it’s very unlikely that we will see selling of core
bonds until investors actually lose money—and we don’t
expect that to happen soon. In our portfolios next year, we
envision owning more world equity markets, and owning
less cash and short-duration fixed income. So | agree with
the risk rotation, but a mad dash by individual investors out
of fixed income seems unnecessary and unlikely.

The balancing act for central banks is to try to stimulate
growth without provoking inflation. There is enough excess
capacity in labor markets that the greater policy concern
remains disinflationary pressure. While we are keeping a
close eye on inflation expectations, which have been
rising, our economics team continues to believe inflation
comes after growth and therefore isn’t a threat to this
cycle of easy monetary policy. We expect the Fed,
European Central Bank and Bank of Japan will continue to
promote “easy money.”

There is going to be an inflation shock that will come with
accelerating growth—we just don’t see it next year. But in
preparation for that scenario, our team has already begun to
do work on the theme of inflation protection.

Inflation expectations remain stable
5Y5Y forward breakeven inflation

4%
3%
2%
1%

2009 2010 2011 2012

Source: Bloomberg. Data as of November 2012.

U.S. inflation is not yet troubling
U.S. CPI YoY NSA

4%
3%
2%
1%
0%
-1%
-2%
-3%
2009 2010 2011 2012

Source: Bloomberg, Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Data as of November 2012.

Now what?

We invest with a 12-month outlook, but also take advantage
of short-term trading opportunities. But to borrow a phrase
from my daughter, patience is the key to joy. Into year-end,
markets face higher uncertainty and weaker activity. We are
going to see more headlines, unfortunately with less real
news. In the short term, both issues will extract a higher risk
premia from risk assets, which should create some
interesting opportunities.

For where we believe the macro cycle is right now, we
want to be increasing our allocation to equities as we look
into 2013. We continue to barbell those equity allocations
between the United States, which continues to lead the global
recovery, and emerging markets, where we see significant
growth potential. While we have added to our exposure in
Europe and continue to see scope for investment opportunity
ahead, we don’t feel it’s a market that is gapping away from us.

We are also doing tactical work in our hedge fund allocations.
We are looking to be more directional in our risk taking
next year, particularly looking at long/short and event-
driven strategies. In fixed income, we continue to like
credit, but need to be more selective. We are looking at
total and absolute return fixed income strategies that can be
more nimble in how they invest duration. We expect to hold
less short-duration and cash next year across portfolios.

AS a last mention, for anyone looking for a timely read, | just
finished William Silber’s book about Paul Volcker. It is great
context for how we got to where we are today and a
reminder that while the past doesn’t ever exactly repeat
itself, it does rhyme. It’s also a subtle reminder of why
strong leadership and bipartisan counsel are essential for
effectively navigating the road ahead.

| very much look forward to our ongoing investment
dialogue with you.

Richard Madigan
November 2012

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030842
