bunch of tariffs that will completely decimate how we trade, and Jared wants to deal with
human trafficking and protecting Planned Parenthood.” And Priebus wanted Donald
Trump to be another kind of Republican altogether.

As Walsh saw it, Steve Bannon was running the Steve Bannon White House, Jared
Kushner was running the Michael Bloomberg White House, and Reince Priebus was
running the Paul Ryan White House. It was a 1970s video game, the white ball pinging
back and forth in the black triangle.

Priebus—who was supposed to be the weak link, thus allowing both Bannon and
Kushner, variously, to be the effective chief of staff—was actually turning out to be quite a
barking dog, even if a small one. In the Bannon world and in the Kushner world,
Trumpism represented politics with no connection to the Republican mainstream, with
Bannon reviling that mainstream and Kushner operating as a Democrat. Priebus,
meanwhile, was the designated mainstream terrier.

Bannon and Kushner were therefore more than a little irritated to discover that the
unimposing Priebus had an agenda of his own: heeding Senate leader Mitch McConnell’s
prescription that “this president will sign whatever is put in front of him,” while also
taking advantage of the White House’s lack of political and legislative experience and
outsourcing as much policy as possible to Capitol Hill.

In the early weeks of the administration, Priebus arranged for House Speaker Paul
Ryan, however much a Trumpist béte noire for much of the campaign, to come into the
White House with a group of ranking committee chairmen. In the meeting, the president
blithely announced that he had never had much patience for committees and so was glad
someone else did. Ryan, henceforth, became another figure with unfettered access to the
president—and to whom the president, entirely uninterested in legislative strategy or
procedures, granted virtual carte blanche.

Almost nobody represented what Bannon opposed as well as Paul Ryan. The essence
of Bannonism (and Mercerism) was a radical isolationism, a protean protectionism, and a
determined Keynesianism. Bannon ascribed these principles to Trumpism, and they ran as
counter to Republicanism as it was perhaps possible to get. What’s more, Bannon found
Ryan, in theory the House’s policy whiz, to be slow-witted if not incompetent, and an easy
and constant target of Bannon’s under-his-breath ridicule. Still, if the president had
unaccountably embraced Priebus-Ryan, he also could not do without Bannon.

Bannon’s unique ability—partly through becoming more familiar with the president’s
own words than the president was himself, and partly through a cunning self-effacement
(upended by his bursts of self-promotion)—was to egg the president on by convincing him
that Bannon’s own views were entirely derived from the president’s views. Bannon didn’t
promote internal debate, provide policy rationale, or deliver Power-Point presentations;
instead, he was the equivalent of Trump’s personal talk radio. Trump could turn him on at

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019973
