162

In 2016, the chair of the Human Rights Committee of the German Parliament was
told he would not be allowed to visit China with the rest of the committee if he did
not delete a report from his home page on Tibetan flags being hoisted at German town
halls. The committee refused to go on the trip.

Academia

More than one hundred thousand Chinese nationals live in Germany, most of them
students. Intense exchanges take place between universities, research institutes,

and think tanks, as well as between scholars in many areas, both natural and social
sciences. Similar to academics from other countries, several German researchers and
academics with a reputation of being critical toward the Chinese government have
been denied visas or access to interlocutors in China. China in general targets junior
scholars for cultivation. Contacts are initiated from China with invitations to join
research projects, apply for grants, attend conferences, and write articles with the
promise that they will be published.

A notable instance of coercion occurred when the publishing company Springer Nature
removed an estimated one thousand publications from its Internet catalog for China
because their titles might not coincide with official political positions of Beijing. So far,
Springer has yet to reverse its decision, unlike Cambridge University Press in a similar
instance.

German universities host twenty Confucius Institutes (out of approximately 160 in
all of Europe). Like their counterparts elsewhere, they invest more in gaining general
sympathy in German civil society through cultural activities than in advancing an
overtly political agenda (which does occur, although rarely). There are fifty-eight
Chinese Students and Scholars Associations in Germany that are well organized and
seemingly well funded.

Civil Society

Chinese officials regularly complain about the negative attitude toward China in the
German public, proven by polls, but do not yet tackle the problem directly. Activities
in the PRC by German nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and political
foundations are increasingly confined in their activities, not only through China’s
new NGO law but also because former Chinese partners are reluctant to cooperate.

In a letter to the interior ministries of German federal states, the Chinese embassy
requested that communities be asked not to hoist Tibetan flags on Tibet Day
(March 10). In some cases, ministries complied, but in the majority of cases they
did not. Almost none of the communities complied. The Chinese embassy in Berlin

Appendix 2

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020621
