Sabbarian grid of permission obviously did not cover driving on the free way to the
mental health center.

It is the splitting of us from them that leads to the breakdown in empathy and
compassionate identification with others. Studies of the dominance of direction of
rotation within a closed space in small mammals have shown that amphetamine-
induced intensification makes the choice of right versus left (or left versus right)
rotation, broken symmetry, more statistically significant. In contrast, the Hefner
Foundation of Switzerland has shown that entheogenic drugs such as psilocybin in
man facilitate seeing both of the conflicting, simultaneously presented, right eye and
left eye images in place of the usual dominance of just one of the two
representations. A precondition of compassion might be that a person’s brain be
able to see and comprehend both or several sides of apparently conflicting points of
view at the same time. The Fundamentalists do not see things that way. In the
Koran, Mohammed says, “...give sustenance to the poor man, the orphan, the
captive...and for the unbelievers We have prepared fetters and chains and a
blazing fire....” In the New Testament’s Mark we find the final words of the risen

tt

Jesus, “...whoever believes and is baptized will be saved but whoever does not
believe will be damned.” The Crusaders’ claimed scriptural support for their
murderous marches to reclaim Jerusalem.

Carl Jung wrote about the New Testament’s Revelations in his Answer to
Job: “...a terrifying picture that blatantly contradicts all ideas of Christian humility,
tolerance, love of your neighbor and your enemies and makes nonsense of a loving
father in heaven and rescuer of mankind. A veritable orgy of hatred, wrath,
vindictiveness and blind destructive fury that revels in fantastic images of terror
breaks out...overwhelming a world which Christ endeavored to restore to the
original state of innocence and loving communion with God...” As Princeton
University philosopher, Walter Kaufman, has noted in his Religion in Four

t

Dimensions “...compassion for unbelievers is implicitly condemned and

proscribed...Augustine argued expressly against compassion for the damned and

Luther used invectives against his (religious) enemies...” How can this be God’s

145

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013645
