the knee jerk of the standard neurological examination. Such phenomena were
already well known in the late 1930’s in what W.R. Hess and later John Flynn,
following electrical stimulation of cats in the lateral hypothalamus, called
“hypothalamic rage.” In the late 1940’s and 1950’s, work by National Institutes of
Mental Health’s Paul MacLean attributed it to the actions of parts of the emotional
“limbic” brain, particularly the fear-rage-attack coloring of experience by the
temporal lobe’s amygdaloid nucleus. Modern imaging studies in man have shown
that this source of emotional coloring is activated by new information, even before
the more rational parts of the neocortical brain processes it. How we feel about
something new arises before what we think about it. These survival-oriented states
of fight or flight are known to be biologically universal and demonstrable in even
single cell organisms.

A greater contribution to my brain metaphysics followed observations that
after several seconds of stimulation of other brain stem sites, the cats became alert
but quiet, staring into space for several minutes. Then, they circled slowly and
curled up on the ground. This was followed by several minutes of grooming and
loud purring. Difficult to handle cats became transiently tame, some coming close
for petting. | found that these same sites also increased the amplitude and reduced
the threshold for the cat’s knee jerk reflex. Responsiveness increased with
calmness. Particularly interesting was the finding that electrical induction of this
purring state could immediately stop on-going stimulation-induced episodes of
hissing rage. | referred to these experiments with my friends as my
neurophysiological studies of Old Testament vengeance and New Testament
forgiveness. It seemed that the hissing rage would produce eye for an eye and a
tooth for a tooth hypertension, the talon principle of the Old Testament and Koran.
New Testament forgiveness would yield low blood pressure health and Jesus was a
healer. It was about this time in the early 1950’s that Northwestern University social
psychologist, Jim Olds, found that rats could be trained to push levers to obtain
current delivery via electrodes in various parts of their brains. Shortly after, Joseph
Brady, then of the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, showed that squirrel

monkeys would do the same. With depth electrodes attached to wires running to a

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013516
