and growth stage investors attractive conditions for both new investments and exits
from existing investments for the foreseeable future.

The Fund Managers view this alignment of critical market factors as unprecedented. Each of
these factors individually has a direct impact on the level of risk and the potential for returns in
the healthcare technology sector. However, the positive trends in all of them occurring at the
same time should create a uniquely positive environment to execute NLV-II]’s targeted strategy
within the sector.

INVESTMENT STRATEGY

New Leaf’s investment strategy is differentiated in the venture capital industry in terms of its
sector focus, specific approaches within each sector, and the depth of experience and long-term
track record that supports each element of the strategy. The Fund’s primary focus will be on
investments in the Biopharmaceutical and Information Convergence sectors, with a secondary
focus on Medical Devices and Biological Research Tools & Infrastructure. Investments will
be predominantly in the U.S., but could include a small number of investments in other parts of
the world (e.g., Western Europe or Canada). The focus within each sector will be the following:

Biopharmaceuticals: As in NLV-I and NLV-II, biopharmaceutical investments will be the core
focus for NLV-III and will comprise approximately 50% - 60% of the Fund. The Fund will
typically invest in development stage and commercial stage private companies and in publicly
traded small capitalization companies where the investments will be made mostly through
structured transactions. The portfolio will emphasize companies developing targeted
therapeutics that address molecular mechanisms of disease, where validated biomarkers can be
utilized to positively bias probabilities of success and reduce time and cost of development
compared to historical averages. These companies exemplify some of the key characteristics the
Fund Managers seek across the portfolio - namely large, unmet medical needs, strong science,
well differentiated technologies and high quality pre-clinical and clinical development
programs led by experienced management teams.

The Fund Managers believe that NLV-III will have the opportunity to invest in compelling
biopharmaceutical opportunities and that these will have attractive risk-return profiles for a
number of reasons, including the following:

e For the past decade, biopharmaceutical companies have been shifting their research and
development focus towards products that target mechanisms of disease at the molecular
level. Clinical programs for these types of products are typically smaller, more capital
efficient and have higher probabilities of success. These improvements are achievable
because precise biomarker testing enables a focus on only those patients where the
specific molecular mechanism is known to play an important role in the disease process.
By including only these patients in the clinical programs for these targeted products, the
probability of detecting critical efficacy signals is significantly increased, even with
relatively small numbers of patients;

e Targeted development programs are benefiting from an improving regulatory
environment, as the FDA is demonstrating clear interest in working constructively with

companies to bring these types of high-impact therapeutics to market more quickly and
efficiently. This spirit of cooperation was covered thoughtfully in a recent New England

6 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024017
