geometries” are not related to each other essentially, either in the mathematical or
physiological domain, but are often made vaguely equivalent on the basis of their

lexical similarity.

An experimentally meaningful relationship between fractal statistics (hazard),
dynamical fractals (dimension) and fractal geometries (form), has to be proven ona
case by case basis and not assumed from their common designation. Among the
informal attempts to do this have been those that involve the branching pattern of
nerves and the associated reductions in their diameter-dependent characteristic
conduction velocities yielding a multiplicity of “arrival times.” There is, however, a
more central idea common to these concatenated meanings of fractal: the
statistical, dynamical and geometric expressions of “scaling,” a word which is not
mentioned in Mandelbrot’s book titles. The cluster of theories, theorems and
methods associated with the idea of scaling (and renormalization) have led to Nobel
Prizes for Flory (1971), Wilson (1975) and de Gennes (1979) and the (equivalent
mathematical) Field’s Medal for McMullen (1994). There is speculation that the last
two awards were supported by the inspiration and interest given their research by

Mandelbrot’s intuitions and books.

Scaling laws take the place of (unknown causal) physical laws by indicating
the proportion by which observables of a system can be changed in relationship to
each other such that some statement about them, “this varies with that,” still holds.
In a cross species comparison, as the average weight of a mammalian body, called
lb, increases, the skeletal weight, called w, increases at an exponentially greater
rate: w goes like Ib'°® where Ib'° would indicate that they grew across species at
the same rate. Plotting log (Ib) on the x axis and log (w) on the y axis in a log-log
plot results in a straignt line with a slope that indicates the power law scaling
relationship between body weight and skeletal weight across mammals. The slope
of the scaling exponent of 1.08 is a little over 45 = 1. In contrast, the metabolic rate,

0.75

r, goes like (Ib)°”, r ~ (Ib)°”°. Larger animals (relative to their weight) have lower

basal metabolic rates (Schmidt-Nielsen, 1984). We don’t completely know the chain

of intervening mechanisms that relate these variables to each other but we do know

225

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013725
