Twelve Cognitive Processes That Underlie Learning 47

transfer across domains but not that much. (Learning to buy an air-
plane ticket is somewhat related to eating in a restaurant, but not that
closely. You might use a credit card in each, for example, and might be
refused service because you are rude.)

2. Modeling: Building a conscious model of a process

We need to learn how things work. A citizen knows, presumably,
how voting works. Someone looking for venture capital should know
how fund raising works. Processes need to be learned in order to ef-
fectively participate in them and in order to propose changes in them.
Building a conscious model of a process matters a great deal if you
want to make the process work for you. If you want to get into col-
lege, you need to understand how the process works. This cannot be
learned from experience in a serious way because one may do it only
once and may not be able to experience the entire process. Having
the process explained to you may not work that well either because
this will not bring an operational understanding of it (as opposed to
a more superficial understanding of it). Designing it, modifying it,
and participating in simulations of it work much better as learning
methods.

3. Experimentation: Experimentation and replanning based on
success and failure

This is probably the most important learning process we engage
in while living our lives. We make life decisions and we need to know
when we need to change something. There are big decisions—like
getting married or how to raise a child or whether to change jobs—
and little decisions, such as changing your diet or your sleep habits.
We make our decisions on the basis of what has worked before and
what has failed to work. We tend to make life decisions without much
knowledge. We don’t know how our bodies work all that well and we
don’t really know how the world works or what it has in store for us.
Thinking about these issues and learning from failure is a pressing
need all through life. Learning to analyze what has worked out and
what has not and why is part of living a rational life. These things can
be learned by living and talking about our experiences, thus creating a
database of stories that we can rely on later. We learn by talking with

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023793
