4.2.12
WC: 191694

The First Amendment has undergone more change in the past fifty years than it had in the first
170 years of its existence. Most of the changes have been for the better, such as the virtual
elimination of offensiveness as a justification for censorship, and the severe limitations placed on
defamation actions against public figures. I’m proud of the role I have played in helping bring
about these positive changes.

There are several areas, however, where the First Amendment remains in grave danger. One of
them is the use of threatened violence to impose self-censorship, if not governmental censorship.
Although the “fighting words” doctrine has always imposed a limitation on freedom of speech, it
had been considerably weakened both in theory and in practice until the recent advent of radical
Islam, with its threats to kill anyone who insults their religion or their prophet. These threats have
been accompanied by murders in several parts of the world. As a result, publishing houses have
been reluctant to include material that might give rise to threatened violence. Following the
publication by several Scandinavian newspapers of cartoons that depicted Mohammad, there were
threats of death and acts of violence. This led the Yale University Press to decide not to include
these cartoons in an academic book about the controversy. This act of censorship was not
brought about by any governmental pressure, since the First Amendment would clearly protect
the publication of the cartoons. It was brought about by the self-censorship of the publishing
house growing out of fear that publication would result in violence. This phenomenon gives those
who threaten violence an effective veto over what can be published in the United States.

The opposite side of the private self-censorship coin is the private circumvention of governmental
censorship. Private hacking groups such as “Anonymous” will do everything in their power to
thwart governmental censorship of any kind, including the use of unlawful means, even violence,
to subvert or retaliate for legitimate restrictions on publication. This means that the future battles
for freedom of speech are likely to be fought on private as well as governmental battlefields and
may well involve violent actions on all sides.

The future battlefields will also be international, since the internet respects no national boundaries.
This new phenomenon has resulted in efforts to internationalize the censorship of material deemed
offensive to Islam and other religions. Various agencies of the United Nations have proposed, in
the name of “multiculturalism,” severe restrictions on the right to criticize controversial cultural
and religious practices deemed sacred by some and offensive by others. Eternal vigilance is
essential to the preservation of rights that many Americans take for granted. The struggle for
freedom of speech—like the struggle for other liberties—never stays won.

On balance, the First Amendment remains relatively healthy and vibrant in America and continues
to serve as a model for many emerging democracies. The same cannot be said about our criminal
justice system, to which I now turn.

157

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017244
