Middle East Conflicts and Tensions Persist: The
Middle East will remain a source of conflict for
years to come. Many countries have weak or
collapsing nation-state structures with varying
degrees of civil war. As Zalmay Khalilzad,
former ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq and

the United Nations, and president of Gryphon
Partners, wrote recently, “the national borders
devised by Western powers for Iraq and Syria, in
particular, are not standing up well to the test of
time ... and Pakistan’s policies have contributed
to Afghanistan’s precarious condition.”” Iran
and Saudi Arabia compete for influence in the
region, and the Sunni-Shia divide that was not a
geopolitical factor 40 years ago will continue to
escalate tensions in the region.

Another potential risk in the region is the
dismantling of the Iran nuclear deal by the Trump
administration.”° In the absence of a deal, Iran
would return to building its nuclear capabilities,
thereby increasing the risks of a military strike by
Israel or the US.

We assign a low probability to such an event
for two reasons. First, we point to comments made
by secretary of defense nominee retired General
James Mattis, which suggest a different approach
in dealing with Iran.’”’ In a speech in April 2016 at
the Center for Strategic and International Studies,
Mattis said “there is no going back” on the deal
“absent a clear and present violation.”’* Second,
other signatories to the deal, including Russia and
China, would not support a unilateral dismantling
of the deal by the new administration.” That is not
to say that tensions between the US and Iran will
not continue this year.

Turmoil in the region will continue into 2017
and beyond. While the direct impact of such
conflicts on global growth and world equity
markets is limited outside a war among major
powers, the threat posed by terrorism is significant
and growing.

Terrorism Escalates

Another high-probability but uncertain-impact
risk is increased terrorism. The Middle East has
been the main source of terrorism even before the
September 11, 2001, attack on the World Trade
Center. The majority of the 9/11 perpetrators,

15 out of 19, were from Saudi Arabia, with the
rest from other Arab countries in the region.
Since then, the spread of ISIL, the Syrian civil
war, extremism in Pakistan and Afghanistan, and

the immigration of Arabs and North Africans
to Europe and, to a lesser extent, the US, have
increased the incidence of terrorism in the West.

In 2016, there were five key terrorist incidents
in the US and 15 in Europe, including a December
19 attack when a truck rammed into a Christmas
market in Berlin.** Some of the terrorists
responsible were inspired by ISIL,** and some were
lone-wolf Islamic extremists who had lived in their
respective countries for years. With a growing
number of refugees in Europe, it is highly likely
that this pace of terrorism will continue.

Terrorist attacks and geopolitical tensions in
the Middle East take more than their immediate
human toll. While consumer confidence in the
US is now above the pre-global financial crisis
peak of July 2007 (see Exhibit 25), Gallup Poll
data shows that dissatisfaction remains at a very
high level, similar to that at the beginning of
the global financial crisis. As shown in Exhibit
26, the dissatisfaction rate increased steadily in
the aftermath of the 9/11 terrorist attacks and
the US wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. It had
already reached current levels before the global
financial crisis.

Former Federal Reserve Chairman Ben
Bernanke has named traumatic national shocks
such as 9/11 along with political polarization
and “shrill” political debates as possible culprits
of the contradictory signals between the high
levels of consumer confidence as measured by
the Conference Board and the high levels of
dissatisfaction as measured by Gallup Polls.™

Risks of continued terrorism are very high,
but the broader economic impact of the type of
terrorist acts we witnessed in 2016 is limited. We
can only hope that large attacks such as 9/11 do
not occur again.

Cyberattacks Continue

High-profile cyberattacks or cyberattack
announcements were a regular feature of 2016.
The highest-profile attacks were those perpetrated
by the Russian government on the Democratic
National Committee computer network, according
to a joint statement from the Department of
Homeland Security and Office of the Director

of National Intelligence on Election Security.®
The US government expelled 35 Russian officials
and imposed sanctions on four high-ranking
members of the Russian military intelligence unit
as a result.*

30 | Goldman Sachs | JANUARY 2017

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014563
