Code Enforcement Board Meeting Minutes 04/17/08

MOTION BY MR. FRIED TO ASSESS A FINE IN THE AMOUNT OF
$100.00 A DAY FOR FOUR (4) DAYS FOR VIOLATIONS (A) FOR A
TOTAL OF $400.00 AND A FINE IN THE AMOUNT OF $250.00 A DAY
FOR VIOLATIONS (B), COMMENCING ON APRIL 15, 2008 AND
CONTINUING UNTIL COMPLIANCE IS ACHIEVED.

SECONDED BY MR. OCHSTEIN

During discussion on the motion, Mr. Fried told Ms. Fisher that although they
appreciated her testimony, fines had a way of giving people incentive and it was in
the Board’s discretion to reconsider the fine if compliance was done in an
appropriate time. Mr. Koeppel said he was going to make a similar comment
especially in a case such as this one where one form of repair was anticipated and
it became something significantly different. He thought the Board needed to take
that into consideration.

MOTION PASSED UNANIMOUSLY

IX. Comments:

Mr. Fried said he wanted to revisit the subject Mr. Raffo had enjoyed so much over the
past couple of months, regarding outstanding fines. He requested an update on the
progress made in collecting some of them. Ms. Houston advised the outstanding water
restriction fines had been reduced to $6400.00 this month from over $9000.00 due the
previous month and liens were in the process of being filed for the remainder that had not
been paid. The non-running fines either had liens filed or were agenda items which are
pending. Cases that had substantial fines and were not homesteaded would be looked at
for foreclosure proceedings. The list of the daily running fines indicated which of those
properties were homesteaded and Ms. Houston indicated she anticipated bringing some of
those non-homesteaded properties to the Board for foreclosure consideration next month.

Mr. Fried asked about the motion made by Mr. Raffo at the last meeting, requesting the
Town Council to address the issue of giving final authority for foreclosure action to the
Code Enforcement Board. He asked for an update from Mr. Randolph or Ms. Houston as
to whether this would appear on the Town Council agenda. Mr. Randolph asked if the
minutes of that last meeting had been sent to the Town Council and Ms. Houston told him
those were the minutes that had just been approved today by the Board so they would
now be sent to the Town Council. Mr. Randolph said since these minutes had now been
approved, he would go ahead and call them to the attention of Peter Elwell and ask him to
agenda it on the next meeting of the Council. Mr. Fried asked that the outstanding fines
be prioritized for foreclosure starting with the largest ones first. Ms. Houston said she
would address the oldest and the largest outstanding fines first. She said she had also
waited, based on the motion from the last meeting because it would be a different
procedure if it was just brought to the Code Enforcement Board for approval or if it came
to them for final action. Mr. Randolph said it was his understanding that the Code
Enforcement Board wanted final approval as set forth in State Statute rather than just

13

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016614
