182 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

We know from our childhood that infinity plus one is still infinity.
Is there anything we can do to make infinity bigger? Perhaps multiplying
infinity by infinity will do the trick.

Infinity times infinity can be visualized as a square with edges of
infinite length. We can show that this square is the same size as a one-
dimensional infinity through a clever trick — the zigzag method. Mark
the infinity square into a grid. Start in the corner square, go across,
diagonally down, then across, diagonally up, and so on. I'll draw you
a picture. We visit every square in our grid using a single line. We can
then lay down our infinite zigzag line next to the infinite line of one
of the edges. The lines are the same length as they are both infinitely
long! So infinity, times infinity, can be matched to infinity, they are the
same. Cantor thought this a very strange result and wrote to a fellow
mathematician, Dedekind, “Je le vois, mais je ne le crois pas!”, “I see it,
but I don't believe it!”

If you are struggling with this, don’t worry. We just jumped forward
to quite a complex concept. Let’s take it more slowly. One way to get a
better grip on infinity is through the stories of David Hilbert and the
Infinity Hotel.

Infinity for Dummies

Hilbert’s Hotel is a mythical building with an infinite number of rooms.
Other than this strange feature it is a regular hotel complete with
minibar, dodgy TV, and slightly mad manager. The rooms are numbered
sequential starting at one, then two, three, four, and so on. The hotel
allows you to play a series of mathematical games to see how infinity
behaves.

Are there the same number of minibars as there are rooms? That's
easy. I said every room has a minibar. We can use the matching technique
to match minibars with rooms. Go to the first room. There is a number
on the door and a minibar inside. The same goes for room 2 and 3 and
this goes on forever. I’ve just proven two infinite things are the same -
rooms and bars, but I still have not shown you why the zigzag line is the
same length as the edge line.

When you first explain infinity to a child they immediately ask
“What's infinity plus one.” A particularly smart kid I met, Dermot, asked,
“What's infinity plus three?” Hilbert’s Hotel allows us to answer this
problem in a way we can visualize.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015872
