‘ERSON

srovide a massage. He knew
and were of high school age.
ssages. He felt there was a lot
2s.
Epstein’s bedroom after the
liscover massagers/vibrators
floor. He also said he would
+ toys and put them away in
> armoire as a small wood
close to Epstein’s bed. On one
guez to go to the Dollar rent a
girl he brought the roses to, so
| Epstein’s house without inci-
always needed rides to and

en folder which contained doc-

Epstein’s stationery with direc-

's to [Mary’s] High School after

nance....

investigation, subpoenas were
ome phone records from several
with the cell phone records of
if these records was conducted
hone calls were made between

ms. These records indicate the
re consistent with the dates and
stated they were contacted. Spe-

showed Kellen called [Wendy
times and dates when [name
ent occurred. Kellen also coordi-

Firtyy Ric

nated the encounters with [name redacted] during the time
frame the girls stated they occurred.

Pursuant to a lawful subpoena I obtained Epstein’s pri-
vate plane records for 2005 from Jet Aviation. The plane
records show arrival and departure of Epstein’s plane at
Palm Beach International airport. These records were com-
pared to the cell phone records of Sarah Kellen. This compar-
ison found that all the phone calls Kellen made to [Dobbs]
and the victims were made in the days just prior to their
arrival or during the time Epstein was in Palm Beach.

Therefore, as Jeffrey Epstein, who at the time of these

incidents was fifty one years of age, did have vaginal inter-
course either with his penis or digitally with [names
redacted], who were minors at the time this occurred, there
is sufficient probable cause to charge Jeffrey Epstein with
four counts of Unlawful Sexual Activity with a Minor, in vio-
lation of Florida State Statute 794.05(1), a second degree fel-
ony. As Epstein, who at the time of the incident was fifty two
years of age, did use a vibrator on the external vaginal area
of [name redacted], a fourteen year old minor, there is suffi-
cient probable cause to charge him with Lewd and Lascivi-
ous Molestation, in violation of Florida State Statute 800.04
(5), a second degree felony.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019201
