84

Daily pays $250,000 for each insert in major US dailies. In 2009, the Global Times (48k
AY#R), part of the People’s Daily group, started an English-language newspaper as well.

Chinese investment in the US media market is not limited to the central government.
Chinese provincial media firms also have a footprint in the United States. Sky Link TV
(K Fi) is one example. It is fully owned by Guangzhou Media American Co, Ltd.
(2B RSA IRAs), which, in turn, is owned by GZ Television Media (7 N#WMERA
BR4S]), a Chinese state-owned media outlet. Sky Link’s story also illustrates the switch
from Taiwan money to mainland money in the US Chinese-language media world. Sky
Link was established in 1989 by a Taiwanese corporation. In 2009, it was purchased by
a private Chinese company; three years later, the Chinese state-owned GZ Television
Media bought Sky Link TV, a takeover that was hailed by the PRC’s Ministry of
Commerce as a key “cultural export” in 2014.'* When Sky Link TV reports on China,
the Sino-US relationship, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and other important issues concerning
China, it follows and quite often repeats verbatim the official line from PRC media. Its

major business partners include CCTV and Xinhua.

The Grand Overseas Propaganda Campaign has continued under the regime of General
Secretary Xi Jinping, who, in his 2014 New Year’s address, called on all media friendly
to the CCP to “better tell China’s story.” In March 2018, the Party announced plans

to unite these individual efforts into a mammoth overseas-facing propaganda organ,
known as the Voice of China, by merging the foreign operations of China Global
Television Network, China National Radio and China Radio International.” (It is not

clear whether the parallel with the Voice of America was intentional.)

Despite all of these efforts, President Xi still appears to be unsatisfied with the Party’s
efforts to “grab the right to speak.” In August 2018, the Chinese government announced
a shake-up in its propaganda organs, reflecting significant concern at the heart of the

Party that China was not winning its ideological battle with the West.”°

Diaspora Media

In the early 1990s, the state-owned China News Service and the Overseas Chinese Office of
the State Council dispatched editorial personnel to the United States to found the Chinese-
language TV broadcaster, SinoVision, and the newspaper Qiaobao (448). Shanghai's
Xinmin Wanbao sent staff to the United States to start up an American edition as
well. Chinese officials backed this push as part of an effort to fight back against the
negative publicity generated by the Party’s crackdown on protests around Tiananmen

Square on June 4, 1989,

Media

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020543
