Case No.: 502009CA040800XXXXMBAG
Edwards' Opposition to Epstein's Motion for Summary Judgment
Page 6 of 15

undisputed facts submitted by Mr. Edwards in support of his Motion for Summary Judgment, Edwards
had a sound legal basis for believing that Donald Trump, Allen Dershowitz, Bill Clinton, Tommy
Mattola, David Copperfield and Governor Bill Richardson had relevant and discoverable information
(Exhibit “A” — Edwards’ Statement of Undisputed Facts, paragraphs 69-81). That belief was reinforced
by the testimony of Virginia Roberts (Exhibit “D” pp. 10-17, 21-23). Epstein’s assertion of impropriety
in the pursuit of this discovery clearly evidences his bad faith attempts to attribute wrongdoing to
Edwards when he knew, in fact, that the pursuit of that discovery was entirely appropriate under the
circumstances of this case.

Finally, any attempt by Epstein to rely upon what he claims are undisputed facts to support his
Motion for Summary Judgment are undermined by his refusal to provide any testimony on the key issues
and evidence which would demonstrate the validity and strength of each of the claims brought against
him by Brad Edwards. Epstein’s depositions of March 17, 2010 and January 25, 2012 were replete with
refusals of Epstein to testify based upon his Fifth Amendment privilege. Questions that Epstein refused
to answer in his depositions and the reasonable inferences that a fact finder would draw and which would
otherwise bear on the arguments submitted by Epstein in support of his Motion for Summary Judgment

are as follows:

e Question not answered: “I want to know whether you have any knowledge of evidence
that Bradley Edwards personally ever participated in devising a plan through which were
sold purported confidential assignments of a structured payout settlement?” Reasonable
inference: No knowledge that Brad Edwards ever participated in the Ponzi scheme.

e Question not answered: “Specifically what are the allegations against you which you
contend Mr. Edwards ginned up?” Reasonable inference: No allegations against Epstein
were ginned up.

© Question not answered: “Well, which of Mr. Edwards’ cases do you contend were
fabricated?” Reasonable inference: No cases filed by Edwards against Epstein were
fabricated.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013309
