4.2.12
WC: 191694

The science of eliciting false confessions: the case of Jonathan Doody

Another murder case that never seems to end involves a man named Jonathan Doody, the son of a
Thai mother and an American soldier, who was accused of the mass murder of nine Buddhist
Monks and nuns in Arizona back in 1991. They were placed on the floor in a circle and
systematically shot in the head, apparently by a group of armed robbers. Originally, a motorcycle
gang was suspected of the crime. After a lengthy interrogation, four of them confessed, but it
soon became clear to the police that they had been pressured into making false confessions and
they were freed.

Doody, who was 1_ at the time, was then arrested and subjected to a similarly pressured 12 hour
interrogation. The police began by giving him his Miranda warnings: you have the right to
counsel; you have the right to remain silent; and anything you say can and will be used against you
in the court. They then proceeded, gradually, to “demirandize” him, by taking back everything
they had originally said! You have a right to an attorney “if you were involved in [the murders]”;
anything you “tell us” is “gonna stay right here” and not be used “in court;” and “you just have to
open up” —that is confess—and we will keep you here until you do. Finally, the exhausted _
year old confessed to being involved with the motorcycle gang—which the police knew was
untrue—and to participating in the killings. Based largely on this questionable confession, he was
convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment.

When I first became involved in the case, I decided to do my own investigation. The murder
scene was near a United States Airbase and I learned that Russia was selling some of the Soviet
Union’s old satellite photographs of the United States. I bought the photographs for the day and
location of the murder in the hope that perhaps they might show evidence that people other than
Doody were responsible for the crime. Unfortunately, the sky was overcast that day and the
photographs were useless. We would have to limit ourselves to making arguments based on the
record of the trial, with an emphasis on how the police had elicited the confession from Doody. I
did extensive research on the “science”—or “art”—of eliciting confessions from reluctant
suspects. I learned how the interrogators place objects from the crime scene in view of the
suspect, how they suggest answers, how they create an atmosphere of intimidation and
omniscience, and how they contrive to turn the Miranda warnings to their own advantage.

I argued the initial appeal, along my brother Nathan’s office in 19__. The Arizona Supreme
Court affirmed the conviction. My brother’s partner, Victoria Eiger, then took prime
responsibility for preparing a federal writ of habeus corpus. My brother and I worked closely
with her. The matter simply sat before the federal judge for ___ years, before she rendereda___
page decision denying relief. We then appealed the denial to a panel of the United States Court of
Appeals for the 9 Circuit, which reversed Doody’s conviction in a 2-1 decision that ruled his
confession involuntary and ordered him to be freed, unless the state granted him a new trial. The
state then appealed the reversal to the entire 9 Circuit, which set the case down for argument
before 11 judges. They also ruled in Doody’s favor by a vote of 9-3. Still the case was not over.
The state sought a writ of certiorari from the Supreme Court which remanded the case back to
the 9 Circuit for reconsideration in light of a recent Supreme Court decision. The 9 Circuit
reconsidered and once again threw out Doody’s conviction on the ground that the confession was

200

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017287
