se emotions

experielice Bane s Social
think 4's Ssceihs mn

has agent actually Peop! le
feel oye share
wweabl
. rps cite! €O y):
OG therefore

Chapter 10°

Seeing Invisible Minds

Shortly after taking off from
LaGuardia airport in the dead of winter,
the engines of US Airways flight 1549
failed after inhaling several large geese.
The pilots glided their plane onto the
Hudson River, where all of the

'© The lead author is Nicholas Epley, Ph.D., a
Professor of Behavioral Science at the University
of Chicago Booth School of Business. His
research investigates people’s ability to reason
about others’ minds, from knowing how one is
being judged by others to predicting others'
attitudes, beliefs, and underlying motivations,
and the implications of systematic mistakes in
mind reading for everyday social interactions.
His research has appeared in more than two
dozen journals, has been featured by the Wall
Street Journal, CNN, Wired, and National Public
Radio, among many others, and has been funded
by the National Science Foundation and the
Templeton Foundation. Epley has written for the
New York Times, produced lectures for the
Financial Times, been elected as a Fellow of the
Association for Psychological Science, and is the
winner of the 2008 Theoretical Innovation Prize
from the Society for Personality and Social
Psychology.

Other minds are inherently invisible.
You cannot see an attitude, smell a belief, or
touch an intention, and yet you can nevertheless
“see” these mental states in other people with
great ease. You can even see them in agents
ranging from pets to gadgets to gods. How you
are able to see other minds, and how they
become visible, matters because it marks the
difference between treating others as human
beings worthy of moral care and concern versus
treating others as objects or animals.

Page |93

passengers were rescued, cold, wet, and
almost completely unharmed. Explained
one passenger, “God was certainly
looking out for us.” New Orleans Mayor
Ray Nagin offered a very different
assessment of God’s mind following the
devastating impact of Hurricane Katrina
when he explained that, “Surely God is
mad at America. Surely he’s not
approving of us being in Iraq under false
pretense. But surely he’s upset at Black
America, too.”

Depending on your own beliefs,
such statements will seem somewhere
between insane and insightful. To
psychologists, they seem impressive.
They seem impressive not because they
reveal a keen sense of causal inference,
but rather because they reveal what may
be the most impressive capacities of the
social brain—the ability to reason about,
or “to see,” what other minds see.
Introspection enables you to know your
own intentions, report on your own
thoughts, feel your own pain, and
recognize when you are feeling shame
rather than guilt. Other minds, however,
are inherently invisible. You cannot
know what it is like to be another person
on the inside because your skull gets in
the way.

The inherent invisibility of other
minds poses a major problem for hard-
nosed philosophers, who skeptically note
that people cannot infer that other minds
exist at all. Although it is surprisingly
difficult for philosophers to reject the
skeptical conclusion from the “other
minds problem,” almost everyone else
casts it aside altogether some time
around the age of five. At this point
people have developed such a strong
capacity to think about other minds that
they not only see minds in other people,
but they seem to see other minds almost
everywhere’. Gods can be caring or

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021339
