and become his replacement—and indeed, eleven days later Lewandowski would be gone.

All this was part of the background to one of the most preposterous meetings in
modern politics. On June 9, 2016, Don Jr., Jared, and Paul Manafort met with a
movieworthy cast of dubious characters in Trump Tower after having been promised
damaging information about Hillary Clinton. Don Jr., encouraged by Jared and Ivanka,
was trying to impress his father that he had the stuff to rise in the campaign.

When this meeting became public thirteen months later, it would, for the Trump White
House, encapsulate both the case against collusion with the Russians and the case for it. It
was a case, or the lack of one, not of masterminds and subterfuge, but of senseless and
benighted people so guileless and unconcerned that they enthusiastically colluded in plain
sight.

OOK Ok

Walking into Trump Tower that June day were a well-connected lawyer from Moscow,
who was a likely Russian agent; associates of the Azerbaijani Russian oligarch Aras
Agalarov; a U.S. music promoter who managed Agalarov’s son, a Russian pop star; and a
Russian government lobbyist in Washington. Their purpose in visiting the campaign
headquarters of a presumptive major party nominee for president of the United States was
to meet with three of the most highly placed people on the campaign. This meeting was
preceded by an email chain addressed to multiple recipients inside the Trump campaign of
almost joyful intent: the Russians were offering a dump of negative or even incriminating
information about their opponent.

Among the why-and-how theories of this imbecilic meeting:

¢ The Russians, in organized or freelance fashion, were trying to entrap the Trump
campaign into a compromising relationship.

¢ The meeting was part of an already active cooperation on the part of the Trump
campaign with the Russians to obtain and distribute damaging information about
Hillary Clinton—and, indeed, within days of the Don Jr. meeting, WikiLeaks
announced that it had obtained Clinton emails. Less than a month later, it started to
release them.

¢ The wide-eyed Trump campaign, largely still playacting at running for president—
and with no thought whatsoever of actually winning the election—was open to any
and all entreaties and offers, because it had nothing to lose. Dopey Don Jr. (Fredo, as
Steve Bannon would dub him, in one of his frequent Godfather borrowings) was
simply trying to prove he was a player and a go-to guy.

¢ The meeting included the campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, and the campaign’s
most influential voice, Jared Kushner, because: (a) a high-level conspiracy was
being coordinated; (b) Manafort and Kushner, not taking the campaign very

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020076
