CHAPTER 64

oberts Giuffre, filed on
rneys representing Jeffrey
\ed) ©

r Alan Dershowitz was around
witz was so comfortable with the
t on one occasion he observed me
ein.

urse with Dershowitz at least six
vhen I was about 16, early on in
dit continued until I was 19.

ad sex took place in New York in
Epstein’s room (not the massage
y sixteen years old at the time. I

knew he was a famous professor

at I had sex with Dershowitz was F

Beach.

Fittuy Ricw

24. I also had sex with Dershowitz at Epstein’s Zorro
Ranch in New Mexico in the massage room off of the indoor
pool area, which was still being painted.

25. We also had sex at Little Saint James Island in the
U.S. Virgin Islands.

26. Another sexual encounter between me and Dershow-
itz happened on Epstein’s airplane. Another girl was present
on the plane with us.

27. I have recently seen Alan Dershowitz on television
calling me a “liar.” He is lying by denying that he had sex
with me. The man I’ve seen on television, described as a for-
mer law professor, is the same man that I had sex with at
least six times. Dershowitz also knows that Epstein had sex
with other underage girls and lent me out to other people,
but he is lying and denying that....

28. After years of abuse and being lent out, I began to
look for a way to escape. I had first gone into Epstein’s house-
hold because I wanted to be a massage therapist. Epstein had
taken me into his clutches through promises and talk and for
some time I believed him. But once he had me under his con-
trol, regardless of my doubts and fears, I felt trapped.

29. I kept asking Epstein for my promised training and
education. Epstein finally got me a plane ticket to Thailand
to go to Chiang Mai to learn Thai massage. This sounded
like my chance to escape. In September 2002, I packed my
bags for good. I knew this would be my only opportunity to
break away.

30. On September 27, 2002, I flew from JFK in New York
to Chiang Mai, Thailand. I arrived around September 29 for

4 my training. But Epstein was going to get something out of

245

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022142
