342 A Glossary

grounded by images of cats, experiences of interactions with cats, imaginations of being a
cat, etc.

e Symbolic: Pertaining to the formation or manipulation of symbols, i.e. mental entities that
are explicitly constructed to represent other entities. Often contrasted with subsymbolic.

e Syntax-Semantics Correlation: In the context of MOSES and program learning more
broadly, this refers to the property via which distance in syntactic space (distance between
the syntactic structure of programs, e.g. if they’re represented as program trees) and se-
mantic space (distance between the behaviors of programs, e.g. if they’re represented as
sets of input/output pairs) are reasonably well correlated. This can often happen among
sets of programs that are not too widely dispersed in program space. The Reduct library
is used to place Combo programs in Elegant Normal Form, which increases the level of
syntax-semantics corellation between them. The programs in a single MOSES deme are
often closely enough clustered together that they have reasonably high syntax-semantics
correlation.

e System Activity Table: An OpenCog component that records information regarding
what a system did in the past.

e Temporal Inference: Reasoning that heavily involves Atoms representing temporal in-
formation, e.g. information about the duration of events, or their temporal relationship
(before, after, during, beginning, ending). As implemented in CogPrime, makes use of an
uncertain version of Allen Interval Algebra.

e Truth Value: A package of information associated with an Atom, indicating its degree
of truth. SimpleTruthValue and IndefiniteTruthValue are two common, particular kinds.
Multiple truth values associated with the same Atom from different perspectives may be
grouped into CompositeTruthValue objects.

e Universal Intelligence: A technical term introduced by Shane Legg and Marcus Hutter,
describing (roughly speaking) the average capability of a system to carry out computable
goals in computable environments, where goal/environment pairs are weighted via the length
of the shortest program for computing them.

e Urge: In OpenPsi, an Urge develops when a Demand deviates from its target range.

e Very Long Term Importance (VLTI): A bit associated with Atoms, which determines
whether, when an Atom is forgotten (removed from RAM), it is saved to disk (frozen) or
simply deleted.

e Virtual AGI Preschool: A virtual world intended for AGI teaching/training/learning,
bearing broad resemblance to the preschool environments used for young humans.

e Virtual Embodiment: Using an AGI to control an agent living in a virtual world or game
world, typically (but not necessarily) a 3D world with broad similarity to the everyday
human world.

e Webmind AI Engine: A predecessor to the Novamente Cognition Engine and OpenCog,
developed 1997-2001 — with many similar concepts (and also some different ones) but quite
different algorithms and software architecture

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013258
