James PATTERSON

In the meantime, Epstein began to settle out of court with his

victims.

In Februar
Jane Doe #2 brought a fifty-million-dollar lawsuit against Epstein.

At the time of their meeting, she claimed, Epstein was fifty-two
years old. She was a teenager, and her complaint, which was
made public, gave the rest of the world an early glimpse of what
the inner workings of his secret world, looked like

y of 2008, a Virginia woman who went by the alias

Epstein, and
from a victim’s perspective.

“Epstein is a financier and money manager wi
aires,” the lawsuit alleged.

th a secret cli-

entele limited exclusively to billion
“He is himself a man of tremendous wealth, power and influ-
ence. He maintains his principal home in New York and also
owns residences in New Mexico, St. Thomas and Palm Beach,
FL. The allegations herein concern Epstein’s conduct while at his

lavish estate in Palm Beach.” The complaint continued:

Upon information and belief, Epstein has a sexual preference
and obsession for underage minor girls. He engaged in a plan
and scheme in which he gained access to primarily economi-
cally disadvantaged minor girls in his home, sexually
assaulted these girls, and then gave them money. In or about
2004-2005, Jane Doe, then approximately 16 years old, fell
into Epstein’s trap and became one of his victims.

Upon information and belief, Jeffrey Epstein carried out
his schemes and assaulted girls in Florida, New York, and on
his private Island, known as Little St. James, in St. Thomas.

Epstein’s scheme involved the use of young girls to recruit

192

F-

underage girls. (Upon inf
who brought Jane Doe to
of Epstein, and will ther
plaint.) Under Epstein’s
ostensibly to give a weal
compensation in his Pal
would be contacted when
Palm Beach residence or
Epstein or someone on hi
to bring one or more un
recruiter, upon informatic
economically disadvantag
Palm Beach County who
being offered— generally
session—and who were p
to authorities or have cre
conduct were made. Thi
Epstein’s plan.

Epstein’s plan reflected
Upon arrival at Epstein’s
would be introduced to Sar
gathered the girl’s persona
and telephone number. Ms
up a flight of stairs to a be
table in addition to other
graphs of nude women lin
bedroom. The girl would tl
with Epstein, who would b
then remove his towel and
and direct the girl to remov

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010533
