Ahraleh Yariv, in the command post for our mission, atop a hill on the Israeli
side of the northern border.

The sun set at around seven, but we waited for darkness. It was nearly eight
when we set out. Twenty minutes later, we crossed the border. I led the way,
with Motti Nagar, Moshiko, Kuti Sharabi and, finally, Avi Telem behind. We
carried the bugging equipment and our tools in our backpacks. Avi and I had a
pair of binoculars. Mine were bulkier, but offered a slightly better view in the
darkness. Each of us had an Uzi and a pair of grenades. All our planning had
been aimed at getting on to the Golan, installing the bug and getting out again. If
all went well, no one would even know we’d been there. But we had practiced
what to do if things went wrong. If challenged or ambushed by a Syrian patrol,
we would operate by old Company A rules. We would open fire.

The climb onto the plateau wasn’t too tough, not nearly as hard as our
sayeret training treks. When we reached the top, there was no obvious sign of
any Syrians. Still, we had to move slowly. Even with my binoculars, I could see
barely 30 yards into the moonless night, and I had to scan the route ahead, back
and forth, to make sure there were none of the fences or warning signs to keep
the Syrians’ own soldiers, or unsuspecting shepherds, from a minefield. Soon,
however, we found an obviously well-used footpath which I figured was very
likely to be safe.

When we had walked a few minutes, we found ourselves going through a
tangle of bushes and reeds, some of them up to two feet high, still dry and
crackly from the summer. Aside from the risk of tripping, I knew the noise we
were making might attract attention. I told the rest of the team to hang back 20
yards behind me. I moved forward to make sure the route was clear before
signaling them to follow. I had been slightly nervous on the climb up, not so
much because I expected trouble but because there was no way of knowing
what to expect. Much as I tried to put the concerns of the generals from my
mind, I also knew that this was no ordinary mission. But almost immediately,
the nerves had gone, and I was now focused only on getting us through the next
minute, the next 20 or 30 yards of the Golan.

But as soon as we’d made it across the plateau, we ran into trouble. We
needed to cross the Banias River. On our map, I’d picked out what looked to be
a Shallow ford. But the water was much higher than we expected. After
spending 30 minutes scouting the bank for 150 yards in either direction, we
settled on what seemed to be the shallowest part. Yet we hadn’t anticipated the
need to cross a river in full flow. Worse, we’d never trained to do it. Not had we

68
HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_027916
