Escape Artist | 85

focus on him as the sole perpetrator of the leak so that no one else at
the NSA would be suspected.

Poitras and Gellman were not the only journalists involved in
the news event. Poitras also asked Appelbaum to help her interview
Snowden about the NSA’s operations. She later said that she needed
someone with technical expertise in government surveillance to test
the bona fides of Citizen Four. She believed that Appelbaum, who
had participated in her anti-NSA presentations in 2012, qualified for
the position.

Snowden previously had contact with Appelbaum. Appelbaum
had communicated with Snowden under his Oahu CryptoParty alias
about an obscure piece of software just a few weeks after Snowden
had met with Runa Sandvik in Hawaii in December 2012. Appel-
baum, in fact, had worked with Sandvik as a core developer of Tor
software. Snowden allowed Appelbaum to put detailed questions to
him concerning the secret operations of the NSA before he met with
Poitras and Greenwald in Hong Kong. Indeed, Poitras joined him
in asking Snowden via encrypted e-mails such questions as “What

© are some of the big surveillance programs that are active today ®
and how do international partners aid the NSA?” “Does the NSA
partner with other nations, like Israel?” and “Do private companies
help the NSA?” Snowden answered all the questions to the satis-
faction of Appelbaum and Poitras. (The interview was published on
July 8, 2013, with Snowden’s approval on the website of Der Spie-
gel, the German weekly, which had also published the WikiLeaks
documents.)

As the days ticked away while Snowden was waiting for Green-
wald in Hong Kong, Greenwald was awaiting a green light to go
there from Janine Gibson, the editor of the Guardian website, who
was based in New York. Under Gibson’s leadership, The Guardian's
website had effectively “gone into the business of publishing gov-
ernment secrets,” as the Guardian columnist Michael Wolff pointed
out. Most of the documents had been supplied by Bradley Man-
ning via WikiLeaks. Few if any of these previous documents The
Guardian published were highly classified, and none were SCI top
secret documents. The NSA documents Greenwald had received

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 85 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019573
