of the imagination and heritage, and of the nostalgic dream of restoring the
Islamic caliphate.
The concept of the state

Today’s debate within Hamas over the concept of the state is more
concrete than theoretical. The political conditions in the Palestinian
territories do not allow for dreaming about unrealistic grand theories being
promoted by some Islamist movements. Hamas is facing real-world
problems that require real-world solutions. The Palestinian state being
envisioned by Palestinian, Arab, and world politicians is based on the June
1967 borders. But does that fit Hamas’s political vision and intellectual
orientation? Generations of Islamists have been raised on the concept of
the “Islamic state,” which is synonymous with the Islamic caliphate. But
Hamas’s situation is a little different. Israel’s occupation of all Palestinian
territories is a political and concrete obstacle to the dream of an Islamic
state and it forces the consideration of more realistic options. So we have
started hearing, from Hamas, statements about establishing a Palestinian
state on the June 1967 borders. There is no doubt that this development is
an intellectual and political shift by Hamas. More than 20 years ago,
Hamas founder Sheik Ahmed Yassin proposed a long truce with Israel.
But today, such a proposal is more realistic and is attributed to Hamas’s
current leader Khaled Meshaal. Hamas in 2013 is different than Hamas in
1993. Hamas is now an influential player and its statements and stances
are taken into account by regional and international decision-making
circles.

Recognition and commitment

The shuttle diplomacy by Western officials between Gaza, where Hamas’s
domestic leadership is located, and the Arab capitals of Doha, Cairo and
Amman have only one objective: getting Hamas to agree to the conditions
that would allow it to be embraced by the international community. In
other words, they want Hamas to agree to the two-state solution. And that,
explicitly or implicitly, essentially means that Hamas has recognized
Israel’s right to exist! Those who have been following Hamas’s course
since it was founded 25 years ago notice that every once in awhile there is

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_027112
