something incredible is underway in this easy movement from machine to reality.1°
The New Caste takes these moves, this easy slip from their keyboards and programs
to our lives, for granted. They adjust code and networks and formulas; they watch
the effects on us. They do it again. The idea that such a move is natural, comfortable
even, reveals a new and important temprament. It draws a line betweent the people
writing the code and those who are snapped about in the world they are coding.

Do you know who decided what you see when you search? Do you understand what
the data on your phone reveals about you? Who will snip at and work on your DNA?
Your children? Are you trading stocks against some invisible high-velocity
connected master who will always be one profitable nanosecond ahead of you? In
this sense, network power involves something very much like the intentional
creation of concealment. Your Internet search results, for instance, contain a sharp
tension. Yes, data from all over the planet, from all of history sits rather amazingly in
front of you. But that bit of computer code deciding what you see is engaged ina
kind of digital book burning: It’s making whole sections of knowledge invisible even
as it is unearthing an ever more precise answer for whatever question you have.
What don’t you see? - is a question that hints not only at what is left out of your
search horizon, but generally at the way in which connected systems establish
necessary gates. Part of a Seventh Sense, then, is the ability not merely to look at the
virtual world and know how it becomes insidiously real, but also to feel that all the
connected points of the real world - markets, weapons, social movements - must be
pulled upon by code and links and networks. “Any technology depended upon,” as
The Critical Engineering Manifesto, says is “both a challenge and a threat.”©? Human
experience is, we know, unboxable, uncontainable - our joy, hopes, sense of
freedom, these all defy boxing. Yet here, all around us, are containers that affect our
every choice. Who knows what happens inside all the difficult boxes?

The creeping, essential opacity of power now reveals a twisted puzzle, a really fresh
aspect of this New Caste and the revolution they are making: As much as they are in
the business of making knowledge widely and instantly available, they are also
madly black boxing our world. This breeds a sly, unintended (I think) tension with
Kant’s Enlightenment admonition to “Dare to Know.” Would you like to Dare to know
why your computer is secure? How your genetic information will be studied and
used? How encryption works? Mostly the answer to is: You can’t know. It’s too
complex - and, anyhow, if we told you it would make the whole system less secure.
There is nothing disingenuous here: You likely wouldn’t understand. It is too
complex. You'd be lost at the first turn into strange technical language, where simple
words like “object” or “edge” have specific, essential, different meanings. And telling
you would, in fact, expose you and everyone else to all sorts of risks. It’s as if we’ve
returned to that famous debate of millennia past, the one lingering between Athens
and Jerusalem: Could the world be known and atomized and understood as the
Greeks would have it? Or was mystery, inscrutability and opacity the nature of truth,

168 This seems in a way: See, for instance, Bret Victor in his speech, “Inventing on
Principle” at CUSEC 2012 Turing Complete Conference available online.
169 “ Any technology depended upon”: The Critical Engineering Manifesto, as above.

117

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018349
