blaming the victim (feminism): The faulty assumption that an assault survivor caused or
contributed to the assault.

bottom (BDSM): A blanket term for a masochist and/or submissive. Not everyone who is
a masochist is submissive, and vice versa.

cisgendered (queer studies): A term that means not transgendered. For example,
Clarisse is a cis woman or a cisgendered woman. Here's an excellent essay by the trans
activist Asher Bauer describing why the word cisgendered” is important:

http://carnalnation.com/content/49458/1067/word-day-cis

coming out (queer studies): Openly acknowledging one's sexual identity to oneself, one's
parents, one’s friends, and other parts of one's community.

dominant (BDSM): A person who enjoys being in charge during an S&M encounter.

dungeon (BDSM): Dungeons can often be split into two types: those owned and staffed
by professionals, and those owned by people who are drawn to S&M for non-monetary
reasons. There is occasionally overlap between the two groups, but often there's less
overlap than one might think. Professional BDSM is frequently banned at non-
professional dungeons, and non-professional dungeons are frequently non-profit
organizations. Indeed, many non-professional dungeons could be described as
community centers for BDSMers. They're basically centralized nodes for BDSM
support, and they may host lectures, workshops, discussion groups, public parties, or
other meetups.

enthusiastic consent (feminism): A standard for ethical sex whereby one is expected not
Just to have a consenting partner, but an enthusiastic and excited partner.

gender policing (feminism): Gender roles are defined by culture, and when a person
steps outside their gender role, that person will often be policed or attacked by other
members of the culture. For example, a USA man with long hair risks being mocked or
beaten up.

hard limit (BDSM): A strong, negative BDSM preference that is discussed ahead of
time. For example, a person who absolutely does not want to have anal sex would
describe anal sex as a hard limit. See also: soft limit.

heteronormative (queer studies): A term used to describe the cultural expectations of
normal heterosexual relationships. For example, the expectation that men are the ones
to pursue women during romantic interactions is heteronormative.

kink (BDSM): A specific preference. For example, if Clarisse enjoys being whipped,
then she has a kink for it. She could also say something like, I kink on being whipped.”

kinky (BDSM and others): A lot of BDSMers use kinky to mean into BDSM.”
However, there are some people who use the term more broadly and include practices
that aren't usually considered BDSM, such as polyamory or swing.

landmine (BDSM): An extremely sensitive psychological spot, sometimes hit
accidentally during BDSM play. This is discussed further within this book, in What
Happens After An S&M Encounter 'Gone Wrong” (part 3).

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018700
