Confidential Disclaimer

This Confidential Memorandum has been prepared by Stan Johnson Company (SJC) and is being furnished to you
solely for the purpose of your review of the commercial property located at 19-F Smith Bay Rd, St Thomas 00802, US
Virgin Islands (the “Property”). The material contained in this Offering Memorandum shall be used for the purposes
of evaluating the Property for acquisition and shall not be used for any purpose or made available to any other

person without the express written consent of Stan Johnson Company (Broker).

By accepting the Confidential Men
herein and any other information

emorandum in whole or in par

may have received from SJC; and
foregoing agreements will require

This Confidential Memorandum h

norandum, you acknowledge and agree that: (1) all of the information contained
you will be receiving in connection with this transaction, whether oral, written
or in any other form (collectively, the “Materials”), is confidential; (2) you will not reproduce the Confidential
t; (3) if you do not wish to pursue this matter, you will return this Confidential
emorandum to SJC as soon as practicable together with all other materials relating to the Property which you
4) any proposed actions by you which are inconsistent in any manner with the
the prior written consent of SIC.

as been prepared by SJC, based upon certain information pertaining to the
Property and any information obtained from SJC to assist interested parties in making their own evaluation of the
Property is offered on a no representation or warranty provision other than customary warranties of title and is sold
on an “as-is, where-is” basis and with all faults. The material and transaction does not purport to be all inclusive.
This Confidential Memorandum contains descriptive materials, financial information and other data compiled for
the convenience of parties interested in the Property. The Materials are being delivered by SJC to prospective

aterials.
informatio

ei

n contained herein or in any of the Ma

investors with the understanding that it is not a
investigation
without relian

by prospective investors of those n
ce upon SJC, the Broker or any of

ther SJC, the Broker, nor any of th

their respective a

natters which they deem appropri
filiates or any of

eir respective affi

ate

arranties as to

| inclusive and that it is qualified in its entirety by independent
in evaluating this offering
the informatio
iates have independently veri
terials, and no representations or w

n set out in the
fied any of the
the accuracy or

SJC, for itself an

d its affiliates of the Property, expressly disclaim any and all

completeness thereof or of any other kind whatsoever are made or intended and none should be inferred.

iability for staternents or

representations, express or implied, contained herein or for omissions from the

oral or other format of communication transmitted to a prospective investor in th
proposed transaction. All summaries and d
herein are qualified in their entirety by reference

request may be made available. The

This Confidential Memorandum does not consti

solicitation of interest with respect
constitute an offer of security. The i
without prior notice. By accepting t
from any kind of claim, expense, or
the right to request the return of
negotiate with one or more prospec

Page 2

his Confidential Memo
iability arising out of y
the Materials at any t
tive investors at any tim

iscussions of documentation and/or
to the actual documents and/or financial statements, which upon
terms and conditions described herein are subj

tute an offer to accept any inves
to the investment described herein. The Confidential Memorandum does not
nvestment described herein may be financed or withdrawn from the market,
randum you agree to release SJC and hold it harmless
our discovery or purchase of the Property. SJC reserves
ime. Ownership of the Property reserves the right to
e,

ateria

GSA Investment & Acquisition Opportunity | St Thomas, USVI

s or for any other written,
e course of its evaluation of the
financial information contained

ect to change without notice.

tment proposal but is merely a

ee) Stan Johnson Company | THE NET LEASE AUTHORITY®

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018728
