BW: I take it very seriously. I’ve done books on eight presidents, going back from Nixon to
Obama.

Trump: Right.
BW: And I learned something about reporting, frankly, Mr. President.
Trump: Good.

BW: I’ve got to go talk to people and see them outside of the White House and outside of
their offices, and gained a lot of insight and documentation. And it’s — you know, it’s a
tough look at the world and your administration and you.

Trump: Right. Well, I assume that means it’s going to be a negative book. But you know,
I’m some — I’m sort of 50 percent used to that. [Laughter] That’s all right. Some are good
and some are bad. Sounds like this is going to be a bad one.

BW: It was a chance missed, and I don’t know how things work over there in terms of . ..
Trump: Very well. We ...
BW: ... getting to you.

Trump: Well, if you would call Madeleine [Westerhout] in my office ... Did you speak to
Madeleine?

BW: No, I didn’t. But I...
Trump: Madeleine is the key. She’s the secret. Because she’s the person . ..
BW: Well, I talked to Raj [Shah] about it. I talked to ... I talked to Kellyanne.

Trump: Well, a lot of them are afraid to come and talk, or — you know, they are busy. I’m
busy. But I don’t mind talking to you. I would’ve spoken to you. I spoke to you 20 years
[ago] and I spoke to you a year and a half or two years ago.

[Listen to Woodward and Trump's call on The Post's Can He Do That? podcast]
BW: A couple of years ago, I understand.

Trump: And I certainly don’t mind talking to you, and I wish I could’ve spoken to you. But
nobody called my office. I mean, you went through, I guess, different people. ...

BW: Well, Mr. President, how can I spend all this time talking to people and — like
Kellyanne and Raj and Republican senators?

Trump: Who were the senators? No, they never called me about it.

BW: Senator [Lindsey] Graham said he had talked to you about talking to me. Now, is that
not true?

Trump: Senator Graham actually mentioned it quickly in one meeting.
BW: Yes. Well, see. And then nothing happened.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_033318
