Exhibit 43: Japan Consumer Prices
Core inflation and inflation expectations remain low.

% YoY
3.0 5

Core Inflation*

“---- Expectations of Average Inflation Over Following 10 Years**
BOJ Inflation Target

10 -
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016

Data through November 2016.

Source: Investment Strategy Group, Datastream, QUICK Bond Investors Survey.
* Core inflation excludes fresh food and VAT impact.

** Based on the QUICK Bond Investors Survey.

United Kingdom: A Fork in the Road

Much like the Eurozone, the UK economy is
notable for its resilience, evident in 15 consecutive
quarters of positive quarterly growth averaging
2.5% annualized. This streak is even more
impressive considering last year’s Brexit vote and
the resulting consensus view that the UK was
destined for recession. Although the 20% decline
in the trade-weighted sterling and rapid easing
by the Bank of England were no doubt pivotal in
avoiding that fate, the immediate impact of the
Brexit referendum has been far less destructive
than feared.

But as we begin 2017, the UK is rapidly
approaching a fork in the road. The government
must choose which path Brexit will take once it
triggers Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty, which
formally sets the process of the UK exit in motion.
Here, the government’s current objectives—limiting
freedom of movement into the UK while retaining
full access to the European Union’s single market—

UK authorities will have little room
to cushion a downturn given today’s
large fiscal deficits and already highly

accommodative central bank.

seem mutually exclusive and likely to engender a
politically charged negotiation process. This road
is made all the more dangerous by the fact that
UK authorities will have little room to cushion a
downturn given today’s large fiscal deficits and
already highly accommodative central bank.

Of course, a softer stance on the issues is also a
possible path, one that could elongate the effective
transitional period beyond two years and lead toa
far more benign outcome for the UK.

The uncertainty around the government’s
ultimate choices significantly increases the range of
GDP outcomes in the medium term. Our current
base case assumes GDP will expand by 0.5-1.5%
in 2017. This notable slowdown from last year’s
2% pace reflects the likelihood that both hiring
and investment activity will become more cautious
once the Brexit negotiations start. Even worse, this
slowdown arrives just as consumer price inflation
is accelerating from past sterling depreciation,
creating a lower growth/higher inflation backdrop
that is set to erode real income growth. For these
reasons, the risks to our central case are skewed to
the downside.

That said, the fate of the UK economy is not
preordained, even after the government chooses
its path. As with any other negotiation, the result
will ultimately reflect the reasonableness of the
parties, the concessions of both parties and how
the discussions evolve over time. Or in the words
of golf legend Arnold Palmer: “The road to success
is always under construction.”

Japan: Same Battle, Different Year

For Japan, the decades-long battle against deflation
never seems to end. Despite two years of above-
trend GDP growth, including last year’s 1% gain,
core inflation remains negative, having fallen 0.4%
in 2016 (see Exhibit 43). This comes despite a tight
labor market and record profits that should have
encouraged companies to increase base
wages. These already muted inflationary
pressures were exacerbated by low
energy prices and the appreciation of
the yen, once again pushing the Bank
of Japan’s (BOJ’s) 2% inflation target
further into the future.

But far from waving the white flag,
Japan’s policymakers responded with

a range of bold measures, including a

44 | Goldman Sachs | JANUARY 2017

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014577
