ACKRELL
CAPITAL CHAPTER Ill Cannabis Industry Segmentation
Compared to indoor cultivation facilities that use electrical lighting, greenhouse and outdoor facili-
ties are generally less expensive to operate and more appropriate for large-scale projects, but provide less
control over growing conditions. The use of natural sunlight provides substantial savings on lighting
equipment and energy costs, but may limit the number of grow cycles per year. Outdoor and green-
house environments are more exposed to environmental risks that may negatively affect crops, such as
pests, contaminants and adverse weather. Outdoor and greenhouse cultivation facilities are prevalent in

Oregon, California and certain Latin American countries, which have climates conducive to outdoor

growing.

Tae

Outdoor Greenhouses

The Business of Cannabis Cultivation

Cultivation businesses must navigate a host of operational challenges, including state and local licensing
requirements, facility design and construction, research and acquisition of cannabis strains, intellectual
property protection, cultivation process engineering, supply-chain management, yield optimization,
facility management and security. Many cultivation businesses retain outside consultants to advise
on one or more of these issues, although some businesses manage their entire cultivation operations
internally. A cultivator may wholesale cannabis flower and other plant material to cannabis concentrate
manufacturers or retail dispensaries, or it may be part of a vertically integrated production and retail
business that sells its flower and other internally manufactured products through its own dispensaries.

Certain U.S. laws, foreign laws and international treaties currently restrict interstate and some
international movement of cannabis products. A cultivation business that wishes to scale its operations
into a new jurisdiction often must invest significant capital in a new cultivation facility located within
the new jurisdiction. As laws change to allow more interstate and international transportation of can-
nabis products, cultivators who are operating redundant facilities or expensive indoor facilities will face
increased margin pressure. As the cannabis industry matures and becomes more commoditized, we
expect the most successful cultivators will be those with strong consumer brands or scalable low-cost
operations in regions where the climate is conducive to agricultural production.

© 2017 Ackrell Capital, LLC | Member FINRA/SIPC 35

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024671
