Among Bannon’s many regular targets, Powell had become a favorite. She was often
billed as Deputy National Security Advisor; that was her sometime designation even in the
New York Times. Actually, she was Deputy National Security Advisor for Strategy—the
difference, Bannon pointed out, between the COO of a hotel chain and the concierge.

Coming back from the overseas trip, Powell began to talk in earnest to friends about
her timetable to get out of the White House and back into a private-sector job. Sheryl
Sandberg, she said, was her model.

“Oh my fucking god,” said Bannon.

On May 26, the day before the presidential party returned from the overseas trip, the
Washington Post reported that during the transition, Kushner and Sergey Kislyak, the
Russian ambassador, had, at Kushner’s instigation, discussed the possibility of having the
Russians set up a private communications channel between the transition team and the
Kremlin. The Post cited “U.S. officials briefed on intelligence reports.” The Jarvanka side
believed that Bannon was the source.

Part of the by now deep enmity between the First Family couple and their allies and
Bannon and his team was the Jarvanka conviction that Bannon had played a part in many
of the reports of Kushner’s interactions with the Russians. This was not, in other words,
merely an internal policy war; it was a death match. For Bannon to live, Kushner would
have to be wholly discredited—pilloried, investigated, possibly even jailed.

Bannon, assured by everyone that there was no winning against the Trump family,
hardly tried to hide his satisfied belief that he was going to outplay them. In the Oval
Office, in front of her father, Bannon openly attacked her. “You,” he said, pointing at her
as the president watched, “are a fucking liar.” Ivanka’s bitter complaints to her father,
which in the past had diminished Bannon, were now met by a hands-off Trump: “TI told
you this is a tough town, baby.”

OOK Ok

But if Bannon was back, it was far from clear what being back meant. Trump being
Trump, was this true rehabilitation, or did he feel an even deeper rancor toward Bannon
for having survived his initial intention to kill him? Nobody really thought Trump forgot
—instead, he dwelled and ruminated and chewed. “One of the worst things is when he
believes you’ve succeeded at his expense,” explained Sam Nunberg, once on the inside of
the Trump circle, then cast to the outside. “If your win is in any way perceived as his loss,
phew.”

For his part, Bannon believed he was back because, at a pivotal moment, his advice
had proved vastly better than that of the “geniuses.” Firing Comey, the solve-all-problems
Jarvanka solution, had indeed unleashed a set of terrible consequences.

The Jarvanka side believed that Bannon was in essence blackmailing the president. As

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020062
