individuals who violate group norms;
and doing all this across time frames that
stretch from the distant past to multiple
possible futures (9). Consistent with
this hypothesis, measures of sociality in
troops of baboons have been found to be
highly correlated with infant survival,
and cross-species comparisons have
shown that the evolution of large and
metabolically expensive brains is more
closely associated with social than
ecological complexity (9).

Our survival depends on our
connection with others. Born to the
most prolonged period of utter
dependency of any animal, human
infants must instantly engage their
parents in protective behavior, and the
parents must care enough about their
offspring to nurture and protect them. If
infants do not elicit nurturance and
protection from caregivers, or if
caregivers are not motivated to provide
such care over an extended period of
time, then the infants will perish along
with the genetic legacy of the parents
(J0). Our developmental dependency
mirrors our evolutionary heritage.
Hunter/gatherers did not have the benefit
of natural weaponry, armor, strength,
flight, stealth, or speed relative to many
other species. Human survival depended
on collective abilities, not on individual
might.

Selfish Genes, Social Brains

It is the gene that is obligatorily
selfish, not the human brain. Genes that
promote behaviors that increase the odds
of the genes surviving are perpetuated.
One implication of this simple insight is
that evolution can be viewed as the
competition between genes using
individuals and social structures as their
temporary vehicles. The genetic
constitution of Homo Sapiens in the long

Page |22

run derives not solely from the
reproductive success of individuals, but
also from the success of their children to
reproduce. Hunter/gatherers who did not
form social connections and who did not
feel a compulsion to return to share their
food or defense with their offspring may
have been more likely to survive to
procreate again, but given the long
period of dependency of human infants
their offspring may have been less likely
to survive to procreate. The result is
selection that strongly favors the ability
to process information that could
contribute to the formation and
maintenance of social capacities and
connections — that is, a social brain.
These social capacities evolved hand in
hand with genetic, neural, and hormonal
mechanisms to support them because the
resulting social behaviors helped humans
survive, reproduce, and care for
offspring sufficiently long that they too
survived to reproduce (//-1/3). Relative
to other animals, the striking
development of and increased
connectivity within the human cerebral
cortex, especially the frontal and
temporal regions, are among the key
evolutionary developments in this
regard. The cerebral cortex is a mantle
of between 2.6 to 16 billion neurons with
each neuron receiving 10,000 to 100,000
synapses in their dendritic trees (e.g.,
14). The expansion of the frontal
regions in the human brain contributes to
the human capacities for reasoning,
planning, performing mental
simulations, theory of mind, and
thinking about self and others. The
temporal regions of the brain, in turn, are
involved with aspects of social
perception, memory, and
communication. The means for guiding
behavior through the environment
emerged prior to neocortical expansion.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021268
