State Budgets and Healthcare costs — Full text articles

How to Charge $546 for Six Liters of Saltwater
Nina Bernstein — New York Times

It is one of the most common components of emergency medicine: an intravenous bag of sterile saltwater.

Luckily for anyone who has ever needed an IV bag to replenish lost fluids or to receive medication, itis also one of the least
expensive. The average manufacturer’s price, according to government data, has fluctuated in recent years from 44 cents to

$1.

Yet there is nothing either cheap or simple about its ultimate cost, as | learned when | tried to trace the commercial path of IV
bags from the factory to the veins of more than 100 patients struck by a May 2012 outbreak of food poisoning in upstate New
York.

Some of the patients’ bills would later include markups of 100 to 200 times the manufacturer’s price, not counting separate
charges for “IV administration.” And on other bills, a bundled charge for “IV therapy” was almost 1,000 times the official cost
of the solution.

It is no secret that medical care in the United States is overpriced. But as the tale of the humble IV bag shows all too clearly, it
is secrecy that helps keep prices high: hidden in the underbrush of transactions among multiple buyers and sellers, and in
the hieroglyphics of hospital bills.

At every step from manufacturer to patient, there are confidential deals among the major players, including drug companies,
purchasing organizations and distributors, and insurers. These deals so obscure prices and profits that even participants
cannot say what the simplest component of care actually costs, let alone what it should cost.

And that leaves taxpayers and patients alike with an inflated bottom line and little or no way to challenge it.
APRICE IN FLUX

In the food-poisoning case, some of the stricken were affluent, and others barely made ends meet. Some had private
insurance; some were covered by government programs like Medicare and Medicaid; and some were uninsured.

In the end, those factors strongly (and sometimes perversely) affected overall charges for treatment, including how much
patients were expected to pay out of pocket. Butat the beginning, there was the cost of an IV bag of normal saline, one of
more than a billion units used in the United States each year.

“People are shocked when they hear that a bag of saline solution costs far less than their cup of coffee in the morning,” said
Deborah Spak, a spokeswoman for Baxter International, one of three global pharmaceutical companies that make nearly all
the IV solutions used in the United States.

It was a rare unguarded comment. Ms. Spak — like a spokesman for Hospira, another giant in the field — later insisted that
all information about saline solution prices was private.

In fact, manufacturers are required to report such prices annually to the federal government, which bases Medicare
payments on the average national price plus 6 percent. The limit for one liter of normal saline (a little more than a quart) went
to $1.07 this year from 46 cents in 2010, an increase manufacturers linked to the cost of raw materials, fuel and
transportation. That would seem to make it the rare medical item that is cheaper in the United States than in France, where
the price at a typical hospital in Paris last year was 3.62 euros, or $4.73. One-liter IV bags normally contain nine grams of
salt, less than two teaspoons. Much of it comes from a major Morton Salt operation in Rittman, Ohio, which uses a
subterranean salt deposit formed millions of years ago. The water is local to places like Round Lake, Ill., or Rocky Mount,
N.C., where Baxter and Hospira, respectively, run their biggest automated production plants under sterility standards set by
the Food and Drug Administration.

But even before the finished product is sold by the case or the truckload, the real cost of a bag of normal saline, like the true

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019423
