employees who do not have roles to play during this situation. I am not sure why people are expecting a peak in
the coming months. The whole process is a restructuring course that was well received by all Dubai Holding
employees.

Al Hayat Newspaper - Shafiq Al Asadi

Your Highness, Dubai was accused in the media that laid-off Arabs descend from a
specific nationality, what is the reality?

Rumors feed on human emotion. Verifiable facts, and even simple common sense, have little or nothing to do
with the way a rumor spreads. I would say that due to the steep global crisis effect on domains such as PR and
advertising, which employ by coincidence a large number from a particular nationality, or the construction
sector which also employs a large number of architects from one nationality, there is absolutely no focus on
laying off any Arab or non-Arab nationality.

Al Hayat Newspaper - Shafiq Al Asadi

Your Highness, your recent visit to Russia complements your strategy in visiting the
strong economic countries worldwide such as Germany and China last year. Do you
think that these visits are still useful nowadays? Are you planning to20continue this
approach and what is the objective of those visits? What was the outcome of your last
visit to Moscow?

This is a strange question. We are pretty sure that this crisis will not last forever, and that it will end. The UAE
has always had good relations with all countries around the world and especially the weighty economic
countries. Our duty is to work toward developing and enhancing those relationships. In fact, during global
crisis countries should broaden those visits and enhance their bilateral relations especially since this crisis may
result in forming a new economic and political world construct.

Al Hayat Newspaper - Shafiq Al Asadi

Your Highness, do you think that the current crisis would impose new changes on the
federal and local levels in the UAE as rumors are spreading regarding a change in
progress in the cabinet?

It is obvious that things do change. Whoever does not take up the new situation and cooperate positively with it
for the benefit of the nation and nationals would be incompetent. However, it is you who’s saying that there are
rumors that a change in the cabinet is under way.

Al Hayat Newspaper - Shafiq Al Asadi

Your Highness, people who are aware of the relationship between Dubai and Abu Dhabi
say that there is no need to worry about the effect of the crisis on Dubai because it relies at
the end of the day on the financial strength of Abu Dhabi, which owns the biggest
sovereign fund in the world. What would you say?

Those people know well that they can’t bracket the relationship between both Emirates into just a financial
relation. The money element is a very minimal component in a superior relationship built on family ties with a
unity soul, with “tolerance” essence and foundation concurred by both Sheikh Zayed and Sheikh Rashid on 18

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024936
