DURING THE RULE OF WESTERN-ORIENTED autocrat Mohammad Reza Shah
Pahlavi, Tehran was a rapidly evolving society that deceptively appeared to be crossing
into the modern age. My own family history is perhaps representative of Iran's urban
middle-class trajectory during the 20th century: My devout paternal grandmother, born in
1907, wore a chador and wasn't formally educated beyond elementary school; three of her
four daughters attended university, and all eschewed the veil. All of their daughters grew
up in a Tehran in which miniskirts were the trend, and Googoosh -- Iran's pre-
revolutionary J. Lo (but remarkably modest by today's standards) -- was their main

source of emulation.

Khomeini's opposition to the shah was fueled in part by the latter's enfranchisement of
women, which the ayatollah deliberately conflated with sexual decadence. In his 1970
book Islamic Governance(Hukumat-e Islami) -- which would later provide the ideological
and political template for post-revolutionary Iran -- Khomeini hyperventilated that
sexual vice has now reached such proportions that it is destroying entire generations,
corrupting our youth, and causing them to neglect all forms of work! They are all rushing
to enjoy the various forms of vice that have become so freely available and so

enthusiastically promoted.

Khomeini nonetheless reassured his liberal revolutionary compatriots -- just months
before the revolution, while in Paris exile -- that women [would be] free in the Islamic
Republic in the selection of their activities and their future and their clothing. Much to its
retrospective dismay, a sizable chunk of Iran's liberal intelligentsia -- both male and
female -- lined up behind Khomeini, some even referring to him as an Iranian Gandhi.
Shortly after consolidating power, however, Khomeini and his disciples swiftly moved to
crush opposing views and curtail female social and sartorial freedoms. Islam doesn't
allow for people to [wear swimsuits] in the sea, he proclaimed shortly after becoming

supreme leader. We will skin their hide!

Women who resisted the mandatory veil were met with violence and intimidation,
including lyrical taunts of Ya roosari, ya toosari! (‘Cover your head or be smacked in
the head!). As Iranian Nobel Peace Prize laureate Shirin Ebadi recently wrote,

Although the 1979 revolution in Iran is often called an Islamic revolution, it can actually

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026556
