[22

The witting-accomplice scenario better fits with the principle in logic called Occam’s razor that
suggests that in choosing between alternative explanations, the one that requires the fewest
assumptions should be given priority. It would be a relatively easy to gain access to passwords if
Snowden had the cooperation of an insider at the center that had been read into the compartments
or, even better, if he had the cooperation with a system administrator with the necessary PKI
cards and shell keys to bypass the password protection. Such an accomplice could also help
explain how Snowden was able to get the job at the Center in the first place; how he knew in
advance that he could find there the “lists” of the NSA sources in foreign countries, and how he
knew that there were no security traps at the center. Such a witting accomplice might even have
prepared in advance the “spiders” that Snowden used to index the files.

The witting-accomplice scenario of course requires a somewhat unsettling expansion of the
plot. It means Snowden collaborated with one or more insiders at the Center to steal secret
documents. It is not difficult to imagine, in light of the lax background checks at outside
contractors servicing the NSA, that there were others in the “geek squad” that shared Snowden’s
antipathy to NSA surveillance. Certainly, we know that Snowden found other NSA workers
who were willing to attend his anti-surveillance Crypto party in December 2012. Anyone of these
other potential dissidents could have shared Snowden’s objective of exposing NSA abuses. It
would only be a small next step to offer Snowden help if he was willing to go public. Indeed, if
the geek culture produced one Snowden, why wouldn’t it produce others? If such an accomplice
lacked Snowden’s willingness to flee to another country, he may have limited his participation to
supplying technical assistance. For his part, Snowden may have agreed to divert suspicion from
his accomplice by taking sole responsibility for the crime when he went public.

The problem with this scenario, however, is that no witting accomplices were ever found. The
FBI, which was in charge of the domestic part of investigation of the Snowden case, questioned
all of Snowden’s co-workers at the Center over the course of six months but it failed to find
anyone who knowingly helped Snowden. If the accomplice was an idealistic amateur, it is likely
the FBI would have found him. Three co-workers did admit to the FBI that they might have
inadvertently given Snowden their passwords but these three slips would not account for
Snowden’s breach of all the other compartments. Of course, there may have also been less
forthcoming co-workers hid their slips in divulging their passwords to Snowden.

This raises the more sinister possibility that the accomplice was not an amateur co-worker but a
deep-cover spy who was already in place when Snowden arrived on the scene. Such a
penetration agent could have been recruited by an adversary intelligence service before Snowden
came on the scene. After Snowden expressed a desire to expose the NSA’s domestic
surveillance, it could then have used Snowden as an “umbrella” to hide its own activities. Finding
such a means to protect a source while exploiting his or her information is not uncommon in
espionage operations, and since Snowden was willing to flee America and go public, he could
serve as a near perfect umbrella. “Snowden may have carried out of the NSA many more

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020274
