The “War on Terror” After Snowden | 295

secretly briefed on in 2009. Dianne Feinstein, the chair of the Sen-
ate Select Committee, pointed out with privileged knowledge that it
saved “subway cars stuffed to the gunwales with people”; Represen-
tative Mike Rogers also spoke with privileged knowledge when he
said on June 9, 2013, referring to the 702 program, “I can tell you in
the Zazi case in New York, it’s exactly the program that was used.”
The third NSA program of interest to terrorists that Snowden
revealed was called XKeyscore. Using Internet data from PRISM, the
NSA had created the equivalent of digital fingerprints for suspected
foreign terrorists on watch lists. The “fingerprint” for each suspect
was based on his or her search pattern on the Internet. These algo-
rithms made it difficult for suspects to hide on the Internet by using
aliases. Once a suspect was “fingerprinted,” any attempt to evade
surveillance by using a different computer and another user name
would be detected by the XKeyscore algorithms. The “fingerprints”
only worked so long as XKeyscore remained secret from those on
the watch list. After Snowden exposed it, suspects could evade sur-
veillance by changing their search patterns when they changed their
© aliases, ®
Further enabling furtive Internet users to evade the surveillance
of the government, Snowden offered specific tips about the secret
sources and methods used by both the NSA and the British GCHQ.
He revealed in a public interview, for example, that the GCHQ
had deployed the first “full-take” Internet interceptor that “snarfs
everything, in a rolling buffer to allow retroactive investigation
without missing a single bit.” When asked how to circumvent it,
he replied, “You should never route through or peer with the UK
under any circumstances. Their fibers are radioactive, and even the
Queen’s selfies to the pool boy get logged.” Aside from this warning
about using Internet providers whose wiring passes through Britain,
he also warned Internet users about trusting the encryption of any
U.S.-based Internet company because of their secret relationships
with the NSA. He added that the NSA considered “telecom collabo-
rators to be the jewels in their crown of omniscience.” He also gave a
warning about the attention the NSA was paying to “jihadi forums.”
He said that to avoid being automatically “targeted” by the NSA,
one needed to avoid them.

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.indd 295 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019783
