as MSNBC’s “Morning Joe,” NBC's “Meet the Press,” and “Charlie Rose.” He has
argued that Obamacare was basically an expansion of insurance coverage and did not

emphasize patient health enough.

In an interview with The Washington Post in November, he said his office had already

been in touch with Trump's transition team offering help.

“We're really talking about replace and repair, rather than repeal. But we haven’t seen
a full approach yet from the administration. Personally, this is me speaking. ... We’re

basically optimistic we can create a better system together,” Noseworthy said.

In a statement issued by his office shortly after the meeting began, Noseworthy said
the invitation from Trump was to share his perspective on the future of healthcare

delivery, research and excellence” and that he was pleased for the opportunity.”

Rothman is chief executive of Johns Hopkins Medicine and several years ago found
himself in the awkward position of criticizing physician Ben Carson, who at the time
was head of pediatric neurology for the institution, after he made disparaging remarks
about same-sex marriage. Carson later apologized publicly for his “poorly chosen
words.” Carson, a onetime political rival of Trump's, has been tapped to lead

the Department of Housing and Urban Development.

Torchiana is chief executive of Partners HealthCare, based in Massachusetts — a state
that has long been at the forefront of health-care reform. Partners operates two of the
most well-regarded hospitals in the world, Massachusetts General and Brigham and
Women's Hospital, which are affiliated with Harvard Medical School. But in recent
months, Partners has been under fire from some policymakers because of what they
describe as a large gap between what Partners charges and what other providers

charge.

Cosgrove, a heart surgeon and Vietnam veteran who is chief executive of the Cleveland
Clinic, may be a candidate for the head of the Department of Veterans Affairs,
according to Bloomberg News. Cosgrove has met with Trump several other times. He's
on an advisory panel of 16 executives for the president-elect on jobs and the economy,
has been spotted in Trump Tower recently and was in Palm Beach meeting with

Trump last week.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019215
