21

Mexican national oil company. ?! And in the early 1980s,
DOJ and SEC brought cases involving a $1 million bribe to
the chairman of Trinidad and Tobago’s racing authority.'”

DOJ and SEC continue to regularly bring FCPA
cases involving bribes paid to employees of agencies and
instrumentalities of foreign governments. In one such
case, the subsidiary of a Swiss engineering company paid
bribes to officials of a state-owned and controlled electric-
ity commission. The commission was created by, owned
by, and controlled by the Mexican government, and it had
a monopoly on the transmission and distribution of elec-
tricity in Mexico. Many of the commission’s board mem-
bers were cabinet-level government officials, and the direc-
tor was appointed by Mexico's president.’ Similarly, in
another recent case, Miami telecommunications executives
were charged with paying bribes to employees of Haiti’s
state-owned and controlled telecommunications company.
The telecommunications company was 97% owned and
100% controlled by the Haitian government, and its direc-
tor was appointed by Haiti’s president.

While no one factor is dispositive or necessarily more
important than another, as a practical matter, an entity is
unlikely to qualify as an instrumentality if a government
does not own or control a majority of its shares. However,
there are circumstances in which an entity would qualify
as an instrumentality absent 50% or greater foreign gov-
ernment ownership, which is reflected in the limited num-
ber of DOJ or SEC enforcement actions brought in such
situations. For example, in addition to being convicted of
funneling millions of dollars in bribes to two sitting presi-
dents in two different countries, a French issuer’s three
subsidiaries were convicted of paying bribes to employees
of a Malaysian telecommunications company that was 43%
owned by Malaysia’s Ministry of Finance. There, notwith-
standing its minority ownership stake in the company, the
Ministry held the status of a “special shareholder; had veto
power over all major expenditures, and controlled impor-
tant operational decisions.!” In addition, most senior
company officers were political appointees, including the

Chairman and Director, the Chairman of the Board of the

Tender Committee, and the Executive Director.'** Thus,

despite the Malaysian government having a minority share-
holder position, the company was an instrumentality of the
Malaysian government as the government nevertheless had
substantial control over the company.

Companies and individuals should also remember
that, whether an entity is an instrumentality of a foreign
government or a private entity, commercial (ie. private-
to-private) bribery may still violate the FCPA’s accounting
provisions, the Travel Act, anti-money laundering laws, and
other federal or foreign laws. Any type of corrupt payment

thus carries a risk of prosecution.

Public International Organizations

In 1998, the FCPA was amended to expand the defini-
tion of “foreign official” to include employees and representa-
tives of public international organizations.'”’ A “public inter-
national organization” is any organization designated as such
by Executive Order under the International Organizations
Immunities Act, 22 U.S.C. § 288, or any other organization
that the President so designates.’ Currently, public interna-
tional organizations include entities such as the World Bank,
the International Monetary Fund, the World Intellectual
Property Organization, the World Trade Organization, the
OECD, the Organization of American States, and numer-
ous others. A comprehensive list of organizations designated
as “public international organizations” is contained in 22
US.C. § 288 and can also be found on the U.S. Government
Printing Office website at http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/.

How Are Payments to Third Parties
Treated?

The FCPA expressly prohibits corrupt payments
made through third parties or intermediaries.'” Specifically,
it covers payments made to “any person, while knowing
that all or a portion of such money or thing of value will
be offered, given, or promised, directly or indirectly,” toa
foreign official. Many companies doing business in a foreign
country retain a local individual or company to help them
conduct business. Although these foreign agents may pro-
vide entirely legitimate advice regarding local customs and

procedures and may help facilitate business transactions,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022523

