most dogged and hyperbolic antagonists—“one of America’s most
notorious sex offenders.”

And yet the mighty and powerful, apparently evaluating the nature of
disgrace on their own terms, beat a path to his door. It’s a fantastic conclave
of influence in his dining room: financiers, billionaires, heads of state,
economic ministers.

He surely represents the kind of insiderism that is mostly just a
figment in outsiders’ fantasies. Except for the fact that, straining credulity,
Epstein is real. His is an ultimate sort of fantasy of power, wealth, and
secrecy. (In 2004, when the then owners of this magazine put it up for sale, I
was involved with a group trying to buy it—an effort in which Epstein
volunteered to invest $20 million. New York was subsequently sold to
another wealthy investor.) Were the International Jewish conspiracy to
actually exist, it might be here in his dining room (while not everybody in
his circle is Jewish, an obvious “think Yiddish” point of view prevails).

Without ever being asked to keep what I have heard here off the
record, I’ve willingly done so, least I not be invited back. And, too, to
protect him. Who would understand Jeffrey? Who could explain him?

Certainly Epstein’s past encounters with the press (and in many ways
with the entire outside world) have been about as disastrous as any could be,
helping to open a Pandora’s box of lifestyle vulnerabilities that sent him to
prison on a prostitution charge in 2008.

And yet here he 1s, in his 50,000 square foot mansion, dispensing
advice to world leaders and business titans.

Indeed, Epstein has been advising Bill Gates on a new way to increase
the already vast clout of the Gates Foundation by adding funds from other
wealthy individuals that can use the Gates resources (the Gates Foundation
now employs 1,200 people), but which can be directed to separate causes
and goals. And it is Gates who at the end of the summer began prodding
Epstein to begin a process of public rehabilitation.

Hence, as part of an effort to get “out in front” of the unfavorable
notice that might greet Gates’ public association with him, Epstein agreed to
several on the record conversation with me, in the hope, on his part, that,
after five years since his release from prison, he might be able to leaven his
reputation. And with the hope on my part of learning more about how and if
the rich are different than you and me (although we can fairly dispense with
the if).

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022709
