—=—. Selection and the Award Ceremony

NOBEL CHARITABLE TRUST

Announcement of Awards & Ceremony

Public Presentations

*NCT Energy Award* Kyoto Energy Award xNobel Family Honorary Award Ingenuity, practicality, lessening effects on the
The 8 finalists will conduct public presentations of their products. environment and design. All these factors will be

Oiilneienereeeatciion comprehensively examined in determining the awards.
Each corporation will have 15 minutes to make a presentation in front of the

As the audience watch, an impressive award ceremony will be

judge.
The presentation will place the spotlight on environmental products and produced. Each award will be presented in a prestigious
services representing the year. manner, well suited for this honor.

Date and Time: Last Day (15:00-15:45)
Place: Special stage build in the Atrium
Participants: Judges, press and others
involved

eVisitors: Free

eDate & Time: Final Day (10:30-12:30)
@Place: International Conference Room
Participants : Judges, press and others
involved

eVisitors: free (first 500 visitors)

. oo. . . a
The 8 finalists will be announced at 16:00 on the 2 day. Award Ceremony Program (draft)
™No defined style of presentation. A screen will be used.
“After all 8 finalists complete their presentations, the judges will @Opening Speech {
hold a final selection meeting. @Announcement of Awards, Award Presentation and Speech
#Announcement of winners and the Award Ceremony will take from Winners
lace at the special stage from 15:00 ENVIRONMENT & ECOLOGY DIVISION : ws
pl . p g . . . *Special Ecology Award *NCT Contribution to the Environment Presenter: Michael Nobel
2 Presentations are held to better explain the features of the product to the Judges Award*NCT Environmental Design Award
and visitors and will be a factor in determining the awards. ENERGY DIVISION:
a 5 . *Kyoto Energy Award *Nobel Family Award *NCT Ener = ‘
Awards Selected by Visitors and the Judging Committee Aword ad Y ad 5 if A
. , ‘ F : Photo Session
*&NCT Contribution to the Environment Award *NCT Environmental Design Award IOVETAl COnTHIERIS BY IRE ‘Chalet the Judaine Cannes
* Special Ecology Award Robel Wedel
The Judging Committee will select the winners from the finalists selected by votes Photo Session of Winners _®Closing Remarks (image)

of the visitors

Selections will be made on the basis of the votes casted by visitors during public days
«The Awards above will be awarded to the top 3 products with the most votes

Stage decorations will be prestigious and dignified within the premises of eco-friendly materials.

11
HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031370
