And yet with a salesman’s tenacity, the Mooch pressed on. He appointed himself a
Trump ambassador without portfolio. He declared himself Trump’s man on Wall Street,
even if, practically speaking, he wasn’t a Trump man and he was exiting his firm on Wall
Street. He was also in constant touch with anybody from the Trump circle who was
willing to be in touch with him.

The “What to do with the Mooch” question persisted. Kushner, with whom Scaramucci
had exercised a rare restraint during the campaign, and who had steadily heard from other
New York contacts about Scaramucci’s continued loyalty, helped push the question.

Priebus and others held Scaramucci at bay until June and then, as a bit of a punch line,
Scaramucci was offered and, degradingly, had to accept, being named senior vice
president and chief strategy officer for the U.S. Export-Import Bank, an executive branch
agency Trump had long vowed to eliminate. But the Mooch was not ready to give up the
fight: after yet more lobbying, he was offered, at Bannon’s instigation, the post of
ambassador to the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development. The job
came with a twenty-room apartment on the Seine, a full staff, and—Bannon found this
part particularly amusing—absolutely no influence or responsibilities.

OOK Ok

Meanwhile, another persistent question, “What to do with Spicer,” seemed to somehow
have been joined to the disaster involving the bungled response to the news of the June
2016 meeting between Don Jr., Jared, and the Russians. Since the president, while
traveling on Air Force One, had actually dictated Don Jr.’s response to the initial 7imes
report about the meeting, the blame for this should have been laid at the feet of Trump and
Hope Hicks: Trump dictated, Hicks transcribed. But because no disasters could be laid at
the president’s feet, Hicks herself was spared. And, even though he had been pointedly
excluded from the Trump Tower crisis, the blame for the episode was now put at Spicer’s
feet, precisely because, his loyalty in doubt, he and the communications staff had to be
excluded.

In this, the comms team was judged to be antagonistic if not hostile to the interests of
Jared and Ivanka; Spicer and his people had failed to mount an inclusive defense for them,
nor had the comms team adequately defended the White House. This of course homed in
on the essential and obvious point: although the junior first couple were mere staffers and
not part of the institutional standing of the White House, they thought and acted as if they
were part of the presidential entity. Their ire and increasing bitterness came from some of
the staff’s reluctance—teally, a deep and intensifying resistance—to treat them as part and
parcel of the presidency. (Once Priebus had to take Ivanka aside to make sure she
understood that in her official role, she was just a staffer. Ivanka had insisted on the
distinction that she was a staffer-slash-First Daughter.)

Bannon was their public enemy; they expected nothing of him. But Priebus and Spicer

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020089
