having the grand jury actually name the specific indictable crimes for which there was clear
evidence of guilt was important: “This fundamental conclusion [of criminal guilt] should not
be allowed to be lost in a recitation of facts or sources of evidence that omits the basic
judgment involved or leaves it open to public (and Congressional) speculation and debate.”

The memo also noted that the president could be named an unindicted co-conspirator in the
indictment of the other conspirators, the course ultimately chosen by Jaworski.

4. The June 21, 1974, Reply Brief for the United States in US v. Nixon. The U.S. District
Court for the District of Columbia refused Nixon’s motion to expunge his inclusion as an
unindicted co-conspirator in the Watergate indictment. Nixon asked the Supreme Court to
reverse that decision. His lawyers argued that since a sitting president could not be indicted,
neither should he be implicated as an unindicted co-conspirator.

In this filing on behalf of the United States, Jaworski rejected Nixon’s premise that a
president could not be indicted, stating that “It is an open and substantial question whether
an incumbent President is subject to indictment.” The brief argues for indictability before
concluding that it is unnecessary to decide that question in order to resolve whether to permit
his inclusion as an unindicted co-conspirator.

(Despite the filing’s origin in Jaworski’s office, it would be a mistake to argue that this filing
was not in some sense the position of the Department of Justice. Leon Jaworski and his
attorneys were officers of the Department of Justice assigned by the attorney general the
responsibility for advancing the legal positions of the United States, including in
representations to the U.S. Supreme Court.)

The Jaworski filing notes how critical it is to identify the president as one of the criminal
accused: “the identification of each co-conspirator — regardless of station — is a
prerequisite to making his declarations in furtherance of the conspiracy admissible against
the other conspirators.”

Although the brief concludes that “it is by no means clear that a President is immune from
indictment” during his term, the special prosecutor chose not to indict the sitting president
on the basis of “practical arguments.” Those arguments, however,

cannot fairly be stretched to confer immunity on the President from being identified as an
unindicted co-conspirator, when it is necessary to do so in connection with criminal
proceedings against persons unquestionably liable to indictment.

Naming the president as an unindicted co-conspirator was necessary for the grand jury to
return a “true bill,” Jaworski argued, and “required here to outline the full range of the
alleged conspiracy.” There exists, moreover, “a legitimate public purpose in reporting the
fact that serious criminal charges against a government official have been made.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030204
