“generalized dimensions,” Dg, emphasize different aspects of the relative point

density that are assumed to be uniform in the computation of Do. We recall from

above that the power law slope constituting D, = lim a 7
é>0 sal é

. If we emphasize the

component of the probability (measure, uw) or, equivalently, time spent by the orbit in

cube i, “(C,) instead of simply the number of cubes occupied by any points, M(e),

along with the different length scales of the cube as e—0 we have a generalized
dimension. A common expression for the generalized dimension includes the

fractional pre-factor in q written so as to make things come out right:

: M(e)
D, = ,__finn sel where /(qg,¢) = SLAC I. The higher the q, the greater
q-le—>0 In(e) =

the dominance of the higher probability cubes, ~(C,). To see how this q-induced

separation in emphasis might work, if the ratio for q = 2 between the probability
containing cubes 0.25 and 0.05 is 25, their ratio for q = 3 is 125. For q = 0, the
scaling exponent is the capacity dimension. This result of the actions of a changing
q has been analogized to the way changing temperature in a thermodynamic

system evokes different aspects of its behavior.

The “multifractal formalism” generally begins by determining the statistical
densities over a range of scale lengths by one means or another including wavelet
transformations across wavelength scale (Arneodo et al, 1988). These densities by
scale are then systematically raised to a range of q exponents. Since q, and
therefore Dg, can vary continuously, functions are created that shows how D, varies
with q. These are then further transformed, resulting in a single maximum parabolic
curve whose shape and size is sensitive to the conditions of the experiment (Halsey
et al, 1986). Generalized dimensions decrease as q increases. A unique
neuropsychopharmacological application of the multifractal technique to a study of
the behavioral influence of increasing amounts of cocaine on the time-dependent
patterns of spatial exploration, temporal-spatial fluctuations, in rats, demonstrated a
global splitting in the parabolic distribution suggestive of a cocaine-induced global

phase transition, not unlike the well-known, dose-dependent, amphetamine-induced

231

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013731
