connection to individual nghts; we have cut out morality as the governor. This suite of transformations,
enabled by our promiscuous brain, allowed us to occupy a unique position within the animal kingdom as
large scale killers.

Chimpanzees only kill adults when there are many attackers against one victim, with the vast
majority of kills focused on individuals outside of their own group; most kills within the group are aimed
at infants, where the costs to the attacker are low. Though humans also kill members of enemy groups
when there are many against one —a pattern that is common among hunter-gatherers and other small-
scale societies — we depart from this narrow pattern in terms of numbers and the array of potential
victims. When humans kill, we go at it with many against many, one against one, and even one against
many, including as victims both those outside of our group and those within, young and old, same and
opposite sex, and mating partner and competitor.

Add the chimpanzee’s adaptive capacity for coalitionary killing to the promiscuous capacity of
the human brain, and we arrive at a uniquely aggressive species, one capable of inflicting great harm on
others in any context. Though the modern invention of scud missiles and stealth bombers undoubtedly
enriched our capacity to kill on a large scale by putting distance between killers and victims, these
weapons of mass destruction were not necessary. Today, we need only travel back a few years to 1994 to
witness the machete genocides of Rwanda, a painful memory of our capacity to wipe out close to a
million people in 100 days with hand to hand combat. This is excessive harm, enabled by our ability to
use denial to minimize the perceived costs of killing another person and to motivate the anticipated
benefits. Denial turns down the heat of killing another and turns us into callous predators.

Evolutionary changes in the connections to the brain’s reward system provided a second, cost-
offsetting step, allowing us to move into novel arenas for harming others. When an animal wins a fight,
the reward circuitry engages, providing a physiological pat on the back and encouragement for the next
round. This same circuitry even engages in anticipation of a battle or when watching winners. The
reward system is important as it motivates competitive action in situations that are costly. There is one
situation, however, where the reward system is remarkably quiet, at least in all social animals except our
own: detecting and punishing those who attempt to cheat and free-ride on others’ good will.

Punishment carries clear costs, either paid up front in terms of resources expended on physically
or psychologically attacking another, or paid at the end if the victim fights back or retaliates. These costs
can be offset if punishers and their group benefit by removing cheaters or teaching them a lesson. Among
animals, punishment is infrequently seen in vertebrates, especially our closest relatives the nonhuman
primates. When it is seen, the most common context is competition, not cooperation. Like lethal killing,
then, punishment in animals tends to be restricted to a narrow context. Like lethal killing, punishment in

animals is psychologically monogamous.

Hauser Prologue. Evilution 13

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012759
