a shared social goal. Sometimes the goal
is spontaneous as in clapping to
demonstrate appreciation and sometimes
the goal is imposed by the situation (e.g.,
musicians following a musical score and
instructions of a conductor, soldiers
marching to the call of a drill sergeant).
However, when we behave in synchrony
with others, there is a sense of becoming
part of something larger than ourselves.

To the people engaged in
spontaneously synchronized behavior,
there is a clearly identifiable and
seemingly individual ‘cause’ for their
emergent behavior. But when a group
shares the same goal—demonstrating
approval—and engages in the same
action—clapping—the stage is set for
such behavior to become coordinated
and organized even without an external
agent (conductor or drill sergeant). How
do those moments of spontaneous social
aggregation occur? How does the social
brain work to join with others to form
the emergent group?

We have begun to understand the
underlying dynamics of how and when
such phenomena are likely to occur and
even how such phenomena can be
potentially engineered. New insights
afforded by developments in social
psychology, developmental psychology,
and social neuroscience have suggested
the way in which our brains respond to
the invisible force of social connection.
These scientific developments suggest
neural mechanisms that may be
important to the way we interact with
others. At the same time, the insights
also reveal the likely conditions under
which individual self merges into the
group. Such situations when the sense of
self is suspended contrast sharply with
the modern Western notion of the
individual standing apart from others.
Indeed, the traditional Western focus on

Page |59

individual-centered reasons, motives,
intentions, and causes may be at odds
with some forms of spontaneously
synchronized behaviors and group
action.

Towards a Biology of Social
Interaction

Consider the perspective of an
engaged spectator at a singles tennis
match. Although we may be sitting
distant from competitors, if we identify
with one of the players we are not
merely passive observers. On the
contrary, our observation of the events in
the game can serve to activate some of
the same neural mechanisms that would
be active if we were playing the game
rather than just observing it. We can feel
the moves, feel the impetus to defend an
attack, and feel the urge to slam the ball
as if we ourselves are playing, albeit
without actually flailing our arms
around. We may even anticipate a move
by the opponent and imagine ourselves
making the potential response. Research
over the last 10 years or so has revealed
that our brains can map the movements
of other human beings onto our own
bodies almost as if we were making
those movements’. This ability to put
ourselves in another person’s shoes
makes it possible to identify with either
player.

By comparison to the audience,
consider how this ability can serve us as
one of the players. This capacity
provides an important facility for
anticipating our opponent’s moves
allowing us to plan a response even
before the opponent has completed a
groundstroke. This kind of anticipation
does not depend on explicit reasoning or
conscious reflection—it seems to operate
as an automatic mechanism **. This
kind of mechanism may facilitate

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021305
