° Why it matters: The ruling is a blow to AT&T's attempt to show that the
lawsuit to block the deal is politically motivated by President Trump's antipathy for
CNN, which Time Warner owns. AT&T says it wasn't asked to offload any assets as
part of the deal until after Trump took office.

° What they're saying: “We respect the judge’s decision and look forward to
the upcoming trial,” said Dan Petrocelli, who is leading AT&T and Time Warner's
defense in the case, in a statement.

° At a hearing on Friday, a Justice Department lawyer said that AT&T's
argument for the documents didn't make sense.

° Go deeper: Our report from the courtroom on Friday, when DOJ and AT&T
presented their arguments.

Fund scoop: Niv Dror, who joined AngelList through its acquisition of Product Hunt
in 2016, is raising a small early-stage fund focused on consumer products, multiple
sources tell Axios. Dror declined to comment.

° The fund will raise at least $1 million, though one source says it could go up to
$2-3 million.

° Like Product Hunt colleague Ryan Hoover’s own VC fund, Dror’s will be
managed on the back-end by AngelList.

Same old story: Yesterday, I grabbed coffee with Day One Ventures founder Masha
Drokova, and heard a familiar—and still disappointing—story: While raising her fund,
she was told by prospective investors that she should get a male co-founder.

° She initially considered the suggestion, she told me, before remembering it's
rooted in sexism.

Softbank $$$: Softbank’s Vision Fund is in early talks to raise additional funds from
Bahrain’s sovereign wealth fund, Mumtalakat, the latter’s CEO told Reuters.

° The Persian Gulf has been a major source of funds for the Vision Fund: Public
Investment Fund, Saudi Arabia’s main sovereign wealth fund, and Abu Dhabi’s
Mubadala, are already investors.

° And it’s not the only one visiting the region’s investors—funds focused on tokens
and cryptocurrencies have also been fundraising in the area, I’m told.

Unicorn stampede: We're not even two months into 2018 and yet, seven startups
have already seen their private valuations cross the $1 billion mark—earning “unicorn”
status—according to Pitchbook. Last year: 53. The word “overvalued” comes to mind...

a

The BFD

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021098
