relatives were transporting the corpse of her brother-in-law for cremation.

They were accosted by five or six young men who had set up a roadblock, said S.N. Pradhan, a police official in Jharkhand.
According to the criminal complaint, the men stole 40,000 rupees ($625) and then ordered the woman out of the vehicle.
Then they took her to the bush and raped her one by one while others stood watch, he said.

The rape wasn't reported until Friday, when police—investigating reports of highway robbery—discovered a photo of a

policewoman near where the thefts occurred. The superintendent of police asked her why her photo was there and only
then did she report the rape, Mr. Pradhan said.

Back to top

Is there any space in the development debate for African experts?
Andrew Quinn — Guardian blog

Ata 2012 TEDxChange conference in Berlin, African women's development fund CEO Theo Sowa turned the spotlight on
an uncomfortable truth: African women may be the focus of many development campaigns, but they are rarely represented
as drivers of the discussion.

When people portray us as victims, they don't want to ask us about solutions. Because people don't ask victims for
solutions, Sowa told the audience.

Of course, experts from Africa and other parts of the developing world are pioneering solutions to a vast range of
development challenges on everything from improving maternal health to boosting sustainable crop output. Bringing their
perspectives to light should be an integral part of development work, particularly as the international community
contemplates the next steps in the global development agenda beyond the 2015 MDGs.

Celebrity advocates, government officials and major funders all have ready-made platforms for spreading their views — the
power of their brand is often enough to build an audience.

But for those without immediate recognition, the task is harder. The Aspen Institute's New Voices Fellowship, launched this
year with support from the Bill & Melinda Gates foundation, is one attempt to start figuring out an answer by providing both
media coaching and contacts for development experts from Africa and, eventually, other parts of the developing world.

Development experts, so focused on their endless and crucial work, often neglect this area. Yet finding ways to leverage
yours or your colleagues’ public visibility is not as difficult as it sounds. Media training can be expensive, but enormously
beneficial. Persistence pays off. And above all, helping people to think like thought leaders can bring real results.

Our fellows represents a cross-section of the work under way in Africa today, from a Congolese doctor seeking to build a
health system in one of the remotest parts of his country to a Ghanaian tech entrepreneur devising new strategies for
expanding math and science education in rural communities. Each one is an expert, and each one has a story to tell.
Helping them to craft their stories, and find an audience, have been our challenges.

The audience, at least initially, has been the easy part. The explosion of online and issue-driven media over the past decade
has created a wide range of outlets, many of which are eager to bring new voices to light. Development-focused media such
as the Guardian's Global Development section, general interest aggregators such as the Huffington Post, and geographic
specialists such as AllAfrica.com and Think Africa Press all represent potential platforms for fresh writing about
development issues. Even mainstream outlets such as CNN and Al Jazeera are welcoming new contributors for their
opinion sections, while professional community portals such as Business Fights Poverty and the Guardian Global
Development Professionals Network can open the door to engaged specialists who care deeply about the challenges
ahead.

Add to this the increasingly crowded schedule of conferences and meetings ranging from the Clinton Global Initiative and

Skoll World Forum to TEDx events held around the world and it's clear that there are a wealth of opportunities to reach
important audiences with new stories.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019436
