been on the edge of the system. John Casablancas gets with girls the healthy way. Girls would be
with him if he was the butcher. They're with Jean-Luc because he's the boss. Jean-Luc likes
drugs and silent rape. It excites him.

I really despise Jean-Luc as a human being for the way he's cheapened the business, says John
Casablancas. There is no justice. This is a guy who should be behind bars. There was a little
group, Jean-Luc, Patrick Gilles, and Varsano...They were very well-known in Paris for roaming
the clubs. They would invite girls and put drugs in their drinks. Everybody knew they were
creeps.

It should be noted that aside from being a professional rival, Casablancas, the founder of the
agency Elite, was eventually drubbed out of the industry for his own modelizing. How pervy do
you have to be for John Casablancas to call you a perv?

Pervy enough to drug and rape numerous teenagers, according to 60 Minutes and Diane Sawyer,
who investigated Brunel in 1988. The program interviewed nearly two dozen models who said
they had been sexually assaulted by Brunel and/or by his fellow agent, Claude Haddad. Even at
that time, Brunel had a reputation as a man one could go to to procure a date with a young
model. CBS spoke to five models who said that Brunel and/or his friends had drugged and raped
them. Said producer Craig Pyes, Hundreds of girls were not only harassed, but molested.

When Gross interviewed Brunel, this is what he had to say for himself:

“You get laid tonight with a model, is that a crime? I don't understand why people go into your
personal life, what you do yourself, and to yourself, and they don't look at things that are really
important.”

Since then, Brunel has been involved with a succession of agencies in New York and Paris.
Although the 60 Minutes scandal eventually led Eileen Ford to stop working with him, he
continued his involvement with Karins. In 1988, when powerhouse agency Next opened its
doors, Brunel took an ownership stake. He also discovered Christy Turlington when she was
14. MC2 is only his latest venture. Because no criminal charges were ever filed by any of his
accusers, and because the industry has a short memory — most models working today weren't
even born when Sawyer and Pyes started looking into Brunel's activities — Brunel has been free
to continue as he pleases. A French citizen, he even avoided testifying in his friend Epstein's
trial.

And so Brunel is still criss-crossing the globe, trawling for 5'10 13-year-olds from Eastern
Europe and (the whiter parts of) South America. And apparently taking the occasional ride with

them on Epstein’s private jet. Is there any better argument for the regulation of the modeling
industry?

http://nypost.com/201 1/1 1/18/jeffrey-epsteins-level-3-sex-offender-status-upheld-by-ny-appeals-
court/

31

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011942
