Sultan (who had studied psychology)
and his “lie-detecting” donkey. Lore has
it that the Sultan was missing a valuable
vase from his estate and suspected that
one of his servants had stolen the piece.
To identify the culprit, the Sultan
gathered his servants in front of a dark
room in which a donkey was tied, and
then asked each of his servants if they
had stolen the item. Each said “no”. The
Sultan explained that inside the room
was a magical donkey, specially trained
to detect liars, who would bray when
slapped by someone who had lied. The
servants were sent into the room, one by
one, and were instructed to close the
door, slap the donkey and return. “When
the donkey brays,” the Sultan
proclaimed, “I will have my culprit”.
The first servant was sent into the room
and returned shortly thereafter--
tremendously relieved as the donkey had
not brayed. One by one, the remaining
servants entered the room and returned.
The donkey had not brayed and all the
servants looked quite relaxed. The
Sultan was sanguine -- he knew this
donkey never brayed under any
circumstances. The Sultan asked the
servants to show him their hands. He
then pointed to one of them and declared
“we have our thief,” instructing the
guards to take him away. How had he
identified the culprit? Rather than
relying on a magical donkey, the Sultan,
who recall was a student of psychology,
took a more rational approach.
Understanding the impact of beliefs on
behavior, the Sultan had surreptitiously
infiltrated powdered charcoal into the
donkey’s hair. When the servants
slapped the donkey, the charcoal marked
their hands—with the exception of the
guilty servant who had not slapped the
donkey, out of a belief and associated
fear that the donkey could detect a liar!

Page |51

Power of Beliefs

Beliefs may be potent
determinants of behavior, but can they
kill? And if so, how? How can these
invisible, intangible entities impact
health? In a now classic article published
in the American Anthropologist in 1942,
Walter Cannon, a leading Harvard
physiologist and expert on the
autonomic nervous system, proposed an
answer (1). Investigating phenomena
such as voodoo practices of the Haitians
and “bone-pointing” among Australian
aborigines, Cannon found a common
feature among the victims of such rituals
was a strong belief in the curse and an
associated morbid fear of the outcome.
That fear, he argued, could trigger a
“fight-or-flight reaction” (a phrase he
had earlier coined), characterized by
powerful and exaggerated activation of
the sympathetic nervous system. The
resulting vascular constriction
diminishes blood flow to critical tissues
(i.e., ischemia), with consequent hypoxia
(decreased oxygen) and disturbances in
normal metabolism and cellular
function. These reactions may be
exacerbated by the lack of food and
water as the victim “pines away.”
Cannon argued that these reactions could
become life-threatening—fulfilling the
gruesome legacy of the ritual—based on
a belief in the supernatural, the veracity
of which is largely irrelevant. More
relevant is the emotion triggered by the
belief, specious as it may be.

Beliefs and emotions have
consequences, both behavioral and
physiological. A recent example comes
from the contemporary medical
literature. There is now a well-
documented condition, sometimes
triggered by something as innocuous as a
spousal argument or a surprise birthday
party, which entails the hallmark clinical

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021297
