816

years was reasonable). Prince Mohamed
correctly submits that his position as an
officer of DMI, IICG, and FIBS would not
be a basis for jurisdiction over him even if
the Court had personal jurisdiction over
these entities. See Keeton v. Hustler
Magazine, Inc., 465 U.S. 770, 781 n. 18,
104 S.Ct. 1478, 79 L.Ed.2d 790 (984)
(“Each defendant’s contacts with the fo-
rum State must be assessed individually.”).
Finally, Prince Mohamed argues that the
conclusory allegation that he participated
in a terrorist conspiracy, without specific
facts, is insufficient to create personal ju-
risdiction over him.

[60] The Court agrees that Plaintiffs
have not presented a prima facie case of
general jurisdiction over Prince Mohamed.
In the ten years before the attacks, Prince
Mohamed’s contacts with the United
States consist of one speech and a handful
of investments in the United States
through the banks with which he is affiliat-
ed. These contacts are not sufficiently
“systematic and continuous” to maintain
general jurisdiction over a defendant in
this action.** See Helicopteros, 466 U.S. at
416, 104 S.Ct. 1868 (holding that purchas-
ing in forum, sending personnel for train-
ing in forum, and negotiating a contract in
forum were not sufficient to establish gen-
eral jurisdiction).

[61,62] Plaintiffs have alleged that
DMI and FIBS might have been involved
in the financing of terrorism. See, ¢.g.,
Ashton Complaint 19 274-75; Ashton Opp.
at 25. Even assuming that the Court has
personal jurisdiction over these entities,
“[t]he mere fact that a corporation is sub-
ject to jurisdiction ... does not mean that
individual officer may be hauled before
New York courts without any showing that
the individuals themselves maintained a

36. There is no allegation that Prince Mo-
hamed’s investments in the United States are

349 FEDERAL SUPPLEMENT, 2d SERIES

presence or conducted business in New
York.” Family Internet, 1999 WL 796177,
at *4. Plaintiffs have not alleged that
Prince Mohamed had any knowledge or
involvement in any al Qaeda accounts at
any of the banks he chaired. FIBS’ rela-
tionship with Al Shamal Islamic Bank,
which purportedly knowingly opened ac-
counts for al Qaeda operatives, including
Osama bin Laden, is too remote in time
and proximity to implicate Prince Mo-
hamed. To make a prima facie case of
personal jurisdiction, Plaintiffs must either
allege personal acts by Prince Mohamed
by which he purposefully directed his ac-
tivities at the United States by supporting
Osama bin Laden, al Qaeda, or their ter-
rorist agenda, or demonstrate that the acts
of the banks he chaired can be imputed to
him. Plaintiffs have not met their burden.
Thus, Prince Mohamed’s motions to dis-
miss the Ashton and Federal complaints as
against him for lack of personal jurisdic-
tion are granted.

4, Estate of Mohammad Abdullah
Aljomaih

On May 2, 2003 by Second Addition and
Removal of Defendants Pursuant to Case
Management Order No. 1 imposed by
Judge Robertson, the Burnett Plaintiffs
added a defendant “Mohammed Bin Ab-
dullah Al-Jomaith.” To date, no specific
allegations have been added to the com-
plaint with respect to Mr. Aljomaih.

In anticipation of what the claims
against him might be, before his death Mr.
Aljomaih prepared a declaration in support
of his motion to dismiss. He was born in
Saudi Arabia in 1915 and lived in Riyadh
for most of his life. Aljomaih Decl. 13. He
and his family began a company in the
1940s that now supplies automobiles, soft
drinks, construction equipment, and other

related to any alleged conspiracy or to al
Qaeda’s activities.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017881
