rERSON

s them inside. She introduces
ter. Jenny is sixteen years old.
table, they see that she's ner-
id fidgeting, she tells them that
house.

But nothing much happened.
some time in the kitchen is all.

e says. “But really, I just want to

- “You have our numbers. But

g else, you'll find that we're very

ve Michael Dawson have better
:,a girl who tells them that a year
ne she knew from high school —
illo Way.

seventeen at the time.

» a sworn statement. The officers

money working for Jeff. She was
de a massage for Jeff... She was

by [Dobbs]. They met with ie
'y in the Kitchen area. Francine
for her in the kitchen.

68

Fiirtuy Ricu

Just as she did with Mary, a woman named Sarah had taken
Francine upstairs and into a bedroom. Then Epstein had entered
the room, wearing only a towel.

She kept her clothes on during the massage. She advised
sometime during the massage, Epstein grabbed her buttocks
and pulled her close to him. Francine said she was [made]
uncomfortable by the incident involving Jeff. At the conclu-
sion of the massage she was paid $200.00 for the massage.

“Do you have any formal training in massages?” the offi-
cers ask.

“No,” says Francine.

But she does have one more thing to tell them.

Sarah's been calling Francine’s cell phone.

It could mean any number of things. The police know already
that Epstein’s caught wind of their investigation. Now it appears
he's doing something about it, or at least he’s delegating the
responsibility. This troubles the cops. But then, on that same
day, they get one more break: Jenny calls and says that without
her parents around she’s willing to make a sworn statement.

It turns out that Jenny’s visited with Epstein several times.
And, it turns out, she’d done much more than sit in the

| kitchen. Without her parents around, she’s much more willing to
) talk about it.

The first time she'd gone to the house on El Brillo Way, she

4 Says, Epstein had tried to take off her shirt. She’d become upset,

69

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019185
