Doesn't look like you are prioritizing your schedule very effectively.....how are you going to manage
all of that? this is unga week so the boss will be in town too.....I'll be here all week -- you may get
sick of me....just sat down on the train so can't talk freely.

On Sep 19, 2014 7:48 AM, jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote:
oirls?,, careful i will renew an old habit, . this week, thiel, summers,bill burns, gordon brown,
jagland, ( council of europe and nobel chairman ). mongolia pres , hardeep puree ( india), boris (
gates). jabor ( qatar ). sultan ( dubai, ), kosslyn ( harvard), leon black, woody. you are a welcome
guest at any..... also if you think there are interesting people in town, everyone here for climate
summit , clinton ,security council, holy shit im 7 for next 30 minutes

On Fri, Sep 19, 2014 at 7:15 AM, Kathy Ruemmlcr (i wrote:

Most girls do not have to worry about this crap.

On Sep 19, 2014 7:09 AM, jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote:
understood. it comes down to high risk / reward / low risk / reward. professional , emotional.
and fiinancial

On Fri, Sep 19, 2014 at 6:15 AM, Kathy Ruemmler <q wrote:
Agreed, but I need to be prepared to say yes before I talk to him.

Sent from my iPad

On Sep 19, 2014, at 1:21 AM, jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote:

You need to talk to boss

please note
The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of
JEE
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited
and may be unlawful. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and
destroy this communication and all copies thereof,
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved

please note
The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of
JEE

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029214
