300 M. Hoffman et al.

Fig. 4 The Coordination
Game. In our applications, A
stands for punish, and B

stands for don’t punish

attention or do not have enough time to react with better judgment (DeScioli
et al., 2011). Relative to the example of the tennis player with the allergy
described above, it is usually hard to distinguish between a competitor who does
not notice his opponent orders the dish with the allergen versus one who notices
but does not care. In contrast, transgressions of commission must be intended
almost by definition.

4. Suppose the witness knows an omission was intentional: In the above example,
the tennis player’s opponent’s allergy is widely known, and the witness saw the
player watch his opponent order the offending dish, had time to react, thought
about it, but did not to say anything. The witness suspects that others do not
know the competitor was aware his opponent ordered the dish, but believes the
tennis player should be condemned for purposely withholding information from
his competitor. However, since the witness does not wish to be the sole con-
demner, she is unlikely to condemn. In contrast, when a witness observes a trans-
gression of commission (e.g., the player recommends the dish), the witness is
relatively confident that others present interpret the transgression as purposely
harmful, since his recommendation reveals that the player was obviously paying
attention and therefore intended to harm his opponent. So, if all other individuals
present condemn the tennis player when they observe the commission, each does
not anticipate being the sole condemner.

For the above result to hold, all that is needed is the following: (1) The more the costs
of punishment decrease, the more others punish and (2) omissions are usually unintended
(Dalkiran, Hoffman, Paturi, Ricketts, & Vattani, 2012; Hoffman et al., 2015).*

*Tn fact, even if one knows that others know that the transgression was intended, omission will still
be judged as less wrong, since the transgression still won’t create what game theorists call common
p-belief, which is required for an event to influence behavior in a game with multiple equilibria.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015512
