down” the expansive flow back onto the road, the entire constrictive field called the
stable manifold. This influence herds points into shadowing the main road of the
dynamics, like the hair of the dog that stay close to the real body of the animal in
motion. It is in this way that just a few often slightly off the mark points nonetheless
shadow the real (called fiduciary) orbits of the attractor, outlining its global geometry
with just a little information.

The intuitive reason shadowing works Is built into these natural countervailing
tendencies of hyperbolic dynamics, which on one hand tends to spread out nearby
initial points and brings disparate others together. The latter inclination is the one
that smoothes down the escaping points onto surfaces of actions that
mathematicians call manifolds. However, the details of the orbital paths don’t look
that orderly due to the mixing of the sequence of points in hyperbolic motion. The
mixing process on manifolds has been analogized to that of the bundled pink loops
of the stretching (expanding) and folding (contracting) taffy puller at the carnival
candy stand. The process gets sequences of small particles of candy out of
sequential order while maintaining the taffy’s overall geometrically ovoid shape.
Disorder is local with the entropy being generated by the repeatedly shuffling of the
line up of the original orbital sequence. This results in the impossibility of any point-
to-point prediction for more than a few points even though the over all shape is
maintained. Exactly what minute a habitually late sleeper awakes can’t be
predicted. On the other hand, the skeletal manifold of the global structure is entirely
in evidence from almost the beginning. Late risers remain late risers even without a
precise, minute-to-minute, predictable schedule.

It is also interesting that a uniformly hyperbolic dynamical system, unlike the
fixed-point attractors of stylistic fixation, resist perturbation-induced changes in
global dynamical form. In an apparent paradox worthy of metaphysical allusion, the
dynamically hyperbolic kind of formlessness has structural stability. The global
geometric predictability of this point-to-point, completely unpredictable system can
be both the subject and object of Zen frustration and thoughtful meditation.

During weekly professorial rounds at Los Angeles’s Neuropsychiatric

Institute, | assigned a standard exercise for psychiatric residents on clinical rounds,

27

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013527
