almost had a heart attack when | threw my arms around Iranian director Asghar Farhadi, which in Iran
is unacceptable behavior especially by a Jewish American Princess. Tom wished | had gone to the
crowded champagne brunch in honor of Prince Albert and Princess Charlene at the Bel-Air Hotel where
Montblanc launched Grace Kelly watches. Simultaneously, TV producer Gary Pudney hosted another
secretive lunch which Albert and Charlene actually attended with Graydon Carter, Carolina Herrera,
Wallace Annenberg, Bobby Shriver, Bobby Marx, Kathy and Ricky Hilton and Lynn Wyatt. Wolfgang Puck
joined them for dessert.

The French, as the The Artist gang was nicknamed, had won six Cesars, France's version of the Oscars
in Paris the night before. They flew all night and Harvey's chauffeur arranged a police escort from LAX
just in time for them to win four Spirit Awards, cementing the Oscar win.

Back at the BHH, Spielberg was the first to arrive at the tenth annual Night Before fundraiser in
support of the Motion Picture and Television Fund. Jeffrey Katzenberg had already secured $200 of a
$350 million fundraising goal that included money from him, Tom Cruise, Steve Bing, Casey Wasserman,
Clooney and Spielberg. Every nominee showed up.

Chanel and Charles Finch cooked up their chic soiree at Madeo, where a mariachi band enthusiastically
announced everyone's arrival. Bedecked exclusively in Chanel were Diane Kruger, Rose Byrne, Ginnifer
Goodwin, and Rachel Bilson. Also air kissing were Rachel Zoe, Rosanna Arquette, Alice Evans and
loan Gruffudd, Zachary Quinto, and Julia Ormond.

Elizabeth Olsen who has six upcoming films, gushed to Dustin Hoffman that Wag the Dog was her
favorite movie. | sat next to director, Michael Apted who was editing “Of Men and Mavericks,” a surfer
film he co-directed with Curtis Hanson.

“My Week With Marilyn’s” English director Simon Curtis insisted we join Kenneth Branagh at The
Weinstein Company’s bash at the Soho House in time to hear Tony Bennett sing “Autumn Leaves” to
Harvey’s surprised 86 year-old mother Miriam, Madonna and Meryl. Jean Dujardin, Berenice Bejo,
Michel Hazanavicius and producer Thomas Langmann staggered around completely jet lagged and too
tired to speak English. Uggie on the other hand was the absolute star of the evening as his trainer
placed him in everyone’s arms for photo two shots. “W.E’s” Andrea Riseborough and Abbie Cornish sat
next to baseball cap-clad Leonardo DiCaprio as his ex Bar Refaeli kept her distance across the room. Zoe
Saldana walked in holding hands with Bradley Cooper. Scarlett Johansson introduced me to her
boyfriend Nate Naylor. Katy Perry, Felicity Jones and Malin Akerman circled a refreshed Gerard Butler.
The two daughters of New York slain hero cop Peter Figoski, Corrine, 14 and Caroline, 16 who had also
been Harvey’s guests at the Super Bowl stood in the middle of this circus and just fainted.

Sunday, February 26

| met interior designer Nicky Haslam in the Polo Lounge and found Nancy Reagan brunching with Bob
Colacello and Carolina Herrera. Nancy knows me as “The DVD Lady.” | promised to send her “The Iron
Lady”. | didn’t have the heart to tell her that her husband, who was Margaret Thatcher’s best friend,
was barely mentioned in the film.

In a Marchesa gown, Dennis Basso fur and Iradj Moini necklace, | collected Simon Curtis and headed to

the Hollywood & Highland Center. Simon, who has never been to the Oscars before, miraculously scored
a front row seat between Michelle Williams and Clooney. We pulled up to screams of hysteria at the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013447
