Mind over Computer 31

high IQ. Functional MRI scans show intelligent people use more neurons
when tackling a given mental task, perhaps bringing to bear greater raw
horsepower, but this is not really an explanation. It is akin to saying Usain
Bolt runs faster because he gets more power to his legs. This is obvious.
What we want to know is how.

The problem with looking at brains for a common cause is the
variation from brain to brain. We all have different genes and life
experiences. On top of this, we really only see brains post mortem and
this tends to confound comparisons of brain structure. One way to
minimize the variation is to use separated identical twins. Twins have
identical genes so their fundamental hardware is the same. We should be
able to see features of the brain that are common to smart sets of twins but
absent in less smart pairs. If a feature is not shared it can be discounted as
something accidental, caused by disease, environment, or the like.

When we examine smart twins, they appear to have greater
myelination of their neurons. Myelin is a flat protein that acts as an
insulating sheath, wrapping the nerves and the neurons in our brain.
Myelination appears to be part of the mechanism involved in laying
down long-term memory — more myelin, more memories. It may also
help sustain signals and allow them to move faster over a longer distance:
the increased insulation allowing the brain to include information from
more distant parts of the brain within a given thought. But increased
myelination may be an effect of higher intelligence rather than a cause.
The brain is responsible for a significant part of our overall energy
consumption so insulating the neurons might simply help with energy
conservation. This is an active area of research.

Evolution also gives a clue to the causes of intelligence. Humans,
nonhuman primates, and dolphins all share spindle neurons. These
spread across the brain and appear to help us coordinate complex
actions between the different parts. The high function intelligence that
characterizes these disparate species requires a great deal of cooperation
between different areas of the brain. Take playing a musical instrument.
This uses physical coordination (motor cortex), sound processing
(auditory cortex), rhythm (another part of the motor cortex), along
with emotional interpretation (amygdala). Humans have more spindle
cells than other animals so this might explain our superior ability in
performing these complex tasks.

However plausible these ideas, they are all hardware arguments. It
is like me saying my word processor is better than yours because it has
gold plated connectors. That might be true — it might allow the machine
to run a little faster without electrical errors creeping in, but we all know

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015721
