200 Teaching Minds

work hard to be famous superstars. They are in exactly the same game
as their Yale counterparts, so it follows that they don’t want to teach
either.

But the numbers are much bigger at Illinois. Classes are larger and
faculty have to teach more classes. So these same people, who would
readily move to an institution that didn’t treat them like this, are stuck
competing with their Yale colleagues and, at the same time, having so
many more undergraduates to deal with.

Guess who loses?

And, I haven’t even started to discuss the idea that most students
at Illinois do not go there to become professors or intellectuals, or
hobnob with the best and brightest. The faculty think they are (or
ought to be) at Yale, but the students do not. The students want to
get jobs 4 years later. Good luck with that. That is not what Yale is for.

I was told that explicitly one day, by the way. I had to give a short
talk to entering freshmen at Yale when I was the department chair.
The idea was to extol the virtues of majoring in the field represented
by the chair. Each chair gave a short speech. Mine, as usual, was the
shortest. Major in computer science—get a job. That was my speech.

I was booed.

I was booed by the freshmen, who by this time at Yale had been
there maybe 5 minutes but had already absorbed the zeitgeist of the
place. Yale was for thinkers not workers.

By the way, that was in 1982 or so. All our computer science gradu-
ates went to work at Microsoft in those years. There were lots of million-
aire alums not too long after. (Presumably, not those who were booing.)

They wouldn’t have booed at Illinois, and that is the point. Yale
is not the problem unless you realize that it sets the direction for ev-
ery other university in the country. It doesn’t do this by itself and it
doesn’t do it intentionally. Nevertheless, it ruins the chances that II-
linois graduates will receive a reasonably practical education that actu-
ally might get them jobs or teach them how to live in the real world.

So, we have created a system that values heavy intellectuals and
gives them a place to do their thing. Is this bad? How could it be bad?
It certainly isn’t bad for the intellectuals. But it is bad for the students.
Not necessarily for the students at Yale, although there are certainly
unhappy students there. It is bad for the society at large. Students
don’t need to major in subjects unless they intend to become profes-
sionals in those subjects. Actually, they need to intend to be profes-
sional researchers in those subjects, since the faculty really don’t know

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023946
