* From 1965 to 2005 (a period chosen to exclude abnormal trends related to the recent
recession), annual revenue growth (3%) has been roughly in line with GDP growth, but
corporate income taxes have grown 2% a year. Social insurance taxes grew 5% annually and
represented 37% of USA Inc. revenue, compared with 19% in 1965. An expert might ask:

o What level of social insurance or entitlement taxes can USA Inc. support without reducing
job creation?

o Are low corporate income taxes important to global competitive advantage and stimulating
growth?

* Entitlement spending has risen 5% a year on average since 1965, well above average annual
GDP growth of 3%, and now absorbs 51% of all expenses, more than twice its share in 1965.
Defense and non-defense discretionary spending (including infrastructure, education, and law
enforcement) is up just 1-2% annually over that period. Questions for shareholders:

o Do USA Inc.’s operations run at maximum efficiency? Where are the opportunities for cost
savings?

o Should all expense categories be benchmarked against GDP growth? Should some grow
faster or slower than GDP? If so, what are the key determinants?

o Would greater investment in infrastructure, education, and global competitiveness yield
more long-term security for the elderly and disadvantaged?

With expenses outstripping revenues by a large (and growing) margin, a turnaround expert
would develop an analytical framework for readjusting USA Inc.’s business model and strategic
plans. Prudence would dictate that our expert assume below-trend GDP growth and above-trend
unemployment, plus rising interest rates — all of which would make the base case operating
scenario fairly gloomy.

This analysis can’t ignore our dependence on entitlements. Almost one-third of all
Americans have grown up in an environment of lean savings and heavy reliance on
government healthcare subsidies. It’s not just a question of numbers — it’s a question of
our responsibilities as citizens...and what kind of society we want to be.

Some 90 million Americans (out of a total population of 307 million) have grown accustomed to
support from entitlement programs; so, too, have 14 million workers in the healthcare industry
who, directly or indirectly, benefit from government subsidies via Medicare and Medicaid. Low
personal savings and high unemployment make radical change difficult. Political will can be
difficult to summon, especially during election campaigns.

B
GB www.kpcb.com USA Inc. xiv

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020837
