The South China Sea, the Senkaku/Diaoyu, and the ADIZ

Some may argue that China is clearly adopting a more assertive policy in
East Asia — using the South China Sea, the Senkaku/Diaoyu islands
dispute, or the Air Defense Identification Zone as examples. However,
there is a difference, and this has to do with the “sphere of influence” of
China and, more specifically, with the sovereignty and integrity of
Chinese national territory (as Beijing defines it). For the CCP, the Syrian
crisis is a “pure” foreign policy issue, as the Chinese government has no
territorial claim in Syria or in the Middle East in general. On the other
hand, Beijing has always considered the South China Sea and the
Senkaku/Diaoyu islands as part of its sphere of influence and by
vigorously defending its claims on those territorial disputes, the CCP
purports to do nothing but protect its territorial integrity. It’s arguable that
this concern with territory has been the very first priority of China
throughout its history. The debate over the East China Sea ADIZ, which
China established in November, can also be related to the territorial
integrity of the Middle Kingdom. However, Western criticisms should be
balanced against the knowledge that the ADIZ is an American invention
(1950), which South Korea (1951) and Japan (1969) adopted long before
China did. At any rate, the South China Sea, the Senkaku/Diaoyu islands,
and the ADIZ issues are domestic issues for the CCP, rather than “pure”
foreign policy matters.

This article doesn’t seek to take a normative position. Rather, the point is
that in the Syrian crisis China has followed a consistent foreign policy, in
line with its principles and traditions. The outcome of this policy may not
satisfy many Western actors, but that is not enough to accuse China of
following a more assertive foreign policy toward Western powers and the
U.S. in particular. Of course, the new status of China in the international
community allows it to make its voice heard, instead of the silence that
may have prevailed before its economic arrival. But the considerations of
the CCP as it formulates its foreign policy have remained the same since
the creation of the PRC. In the future, China is likely to be more capable
of achieving its goals in its “domestic” Northeast Asian claims, but there

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031589
