Réssler’s generic chaotic system (see above) moving recurrently in a three

dimensional box can be orthogonally decomposed into three directional motions in a
moving frame, each with a signatory sign of 2. The unstable direction of expansive
stretching is characterized by some number > 0, A(+), the stable direction of
contractive folding, some number, < 0, A(-), and the neutrally stable direction of
recurrence, (0). For The “Lyapounov spectrum” of the Réssler attractor is
[A(4), A(-),4(0)] (Shaw, 1981). An n-dimensional dynamical systems has n one-
dimensional Lyapounov exponents, and it is sometimes the case in relatively noise
free, finite semi-stationary data lengths of the neurosciences, that a 2>0 can be
shown to exist for a second one, in a dynamical situation called “hyperchaos” by
(Rossler, 1979). For example, two and sometimes three 4(+) have been reported in

the flows on the EEG attractor of normal alert subjects (Gallez and Babloyantz,
1991). The presence of measurement noise, the finiteness of neurophysiological
sample lengths as well as the relatively small expansive actions in some directions

in the chaotic attractors of brain dynamics lead to the finding that most often, only
one “leading Lyapounov exponent,” 4(+), is reliably computable (Sano and

Sawada, 1885; Wolf et al, 1985; Eckmann et al, 1986).

A counter-intuitive fact about the stability of a dynamical system when a
decrease in the value of 4(+)is observed such that 2(+)—> A(0), is that this more
neutral stability augers a global bifurcation (Guckenheimer and Holmes, 1983). A
small perturbation does not change the global dynamics of an already expanding
and contracting (called “hyperbolic”) dynamical system, it will maintain the style of
its motions. However, when 4(+)—> 1(0), a velocity changing perturbation evokes a
bifurcation to a new dynamic in what is called “loss of hyperbolic stability.” The best
examples come from the observations of this kind of change in the EEG predicting
the onset of epileptic seizures in patients with focal or temporal lobe epilepsy
(lasemidis et al, 1988,1990; lasemidis and Sackellares, 1996 ).

219

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013719
