reach that you have and then could you say a little bit about the current dynamic of what’s
going on at the moment in the States.

Bannon: Outside of Fox News and the Drudge Report, we’re the third-largest
conservative news site and, quite frankly, we have a bigger global reach than even Fox.
And that’s why we’re expanding so much internationally.

Look, we believe — strongly — that there is a global tea party movement. We've seen that.
We were the first group to get in and start reporting on things like UKIP and Front
National and other center right. With all the baggage that those groups bring — and trust
me, a lot of them bring a lot of baggage, both ethnically and racially — but we think that
will all be worked through with time.

The central thing that binds that all together is a center-right populist movement of really
the middle class, the working men and women in the world who are just tired of being
dictated to by what we call the party of Davos. A group of kind of — we’re not conspiracy-
theory guys, but there’s certainly — and I could see this when I worked at Goldman Sachs
— there are people in New York that feel closer to people in London and in Berlin than
they do to people in Kansas and in Colorado, and they have more of this elite mentality
that they’re going to dictate to everybody how the world’s going to be run.

I will tell you that the working men and women of Europe and Asia and the United States
and Latin America don’t believe that. They believe they know what’s best for how they will
comport their lives. They think they know best about how to raise their families and how
to educate their families. So I think you're seeing a global reaction to centralized
government, whether that government is in Beijing or that government is in Washington,

DC, or that government is in Brussels. So we are the platform for the voice of that.

“Putin’s ... very, very very intelligent. I can see this in the United States where he’s
playing very strongly to social conservatives about his message about more traditional
values, so I think it’s something that we have to be very much on guard of.”

Now, with that, we are strong capitalists. And we believe in the benefits of capitalism. And,
particularly, the harder-nosed the capitalism, the better. However, like I said, there’s two

strands of capitalism that we’re quite concerned about.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029027
