acceleration, measured as thrift —Ac, and ex post acceleration Ag at the same

moment. Otherwise we don’t have the clearest test between free growth and thrift
theories. Both agree that consumption can keep pace with output and capital over

time. Free growth theory asserts that they keep pace continuously.

Correlations tell the same story. Tables show that coefficients between r and g
run about 1, as with the free growth index, while correlations between f and g run

about zero.

I do not claim that anyone but Mill and | has actually proposed free growth theory,
nor that anyone at all has proposed thrift theory as here defined. It is my impression,
not assertion, that modern consensus fits thrift theory given Harrod’s qualifier that
attempted (ex ante) net saving (thrift) must not exceed the technological growth

rate (warranted growth path). My impression is that Solow and modern tradition
agree, but blunt Harrod’s knife edge. Free growth theory counters that the same
growth arrives costlessly when ex ante net saving/investment is held at zero. Nor do
I claim that data shown in my charts and tables prove free growth theory. Rather

they demonstrate that all growth has proved free wherever measured to date.

Saving /Investment

Unlike Lord Keynes and modern tradition, I define saving and investment as
synonymous from the start. | don’t strictly need either term. My “transfer in”,
“unrealized output” and “plowback” arrive at the same thing. But | know I must do
my best to write in a language already understood. | will usually say “investment” to

mean saving/investment, and will use Keynes’ notation I for both.

Keynes did not explicitly recognize human capital, although he very probably

understood it. He treated investment in physical capital only. I notate this I(K). I also
treat investment in total capital, to be notated I(K,). Each, as in Keynes, sums
depreciation recovery and “net investment”. The latter, in my treatment, is

APPENDIX A: The Argument in Notation 3/7/16 20

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011146
