Dershowitz filed against eac 
2016—reaching a crescend 
the plot to blackmail Les 
involved agreed to settle, i 
Edwards and Cassell ackn( 
filed sexual misconduct acci 
sexual misconduct accusatic 
ing all exhibits) are hereby 
draws his accusations ti 
unethically. Neither Edward 
intention of repeating the 
Dershowitz also hired form( 
an independent investigatior 
LTTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
to was arrested for hiding more 
of jewelry. 
r people involved in Rothstein's 
:.ration with the feds, his was the 
which all the victims recovered 
in was put into a witness protec-
fifty-year sentence anonymously, 
n. 
nshowitz arrived at Shriver Hall, 
s University, in Baltimore, to talk 
so obvious, he said. There has 
k, a group of women—students 
opkins Feminists—stood up in 
ith duct tape over their mouths, 
d out of the hall. 
n read. 
!. student paper asked Dershowitz 
s victims. Wasn't it true that Der-
those victims was asking for it? 
showitz replied. I have an obliga-
ovide a full and zealous defense to 
all the things you had just listed, I 
und incompetent as counsel. 
?.72 
He asked the reporter, Would any defense lawyer not look 
on the websites, look on social networks, find out what the 
woman who was accusing my client was doing? We were able to 
disprove many of the charges, just like how I was able to dis-
prove the charges against me. Falsely charging somebody with 
rape is a heinous thing to do. First of all, it creates horrors for the 
person who has been falsely accused. Second, it so hurts real 
rape victims because it makes it clear that some women lie for 
money. Our country, unlike others, requires that everybody be 
defended, and I'm going to continue to do that whether my cli-
ents are guilty or innocent. Let me tell you, most of my clients 
have been guilty. They deserve a zealous defense just as anybody 
else. I'm very proud of what I did for Jeffrey Epstein. If people 
don't like the fact that I got a 'good deal,' that's the job I do. 
The suits and countersuits Paul Cassell, Bradley Edwards, and 
Dershowitz filed against each other dragged on into the spring of 
2016 —reaching a crescendo with Dershowitz's argument about 
the plot to blackmail Les Wexner. But on April 8, all the parties 
involved agreed to settle, issuing a joint statement that read: 
Edwards and Cassell acknowledge that it was a mistake to have 
filed sexual misconduct accusations against Dershowitz; and the 
sexual misconduct accusations made in all public filings (includ-
ing all exhibits) are hereby withdrawn. Dershowitz also with-
draws his accusations that Edwards and Cassell acted 
unethically. Neither Edwards, Cassell, nor Dershowitz have any 
intention of repeating the allegations against one another. 
Dershowitz also hired former FBI director Louis J. Freeh to do 
an independent investigation. Freeh concluded that the evidence 
273 
JAMES PATTERSON 
his team reviewed refuted the accusations of sexual misconduct 
against Dershowitz. 
For Alan Dershowitz, the long nightmare he'd had to endure as a 
result of his friendship with Jeffrey Epstein finally seemed to be over. 
Ghislaine Maxwell 
Trying to put her troubles with Epstein behind her, Ghislaine 
Maxwell took up a new calling. 
She's doing something to save the oceans now, a socialite says 
over the din of cocktail-party chatter at a private Palm Beach Club. 
Maxwell's nonprofit, the TerraMar Project, describes itself as 
a platform for citizenship and transformation of the high seas. 
Its focus is on cleaning up the eight million metric tons of plastic 
debris —garbage— that are dumped into the world's oceans 
each year. (Sources say that an earlier enterprise, the Seed Media 
Group, was funded by Jeffrey Epstein in 2005 to the tune of two 
million dollars.) 
Is anybody here staying awake at night because they're 
frightened about the ocean? she asks in 2014 at a TEDx talk in 
Charlottesville, Virginia. Are you scared about what could hap-
pen? Are you trying to think about what could you do that would 
help the ocean and all its myriad of troubles? 
But although her efforts on behalf of the environment are sin-
cere and articulate, Ghislaine still appears in the society pages. 
In 2010, she attends Chelsea Clinton's wedding in Rhine-
beck, New York. 
In 2014, New York journalist Richard Johnson reports that 
she's newly back from running in an Iditarod dogsled race in 
274 
Alaska. It's hard to top C 
department, he writes. 
Upon her return, the r 
International hosts Maxv 
chef for Madame Chiang I 
Sources say that Max\ 
ship with the Clintons. Sh 
Maxwell has repeatedly di 
Roberts—and continues 
Maxwell says she's had no ( 
involving Virginia Roberts 
frey Epstein. She claims th 
as a sex slave has change 
each telling, Virginia adds s 
figures. Nevertheless, legal 
In 2015, Virginia Robe' 
woman she says recruited he 
Way. In January of 2016, Rc 
that a defamation suit filed al 
predator, was directly relevan 
Maxwell filed an answer in ci 
and accusing Roberts of fabri( 
As of this writing, the si 
Prince Andrew 
In January of 2016, Sunningh 
that Sarah Ferguson and I 
English county of Berkshire. 
ATTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
iccusations of sexual misconduct 
g nightmare he'd had to endure as a 
7 Epstein finally seemed to be over. 
1h Epstein behind her, Ghislaine 
ve the oceans now, a socialite says 
atter at a private Palm Beach Club. 
rraMar Project, describes itself as 
transformation of the high seas. 
tight million metric tons of plastic 
.umped into the world's oceans 
earlier enterprise, the Seed Media 
7..pstein in 2005 to the tune of two 
awake at night because they're 
he asks in 2014 at a TEDx talk in 
you scared about what could hap-
)out what could you do that would 
ad of troubles? 
behalf of the environment are sin-
ill appears in the society pages. 
.sea Clinton's wedding in Rhine 
list Richard Johnson reports that 
ig in an Iditarod dogsled race in 
274 
Alaska. It's hard to top Ghislaine Maxwell in the globe-trotting 
department, he writes. 
Upon her return, the president of the China Arts Foundation 
International hosts Maxwell at a dinner cooked by the former 
chef for Madame Chiang Kai-shek. 
Sources say that Maxwell still maintains her warm relation-
ship with the Clintons. She was never charged with a crime. And 
Maxwell has repeatedly denied all allegations made by Virginia 
Roberts—and continues to do so today. Through her lawyer, 
Maxwell says she's had no connection to any criminal misconduct 
involving Virginia Roberts (or any other young woman) and Jef-
frey Epstein. She claims that Virginia's story about her experience 
as a sex slave has changed, significantly, over time— that with 
each telling, Virginia adds salacious details and names new public 
figures. Nevertheless, legal troubles for Maxwell recently began. 
In 2015, Virginia Roberts filed a defamation suit against the 
woman she says recruited her to work at Epstein's house on El Brillo 
Way. In January of 2016, Roberts filed additional papers, claiming 
that a defamation. suit filed against Bill Cosby, another alleged sexual 
predator, was directly relevant to her case against Maxwell. In March, 
Maxwell filed an answer in court denying all of Roberts's allegations 
and accusing Roberts of fabricating them for financial gain. 
As of this writing, the suit is ongoing. 
Prince Andrew 
In January of 2016, Sunninghill Park—the twelve-bedroom estate 
that Sarah Ferguson and Prince Andrew once shared in the 
English county of Berkshire—was bulldozed. 
275 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Prince Andrew had long since sold the home, which he and 
Sarah had received as a gift after their 1986 wedding. He got into 
hot water when it was revealed that the buyer, a Kazakh billion-
aire named Timur Kulibayev, had paid three million pounds 
more than the home's asking price. 
For her part, Sarah Ferguson announced that she was mov-
ing into a thirteen-million-pound ski chalet in Switzerland. 
It was a fitting end to the long, sometimes sordid story of the 
prince's marriage. But it was not the end of the scandals that 
seemed always to be swirling around the prince. 
On January 2, 2015, Virginia Roberts's allegations about her 
relationship with the prince—and the photo of him with his 
arm around Roberts's waist—appeared in the press. Prince 
Andrew was forced to cut short a skiing holiday to confer with 
his mother, the queen, and to issue a statement denying Rob-
erts's allegations—a step that was widely seen as being without 
precedent for a member of the royal family. 
That same month, at the World Economic Forum in Davos, 
Switzerland, the prince was again forced to reiterate and to reaf-
firm the repeated denials made by Buckingham Palace that he 
had any sort of sexual relationship with Roberts, who had 
announced in papers filed at the start of the year that Prince 
Andrew has a sexual interest in feet. 
My focus is on my work, Prince Andrew said at the time. 
Asked by a reporter, Will you be making a statement? the 
prince refused to answer. 
A few days later, Virginia Roberts signed a sworn statement in 
which she said, I did have sexual contact with him as I have 
described here—under oath. Given what he knows and has seen, 
I was hoping that he would simply voluntarily tell the truth about 
276 
everything. I hope my ati 
under oath about the corm 
According to several r 
to .the prince, asking him 
Reportedly, Buckingham F 
I knew he was a men 
just called him 'Andy, Ro 
news from Maxwell that I 
day, Epstein told me I was 
me 'to exceed' everything I 
whatever Prince Andrew w 
Signing her name to th( 
under penalty of perjury th 
That spring, Prince An( 
in South Florida ordered tl 
stricken from civil-court n 
ceedings, these lurid detai 
cluded. Once again, Buckin 
prince's involvement in any 
taming to Roberts. But tha. 
BBC program Panorama wa: 
tion into the prince's dealinf 
As of this writing, the in 
Barry Krischer 
I have no intention of beir 
Barry Krischer said in 2016 
asked about Jeffrey Epstein. 
TTERSON 
c'x sold the home, which he and 
their 1986 wedding. He got into 
.hat the buyer, a Kazakh billion-
had paid three million pounds 
.ce. 
n announced that she was mov-
Ld ski chalet in Switzerland. 
sometimes sordid story of the 
Lot the end of the scandals that 
ound the prince. 
[a Roberts's allegations about her 
-and the photo of him with his 
- appeared in the press. Prince 
a skiing holiday to confer with 
issue a statement denying Rob-
vas widely seen as being without 
royal family. 
Vorld Economic Forum in Davos, 
lin forced to reiterate and to reaf-
le by Buckingham Palace that he 
ionship with Roberts, who had 
the start of the year that Prince 
in feet. 
Prince Andrew said at the time. 
• you be making a statement? the 
.oberts signed a sworn statement in 
.exual contact with him as I hay 
Given what he knows and has seen; 
aply voluntarily tell the truth abou 
276 
FILTHY RICH 
everything. I hope my attorneys can interview Prince Andrew 
under oath about the contacts and that he will tell the truth. 
According to several reports, Roberts's lawyers had written 
to .the prince, asking him to respond to her allegations in court. 
Reportedly, Buckingham Palace refused delivery of the letter. 
I knew he was a member of the British royal family, but I 
just called him 'Andy, Roberts had said in her statement. I got 
news from Maxwell that I would be meeting a prince. Later that 
day, Epstein told me I was meeting a 'major prince.' Epstein told 
me 'to exceed' everything I had been taught. He emphasized that 
whatever Prince Andrew wanted, I was to make sure he got. 
Signing her name to the document, Roberts wrote, I declare 
under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct. 
That spring, Prince Andrew got a rare break: a federal judge 
in South Florida ordered that the allegations Roberts made be 
stricken from civil-court records. At this juncture in the pro-
ceedings, these lurid details are unnecessary, the judge con-
cluded. Once again, Buckingham Palace vehemently denied the 
prince's involvement in any activities, sexual or otherwise, per-
taining to Roberts. But that same year, reports leaked that the 
BBC program Panorama was working on an in-depth investiga-
tion into the prince's dealings with Epstein and Roberts. 
As of this writing, the investigation has yet to air. 
Barry Krischer 
I have no intention of being dragged into that conversation, 
Barry Krischer said in 2016 when contacted via telephone and 
asked about Jeffrey Epstein. 
277 
JAMES PATTERSON 
More than a decade had passed since Epstein's case first 
landed on the state attorney's desk. 
The New York Times has called me, said Krischer. The 
British papers. I'm not interested in being pulled into that con-
versation. I know that the police chief didn't think the case was 
handled right, but that's why he's a cop and I'm a prosecutor. 
Krischer, who left the state attorney's office in 2009, is still a 
member of the Criminal Justice Commission in Palm Beach 
County. Since his retirement, he's volunteered one morning a 
week at the office of the state attorney and two mornings a week 
at the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office. 
He still remains active in child welfare issues, working with 
the Florida Department of Children and Families. 
Despite his continued involvement with local law enforce-
ment, he hasn't spoken to Michael Reiter in years. 
Bradley Edwards 
In December of 2009, Jeffrey Epstein filed suit, under Florida's 
RICO act, against Scott Rothstein, the jailed Ponzi king; Bradley 
Edwards, the lawyer who'd worked, briefly, in Rothstein's law 
firm, RRA, and represented several of Epstein's victims; and one 
of those victims, an individual referred to in the lawsuit as 
Upon information and belief, the suit stated, EDWARDS 
knew or should have known that ROTHSTEIN was utilizing 
RRA as a front for the massive Ponzi scheme and/or were selling 
an alleged interest or investment in the Civil Actions (and other 
claims) involving Epstein. The suit also claimed that, By using 
278 
Civil Actions against EP! 
ments regarding same, RC 
investors into ROTHSTEI1 
dollars which, in turn, w 
EPSTEIN for the sole pur 
scheme. 
Moreover, the suit claii 
sex with Epstein; worked a 
prostitute and call girl; h; 
painkillers, Xanax, Ecsta5 
Amendment during her de 
relevant but problem ques. 
claims about two other vic. 
said only good things abo 
FBI in 2007, while being 
story changed dramaticall 
the hands of EDWARDS an 
In a motion for summar 
Edwards denied all of thesi 
frivolous for two separate• 
claimed, Epstein was seel 
asserting his own Fifth An 
covery of relevant facts. (An 
dozens of times, when dep 
On the other hand, Epstein 
by all of the record evidence 
The truth in the record 
support Epstein's claims an 
roborative of Edwards's swor 
stated. 
PERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
;sed since Epstein's case first 
lied me, said Krischer. The 
in being pulled into that con-
chief didn't think the case was 
a cop and I'm a prosecutor. 
torney's office in 2009, is still a 
Commission in Palm Beach 
es volunteered one morning a 
)rney and two mornings a week 
F's Office. 
Id welfare issues, working with 
ren and Families. 
vement with local law enforce-
el Reiter in years. 
.pstein filed suit, under Florida's 
in, the jailed Ponzi king; Bradley 
)rked, briefly, in Rothstein's law 
'eral of Epstein's victims; and one 
al referred to in the lawsuit as 
lief, the suit stated, EDWARDS 
that ROTHSTEIN was utilizing 
Ponzi scheme and/or were selling 
;nt in the Civil Actions (and other 
e suit also claimed that, By using 
278 
Civil Actions against EPSTEIN as 'bait' and fabricating settle-
ments regarding same, ROTHSTEIN and others were able to lure 
investors into ROTHSTEIN'S lair and bilked them of millions of 
dollars which, in turn, was used to fund the litigation against 
EPSTEIN for the sole purpose of continuing the massive Ponzi 
scheme. 
Moreover, the suit claimed, L.M. had testified she never had 
sex with Epstein; worked at numerous strip clubs; is an admitted 
prostitute and call girl; has a history of illegal drug use (pot, 
painkillers, Xanax, Ecstasy); and continually asserted the 5th 
Amendment during her depositions in order to avoid answering 
relevant but problem questions for her. (The suit made similar 
claims about two other victims.) According to the suit, L.M. had 
said only good things about Epstein when interviewed by the 
FBI in 2007, while being represented by another lawyer. Her 
story changed dramatically, the suit claimed, once she was in 
the hands of EDWARDS and RRA. 
In a motion for summary judgment filed by Bradley Edwards, 
Edwards denied all of these allegations, calling Epstein's claims 
frivolous for two separate reasons: On the one hand, Edwards 
claimed, Epstein was seeking damages from Edwards while 
asserting his own Fifth Amendment privilege to block the dis-
covery of relevant facts. (And, in fact, Epstein did plead the Fifth, 
dozens of times, when deposed by the lawyers of his victims.) 
On the other hand, Epstein's claims were directly contradicted 
by all of the record evidence. 
The truth in the record is entirely devoid of any evidence to 
support Epstein's claims and is completely and consistently cor-
roborative of Edwards's sworn assertion of innocence, the motion 
stated. 
279 
i 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Put simply, Epstein has made allegations that have no basis 
in fact. To the contrary, his lawsuit was merely a desperate 
measure by a serial pedophile to prevent being held account-
able for repeatedly sexually abusing minor females. Epstein's 
ulterior motives in filing, and prosecuting this lawsuit are 
blatantly obvious. Epstein's behavior is another clear demon-
stration that he feels he lives above the law and that because 
of his wealth he can manipulate the system and pay for law-
yers to do his dirty work—even to the extent of having them 
assert baseless claims against other members of the Florida 
Bar. Epstein's Complaint against Edwards and LM is nothing 
short of a far-fetched fictional fairy-tale with absolutely no 
evidence whatsoever to support his preposterous claims. It 
was his last ditch effort to escape the public disclosure 
by Edwards and his clients of the nature, extent, and sordid 
details of his life as a serial child molester. Edwards's 
Motion for Summary judgment should be granted without 
equivocation. 
Edwards filed a counterclaim for malicious prosecution. He 
sued me with knowingly made up, falsified facts,' Edwards says. 
And his sole motivation was to extort me into abandoning 
the legitimate cases I was pursuing against him on behalf of 
the victims, including the CVRA suit. He ultimately had to 
dismiss that case, literally on the morning our Summary 
Judgment was to be heard. I then sued him. We were set for 
trial. The judge granted me punitive damages in my claim. 
And then, in a separate case in Florida, one of the appellate 
280 
courts basically abolisl 
in Florida. My case wa! 
our district ruled that 
stand and the tort is ni 
back to the trial court 
the State Supreme Cour 
Sarah Kellen 
She said her name was C 
tion, says a real estate a, 
much later that I realized s 
In April of 2009, that al 
Beach. For Clara, that 111th 
Epstein's big house on El Br: 
as Sarah Kellen. But not suc 
pay four thousand dollars a 
2009, says a Palm Beach re 
market. But she stayed a lot 
round-the-world trip for at h 
Kellen had been a prime 
Prosecutors had considered c 
Marcinkova as potential ci 
charges as part of the plea (I( 
the course of which it was 5 
pleaded to something, he cout 
slapping her, once, on his jet. 
ETERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
111egations that have no basis 
Nsuit was merely a desperate 
o prevent being held account-
using minor females. Epstein's 
prosecuting this lawsuit are 
tavior is another clear demon-
'90ve the law and that because 
e the system and pay for law-
n to the extent of having them 
other members of the Florida 
st Edwards and LM is nothing 
fairy-tale with absolutely no 
irt his preposterous claims. It 
escape the public disclosure 
the nature, extent, and sordid 
al child molester. Edwards's 
nt should be granted without 
a for malicious prosecution. He 
ip, falsified facts,' Edwards says. 
to extort me into abandoning 
•suing against him on behalf of 
RA suit. He ultimately had to 
n the morning our Summary 
hen sued him. We were set for 
'unitive damages in my claim. 
n Florida, one of the appellate 
80 
courts basically abolished the tort of malicious prosecution 
in Florida. My case was dismissed. I then appealed that. And 
our district ruled that my malicious prosecution claim can 
stand and the tort is not abolished in Florida. They sent it 
back to the trial court and Jeffrey Epstein appealed that to 
the State Supreme Court, and that's where that stands. 
Sarah Kellen 
She said her name was Clara something on the rental applica-
tion, says a real estate agent in Palm Beach. It wasn't until 
much later that I realized she was associated with Epstein. 
In April of 2009, that agent rented Clara a bungalow in Palm 
Beach. For Clara, that little home was a step down from Jeffrey 
Epstein's big house on El Brillo Way and from the life she'd known 
as Sarah Kellen. But not such a step down. She signed a lease to 
pay four thousand dollars a month from April 18 through July 18, 
2009, says a Palm Beach resident familiar with the local housing 
market. But she stayed a lot longer. And by the way, she went on a 
round-the-world trip for at least a month while she had the lease. 
Kellen had been a prime suspect in Chief Reiter's investigation. 
Prosecutors had considered charging her, Wendy Dobbs, and Nadia 
Marcinkova as potential coconspirators. They'd avoided those 
charges as part of the plea deal that Epstein had struck—a deal in 
the course of which it was suggested that if Epstein had to have 
pleaded to something, he could have pleaded to striking Kellen—or 
slapping her, once, on his jet. Assault, they'd have called it. 
281 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Kellen might have gone along with that. But in the end she 
didn't need to. Sources say she found another rich man as Epstein 
whiled away his hours in and out of the Palm Beach Stockade. 
She reinvented herself, and when her relationship with the 
wealthy man fell apart, she played the field until she met and 
married a race-car driver named Brian Vickers. Along the way 
she reinvented herself yet again, changing her name to Sarah 
Kensington. 
Nadia Marcinkova 
Nadia Marcinkova changed her surname to Marcinko and, after 
training at a Palm Beach flight school, became a commercial 
pilot and certified flight instructor. Calling herself Gulfstream 
Girl on Facebook, she cultivated her social media presence until 
2013, when the Gulfstream company filed a trademark infringe-
ment lawsuit against her. When the suit was settled out of court, 
in 2014, Marcinko changed Gulfstream to Global. 
As a child, she wrote for the About Me page on her web-
site, Nadia channeled her entrepreneurial spirit by selling invi-
sible pets to neighboring kids. She continued on to manage a 
successful family marketing business and soon she was disco-
vered by a modeling agency and immersed into the marketing 
and advertising world as a spokesperson and international fash-
ion model. 
There is no mention of Jeffrey Epstein. But on her YouTube 
channel, Marcinko appears in the cockpit of a Gulfstream II that 
looks very much like Epstein's Gulfstream, sitting beside a man 
who looks much like Larry Visoski, a pilot for Epstein. 
282 
Marcinko's Manhatte 
Jeffrey Epstein's brother, 
Sarah Kensington us( 
The Girls 
One of the girls who gave 
Angeles and became an 
opera and appearing in 
career in country music. 
Several girls have bee 
other nonviolent crimes. 
One girl is dead— m 
that had nothing to do wi 
One of the girls who ( 
is now a successful real e5 
Mary moved back in 
and attended college for 
along the way. In 2010, 
Mary, who was born in 1 
young for a man of Jeffrey 
ahead of her. 
Wendy Dobbs studied 
tender and waitress. I m 
[utilize] my communicatil 
others, she wrote on Lin 
can make a difference in s( 
encourage others to make 
reaching for the stars then 
ERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
with that. But in the end she 
.d another rich man as Epstein 
of the Palm Beach Stockade. 
n her relationship with the 
d the field until she met and 
Brian Vickers. Along the way 
changing her name to Sarah 
trname to Marcinko and, after 
>chool, became a commercial 
)r. Calling herself Gulfstream 
Ler social media presence until 
my filed a trademark infringe-
le suit was settled out of court, 
>tream to Global. 
• About Me page on her web-
reneurial spirit by selling invi-
he continued on to manage a 
.ness and soon she was disco-
immersed into the marketing 
;person and international [ash-
y Epstein. But on her YouTube 
cockpit of a Gulfstream II that 
ulfstream, sitting beside a man 
ki, a pilot for Epstein. 
Marcinko's Manhattan address belongs to a building where 
Jeffrey Epstein's brother, Mark, owns the majority of apartments. 
Sarah Kensington uses the same address in New York. 
The Girls 
One of the girls who gave Jeffrey Epstein massages moved to Los 
Angeles and became an actress, starring for a time in a soap 
opera and appearing in several films. She is now pursuing a 
career in country music. 
Several girls have been arrested for drugs, prostitution, and 
other nonviolent crimes. 
One girl is dead—murdered by her boyfriend for reasons 
that had nothing to do with Epstein. 
One of the girls who claimed to have been raped by Epstein 
is now a successful real estate broker in South Florida. 
Mary moved back in with her parents, finished high school, 
and attended college for a while. She had her ups and downs 
along the way. In 2010, she was arrested for shoplifting. But 
Mary, who was born in 1990, is still in her midtwenties —still 
young for a man of Jeffrey Epstein's age—with many good years 
ahead of her. 
Wendy Dobbs studied nursing in college and became a bar-
tender and waitress. I want to fill a position in which I can 
[utilize] my communication and customer service skills to help 
others, she wrote on LinkedIn. I feel I am at my best when I 
can make a difference in someone's life. My goal is to inspire and 
encourage others to make positive changes daily. If you are not 
reaching for the stars then your dreams are not big enough. 
283 
JAMES PATTERSON 
The Cops 
Michele Pagan is now a sergeant for the Palm Beach Police 
Department. 
In early 2012, at a reception at Mar-a-Lago, Detective Joe 
Recarey received the first Palm Beach Police Foundation Police 
Officer of the Year award—one of several honors he received in 
the course of his twenty-three-year career in Palm Beach. Two 
years later, he left the department and took a job as director of 
loss prevention for the Gold Coast Beverage company. 
I've been [at the Palm Beach Police Department] longer than 
my children have been alive, he told a reporter for the Palm 
Beach Daily News when he left. I'm going to miss a majority of 
the people I've worked with, and, obviously, I'm going to miss 
the work. This is my extended family. Like many families, you 
have disagreements with some family members. But you over-
look that, and you work together and you're a team. I'm going to 
look back and miss a lot of the people I've worked with. 
Palm Beach police chief Michael Reiter left the department in 
2008 after twenty-eight years on the job. He now runs his own 
security company in Palm Beach. 
Jean-Luc Brunel 
In January of 2015, Jean-Luc Brunel sued his old friend Jeffrey 
Epstein, claiming that Epstein's fall from grace had cost him mil-
lions of dollars in business and caused him severe emotional stress. 
The lawsuit claimed, Plaintiff Brunel is emotionally destroyed 
284 
as a result of Epstein's actic 
ness. He has been on medic 
It continues: Defendar 
distress on Plaintiff Brun( 
under-aged girls, which wa 
gal conduct was extreme ar 
The suit went on to qu 
modeling scout had gone ii 
sense of depression related 
in his modeling agency as a 
business. Brunel had go 
Rivotril— as a result. 
The fashion world had fr. 
ship with Jeffrey Epstein had 
ble for him to find the fresh 
Brunel acknowledged E 
own involvement. Epsteir 
and extreme; they involved 
aged girls while the girls w 
of the girls with a finger or ( 
When the Daily Beast r( 
Brunel for a comment, the v 
is not in town; he's in South 
Brunel's agency, MC2, is 
Jeffrey Epstein 
As of this writing, Jeffrey El 
women at his Manhattan tov 
ERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
t for the Palm Beach Police 
at Mar-a-Lago, Detective Joe 
:ach Police Foundation Police 
several honors he received in 
ir career in Palm Beach. Two 
• and took a job as director of 
Beverage company. 
olice Department] longer than 
: told a reporter for the Palm 
m going to miss a majority of 
, obviously, I'm going to miss 
mily. Like many families, you 
•mily members. But you over-
Ind you're a team. I'm going to 
pie I've worked with. 
el Reiter left the department in 
the job. He now runs his own 
nel sued his old friend Jeffrey 
1 from grace had cost him mil-
ml him severe emotional stress. 
Brunel is emotionally destroyed 
as a result of Epstein's actions and the resulting effects on his busi-
ness. He has been on medications to deal with the effects of this. 
It continues: Defendant Epstein recklessly inflicted emotional 
distress on Plaintiff Brunel by engaging in illegal conduct with 
under-aged girls, which was falsely linked to Plaintiff.... This ille-
gal conduct was extreme and outrageous by any standard. 
The suit went on to quote Bruners doctor, who said that the 
modeling scout had gone into psychotherapy due to a subjective 
sense of depression related to what he believes is a loss of business 
in his modeling agency as a result of slander published against his 
business. Brunel had gone on prescription drugs— Prozac, 
Rivotril— as a result. 
The fashion world had frozen him out, he said, after his relation-
ship with Jeffrey Epstein had become public. It had become impossi-
ble for him to find the fresh faces he needed for his agency, MC2. 
Brunel acknowledged Epstein's alleged crimes but denied his 
own involvement. Epstein's illegal activities were outrageous 
and extreme; they involved receiving massages from the under-
aged girls while the girls were nude or nearly nude; penetration 
of the girls with a finger or object; or full intercourse. 
When the Daily Beast reported the story and reached out to 
Brunel for a comment, the website's reporter was told, Jean-Luc 
is not in town; he's in South America. 
Bruners agency, MC2, is still in business. 
Jeffrey Epstein 
As of this writing, Jeffrey Epstein continues to entertain young 
women at his Manhattan town house. 
285 
EPILOGUE . 
When John Connolly, Tim Malloy, and I began work on 
this book, I had hoped to interview Jeffrey Epstein 
myself: to look directly into the eyes of the man we'd 
be writing about. Epstein declined to sit for an interview. Many 
of his friends and associates did speak with us on the condition 
that they not be quoted. Several of them still liked Epstein and 
made a point of telling us what a loyal friend he was—although, 
like Icarus, he seemed to have a fatal flaw. 
If Epstein had agreed to an interview, these are the questions 
I would have asked him: 
• You pleaded guilty to a single felony count of soliciting 
prostitution from a minor. Do you believe in your heart 
that you were guilty? 
• In 2011 you told the New York Post, I'm not a sexual 
predator, I'm an 'offender.' It's the difference between a 
murderer and a person who steals a bagel. Do you 
stand by that statement today? 
286 
• Do you feel you w 
tice system? 
• What effect did yo 
• Do you believe th; 
the women— esp 
been involved wit] 
• Are you still in tot 
• Are you in touch v 
• You've spent time 
Trump. How woul 
• Several people havi 
Is that a fair charac 
• I've heard that Les 
of you from his ho. 
have you reconcile, 
• Did the thirteen mi 
any way? 
• After your stay in 
the company of ver 
• You were ordered 1 
as part of your s( 
today? 
• Do you regard you' 
if so, have you been 
• What is your greate 
• What do you look f( 
• Last question. How 
FILTHY RICH 
EPILOGUE 
n Malloy, and I began work on 
d to interview Jeffrey Epstein 
/ into the eyes of the man we'd 
:d to sit for an interview. Many 
speak with us on the condition 
of them still liked Epstein and 
Loyal friend he was—although, 
atal flaw. 
terview, these are the questions 
;le felony count of soliciting 
Do you believe in your heart 
York Post, I'm not a sexual 
ft's the difference between a 
ho steals a bagel. Do you 
.ay? 
6 
• Do you feel you were treated fairly by the criminal jus-
tice system? 
• What effect did your conviction have on your business? 
• Do you believe that you've done psychological harm to 
the women—especially the underage girls—you've 
been involved with? 
• Are you still in touch with Ghislaine Maxwell? 
• Are you in touch with Prince Andrew? 
• You've spent time with Bill Clinton as well as Donald 
Trump. How would you characterize the two men? 
• Several people have described you as a very loyal friend. 
Is that a fair characterization? 
• I've heard that Leslie Wexner removed all photographs 
• of you from his home. Given how close you once were, 
have you reconciled or tried to repair the relationship? 
• Did the thirteen months you spent in jail change you in 
any way? 
• After your stay in prison, have you continued to seek 
pany of very underage women 
• You were ordered to undergo psychological treatment 
as part of your sentence. Are you under treatment 
today? 
• Do you regard yourself as having a sex addiction, and, 
if so, have you been treated for it? 
• What is your greatest regret? 
• What do you look for in a woman? 
• Last question. How well do you sleep at night? 
ABOUT THE AUTHORS 
James Patterson received the Literarian Award for Outstand-
ing Service to the American Literary Community at the 2015 
National Book Awards ceremony. He holds the Guinness World 
Record for the most number one New York Times bestsellers, and 
his books have sold more than 325 million copies worldwide. 
John Connolly has been an investigative reporter for twenty-five 
years, the last twelve of them with Vanity Fair. He has written 
scores of nonfiction pieces for numerous national magazines. ' 
Tim Malloy is a thirty-year veteran of print and television jour-
nalism. He has won eight Emmys as an investigative reporter, 
documentary maker, and war correspondent. He appears in 
print, on the Web, and on TV as a political analyst. 
4,74, 
9.41.6 
I HAD BEEN HEARING HAIR-RAISING STORIES 
aboutJefftey Epstein for a couple qfyears. Our interests 
could not have been more different, but Palm Beach, 
where we both live, is small and tightly knit, and we 
knew some of the same people. So I had followed 
Epstein's case in the media and talked about it over 
dinners with friends. I wondered why it had taken 
so long for the Palm Beach police to catch up with 
Epstein. And, once they did, why he had served so 
little jail time. Those were the obvious questions, but 
there were others: How had Epstein made his money, 
possibly billions? No one seemed to know. 
Epstein had poweifitl friends. Were  his connec-
tions the reason that Epstein was now a free man? 
I wanted to know. 
egavaa,-twaxearAtztr,waxatatats-.%.wexiaektlx,.z.va 
.1.10'sdtSR1 
• .1 *Tr C. • 
aelthri 
r.? 
— 
•Cktsi. 
1,0 
ISBN 978-0-316-27405-0 
9 780316 274050 
..et.A3V1%.1-7 
tA,Lt.tp-
5 2 800 > 
*t 
r 
AP! ( 
4-4 
otw<' 9R:1m 
ta*, 
.r 
-VA IA. • Sive. 
10% rstiVir*0 
.413,706%94facr 
WW*CtA\ 
• •=:=4W09. • 
.4. - d'.41& 
ilt.,..7-• . . 1.;1•0 
.stl. •-6•••.. • 001,....• 0- •,.. 
.• 5,6 Ar .i..t.s.0 
x?.v..c.. 
1•IgtIger 
cliai,tk.-
--. 
••: ,. 
ak 
(c.,...-4-,.1...0,0twtikt, . %.....;:10.4p,.!,-(4, • 
.\--i:ral: .....t...n-A.,66o Triv:A A. 4109aSki 
/=;.: 'It '1'1. tti• Aft- .-.4'0 
\t0,.. `rittea tliCi 
0 
....a. 
...i..,,,. . 
f...4o.p.o 
ctiv-e..-q 
....L% .4.41., 
..1., .. 
c; c: ft ••;,;,1 
Rrita;Zt' . 
*ilASIO 
,t49:19. 
g;14. 
0,1 
