LPF&S or an

L

he
U

Cor
pro

=

a

| Dtch Shell.
of its affiliates is wil

he Bank’s sales and

Other Important Disclosures

Prices are indicative and for information purposes only. Except as otherwise stated in the report, for the purpose of any recommendation in relation to: (i) an equity security, the price
referenced is the publicly traded price of the security as of close of business on the day prior to the date of the report or, if the report is published during intraday trading, the price referenced is
indicative of the traded price as of the date and time of the report; or (ii) adebt security (including equity preferred and CDS), prices are indicative as of the date and time of the report and are
rom various sources including Bank of America Merrill Lynch trading desks.

filiate expects to receive or intends to seek compensation for investment banking services from
Telekom, Enel SpA, Iberdrola, Royal Dtch Shell.
PF&S together with its affiliates beneficially owns one percent or more of the common stock of this issuer. If t
ownership posi
report: Roya
PF&S or one
The issuer is or was, within the last
Royal Dtch Shell.
BofA Merrill Lyn
poration, inc!
itability of tl

ing to sell to, or buy from, clients the common equity of the issuer ona princi
2 months, a securities business client (non-investment banking) of MLPF&S and/or one or more of its affiliates: Deutsche Telekom, Enel SpA, lberdrola,

his issuer or an affiliate of the issuer within the next three months: Deutsche

his report was issued on or after the 9th day of the month, it reflects the

ion on the last day of the previous month. Reports issued before the 9th day of amonth reflect the ownership position at the end of the second month preceding the date of

pal basis: Deutsche Telekom.

ch Research Personnel (including the analyst(s) responsible for this report) receive compensation based upon, among other factors, the overall profitability of Bank of America
uding profits derived from investment banking. The analyst(s) responsible for this report may also receive compensation based upon, among other factors, the overall
rading businesses relating to the class of securities or financial instruments for which such analyst is responsible.

The date and time of completion of the production of any recommendation in this report shall be the date and time of dissemination of this report as recorded in the report timestamp.

Officers of MLPF&S or one or more o
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research
BofA Merrill Lynch includes Merri

Merrill Lynch

Global Research.

its affiliates (other than research analysts) may have a financial interest in securities of the issuer(s) or in related investments.

policies relating to conflicts of interest are described at http://go.bofa.com/coi.

| Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (‘MLPF&S’) and its affiliates. Investors should contact their BofA Merrill Lynch representative or
Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management financial advisor if they have questions concerning this report. BofA Merrill Lynch and Merrill Lynch are each global brands for BofA

Information relating to Non-US affiliates of BofA Merrill Lynch and Distribution of Affiliate Research Reports:
ure distribute, research reports 0

South Africa (
PRA); Merrill
Pacific) Limite

japan): Merri

regulated by

DIFC): Merril
Comisidn Naci

FCA and the
retail clients

LPF&S distributes, or may in
Pty) Ltd., regulated by The Financial Service Board; MLI (U
Lynch (Australia):
d, regulated by th
Singapore (MAS); Merrill Lynch
CV, Casa de Bolsa, regulated by

Financial Supervisory Service;
he Securities and

onal del Mercado De
ertill Lynch Kingdom of Saudi Ara
This research report: has been approved

imited regula

by HKSFC is

Singapore)
064 874 53

),

‘Wholesale’ clients as d
horised Deposit-Ta
report in Brazil and its
pared and issued by

Aut

pre

Frankfurt Branch (BA\
This research report has been prepai
responsibility for research reports o
security discussed in t

respect of any

instruments and implemen

his research report shou
with, this research report.
General Investment Related Disclosures:
Taiwan Readers: Neither

expressed constitutes an of!
options, futures, warrants, a
inancial situation and the p

he fu

erril

Lynch Equities (Australia) Limite

e Hong Kong Securities and Fu
Canada}: Merrill Lynch Canada
he Comisi6n Nacional Bancaria

ures Co
ne, regu
y de Va

Lynch Japan Securities Co,, Ltd, regulated by the Financi

Exc

Va

jon by the FCA and PI

Registration

AFS License 412901 (B,

ocal distribu
errill Lynch
Frankfurt)

L

ne
matters re

report sho!

ld contact

ea

los F 06872E

A

efined by s.761G of the Cor
ing Institution under the Banking Act 1959 nor regu
ion is by Merri
DIFC) are done so in accordance wit
distributes this report i
red and issued

its non-US aff
uld do so through MLPI

ated
or publicatio

the FCA and the PRA) by
RA - details about
Lynch (Japan), a registered securities dea
issued and distributed in Tai
investors and/or accredited investors
Company

hee
er under the
wan by Merri
ch as defi

A Australia) and

poration

ILynch

by MLP
iliates d

hority;

Lynch International (DIFC Branch), regulated by t
ores; Merrill Lynch (Brazi
bia Company, regu
n and is d
PRA) by MLI (UK) and Bank of America Merrill Lynch Intern
(as defined in the rules o

Financial
| Lynch (Ti
ned under the Financia
and 198602883D respec

Lynch

}: Bank
he Capi

by

Merrill

xtent of our

alwan)

erril
Ss Ac

Lynch

Brazil} in ac

errill Lynch International Bank Limited

errill Lynch (Russia}: O00
he Dubai

istributed in the Uni

nstruments

2001. Wi

n Germany and
F&S and/or one or more o
istributed to
F&S and not such

K): Merrill Lynch In
d, regulated by the A
mmission (HKSFC);
ated by the Investm
ores; Merrill Lynch
al Services Agency;

errill Lynch (Taiwan): Merrill Lynch Securities (Taiwan) Ltd., regul
hange Board of India; Merri
Lynch Israel Limited, regulated by Israel Securities Aut!

ndonesia): PT Merril

Financial Services A
of America Merrill
al Market Authori
ed K
ational Limited, w
Lynch Interna
regulation by
and Excl
- is issued and cist
Advisers Regu
ively). MLIBL|
ies (Austral
he exception o
lated by
cordance witha
h

y.

the

rib
ati

Equi
h

he requiremen
regulated
its nol
F&S clients int
foreign aft

i}

LPI

the following non-US af
ernati

Merri

Argent

errill

Oo
ustral
I Lyn
ndus

nal,

ent |

erril
jated

I Lyne

uthority

Lynch Banco Multip

ingdom (UK
hich are authorized
tional Bank Limi
FCA and PRA are availab
hange Act in Japa

uted in In
ons) by

Band Merrill Lynch (S
ia) Limited (ABN 65 006 276 795), AFS License 235132 (MLEA) distribu
BANA Australia, nei
he Australian Prudential Regulation Authority.

pplicable regulations. Merrill Lynch (DIFC) is au
s of the DFSA conduct of business rules. Bank of America Merri
by BaFin.

n-US affil
he US. An

iliates. Hong Kong recipients of this research report should contact
ating to dealing in securities or provision of specific advice on securities or any other matters arising from, or in connection with,

Merchant Ban

he information nor any opinion expressed herein constitutes an offer or a solicitat
his report may be used or reproduced or quoted in any manner whatsoever in Taiwan by the press or any 0
This research report provides general information only, and has been prepared for, and is intended for general distri
er or an invitation to make an offer, to buy or sell any securities or other financial instru
nd contracts for differences). This report is not intended to provide personal investmen
articular needs of, and is not directed to, any specific person(s). This report and i
advice for purposes of ERISA, the US tax code, the Investment Advisers Act or otherwise. Investors should seek fina
ing investment strategies discussed or recommended in this report and should unders

iates in the
ian Securities and Investments Commission; Merrill Lynch (Hong Kong): Merri
na):
Lynch (Seou

h Sekuritas
Lynch Securiti

) and/or Merrill

US (short name: legal name, regulator): Merrill Lynch (South Africa): Merrill Lynch

d by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the Prudential Regulation Authority
| Lynch (Asia

ch (Singapore): Merrill Lynch (Singapore) Pte Ltd, regulated by the Monetary Authority of
try Regulatory Organization of Canada; Merrill Lynch (Mexico): Merrill Lynch Mexico, SA de
Merrill Lynch Argentina SA, regulated by Comisién Nacional de Valores; Merrill Lynch

)}: Merrill Lynch International Incorporated (Seoul Branch} regulated by the
ecurities and Futures Bureau; DSP Merrill Lynch (India): DSP Merrill Lynch Limited,
ndonesia, regulated by Otoritas Jasa Keuangan (OJK); Merrill Lynch (Israel): Merrill
es, Moscow, regulated by the Central Bank of the Russian Federation; Merrill Lynch
errill Lynch (Spain): Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Espana, S.A.S.V., regulated by

jo SA, regulated by Comissdo de Valores Mobiliarios; Merrill Lynch KSA Company,

regulate

by the S

DFSA):

} to professional clients and eligible counterparties (as each is defined in the rules of the
by the PRA and regulated by the FCA and the PRA, and is distributed in the UK to
ed, London Branch, which is authorized by the Central Bank of Ireland and subject to
e from us on request; has been considered and distributed in Japan by Merrill
and distributed in Hong Kong by Merrill Lynch (Hong Kong) which is regulated

errill Lynch (India); and is issued and distributed in Singapore to institutional
International Bank Limited (Merchant Bank) (MLIBLMB) and Merrill Lynch
ingapore) are regulated by MAS. Bank of America N.A,, Australian Branch (ARBN
e this report in Australia only to
affiliates involved in preparing this research report is an
pproval is required for publication or distribution of this
rized and regulated by the DFSA. Research reports
Lynch International Limited,

n; is issued
dia by DSP
errill Lynch

its
loa
ho

her MLEA nor any o

iates. MLPF&S is the distributor of this research repor
y US person recelving this research report and wishing

in the US and accepts ful
o effect any transaction in any
errill Lynch (Asia Pacific) Limited in
his report. Singapore recipients of
ers arising from, or in connection

Lynch (Singapore) Pte Ltd in respect of any mat

ion of an offer to transact in any securities or o
her person without the express written consent of BofA Merrill Lynch.
bution to, BofA Merrill Lynch clients. Neither the information nor any opinion
ment or any derivative related to such securities or instruments (e.g.,

advice and it does not take into account the specific investment objectives,
'§ content do not constitute, and should not be considered to constitute, investment
ncial advice regarding the appropriateness of investing in financial
and that statements regarding future prospects may not be realized. Any

her financial instrument. No part of

decision to purchase or subscribe for securities in any offering must be based solely on existing public information on such security or the information in the prospectus or other offering

document issued in connec

ion with such offering, and not on this report.
Securities and other financial instruments discussed in this report, or recommended, offered or sold by Merrill Lyne

h, are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and are not

deposits or other obligations of any insured depository institution (including, Bank of America, N.A.). Investments in general and, derivatives, in particular, involve numerous risks, including,
among others, market risk, counterparty default risk and liquidity risk. No security, financial instrument or derivative is suitable for all investors. In some cases, securities and other financial

instruments may be difficul

to value or sell and reliable information about the value or risks related to the security or financial instrument may be difficult to obtain. Investors should note that

income from such securities and other financial instruments, if any, may fluctuate and that price or value of such securities and instruments may rise or fall and, in some cases, investors may

Bankof America
Merrill Lynch

Global Equity Volatility Insights |O6 June 2017 35

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023609
