104

This section intends to highlight three main developments. First, China is supporting

an increasing number of local chambers of commerce in the United States with direct

ties to CCP officials. Second, as Chinese companies have become more global, they

have also grown more sophisticated in their efforts to socialize and localize

themselves in their new American communities, but also acquire political influence

in the United States. Finally, China increased its efforts to pressure, co-opt and sometimes
even coerce foreign corporations with the aim of influencing politics in their home
countries.

The Use of Business-Related United Front Organizations

Consistent with the practice of other nations, major Chinese firms operating in America

are represented by a chamber of commerce network. Analysis detailed below suggests

that China also operates an extensive list of United Front organizations purporting to

be regional chambers of commerce. China’s public-facing chamber in the United States

is known as the China General Chamber of Commerce (CGCC), which was founded in
2005. It is headquartered in New York with five regional operations in Chicago, Houston,
Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Washington, DC. Its website states that it has 1,500 member
companies, both Chinese and non-Chinese. The organization’s chair is Bank of China USA
president and CEO Xu Chen. Its website lists more than sixty individuals, many from state-
owned companies, in governance roles; its website lists a staff of nine.

Consistent with business organizations of other countries, the CGCC engages in a mix

of political engagement with its host and home countries (e.g., testifying at the US
International Trade Commission® and hosting officials from the Chinese Ministry of
Commerce’); informational activities for its members (e.g., a lunch-and-learn on labor

and safety issues in the United States);’ and promotional activities (e.g., dinner galas and
charity events). The CGCC is actively engaged with senior American political and business
leaders. In July 2017, it hosted a welcome luncheon at the National Governors Association
meeting in Rhode Island, at which the governors of Maryland, Kentucky, Alaska, Arizona,
Louisiana, and Rhode Island attended. In September 2017, the group organized the visit of
the governors of Alaska and Missouri to China.®

Inconsistent with the practice of other countries, China also oversees an extensive network
of local chambers of commerce. This raises a question of their possible ties to the Chinese
party-state, and whether these chambers may be misrepresenting themselves as local
concerns when they are instead activated by, or in liaison with, the Chinese government.
Research for this project has identified thirty-one business-focused organizations operating
in the United States that are explicitly associated with or whose profiles and activities

are highly suggestive of involvement with United Front work.’ Most of these groups are
concentrated in Greater Los Angeles and New York City, two principal communities of the
Chinese diaspora. They are typically organized by hometown province of origin. This count

Corporations

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020563
