into line his daughter and her husband, Hicks, and Raffel. Kasowitz—the lawyer whose
specific job was to keep Trump at arm’s length from Russian-related matters—was kept
on hold on the phone for an hour and then not put through. The president insisted that the
meeting in Trump Tower was purely and simply about Russian adoption policy. That’s
what was discussed, period. Period. Even though it was likely, if not certain, that the Zimes
had the incriminating email chain—in fact, it was quite possible that Jared and Ivanka and
the lawyers knew the Times had this email chain—the president ordered that no one should
let on to the more problematic discussion about Hillary Clinton.

It was a real-time example of denial and cover-up. The president believed,
belligerently, what he believed. Reality was what he was convinced it was—or should be.
Hence the official story: there was a brief courtesy meeting in Trump Tower about
adoption policy, to no result, attended by senior aides and unaffiliated Russian nationals.
The crafting of this manufactured tale was a rogue operation by rookies—always the two
most combustible elements of a cover-up.

In Washington, Kasowitz and the legal team’s spokesperson, Mark Corallo, weren’t
informed of either the Zimes article or the plan for how to respond to it until Don Jr.’s
initial statement went out just before the story broke that Saturday.

Over the course of next seventy-two hours or so, the senior staff found itself wholly
separate from—and, once again, looking on in astonishment at—the actions of the
president’s innermost circle of aides. In this, the relationship of the president and Hope
Hicks, long tolerated as a quaint bond between the older man and a trustworthy young
woman, began to be seen as anomalous and alarming. Completely devoted to
accommodating him, she, his media facilitator, was the ultimate facilitator of unmediated
behavior. His impulses and thoughts—unedited, unreviewed, unchallenged—not only
passed through him, but, via Hicks, traveled out into the world without any other White
House arbitration.

“The problem isn’t Twitter, it’s Hope,” observed one communication staffer.

On July 9, a day after publishing its first story, the Zimes noted that the Trump Tower
meeting was specifically called to discuss the Russian offer of damaging material about
Clinton. The next day, as the Zimes prepared to publish the full email chain, Don Jr.
hurriedly dumped it himself. There followed an almost daily count of new figures—all, in
their own way, peculiar and unsettling—who emerged as participants in the meeting.

But the revelation of the Trump Tower meeting had another, perhaps even larger
dimension. It marked the collapse of the president’s legal strategy: the demise of Steve
Bannon’s Clinton-emulating firewall around the president.

The lawyers, in disgust and alarm, saw, in effect, each principal becoming a witness to
another principal’s potential misdeeds—all conspiring with one another to get their stories
straight. The client and his family were panicking and running their own defense. Short-

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020080
