12/8/2015

‘The first few months after | married Robert were the worst,’ she says. ‘I couldn't bring myself to tell
him much. No man wants to know his wife has been traded out.

‘l felt very alone. | was having panic attacks and seeing a psychiatrist and was on anti-depressants.

’ Virginia was beginning to put her Epstein days behind her when, three years ago, she was phoned
by the FBI.

‘They said they had found photos of me at Jeffrey's Palm Beach house,’ she says. ‘[Epstein had]
hidden cameras watching me the entire time even when | was in the bathroom. | was so
embarrassed.

‘| told the FBI that my true purpose was sexual. They told me everything he did was illegal because |

was under age.’ (The age of consent in Florida is 18).

‘They said that if it had to go to trial, they'd need me because I'd lived with him and that made me a
key witness. | was very afraid, because he had so much power, but eventually | agreed to testify.

| was glad he’d finally been found out. He shouldn’t be hurting other girls. Following Epstein’s arrest,
investigators are believed to have found a list of men’s names on his computer and asked him
whether they had been ‘treated’ to sexual encounters with his menage of minors.

‘He took the Fifth Amendment, refusing to answer, indicating that if he were to answer the question,
it could be incriminating,’ a source told The Mail on Sunday.

Epstein struck a deal resulting in what commentators characterised as a ‘slap on the wrist’ for him,
and ended up serving 13 months of his sentence, much of it in a liberal work-release programme
Lawyer Brad Edwards, who represented several of Epstein’s victims, said: ‘Rather than punish him
the way they would an average Joe, they sent a clear message that with enough money and power
and influence, the system can be bought.’

Virginia was spared her the humiliation of having to go before a jury, and has kept her feelings
bottled up until last weekend’s photograph of Andrew with Epstein triggered distressing memories.

Virginia says: ‘| am appalled. To me, it’s saying, “We are above the law.” But Jeffrey is a monster.’

Last night, neither Epstein, Ghislaine Maxwell nor Prince Andrew would comment on Virginia’s story.

Advertisement

Share or comment on this article

Sponsored Links by Taboola

FROM THE WEB

Miley Cyrus Just Revealed This Dog Lives Longer Than

Her L.A. Mansion And It's Any Other Breed
GORGEOUS P ds

21 Things You Probably
Didn't Know About ‘Criminal
Minds' Matthew Gray Gubler

i

Prince Andrew and girl, 17, who sex offender friend flew to Britain to meet him | Daily Mail Online

> wall for shoot in eg =

picturesque Mykonos  =

Actress'new photoshoot #4/. j}- 2 =o
oy! oe 4

le. “i:

>'lam a lucky, lucky
girl! Grey's Anatomy's
Jessica Capshaw, 39,
announces she is
pregnant with her fourth
child

She plays Dr. Robbins

> That's awkward! Pete
Wentz jets out of Los
Angeles after Kim
Kardashian and Kanye
West copy his baby
Saint's unusual name
Name was criticized

» Kim Kardashian and
Kanye West's baby son
Saint 'will NOT appear
on Keeping Up With The
Kardashians’

North was kept off the
show for her first year too

> Nicky Hilton and
Tommy Hilfiger's wife
Dee Ocleppo wear the
SAME dress at
Valentino event... and
style out fashion faux
pas with a frosty kiss

> Former Mousketeer
and American Idol
contestant Marque
Lynche found dead at 34
Discovered in his New
York City apartment by
his roommate

> Moving in with
Bradley? Irina Shayk
puts her $2.65M two-
bedroom NYC condo up
for sale as romance
heats up

Been dating since spring

» Risque Jenna Dewan
Tatum flashes her sexy
lingerie in a sheer
corset-style gown as
she joins husband
Channing at The Hateful
Eight premiere

» White hot mama!
Pregnant Chrissy
Teigen gives the cold
shoulder to maternity =
wear and heats things q
up in a ultra-short dress
Expecting first child

> Dancing With The

Stars champion Derek
Hough shows off his buff
body by going shirtless
on the beach as he
takes a well-earned
break in Hawaii

> Make-up free Rumer
Willis hauls luggage out
of LAX following her
five-show stint with
Sway: A Dance Trilogy
Daughter of Demi Moore
and Bruce Willis

‘Seems I'm an absolute
pleasure to shoot’: Amy
Schumer shares sexy
behind-the-scenes look
at her Pirelli Calendar
photo session

She's in the 43rd edition

http:/Awww.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-1361039/Prince-Andrew-girl- 17-sex-offender-friend-flew-Britain-meet-him.htm|

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015649

7/29
