aged 15. Ms Maxwell led [jiifupstairs on her first visit to him at his Palm Beach house. Mr Epstein was
naked on massage table.
Ms Maxwell initiated a bisexual encounter during which Ms Maxwell rubbed her own breasts on Mr Epstein

and directed [J to copy her.
Please respond to these allegations and all others in the original Jane Doe 102 complaint.

2. Ms Maxwell took part in numerous other sexual encounters involving her assist ii

and Mr Epstein.

3. Ms Maxwell kept sex toys and costumes in the Palm Beach mansion and dressed iJ prior to sex
sessions with Mr Epstein. S Maxwell herself wore black vinyl during sex sessions with Mr Epstein.

4. EE was paid between US $200 and $ 5000 US sex, depending on whether it involved travel and other
men.

sO was required to have sex with friends of Ms Maxwell and Mr Epstein, including Glenn Dubin, Les
Wexner, Ehud Barak, former Senator George Mitchell and Stephen Kosslyn.

6. Ms Maxwell introduced to Prince Andrew in 2001 at Ms Maxwell's London house where [ag
had sex with him. subsequently was directed to meet him at Mr Epstein's New York house where Ms
Maxwell directed to sit on Andrew's knee with Johanna Sjoberg. Andrew groped both girls. Ms
Maxwell directed after this to have sex with Andrew.

Ms Maxwell and Mr Epstein subsequently travelled with IEEE to Little St James where she was directed
to stage an orgy for Andrew and Mr Epstein during which she performed oral sex on
them.

Lm was paid extra by Mr Epstein or his employees for these sexual encounters.
8. Ms Maxwell knew [age and laughed about it when she introduced her to Andrew.
9. Ms Maxwell and Mr Epstein tried to persuade [to bear his child.

10. After sexual encounters with male friends of Mr Epstein and/or Ms Maxwell, Ms Maxwell and Mr Epstein
would ask JJ explicit questions about what went on.

11. Mr Epstein’s residences in Florida and New York had surveillance cameras that taped the sex sessions and
taped HM even in the bathroom.

12. Ms Maxwell and Mr Epstein arranged for Ehud Barak to have sex with several girls, often at Mr Epstein's
Palm Beach house.

13. Ms Maxwell piloted President Bill Clinton in a helicopter to a dinner on Little St James where two brunettes
Ms Maxwell, [| and Mr Epstein were at the table.

14. Mr Epstein bought Ms Maxwell the helicopter, homes in New York and London and a Mercedes.

------ End of Forwarded Message

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023033
