ceasefire that many view as a victory for the Islamist group, Hamas Prime
Minister Ismail Haniyeh finds his popularity having soared. Forty-eight
percent of Palestinians say that they would rather pick Hantyeh as
Palestine’s next president instead of Abbas, who has struggled to secure
the freedom of movement and self-determination that so many
Palestinians once expected from his government.

The JMCC issued similar findings. By far the most disturbing figure in the
poll is the exponential rise in support among the Palestinian public for
armed operations against Israel—S0.9 percent now view attacking Israeli
positions in the current climate as a credible way to express their
grievances and pressure the Israeli government to compromise. This is a
20-percent increase from the previous year.

The numbers can perhaps best be summarized by Ali Najjar, an 18-year-
old Palestinian who lives in a refugee camp. “In my view,” he said, “what
was taken by force will only be returned by force. Twenty years after
Oslo, we haven’t gained one inch of Palestine.”

Many young Palestinians agree. Indeed, the words summarize the how
dire the situation has become for an entire generation of Palestinians, most
of whom are too young to remember the signing of the Oslo Accords in
1993. Most have not seen any benefit from peace agreements or
negotiations, and all of them have grown tired of the settlement
construction in the West Bank, the killing of Palestinian civilians, and the
internal fighting among Palestinian politicians that never seems to
dissipate.

The Corrosive Status Quo

One cannot blame Palestinian civilians for feeling this way. The previous
year was a terrible one for Abbas and his government. Settlement tenders
and approvals in the West Bank rose to such an extent that the anti-
settlement organization Peace Now named 2012 “the year of the
settlement,” with the Ministry of Defense authorizing an additional 6,000
housing units and Netanyahu pushing for the construction of 11,000
homes in the month of December alone.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018221
