advance, whether it is fingerprint recognition on your phone or some new auto-
translation app, a set of careful, deterministic values and calculations linger. One
feature that defines the New Caste is unadulterated, unquestioned faith in the
continued network revolution, and that the values that underlie the best programs
may be the values that should gird the world that depends on that same code. The
danger here is clear enough. “Respect, understanding and love,” Weizenbaum wrote
as he considered ELIZA’s effects, “are not technical problems.”

The biggest of the platforms controlled by the New Caste herd together, remember,
billions of people, bind them with ever thickening cords. The revealing tics of every
movement in the virtual and every step or drive in the real world are marked down,
remembered and scored. To operate the strategic levers of such a force is, in all
reality, no less significant than leading a nation. The distinction between a CEO ofa
major connected firm and a head of state lies less in the depth and efficacy of their
influence than in the questions of how they got such power, and how they might use
it. The New Caste has an admirable conviction near to faith that their products are
truly universal. They are absolute technological determinists. Watching their
services and influence expand often has that strange aura of the irresistible force
taking on an immovable object. They believe that their black boxes will bulldoze
concerns of politics or history. And soon.

Historical ambition of this scale, the sort that touches really countless lives, has
always blended a commercial and technical mastery -- the moves of the East India
Company turned as much on better ship design, maps and navigation as on imperial
objectives. But the aim of the New Caste is the same as it was for those three older
castes - the merchants, soldiers and sages: To put the tools they’ve mastered and
built in the service of still more dominance. The commercial calculations of the most
powerful figures of the New Caste carry a sense of seeing many moves ahead, a very
real kind of chess. Their billion dollar acquisitions, investment in moon-shot R&D
ideas, the hundred million dollar payouts for great engineers — all of these mark the
astonishing scale of what they have in mind: To have and control ever more
essential cores of power. Are they seduced by having a billion users? Sure, but not
because of the billion users, but rather because of the seductive allure of the black
box, of what it means to control such a central point of connection.

4,

I remember sitting with a member of the New Caste the week the first batch of
mimeographed and laser-scanned Snowden papers were released, as we both
discovered that everyone we knew was devouring the documents. Like a novel.
People were texting one another - “Have you seen this?!” - and you couldn’t get
through a dinner without a debate over the technical merits of what was on display.
The Snowden files were fascinating to the New Caste in a way few others might
understand, in the way a room of ballplayers might examine Ted Williams’s swing
mechanics. Let me try to explain it this way: When I was younger, people called our
generation — those of us born between 1965 and 1980 more or less - a generation of
slackers. Generation X. Generation Nothing. There was an argument to be had about

123

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018355
