a

POLLING |

Election results STATION

With Republicans set to control the White House, Senate, and House
of Representatives for the session of Congress beginning in January
2017, the lame-duck session of the current Congress between now
and the end of this year seems likely to be limited to keeping the
government funded beyond the expiration of the current continuing
resolution on December 9, 2016. President-elect Trump and the
Republican Congress are certain to provide ambitious policy agendas
with plenty of proposals to analyze and the need for significant
legislative activity. However, it remainsto be seen where Democrats
and Republicans, particularly in the Senate, will be able to forge
compromise.

With 24 of the 34 Senate seats up for election on November 8th held
by Republicans, and many of those seats quite vulnerable, retaining
control is a major victory for Senate Majority Leader Mitch
McConnell (R-KY) and his Republican majority. Currently,
Republicans are expected to hold at least 51 seatsin the new
congress, with Senator Kelly Ayotte’s (R-NH) reelection bid in New
Hampshire still undecided. In Louisiana, State Treasurer John
Kennedy (R) received 25 percent of the vote and Foster Campbell
(D), a member of the Louisiana Public Service Commission, received
17%in a crowded 24 candidate “jungle primary” to advancetoa
runoff election to be held on December 10, 2016. Senior House
Ways and Means Committee member Charles Boustany (R-LA) fell
just short in his quest to make the two-candidate runoff receiving
15%of the vote. While the Louisiana seat is technically undecided,
the state went strongly Republican in the Presidential election and
Kennedy is heavily favored to hold the seat.

Illinois Senator Mark Kirk (R-IL) lost his race to Rep. Tammy
Duckworth (D-IL). In Indiana, Rep. Todd Young (R-IN) won his race
against former Democratic Senator Evan Bayh (D-IN) to succeed
retiring Senator Dan Coats (R-IN). In Nevada, Catherine Cortez Masto
(D-NV) beat Rep. Joe Heck (R-NV) to hold the seat of retiring Senate
Democratic Leader Harry Reid (D-NV). In other notable races:

» Ohio: Once ground zero for Senate control, Senator Rob Portman
(R-OH) easily beat former Governor Ted Strickland (D-OH).

» North Carolina: In arace that was consistently withinthe margin
of error in recent days, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) held onto his
seat against former state legislator Deborah Ross (D-NC).

» Pennsylvania: Behind in most recent polling, Senator Pat Toomey
(R-PA) prevailed against former federal and state environmental
official Katie McGinty (D-PA).

Select Senate race results

Kirkpatrick
McCain

Bennet

Glenn

Murphy
Rubio

Duckworth
Kirk
Indiana
Bayh
Young

Kander
Blunt

Cortez Masto
Heck

Hassan

Ayotte

Ross

Burr

Strickland

Portman

McGinty
Toomey

Feingold
Johnson

EY 2 | Election 2016

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022374
