term headlines were overwhelming any sort of long-term strategy. “The worst thing you
can do is lie to a prosecutor,” said one member of the legal team. The persistent Trump
idea that it is not a crime to lie to the media was regarded by the legal team as at best
reckless and, in itself, potentially actionable: an explicit attempt to throw sand into the
investigation’s gears.

Mark Corallo was instructed not to speak to the press, indeed not to even answer his
phone. Later that week, Corallo, seeing no good outcome—and privately confiding that he
believed the meeting on Air Force One represented a likely obstruction of justice—quit.
(The Jarvanka side would put it out that Corallo was fired.)

“These guys are not going to be second-guessed by the kids,” said a frustrated Bannon
about the firewall team.

Likewise, the Trump family, no matter its legal exposure, was not going to be run by its
lawyers. Jared and Ivanka helped to coordinate a set of lurid leaks—alleging drinking, bad
behavior, personal life in disarray—about Marc Kasowitz, who had advised the president
to send the couple home. Shortly after the presidential party returned to Washington,
Kasowitz was out.

OOK Ok

Blame continued to flow. The odor of a bitter new reality, if not doom, that attached to the
Comey-Mueller debacle was compounded by everyone’s efforts not to be tagged by it.

The sides in the White House—Jared, Ivanka, Hope Hicks, and an increasingly
ambivalent Dina Powell and Gary Cohn on one side, and almost everyone else, including
Priebus, Spicer, Conway, and most clearly Bannon, on the other—were most distinguished
by their culpability in or distance from the Comey-Mueller calamity. It was, as the non-
Jarvanka side would unceasingly point out, a calamity of their own making. Therefore it
became an effort of the Jarvankas not only to achieve distance for themselves from the
causes of the debacle—such involvement as they had they now cast as strictly passive
involvement or just following orders—but to suggest that their adversaries were at least
equally at fault.

Shortly after the Don Jr. story broke, the president not unsuccessfully changed the
subject by focusing the blame for the Comey-Mueller mess on Sessions, even more
forcefully belittling and threatening him and suggesting that his days were numbered.

Bannon, who continued to defend Sessions, and who believed that he had militantly—
indeed with scathing attacks on the Jarvankas for their stupidity—walled himself off from
the Comey smashup, was now suddenly getting calls from reporters with leaks that
painted him as an engaged participant in the Comey decision.

In a furious phone call to Hicks, Bannon blamed the leaks on her. In time, he had come
to see the twenty-eight-year-old as nothing more than a hapless presidential enabler and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020081
