FX: Sell EUR/GBP

GBP remains a consensus short. Despite GBP appreciating following the High Court
decision for a Parliamentary vote to activate Article 50 and the US elections, the
market’s short GBP position remains stretched according to our positioning analysis
(Chart 44}. Our Global Fund Manager Survey flags short GBP as the strongest consensus
view in G10 FX. Our EX & Rates Sentiment survey also suggests that the majority of
investors look for some type of hard Brexit. Although we have been arguing for upside
GBP risks after the recent flash crash, our baseline projections expect GBP/USD to hit a
new low of 1.15 in Q1 after the UK activates Article 50.

However, we have argued that GBP tail risks are skewed to the upside. UK data have
been strong post-referendum and could continue surprising to the upside. There is room
for positive headlines at the political front, if the UK agrees on the transitional period
that could extend the current regime until a final trader deal with the EU. A
Parliamentary vote on Article 50 activation could reduce the chances of a hard Brexit.
And Trump’s victory could lead to an early bilateral US-UK trade deal, while it increases
the geopolitical importance of the UK for the rest of the EU. Moreover, we expect
markets to become more concerned about political tail risks in the rest of Europe
following Trump’s victory in the US elections. Political risks in Italy and France could
question the sustainability of the Eurozone, thus weakening EUR/GBP.

If Prime Minister Matteo Renzi loses the referendum on the constitutional reform in
December, Italy could have a snap election, which the Five Star party could win based on
the latest polls. Even if Italy avoids elections in 2017, the next election will take place by
May 2018, and markets could become concerned about it earlier if Renzi loses the
referendum. The 2017 French election is another concern. President of the far-right
party and presidential candidate Marine Le Pen is ahead in the polls to win the first
round. Winning the second round is much more difficult, as she will need more than 50%
of the votes, but investors could start to expect the unexpected after being blindsided in
the UK and the US. Other considerations also support selling EUR/GBP. Data are
consistent with a weaker EUR/GBP (Chart 44). The market is short both EUR and GBP,
but long EUR/GBP, with the latest flows pointing to more EUR downside and GBP
upside.

Using a spot reference of 0.8672, we recommend selling EUR/GBP via a 6M
0.84/0.80 put spread, to capture both the referendum in Italy and the French
elections, but also give time for GBP to recover in case it weakens further
following activation of Article 50 in Q1. The structure costs 1.07% EUR.

Chart 44: Positioning is short EUR but even more so in GBP

Chart 45: Data surprises suggest that EUR/GBP should be lower

50
40
30
20

0.0

.B4

-50.0 4

-100.0 +

-150.0 ~

“Iasi

AUD USD

JPY

NOK NZD EUR CAD GBP SEK CHF

V7 7 7

p.79

De
NS
oh

%
%,
eee

wLatest Positioning © =Change in positioning

eee F7-UK data surprises (RHS)

=== EURGBP (RHS)

Source: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research.

Source: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research.

24 Global Rates, FX & EM 2017 Year Ahead | 16 November 2016

BankofAmerica <2”
Merrill Lynch

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014754
