in the PUA community to avoid associating themselves with anything resembling
feminist thought or woman-friendly perspectives.

Clearly, many men view pickup artistry as a kind of therapy. The community can be a
support group for self-confidence and self-improvement. Unfortunately, many corners of
the seduction community are also a support group for virulent misogyny. Some feminists
argue that any man who seeks self-help through the seduction community is effectively
embracing misogyny, because so much of the community is misogynist. However, some
PUA students could be interpreted as seeking self-help from the only avenue they see as
acceptable, if they are coming from a culture that usually defines self-help as un-
masculine or anti-masculine. Again, note that Neil Strauss said: self-help isn't
emasculating anymore if you're doing it to get laid.”

The most confusing thing about misogyny among PUAs is that although some more-
misogynist PUAs separate themselves consciously from non-misogynist PUAs, and vice
versa, the groups still overlap a great deal. Even PUA-influenced men who prioritize non-
misogyny, and are willing to talk to a feminist writer like me, often seem to soak up
misogynist ideas from the rest of the subculture. At one point, I talked to one PUA I
thought was committed to being non-sexist... until he expounded quite seriously upon
how his favorite PUA blogger thinks the USA would be better off if women did not vote.
One goal of my book, Confessions of a Pickup Artist Chaser, is to draw clearer lines: to
give examples of PUAs and PUA approaches that seem more abusive or inclined towards
harm, as opposed to approaches that seem mostly playful, harmless or even positive.

TK OK ok

Although I want to cry when I see statements like, If it wasn't for the pussy, there would
be a bounty on women,” I try not to let it distract me from some insights emerging from
the seduction community. By focusing empirically and pragmatically on the process of
sexual escalation, PUAs are approaching gender norms in a way that many people --
including feminists -- usually do not. Also, I can relate to some PUAs because some
PUAs have the same history of social anxiety that I do.

I have another personal reason for feeling uncomfortable painting PUAs as the enemy.”
When feminists criticize how PUAs approach sexuality, I have mixed feelings, because I
myself am known for sexual desires that are unpopular with some feminists. As I grew
out of being an awkward little bookworm nerd, as I began dating and exploring my
sexual needs, I started to understand my sexuality as being heavily involved with BDSM.

Consensual BDSM is a heavily stigmatized type of sexuality, although some sexologists
have argued that it might be viewed as a sexual orientation. Many feminists marginalize
BDSM just as much as the rest of society does -- or more. Famous German feminist Alice
Schwarzer once said: Female masochism is collaboration,” and a recent history of Ms.
Magazine quotes a co-founding editor who recalls that:

I threatened to leave over a manuscript by a woman who was a former editor of ours
who was writing about why she was a masochist and trying to make it an okay choice. I
would rather leave than work for a magazine that published that. And we didn't publish
it.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018668
