did the transition, and if you remember, the campaign was the most chaotic, in the media’s
description, most chaotic, most disorganized, most unprofessional, had no earthly idea
what they were doing, and then you saw ’em all crying and weeping that night on
November 8.”

Back in the White House, Jared Kushner, watching the proceedings casually and then
more attentively, suddenly felt a rising anger. Thin-skinned, defensive, on guard, he
perceived Bannon’s speech as a message sent directly to him. Bannon has just credited the
Trump victory to everybody else. Kushner was certain he was being taunted.

When Schlapp asked the two men to enumerate the accomplishments of the last thirty
days, Priebus floundered and then seized on Judge Gorsuch and the deregulation executive
orders, all things, said Priebus, “that’—he paused, struggling—“eighty percent of
Americans agree with.”

After a brief pause, as though waiting for the air to clear, Bannon raised the
microphone: “I kind of break it down into three verticals, three buckets; the first, national
security and sovereignty, and that’s your intelligence, defense department, homeland
security. The second line of work is what I refer to as economic nationalism, and that is
Wilbur Ross at Commerce, Steve Mnuchin at Treasury, [Robert] Lighthizer at Trade, Peter
Navarro, [and] Stephen Miller, who are rethinking how we are going to reconstruct our
trade arrangements around the world. The third, broadly, line of work is deconstruction of
the administrative state—” Bannon stopped for a moment; the phrase, which had never
before been uttered in American politics, drew wild applause. “The way the progressive
left runs is that if they can’t get it passed they’re just going to put it in some sort of
regulation in an agency. That’s all going to be deconstructed.”

Schlapp fed another setup question, this one about the media.

Priebus grabbed it, rambled and fumphered for a while, and ended up, somehow, on a
positive note: We'll all come together.

Lifting the microphone, once again Joshua-like, and with a sweeping wave of his hand,
Bannon pronounced, “It’s not only not going to get better, it’s going to get worse every
day”—his fundamental apocalyptic song—“and here’s why—and by the way, the internal
logic makes sense, corporatist, globalist media, that are adamantly opposed, adamantly
opposed, to an economic nationalist agenda like Donald Trump has. And here’s why it’s
going to get worse: because he’s going to continue to press his agenda. And as economic
conditions continue to get better, as more jobs get better, they’re going to continue to fight.
If you think they’re going to give you your country back without a fight you are sadly
mistaken. Every day it is going to be a fight. This is why I’m proudest of Donald Trump.
All the opportunities he had to waver off this. All the people he had coming to him saying
‘Oh, you got to moderate.’ ” Another dig at Kushner. “Every day in the Oval Office he
tells Reince and me, “I committed this to the American people. I promised this when I ran.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019984
