monkey had learned to pucker up his
lips, the neuron would fire both when the
monkey did this or when the monkey
observed another monkey (or even a
human) doing this. These motor neurons
have been dubbed “mirror neurons”,
since they respond during both execution
of action and during observation of the
same action in a mirror-like fashion.’
Mirror neurons are not active during
observation of an appropriate action if
there is no goal (1.e., the object is absent)
or when an appropriate object is
presented alone. Mirror neurons have
been discovered both for mouth actions
and hand actions, and for both visual and
auditory perception of actions.

Seeing a previously learned
action performed by someone else seems
to resonate in some neurons in the motor
system almost as if the action were being
performed by the observer. It is as if the
observed action stimulates some motor
neurons to “remember” what it was like
to perform action. Of course, this is not
memory in the overt sense of conscious
recollection, but rather that the
experience of execution changes the
response of the neurons to observation.
Not all the motor neurons respond this
way but a small number have been
shown to respond when performing and
observing an action. Such mirror
neurons could provide a correspondence
between the experience one has of
performing an action and seeing the
same action performed by others.

These mirror neurons might
provide one basis for understanding
action. Relating actions we observe to
actions we have carried out seems like
an important component for
comprehension. After all, we knew what
we were doing when we performed an
action. If that experience is somehow
reinstated during observation we might

Page |79

attribute our past experience as the
interpretation of the present observation.
Imitation when observing an action
might occur because our motor system is
stimulated by observing an action.
Coordination of action could occur
because in representing others’ actions
as if they were our own, our brains may
be able to compute the time when we
can act without disrupting the other
person. This is just the kind of process
that is described in Gun Semin’s chapter
when he describes how groups of people
can synchronize their actions like
clapping together.

From monkey brains to human
intention

Of course, relating responses in
monkey brains to human brains is
neither direct nor simple. Parts of the
monkey brain and and parts of the
human brain that putatively correspond,
while similar, are not identical in
number or size or location, and probably
do not do exactly the same things, since
monkeys and humans have evolved to
have somewhat different capacities and
behaviors. Furthermore, the study of
mirror neurons in monkeys is based on
recording the responses of individual
neurons, which is not generally possible
in humans except in rare cases of
medical necessity. The measures we can
make on intact human brains come from
the responses of many thousands of
neurons, so it is difficult to make claims
about neurons that respond in producing
an action and perceiving the same
action. This means that any claims about
human mirror neurons depend on a
degree of good faith and inference rather
than specific empirical demonstration
that individual neurons respond both to
observing and executing action.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021325
