forced decision between yes and no is called the excluded middle. The
constructionist mathematician, an orientation without the excluded middle, asserts
that “an odd perfect number exists” would only be meaningful if one could show that
such a number had been found or constructed. The classical mathematician would
find the phrase “no odd perfect number exists” meaningful without a concrete
example, if the assumption of its existence would lead to a no (versus yes)
contradiction encountered in the proof-relevant network of established theorems
and their relations. The symbolic operations of these formal schools of mathematics
and their relationship to the objective and ideational realities of brain-mind-spiritual
life have been viewed by some as Western cultural products rather than
expressions of secular or spiritual Absolutes. Still others have argued that cultural
relativism is not relevant here because mathematicians worldwide constitute a
monoculture.

With respect to the real world existence of abstract mathematical structure,
our Platonic bias must be obvious. The thrilling experience of a new reality | get to
know from finally understanding how a theorem works and the rush of peering into
the grandeur of the Grand Canyon feel like the same kind of full-of-wonder high to
me. | blend them here without reservation. Perhaps this world of spiritual abstraction
is closer to the orientation of the school of intuitionist mathematics. |ts founder,
L.E.J. Brouwer, required that every mathematical construction be so immediately
apparent to the human mind that no formal proof was necessary. This became my
form of spiritual transcendence, which led naturally to a mathematical, mystical
faith.

We carry the explication of this kind of reality further. Reflections of the good
and evil, right and left, moral directional biases and their relative weightings in born
again bifurcations to invariant circles called limit cycles, can be symbolically
represented in what are called the complex eigenvalues of matrices describing the
system’s set of orthogonal motions with changes in their control parameters. The
behavior of these complex eigenvalues underlies and characterizes the

mathematical mechanism of the Hopf bifurcation.

159

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013659
