170

CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE

The Russians Are Coming

The breakup of the Soviet Union was the greatest geopolitical tragedy of the 20th century.—Vladimir Putin

In the first invasion of a European country since the end of the Cold War, Russian military
forces moved into the Crimea and other parts of Eastern Ukraine in February and March of 2014.
Unlike with previous Russian troop movements, such as those into Poland, Hungary,
Czechoslovakia and Eastern Germany during the Cold War, the week-long massing of Russian
elite troops and sophisticated equipment for the move into Ukraine almost totally evaded
detection by the NSA’s surveillance. It failed to pick up tell-tale signs of the impending invasion.
Never before had the NSA’s multibillion dollar armada of sensors and other apparatus for
intercepting signals missed such a massive military operation. According to a report in the Wall
Street Journal that cited Pentagon sources, Russian units had managed to hide all electronic
traces of its elaborate preparations. If so, after more than a half-century of attempted
penetrations, Russia apparently had found a means of stymieing the interception capabilities of the
NSA.

While American political scientists wrote optimistically about the end of history, Putin had his
own ideas about restoring Russia’s power in the post-Cold War. A formidable KGB officer
before he became President of the Russian Federation in 2000, he made no secret that his goal
was to prevent the United States from obtaining what he termed “global hegemony.” His logic
was clear. He judged the break-up of the Soviet Union in 1991 to be as, as he put it, “a
geopolitical tragedy.” He argued that the break-up had provided the United States with the
means to become the singular dominant power in the world. He sought to prevent that feared
outcome by moving aggressively to redress this loss of Russian power. He upgraded Russia’s
nuclear force, modernized Russia’s elite military units and greatly strengthened Russia’s relations
with China. The last measure was essential since China was Russia’s principle ally in opposing
the extension of American dominance. Yet, there was still an immense gap between it and the
United States in communications intelligence.

Since the break-up of the Soviet Union, the NSA had continued to build up its
technologically capabilities while those of Russia, which teetered on the edge of collapse in the
early 1990s. But the NSA also had its problems. As previously mentioned, the NSA’s legal mandate had
been limited by Congress to foreign interceptions (at least prior to 9/11 in 2001.) As a result, it was
required to separate out domestic from foreign surveillance, a massive process which was not only time-
consuming but could generate dissidence within the ranks of American intelligence. It also could not
legally use its surveillance machinery to monitor the telephones and Internet activities of the tens of
thousands of civilian contractors who ran its computer networks—at least not unless the FBI began an
investigation into them. Here the Russian intelligence services had a clear advantage. They had a lawful
mandate to intercept any and all domestic communications, In fact, a compulsory surveillance system
called by its Russian acronym SORM had been incorporated into Russian law in 1995. It requires the FSB
and seven other Russian security agencies to monitor all forms of domestic communications including

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020322
