ACKRELL
CAPITAL Cannabis Investment Report | December 2017
Because dispensaries “touch the plant,” they must usually obtain a state license. Obtaining a state
dispensary license generally involves a multi-month application process that requires the applicant to
demonstrate compliance with complex license criteria and local regulations, such as producing their
own products (or being prohibited from doing so), locating their dispensary outside a city’s ordinary
retail or commercial zones, operating as a nonprofit cooperative or collective, tracking cannabis prod-
ucts from “seed to sale,” and collecting taxes on behalf of the state. Dispensaries must also comply
with applicable regulations related to product testing, packaging and labeling, security, and health and

sanitary conditions.

An extensive network of dispensaries across jurisdictions will facilitate the growth of the cannabis
industry and its ability to attract new consumers. Currently, states with the most extensive networks
of dispensaries are those that have both recreational and medical cannabis laws, such as Colorado,
Oregon and Washington, and those that have had medical cannabis laws for a long period of time, such
as California. For example, according to the Rocky Mountain High-Intensity Drug Trafficking Area,
as of June 2017, in Colorado there were 491 cannabis dispensaries, compared to 392 Starbucks and
208 McDonald’s.

E-Commerce

E-commerce refers to the use of digital applications to enhance the cannabis shopping experience. For
example, a mobile application may facilitate the comparison of cannabis products and pricing or the
delivery of orders from local dispensaries. These applications are being developed by a host of mar-
ket participants, ranging from software development companies to retail dispensaries. Due to federal
restrictions, cannabis e-commerce transactions are currently conducted only intrastate. If and when
federal restrictions change to allow interstate cannabis commerce, we expect that home-delivery and
e-commerce services will increase significantly. E-commerce solutions with high consumer engagement
(such as those providing reviews and price comparisons for a broad selection of products) will help
retailers acquire and retain customers.

_ 470 Plan s+

Prerolls att A 2

Fant, carry ai elanale. jut light your prevailed joint anc

hale,
1 l
bc] a5
Minds CBD

‘Sain FFeck indice 7-Pack

Black Lime Reserve

!
Flower SEE 4

The best bud. Grind up, roll or pack into your
preferred smoking device,

Universal Cartridge Accessories

Sample E-Commerce Menus

42 © 2017 Ackrell Capital, LLC | Member FINRA/SIPC

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024678
