agent and Jean Pigozzi as an international banker.

Lunch is called at 4 p.m. and Michael Douglas takes seven heavily made-up and bejeweled women including Susan, Jill and me
to a restaurant around the corner. Gordon Gekko hosts a hen party talking about children, schools, country houses and vacations.

Back on the set Oliver is shooting the actual dinner. Assistant directors ask for volunteers to dance to the live music. Prince
Dimitri twirls and dips Jackie Weld. Kelly Klein, in her own Karl Lagerfeld sheer black organza, watches from a table with scattered
champagne glasses half-filled with apple juice along with her 86-year-old father, Tulley Rector. Charlie Sheen leaves for LA and
Shia is very annoyed he was not introduced to his hero. Carrie Mulligan, costumed like Audrey Hepburn, chats with us between
takes.

The final set up is a long tracking shot of Josh Brolin and his wife as they triumphantly enter the ball. It is close to 9 p.m. and
Lord William Astor arrives to pick me up for Amalia Dayan and Adam Lindemann's dinner for artists uptown.

Oliver is introduced to William and delights in calling him Lord as he immediately moves him into the top of the shot and
instructs him to tell Eli Wallach, We must do lunch. Ever the proper English gentleman, William advises Oliver that Lords do not
use American slang and improvises his own lines. The tracking shot continues for numerous takes following Josh and Noelle as
every VIP extra gets another shot at instant stardom with one-line greetings.

At last, “It’s a wrap” is screamed after 10 p.m. Prince Dimitri tells The Wall Street Journal it was, a day of electrifying
glamour, and “the longest gala of my life. I was in black tie for thirteen hours.

November 25, Tommy Gun Salon, Ludlow Street, last day of shooting

Donald Trump is on set at 7 a.m. ready for his close up. He is trying to make a mid-day departure on his jet from Teterboro
with wife Melania and son Baron for Thanksgiving weekend in Palm Beach. Back in September, Oliver had invited Donald Trump to
dinner at 21 to meet his leading men Josh and Shia so they could observe New York's most charismatic powerbroker in his natural
environment.

The scene is London so the grey skies are perfect. Gekko has moved abroad to make his financial comeback. The scene opens
on the back of his head in a barber's chair as he watches the financial news on TV. The camera pulls back and Gordon Gekko is
finally revealed as the powerful bull he once was in an exquisite suit and signature slicked-back hair. Donald Trump walks into the
shop for a cut and the banter begins about the money market. From his chair, Donald leans into Michael and suggests a comb over
like his famous do. Gekko, with a slight grin, says, No thanks Donald, I am a gel man.

The crew is yucking it up and Donald feels great. Paparazzi shoot the whole scene with long lenses from across the street. The
unit publicist is helpless to keep this under wraps. Donald emerges, poses and gives interviews. Michael comes out, and the press
think they have a scoop on the ending. Gekko is back in all his lovable titan splendor. Full-page photos of Michael and Donald run
the next day in the tabloids. Never underestimate Oliver Stone’s surprise endings.

Twentieth Century Fox releases Wall Street 2: The Money Never Sleeps on April 23rd and it's got hit written all over it.

Bis Bis Bhs fs bls fs fs 2s 2s 24s 2s 2s fs fe 2s Bis fe 2 is fe 2 fs Bhs 2s oft ahs aft 2s 2s OIE fe 2fs OIE fe 2 Bis fe 2s is ahs fe fs ahs ahs 2s 2fe ahs 2s 2s fs fe 2k 2fs fe fe 2fs 2s 2 afk
The information contained in this communication is

confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may

constitute inside information, and is intended only for

the use of the addressee. It is the property of

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021245
