6

At HQME

ithin the first weeks of his presidency a theory emerged among Trump’s friends
WV that he was not acting presidential, or, really, in any way taking into account his
new status or restraining his behavior—from early morning tweets, to his refusal to follow
scripted remarks, to his self-pitying calls to friends, details of which were already making
it into the press—because he hadn’t taken the leap that others before him had taken. Most
presidents arrived in the White House from more or less ordinary political life, and could
not help but be awed and reminded of their transformed circumstances by their sudden
elevation to a mansion with palacelike servants and security, a plane at constant readiness,
and downstairs a retinue of courtiers and advisers. But this would not have been that
different from Trump’s former life in Trump Tower, which was more commodious and to
his taste than the White House, with servants, security, courtiers, and advisers always on
the premises and a plane at the ready. The big deal of being president was not so apparent
to him.

But another theory of the case was exactly opposite: he was totally off-kilter here
because everything in his orderly world had been thrown on its head. In this view, the
seventy-year-old Trump was a creature of habit at a level few people without despotic
control of their environment could ever imagine. He had lived in the same home, a vast
space in Trump Tower, since shortly after the building was completed in 1983. Every
morning since, he had made the same commute to his office a few floors down. His corner
office was a time capsule from the 1980s, the same gold-lined mirrors, the same 7ime
magazine covers fading on the wall; the only substantial change was the substitution of
Joe Namath’s football for Tom Brady’s. Outside the doors to his office, everywhere he
looked there were the same faces, the same retainers—servants, security, courtiers, the
“yes people’”—who had attended him basically always.

“Can you imagine how disruptive it would be if that’s what you did every day and then
suddenly you’re in the White House?” marveled a longtime Trump friend, smiling broadly
at this trick of fate, if not abrupt comeuppance.

Trump found the White House, an old building with only sporadic upkeep and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019947
