bodyguards of Finance Minister Rafie al-Issawi, who is Sunni, arrested for
alleged terrorist activities on Dec. 20 — almost exactly one year after he

ordered the arrest of Sunni Vice President Tariq al-Hashimi’s security
detail. Hashimi fled to Turkey and is unlikely to return soon to Iraq, where
he was sentenced to death after Maliki demanded his trial in absentia for
murder and financing terrorism.

The threat to Issawi, a moderate technocrat from Anbar, galvanized Iraqi
Sunnis, who rightly saw Maliki’s move as sectarian and an assault on
government participation by Sunnis not under the prime minister’s thumb.
Three days after the arrests, demonstrations broke out in Ramadi, Fallujah
and Samarra. Three days after that, a large protest closed the highway
from Baghdad to Syria and Jordan. The popular resistance spread to Mosul
on Dec. 27.

These protests erupted during a constitutional crisis and as an expanding
Arab-Kurd conflict has become increasingly militarized. Iraqi President
Jalal Talabani was incapacitated by a stroke on Dec. 17 and has been out
of the countryfor treatment. Iraq’s constitution specifies a line of
succession — but with one vice president in exile and the other a Shiite
and obvious Maliki proxy, Iraq has been, in effect, operating without a
president. Political processes that require presidential involvement have
been paralyzed, including moving forward with long-standing efforts by
Sunnis and Kurds to hold a parliamentary vote of no-confidence in Maliki.

Talabani had been the critical link holding Baghdad and Kurdistan
together since tensions rose following a 10-day standoff between Iraqi
army units and Kurdish pesh merga troops in October, after Maliki sent
the army toward the disputed city of Kirkuk. That move followed a series
of skirmishes and mobilizations along the “Green Line” separating
Kurdistan from Arab Iraq and a series of attacks in the area by al-Qaeda in
Iraq.

The recent protests underscore the collapse of the inclusive political
accommodation reached in 2007, which had been reconfirmed by the
formation of a grand Sunni-Shiite-Kurd coalition government after
parliamentary elections in 2010. By November 2012, Maliki had evolved

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_027117
