11/14/2017

Capital Markets

Rockefeller & Co., Inc.: Private Company Information - Bloomberg

November 14, 2017 6:15 PM ET

Company Overview of Rockefeller & Co., Inc.

Snapshot

Company Overview

Rockefeller & Co., Inc. is a privately owned
investment manager. It provides its services to High
net worth individuals, their families, family offices and
related entities, funds organized as domestic or
offshore (non-U.S.) companies, limited partnerships,
limited liability companies or other types of legal
entities; U.S. registered investment companies;
Trusts and other fiduciary accounts , Foundations,
endowments, charitable and other nonprofit
institutions; Taxable and tax-exempt accounts, and
Sovereign Nation(s). The firm manages separate
client-focused equity and fixed income portfolios. The
firm invests in the public equity markets across the
globe. It invests in the fixed income m...

Detailed Description

Phone: 212-549-5330
Fax: 212-549-5524
www.rockco.com

10 Rockefeller Plaza
New York, NY 10020

United States

Founded in 1882

People

Key Executives For Rockefeller & Co., Inc.

Mr. Reuben Jeffery Ill, J.D.

Managing Director, President, CEO, and Member of
the Board

Age: 64

Mr. David Westbrook

Chief Financial Officer and Managing Director

Mr. Stuart Hendry
Chief Operating Officer and Managing Director

Mr. David Peter Harris CFA
Chief Investment Officer, Managing Director, and
Portfolio Manager

Ms. Yvette Marie Garcia J.D.
Chief Administrative Officer, Secretary, Managing
Director, and General Counsel

Compensation as of Fiscal Year 2017.

Rockefeller & Co., Inc. Key Developments

Rockefeller & Co Names David Rockefeller, Jr. as Chairman

Oct 31 16

Rockefeller & Co announced that director David Rockefeller, Jr. has been appointed chairman of the board of
directors. Mr. Rockefeller, a founding member of the board of directors, succeeds Colin G. Campbell, who
has served as chairman since 2003. Mr. Campbell will remain a member of the board of directors. As
chairman, Mr. Rockefeller will lead the board of directors in its oversight of the firm’s business, and will work
closely with Rockefeller & Co. CEO and president, Reuben Jeffery III, in supporting the firm’s delivery of best
in class wealth advisory and asset management services to high net worth individuals, families and

institutions.

Similar Private Companies By Industry

Recent Private Companies Transactions

Company Name Region Type
Date Target
@Visory LLC United States
: Merger/Acquisition --
1 Road Partners LLC United States October 3, 2017
11T Partners, LLC United States
https:/Awww.bloomberg.com/research/stocks/private/snapshot.asp?privcapld=1082551 1/2

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012066
