JAMES PATTERSON

Put simply, Epstein has made allegations that have no basis
in fact. To the contrary, his lawsuit was merely a desperate
measure by a serial pedophile to prevent being held account-
able for repeatedly sexually abusing minor females. Epstein’s
ulterior motives in filing.and prosecuting this lawsuit are
blatantly obvious. Epstein’s behavior is another clear demon-
stration that he feels he lives above the law and that because
of his wealth he can manipulate the system and pay for law-
yers to do his dirty work—even to the extent of having them
assert baseless claims against other members of the Florida
Bar. Epstein’s Complaint against Edwards and LM is nothing
short of a far-fetched fictional fairy-tale with absolutely no
evidence whatsoever to support his preposterous claims. It
was his last ditch effort to escape the public disclosure
by Edwards and his clients of the nature, extent, and sordid
details of his life as a serial child molester. Edwards's
Motion for Summary Judgment should be granted without

equivocation.

Edwards filed a counterclaim for malicious prosecution. “He
sued me with knowingly made up, falsified facts’ Edwards says.

And his sole motivation was to extort me into abandoning
the legitimate cases I was pursuing against him on behalf of
the victims, including the CVRA suit. He ultimately had to
dismiss that case, literally on the morning our Summary
Judgment was to be heard. I then sued him. We were set for
trial. The judge granted me punitive damages in my claim.
And then, in a separate case in Florida, one of the appellate

courts basically abolis}
in Florida. My case was
our district ruled that
stand and the tort is nm
back to the trial court
the State Supreme Cour

Sarah Kellen

“She said her name was C
tion,” says a real estate a
much later that I realized s
In April of 2009, that a:
Beach. For Clara, that littl
Epstein’s big house on El Br.
as Sarah Kellen. But not suc
pay four thousand dollars a
2009,” says a Palm Beach re
market. “But she stayed a lot
round-the-world trip for at I
Kellen had been a prime
Prosecutors had considered c
Marcinkova as potential c
charges as part of the plea de
the course of which it was <
pleaded to something, he coul
slapping her, once, on his jet.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022177
