CHAPTER Ill Cannabis Industry Segmentation

Cannabis Software Platforms

Business Services

The business services market includes (i) operational consulting, including facility planning, con-
struction and security; (ii) financial services, including accounting and payment-processing services;
(iii) legal, compliance and other professional advisory services; (iv) temporary and full-time staffing
services; (v) real estate services; and (vi) industry events and conferences. These services are typically
provided by professional services firms; some of these firms focus solely on the cannabis industry while
others serve a broad range of industries.

Business Solutions Opportunities
We believe opportunities in this segment include:

Industry-specific Solutions. As the cannabis industry emerges, there will be a significant market
opportunity for providers of solutions tailored for the industry. Point-solution providers may be acqui-
sition targets if larger companies enter the market in the future.

Integrated Platforms. We believe that integrated “seed-to-sale” solutions will be ideally positioned.

“Big Data” Analytics. We believe that there is an attractive opportunity to develop and license
industry datasets. Such datasets should provide strategic advantages to organizations that establish
substantial reach early and may also be licensed more broadly to enhance targeting, services, cross-sales
and product development.

Business Solutions Challenges
Challenges in this segment include:

Development and Deployment Risk. Due to the time and investment required to develop software
products and the emerging nature of the cannabis industry, there is a risk that developed applications
may not be effective or widely adopted. In addition, certain segments of the cannabis industry are more
mature than others; this disparity may present challenges in developing solutions that support cohesive
and scalable business models.

Low Barriers to Entry. Numerous sectors of the business services market are becoming increasingly
crowded.

© 2017 Ackrell Capital, LLC | Member FINRA/SIPC 57

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024693
