Acknowledgments

This Working Group was jointly convened by the Hoover Institution at Stanford University
and the Center on US-China Relations at Asia Society in New York. These co-conveners
have also been assisted, financially and logistically, by The Annenberg Foundation Trust

at Sunnylands. We are grateful to each of these institutions for their support of our work,
and to Thomas Gilligan, Director of the Hoover Institution, and Ambassador David Lane,
President of The Annenberg Foundation Trust at Sunnylands, for their personal support

of this project. We also thank the latter two institutions, as well as the China Policy
Program of the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University, for
supporting and hosting meetings of the Working Group.

This report has been a collaborative effort among a group of American scholars and policy
practitioners who have spent long careers studying and engaging China, Asia more broadly,
and a wide variety of political systems around the world. Each participant also has an
abiding interest in protecting and strengthening democratic institutions in the United
States and elsewhere in the world. While different participants took the lead in drafting
particular sections of the report, each section was reviewed and contributed to by a number
of participants in what became a truly collective and collaborative research effort. Our
general findings and policy principles represent a broad—though not necessarily complete—
consensus of the Working Group Participants.

This Working Group grew out of the Task Force on US-China Relations (chaired by Susan
Shirk and Orville Schell}, and we thank the Carnegie Corporation of New York and the
Henry Luce Foundation for their support of the Task Force. Although the two efforts share
many members in common, they are separate and distinct endeavors.

We present this report as the collective product of discussions and research among a group
of distinguished American specialists on China and US foreign affairs. It analyzes the
growing challenge posed by China’s influence-seeking activities in the United States across
a number of important sectors of American public life. However, as we note throughout the
report, these influence activities are not confined to the US. Indeed, they appear in different
forms and to different degrees in a large number of other democratic societies around the
world (in some cases more deeply than in the US). We therefore have opted to include in an
Appendix short summary reports on China’s influence activities (and the resulting national
responses) in eight other countries,

We owe a particular debt of thanks to Kyle Hutzler, an MBA student at Stanford University
with significant experience in China. His superior organizational skills and uncomplaining

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020452
