?

only four days before the impending hostilities in Gaza, kept him in
dark. As a consequence of the incursion, Israeli-Syrian negotiations
that had made considerable progress under Turkish auspices fell
apart, depriving Erdogan of what he thought was an important
breakthrough.

After the Gaza incident at the yearly Davos meetings in Switzerland,
Erdogan publicly berated Israeli Ppresident Shimon Peres,
paradoxically one of Turkey’s greatest supporters. Received as a hero
after Davos in Turkey, Erdogan dramatically increased the stridency
of his rhetoric against Israel. The Turkish prime minister became the
most popular leader in the proverbial Arab street.

Then came the Mavi Marmara flotilla incident: Israelis completely
bungled the operation. They disregarded the publicly available
information on the Turkish group organizing the flotilla and, more
importantly, sent forces to intercede without any serious training or
accurate intelligence. As a result, the Israelis landing on the ship
encountered resistance and fired their weapons in panic. Cue the
second terrible error in judgment: Instead of facing up to the fact that
it had erred in sending unprepared soldiers into what amounted to be
a trap, the Israeli government circled the wagons. Given the
magnitude of the fiasco and its possible ramifications, those who
were responsible should have been punished. None of that happened,
of course, and no one lost his or her job as a result.

As Turkey insisted on an apology and compensation, it became clear
that Israel had lost the public-opinion contest and may even be forced
to relax the embargo on Gaza. Having found that it had done nothing
wrong, the Netanyahu government refused. If domestic politics in
both countries appeared to prevent a compromise from emerging, the
fact is that there were many behind the scenes diplomatic efforts,
including face-to-face discussions, to resolve the problem. The
United Nations formed the Palmer Commission to come up with a

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025003
