shown in Exhibit 6. This improvement in net worth
will enable households to lower their savings

rates going forward and support consumption.
Therefore, even if the “hangover” hypothesis was
partly valid earlier in the recovery, it should have
less impact in the future.

During the current recovery, the financial sector
also deleveraged substantially, partly due to the
unusually high levels of leverage that existed as
the crisis began and partly due to greater financial
regulation resulting from the Dodd-Frank Wall
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act signed
into federal law by President Barack Obama on
July 21, 2010. As shown in Exhibit 7, the financial
sector began to deleverage even before Dodd-Frank
and has continued to do so through 2016.

However, more recently, the pace of
deleveraging has abated, as shown in Exhibits 4
and 7. Furthermore, such deleveraging may well
be bottoming and soon reverse as households
and the financial sector face a more favorable
fiscal and regulatory policy environment under
President-elect Trump. For all practical purposes,
the “hangover” may now be over.

Secular Stagnation: Unfavorable Demographics
As we discussed in our 2016 Outlook: The Last
Innings, the term “secular stagnation” was first
coined by economist and Harvard professor
Alvin Hansen in 1934 and fully described in his
presidential address to the American Economic
Association in 1938. He predicted that poor
demographics, limited innovation and few
trading and investment opportunities would slow
US growth.

The term was more recently popularized
by Lawrence Summers, professor at Harvard
University and former secretary of the Treasury,
when he referred to secular stagnation in a 2013
speech at the International Monetary Fund.

Hansen’s dire predictions never came to pass,
and the US experienced close to record levels of
productivity growth in the post-WWII period up
to 1973, along with strong growth in the labor
force. This current cycle, in contrast to the decades
immediately following Hansen’s predictions, has
been hampered by weak demographics and a
decline in the growth rate of the labor force. In a
September 2016 study, aptly called “How Should
We Think About This Recovery?,” Jay Shambaugh,
a member of the Council of Economic Advisers,
shows that when one compares this recovery

Exhibit 7: Change in US Financial Sector Leverage
Following Recessions

A decrease in financial sector indebtedness has contributed
to a slower-than-usual recovery.

Change in Debt-to-GDP (Percentage Points)
3050 --«-—--+- Previous Post-W WII Recoveries (Median)
Current Recovery

0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28
Quarters After Recession End

Data through 03 2016.
Source: Investment Strategy Group, National Bureau of Economic Research, Federal Reserve
Economic Data.

with the average of past recoveries, the growth
gap narrows significantly if one accounts for the
number of people in the labor force.'® Instead of
this recovery growing at about half the pace of
the average of past recoveries, the gap narrows to
83% of the average: GDP per number of people in
the labor force has grown at an annualized rate of
1.9%, compared with an average of 2.3% in past
recoveries. A recovery that appears to be at half
the pace of other recoveries is actually in line with
other recoveries after adjusting for the size of the
labor force, as shown by comparing the red lines in
Exhibits 8 and 9.

There are two components to the unfavorable
demographics story. The first is simply the decline in
the growth rate of the US working-age population,
which is driven by aging, the retirement of the baby
boom generation and slower immigration.

This trend cannot be easily reversed; however,
the pace of decline can potentially be slowed.

For example, the commonly accepted retirement
age of 65 can be extended. In fact, there is some
evidence that baby boomers are working longer
than historical norms.!’ When life expectancy was
about 62 years in 1935, the retirement age for
Social Security was 65. Today, life expectancy in
the US is about 79 years, and the retirement age for
Social Security has been extended to 67 for those
born in 1960 or later. Of course, more broadly, the
retirement age is still regarded as 65. A 65-year-

10 | Goldman Sachs | JANUARY 2017

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014543
