course should make clear that the 2014 tax year that will close Oct 2015 is not covered by our past
agreement at all. I pointed this very fact out to you when IJ initially proposed a multi year agreement
right out of the box. you said you preferred not. As you said ,I have produced results to date, far in
excess of even my own exalted opinion of my projections. I have devoted a monumental amount of my
limited amount of time-- way, way in excess of our agreement. I will be fair, I am willing to roll in
the amount still outstanding from last year if that helps .. However, As my best student , and my only
one, you are now capable of doing most, if not all, of the required work yourself. I can put my
whiteboard away when you come to eat and just have fun, trade stories,. share moments ideas etc.. I
am of course always available to guide you as a friend if you choose that route . always . It will take a
great deal of your time , but you will not have to spend any more money on mine .

We are scheduled to meet fri at 430 , I leave at 5 am sat morning.

Date: Fri, Dec 11, 2015 at 12:19 AM
Subject: Re: Fw: sched
To: jeevacation@gmail.com <jeevacation@gmail.com>

Ce: '
°

Jeffrey-joe tells me yau want this to go live on 12/21. Possible, but an awful lot has to
go right next week logistically for everything to fall into place. We'll try....

2

From: Brad Wechsler
Sent: Thursday, December 10, 2015 05:36 PM

To: ‘jeevacation@gmail.com' <jeevacation@gmail.com>

Subject: Fw: Fw: sched

On different subject: general time frame is: docs (notes and purchase and sale
agreement to you tomorrow end of biz); incorporate your comments monday and get
docs to trust attorney tuesday; contemporaneously meet in person with you tuesday or
wednesday and do a dry run. On these days ada will also take the trustees through
outline of docs they will receive thursday. Docs to trustees, leon et al on thursday and
signatures gathered by friday for first close 12/22. Tight but doable. Ada, alan agree?
PS: ada, you shld begin to think abt where people are (jh, rr, bc, Idb) next week.

From: Heather Gray [mailt
Sent: Thursday, December 10, 2015 05:24 PM
To: Brad Wechsler

Cc: Jeffrey Epstein (jeevacation@gmail.com) <jeevacation@gmail.com>
Subject: RE: Fw:

Subject: Re: Fw: sched
Barry-what we're going to do with jeffrey will be small picture and detailed. It might be better for you

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023219
