4.2.12
WC: 191694

Murder Cases I Didn’t Take

For every client whose case I agree to take, I must, regretfully, turn down many. Every week, I
receive dozens, sometimes hundreds, of calls, emails and letters asking me to review cases. Many
of them involve homicides, because some of my most highly publicized cases have involved clients
accused of murder. Because I am a full time professor, my time for litigation is limited. So I must
choose only a handful each year among the many worthy cases. I have several criteria for
choosing which cases I will accept. I rarely turn down cases in which defendants face the
prospect of the death penalty by an American court, and when I do, I try to get another lawyer,
often a former student, to take the case. (The same is true for cases involving freedom of speech
or other First Amendment protections.)

I never turn down a homicide case because it is too hard or because I am too unlikely to win.
When I took the Von Bulow case, nearly everyone thought we had no chance of winning. New
York Magazine, in an article about my involvement in the case, quoted “one of the country’s
leading criminal lawyers” predicting that I would lose the appeal: “He’ll add something useful
and do a brilliant analysis of the record. He isn’t going to make it. Of some guys you can say
“That’s a patient he isn’t going to save. He can only make him more comfortable.”

Esquire magazine had commented that the Von Bulow appeal “looked like another ritualistic
exercise in civil libertarian dogma” that “would churn through the courts simply because there
was money available and a set of arguments that could be made, rather than because [I] had any
real sense that justice in some way had gone astray.”

And one commentator snidely observed that Von Bulow’s “recruitment of Harvard Law
Professor Alan Dershowitz shortly after his conviction would tend to reinforce” the view that
Claus Von Bulow “was no longer protecting his innocence, merely the methods used to catch
him...Dershowitz enjoys a wide reputation as a last resort for convicted criminals, being
especially keep at finding legal loopholes that render his clients’ convictions unconstitutional.”

Similar predictions were made about the O.J. Simpson case and others that I subsequently won. I
actually prefer difficult and challenging cases which the pundits claim are unwinnable. I also
never decline clients because they are too unpopular, too controversial or too guilty.

Why do I defend people who I know are guilty? Because that’s the job of a criminal defense
lawyer and I have chosen that noble profession. But why did I choose a profession in which my
job would be to defend guilty, as well as innocent, defendants? Because unless the guilty are
vigorously defended, the innocent will be at greater risk of being prosecuted, convicted and
executed. The reality is that the vast majority of people who are charged with serious crimes are
factually guilty—that is, they did it! Thank goodness for that. Would anyone want to live in a
country where the majority of people charged with crime were innocent? That may be true in
Iran, China and Belarus, but it is not true of the United States, England, Israel and other countries
with a zealous defense bar. And in order to keep it that way, everyone accused of crime, whether
innocent or guilty, must be vigorously defended within the rules of law and ethics. I’m proud to

223

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017310
