your personal bottom line has increased dramatically, if you had thought of me as your partner in this
endeavor , instead of an employee, i think your reaction to sharing t benefits would be different.

If you recall, you wanted me to be paid , unlike others at the END of my work. we discussed this ad
nauseum, and agreed OCT 15, last year was the end. You had wanted more comfort initially on the art
partnership so that date was delayed. It has now been six monhts since then, your concept of aftercare. . for
free. was already unique , in your words this has to have an end.( weaned ) if the actions of josh and

mark led to one hundred million dollars , what would be their share. Im not sure why it is different in your
mind. but i respect the fact that it is, Is it because their work seems harder. it cannot be simply because they
devote more time to you .or it appears to involve more effort. Iam happy to continue to play a partnership
role. as I have been in many areas of your life.. I am also happy to move on and have no more of these
emails. I find them as tedious as you do . if you prefer a partnership structure , ok with me, I tried to minimize
the amount of money i would recieve by making it a flat fee . as i wanted you to feel good and have no second
thoguths somehow if the payment comes from a partnership structure you seem relaxed as opposed to writing
acheck, I focus on trust and friendship first, and the fact that you don't include josh and mark in that
category, gives me great pause . I proposed 33 percent of money made for you. . in the past you agreed that
amount. it will be huge, but ok with me, Ican talk today at 945 as you suggested. or if you woud1 rather
over the weekend ok

Date: Fri, May 1, 2015 at 7:08 PM
Subject: Fwd: Picasso agreement - question

To: Melanie Spinella PO

silly

Date: Fri, May 1, 2015 at 12:27 PM

Subject: Picasso agreement - question
To: Brad Wechsler a Jeffrey Epstein (jeevacation@gmail.com)

<jeevacation@gmail.com>

Brad and Jeffrey,

Gagosian has one final change to the Picasso agreement. As you know, we have structured this agreement with
the Buyer as either Narrows Holdings LLC or AP Narrows LP, and given both of those entities the right to
assign the agreement to any one among Leon, Debra, the kids, or family trusts including APO1 and APO2.

Gagosian wants us to agree that, if Narrows/AP Narrows assigns the agreement to someone else, Narrows/AP
Narrows “shall not be discharged from its liabilities under this Agreement and shall remain primarily liable to
Seller.” Larry is concerned that we might assign to the Black kids or to a trust that has no assets, and then when
he has to sue us because we don’t make the final payment of the purchase price but have possession of the art,
the entity/person to which we have assigned the agreement has no money.

I think this is a valid concern and that we should agree to it.

However, Ada just reminded me that it is possible that Narrows/AP Narrows (really, Leon’s) agreeing to
effectively guarantee payment by the assignee might be considered a gift to the assignee. In the discussions
with Alan about rearranging the bank loan once AP Narrows is operational, Alan agreed that there could be
deemed to be a potential gift from Leon to APO1/APO2 if Leon provides a guarantee to the bank that is for the
benefit of the trusts as partners in AP Narrows. Alan suggested mitigating this risk by having the trusts sign
side agreements with Leon which say that if AP Narrows defaults on the loan and the bank goes after Leon on
his guarantee, the trusts will make him whole.

This issue only arises if we assign the agreement. The risk is also limited in time because it would run from the
moment we assigned the agreement until the final payment is made, which even if we assigned immediately
after signing, would only be 11 1/2 months.

Shall I agree to Gagosian’s request that Narrows/AP Narrows remain liable even if they assign the agreement?

I’m in the office if you would like to discuss this, but I would love to get back to Gagosian ASAP so we can
have this agreement signed today.

Thanks,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023351
