Summary

Imagine for a moment that the United States government is a public corporation. Imagine
that its management structure, fiscal performance, and budget are all up for review. Now
imagine that you’re a shareholder in USA Inc. How do you feel about your investment?

Because 45% of us own shares in publicly traded companies, nearly half the country expects
quarterly updates on our investments. But although 100% of us are stakeholders in the United
States, very few of us look closely at Washington’s financials. If we were long-term investors,
how would we evaluate the federal government’s business model, strategic plans, and operating
efficiency? How would we react to its earnings reports? Nearly two-thirds of all American
households pay federal income taxes, but very few of us take the time to dig into the numbers of
the entity that, on average, collects 13% of our annual gross income (not counting another 15-
30% for payroll and various state and local taxes).

We believe it’s especially important to pay closer attention to one of our most important
investments.

As American citizens and taxpayers, we care about the future of our country. As investors, we’re
in an on-going search for data and insights that will help us make more informed investment
decisions. It’s easier to predict the future if one has a keen understanding of the past, but we
found ourselves struggling to find good information about America’s financials. So we decided to
assemble — in one place and in a user-friendly format — some of the best data about the world’s
biggest “business.” We also provide some historical context for how USA Inc.’s financial model
has evolved over decades. And, as investors, we look at trend lines which help us understand
the patterns (and often future directions) of key financial drivers like revenue and expenses.

The complexity of USA Inc.’s challenges is well Known, and our presentation is just a starting
point; it’s far from perfect or complete. But we are convinced that citizens — and investors —
should understand the business of their government. Thomas Jefferson and Alexis de
Tocqueville knew that — armed with the right information — the enlightened citizenry of America
would make the right decisions. It is our humble hope that a transparent financial framework can
help inform future debates.

In the conviction that every citizen should understand the finances of USA Inc. and the plans of
its “management team,” we examine USA Inc.’s income statement and balance sheet and
present them in a basic, easy-to-use format. We summarize our thoughts in PowerPoint form and
in this brief text summary at www.kpcb.com/usainc. We encourage people to take our data and
thoughts and study them, critique them, augment them, share them, and make them better.
There’s a lot of material — think of it as a book that happens to be a slide presentation.

CB www.kpcb.com USA Inc. _ vii

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020830
