&0 Teaching Minds

design. They design the information architecture, including content,
sitemap, wireframes, and low-fi prototypes, after which they test their
prototypes on prospective users. The final step in the process is a re-
view of proposals from a set of vendors who could build the site the
students designed.

COURSE 3: MARKETING—LAUNCHING A NEW PRODUCT

In this story, the students belong to a product-launching team. The
goal is to launch a new social network for amateur performers, iSing.
com. Students decide which role they want to play, product marketing
or marketing communication, and working together in teams of four,
they prepare the launching plan for this product. Among the activities
they perform are preparing job descriptions for both roles, preparing
a position strategy statement and a message architecture, preparing a
preliminary market segmentation for the product, preparing demo-
graphics and psychographics of the target groups, launching a kick-
off meeting for the project, and preparing a launching program, in-
cluding the following subtasks: total product requirements, barriers to
customer adoption, competitive analysis, market/customer research,
hiring a research firm, market leverage model, communication plan,
web tools, branding, market research, and hiring a PR firm. Finally,
students prepare a complete budget and defend the plan and the bud-
get in front of the top management of the company.

COURSE 4: RE-ENGINEER A SUPPLY CHAIN

Students now play the role of junior executive in the supply chain
management department of RightByte technologies. They receive a
report from the CEO describing the current processes and the main
problems identified. With this information, students are requested to
find out the root causes of the problems and come up with a suggested
course of action to solve them. They have to take into account the
following design principles for the new solution: customer service im-
pact, impact on cost savings, and ease of implementation.

From this point on, the teams analyze each piece of the sup-
ply chain to make the deep diagnosis: demand/supply planning,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023806
