return expectations, given all the economic policy

and geopolitical uncertainty mentioned earlier. We

believe there are three compelling arguments.
First, there is potential for upside

surprises in 2017:

* Saudi Arabia and the rest of the oil producers
may stick to the announced oil production cuts,
thereby boosting energy sector earnings.

A Trump administration fiscal stimulus could
boost growth by more than we expect.
Corporate tax cuts could increase corporate
sector profitability.

A possible tax holiday could encourage US
multinational corporations to repatriate
some of their earnings and deploy them for
stock buybacks.

We assign a 25% probability of such upside
surprises relative to a 60% probability of our base
case scenario and a 15% downside probability.
(Please see Section III, 2017 Financial Markets
Outlook, for a more detailed discussion.)

Second, we recommend staying invested
because we believe that the probability of a
recession in the US is about 15% over the next
year. There is an 85% chance that the economy
will grow at a rate of about 2% or higher. Absent
a recession, equities are more likely to generate
positive returns. Obviously, the probability of
a recession is substantially higher over the next
five years, and our five-year annualized expected
returns incorporate a 70-80% probability of a
recession.

Third, and most importantly, we do not see
better investment alternatives. Cash will provide
negligible returns with no upside, and we expect
investment grade bonds to have equally negligible
returns with little upside, if any. We also expect
hedge funds, in aggregate, to lag equities on an
after-tax basis.

We expect similarly modest returns from our
tactical tilts.

As equities, high yield and the dollar

have rallied over the course of the

year, we have continued to reduce the

overall risk level of our tactical tilts.

Our Tactical Tilts

As equities, high yield and the dollar have rallied
over the course of the year, we have continued to
reduce the overall risk level of our tactical tilts. At
the beginning of 2016, we had already reduced our
exposures by 50% relative to peak levels in 2015, as
measured by value at risk. By the end of 2016, we had
reduced exposures further, based on our investment
discipline of averaging in and out of our tactical tilts.

Underweight Fixed Income: We continue to
recommend underweighting US fixed income assets
as the Federal Reserve slowly but steadily raises the
federal funds rate. We expect the 10-year Treasury
bond yield to range between 2.5% and 3.0%. As

a result, we forecast a 1% return across short- and
intermediate-maturity fixed income assets and a
near zero return for the 10-year Treasury. Longer
maturities are expected to have negative returns.
We also recommend underweighting fixed income
assets to fund tactical tilts given their higher
expected returns.

Overweight to High Yield: While we reduced

our tactical allocation to high yield assets by half
throughout 2016, we continue to recommend an
allocation to general high yield bonds, high yield
energy bonds and high yield bank loans. The
incremental yield in such securities, adjusted for
defaults, is still compelling, with expected returns
of about 4% for high yield bonds and high yield
energy bonds and about 5% for bank loans.

We forecast that crude oil prices will stay in the
$45-65 range, partly owing to some production
discipline by Saudi Arabia as the largest swing
producer. Our bank loan tilt is further supported
by a rising rate environment; the coupon rate on
bank loans will be reset higher as LIBOR rises.

Modest Overweight to US Banks: We maintain

a modest overweight to US banks despite their
31% return in 2016. Banks will benefit from rising
rates, especially if the increase is greater in the
short end of the yield curve. About 60%
of changes in the net interest margin of
banks is typically driven by changes in
short rates since they are used for setting
the banks’ prime lending rate. Banks will
also likely benefit from a more favorable
regulatory environment under a Trump
administration. We forecast a return

of about 7%.

24 | Goldman Sachs | JANUARY 2017

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014557
