5/2/2016 Case 1:15-cleHed BBqRWiESby Padephite, deff py /Apsteip revEdkechquGeag tweet BED £ A tiptori7 of 8

Scandal: U.S. authorities want to interview Jeffrey Epstein (left) and may wish to quiz his friend, Prince

Andrew

Epstein’s contacts book contains a work and a home telephone number for the senator. Another
acquaintance was Israel defence secretary Ehud Barak, whose spokesman told The Mail on Sunday: ‘Mr
Barak did attend several small functions in Mr Epstein’s home in New York that were usually attended by
leading businessman, university presidents, Nobel Prize Laureates and prominent public
figures.’Epstein’s many Hollywood pals include Matt Groening, creator of The Simpsons.

‘Jeffrey once had me give Matt a foot massage when he was flying on the jet with us,’ Virginia says. ‘He
laughed and did drawings of Bart and Homer for my little brother and my dad.‘Il also met Naomi
Campbell at a birthday party of hers on a yacht in the South of France. She is a friend of Ghislaine’s but

she was a real bitch to me.

‘She was very fake. She turned away from me when we were introduced by Ghislaine and
Jeffrey.‘Donald Trump was also a good friend of Jeffrey’s. He didn’t partake in sex with any of us but he
flirted with me. He’d laugh and tell Jeffrey, “You’ve got the life.” Palm Beach Police say Epstein seemed
utterly unfazed by the allegations against him when they began their long and detailed investigation.

‘Jeffrey's crew: Middle East peace envoy George Mitchell, right, pictured with President Barack Obama
and U.S. Secretary of State Hilary Clinton, frequently visited Epsteings New York residence, Virginia also

claims

But he also took his defence very seriously indeed. Epstein engaged his friend, the Harvard law
professor Alan Dershowitz — whose celebrity clients have included Mike Tyson, Patty Hearst, Claus von

Bulow and O.J. Simpson — to run his legal defence. He also employed a firm of private investigators to
GM_00720

http:/Awww.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-1363452/Bill-Clinton-15-year-old-masseuse-I-met-twice-claims-Epsteins-girl.htm| 6/7

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014810
