Real-Life Learning Projects Considered &7

transportation, warehouse management, sales order management,
and central order fulfilment. Once the diagnosis and requirements
are well established, the teams develop a suggested solution. Finally,
top management requires the team to prepare a change management
evaluation to see whether the company is prepared to undertake such
a complex project.

COURSE 5: INVESTMENT READINESS—
HELP A SMALL TECHNOLOGICAL COMPANY TO SUCCESSFULLY
RAISE FUNDS FOR AN INTERNATIONAL EXPANSION IN A
SECOND ROUND

Next.TV is a small company that has been very successful in the local
market. It has developed a software package to automate an editorial
department of a TV channel. Most of the main domestic channels
have already implemented the package and the company wants to go
international. Students are hired as expert consultants to prepare the
company for this second round of financing and to present the proj-
ect to Venture Capital firms. Students now do several tasks that they
have already done in the previous modules, plus some new tasks, but
they do them now in an integrated manner and with much less time
to finish them. Task to perform are: analyze starting point (P&L and
balance sheet), enhance the product value proposition, prepare a sales
plan, perform a management audit, prepare the internalization plan,
prepare financial planning, write the business plan, identify potential
VC firms to present to, analyze offerings, and negotiate a term sheet.

COURSE 6: ETHICAL AND LEGAL ISSUES IN CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

This course involves reading and discussing a specially written nov-
el. The intent of the novel is to inspire readers to wrestle with the
problems of the characters, who are involved in complex ethical and
moral decisions within the pharmaceutical industry. The novel serves
as a Starting point for the kind of active contemplation and discussion
that truly make people better able to think more deeply about such is-
sues. The students immerse themselves in the story of an international

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023807
