Esquire, and even Time Magazine. Please see Ihe enclosed letter of Allo
Amantova, Director of Figaro Internalional Management. EXHIBIT $.

In addition, ihe modeling events {hat Mr. Brunel hos been organizing
throughoul the years receive not only national, but also international atiention
and appear in multiple publications around the world. One of the mas! recent
events he organized, the Models New Generation contest, which took place in
Ecuador wos publicized and transmitted by vanous lelevision networks ond
appecred on mulliple newspapers and magazines. among them Globo
Television Networks in Brazil. Fashion TY which is broadcast into 202 countries
throughout the word. ยฃ] Universo, Cosas. La Razon. El Diario, EF Telegrafo.
Notinorle, Exira. Hoy. El Gran Guayaquil FE! Comercio. Semana. and 8 Lideres. to
name a few, These major publications have a large subscription rate which
numbers in the many millions of readers. Atlached as EXHIBIT 10. please find
several press arlicles reflecting the prestige and high ciculalion rates of the
above-mentioned magazines and periodicals which have featured and
covered the modeling events in which the beneficiary, Jean Luc Brunel, has
organized throughout the years.

Hence the beneficiary satisfias INA ยง214.2(0}(3) {iv](B)[2} for having
achieved noi only nationat bul also intemational recognition for achievements
in the modeling indusiry, by having hs work published in major newspapers and
magazines ihroughoui the world.

The third preng thal ihe beneficiary satisfies is 8 CFR 6214, 2/0 3HivHBH4).
which requires evidence that the ofien has a record of major commercial or
crilcally acclaimed successes as evidenced by such Indicators as tHe, rating,
standing in the fleld, box office recelpts, motion picture or television ratings, and
other occupational achievements reported in trade journals, major newspapers,
or other publications.

One of ihe main reasons ihai Mr. Brunel has been able jo not only survive.
but abo be extremely successful in the ever-changing word of fashion is his
abiity to identify and recruit star-quality folent. As a resull of his ability to scout
major talents, Mr. Brunel was invited fo become oa member in one of the fashion
industry's mosi elile and important assaciations. the Iniernational Model Talent
Association (hereimnalter IMTA). The [MTA is an intemational association of Iraining
cenlers for models and falent. IMTA gives aspwing modeb. actors, singers, and
doncers speciocutor opporiunilies lo showcase their potential talents in trani of
fon fashion and totent agents from ihe major markets of ihe international
fashien industry. IMTA also provides ifs association members valuable marketing
fips and nelwartking events wilh agents and scouls from around ihe ward.
Severat al todays up and coming actors and models have been discovered at

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011988
