16

COMEY

soy t's impossible to make him understand you can’t stop these investigations,” said Roger

Ailes in early May, a frustrated voice in the Trump kitchen cabinet. “In the old days,
you could say leave it alone. Now you say leave it alone and you’re the one who gets
investigated. He can’t get this through his head.”

In fact, as various members of the billionaires’ cabinet tried to calm down the president
during their evening phone calls, they were largely egging him on by expressing deep
concern about his DOJ and FBI peril. Many of Trump’s wealthy friends saw themselves as
having particular DOJ expertise. In their own careers, they had had enough issues with the
Justice Department to prompt them to develop DOJ relationships and sources, and now
they were always up on DOJ gossip. Flynn was going to throw him in the soup. Manafort
was going to roll. And it wasn’t just Russia. It was Atlantic City. And Mar-a-Lago. And
Trump SoHo.

Both Chris Christie and Rudy Giuliani—each a self-styled expert on the DOJ and the
FBI, and ever assuring Trump of their inside sources—encouraged him to take the view
that the DOJ was resolved against him; it was all part of a holdover Obama plot.

Even more urgent was Charlie Kushner’s fear, channeled through his son and daughter-
in-law, that the Kushner family’s dealings were getting wrapped up in the pursuit of
Trump. Leaks in January had put the kibosh on the Kushners’ deal with the Chinese
financial colossus Anbang Insurance Group to refinance the family’s large debt in one of
its major real estate holdings, 666 Fifth Avenue. At the end of April, the New York Times,
supplied with leaks from the DOJ, linked the Kushner business in a front-page article to
Beny Steinmetz—an Israeli diamond, mining, and real estate billionaire with Russian ties
who was under chronic investigation around the world. (The Kushner position was not
helped by the fact that the president had been gleefully telling multiple people that Jared
could solve the Middle East problem because the Kushners knew all the best people in
Israel.) During the first week of May, the 7Zimes and the Washington Post covered the
Kushner family’s supposed efforts to attract Chinese investors with the promise of U.S.
visas.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020042
