Descartes, the essential Enlightenment rationalist, was responsive to his “...call of
the Spirit...” Napier the inventor of logarithms wrote an exegetical commentary on
the Book of Revelations. The mathematician and physicist, Pascal, believing that
contact with a religious relic had cured his terminally ill sister, wrote long tracks
about whether or not the Devil could work miracles. The great mathematician,
Cauchy, was known for his persistent efforts to convert fellow mathematicians to
Roman Catholicism. Gauss, who was not particularly religious, said that a difficult to
prove theorem did not result from hard work but “...the grace of God.” In letters
between Liebniz, who along with Newton was the inventor of calculus, and a
member of the family of great mathematicians, John Bernoulli, used scriptural
quotations and biblical diagrams as part of their theoretical correspondence.
Perhaps the greatest mathematician of the 18 Century (or ever), Euler, in his
Letters to a German Princess, discussed the functional characteristics of spirits and

tt

the connections between body and soul. Bell said Euler “...never discarded a
particle of his Calvinist faith.”

It was to the working out of a law of mechanics called “the principle of least
action” that Ernst Mach attributed the beginning of the separation of physical
mechanics from formal theology. The flavor of this change is captured in his 1893
The Science of Mechanics that stimulated Bridgeman’s 1936 more formal
philosophical analyses of physical theory, from a position that came to be called
operationalism: the restriction of physical concepts to those definable in terms of the
experimental operations required to demonstrate or prove them. Mach said that
these events marked the move of formal metaphysical thinking about mechanics
and the physical sciences more generally into the personal and private realm of
belief and meaning.

Maupertuis, an eccentric friend of Frederick the Great and president of the
Berlin Academy, proposed the principle of least action as evidence of the infinite
wisdom of the Creator. As an early psychopharmacologist, Maupertuis
recommended the use of opium to facilitate creative thought and was famously
parodied for doing so by Voltaire in his 1752 story in which he is portrayed as the

naively foolish Dr. Akakia. The physical law of least action belongs to a set of ideas

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013513
