FP: You suggest that “mirroring” should be used as part of our arsenal. Tell us about it.

Siegel: Mirroring is a literal approach to transferring back to the addict responsibility that we have been
inappropriately accepting. Critical to the addict/enabler relationship is asymmetry. Like the addict, the enemy
uses a less limiting set of rules than we do. The enemy typically initiates aggression while we respond only.
Mirroring means that we demonstrate our willingness to act symmetrically, to be governed by the same rules.
It is stunning how much is accomplished when one’s attitude simply is clear that he will do what is necessary;
often not much else is needed as the addict or enemy realizes the game is fundamentally changed. But other
times action is absolutely needed. Demonstrating that we are not afraid to treat the enemy as it treats us carries
great meaning. Imagine (international law aside) if Israel announced that from now on it will mirror Hamas
such that if civilian populations are targeted by bombs from Gaza, Israel will do the same (it is accused of such
anyway). The population might finally rethink and take responsibility for its privilege of voting its leaders. As
stated earlier, all behavior is instructive and when we mirror we teach the other the effects of his behavior.

Conversely, some situations demand that we assert asymmetry; those cases where it is necessary to highlight
our differences with the enemy. Just this week, an disingenuous report was issued by an NGO drawing an
equivalence between Palestinian and Israe li schoolbooks claiming that both sides have their relativistic “
narratives.” Yet, as the Palestinian Media Watch’s website has demonstrated for years, there is nothing in the
West anywhere comparable to the hatred spewed daily by the Palestinian Authority, including through its
education system. It is interesting to note that while the US State Department initially funded the “study,”- in
what appears to be an attempt to sanitize the PA’s record so that the US can continue to fund the PA against
the spirit of US law- Hillary Clinton has a difficult time escaping her conclusion as Senator in 2007 that these
schoolbooks along with other media “profoundly poison(s) the minds of these children.” It is most important
that we do not succumb to this type of use of symmetry that distorts the profound differences between us and
the enemy.

Essentially, we are not clear as a nation, participating in a world with international rules, how to bes t fight this
enemy. The first act of any rehab is to acknowledge that we do not know how nor are we yet competent to
stop our addictions. This is not a book about policy. In fact, the “right” policies are unlikely to emerge until a
critical mass has meaningfully dealt with their Control Factors and share a common perspective. We like to
look at our history and assume a single perspective throughout but the truth is that we had to learn how to
respond to Pearl Harbor, the Nazis, the Cold War etc. The same applies here. Our press promotes “elites” who
are tasked with acting as if they possess the “true wisdom” to deal with our threats but the truth is we do not
know nor are we equipped to marshal enough of our population to agree just yet. The sooner we learn,
however, the less we will suffer. Mirroring has always been a key component of those lessons.

I have been encouraged by some recent acts that have begu n to nip at the asymmetry. For years, the language
of “feeling s” had been reserved for our enemy while we were limited to that of “action; we would do terrible
acts that would cause bad feelings in the enemy which would then serve to justify whatever response it

made. It had always been a question of the harsh insensitive acts Westerners do against Muslims and the
resulting hurt, loss, shame etc. that Muslims experience. The Ground Zero Mosque incident, however, broke
new ground because all of a sudden non-Muslims’ feelings became the focus and were cast as resulting from
Muslim acts. Another example was seen in how quickly the attempt to blame the Benghazi murders on

the video about Mohammad fell apart. Just as large corporations eventually learned to turn away from
shakedown attempts from race baiters, we are beginning to learn to demand symmetry through mirroring. A
word of caution: When enablers change their behavior and demand symmetrical rules f or the addict, the latter
typically initially erupts with great resistance. This is a stage we must be prepared to tolerate and fully
withstand as it creates the only real chance for the addict to finally change. It is critical, therefore, that when
we finally engage in mirroring that we be prepared to see it through completion.

FP: What if we fail to engage in our own Inner Jihad and the Control Factor stays firmly in place?

Siegel: Critical to the Inner Jihad is the realization that our civilization is fragile; not to be taken for granted.
Our demands for multi-culturalism and diversity have bumped heads with the simple paradox that tolerating
the intolerant leads to extinction. Tolerating the intolerant is perhaps the most crystalline version of asymmetry
we have accepted. Seriously engaged Muslims MUST place the Koran above all law while in America, the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024402
