286 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

had gained access to the lists of computers that the NSA had pen-
etrated in foreign countries. He even went so far as to describe to
these journalists the secrets that he had taken as a “single point of
failure” for the NSA. And aside from the documents he had copied,
he claimed that the secret knowledge in his head, if he disclosed it,
would wreak havoc on U.S. intelligence. “If I were providing infor-
mation that I know, that’s in my head, to some foreign government,
the US intelligence community would ...see sources go dark that
were previously productive,” he told the editor of The Guardian in
Moscow.

In short, he advertised possessing priceless data that the Rus-
sian intelligence services had been seeking, with little success, for
the past six decades. These electronic files could provide it with the
keys to unlock the NSA’s entire kingdom of electronic spying. Could
any world-class intelligence service ignore such a prize? To miss the
opportunity to get its hands on such a potential espionage source
would be nothing short of gross negligence.

In fact, this golden opportunity was not missed in Hong Kong.

© Even if the Russian intelligence service had not previously had ®
him in its sights—which, as discussed earlier, appears to me to be
extremely unlikely—he made contact with Russian officials in Hong
Kong, and Putin personally approved allowing Snowden to come to
Russia.

This decision made it possible for Snowden, without an entry
visa to Russia, or, for that matter, any other country, to check in
and board an Aeroflot flight to Moscow. We also know that a special
operation was mounted to take Snowden off the plane once it landed
in Moscow. Such an operation could not have been executed without
advance planning. Nor would he be removed from the plane without
a plan for his stay in Russia. Once Putin approved it, there is little
reason to doubt that the plans to get Snowden to Moscow, and what-
ever cover stories were deemed necessary to obscure them, had been
carried out professionally by Russia’s special services.

When an intelligence service makes such elaborate preparations
for extracting a foreign intelligence worker, it presumably also
expects to debrief him or her on arrival. Pelton, for example, who
had access to far less valuable information than had Snowden, was

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.indd 286 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019774
