capital of both North and South Cyprus, remains today as the last divided
city in Europe and the only divided capital in the world. However, the
Cyprus problem has to change face and move on from this conundrum
characterized by a relentlessly enduring state of conflict to an inspirational
success story of peace. Time is ripe for such a change, especially in view
of current dynamics that are molding together both on the island and in the
region.

Missed Opportunities

April 24, 2014 marked the 10th anniversary of the referenda held on the
UN Comprehensive Settlement Plan (the Annan Plan) on both sides of the
island. This was the first time in the history of Cyprus negotiations that a
comprehensive settlement document, comprising 9,000 pages, was put to
separate simultaneous referenda. The Turkish Cypriots accepted the plan
with an overwhelming majority (65 percent), despite the great sacrifices it
entailed for them. They did not only vote in favour of a solution, but also
for moving beyond the traumatic past and building a common future
within the EU through a new partnership with Greek Cypriots.
Unfortunately, the Plan failed due to the resounding ‘no’ vote (76 percent)
of the Greek Cypriots. Nevertheless, the Turkish Cypriot aspiration for a
solution has prevailed even in the face of deep frustration ensuing the
Greek Cypriot rejection of the Annan Plan and the continued isolation
imposed on Turkish Cypriots in all aspects of life. The fact that they have
been left out in the cold, while the Greek Cypriot side has unilaterally
become a member of the EU, did not change the Turkish Cypriots’ resolve
for settlement. Yet, it further complicated the prospects of reconciliation
on the island.

Thriving Opportunities from Within

Against this background, the Turkish Cypriot side has intensified its
endeavors to overcome this crisis of confidence and engaged sincerely
with the Greek Cypriot side for the preparation of the ground for a new
dialogue. Subsequently, the two sides were able to initiate a series of
agreements in early 2008, which paved the way for the resumption of full-
fledged negotiations after a four-year stalemate. Since then, intermittent

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031583
