*ERSON

sed since Epstein’s case first

Iled me,” said Krischer. “The
in being pulled into that con-
chief didn’t think the case was
a cop and I’m a prosecutor.”
torney’s office in 2009, is still a
» Commission in Palm Beach
5 volunteered one morning a
ymey and two mornings a week
Ps Office.

ld welfare issues, working with
ren and Families.

yernent with local law enforce-

el Reiter in years.

pstein filed suit, under Florida's
in, the jailed Ponzi king; Bradley

yrked, briefly, in Rothstein's law
eral of Epstein’s victims, andone ~
al referred to in the lawsuit a5 ©

lief,” the suit stated, “EDWARDS %
that ROTHSTEIN was utilizing 5
Ponzi scheme and/or were sellin: 5
mt in the Civil Actions (and other

e suit also claimed that, “By 4S 6

_ Support Epstein’s claims and is completely and consistently cor-

Firruy Ricw

Civil Actions against EPSTEIN as ‘bait’ and fabricating settle-
ments regarding same, ROTHSTEIN and others were able to lure
investors into ROTHSTEIN'S lair and bilked them of millions of
dollars which, in turn, was used to fund the litigation against
EPSTEIN for the sole purpose of continuing the massive Ponzi
scheme.”

Moreover, the suit claimed, L.M. had “testified she never had
sex with Epstein; worked at numerous strip clubs; is an admitted
prostitute and call girl; has a history of illegal drug use (pot,
painkillers, Xanax, Ecstasy); and continually asserted the 5th
Amendment during her depositions in order to avoid answering
relevant but problem questions for her.” (The suit made similar
claims about two other victims.) According to the suit, L.M. had
said only good things about Epstein when interviewed by the
FBI in 2007, while being represented by another lawyer. Her
story “changed dramatically,” the suit claimed, once she was “in
the hands of EDWARDS and RRA.”

In a motion for summary judgment filed by Bradley Edwards,
Edwards denied all of these allegations, calling Epstein’s claims
frivolous for two separate reasons: On the one hand, Edwards
claimed, Epstein was seeking damages from Edwards while
asserting his own Fifth Amendment privilege to block the dis-
covery of relevant facts. (And, in fact, Epstein did plead the Fifth,
dozens of times, when deposed by the lawyers of his victims.)
On the other hand, Epstein’s claims were “directly contradicted
by all of the record evidence.

“The truth in the record is entirely devoid of any evidence to

_ toborative of Edwards's sworn assertion of innocence,” the motion

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022176
