accidental intrusion of a campus security officer, the brilliantly eccentric Northern
California mathematician, Ralph Abraham, was famously arrested for pot smoking.
The campus officer told me that, late one night, thinking he had smelled fire, he
used his master key to make an unwelcome entrance. The incident became part of
the record in House of Commons hearings about the intellectual and moral decay of
English Universities. Apparently, even among English intellectuals, there were trivial
and politicized definitions of virtue.

Christopher Zeeman, the head of the Mathematics Institute was a world-
class topologist who, among other things, demonstrated biological and social-
psychological applications of Rene Thom’s Catastrophe Theory. | was invited as a
brain person and amateur mathematician, to see what might result from mixing me
with members of his fine mathematics faculty. In addition to learning some
bifurcation and lots of ergodic (statistical) theory, my chats with Christian and
Jewish mathematicians on Saturday and Sunday morning visits to the synagogues
and chapels of Oxford and Cambridge introduced me to an English intellectual’s
religious tradition. The spirit of C.S. Lewis was still very much alive. Surprising,
however, was that more than a few of these scholars had the elements of Christian
faith in full menu: virgin birth, incarnation, crucifixion, resurrection, original sin and
the promise of salvation. | was disabused of my belief that these elements of
Christian belief were incompatible with high mental capacity and _ intellectual
sophistication.

Yet, the spiritual climate of these English intellectual Christians were different
from today’s post, post Vietnam return of the religious themes of the turn of the
Twentieth Century, big tent revivalism and Billy Sunday’s brand of Christian patriotic
America. Today’s religious patriotism infuses George W. Bush’s Republican base,
National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice’s after dinner hymns and Attorney
General John Ashcroft’s early morning bible study groups for his Assistant Attorney
Generals. Even the most religious of my English math buddies are without what
seems like adventitious baggage of today’s faith based Republicans: the belief in
the immorality and godlessness of teaching evolution in schools, what has been

called the massacre of the innocents in stem cell research and abortion clinics, the

171

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013671
