ACKR
PI

L
- A L

BL
TA CHAPTER Ill Cannabis Industry Segmentation

Distribution Services

Distribution services is emerging as a prominent subsegment of the cannabis industry; services in this
subsegment include wholesale distribution of cannabis products to retailers and production inter-
mediaries, as well as related transportation and logistics services. Historically, a high percentage of
product manufacturers have sold directly to retail dispensaries, and some of those manufacturers with
established “in-house” distribution channels are now leveraging their experience to offer distribution
services to third-party manufacturers.

Currently, distribution activities must be conducted only intrastate, and providers of distribution
services must comply with regulations related to “touching the plant,” including testing and tax-
collection requirements. As laws are changed to allow more interstate and international transportation,
purchasers will be able to compare products and prices on a national or international basis, and dis-
tributors who provide superior product selections and transportation logistics should have significant
competitive advantage.

Distribution Opportunities
We believe opportunities in this segment include:

E-Commerce Distribution. The ability to accept electronic orders and deliver cannabis products
on demand represents an attractive distribution channel and growth opportunity. Companies that
provide digital retail platforms for cannabis products will benefit as consumers migrate to e-commerce
transactions.

Branded and Vertically Integrated Dispensaries. We believe that consumers will ultimately con-
centrate their purchases with a small group of branded dispensaries that provide a distinct, consistent
and trusted retail experience and offer supporting e-commerce solutions. Dispensaries that integrate
vertically to offer their own branded products should achieve superior margins on those products.

High-profile Retail Locations. We see an opportunity for cannabis dispensaries to attract signifi-
cantly more customers by establishing storefronts in malls and other high-profile retail locations.

“Land Grab” of Desirable Locations. Companies able to navigate the licensing and real estate chal-
lenges required to secure and operate multiple dispensaries in desirable locations should benefit from
existing high barriers to entry and capture significant market share.

Distribution Challenges
Challenges in this segment include:

Customer Acquisition and Retention. Like e-commerce businesses in other industries, providers of
e-commerce solutions in the cannabis industry face intense competition for customers who can easily
change vendor loyalties. Companies will be challenged to minimize customer acquisition costs and
retain customers.

Restrictive and Changing Regulations. Obtaining a state dispensary license or other type of dis-
tribution permit typically involves a multi-month application process that requires the applicant to
demonstrate compliance with complex criteria. In addition to state laws and regulations, dispensaries

© 2017 Ackrell Capital, LLC | Member FINRA/SIPC 43

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024679
