4.2.12
WC: 191694

were mitror image round stains on all four surfaces, which means that the blood flowed through
the flattened sock while it was not being worn. Had it been splattered while being worn, there
would have been mirror image stains only on two surfaces—the outside and the inside of the part
that was splattered, but not on the two other surfaces which would have been blocked by the
wearer’s leg. The jurors were convinced by this and other evidence that the police had dripped
the blood from vials onto the sock to make it appear that the sock Simpson was wearing during
the murders had been splattered with blood at the crime scene. This led the jurors to believe that
the police were trying to frame Simpson for a murder they honestly believed he had committed,
and that the veracity of their testimony and other evidence could not be trusted. They acquitted
Simpson of killings for which a subsequent civil jury (with different lawyers) found him financially
liable.

My expertise in the science of disproving murder had been at the center of my earlier famous case
involving Claus Von Bulow. Von Bulow’s original trial lawyers were not able effectively to
challenge the prosecution’s evidence that Sonny Von Bulow’s coma was caused by an injection of
insulin, that high levels of insulin were found in Sonny’s blood, that traces of insulin were found
on a needle in a bag that belonged to her husband Claus, and that a vial of injectable insulin had
been found in Claus’ bag by Sonny’s maid. On appeal, and in a motion for new trial based on
newly discovered evidence, we disproved each of these pillars of the prosecution case. We
demonstrated through our own experts that Sonny’s coma was caused by the oral ingestion of
barbiturates, rather than by an injection of insulin; that there were no high levels of insulin in
Sonny’s blood; that the alleged traces of insulin on the needle was the result of a false positive
reading; and that the maid could not have seen a vial of insulin in Claus’ bag. The Rhode Island
Supreme Court reversed the conviction and ordered a new trial at which the jury, after hearing the
new scientific evidence, quickly acquitted Claus Von Bulow.

The book and film Reversal of Fortune had brought the issue of scientific defenses to a wide
public audience, and I had become the “go to” lawyer in such cases. This reputation brought me
several new cases, one of which bore an eerie resemblance to the Von Bulow case.

183

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017270
