145

him from releasing U.S. intelligence data. The alternative is that this material was released at the behest of
the Russian intelligence service.

The mystery of the post Hong Kong documents also intrigued members in the US intelligence
community with whom I discussed it. When I asked a former intelligence executive about the
ultimate source for the Merkel story, he responded: “If Snowden didn’t give journalists this
document in Hong Kong, we can assume an intermediary fed it to Appelbaum to publish in Der
Spiegel?” According to him, the NSA investigation had determined that Snowden indeed had
copied a NSA list of cell phone numbers of foreign leaders, including the number of Merkel. This
list became the basis of the Der Spiege/ story. It was also clear that Snowden in Moscow gave
credence to the release. He made a major point about the hacking of Merkel’s phone in an
interview with Wired magazine in 2014. Just about two weeks before the leak, Kucherena said
Snowden still had access to the documents. Clearly, someone had access. But whoever was
behind it, the release of information about the alleged bugging Merkel’s phone resulted in badly
fraying US relations with Germany in the midst of developing troubles in Ukraine. As it later
turned, according to the investigation of the German federal prosecutor concluded in 2015, there
was no evidence found in this document, or elsewhere, that Merkel’s calls were ever actually
intercepted. Although they revealed little, if anything, the intelligence services of Germany,
France and Israel were not already aware of, they raised a public outcry in allies against NSA
surveillance, and the outcry became the event itself.

While these post-Hong Kong documents had little, if any, intelligence value, they provided
further evidence that at least part of the stolen NSA documents was in the hands of a party hostile
to the United States. Ifso, it wasn’t much of a leap to assume that this party also had access to
the far more valuable Level 3 documents revealing the NSA’s sources and methods, such as the
one that Ledgett had described as a “road map” to U.S. electronic espionage against Russia and
China.

Within the intelligence community, this concern was heightened by new counter measure to this
espionage employed by Russia and China after Snowden reached Moscow. For example, there
were indications that the NSA had lost part of its capabilities to follow Russian troop movements
in the Crimea and Eastern Ukraine. U.S. intelligence officials even went so far as to suggest,
according to a report in the Wall Street Journal that “ Russian planners might have gotten a jump
on the West by evading U.S. eavesdropping.”

. Britain also discovered that some of its secret operations had been compromised after Snowden

went to Moscow. According to a 2015 story in the Sunday Times of London, British intelligence
had determined that Britain’s intelligence- gathering sources had been exposed to adversary
services by documents that Snowden had stolen from the NSA in 2013. These documents had
been provided to the NSA by the GCHQ, the British cipher service. Unless such intelligence
disasters were freak aberrations, it appeared to confirm General Alexander warning in 2014 that
the NSA was “losing some of its capabilities, because they’re being disclosed to our adversaries.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020297
