China continues to suffer from
considerable excess capacity in

industrial sectors, such as steel and
coal, while its financial sector risks

have increased.

Russia

Russia is also slowly recovering from a
deep recession. Although the economy
contracted for its second consecutive year
in 2016, headwinds are now receding
thanks to a recovery in real wages,

rising oil prices and a related increase in
oil production. The economy has also

Brazil

Brazil has had its share of hard times in recent
years. After being among the fastest-growing
economies in the world in 2010, it has more
recently suffered its worst recession in a

century, evident in seven consecutive quarters of
contraction. In turn, GDP fell an estimated 3.3%
last year, leaving it on par with 2010 levels. Even
worse, industrial production now stands where it
did in 2004.

Fortunately, there are already tentative signs
of a recovery. Inflation has peaked; the current
account deficit has shrunk; and confidence
indicators, while still weak, have stabilized. Of
equal importance, the financial markets have
welcomed a new government amid expectations
that it will finally tackle Brazil’s fiscal problems
and steer the economy out of recession.

But despite these promising green shoots,
our base case does not call for a robust recovery
in 2017. While the new administration is off to
a promising start, it is facing resistance to key
structural reforms while also navigating ongoing
corruption probes. Moreover, the recovery in
household consumption and business investment
is likely to be hamstrung by continuing high real
interest rates, a function of falling inflation and a
simultaneously easing central bank. Meanwhile,
fiscal policy will continue to tighten given a
new spending cap and proposed pension reform
measures. Finally, the modest commodity price
gains we expect are unlikely to foster a meaningful
rise in exports for Brazil. Accordingly, we expect
a tepid recovery, with GDP expanding just
0-1% in 2017.

received support from both fiscal and

monetary policy, with the central bank
cutting the policy rate by 100 basis points last
year as inflation moderated. Still, the economy has
likely suffered some permanent damage from the
combination of depressed oil prices and Western
sanctions, which have pushed down Russia’s long-
run growth potential.

While the cyclical recovery should continue in
2017, it is apt to be measured. The government is
planning to reduce the fiscal deficit by 1% of GDP
this year, which will limit fiscal support. That said,
elections in March 2018 could ultimately temper
such fiscal prudence. Meanwhile, the central bank
will likely deliver more rate cuts, but their size and
pace will depend on the path of inflation, which
could be stickier than anticipated.

Against this uncertain backdrop, we expect the
Russian economy to return to modest growth in
2017, expanding 0.5-1.5%. While not our base
case, growth could quicken if oil prices increase
more than we expect or if sanctions are lifted.

Outlook | Investment Strategy Group 47

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014580
