126 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

ies. The holders of this darker view of Snowden base it on classified
reports of the full extent of the theft of classified data. Those officials
believe that only a handful of the tens of thousands of documents he
stole involved domestic surveillance and that those few documents
served as a cover for a much larger theft.

Admiral Michael Rogers, who replaced General Alexander as
head of the NSA in March 2014, said at a public forum at Princeton
University, “Edward Snowden is not the ‘whistleblower’ some have
labeled him to be.” He further explained to Congress, “Snowden
stole from the United States government a large amount of classi-
fied information, a small portion of which is germane to his apparent
central argument regarding NSA and privacy issues.”

General Martin Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
went even further. In testifying before the House Armed Services
Committee on March 6, 2014, after estimating that the Snowden
breach could cost the military “billions” to repair, he added, “The
vast majority of the electronic documents that Snowden exfiltrated
from our highest levels of security had nothing to do with exposing

© government oversight of domestic activities.” Dempsey based this ®
assessment on a then still-secret Defense Intelligence Agency report
on the breach. The classified DIA report showed that Snowden took
“over 900,000” military files from the Department of Defense in
addition to the NSA files he had taken. The Defense Department
loss in terms of the number of files stolen actually exceeded the
loss—in sheer numbers—of NSA documents. Lieutenant General
Mike Flynn, the DIA director who directed the study, testified to the
Senate Select Committee on Intelligence that the breach “has caused
grave damage to our national security.”

To be sure, this was not the first time that the cryptological
branches of the military had been compromised. The spy ring of John
Walker had provided thousands of the navy’s reports on breaking
Russian ciphers to the KGB during the Cold War. But the Snowden
breach exposing military sources was an order of magnitude greater
than any past breach.

The CIA’s assessment was no less grim. Morell, the deputy director
of the CIA in 2013, wrote that Snowden’s action went beyond taking
the handful of documents, such as the FISA order, “that addressed

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 126 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019614
