for the Trump Organization records: it was a deep and encompassing order,
reaching many years back.

Kushner also warned his father-in-law that the investigation was about
to spill over from the Mueller team, with its narrow focus on Russian collu-
sion, to the Southern District of New York—that is, the federal prosecutor's
office in Manhattan—which would not be restricted to the Russia probe. This
was a work-around intended to circumvent the special counsel's restriction
to Russia-related matters, but also an effort by the Mueller team to short-
circuit any attempt by the president to disband or curtail its investiga-
tion. By moving parts of the investigation to the Southern District, Mueller,
as Kushner explained to Trump, was ensuring that the investigation of the
president would continue even without the special counsel. Mueller was
playing a canny, or ass-protecting, game, while also following precise pro-
cedures: even as he focused on the limited area of his investigation, he was
divvying up evidence of other possible crimes and sending it out to other
jurisdictions, all of which were eager to be part of the hunt.

It gets worse, Kushner told Trump.

The Southern District was once run by Trump's friend Rudy Giuliani,
the former mayor of New York. In the 1980s, when Giuliani was the federal
prosecutor—and when, curiously, James Comey had worked for him—
the Southern District became the premier prosecutor of the Mafia and of
Wall Street. Giuliani had pioneered using a draconian, and many believed
unconstitutional, interpretation of the RICO (Racketeer Influenced and
Corrupt Organizations) Act against the Mob. He used the same interpre-
tation against big finance, and in 1990 the threat of a RICO indictment,
under which the government could almost indiscriminately seize assets,
brought down the investment bank Drexel Burnham Lambert.

The Southern District had long been worrisome to Trump. After his
election, he had an unseemly meeting with Preet Bharara, the federal pros-
ecutor there, a move whose optics were alarming to all of his advisers,
including Don McGahn and the incoming attorney general, Jeff Sessions.
(The meeting foreshadowed the one Trump would shortly have with
Comey, during which he sought a pledge of loyalty in return for job secu-
rity.) His meeting with Bharara was unsatisfactory: Bharara was unwill-

SIEGE : 19

ing to humor him—or, shortly, even to return his calls. In March 2017,
Trump fired him.

Now, said Kushner, even without Bharara, the Southern District was
looking to treat the Trump Organization as a Mob-like enterprise; its law-
yers would use the RICO laws against it and go after the president as if he
were a drug lord or Mob don. Kushner pointed out that corporations had
no Fifth Amendment privilege, and that you couldn't pardon a corpora-
tion. As well, assets used in or derived from the commission of a crime
could be seized by the government.

In other words, of the more than five hundred companies and separate
entities in which Donald Trump had been an officer, up until he became
president, many might be subject to forfeiture. One potential casualty of
a successful forfeiture action was the president's signature piece of real
estate: the government could seize Trump Tower.

+t 4

In mid-March, a witness with considerable knowledge of the Trump
Organization's operations traveled by train to Washington to appear before
the Mueller grand jury. Picked up at Union Station by the FBI, the wit-
ness was driven to the federal district court. From 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.,
two prosecutors on the Mueller team, Aaron Zelinsky and Jeannie
Rhee, reviewed with the witness, among other issues, the structure of the
Trump Organization.

The prosecutors asked the witness about the people who regularly
talked to Trump, how often they met with him, and for what purposes.
They also asked how meetings with Trump were arranged and where they
took place. The witness’s testimony yielded, among other useful pieces of
information, a signal fact: all checks issued by the Trump Organization
were personally signed by Donald Trump himself.

The Trump Organization's activities in Atlantic City were a particular
subject of interest that day. The witness was asked about Trump’s rela-
tionship with known Mafia members—not if he had such relationships,
but the nature of the relationships prosecutors already knew existed. The
prosecutors also wanted to know about Trump Tower Moscow, a project

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021133
