Do the two sides on Cyprus have political will? Does Turkey want a
settlement? Is Greece prepared for a deal that might trigger a larger deal
with Turkey over the Aegean and Thrace issues? Of these questions only
one element is affirmative; Turkish Cypriots want a settlement. In 2004,
they not only demonstrated simultaneous referenda, but repeated polls
have shown since then that the pro-settlement resolve of Turkish Cypriots
is over 65 percent. Greek Cypriots? Polls show a decreasing 41 percent are
receptive to the idea of resolution, less than 30 want federation. Officially,
both Greece and Turkey support a compromise deal on Cyprus. How
sincere are they? Last time, in 2004, despite all of the pledges made
before, Greece eventually could not support a plan for resolution. Will it
support a compromise deal this time? Let us hope it will. Turkey will
support any deal supported by Turkish Cypriots, provided it somehow
maintains a presence on the island. Why should it not, after all, if Britain,
a country far away, has two sovereign bases just because it was the
previous colonial power? Was it not Turkey that leased the island to
Greece?

International actors all keep on vowing to support a deal on Cyprus. Why
would the British want a settlement knowing that despite the recent
agreement it signed in haste with the Greek Cypriots, British bases on
Cyprus will be the next and joint target for all Cypriots if ever they resolve
their bilateral quagmire? Russians would not want a resolution either.
Why should they? To upset their peculiar position as the major energy
supplier of Europe, (particularly) to Germany? Or to render life even more
difficult to the Russian population and collaborators engaged in bleaching
business?

Why would Americans support a compromise deal if they benefit more
from the British bases on the divided Cyprus? The upcoming visit of
American Vice President Joe Biden this week and the anticipated visit to
the island within weeks by Secretary of State John Kerry of course
demonstrate an interest in the Cyprus problem. A visit by a U.S. vice
president — the first in 52 years — of course will be meaningful.

Plans to ease European energy dependency on Russia might play a role for
an accelerated demand for a Cyprus deal push. Don’t the Americans know

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031581
