These claims led to the rather dreamy-eyed utopian conclusion that “Just as ‘wars begin in the
minds of men’, peace also begins in our minds. The same species who invented war is capable of
inventing peace. The responsibility lies with each of us.” In essence, understanding our biology will not
contribute to understanding violence and war because we invented war as well as peace, woven out of
nurture’s cloth and her infinite tapestry of cultural potential. These kinds of claims about the role of
biology in human behavior are at best incoherent, and at worst plain wrong. They are also dangerous
because they imply a view of human nature that is infinitely plastic, unconstrained by both universal
features of our biology, as well as individual differences that predispose some to extreme violence and
others to extreme altruism.

What makes the Seville Statement, and other claims like it incoherent is a set of false attributions
to biologists about the role of biology. Statements 2-5 are accurate in that it is incorrect to say that war or
violence are genetically programmed, subject to stronger selection than other kinds of behaviour, built
into the brain as a violent brain, and based on instinct with a single, inevitable output. But I don’t know
any biologists who believe statements like these. The biologist Peter Marler famously spoke of singing in
birds as an instinct to learn, while the evolutionary psychologist Steven Pinker described the Chomskyan
insight into language as the /anguage instinct. A bird’s instinct to learn does not mean that there is a one-
to-one, inflexible mapping between genes or brain circuits and a specific type of song. All songbirds have
the potential to acquire their species’ song, and in some birds, such as mockingbirds and parrots, this
capacity extends to acquiring the sounds of other animals and even inanimate sounds. But if there is no
input at all, or if the bird is deafened, the output is deficient in structure, unrecognizable as a species-
specific song. The same holds for the language instinct. Instincts are biological biases that constrain the
range of potential variation. Biology differentiates songbirds from birds that don’t learn their songs. This
same biology allows some birds to learn one song and use it for life, and allows other birds to acquire a
variety of different sounds for use in singing. The biology doesn’t determine the specific content ofa
song. The content is determined by what the bird hears, constrained by what its bird brain and syrinx will
process and reproduce. To a large extent, language is no different. Our biology allows us, but not any
other species, to acquire language. This same biology sets up constraints, due in part to what our brains
can keep in memory, what our ears can hear, and what our larynx can produce. Like songbirds, the
specific content of what we say, whether with a French or Vietnamese accent, is determined by where we
live and who we listen to.

If there is any intelligible sense of genetically programmed or instinct, whether for violence,
language, sex, or mathematics, it is that our biology provides us with the capacity to acquire these
domains of knowledge and expression. This doesn’t mean that violence, language, sex or mathematics are

inevitable or fixed in their expression. There are thousands of languages, ways of having sex, and forms

Hauser Chapter 1. Nature’s secrets 41

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012787
