42 The Virgin Islands Daily News

SPORTS

Friday, November 9, 2012

Boras: Dodgers ‘bought store,’ Mets ‘in freezer’

Daily News Photo by TIM CHAPMAN

ivanna Eudora Kean High School volleyball player Chantell Grant goes up
for a kill in the Lady Rays’ 3-1 home win over the Ss. Peter & Paul Lady

Jaguars on Thursday.

ql
Retrigerator

Dryer

Rariges

OOKTONS

as Stove
Stainless Steel —
npliances

Best Savings In Town!
| Furniture
PLUS

340-777-1288

Across from
Charlotte Amalie High School

VOLLEYBALL

CONTINUED FROMTHE BACK PAGE _

the ball over her own head and just
inside the out-of-bounds antenna
The ball dropped imtouched in the
center of the Ss. Peter and Paul half

The Lady Jags struggled to for-
get about such points and assis-
tant coach Ronald Blyden noted
that emotion is the team’s biggest
issue. Blyden was filling in for
head coach Gigi Quetel, who was
unable to attend the game.

“They have their issues and.

their problems — I understand
that — but they feed off of each
other negatively, unfortunately,”
Blyden said. “But they are gifted,
that’s for sure. That’s one of the
reasons I’m sticking with them
and I don’t want to leave.”

Kean (7-3) will try to transfer
its energy over to St. Croix today
and Saturday at the Educational
Complex Invitational. Coach
Jennifer Matthias hopes to see
more consistency out of her
team, especially Grant.

“She brings a lot of energy, but
sometimes her energy is in her

_ mouth, cheering. But I need more

of her energy to go into playing
more on the court,” Matthias said.

“They love to cheer and make
that kind of noise, but I wish they
had that energy also when they're
playing the ball. They’re a good
group of girls, but sometimes
they get sidetracked.”

— Contact reporter Tim
Chapman at 714-9102 or
tchapman@dailynews.vi.

By RONALD BLUM
The Associated Press

INDIAN WELLS, Calif. — With
baseball awash in record revenue as the
signing season starts, Scott Boras com-
pares the habits of teams to families
sifting through supermarket shelves.

At the winter meetings in Dallas last
year, the agent had this to say of the
financially troubled Los Angeles
Dodgers and New York Mets:
“Normally, they’re in the steaks sec-
tion, and] found them in the fruits-and-
nuts category a let.”

Since then, the Dodgers have been
sold for $2 billion. The Mets owners
have agreed to pay up to $162 million
— and likely much less — in a deal
with the trustee for Bernard Madoff’s
fraud victims.

So on Wednesday at the general
managers’ meeting, Boras said his view
of the Dodgers had changed. -

“| think they bought the store,” he
said.

And as for the Mets?

“The best you can say is that they
might be in the freezer section,” he

FOOTBALL

CONTINUED FROMTHE BACK PAGE

against Charlotte Amalie High
School in mid-October, but rebound-
ed with a 46-0 win over Central High
on St. Croix before last week’s bye.

“We havea lot of senior leadership,”
Neely said, “so really these guys gov-
em themselves — guys like Nathan
Braithwaite, our quarterback.”

Braithwaite, a senior, has found
Cilliers and senior receivers Omar
Henderson and Lucas Berry on
touchdown passes.

Kean High sophomore quarterback

explained. “But there’s a lot of good,
longstanding products that they can
acquire there.”

Slugger Josh Hamilton and pitcher
Zack Greinke are among the top play-
ers in a relatively weak free-agent class
that also includes outfielders B.J.
Upton, Michael Bourn, Torii Hunter
and Nick Swisher; first baseman Adam
LaRoche; and pitchers Kyle Lohse and
Rafael Sonano. :

Baseball estimates revenue this year
at $2.5 billion — an increase of about
$500 million. National television con-
tracts with Fox and Turner that run
from 2014-21 will double the average
yearly money baseball receives to
about $800 million.

And perhaps the biggest evidence of
basebail’s wealth is franchise values -~
the Dodgers sold for $2 billion this

Shunnel Greenaway must exhibit
more poise to give his team a
chance.

Greenaway looked sharp in the
first half of last week’s 36-10 loss to
CAHS, but the offense sputtered
down the stretch.

“I’m trying to keep him to main-
tain focus and be patient,” Donovan
said. “When he was patient in the
first half ofthe game, we were mov-
ing the bail. Everything doesn’t have
to be deep. Every pass doesn’t have
to be a touchdown right away. He’s
only 16 years old, so sometimes he
gets too excited and gets away from

Local Briefs

year in a bankruptcy court auction and
the lowly San Diego Padres were
bought for $800 million.

Since the Dodgers were bought last
spring by a group headed by Mark
Walter, Stan Kasten and Magic
Johnson, they increased their payroll
by about $35 million, adding infielder
Hanley Ramirez, first baseman Adrian
Gonzalez, closer Brandon League,
pitcher Josh Beckett and outfielder Carl
Crawford.

The Dodgers’ payroll next year
might approach or surpass that of the
New York Yankees, who have topped
spending every year since Los Angeles
edged them by $1 million in 200).

New York is vowing to cut its payroll
by 2014 because of changes in the col-
lective bargaining agreement that will
cut the team’s revenue-sharing bill if it
doesn’t wind up paying a luxury tax.

Infielder Maicer lztuns became the
first major league free agent to switch
teams this offseason, agreeing to a $10
million, three-year contract with the
Toronto Blue Jays. The 32-year-old hit
256 with 17 steals in 19 mies, two hom-
exs and 20 RBIs this year for the Angels.

the pace of the game.”

Greenaway’s protection will not
come easy. Cilliers had two sacks and
recovered a fumble to lead the
Arawaks defense in the first meeting.

If the Arawaks win tonight and
defeat CAHS (4-0) next week, both
teams will have one loss. CAHS is
idle the following week, and the
Arawaks finish against struggling St.
Croix Educational Complex.

In the case of a tie in the final reg-
ular season standings, point differen-
tial will determine which team quali-
fies for the territory championship on
Dec. 8.

Basketball clinics

ST. CROIX — The Sports, Parks and Recreation
Department will conduct after-school basketball clinics at
Rudy Krigger Ballpark in Sion Farm every Wednesday
through Dec. 19.

The clinics are geared toward teaching youths the fimda-
mentals of basketball and are for children ages 7 through 12.
Free 1egistration is from | p.m. to 6 p.m. at Krigger Ballpark.
For more information, cail Carita Stevens at 773-0160.

“s

St. Thomas Yacht Club race, fundraiser

ST. THOMAS — The St. Thomas Yacht Club is host-
ing a race and pig roast on Dec. 15 to benefit the club’s
youth sailing program. :

The $40 entrance fee includes two tickets per boat for
the pig roast following the race. Sailors of all ages are
welcome, and the race is open to IC-24s, Racers, Cruising
boats and any boat 24 feet or longer.

Trophies and gift certificates will be presented to the
top three boats. The race will start 8:55 a.m., but skippers
will meet at 8 a.m. The event is sponsored by Scotiabank
and Budget Marine.

For more information, contact the club at 775-6320.

Basketball clinic

ST. CROIX — The USVI Department of Sports, Parks
and Recreation, the Department of Tourism and the
Paradise Jam Organization will host a basketball clinic

from 9:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. on Monday at Central High
School’s Ronald Charles Gymnasium.

The clinic will be conducted by Nels Hawkinson, the
president and executive director of Basketball Travelers
Inc., and is for boys and girls between the ages of 8 and
18. BTI organizes the Paradise Jam and other college and
high school tournaments around the world. Hawkinson
will be joined by colleague Craig Jonas.

Participants will receive Paradise Jam posters and T-
shirts and have a chance to win complimentary tickets to
the tournament, which begins Nov. 16.

Rugby practice

ST. THOMAS — The USVI Rugby Football Union
practices on Tuesdays and Thursdays every week from 6-
8 p.m. at Charlotte Amalie High School. Veterans, novic-
es and first-time players are all welcome to participate.

The group is training for upcoming scrimmages with
the BVI and other down-island teams. For details, email
Dan Perez at usvirugby@gmailcom, visit their web site
at www.usvirugby.org or call 941-565-0031.

After-school junior tennis program

ST. CROLX — Tennis pros Don de Wilde and Kristopher
Elien is running an after-school junior tennis program
through Christmas at the Buccaneer Hotel for players
between the ages of 5 to 18. For more information, or to
ask about times, costs or registration, call 718-3036.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018865
