isolate him from danger. “It’s not my deal. He’s got the five geniuses around him:
Jarvanka, Hope Hicks, Dina Powell, and Josh Raffel.” He threw up his hands again, this
time as if to say Hands off. “I know no Russians, I don’t know nothin’ about nothin’. ’m
not being a witness. I’m not hiring a lawyer. It is not going to be my ass in front of a
microphone on national TV answering questions. Hope Hicks is so fucked she doesn’t
even know it. They are going to lay her out. They’re going to crack Don Junior like an egg
on national TV. Michael Cohen, cracked like an egg. He’—the president—‘said to me
everybody would take that Don Junior meeting with the Russians. I said, ‘Everybody
would not take that meeting.’ I said, ‘I’m a naval officer. ’'m not going to take a meeting
with Russian nationals, and do it in headquarters, are you fucking insane?’ and he says,
“But he’s a good boy.’ There were no meetings like that after I took over the campaign.”

Bannon’s tone veered from ad absurdum desperation to resignation.

“If he fires Mueller it just brings the impeachment quicker. Why not, let’s do it. Let’s
get it on. Why not? What am I going to do? Am I going to go in and save him? He’s
Donald Trump. He’s always gonna do things. He wants an unrecused attorney general. I
told him if Jeff Sessions goes, Rod Rosenstein goes, and then Rachel Brand’—the
associate attorney general, next in line after Rosenstein—“goes, we’ll be digging down
into Obama career guys. An Obama guy will be acting attorney general. I said you’re not
going to get Rudy’—Trump had again revived a wish for his loyalists Rudy Giuliani or
Chris Christie to take the job—‘“because he was on the campaign and will have to recuse
himself, and Chris Christie, too, so those are masturbatory fantasies, get those out of your
brain. And, for anybody to get confirmed now, they are going to have to swear and ensure
that things will go ahead and they won’t fire anybody, because you said yesterday—Ehhh
... ehhh ... .ehhh!—‘my family finances are off limits,’ and they’re going to demand that,
whoever he is, he promises and commits to make the family finances part of this
investigation. I told him as night follows day that’s a lock, so you better hope Sessions
stays around.”

“He was calling people in New York last night asking what he should do,” added
Preate. (Almost everybody in the White House followed Trump’s thinking by tracking
whom he had called the night before.)

Bannon sat back and, with steam-rising frustration—almost a cartoon figure—he
outlined his Clinton-like legal plan. “They went to the mattresses with amazing discipline.
They ground through it.” But that was about discipline, he emphasized, and Trump, said
Bannon, noting the obvious, was the least disciplined man in politics.

It was clear where Mueller and his team were going, said Bannon: they would trace a
money trail through Paul Manafort, Michael Flynn, Michael Cohen, and Jared Kushner
and roll one or all of them on the president.

It's Shakespearean, he said, enumerating the bad advice from his family circle: “It’s the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020095
