isolated, disconnected, and like one
doesn’t belong.

In terms of emotional health, the
prospect for lonely people is increasing
misery, at least over the short term.
Loneliness and depressed affect tend to
be thought of as synonymous, but the
two are conceptually and empirically
distinct. If loneliness and depression
were synonymous, increases in
loneliness would have no capacity to
predict increases in depressive
symptoms because increases in one
would be exactly paralleled by increases
in the other. Instead, longitudinal data
have shown that loneliness predicts an
increase in depressive symptoms but
depressive symptoms do not predict an
increase in loneliness over a one-year
interval.’ Importantly, the influence of
loneliness on depressive symptoms was
not attributable to fewer social
connections, general negativity, stress,
or poor social support. These data
suggest that the relevant intervention
target is loneliness, and that modifying
the cognitions, perceptions, and
expectations of the lonely individual
could help improve quality of life and
overall well-being.

Social Connectedness: Invisible Forces
Made Visible

At this juncture, having become
acquainted with the burden of loneliness,
it is helpful to remember that most
people, most of the time, feel socially
connected. They derive satisfaction and
meaning from their social relationships
and this makes them happier and more
satisfied with life. Interestingly,
happiness leads to higher levels of
relationship satisfaction, indicating that
happiness and relationship satisfaction
feed forward to foster spirals of
increasing happiness and relationship
satisfaction. The general positivity that

?

Page |46

ensues from happiness is also apparent
in the effects of happiness on income.
Happiness predicted increases in
household income over a 2-year period
in middle-aged adults. However,
relationship satisfaction also predicted
increases in household income over this
time period and, remarkably,
relationship satisfaction helped to
explain the effect of happiness on
income. It seems that happy people
experience increases in income in part
because of the general good will that
surrounds the socially contented
individual and that elicits tangible and
intangible positivity from others.

It is perhaps precisely because
most people feel socially connected and
happy that we take for granted the
invisible force of social connectedness
and its stabilizing and nurturing
influence in all aspects of life. Only in
its absence do we begin to comprehend
its power. Western notions of the
autonomous individual notwithstanding,
human beings are “wired” for social
connections and need social bonds to
feel safe, valued, motivated, and
competent.'* Among the lamentations
expressed by some in Western societies
is a concern that our autonomy and
independence come at the expense of
meaningful social relationships and a
sense of belonging to a larger social unit.
Family members are no longer
obligatorily part of our social
community, while Facebook friends,
some of whom we know only through
electronic media, are deemed essential to
fulfilling our need for a sense of
connectedness and belonging.’* The
broadening of our social worlds has not
been accompanied by maintenance,
much less improvement, of the quality of
our social relationships. One national
study showed a threefold increase

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021292
