_ Declassified by order of the President
January 18, 2018 February 2, 2018

To: HPSCI Majority Members
From: HPSCI Majority Staff
Subject: Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act Abuses at the Department of Justice and the

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Purpose

This memorandum provides Members an update on significant facts relating to the
Committee’s ongoing investigation into the Department of Justice (DOJ) and Federal Bureau of
Investigation (FBI) and their use of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) during the
2016 presidential election cycle. Our findings, which are detailed below, 1) raise concerns with
the legitimacy and legality of certain DOJ and FBI interactions with the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Court (FISC), and 2) represent a troubling breakdown of legal processes established
to protect the American people from abuses related to the FISA process.

Investigation Update

- On October 21, 2016, DOJ and FBI sought and received a FISA probable cause order
(not under Title VII) authorizing electronic surveillance on Carter Page from the FISC. Page is a
U.S. citizen who served as a volunteer advisor to the Trump presidential campaign. Consistent
with requirements under FISA, the application had to be first certified by the Director or Deputy .
Director of the FBI. It then required the approval of the Attorney General, Deputy Attorney
General (DAG), or the Senate-confirmed Assistant Attorney General for the National Security
Division.

The FBI and DOJ obtained one initial FISA warrant targeting Carter Page and three FISA
renewals from the FISC. As required by statute (50 U.S.C. §1805(d)(1)), a FISA order on an
American citizen must be renewed by the FISC every 90 days and each renewal requires a
separate finding of probable cause. Then-Director James Comey signed three FISA applications
_ in question on behalf of the FBI, and Deputy Director Andrew McCabe signed one. Then-DAG
Sally Yates, then-Acting DAG Dana Boente, and DAG Rod Rosenstein each signed one or more
FISA applications on behalf of DOJ.

Due to the sensitive nature of foreign intelligence activity, FISA submissions (including
renewals) before the FISC are classified. As such, the public’s confidence in the integrity of the
FISA process depends on the court’s ability to hold the government to the highest standard—
particularly as it relates to surveillance of American citizens. However, the FISC’s rigor in
protecting the rights of Americans, which is reinforced by 90-day renewals of surveillance
orders, is necessarily dependent on the government’s production to the court of all material and

relevant facts. This should include information potentially favorable to the target of the FISA

rr
PROPERTY OF THE U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026250
