“Tarte thes nor any of the other plaintiffs have been able to pabiigin even a single word of information aren ..
Epstein about ci abuse of minor girls. -~ :

25. “| made a. good faith, -albeit unsuccessful, effort to resolve this: matter with ‘Anne B.
Carroll, representing the Daily News: in order to’ avoid any court intervention. | explained. that we .
needed ‘this tape for several reasons, including those cited by her. in her pleading. The tape is
detrimental to. Epstein’s personal complaint against Mand me; the tape is evidence.of perjury. . ~~ : ;
. committed’ by Epstein; the tape is the Best Evidence of his lack of remorse for his. actions and. will be |

presented in the punitive. damages. phase of the civil trials against him; and, perhaps most important, ,
the tape is the only way that the jury considering Jane Doe’s case will be able to hear Epstein’ 's voice and ,
“awn statements about his abuse of Jane. Doe and other minor girls. Without the tape, the jury will not
have: the opportunity to hear Epstein give any substantive: information about Jane Doe’ s complaint.
Indeed, they will not have the: ‘opportunity to‘even hear Epstein’ s voice utter any. ‘substantive words
other than (in essence} “I take the Fifth.” ~ As part of our discussion, Ms. Carroll told me'thatitwasa° 4

“stupid move” for Mr. Rush to play the tape or disclose the tape. to other people as he likely waived any © ne pan
privilege. and that, as.a result of disclosing the tape, he was at risk of losing. his job. Lresponded that it . oe
did not seem fair. that Mr..Rush lose his job or be. punished i in any way, but that | had an absolute duty to. .
represent my client and that | would be failing in that duty if | did not pursue this critical BIBER. of
evidence. - -

I declare under penalty of perjury that the Ae forgoing true and correct. ie

FURTHER AFFIANT SAYETH NAUGHT.

- Dated this 23” day of April, 2010.

_ Brad Feats Esq..

“The fatagaite, instrument was acknowledged before me this 234 day of or, 2010 by BRAD
_ EDWARDS, who i is ersonally, known to me. oe : 2 ee ee em oe

aeseacancctinl ramen Soap enbaf ond attanan

NU

Fe rermasou me

1, 2012
Denes a

PRL. Sindee linden emer llintee an

{

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013466
