evaluation of desirability.

Morewedge’s experiments point to a mismatch between how delicious something is and how
delicious we think it will be, or how delicious we thought it was. It reveals a distortion in our capacity to
anticipate — or forecast in the words of the American social psychologist Daniel Gilbert — how we will
feel, and in particular, how much we will like the experience. This is a problem for the elements of
pleasure that I laid out earlier in this chapter, as we expect the system that links wanting and liking to be
well honed, even optimized to make sure that we really want things we really like. Is this distortion
something to expect across the board, independently of context, or is it specific to our food? Is the social
domain similarly vulnerable to a distorted view of anticipated pleasure?

Consider revenge. When someone transgresses over the borders of social norms, either harming
us or those we care about, we often seek revenge, motivated to even things up. We often imagine that
revenge will make us feel better, providing a honey hit to the brain that will satisfy our desire to redress
an imbalance. But is this the outcome we consistently achieve when we follow through on a plot of
revenge or, as Sir Frances Bacon noted over three hundred years ago, might “A man that studieth revenge,
keeps his own wounds green, which otherwise would heal, and do well.” In more modern and plain
English, might our desire for revenge inoculate us against healing, creating an illusion that we will feel
better? If so, revenge looks like an addictive process, with wanting unhinged from liking.

The American psychologist Kevin Carlsmith set up an experimental game that allowed each
subject within a group to contribute money to a public good. At the end of one round, the bank multiplied
the total by a pre-determined amount, divided this total by the number of players, and then redistributed
this amount to each player. In this game, the best for each player in the group is to contribute to the
common pot because this maximized the returns. However, the best strategy for an individual is to defect,
holding on to the initial endowment while reaping the rewards of everyone else’s generous contributions.
Those who opt out of cooperation in a public good situation stand to benefit, especially in a world with no
punishment.

Carlsmith created an experimental world of punishment for some players, but not all, and then
explored how punishment contributed to a subject’s feelings. Some could pay to punish, some witnessed
the consequence of another’s punitive act, and some had no exposure to a game involving punishment.

When given the opportunity to punish the defector, most people punished. Everyone, both
punishers and non-punishers alike, expected punishment to feel good. They were wrong. Both punishers
and those who witnessed punishment felt worse, with the act of punishment compounding the bad
feelings. The fact that the witnesses felt worse, as opposed to better, may seem at odds with our
experience of schadenfreude, of enjoying another’s misery. Shouldn’t the witnesses have rejoiced upon

discovering that the offenders were slapped with a punitive fine? In our own personal experience with

Hauser Chapter 2. Runaway desire 68

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012814
