Teaching Kids to Walk and Talk 23

If a teacher is better at teaching a child than a parent is, it must
be because the teacher knows something the parent doesn’t know or,
at least, doesn’t know how to teach. This makes the teacher more ef-
fective than the parent, but for very uninteresting reasons. You can’t
teach what you don’t know, of course.

But knowledge alone is meaningless because teaching is not about
the transfer of knowledge. I realize that a great many people think that
this is what teaching is about; except if that were the issue, students
wouldn’t even think about rating their teachers on anything except
how much they knew. And, by the way, that is about the last thing
teachers are ever rated on.

For the most part, teachers are rated by students on how entertain-
ing they are. But entertainment and teaching are really not particu-
larly related. They are not unrelated because you can’t get through to
someone who has tuned you out. But you can entertain your students
and get great ratings and still teach them nothing.

Here is the Big Ten professor again:

At a big state university, which one would think has an
obligation to supply training to the students of that state in a
major field in which students can readily find employment,
the faculty could care less about that and they only want to
do graduate teaching. We teach courses that are modeled after
courses in the professor training schools like Harvard and MIT.
But how many professors do we need?

Superstars who bring a lot of funding are very important in
the university. The superstar system made sense when there were
superstars. But today how many of these superstars have really
big ideas? Does my school really have any superstars at all? I
don’t think so.

The School of Education, where I am also on the faculty,
has a research focus, which they do badly. Most of their
students plan to be teachers. But they teach them the literature
and not how to teach. It is the same situation as in computer
science. They really want their students to become professors of
education. They are not teaching teachers to teach because they
don’t care about that. They look down their noses at teacher
preparation schools. Ninety-eight percent of their undergraduates

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023769
