vocal communication plays an important
role in the social connection and
behavior of a great number of vertebrate
species. Thus while human vocal
communication is enhanced substantially
in face-to-face interaction, the evolution
of speech has resulted in a system that
can function even in the absence of
direct visual observation. The sound of
a threat or warning or distress can have
substantial impact even at a distance
from the speaker.

Social impact and embodied language

Many animals use vocalizations
to maintain social group structure and to
provide information relevant to a group.
Even very young children use the way
people speak as a marker of their social
affiliation.° Such vocalizations are
typically not viewed as symbolic forms
that must be decoded and interpreted.
Instead these vocalizations are mapped
onto internal states more directly, much
as human laughter may be. Although
linguists and psychologists have often
tried to differentiate human language
from these kinds of vocalizations,
language can impact us in much the
same way. Perhaps language is less
symbolic and more direct than scientists
have thought.

What does it mean for language
to have impact? If we take laughter as
our model, perhaps it means that
language gives rise to responses that
have a direct effect on our perceptual
and motor systems. Sermons may terrify
because they create worlds inside of the
listener that seem real. We can see and
hear torment and imagine the feelings of
pain and suffering. This is not a
symbolic interpretation but a real
experience created from language.
However, just as we can distinguish the
pain we feel from the pain of others,

Page |72

even when we have strong empathic
responses, we can distinguish such
created experiences from those that
occur in the real world. The stronger the
language, the richer the imagery, the
more intense the delivery, the more
salient the mentally created experience.
One impact of language may be to create
real feelings and sensations, imagined
movement and behavior.’ When
language hurts us through criticism,
rejection or insult, it may do so by
activating our experiences of real pain.
When we are soothed by language, it
may produce the same kind of endorphin
effect that placebo treatments can
invoke. When language binds us
together, it may do so by creating the
kind of shared emotional states that
characterize empathy.

In many respects, the linguistic
view of language use does not engage
these ways in which language functions.
Linguistics treats language as consisting
of patterns of symbols divorced from
their origins in a human mouth, almost
like print on a page rather than speech.
But it is spoken language that the social
brain evolved to use—print is a very
modern invention which did not play any
role in our evolution. In contrast, speech
is produced from a coordinate action of
muscles compressing lungs and moving
tongue and jaw under the control of
neurophysiology and hormones. Unlike
the shape of printed letters, the sound of
speech is shaped by attitude and emotion
and intent, and its impact may be to
transfer specific embodied states from
the speaker to the listener.

Conclusion

Although physicists have debated
the possibility of action at a distance for
quite some time, the biological form of
action at a distance is well established,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021318
