Base metals

Current (last month): copper USD 7,317/mt(7792); nickel USD 16,528/mt(16833); aluminum USD 1,825/mt(1989)
UBS View 6-month target: copper: UDS 7,400/mt nickel: USD 18,000/mt; aluminum: USD 2,200/mt

¢ With the exception of aluminum, base metal prices stabilized broadly in June. But we see room for
somewhat lower prices in the short run (4-6 weeks). Deteriorating industrial activity in Asian countries,
weak US data and the Euro-zone crisis remain a price burden for the sector in the early part of 3Q12.

¢ To weigh on scrap supply and compensated for lower Chinese copper imports, copper prices are likely to
decline towards USD 6600/mt, in our view. For the rest of the base metals, prices could move deeper into
the cost curve of production. When it comes to aluminum and nickel, however, prices have already
declined deeply into the production cost curve. In both cases supply cuts could come quicker and limit the
price downside from current levels.

¢ In addition, supply uncertainty related to aluminum and nickel needs to be considered as well.
Indonesia's new regulations on ore exports could jack up Chinese import costs by around 20% in the
coming quarters. We think such an increase would be meaningfully, as 60% of China's nickel pig iron (NPI)
production and 80% of China's bauxite imports depend on Indonesia.

¢ The reason why base metals overall should trade at current levels or higher in six months from now,
relates to China. We think the People's Bank of China has made the right monetary policy steps to achieve
stronger credit activity and higher sequential GDP growth in 2H 2012. With this fairly balanced risk reward
on a six-month horizon, we maintain our neutral position.

A Positive scenario

e China eases monetary policy aggressively, by pushing credit growth beyond 20% y/y. Additional QE in
the US paired with stable European and Japanese demand would allow the sector to rally by around 25%.
& Negative scenario

e Chinese monetary conditions remain behind the curve, resulting in an economic hard landing. A severe
escalation of the Eurozone crisis (deep recession/global impact) could also bring prices close to 2009 levels.

What we're watching Why it matters

Demand The latest uptick in Chinese imports, driven by technical factors, do not
reflect stronger end demand. The June figures (on 10 July) should give some
clarity. That said, the attractiveness to import from an arbitrage perspective
SHFE to LME has improved. Interest for physically backed copper ETFs needs to
be tracked as exchange inventories are structurally low.

Copper supply has room to improve in 2H 2012 from poor mine output in 1H
2012. Fading supply disruptions and capacity additions put copper at risk.
Indonesia's new export rules could have a positive one-off impact on aluminum
and nickel.

People's Bank of China meeting, Chinese economic data (especially IP and loan
growth by financial institutions) Key dates: 11-15 July

Supply

Economic data/forward
curve

3 UBS

For further information please contact CIO's asset class specialists Dominic Schnider, dominic.schnider@ubs.com or Giovanni Staunovo, giovanni.staunovo@ubs.com

Preference: neutral

Recommendations

Tactical (3-6 months)

e From a timing perspective, building up
exposure to base metals is not yet
advised. While we still expect higher
prices over the next 6-12 months, the
short-term downside risks should offer
investors better entry points, particularly
for copper. That said, existing aluminum
and nickel positions should be kept.

Strategic (>1 year )

e Rising energy and labor costs provide the
backdrop for base metal prices to trend
higher. The strongest performance is
likely to come from zinc and lead, where
existing mine capacity is expected to peak
in 2014. Environmentally challenged base
metals, like tin, should be in line with the
sector average. For nickel and aluminum,
ample production capacity should lead to
an underperformance in the long run.
Due to its high current price versus
production costs, copper should lag too.

Heavy industrial activity in China, with

high commodity use, slumped

26 Cumulative year-on-year values, in %

20

ce)

Feb-99 Feb-02 Feb-05 Feb-08 Feb-11

— Light industry value added Heavy industry value added

Source: Bloomberg, UBS CIO, as of 18 June 2012

Note: Past performance is not an indication of future returns.
37

Please see important disclaimer and disclosures at the end of the document.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024172
