Fittuy Ricu
TTERSON

sexual contact with Virginia Roberts. I know that it was
alleged that I was a witness to Jeffrey Epstein’s alleged abuse,
and that was false. I was never a witness to any of Jeffrey
Epstein’s sexual abuse. And I wrote that to you, something
that you have falsely denied. And I stand on the record. The
record is clear that I have categorically denied I was ever a
witness to any abuse, that I ever saw Jeffrey Epstein abusing
anybody. And—and the very idea that 1 would stand and
talk to Jeffrey Epstein while he was receiving oral sex from
Virginia Roberts, which she swore to under oath, is so outra-
geous, so preposterous, that even David Boies [a prominent

lawyer associated with the firm representing Virginia Rob-
erts] said he couldn't believe it was true.

ebecca says Virginia had previ-
vas abused by?

on.

Wexner one of the people that

the question.

fore December of 2014, when the
that your name had come up

1 Jeffrey Epstein’s abuse of minors,

-e 2014, end of December, was it
acted in any way inappropriately 12:24 p.m.
erts, that I ever touched her, that

1x been with her. I was completely Q: You engaged in a mass-media campaign to convince the

world that Bradley Edwards and Professor Paul Cassell were

unethical lawyers who had fabricated false charges against
you, correct?

never been any allegation. She ~
told you that secretly in 2011, but 3 i
‘s of any such conversation. You, .
ris allegation and will be deposed
on. I believe it is an entirely false J
in 2011 that she had had any sex- 4
nk she’s lying through her teeth 3
doubt that your notes will reveal
if she did tell you that, she would”
lying. So I am completely aware

: No, that’s not correct. I responded to press inquiries by tell-
ing the truth. My goal was to let the world know that Vir-
ginia Roberts's allegations against me were totally false.
These two stories appeared, as far as I can tell, in every single
newspaper in the world and on every media, which was part
of their plot and the plan of your clients, which is why they
absurdly mentioned Prince Andrew, claiming in the most
absurd way—that they mentioned him because he was try-

ing to lobby prosecutors to get a reduced sentence for Jeffrey

were put in a legal pleading at -
was never alleged that I had any

G

264 265

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022162
