trying to make money. : was a real case going on, but that within that ] would
Q. And these young lawyers, would you consider : have to create some sort of fictions in order tose].
Mr. Edwards to be a young lawyer or a middle-aged : the fake product.
lawyer? : Q. Okay. At the time that you decided to use
A. Young lawyer. i the Epstein case as part of your illicit Ponzi scheme
Q. Okay. Was he one of young lawyers that came : theme, I think you testified earlier today, when you
to these fundraisers at your home? were in some dire straights, you needed an influx of
A. J] don't recal] whether he was there or not. money, right?
} recall] him being at some, but ] didn't know if he A. Yes.
was at all of them. t Q. That's when you decided to use the Epstein
Q. Okay. You do recall] him coming to some of i matters, correct?
the fundraisers, though, correct? i A. Yes.
A. I recall him being at my home. It may have : Q. Okay. And you knew, | assume, being the
been for firm parties or other parties, it may have : Ponzi scheme mastermind here, that you needed to make
been for fundraisers there. s sure that you had at least a working knowledge of the
16 Q. And that was during the time period that the i Epstein case so that you could answer questions to the
Ponzi scheme was stil] going on, correct? 3 investors. I recognize that you left the room and
gis A. Yes. H told them to look at it, but you had to some knowledge
19 Q. Did Adler ever the tell you about any : of the case, right?
20 discussions he had with Brad Edwards about the illegal | MR. SCAROLA: Counsel, that's a
21 __ part of the operations at Rothstein? é misrepresentation of what the earlier testimony was.
22 A. Can you reask the question, please? : ] object, no proper predicate.
23 Q. Sure. Sure. i MR. GOLDBERGER: Okay, let's g0 through the
a24 Did Russell Adler ever tell you -- Russel] : whole thing again.
25 Adler is your co-conspirator, we've established that. MR. SCAROLA: No, you are not going to go
Page 102, Page 104

Pek eore tee * MAUR OAR ET TARE RAM LC ee EE ha I te a Se a a AA EN aN EE ELE EEE ETRE

arent

ee

saRerpanee sy

Did Russell Adler in the furtherance of your
conspiracy ever tell you he had discussed with Brad
Edwards about the illegal activities at RRA?

A. No.
Q. Now, you testified when asked about whethei asked about whether

the press -- if you were involved in asking the press asking the press
to run with the Epstein story, you said something to
the effect, the way I was selling the Ponzi scheme it

would be overkill.”

1 didn't understand your answer like you
didn't understand some of my questions, so I'd like
you to kind of tel] me what you meant by that.

A. 1 was selling purportedly confidential
settlements. Confidentiality was the hallmark of the
Ponzi scheme, so too much publicity would have created
a problem for me in the sale of what was supposed to
bea completely confidential settlement.

Q. J think what you are telling me, and] don't
want to misstate what I think you are telling me, but
is it true that you felt some publicity would be okay
but too much would be counter to the purposes of the
conspiracy. Js that a fair statement?

A. The way J was thinking about it at the time
this was going on was that some publicity would assist

in establishing for the potential investors that there
Page 103

through the whole thing again. Just because we have
tolerated two lawyers asking questions, does not mean
we are going to tolerate two lawyers asking the same
questions.

MR. GOLDBERGER: Your objection is noted.
BY MR. GOLDBERGER:

Q. Okay. So let's talk about your need to use
the Epstein case to further your conspiracy. You
needed an influx of money, did you not?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. You decided to use the Epstein case
for that purpose, right?

A. Yes.

Q. And in order to use the Epstein case, you
were going to meet with the investors and pitch the
Epstein case with the investors, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And in an effort to pitch the case to the
investors, you had to have some knowledge of the case,
did you not?

A. Some level of knowledge, yes, sir.

Q. Okay. And in order to gain that knowledge,
you spoke to your co-conspirator, Russell Adler; is
that correct?

A. That's one of the things ] did.

DIDO RWNYE
Peep

hp 4

Oe WNHOF OW DWAIADO BF WHR DW DAAIRAU B® WYNY EE

mw HM MH NH LH +

canter rea eae ean eee ence at teat m8 IS EG NDE AY PATE RSA CHER UES AMEE TEE UN
es 4

Page 105

27 (Pages 102 to 105)

FRIEDMAN, LOMBARDI & OLSON
305-371-6677

5ed93085-0554-447f-bcdd-ca2d8fe941 df

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017516
