then inevitably kernel.org or it’s equivalent in any system is the ultimate target.
Hackers might start with beer (your phone), a few glasses of wine (your office email
system), but what they really want is full blotto (kernel.org). Such central black
boxes exist in any linked system and they represent, at once, both the greatest
accomplishments of our most masterful systems designers and the point at which
other, as masterful digital machinists direct their most relentless attacks.

Dullien saw something else too as he considered the work of hackers. Comparing
system cracking to drinking wasn’t an accidental, funny aside for him. Hacking was
almost a kind of addiction. It became a chase after a bigger and bigger high, which in
computing terms meant a race to compromise as many machines as possible. Rapid
escalation, a loss of self-control, the need for more and more - all these are the
hallmarks of the best widespread attacks, which aim to expand the “compromise
boundary” until every machine has been made sick. This is why stealing source
code, the original instructions that lay behind any computer program, are sucha
prize for Warez Dudes. Source code is the DNA of the black box, in a sense, it can be
used break into other machines to, well, steal still more source code. This looked, to
Dullien, an awful lot like addiction. And it’s not just lone teen hackers looking for a
dopamine jump who were chasing machines with a blind addicts urgency. It infects
governments too. “Surprising realization (at least for me) after the Snowden leaks,”
Dullien observed. “Hacking is so addictive that entire organizations can become
addicts and show addict-style behavior.”!55 This was the NSA or GHSQ or who knew
what other intelligence service, for instance, in a feral hunger for more and more
and eventually all data. And the ultimate high? Imagine if you could crack the CA, the
Certificate Authority that provides proof that anyone working on a network is
trustworthy. CA “trustworthiness guarantees” are keys that permit access to any
computer, phone and network. The whole connected world depends on CAs to know
if software is safe. To control the CA would be a dream for an addicted organization,
like a set of keys to the local pharmacy. No lock would really serve much ofa
purpose. You could touch the beating heart of any machine on earth. The ultimate
black box. We should all hope the CA, at least, always remains pristine in this
dangerous world.

It was hacked in the summer of 2011.
6.

Dullien’s observation that “every hacking binge ends at Kernel.org” touches
something far deeper than just the world of hackers. Sure, that urgent drive to get to
the very core of systems is a very specific, unquenchable digital thirst. It’s where the
most power is, as we've seen. There’s a rush in getting there: When brain
researchers found a spike in dopamine levels of university students engaged in
password hacking, that was hardly a surprise to anyone who’s ever written or used

155 Surprising realization”: Thomas Dullien, “Offensive Work and Addiction”,
keynote presentation delivered at ISACA Nordic Conference (2014)

108

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018340
