resolution.” The memorandum concluded that while the demands of the presidency preclude
subjecting the chief executive to criminal process, no such importance attaches to the office
of the vice president.

Because Agnew pleaded no contest to an indictment in a negotiated agreement, there was no
resolution of his claim of immunity from indictment. Although the charges had been serious
(Agnew was said to have accepted containers of cash in the White House), he was allowed
to plead to a single count and serve no prison time, essentially in exchange for his
resignation from the vice presidency—an outcome that may not have been possible had
Agnew not been susceptible to indictment.

3. The Feb. 12, 1974, Memorandum to Independent Counsel Leon Jaworski. The
attorneys in the Office of Watergate Special Prosecutor Leon Jaworski concluded that there
was no legal bar to indicting a sitting president and that the office should recommend either
that the grand jury indict President Nixon or that criminal charges against him be
incorporated into a formal grand jury presentment. Jaworski concluded that the best course,
with impeachment proceedings in the offing, was to include Nixon as an unindicted co-
conspirator in the indictment of the other Watergate defendants.

The memo notes at the outset that

As we understand it, the conclusions regarding indictment of an incumbent President
reached by the Department of Justice, the U.S. Attorney’s office, and this office, are all
consistent: there is nothing in the language or legislative history of the Constitution that
bars indictment of a sitting president, but there are a number of ‘policy’ factors that weigh
heavily against it.

The memo finds those policy considerations offset by competing considerations.

For us or the grand jury to shirk from an appropriate expression of our honest assessment of
the evidence of the President’s guilt would not only be a departure from our responsibilities
but a dangerous precedent damaging to the rule of law.

In deciding whether to indict a sitting president, they asserted, any considerations of a
political nature should be left to Congress, which can decide if it wishes to immunize a
president from prosecution. The special prosecutor’s office did conclude, however, that the
quantum of proof required to support an indictment of a sitting president should be quite
high: “the evidence of the President’s guilt should be direct, clear, and compelling and ...
admit of no misinterpretation.”

Some of Jaworski’s team thought that President Nixon should be indicted. Others favored
proceeding by a “presentment,” which would set out “in detail the most important evidence
and the Grand Jury’s conclusion that the President has violated certain criminal statutes and
would have been indicted were he not President.” The office concluded that “there appears
to be no question of the propriety or legality of such a course....”. The memo noted that

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030203
