P.S. and thank you so much, Jeffrey, for your amazing support , without which much of what I've managed in the last few years would never have
happened. My next course for teachers, , as you'll notice, has shifted from art to environment--not because of any less passion on my part for arts
content but really because of greater enthusiasm among others for poetry/science for the classroom. I would like to hear more from you about what
you think kids/schools need in this area. Larry tells me you have views; as I move out of my central areas, I will need advice xxoolisa

PPiaheR y
| NB¥mMie rica

Poetry in America is now raising funds to complete an exciting group of new projects. Those in the pipeline include:

The Poetry of Earth, Sea and Sky

With commitments now in from the Poetry Foundation, Harvard’s Center for the Environment, NextGen Climate, Nautilus Magazine, and more,
Poetry in America is now embarking on the development of our second course specifically for teachers: Poetry in America for Teachers: The Poetry
of Earth, Sea and Sky. This course will offer teachers innovative ways to blend humanities and science instruction and will provide them with
classroom-ready materials. Via our partnership with the Bok Center, Harvard College and GSAS students will have the opportunity to build content,
and skills, as they craft media, curriculum, and digital architecture for this second Poetry in America course for teachers.

Medicine and Media

In partnership with Harvard-trained physician and ER creator Neal Baer, poet-physician Rafael Campo, the Arts and Literature Initiative of Harvard
Medical School, and the Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning at Harvard, Poetry in America will develop media around humane
communication for medical practitioners and students. Our initial collection of content will focus on breast cancer health and LGBTQ health, and this
project will provide the opportunity for students at Harvard Medical School and in the college to explore deeper registers of communication on vital
matters of health. Content developed for this project has the potential to become a television episode.

Poetry in America for Chinese Learners

With seed funding from a Harvard graduate, Poetry in America is now developing content in a variety of formats (for-credit courses as well as short-
form video assets to stream on internet platforms) for Chinese learners. Content will aim to offer new modes of humanities instruction to a broad
global audience. We hope to expand our offerings beyond poetry to include other content in the humanities, including material on Shakespeare and
World Literature.

Poetry in America: the Television Series (Season 2)

Plans for Season 2 are developing, and we hope to embark on a second season as soon as funds allow. On-camera interpreters already filmed or ready
to film with us include Katie Couric, Yang Lan, Billy Collins, Julie Taymor, Yusef Komunyakaa, Eve Ensler, Ray Dalio, Kay Redfield Jamison,
Mary Chapin Carpenter, Al Gore, Jorie Graham, Maurice Clarett, Jason Collins, Neal Baer, Danielle Ofri, Tom Steyer, and many others.

-- Elisa New

Powell M. Cabot Professor of American Literature
Harvard University

148 Barker Center

12 Quincy Street

Cambridge, MA

02138

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029432
