activated

Chapter 9”

Empathy and Interpersonal
Sensitivity

A young girl, after watching a
televised documentary account of child
hunger and suffering in Bangladesh,
pleads with her parents to “do
something” to help them. A new child in

? The lead author is Jean Decety, Ph.D., the
Irving B. Harris Professor in the Departments of
Psychology and Psychiatry, and co-director of
the Brain Research Imaging Center at the
University of Chicago Medical Center. He is the
editor of the journal Social Neuroscience. His
interests clude the investigation of the
neurobiological mechanisms underpinning
interpersonal sensitivity, particularly empathy
and sympathy. His recent work focuses on
developmental neuroscience with both typically
developing children and adolescents as well as in
children with deficits in empathic responding
such as antisocial behavior problems. Decety has
published more than 115 scientific papers, and
recently edited the Social Neuroscience of
Empathy (2009, MIT press), and Interpersonal
Sensitivity: Entering Others’ World (2007,
Psychology Press).

Empathy and sympathy play crucial
roles in much of human social interaction and are
necessary components for healthy co-existence.
Sympathy is thought to have a key role in
motivating prosocial behavior, guides our
preferences and behavioral responses, and
provides the affective and motivational base for
moral development. Although the study of these
abilities has traditionally been examined using
behavioral and clinical methods, recent work in
social neuroscience has begun to provide
compelling and novel insights on the neural
mechanisms involved in interpersonal
sensitivity. These developments are explored in
this essay.

scomponent

Page |85

daycare is being ignored by the other
children with the exception of one little
boy who takes her hand and includes her
in all his activities. These modest
beginnings signal the important and
ongoing role of empathy for surviving
and flourishing in our social world.
Empathy has been suggested to be
essential to navigating the social world;
it enhances our understanding of others,
improves the effectiveness of our social
communication, and fosters mutually
satisfying social relationships.
Conversely, lack of empathy or its
maladaptive use causes social
relationships to falter and fail.

Empathy refers to our natural
capacity to quickly and automatically
relate to the emotional states of another
person. Rudimentary forms of empathy
appear early in the life course, and with
maturation, empathy can be experienced
by simply reading about or imagining
someone else’s emotion. Empathy
comes so naturally that physicians must
learn to dampen their empathic pain
responses when inserting a needle into a
patient (1). Just because empathy comes
naturally does not mean, however, that it
is instantiated in a discrete brain module
that is automatically activated when one
witnesses another’s distress or suffering.
Rather, the experience of empathy is
underpinned by the combined activity of
several dissociable psychobiological
systems. Further, empathy can be
modulated by various contextual,
dispositional, and interpersonal factors.
The study of empathy, using
sophisticated methods from psychology,
neurology, neuroimaging, and
neuropsychology, provide a unique
opportunity to understand the invisible
power of empathy in shaping our
obligatorily gregarious social nature.

Defining empathy and its functions

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021331
