Date:
Time:

Case

7/13/06 PALM BEACH POLICE ee | ‘Page: 59
9:27:55 Incident Report Program: CMS301L

No. . . . : 1-05-000368 (Continued)
Miami. Mr. Fronstin further stated Epstein had originally called Mr.
Dershorwitz in Boston, who recommended Roy Black in Miami, who asked
Mr. Fronstin to assist. I informed him that if and when any charges
would be presented I would notify him. The call was then terminated.

Investigation continues.

RRKKREREKRERKEKEEEEEEKEKEKEEER NARRATIVE Ho QE REKKKEKKKEERERREREKRERKERRKKEKEK
NA Reported By: RECAREY, JOSEPH 12/15/05
Entered By.: ALTOMARO, NICKIE A. 12/16/05

A review of the telephone message books, which were obtained during
the search warrant, was conducted in which various messages from
different dates were made to Jeffrey Epstein. The telephone message
books have a duplicate copy (Carbon Copy) which, once a phone message
is written into the book, the top copy is then torn on the perforated
edge and the carbon copy is left in the book. First names of girls,
dates and telephone numbers were on the copy of the messages. I
recognized various numbers and names of girls that had already been
interviewed. The body of the messages was time of the day that they

called for confirmation of work. Other names and telephone numbers
were located in which the body of the messages were, I have girls for
him or I have 2 girls for him. These messages were taken by Hi

for Jeffrey Epstein. Based on the context of the body of the
messages, I requested subpoenas for subscriber information on the
telephone numbers and the time frame involved. Copies of the messages
were made for evidentiary purposes.

IL obtained] ———“—ts™SCSSCSCSCSCSCSCC*dS Nero for 2005, 2004 and
2003. I first reviewed the 2005 yearbook and located most of the
giris I had spoken with. Additionally, I located

Based on the corrected name spelling, I was able to locate her to her

residence in | On December 8, 2005, Det. Caristo and I
responded to . t located at

her home. She advised she is attending and is
participating in the early release program so she can maintain her bé .
part time job. As she is still a minor, I left my business card to b7c

have her mother return my call to request an interview with her
daughter. We then left the area.

researched the telephone number for [J and
A subpoena had been issued for the
The telephone number was registered to
A query of (—CC—CédS rleVeel ed
that she is the daughter of L_——~—“‘(SWsédIANG:«CiSs Currently residing at
in West Palm Beach. Det. Caristo and I attempted
contact with with negative results. I left my business card on
her front door requesting she return my call. We then responded to
in West Palm Beach. I also attempted contact with
Mr.[___—sdJwith negative results. I left my business card for him to

return my call:

I also had previousl
telephone number
information on

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019012

