20.

21.

necessary because: (a) Jane Doe filed a federal RICO claim against Epstein that was an
active claim through much of the litigation. The RICO claim alleged that Epstein ran an
expansive criminal enterprise that involved and depended upon his plane travel.
Although Judge Marra dismissed the RICO claim at some point in the federal litigation,
the legal team representing my clients intended to pursue an appeal of that dismissal.
Moreover, all of the subjects mentioned in the RICO claim remained relevant to other
aspects of Jane Doe’s claims against Epstein, including in particular her claim for
punitive damages; (b) Jane Doe also filed and was proceeding to trial on a federal claim
under 18 U.S.C. § 2255. Section 2255 is a federal statute which (unlike other state
statutes) guaranteed a minimum level of recovery for Jane Doe. Proceeding under the
statute, however, required a “federal nexus” to the sexual assaults. Jane Doe had two
grounds on which to argue that such a nexus existed to her abuse by Epstein: first, his
use of the telephone to arrange for girls to be abused; and, second, his travel on planes
in interstate commerce. During the course of the litigation, I anticipated that Epstein
would argue that Jane Doe’s proof of the federal nexus was inadequate. These fears
were realized when Epstein filed a summary judgment motion raising this argument. In
respo-nse, the other attorneys and I representing Jane Doe used the flight log evidence
to respond to Epstein’s summary judgment motion, explaining that the flight logs
demonstrated that Epstein had traveled in interstate commerce for the purpose of
facilitating his sexual assaults. Because Epstein chose to settle the case before trial,
Judge Marra did not rule on the summary judgment motion. (c) Jane Doe No. 102’s
complaint outlined Epstein’s daily sexual exploitation and abuse of underage minors as
young as 12 years old and alleged that he used his plane to transport underage females
to be sexually abused by him and his friends. The flight logs accordingly might have
information about either additional girls who were victims of Epstein’s abuse or friends
of Epstein who may have witnessed or even participated in the abuse. Based on this
information, I believed that the flight logs and related information was relevant
information to prove the cases against Jeffrey Epstein and accordingly I pursued them
in discovery.

In approximately November 2009, the existence of Scott Rothstein’s Ponzi scheme
became public knowledge. It was at that time that I, along with many other reputable
attorneys at RRA, first became aware of Rothstein criminal scheme. At that time, I left
RRA with several other RRA attorneys to form the law firm of Farmer Jaffe Weissing
Edwards Fistos and Lehrman (“Farmer Jaffe”). I was thus with RRA for less than one
year.

In July 2010, along with other attomeys at Farmer Jaffe and Professor Cassell, I reached
favorable settlement terms for my three clients Jj. WW... and Jane Doe in their
lawsuits against Epstein.

On July 20, 2010, I received a letter from the U.S. Attommey’s Office for the Southern
District of Florida — the office responsible for prosecuting Rothstein’s Ponzi scheme.
The letter indicated that law enforcement agencies had determined that I was “a victim
(or potential victim)” of Scott Rothstein’s federal crimes. The letter informed me of my
rights as a victim of Rothstein’s federal crimes and promised to keep me informed about

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013473
