CHAPTER 19

-Cause Affidavit:

‘viewed Jose [sic] Alessi, a for-
ipstein. Alessi stated he was
th Mr. Epstein, from approxt-
\lessi stated he was the house
raintenance person. It was his
e house for Epstein’s arrival.
- assistants, Alessi stated they
rivate plane. I asked Mr. Alessi
ve occurred at Epstein’s home.
-s three massages a day. Each
use was different. Alessi stated
mployment, the masseuses were
a asked how young, Mr. Alessi
ixteen or seventeen years of age

Firtuy Ricu

at the most. The massages would occur in Epstein’s bedroom
or bathroom. He knew this because he often set up the mas-
sage tables. I asked if there were things going on other than a
massage. Alessi stated that there were times towards the end
of his employment that he would have to wash off a mas-
sager/vibrator and a long rubber penis, which were in the
sink after the massage. Additionally, he stated the bed would
almost always have to be made after the massage.

On January 4, 2006 I interviewed another former house-
man, Mr. Alfredo Rodriguez. During a sworn taped state-
ment, Mr. Rodriguez stated he was employed by Jeffrey
Epstein for approximately six months, from November 2004
through May of 2005. His responsibilities as house manager
included being the butler, chauffeur, chef, houseman [and to]
run errands for Epstein and provide for Epstein’s guests. I
asked Rodriguez about masseuses coming to the house.
Rodriguez stated Epstein would have two massages a day.
Epstein would have one massage in the morning and one
massage in the afternoon everyday he was in residence.
Rodriguez stated he would be informed to expect someone
and make them comfortable until either Sarah Kellen: or
Epstein would meet with them. Rodriguez stated once the
masseuses would arrive, he would allow them entry into the
kitchen area and offer them something to drink or eat. They
would then be encountered by either Sarah Kellen or Epstein.
They would be taken upstairs to provide the massage. lasked
Rodriguez if any of the masseuses appeared young in age.
Rodriguez stated the girls that would come appeared to be
too young to be masseuses. He stated one time under Epstein’s
direction, he delivered a dozen roses to [Mary’s high school]

8&3

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019199
