Chapter 9

General Intelligence in the Everyday Human
World

9.1 Introduction

Intelligence is not just about what happens inside a system, but also about what happens outside
that system, and how the system interacts with its environment. Real-world general intelligence
is about intelligence relative to some particular class of environments, and human-like general
intelligence is about intelligence relative to the particular class of environments that humans
evolved in (which in recent millennia has included environments humans have created using
their intelligence). In Chapter 2, we reviewed some specific capabilities characterizing human-
like general intelligence; to connect these with the general theory of general intelligence from the
last few chapters, we need to explain what aspects of human-relevant environments correspond
to these human-like intelligent capabilities. We begin with aspects of the environment related
to communication, which turn out to tie in closely with cognitive synergy. Then we turn to
physical aspects of the environment, which we suspect also connect closely with various human
cognitive capabilities. Finally we turn to physical aspects of the human body and their relevance
to the human mind. In the following chapter we present a deeper, more abstract theoretical
framework encompassing these ideas.

These ideas are of theoretical importance, and they’re also of practical importance when one
turns to the critical area of AGI environment design. If one is going to do anything besides
release one’s young AGI into the “wilds” of everyday human life, then one has to put some
thought into what kind of environment it will be raised in. This may be a virtual world or it
may be a robot preschool or some other kind of physical environment, but in any case some
specific choices must be made about what to include. Specific choices must also be made about
what kind of body to give one’s AGI system — what sensors and actuators, and so forth. In
Chapter 16 we will present some specific suggestions regarding choices of embodiment and
environment that we find to be ideal for AGI development — virtual and robot preschools — but
the material in this chapter is of more general import, beyond any such particularities. If one
has an intuitive idea of what properties of body and world human intelligence is biased for,
then one can make practical choices about embodiment and environment in a principled rather
than purely ad hoc or opportunistic way.

161

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013077
