Glossary of Specialized Terms 333

Hebbian Links: Links recording information about the associative relationship (co-
occurrence) between Atoms. These include symmetric and asymmetric HebbianLinks.
Heterarchical Network: A network of linked elements in which the semantic relationships
associated with the links are generally symmetrical (e.g. they may be similarity links, or
symmetrical associative links). This is one important sort of subnetwork of an intelligent
system; see Dual Network.

Hierarchical Network: A network of linked elements in which the semantic relationships
associated with the links are generally asymmetrical, and the parent nodes of a node have
a more general scope and some measure of control over their children (though there may be
important feedback dynamics too). This is one important sort of subnetwork of an intelligent
system; see Dual Network.

Higher-Order Inference (HOI): PLN inference involving variables or higher-order func-
tions. In contrast to First-Order Inference (FOI).

Hillclimbing: A general term for greedy, local optimization techniques, including some
relatively sophisticated ones that involve *mildly nonlocal” jumps.

Human-Level Intelligence: General intelligence that’s ’as smart as’ human general in-
telligence, even if in some respects quite unlike human intelligence. An informal concept,
which generally doesn’t come up much in CogPrime work, but is used frequently by some
other AI theorists.

Human-Like Intelligence: General intelligence with properties and capabilities broadly
resembling those of humans, but not necessarily precisely imitating human beings.
Hypergraph: A conventional hypergraph is a collection of nodes and links, where each
link may span any number of nodes. OpenCog makes use of generalized hypergraphs (the
Atomspace is one of these).

e Imitation Learning: Learning via copying what some other agent is observed to do.

e Implication: Often refers to an ImplicationLink between two PredicateNodes, indicating

an (extensional, intensional or mixed) logical implication.

Implicit Knowledge Representation: Representation of knowledge via having easily
humanly identifiable pieces of knowledge correspond to the pattern of organization and/or
dynamics of elements, rather than via having individual elements correspond to easily hu-
manly identifiable pieces of knowledge.

Importance: A generic term for the Attention Values associated with Atoms. Most com-
monly these are STI (short term importance) and LTI (long term importance) values. Other
importance values corresponding to various different time scales are also possible. In general
an importance value reflects an estimate of the likelihood an Atom will be useful to the
system over some particular future time-horizon. STI is generally relevant to processor time
allocation, whereas LTT is generally relevant to memory allocation.

Importance Decay: The process of Atom importance values (e.g. STI and LTT) decreasing
over time, if the Atoms are not utilized. Importance decay rates may in general be context-
dependent.

Importance Spreading: A synonym for Importance Updating, intended to highlight the
similarity with “activation spreading” in neural and semantic networks.

Importance Updating: The CIM-Dynamic that periodically (frequently) updates the STI
and LTI values of Atoms based on their recent activity and their relationships.
Imprecise Truth Value: Peter Walley’s imprecise truth values are intervals [L,U], inter-
preted as lower and upper bounds of the means of probability distributions in an envelope

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013249
