an exploit.15¢ But the real drive to get inside is about more than an adrenaline rush.
Remember that network power, the power that we're trying to figure out how to
bend and shape for our own security, exists in a kind of dynamic tension. It’s like a
stretched, taut fabric spread between concentrated cores and billions of connected
users or devices. The logic of spreading and distributed power, the force that makes
the network bigger, is driven by Baran’s principle of open design, and by our own
hunger for communications and connection and cool new devices. But there is
another side to this tension.

In a sense, over the years, a whole set of hot, infectious pressures descended on the
network of values and friendships and easy cooperation of the Hack-Tic days. “Be
generous in what you receive,” had let the networks of our age grow at an incredible
pace, but at the price of vulnerability, of commercial ambition, and of an eerie
technological lemma that what made the systems faster and stronger might also kill
them. A change in culture of the digital elite, naturally, followed. The brutal,
inarguable, profitable demands of power and politics had cracked apart the unique
social webs of the HacTic era. I did not like watching this sad evolution; none of us
did, but anyhow it has produced the world in which our new sensibility will have to
operate. The openness that we loved and craved in so many areas of life, from our
minds to our markets, had now become a liability. “I remember what the Internet
was like before it was being watched and there had never been anything in the
history of man that is like it,” Edward Snowden once observed, nostalgic for the
datascape he saw melt away during his time at the NSA. 157 I realize now that there
is a whole new generation of young programmers that won't ever know that original
generous ethos of a place like Hacktic, a fresh cohort of the digital age that operates
at levels of technical mastery far beyond anything we might have imagined in the
Citicorp Tower basement 20 years ago. They will confront endless battles to get
inside and exploit and make “weird” the cores of network power. They will know
and design and manage instead a world of gates, built for protection. Their instincts
will be for opacity and control, not openness and generosity. Invariably this shift
will affect the design of the systems this new generation builds which will, in turn,
affect all of us.

The black boxes and the crackers are in a dance, now, a sort of dangerous
evolutionary waltz that offers a foretaste of what you and I will face as we consider
the problems of attack and defense and strategy in a networked age!*®. It reminds

156 There’s a rush: Wael Khalifa, Kenneth Revett and Abdel-Badeeh Salem “In the
Hacker’s Eye: The Neurophysiology of a Computer Hacker”, in Global Security, Safety
and Sustainability & e-Democracy Volume 99 of the series Lecture Notes of the
Institute for Computer Sciences, Social Informatics and Telecommunications
Engineering, (Berlin: Springer), 112-119

157 “J remember what the Internet was like”: Snowden interview in CITIZENFOUR,
Laura Poitras (2015)

158 The black boxes: Nikos Virvilis, Dimitris Gritzalis, Theodoros Apostolopoulos,
“Trusted Computing vs. Advanced Persistent Threats: Can a defender win this
game?” 2013 IEEE 10th International Conference on Ubiquitous Intelligence &

109

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018341
