4 MICHAEL WOLFF

hear directly from the special counsel, who would send him a compre-
hensive and even apologetic letter of exoneration.
“Where” he kept demanding to know, “is my fucking letter?”

+ +

The grand jury empanelled by Special Counsel Robert Mueller met on
Thursdays and Fridays in federal district court in Washington. Its busi-
ness was conducted on the fifth floor of an unremarkable building at 333
Constitution Avenue. The grand jurors gathered in a nondescript space
that looked less like a courtroom than a classroom, with prosecutors at a
podium and witnesses sitting at a desk in the front of the room. The Mueller
grand jurors were more female than male, more white than black, older
rather than younger; they were distinguished most of all by their focus
and intensity. They listened to the proceedings with “a scary sort of atten-
tion, as though they already know everything,” said one witness.

In a grand jury inquiry, you fall into one of three categories. You are
a “witness of fact.” meaning the prosecutor believes you have information
about an investigation at hand. Or you are a “subject,” meaning you are
regarded as having personal involvement with the crime under investiga-
tion. Or, most worrisome, you are a “target,” meaning the prosecutor is
seeking to have the grand jury indict you. Witnesses often became sub-
jects, and subjects often became targets.

In early 2018, with the Mueller investigation and its grand jury main-
taining a historic level of secrecy, no one in the White House could be sure
who was what. Or who was saying what to whom. Anyone and everyone
working for the president or one of his senior aides could be talking to the
special counsel. The investigation’s code of silence extended into the West
Wing. Nobody knew, and nobody was saying, who was spilling the beans.

Almost every White House senior staffer—the collection of advisers
who had firsthand dealings with the president—had retained a lawyer.
Indeed, from the president's first days in the White House, Trump’ tangled
legal past and evident lack of legal concern had cast a shadow on those
who worked for him. Senior people were looking for lawyers even as they
were still learning how to navigate the rabbit warren that is the West Wing.

In February 2017, mere weeks after the inauguration, and not long

SIEGE $

after the FBI had first raised questions about National Security Adv
Michael Flynn, Chief of Staff Reince Priebus had walked into Steve I
nons office and said, “I'm going to do you a big favor. Give me your ci
card. Don't ask me why, just give it to me. You'll be thanking me fo1
rest of your life.”

Bannon opened his wallet and gave Priebus his American Ext
card. Priebus shortly returned, handed the card back, and said, “You
have legal insurance.”

Over the next year, Bannon—a witness of fact—spent hundrec
hours with his lawyers preparing for his testimony before the sp:
counsel and before Congress. His lawyers in turn spent ever moun
hours talking to Mueller’s team and to congressional committee coun
Bannons legal costs at the end of the year came to $2 million.

Every lawyer's first piece of advice to his or her client was blunt
unequivocal: talk to no one, lest it become necessary to testify about 1
you said. Before long, a constant preoccupation of senior staffers in
Trump White House was to know as little as possible. It was a wre
side-up world: where being “in the room” was traditionally the r
sought-after status, now you wanted to stay out of meetings. You wa:
to avoid being a witness to conversations; you wanted to avoid b
witnessed being a witness to conversations, at least if you were sn
Certainly, nobody was your friend. It was impossible to know whe
colleague stood in the investigation; hence, you had no way of knox
how likely it was that they might need to offer testimony about some
else—you, perhaps—as the bargaining chip to save themselves by cc
erating with the special counsel, a.k.a. flipping.

The White House, it rapidly dawned on almost everyone who wo:
there—even as it became one more reason not to work there—was
scene of an ongoing criminal investigation, one that could potent
ensnare anyone who was anywhere near it.

+ + +

The ultimate keeper of the secrets from the campaign, the transition,
through the first year in the White House was Hope Hicks, the W
House communications director. She had witnessed most everyth

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021126
