COWEN
COLLABORATIVE INSIGHTS

84

February 25, 2019

Latin American Landscape

Chile

Medical cannabis has been legal in Chile since 2017 following a pilot program conducting
scientific research that began in 2014. A consortium of non-for-profit organizations,
most notably the Daya Foundation, ran this program. They treated over 1,000 patients
in the first year of operations. Following the regulatory change in 2017, imported
medical cannabis products were available from pharmacies.

Product authorization and cultivation licenses are required to grow and distribute
medical cannabis products in country. The Agricultural and Livestock Service of Chile
governs these licenses. Chile also permits home-grow, which is popular in the country
and the region.

Dayacann (part of Daya Foundation) was the first company to receive a license to
cultivate medical cannabis in Chile. Khiron Life Sciences entered an MOU with Dayacann
in January 2019 to further expand into the Chilean market of around 1.8 million
patients. In 2018, Tilray entered a partnership with Alef Biotechnology (now Tilray Latin
America) for distribution in Chile and Brazil, and recently received a license to cultivate
and process medical cannabis products. Two Tilray products, T100 and TC100 were
approved for prescription in 2016. Canopy Growth’s Spectrum Cannabis Chile is also
operating in Santiago focused on medical research and patient outreach.

Hemp production has been part of Chile’s history, dating back to the 1500s, and has
remained legal. There have been provisions in Chilean law to differentiate between
cannabis and hemp. Despite its legality, there are not many hemp farms in the country.
Chile hosts Expoweed, a hemp trade show, that is Latin America’s biggest hemp event.
With the land and history, the country has positioned itself for growth as demand for
hemp-based products increase.

Colombia

Colombia is becoming a Latin American hub for cannabis cultivation due to favorable
climate and cost of production. The country permits exports of extracts only, with the
exception of small quantities of dried flower that are exported for scientific reasons.
Only permitting extracts for export is strategic to have traceability from seed to harvest
and production. This is in order to curb organized crime and money laundering related to
the country’s history of drug trafficking. There have been trade agreements established
between the EU and Canada in order to facilitate exportation of extracts.

The governments passed legislation for medical use in 2015, which was formally
implemented in 2016, and a framework for medical cannabis cultivation was established
in 2017. The country issues four types of licenses: 1. Cannabis Seeds (for scientific
purposes) 2. Cultivation (psychoactive cannabis) 3. Manufacturing (cannabis derivatives)
4. Cultivation (non-psychoactive cannabis). Another license is required to export. Clever
Leaves became the first Colombian company in February 2019 to export medical
cannabis to Canada.

Many Canadian LPs have opened operations in Colombia, including Canopy, Aurora,
Plena Global, Khiron Life Sciences, Blueberries Medical Corp, Pharmacielo and Wayland.
Some of these companies are focused on cultivating strains for CBD. Pure Harvest
Cannabis Producers recently entered a JV for land in Colombia to produce CBD from
hemp and cannabis. Pharmacielo also secured a proprietary license to cultivate 10
strains, some CBD and some THC dominant. The company registered their seeds, which
is now required following an amnesty period for seed genetics that ended December 31,

COWEN.COM

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024900
