TERSON

ds in the Hamptons; affairs with
ig splashed all over the tabloids.
ma time, he and Epstein would

rs, “that was just business. He'd
dinners. When he went to the
itls with him. They'd take turns

22S .
n used to boast that he “liked to
he liked to fuck crazy women.”

eister adds. “But I’m telling you,

-iends and acquaintances would
ywn much less shy about sharing.
showitz to invest with a prominent
n Kramer. Dershowitz did, and he
in 2008, the fund Dershowitz had

sunt. Afterward, according to a for-

sin appeared in Kramer's midtown

say, he told Kramer: “Its very much {

xshowitz whole.”

ced. and Dershowitz recovered his 3

ig

in back in the 1980s, this kind off
- But the thing about Epstein wé |

“a
oe

1 out. One minute he was charmt 3

i
‘3

r

Fittuy Ricu

The most charming man you'd ever meet. The next he was snarl,
threat, and bluster. Something didn’t add up. So you'd run the
numbers: this many parties, that many women. Even with the
connection to Victoria's Secret, the women didn’t add up, either.

Throw in the modeling agency, it makes more sense. Then
you plug in the parties. The scene brings Eyes Wide Shut to mind.
But the thing is, Eyes Wide Shut only works in the shadows. For
Epstein, getting on that plane with Clinton was more like a
moment in Caddyshack—the one in which the groundhog peeks
out from his hole in the golf course. From there on in, Jeffrey
Epstein was like the mole in a game of whack-a-mole. It was only
a matter of time before he'd be caught. But the question you had
to ask yourself was, are people like Epstein born without mor-
als? Or are their morals like snakeskin—just something they
shed (along with all the other basic, day-to-day concerns that
everyday working people have) as they make their way into that
Eyes Wide Shut world?

Todd Meister, who was married to Nicky Hilton and stole the
heiress Samantha Boardman away from Condé Nast’s former
editorial director James Truman, should know. He wonders out

loud:

“How does a yutz like Epstein get beautiful women?”
At Harry Cipriani, the question lingers in the air.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010498
