&6 Teaching Minds
Erikson proposed that trust or mistrust develops during the

(A) muscular-anal stage.

(B) locomotor-genital stage.
(C) latency stage.

(D) oral-sensory stage.

(E) maturity stage.

Psychology is all about experimentation, but the questions here are
about facts about previous experiments, which is very different from
learning to design and perform an experiment about something that
personally interests you. Psychology teachers cannot teach students
how to create a hypothesis and experiment to find out whether it is
true, unless they go around the existing curriculum. Since teachers are
judged by their students’ results on AP tests, this is hardly likely.

Another problem here is that only some of the 12 cognitive pro-
cesses are conscious. Others are hidden from our conscious minds.
If school were to actively try to teach diagnosis, for example, soon
enough there would be the 18 principles of diagnosis or a test about
who said what about diagnosis. There probably wouldn’t be much ac-
tual diagnosis unless something drastically changed our conception of
what schooling should look like.

The major problem with how we think about teaching is our con-
ception of what it means to teach, as well as our conception of what it
means to learn. In school we “know” that one has to learn math and
science and literature. I am asserting here that it is that notion, that
there are these specific subjects to teach, that has ruined our schools.

There are abilities to teach, not subjects.

Academics designed the school system. To them, it seemed natu-
ral that the subjects that they were experts on should be taught in
high school. Such a simple thought has created a major problem.'
Education ought not be subject-based but, in a sense, we can’t help
but think of it that way because we all went to schools that were sub-
ject-based. Even corporate training, which need not be subject-based,
tends to be viewed in that way as well, simply because that is the way
we have always looked at education owing to our own experiences in
school.

Once you set up the learning question in terms of subjects that need
to be taught, it is very tempting to use the old tried and true, Why

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023812
