Real-Life Learning Projects Considered &7

don’t we just tell them the facts and any underlying theories? The knowledge
metaphor, the one that says that teachers know some stuff that students
don’t, naturally leads teachers to tell students what they know.

Now let’s consider corporate training.

The companies that contract with my company’ to build courses
know that we will not use the learning by telling method. Presumably
they are frustrated with the results that the telling method has pro-
duced in courses that have been built for them by others. (In fact, they
refer to it as “death by PowerPoint.”) This is why they come to us. Still
they can’t help but ask the same subject-based question. How could
they not? It is all they know. They went to school. They see the world
in the way that school taught them to see it.

They don’t ask the questions they should ask because they can’t.
We need to transform badly formed educational questions into prop-
erly formed ones. We need to transform subject-based questions into
cognitive process-based questions. This means changing statements
about the need to manage client relationships into statements about
cognition, and statements about product launch into ones about cog-
nition, and so on. What does it mean to make such transformations?
It means asking what one does when one manages client relationships
or when one launches a product. This is, of course, exactly what we
ask clients in our first meeting with them. For example, we ask: What
does one do when one launches a product?

What I plan to do here is reveal what we do next, namely, the sub-
ject to cognitive ability transformation process. We must do the transfor-
mation properly and then make clear what one does in course design
after one has figured out what really needs to be taught.

Let’s start simple. Let’s imagine we want to train insurance adjust-
ers to decide what compensation a policy owner is entitled to after a
hurricane hits his property. (Yes, I do live in Florida, but I can’t say I
care much about this process personally.) I found this on the Internet
covering this subject:

Catastrophe Adjusting Refresher

Course Description: This is a course package comprised of three
courses plus a bonus section and downloadable documents.

One of the three courses is this:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023813
