Haberman and Glenn Thrush, would become part of Trump’s constant refrain about the
media being out to get him. Thrush would even become a fixture in Saturday Night Live
sketches that mocked the president, his children, his press secretary Sean Spicer, and his
advisers Bannon and Conway.

The president, while often a fabulist in his depiction of the world, was quite a literalist
when it came to how he saw himself. Hence he rebutted this picture of him as a half-
demented or seriously addled midnight stalker in the White House by insisting that he
didn’t own a bathrobe.

“Do I seem like a bathrobe kind of guy, really?” he demanded, not humorously, of
almost every person with whom he spoke over the next forty-eight hours. “Seriously, can
you see me in a bathrobe?”

Who had leaked it? For Trump, the details of his personal life suddenly became a far
greater matter of concern than all the other kinds of leaks.

The New York Times Washington bureau, itself quite literal and worried by the possible
lack of an actual bathrobe, reverse-leaked that Bannon was the source of the story.

Bannon, who styled himself as a kind of black hole of silence, had also become a sort
of official black-hole voice, everybody’s Deep Throat. He was witty, intense, evocative,
and bubbling over, his theoretical discretion ever giving way to a constant semipublic
commentary on the pretensions and fatuousness and hopeless lack of seriousness of most
everyone else in the White House. By the second week of the Trump presidency,
everybody in the White House seemed to be maintaining their own list of likely leakers
and doing their best to leak before being leaked about.

But another likely leak source about his angst in the White House was Trump himself.
In his calls throughout the day and at night from his bed, he frequently spoke to people
who had no reason to keep his confidences. He was a river of grievances—including about
what a dump the White House was on close inspection—examples of which many
recipients of his calls promptly spread throughout the ever attentive and merciless gossip
world.

OOK Ok

On February 6, Trump made one of his seething, self-pitying, and unsolicited phone calls
without presumption of confidentiality to a passing New York media acquaintance. The
call had no discernible point other than to express his bent-out-of-shape feelings about the
relentless contempt of the media and the disloyalty of his staff.

The initial subject of his ire was the New York Times and its reporter Maggie
Haberman, whom he called “a nut job.” The Zimes’s Gail Collins, who had written a
column unfavorably comparing Trump to Vice President Pence, was “a moron.” But then,
continuing under the rubric of media he hated, he veered to CNN and the deep disloyalty

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019953
