272 Teaching Minds

Obviously, this list could be much longer. The intention here is to
make any student excited about learning because what he or she wants
to learn about is offered. The trick for the designers of the curricula is
to make sure that students’ interest is grabbed and maintained for a
full year, while teaching them how to hone their capabilities at the 12
cognitive processes.

What are the obstacles?

What would prevent this from happening? Really there are only
four issues:

Finding people who know how to build the curricula
Paying the people who will build the curricula
Convincing schools or other entities to offer the curricula
Training teachers to be mentors in these curricula

Smart, articulate, people who are well organized and can write
well can easily learn to do the bulk of the work involved in building
a course as long as they have access to experts and are guided by
experienced designers, and the project is run by someone how knows
how to run projects. Finding people who can do this work is not a
problem. Being able to pay them for the year or so that it takes to do
the work is the real issue.

This leads us to discuss who would pay for this. The answer should
be the federal government, but it is clear that that will never happen.
The federal government, as any interested citizen knows, is influenced
mightily by big business, especially when big business has profits to
protect.

Companies that produce textbooks and companies that produce
and grade exams will not stand by and see their revenues drop. Any
alternative curriculum that did not use textbooks and did not use
standardized tests would be anathema to them. Companies that have
billions of dollars in revenues from textbooks know how to encourage
politicians to protect their interests.

What about the testing industry? A recent report says that “the
testing industry is somewhat secretive.” I wonder why. But sometimes
they do report revenue. To give an example, the revenue of Kaplan
Inc., which is just one of many test preparation companies, was over
$1 billion in 2008. Who owns Kaplan? The Washington Post. So while
the testing companies make great profits, the nation’s newspapers,
having a vested interest in those profits, tout testing as the country’s

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023958
