“Bao S Case 1:19-cv-03377Prd>Beenven fade Hor eReuy G1 S~-Page 2 of 4

Prof. Dershowitz, Tell Me How You
Really Feel

Harvard's legendary law professor chats with the Careerist about the recent sex allegations, his enemies and the
cesspool.

By Vivia Chen | January 15, 2015 at 06:19 PM | Originally published on The American Lawyer

(Alan Dershowitz)

Alan Dershowitz, arguably the most famous—and maybe infamous—law professor in the
land, wants to set the record straight. When he heard that | was writing about his
relationship with billionaire Jeffrey Epstein and the related allegation that Dershowitz
engaged in sex with a minor, he tracked me down to tell his side of the story.

The backdrop: Dershowitz was part of a legal team that had negotiated a plea deal in
2008 in which Epstein pleaded guilty to felony charges in Florida for soliciting prostitution

from a minor. Epstein served 13 months in prison but was spared federal charges under

the deal. Last December, lawyers Bradley Edwards and Paul Cassellfiled suit against

the U.S. government, arguing that the plea deal violated the rights of Epstein’s alleged
sex victims; the suit also alleges that Dershowitz had sex with one of the victims when
she was under age. Dershowitz has denied all the allegations, and Edwards and Cassell
have filed a defamation suit against Dershowitz for calling them liars.

The following are excerpts from my two phone conversations with Dershowitz:

From what I’ve read, your relationship with Epstein seemed chummy. You
socialized with him and you and your family stayed at his various homes. Isn’t ita

bad idea for a lawyer to be so close to a notorious client?

Let me tell you how | met him. | was introduced to him by Lady de Rothschild as an
academic colleague. He was friendly with Larry Summers. . . He was in the process of

contributing $50 million to Harvard for evolutionary biology.

So Epstein was friendly with all sorts of Harvard muckety-mucks.

https:/Awww.law.com/alm|D/1202715316005/Prof-Dershowitz-Tell-Me-How-You-Really-Feel/?slreturn=201 90308174659 1/3

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018023
