Cognitive Process-Based Education 9

you get good at learning these things, you get good at what life has to
offer. The list above is a partial list of the group of learning processes
that I detail in Chapter 4. It is really quite important. I have used dat-
ing as a simple way of explaining it because no one has to explain why
that matters to a teenager. Teenagers know that they have to learn the
processes that I discuss in Chapter 4. As things are now, these impor-
tant issues are not considered significant enough to deal with seriously
in school. World history is always considered more important. But
why should that be the choice?

Earlier, I mentioned that students want to learn how to drive as
well as how to date. This is a pretty universal goal that teenagers have
so we should ask of it as well whether it is important and what it
might be an instance of that is inherently significant in real life.

On the surface, driving seems a skill that is an important part of
daily life. So, one is led to ask why driving isn’t a school subject? The
answer is that it is. Driver’s education has been taught in schools for
many years. Not every school offers it, but many do. So what is the
problem? It is just a useful skill, not a scholarly subject, so surely I
am not suggesting that it is more important than physics. That is, of
course, exactly what I am suggesting.

In our test-driven society, when driver’s ed is taught, it is taught
with a clear goal and a clear notion of success. When a student has
passed the tests and gotten her driver’s license, everyone is satisfied.

Well, not everyone. I was once called in on a consulting assign-
ment for a university hospital that was working on a study to prevent
teenage car accidents. The study was funded by an insurance company
that would have been happy to pay out less in damages and, presum-
ably, also thought fewer dead kids would be a generally good thing.
What is the problem?

Students may have their licenses but they don’t know much about
driving and responsibility. It wouldn’t be a shock to anyone to know
that kids drink and drive, text message and drive, and generally yell
and scream and goof around while driving. They often die from this
behavior. Could we teach them not to do that? The answer always
seems to be to put up posters that say don’t drink and drive and to
make them watch scary movies about car accidents. The school system
strikes again.

If we tell them, then they will do it, never seems to work, but we keep
trying.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023755
