headquarters in Los Angeles. Um. I want to talk about wealth creation and what wealth
creation really can achieve and maybe take it in a slightly different direction, because I
believe the world, and particularly the Judeo-Christian west, is in a crisis. And it’s really
the organizing principle of how we built Breitbart News to really be a platform to bring
news and information to people throughout the world. Principally in the west, but we’re
expanding internationally to let people understand the depths of this crisis, and it is a
crisis both of capitalism but really of the underpinnings of the Judeo-Christian west in our
beliefs.

It’s ironic, I think, that we’re talking today at exactly, tomorrow, 100 years ago, at the exact
moment we’re talking, the assassination took place in Sarajevo of Archduke Franz
Ferdinand that led to the end of the Victorian era and the beginning of the bloodiest
century in mankind’s history. Just to put it in perspective, with the assassination that took
place 100 years ago tomorrow in Sarajevo, the world was at total peace. There was trade,
there was globalization, there was technological transfer, the High Church of England and
the Catholic Church and the Christian faith was predominant throughout Europe of
practicing Christians. Seven weeks later, I think there were 5 million men in uniform and
within 30 days there were over a million casualties.

That war triggered a century of barbaric — unparalleled in mankind’s history — virtually
180 to 200 million people were killed in the 20th century, and I believe that, you know,
hundreds of years from now when they look back, we’re children of that: We’re children of
that barbarity. This will be looked at almost as a new Dark Age.

But the thing that got us out of it, the organizing principle that met this, was not just the
heroism of our people — whether it was French resistance fighters, whether it was the
Polish resistance fighters, or it’s the young men from Kansas City or the Midwest who
stormed the beaches of Normandy, commandos in England that fought with the Royal Air
Force, that fought this great war, really the Judeo-Christian West versus atheists, right?
The underlying principle is an enlightened form of capitalism, that capitalism really gave
us the wherewithal. It kind of organized and built the materials needed to support,
whether it’s the Soviet Union, England, the United States, and eventually to take back
continental Europe and to beat back a barbaric empire in the Far East.

That capitalism really generated tremendous wealth. And that wealth was really

distributed among a middle class, a rising middle class, people who come from really

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029022
