15

expensive gifts. Like the domestic bribery statute, the FCPA
does not contain a minimum threshold amount for corrupt
gifts or payments.* Indeed, what might be considered a
modest payment in the United States could be a larger and
much more significant amount in a foreign country.
Regardless of size, for a gift or other payment to vio-
late the statute, the payor must have corrupt intent—that is,
the intent to improperly influence the government official.
The corrupt intent requirement protects companies that
engage in the ordinary and legitimate promotion of their
businesses while targeting conduct that seeks to improp-
erly induce officials into misusing their positions. Thus, it
is difficult to envision any scenario in which the provision
of cups of coffee, taxi fare, or company promotional items
of nominal value would ever evidence corrupt intent, and
neither DOJ nor SEC has ever pursued an investigation
on the basis of such conduct. Moreover, as in all areas of
federal law enforcement, DOJ and SEC exercise discre-
tion in deciding which cases promote law enforcement pri-
orities and justify investigation. Certain patterns, however,
have emerged: DOJ’s and SEC’s anti-bribery enforcement
actions have focused on small payments and gifts only when
they comprise part of a systemic or long-standing course of
conduct that evidences a scheme to corruptly pay foreign
officials to obtain or retain business. These assessments are

necessarily fact specific.

Cash

The most obvious form of corrupt payment is large
amounts of cash. In some instances, companies have main-
tained cash funds specifically earmarked for use as bribes.
One US. issuer headquartered in Germany disbursed cor-
rupt payments from a corporate “cash desk” and used off-
shore bank accounts to bribe government officials to win
contracts.” In another instance, a four-company joint ven-
ture used its agent to pay $5 million in bribes to a Nigerian
political party.” The payments were made to the agent in
suitcases of cash (typically in $1 million installments), and,
in one instance, the trunk of a car when the cash did not fit

into a suitcase.”!

Gifts, Travel, Entertainment, and Other Things
of Value

A small gift or token of esteem or gratitude is often
an appropriate way for business people to display respect
for each other. Some hallmarks of appropriate gift-giving
are when the gift is given openly and transparently, properly
recorded in the giver’s books and records, provided only to
reflect esteem or gratitude, and permitted under local law.

Items of nominal value, such as cab fare, reasonable
meals and entertainment expenses, or company promo-
tional items, are unlikely to improperly influence an off-
cial, and, as a result, are not, without more, items that have
resulted in enforcement action by DOJ or SEC. The larger
or more extravagant the gift, however, the more likely it was
given with an improper purpose. DOJ and SEC enforce-
ment cases thus have involved single instances of large,
extravagant gift-giving (such as sports cars, fur coats, and
other luxury items) as well as widespread gifts of smaller
items as part of a pattern of bribes.” For example, in one
case brought by DOJ and SEC, a defendant gave a govern-
ment official a country club membership fee and a genera-
tor, as well as household maintenance expenses, payment
of cell phone bills, an automobile worth $20,000, and lim-
ousine services. The same official also received $250,000
through a third-party agent.”

In addition, a number of FCPA enforcement actions
have involved the corrupt payment of travel and entertain-
ment expenses. Both DOJ and SEC have brought cases
where these types of expenditures occurred in conjunction
with other conduct reflecting systemic bribery or other
clear indicia of corrupt intent.

A case involving a California-based telecommuni-
cations company illustrates the types of improper travel
and entertainment expenses that may violate the FCPA.*
Between 2002 and 2007, the company spent nearly $7 mil-
lion on approximately 225 trips for its customers in order to
obtain systems contracts in China, including for employees
of Chinese state-owned companies to travel to popular tour-
ist destinations in the United States.” Although the trips

were purportedly for the individuals to conduct training at

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022517

