Perhaps it's not entirely surprising that Iran's Shiite fundamentalists -- not unlike their
evangelical Christian, Catholic, Orthodox Jewish, and Sunni Muslim counterparts -- spend
an inordinate amount of time pondering sexuality. They are human, after all. But the
sexual manias of Iran's religious fundamentalists are worthy of greater scrutiny, all the
more so because they control a state with nuclear ambitions, vast oil wealth, and a young,
dynamic, stifled population. Yet for a variety of reasons -- fear of becoming Salman
Rushdie, of being labeled an Orientalist, of upsetting religious sensibilities -- the

remarkable hypocrisy of the Iranian regime is often studiously avoided.

That's a mistake. Because religion is politics in a theocracy like Iran, uninformed or
antiquated notions of sexuality aren't just confined to the bedroom -- they pervade the
country's seminaries, military barracks, boardrooms, courtrooms, and classrooms. A
common aphorism among Iranians is that before the revolution, people partied outside
the home and prayed inside, while today they pray outside and party inside. This reverse
dichotomy is true of a lot of social behavior in Iran. For many Iranians, this perverse state
of affairs is now so ingrained, such an inherent aspect of daily interactions with Iranian
officialdom, that it is no longer noteworthy. For those in the West who seek to better
understand what makes Tehran tick, though, the regime's curious fixation on sex cannot

be ignored.

To paraphrase the late U.S. House Speaker Tip O'Neill, in the Islamic Republic of Iran
all politics may not be sexual, but all sex is political. Exhibit A is the revolution's father, the
late Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. Like all Shiite clerics aspiring to become a source of
emulation (marja'’-e taglid), Khomeini spent the first part of his career meticulously
examining and dispensing religious guidance on personal behavior and ritual purity that
ranged from the mundane (It is reeommended not to hold back the need to urinate or

defecate, especially if it hurts) to the surprisingly lewd.

In his 1961 religious treatise A Clarification of Questions (Towzih al-Masael), Khomeini
issued detailed pronouncements on issues ranging from sodomy (If a man sodomizes
the son, brother, or father of his wife after their marriage, the marriage remains valid) to

bestiality (If a person has intercourse with a cow, a sheep, or a camel, their urine and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026553
