man to the upper world, is the tree of ten sefirot in which Yesod , the phallus,
occupies a central place. Now we’re allowed to know that G-spot stimulation of the
para-urethral glands in the female can result in spurt as well as a cup that runneth
over.

Other occasions of the temporal disappearance of the self-conscious |
occurred while doing the theorem and proof work of high school geometry. Axioms
and the rule bound processes of deduction created difficult journeys from that which
was given to what should be found. Rocking back and forth in a desk chair for
hours, chewing on fingernails, cuticles and pencil ends, time disappeared in a none
self aware state of work-a-day well-being. Sri Aurobindo’s Bhagadvad Gita
described this state as one of the rewards of karma yoga. Abulafia’s Kabalistic
School emphasized the importance of hitbodedut, detachment and seclusion in
concentrated thought, as a technique for the attainment of spiritual “intensification.”
Stacks of lined yellow paper piled up full of blind alleys as | lived in humbling
dumbness. One of my teachers of mathematics described it as the working
mathematician’s dark night of the soul. A breakthrough to a route from premises to
proof brought an expansive rush.

Engagement in a struggle to fuse two differing contextual worlds may be
transporting. Geometric visions can be used to do imageless algebra in a brain
state that feels like intuition. The brain does something like this: Let the number of a
sequence of unit squares, each side of measuring 0 to 1, be the denominator of a
series of fractions, say fifths. Now put five of these boxes in a row. Then the
sequence of all possible fifths, 0/5,1/5, 2/5,..5/5, is inscribed by cutting the vertical
sides of the five sequential squares with a diagonal from the lower left of the first
one to the upper right corner of the last. This line cuts each sequential square’s
front boundary with vertical lengths, 0.0, 0.2, 0.4...1.0 in a series of decimal
fractions equivalent to the sequence of all possible fifths, the proper fractions 1/5,
2/5...5/5. It was Abulafia’s kabalistic belief that symbolic, (algebraic), operations in
(geometric) spaces can unify the “upper” and “lower” worlds in the eternal tensions
between the body and soul, the inner world and the cosmos, the conflict making the

global system both sensitive and stable. The geometric-topological approach to

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013507
