primates, mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, fish, and insects. And of course, there are animals
populating every other continent and the seas that surround them. Among the social animals — those
living in groups — the common form of aggression is one-on-one, and the context is typically
competition over food, a place to rest, or access to a mate. Sometimes the aggression is initiated as an
attack and sometimes it is in self-defense. Sometimes it 1s highly ritualized and planned, and sometimes it
is areactive free-for-all. Sometimes it occurs within the group and sometimes between. Severe injuries
arise, but deaths are rare. The aim is to resolve a competitive dispute by means of non-lethal aggression,
and if possible, non-physical contact. If someone dies it is because an injury leaves them incapacitated or
vulnerable to disease. It is not because their opponent aimed to kill. The ubiquity of non-lethal aggression
points to a suite of common biological ingredients, a core set of neurobiological, hormonal and
psychological adaptations that constrain how animals fight.

It all starts with one individual perceiving a valuable resource that is within reaching distance of a
competitor. What launches a first move and subsequently guides the process to its completion with a
winner and a loser? In some species there are rules of thumb that deflate any aggressive instincts before
they are launched, even though there are clear competitive interests. For example, in territorial lizards
and birds, if an emigrating individual lands in an area and sees or hears another individual vigorously
displaying — push-ups with colorfully flashing neck sacs in lizards, vocal arias in birds — they move on.
The rule: territory owners win, no questions asked. Another rule of thumb arises in species organized
around either permanent or breeding-only harems: one male and many females. Two classic cases are the
well-studied hamadryas baboons of Ethiopia and the elephant seals of California. In both species, males
are much larger than females, with elephant seals providing an extreme case — the harem master can be
ten times bigger than the females he mates with. In hamadryas, no one challenges the male over access to
the females in his harem. Competition arises in acquiring females into a harem, a process that starts early,
with individual males recruiting juvenile females. In elephant seals, either one or a few males completely
monopolize the mating among the often hundred or more females within the harem. These males rule. As
evidenced by genetic fingerprinting, virtually all of the offspring are sired by 1-3 males. No mating
competition. Competition arises when the young turks try to wear down the harem master through
repeated challenges over the season. Eventually, often over the course of several mating seasons, the
harem master loses a fight and hangs up his gloves.

Dominance hierarchies provide another set of rules or norms that guide competition, and thus
aggression. In general, irrespective of the species, high ranking animals outcompete low ranking animals
for access to resources. If the spread between two individuals within the hierarchy is large, the
subordinate acts like a migrating lizard or bird landing in a resident’s territory: no contest, no competition,

no fighting. If the spread is less, say two individuals who hold adjacent positions within the hierarchy,

Hauser Chapter 1. Nature’s secrets 33

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012779
