adopted a sort of 1950s Jewish uncle (tough-guy variety) delivery, with assorted
Yiddishisms—Hillary Clinton, he declared, had been “shlonged” in the 2008 primary—
helping to give an inarticulate man an unexpected expressiveness. Now his daughter, a de
facto First Lady, was, through her conversion, the first Jew in the White House.

The Trump campaign and the White House were constantly supplying off-note
messages about Jews, from their equivocal regard for David Duke to their apparent desire
to tinker with Holocaust history—or at least tendency to stumble over it. At one point
early in the campaign, Trump’s son-in-law, challenged by his own staff at the New York
Observer and feeling pressure about his own bona fides, as well as seeking to stand by his
father-in-law, wrote an impassioned defense of Trump in an attempt to prove that he was
not an anti-Semite. For his efforts, Jared was rebuked by various members of his own
family, who clearly seemed worried about both the direction of Trumpism and Jared’s
opportunism.

There was also the flirtation with European populism. Whenever possible, Trump
seemed to side with and stoke Europe’s rising right, with its anti-Semitic associations,
piling on more portent and bad vibes. And then there was Bannon, who had allowed
himself to become—through his orchestration of right-wing media themes and stoking of
liberal outrage—a winking suggestion of anti-Semitism. It was certainly good right-wing
business to annoy liberal Jews.

Kushner, for his part, was the prepped-out social climber who had rebuffed all
entreaties in the past to support traditional Jewish organizations. When called upon, the
billionaire scion had refused to contribute. Nobody was more perplexed by the sudden rise
of Jared Kushner to his new position as Israel’s great protector than U.S. Jewish
organizations. Now, the Jewish great and the good, the venerated and the tried, the
mandarins and myrmidons, had to pay court to Jared Kushner ... who until little more than
a few minutes ago had truly been a nobody.

For Trump, giving Israel to Kushner was not only a test, it was a Jewish test: the
president was singling him out for being Jewish, rewarding him for being Jewish, saddling
him with an impossible hurdle for being Jewish—and, too, defaulting to the stereotyping
belief in the negotiating powers of Jews. “Henry Kissinger says Jared is going to be the
new Henry Kissinger,” Trump said more than once, rather a combined compliment and
slur.

Bannon, meanwhile, did not hesitate to ding Kushner on Israel, that peculiar right-wing
litmus test. Bannon could bait Jews—globalist, cosmopolitan, Davoscentric liberal Jews
like Kushner—because the farther right you were, the more correct you were on Israel.
Netanyahu was an old Kushner family friend, but when, in the fall, the Israeli prime
minister came to New York to meet with Trump and Kushner, he made a point of seeking
out Steve Bannon.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019990
