Liebovitch, 1998).

We see that the Hurst exponent, Fano and Allen factors, Levy exponent and
power spectral scaling exponent are kindred statistical descriptors. They are most
usefully applicable to systems with distributions that fail to be Gaussian or
asymmetrically Poisson, the latter from random data sequences with only positive x
values, thus backed up toward zero by a minimum inter-event interval or amplitude.
These time series are sequentially dependent, not conventionally stationary, without
finite central moments and with self-correlations that don’t demonstrate Gaussian
exponential decay with sample length or time. The following are some examples of

the use of these measures in studies of biological dynamics. .

Examples of Biological Data with Divergent Distributions and Power Law

Scaling

A paradigm challenging group of experiments involved models and measures
of the distribution of characteristic open and closed times of membrane ion
conductance channels. The usual approach to this problem assumed the existence
of a small set of distinguishable channel types that were reflected in discrete
conductance events with a small set of characteristic open and closed times. The
distributions of each of could be fitted with its own, Markov process derived,
exponential. With technical advances and improved temporal resolution, more
characteristic times and their associated a = 2 exponentials were reported with as
many as three not being unusual. Liebovitch (and Sullivan,1987; 1989) used
analogue to digital transformation of current recordings from the unselective corneal
epithelial channels and voltage dependent potassium channels in cultured mouse
hippocampal cells at temporal resolutions ranging from 170 to 5000 Hz and found
similarly shaped, a < 2, nonconvergent distributions across temporal scales. This
led these investigators to suggest that, related to the >16 recorded magnitudes of
characteristic times, from picoseconds to months, in autonomous protein motion
(Careri et al, 1975; Gurd and Rothgeb, 1979), that there was an “a stable” hierarchy

211

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013711
