at $1.00 per click, the more you spend, and thus the more traffic you drive, the more statistically valid
the results will be. If budget permits, increase the number of related terms and daily expenditure so
that the entire PPC test costs $500—-1,000.

46. This is a checking account for receiving credit card payments.
47. Set this up using services detailed at the end of this chapter and the next.

48. See the online bonus chapter on www.fourhourblog.com to understand all of these terms in
context. Search “Jedi Mind Tricks.”

49. “Paper trading” refers to setting an imaginary budget, “purchasing” stocks (writing their current
values on a piece of paper), and then tracking their performance over time to see how your investment
would have done had it been for real. It is a no-risk method for honing investment skills before
putting skin in the game.

®

Income Autopilot II

>» MBA—MANAGEMENT BY ABSENCE

The factory of the future will have only two employees, a man and a dog. The man will be there
to feed the dog. The dog will be there to keep the man from touching the equipment.

— WARREN G. BENNIS, University of Southern California Professor of Business Administration;
adviser to Ronald Reagan and John F. Kennedy

Max entrepreneurs don’t start out with automation as a goal. This leaves them open to mass

confusion in a world where each business guru contradicts the next. Consider the following:

A company is stronger if it is bound by love rather than by fear.... If the employees come first,
then they’re happy.

— HERB KELLEHER, cofounder of Southwest Airlines

Look, kiddie. I built this business by being a bastard. I run it by being a bastard. Pll always be
a bastard, and don’t you ever try to change me 30

—CHARLES REVSON, founder of Revlon, to a senior executive within his company

Hmm ... Whom to follow? If you are fast on your feet, you’ll notice that I just offered you an either-
or option. The good news is that, as usual, there is a third option.

The contradictory advice you find in business books and elsewhere usually relates to managing

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013922
