Code Enforcement Board Meeting Minutes 07/17/08

Sgt. Krauel continued his presentations remarking that once Duke had been found
“potentially dangerous” by Animal Care and Control, there had been another
attack but due to an administrative error by Animal Care and Control by failing to
document their records appropriately, Duke was classified as “potentially
dangerous” again. This is an error that Animal Care and Control completely
acknowledges.

After the last attack on May 11, 2008, Duke was taken into custody by Animal
Care and Control and after a hearing, was classified as “dangerous”. Sgt. Krauel
noted that the hearing before Special Magistrate Earl Mallory did not classify
Duke as vicious because Duke had no documented cases of attacks on humans.
After this last case was reviewed by Code Enforcement, sufficient evidence was
also found to classify Duke as dangerous and Dr. Lynn was notified by registered
mail. Dr. Lynn appealed to Town Council and that appeal was denied by Town
Council by a 5-0 vote. The Town recommends a finding of non-compliance with
Chapter 10, Section 10-6 as the Town has the two required affidavits of residents
of the Town occupying separate households. The Board had been provided with
copies of four (4) affidavits.

Sgt. Krauel then proceeded with an explanation of Chapter 10, Section 10-45 and
said the Town was requesting a separate motion for a finding of non-compliance of
Chapter 10, Section 10-45 (1) and that he be given until July 18, 2008 to come into
compliance by either removing the dog from the Town or having it humanely
euthanized. If compliance is not achieved, the Town recommends a daily fine of
$250.00 a day commence on July 19, 2008 and continue until compliance is
achieved.

Mr. Randolph requested that the Board treat these two sections of the Code
separate and apart. He said the first evidence heard related to Section 10-6 (3)
and involved the affidavits from the residents of the Town. Because of the dispute
Dr. Lynn’s attorney has with regard to the manner that Section 10-45 was applied,
he recommended that the two Code sections not be mixed up. Mr. Randolph said
he would like for the Board to first consider whether there had been a violation of
10-6 and to make a motion one way or the other with regard to the Staff's
recommendation. He then requested that Section 10-45 be entertained separately
after Dr. Lynn’s attorney and anyone else who wanted to speak had an opportunity
to do so.

Vivian Dorris, 155 Brazilian Ave. said her beagle/bassett, Charlie, was viciously
attacked by Dr. Lynn’s dog, Duke and she has sustained approximately $8500 in
vet’s bills. She said her dog will never walk properly again because of severe
nerve damage. She does not feel there are enough precautions being taken for the
safety of residents on Brazilian Ave. She asked that the Board take this into
consideration and thanked them for their service.

Wayne Gerl, 149 Brazilian Ave. said he has two dogs and every time he exits his
driveway or front yard, he has to stop and peek around and make sure the other

8

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016581
