... But unlike the wonderful “one-hoss shay,” the productive life of educational
capital typically does not go to pieces all at once. It depreciates along the way, it
becomes obsolete, it is altered by changes in retirement and by the state of
employment ...

... As already noted, educational capital, like reproducible physical capital, is subject
to depreciation and obsolescence. The established tax treatment takes account of
both depreciation and obsolescence in the case of physical capital, but this
accounting is not extended to education capital... In brief, our tax laws... appear to
be all but blind to the fact that educational capital entrails maintenance and
depreciation, becomes obsolete, and disappears at death...

These excerpts clearly show Shultz’ meanings of pure and invested consumption,
and of human deprecation. He says “pure investment” in place of my “invested
consumption”, but I prefer to follow tradition by applying “invested” to physical
capital alone. We also see his belief, with which | disagree, that substantial invested
consumption continues after independence and physical maturity. For example, he
writes “Direct expenditures on ... health and internal migration ... are clear
examples.” I interpret these outlays, when applied to adult workers, as maintenance
consumption preserving rather than adding skills, and enabling current pay rather

than invested for higher pay later.

| agree that self-invested work “to improve skills and knowledge ... accounts for
most of the impressive rise in the real earnings per worker ...”. But | don’t share
Schultz’ view that the “use of leisure time” accounts for much of this improvement.
My years in plants and oilfields and offices have given me an impression of some
study by workers during leisure time, but mostly passive accumulation of

experience and insight while fully at work on the job.

Practical Uses

One obvious use of the human capital idea is to compare the factors (human and
tradeable capital) in the same dimension. Capital and labor cannot be added, as

Petty knew, since capital is measured in dollars where labor is measured in dollars

Chapter 5 Bringing Human Capital In 1/13/16 4

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011023
