appearance before the grand jury in the Southern District of Florida. This
conversation occurred when Mr. Epstein was aboard his privately owned civilian
aircraft in Miami in the Southern District of Florida. His pilot had filed a flight
plan showing the parties were about to return to Teterboro, NJ. After the
conversation with Ms. Groff, Mr. Epstein became concerned that the FBI would
try to serve his traveling companion, Nadia Marcinkova, with a similar grand jury
subpoena. In fact, the agents were preparing to serve Ms. Marcinkova with a
target letter when the flight landed in Teterboro. Mr. Epstein then redirected his
airplane, making the pilot file a new flight plan to travel to the US Virgin Islands
instead of the New York City area, thereby keeping the Special Agents from
serving the target letter on Nadia Marcinkova.. During the flight, the defendant
verbally harassed Ms. Marcinkova, harassing and pressuring her not to cooperate
with the grand jury's investigation, thereby hindering and dissuading her from
reporting the commission of a violation of federal law to a law enforcement
officer, namely, Special Agents of the FBI. Epstein also threatened and harassed
Sarah Kellen against cooperating against him as well.

21. | Edwards learned that the Palm Beach police department investigation ultimately
led to the execution of a search warrant at Epstein’s mansion in October 2005. See Police
Incident Report, Exhibit “A”.

: 22. Edwards learned that at around the same time, the Palm Beach Police Department
also began investigating Epstein’s sexual abuse of minor sits, They also collected evidence of
Epstein’ involvement with minor girls and his obsession with training sex slaves, including
pulling information from Epstein’s trash. Their investigation showed that Epstein ordered from
Amazon.com on about September 4, 2005, such books as: SM101: A Realistic Introduction, by
Jay Wiseman; SlaveCraft: Roadmaps for Erotic Servitude - Principles, Skills, and Tools, by Guy
Baldwin; and Training with Miss Abernathy: A Workbook for Erotic Slaves and Their Owners,
by Christina Abernathy. See Receipt for Sex Slave Books (Exhibit “I’).

23. The Palm Beach incident reports provided Edwards with the names of numerous

witnesses that participated in Epstein’s child molestation criminal enterprise and also provided

1]

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013329
