89

Nevertheless Snowden applied for the job. Since it handled higher level secret documents,
Booz Allen had stricter requirements for applicants than Dell. To slip by them, Snowden engaged
in a minor subterfuge. He wrote on his application that he was expecting a master’s degree from
the online division of Liverpool University in England. In fact, he had not completed a single
course at Liverpool, and would not be receiving any sort of a degree from it. Booz Allen, not fully
taking into account the discrepancy in his application, agreed to hire him as a trainee-analyst (and
it did not change that decision even after it found out about his subterfuge.). According to
Admiral McConnell, Snowden never actually worked in the Booz Allen offices, which are housed
in a skyscraper in downtown Honolulu. Instead, he was immediately assigned to work at the
NSA’s highly-sensitive National Operations Threat Center in the tunnel at the Kunia base.

Before he could begin working there, however, he needed to fly to Maryland to take a
mandatory orientation course at the NSA. The course was given in an 11 story building, with a
sheer wall of black glass, on the NSA’s 350 acre campus at Fort Meade in Maryland. He arrived
there from Hawaii on April 1, 2013. Like every other Booz Allen contractors who work at the
NSA’s Center, Snowden was required to sign the “Sensitive Compartmented Information Non-
Disclosure Agreement.” In this document, Snowden acknowledged that he had been granted
access to sensitive compartmented information, called SCI, as part of his work and that he
understood that any disclosure of that information to an unauthorized person would violate
federal criminal law. He was also told, as were all new contract employees a Booz Allen that its
disclosure could damage the interest of the United States and benefit its enemies. In signing it, he
swore an oath not to divulge any of this information without first receiving written approval from
US authorities. So less than two months before he downloaded Sensitive Compartmented
Information, he was fully aware of what would be the consequences of divulging this information.
By this time, as discussed in the previous chapter, he had agreed to deliver classified data to three
journalists.

On April 5, 2013, while still in the training facility in Maryland, he apparently sought to
establish a paper trail for himself. He wrote a letter to NSA’s General Counsel Office asking
whether or not NSA directives take precedence over acts of Congress. A lawyer from the Office
of General Counsel responded three days later, addressing Snowden as “Dear Ed.” The lawyer
said, agreeing with Snowden, that acts of Congress take precedence over NSA directives. He
also suggested that “Ed” phone him if he needed any further clarification. Presumably, Snowden
had written the letter to elicit a response that he could later use to bolster his claim to be a whistle-
blower. Instead, the “Dear Ed” response was of little use to Snowden, as it did not dispute his
point that NSA directives must lawfully conform to the acts of Congress. The NSA lawyer did
not ever hear back from “Ed.”

Snowden completed his orientation course at Fort Meade on Friday April 12°2013. While he
was in Maryland Snowden, he took time off to pay visits to both of his divorced parents. It would
be the last time he would see either of them in the United States.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020241
