3) Historically, sex has usually been defined in terms of two things: (a) reproduction,
and (b) the sexual pleasure of stereotypical men. Cultural sexual standards are based
on these things. For example, the sexual base system; if you've read my work before
then you'll have seen me talk about it a lot, because it's such a perfect example. It's
commonly discussed among USA schoolchildren and it describes kissing as first base,”
groping as second base, oral sex as third base and penis-in-vagina sex as home
base.” Why should this hierarchy exist? It only makes sense if we think of sex as being
centered around reproduction. If we think of sex as being about pleasure and open
exploration in ways that are different for everyone, then having a home base -- a
standardized goal -- makes zero sense.

Another example: penis-in-vagina sex is often seen as real sex or actual sex, with all
other sex considered less real. How many arguments have you had over the course of
your lifetime about whether oral sex counts as sex? (Hint: more than the subject
deserves.) For a recent example, there's the Kink.com virgin shoot, wherein a porn model
publicly lost her virginity notwithstanding the fact that she'd already had plenty of oral
and anal sex on camera for years -- she'd just never had vaginal sex.

As for sex being defined by the pleasure of stereotypical men: one example is how people
usually think about orgasms. In my experience and that of people I talk to -- and in the
vast majority of porn -- it seems commonly accepted that sexual activity ends with a
man's orgasm, whereas women are commonly expected to continue engaging in sex after
having an orgasm... despite the fact that many women seem just as tired and less-
interested in sex post-orgasm as many men are. In part, this goes back to defining sex in
terms of reproduction: men have to orgasm in order for reproduction to happen, so men's
orgasms must (supposedly) be central to sex. It's all influenced by these other
constructions, like how penis-in-vagina sex is real sex, or home base: many people
are confused by the idea that you'd shift sexual gears to (for example) manual stimulation
if you've already made it to home base. But it also arises from centering stereotypical
men’s desires -- from a culture that just generally sees them as more important, more
driving, and more necessary than women's. (Note that the majority of women don't
achieve orgasm from penis-in-vagina sex in itself.)

When sex is defined in terms of reproduction and stereotypical male pleasure, the
following things result:

+ People who aren't men have a harder time understanding their sexuality, because there
are fewer models (for example: it's fairly common for women to figure out how to have
orgasms much later in life than the average man -- like 20s or 30s, if ever)

+ Men who don't fit masculine stereotypes have a harder time understanding their
sexuality (for example: there's a great essay by a former men's magazine editor in the
anthology Best Sex Writing 2010 in which he talks about how hard it was for him to come
to terms with his desire for heavy women)

+ Even men who do fit masculine stereotypes feel limited from other types of
exploration, and may derive less pleasure from sex than they would in a less broken
world

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018481
