It won’t surprise you that, in recent years, for instance, the world has seen an
acceleration in the construction of physical barriers, of fences and walls running
between nations and defining and in and out. Roy Hassner and Jason Wittenberg,
two American political scientists, scored out the pace of global wall building and
found a sharp acceleration: In fact, of 51 national enclosures built since the end of
World War Two - the Berlin Wall being the most famous example - more than half
were constructed in a rush of self-protection between 2000 and 201426, And more
are coming: Hungary, Kenya, Algeria and India now posthole their borders in initial
exploration of what might be built. There’s a frantic urgency to some of this. The
Spanish government, for instance, raised a ten-foot high, razor and camera topped
fence around their Saharan footholds in 1998 - the enclosed land was controlled by
Madrid, so it was technically “Europe,” which made an irresistible target for would-
be migrants. The fence wasn’t enough to stop the flows. So they built a second one to
run around the first in 2001. Then, in 2005, thousands of desperate Africans
launched a coordinated charge against. A couple of dozen migrants died in the
attempt; a thousand made it through. The Spanish responded with a third line of
fence, this one 20 feet high, electic, camera-watched.

This pattern of ever more stacked defense is repeated everywhere. The walls, fences
and trenches of the modern world seem to be getting longer, more ambitions, and
better defended with each passing year, Hassner and Wittenberg concluded. Unlike
traditional lines of defense, the Maginot Line or the Great Wall of China for instance,
the aim of 21st century barriers in places like Israel or the US or Spanish Morocco
have been less to stop a rolling armor blitzkreig than to slow the insidious
movement of smugglers and spies and criminals, or the hopeful dashes of fleeing
refugees. There’s an affective and - to those on the inside - appealing asymmetry to
these borders. They are mostly marked and built by richer, more modern, more
stable nations desperate to control in and out. The creation of gates is, we should
sense now, the corollary of connection. That they can sometimes be piled into the
“winner take all” efficiencies Brian Arthur first teased out should give us a sense that
there is a logic to this emergence.

Reviewing the problems of deadly disease contagion after the 2015 Ebola pandemic,
Bill Gates examined this connection-and-gate lemma in the sharpest, most
worrisome historical terms. “There is a significant chance that an epidemic ofa
substantially more infectious disease will occur sometime in the next 20 years,” he
wrote. “In fact, of all the things that could kill more than 10 million people around
the world, the most likely is an epidemic stemming from either natural causes or
bioterrorism.”23” This was the cost of a fast-moving, interconnected world. It was
what floated free from the extension of Paul Virilio’s line: Airplanes produced the

236 In fact: Roy Hassner and Jason Wittenberg, “Barriers to Entry: Who Builds
Fortified Boundaries and Why?” International Security, Vol. 40, No. 1 (Summer
2015), pp. 157-190

237 Reviewing the problem: Bill Gates, “The Next Epidemic — Lessons from Ebola”
New England Journal of Medicine 2015, April 9; 372:1381-1384

164

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018396
