CRE market across its footprint it noted some caution around the health of the
market in Denver.
Chart 31: What is the primary reason keeping you from buying/increasing exposure in GWB?
40% 38% 38%
35%
30%
25%
20%
15%
10%
5%
0%

29%

Ag exposure, as the weakness Stock valuation, see better © Cautious commentary around
in the farm sector increases risk/reward elsewhere loan growth during 3016
credit risk earnings

Source: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research

= Ag portfolio offers unique opportunity, but management believes fears
overstated. As of 3Q16, ag loans represented 25% of the total portfolio (36% in
grains, 50% in proteins and 14% in other). Tied for first at 38% as a reason why
investors are hesitant to increase exposure to GWB resonates from the bank’s ag
exposure. While lower grain prices may constrain cash flow on those loans near-
term, Mr. Chapman noted that this is offset by stronger yields. Management also
highlighted the relatively low losses observed historically in this portfolio given the
significant experience within GWB's management ranks in lending to this segment,
including in the 1980s the last stress period for the farm sector. That said,
management remains committed to this business as it is key to GWB’s footprint.

= Management reiterated its commitment to actively manage excess capital.
Although management is comfortable with its current capital levels (3Q: 9.5% tier 1
leverage), Mr. Chapman noted the bank’s preference is to put its excess capital to
work. Management reminded investors of the criteria it looks for in a potential
target. While they continue to look for opportunities within their footprint,
specifically [A and KS, they remain disciplined. In addition to its recently authorized
repurchase program of $100mn, management believes a total payout ratio of 30%
is maintainable.

IBERIABANI (IBKC), B-1-7, Buy

Focused on moving closer to its strategic targets: President and CEO Daryl Byrd
and Senior Vice President John Davis were upbeat around the outlook for economic
growth across IBKC’s 10 state footprint as the bank looks out into 2017. While
management has thus far not provided any specific guidance for 2017, we expect
this to be forthcoming in conjunction with the announcement of 4Q16 results in
January. Moreover, management sounded cautiously optimistic that pro-growth
policies (if implemented) coupled with some relief on the regulatory front under the
new Trump administration could lead to a much stronger growth outlook

« Energy credit costs should trend lower: Management noted the overall energy
portfolio should continue to trend lower but is expected to moderate as run-off in
stressed energy loans (and loan payoffs) are partially offset by new energy loans,
with management looking to selectively lend again in the sector. Moreover, with
energy criticized loans peaking in 1Q16, management expects the criticized loans to
trend lower barring any major declines in oil prices.

BankofAmerica <2”

20 2016 Future of Financials Conference | 17 November 2016 Merrill Lynch

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014334
