JaMES PATTERSON

of, and means of obtaining, oxycodone and hydrocodone. (A few
years after Limbaugh's arrest, which coincided with Chief Reit-
er’s investigation into Jeffrey Epstein, the talk-show host settled
with prosecutors, agreed to submit to random drug testing, and

gave up his firearms permit.)
Krischer himself, however, had been accused of sexual

misconduct.
In October of 1992, Jodi Bergeron, a legal secretary who'd worked

for Krischer, filed a sexual harassment lawsuit against him in the

Palm Beach County circuit court. That suit was dismissed, but a few

s later, the woman took Krischer to federal court, accusing

month
him of making unwanted advances and demanding recompense for

battery, negligence, invasion of privacy, and emotional distress.

Krischer had placed his hands, violently, inside her blouse,
the woman said. He’d forcibly fondled her breasts, forcibly kissed
her, and rubbed her shoulders while brushing her buttocks with
his hands and knees, all while accompanying the gestures with
verbal advances.

When she declined those advances, the woman claimed,

Krischer fired her.

Krischer denied the allegations. At the time, he was making his
frst run for the state attorney's office. The charges were politically
motivated, he said. Members of a local chapter of NOW—the
National Organization for Women—had stood by the lawyer, cit-
violence, among his other virtues.

ing his efforts to stop domestic
her for the work his office

“I am here to support Barry Krisc
did in my daughter's case,” one woman said during a
took place in front of the courthouse.
the maximum sentence, a life sentence.”

The second lawsuit had also been dismissed—a

164

rally that — ;

“Her murderer received

fer Krischer's ~

iz

i

former law firm agreed
sand dollars in legal fees

Now Chief Reiter and De
their own questions abc
wanted to charge Epsteii
behavior and four cour
minor—felony charges
behind bars in the case c
Kellen would be charged

This was not.the plaa
for Jeffrey Epstein.

In cases involving tk
attorneys tend to have s
But instead of granting I
the police that he would
asked to consider a broac

Ina case such as Epste
ing in and of itself. But v
only required in capital cas
may also be called in c
involving crimes committ
wasn't a public official, an
cerned, the only controver
that Epstein was rich an
B.B. vs. Epstein, Chief Reit

; €cutor had to make sure t

able doubt. And Krischer |

4 of the young women whot

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010505
