Insurance premiums have increased significantly in the past and may increase in the future because of
market conditions in the insurance business generally, conditions in the child care industry more
particularly or KLC's situation specifically. KLC cannot be certain of the cost or coverage it will obtain with
replacements of existing policies, which will depend on the factors described above.

6.1.16 Factors beyond the Company’s control, such as economic conditions, may
adversely affect the demand for child care services

Demand for child care services is subject to fluctuations in general econemic conditions, and the
Company's revenues depend, in part, on the number of working mothers and working single parents who
require child care services. Recessionary pressure on the economy, and a consequent reduction in the
general labor force, may adversely impact the Company because out-of-work parents tend to stop using
child care services. In addition, certain demographic trends which are favorable to the Company's
business, including the increasing percentage of mothers in the workforce and the growth in population of
children of the age needing child care, as well as trends in the preference of working parents and
employers for center based child care, may not continue. Other factors beyond the Company's control
could adversely affect demand, such as terrorism, natural disasters and epidemics.

Children attending KLC’s facilities are generally enrolled on a weekly basis. Accordingly, any change in
economic conditions or other external factors affecting demand will impact us more quickly than
businesses with longer contractual periods.

6.1.17 Aloss or reduction of government funding for child care assistance programs or
food reimbursement programs could adversely affect KLC

Federal and state child care assistance programs accounted for approximately 20% of KLC's revenues
during the one year period ended December 31, 2005. These funds are primarily from the Child Care
and Development Block Grant and At Risk Programs, which are designed to assist low-income families
with child care expenses and are administered through various state agencies. Although additional
funding for child care may be available for low income families as part of welfare reform and the
reauthorization of the Child Care and Development Block Grant and At Risk Programs, KLC may not
benefit from any such additional funding.

KLC is eligible to participate in the Child and Adult Care Food Program, or CACFP, which provides
reimbursement for meals and snacks that meet certain USDA approved nutritional guidelines. Centers
can qualify to participate in the CACFP by meeting one of two tests: 25% or more of the enrolled students
receive child care assistance funding or 25% or more of the center's customers have household incomes
that are at or below state specified Income levels. Reimbursement is calculated based on the percentage
of the center's customers thai fall into a “free” or reduced income category established by the state.

Federal or state child care assistance programs may not continue to be funded at current levels,
particularly with large budget deficits putting pressure on discretionary spending programs. In addition,
many states have recently experienced fiscal problems and have reduced or may in the future reduce
spending on social services. A termination or reduction in funding of child care assistance programs
could have a material adverse effect on KLC's business.

Adverse changes to the national or local economies may result in an increase in the number of families
eligible for child care assistance. In order to compensate for such increases, state or jocal governments
have in the past, and may in the future, increased parent co-payments required under such programs or
change the eligibility requirements to reduce the number of families eligible to participate in such
programs. An increase in the required parent co-payments may discourage parents from sending their
children to KLC's centers, An increase in required parent co-payments also increases KLC's exposure to
the risk of non-payment by these parents.

In addition, states which reduce funding for child care may be unable to qualify to receive funds under the
Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, or TANF, program. Such states may utilize funds under the

51

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024484
