complaint, were in fact there but this was a formal banquet with individuals and their partners, which I
attended long enough to agree to sign things and do selfies before leaving early because I was tired. Even if I
had any such intent it would have been lunacy to pose for selfies in front of a group and openly do such a
thing, including presumably in front of this person’s partner, . Which, besides the fact that I don’t do such
things, is one of the many reasons it never happened.)

What makes this particular type of allegation so repugnant is that I get asked for literally thousands of selfies,
and when people come up to me they are vulnerable, often shaking, or sometimes aggressive. I am particularly
proud of the way I work to make all people feel at ease, and respected, rather than humiliated, whatever their
behavior or request. Thus, this false claim strikes at the heart of what I am about, which characterizes all my
interactions with fans: to acknowledge them in a way that makes them feel appreciated and respected. As I
understand you had a reporter watching me sign books and take selfies at the CFI conference in Las Vegas this
year, that behavior is what they will have witnessed and should report on. Moreover, I am proud of the
interactions I have had at both Case and ASU, with students, colleagues and staff of all genders and

ethnicities. I have worked hard to support them, mentor them, and treat them with respect. I treat others as
responsible adults, and I expect to be treated equally.

On Dec 10, 2017, at 6:12 PM, Peter Aldhous wrote:

Dr. Krauss:

As you know, I’m a reporter for BuzzFeed News who has been investigating sexual misconduct allegations
against you. As we've already discussed by email, I’d very much like to interview you about these allegations
in detail.

In particular, you stated in an email sent on Nov 13 that two universities had investigated an incident (# 6
below). You claimed that “both Universities independently concluded that the report was unsubstantiated and
fabricated with malicious intent.” We are not aware that either university concluded fabrication or malicious
intent, so if you have evidence to support this assertion, we would like to see and discuss it.

The story concerns your actions towards students while a professor of physics at Case Western Reserve
University, as well as your conduct in non-academic settings as a prominent figure in the skeptics movement.
| am reporting this story along with two of my colleagues on the science desk, Azeen Ghorayshi and Virginia
Hughes.

Our story is about several allegations of sexual misconduct dating from 2006 to 2016 (see full details below).
Our reporting also goes into how the various institutions you have been affiliated with — Case Western,
Arizona State University, the Australian National University, the New College of the Humanities, and the
Center for Inquiry, for which you serve as an honorary member of the board of directors — have handled
complaints and concerns about your behavior during this time.

Our story is corroborated by emails, university documents, official complaints, testimony from victims and
eyewitnesses, and interviews with more than two dozen of your current and former academic colleagues,
students, and peers in the skeptics movement.

| wanted to offer you the opportunity to comment and/or respond to the main facts we plan to publish. If you
wish to comment on any of the below findings, we need to hear from you as soon as possible. We are
planning on publishing our story Tuesday morning, Eastern US Time.

Based on our reporting, this is what we plan to publish:

Incident 1:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031437
