NAUTIL.US

to therapy when the same therapy has failed other
patients.

Remission: a decline or disappearance of signs and
symptoms of cancer.

READING COMPREHENSION
1. Why are orphan diseases underfunded?

2. How does the mutation in calpain 3 cause muscle
to fail to grow?

3. What are some reasons pharmaceutical com-
panies would want to develop drugs for orphan
diseases? What are some possible reasons they
would be against doing so?

4. Statistically speaking, outliers are often ignored.
In this story, why 1s patient number 45 such an
interesting case? Why is it generally important to
study the outliers of response?

5. Which protein’s activity 1s blocked by evero-
limus? What is the function of this particular
protein?

DISCUSSION QUESTIONS

1. In what contexts would it be desirable and unde-
sirable to sequence your genome to see if you
are at risk for a disease? What are the benefits
and downsides of knowing if you are at risk for a
particular disease?

2. In both pieces, mutations are responsible for
causing disease. Compare and contrast the ways
mutations can lead to muscular dystrophy and
cancer. Are the mutations in one case hereditary?
Are mutations leading to either disease caused
by environmental factors? Are the mutations in
either case preventable? If so, how could they be
prevented?

3. How should doctors and scientists decide
whether to work on a rare condition?

TEXT SETS

ACTIVITIES

Some genes are not specific to humans, but rather,
are common to myriad species. In a smaller group,
you will be assigned to read about one of the pro-
teins listed here: http://nautil.us/issue/5/fame/
genes-that-won-the-fame-game

Please answer the following questions when itis your turn
to presentto theclass:

1. What organisms is the gene present in? Were you
surprised by the presence of the gene in any of
the organisms listed? Ifso, why?

2. Ifthis protern was mutated, what could the con-
sequences look like? Could it cause a disease?

3. Research and present one other case of an outlier
being useful in science or medicine.

WHERE THIS FITS IN THE CURRICULUM

Structure and Function (HS-LS1-1) A cell contains
genetic information in the form of DNA molecules.
Genes are regions in the DNA that contain the
instructions that code for the formation of proteins,
which carry out most of the work of cells.

Variation of Traits (HS-LS3-2) Although DNA repli-
cation 1s tightly regulated and remarkably accurate,
errors do occur and result in mutations, which are
also a source of genetic variation. Mutations can, in
turn, cause disease and/or affect human health. The
pattern of mutations can also predict response to
drugs.

Inheritance and Variation of Traits - Environmental
Factors (HS-LS3-3) Technological advances have
influenced the progress of science and science has
influenced advances in technology. Technologies have
evolved to sequence human genes, which can better
inform doctors of their patients’ health. Likewise,
pharmaceutical companies have also created many
drugs for the treatment of human disease.

29

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015489
