- Ready for M&A: While a depressed valuation (due to the volatility surrounding oil
prices) had kept IBKC out of M&A, given the recovery in valuation it noted its desire
to pursue potential deals across its footprint. Management also noted that while
the recent move in equity markets had pushed up valuations for potential publicly
traded sellers, it sees significant opportunity among the privately held banks that
may look for a merger partner to gain liquidity and monetize the improving
sentiment surrounding bank stocks. From a size standpoint, management did not
rule out larger deals. This is not surprising given that IBKC has not shied away from
pursuing relatively large sized deals previously.

+ Rate increase to boost the margin: In terms of its interest rate sensitivity,
management noted that it retains an asset sensitive balance sheet, with a potential
25 basis point move in the Fed Funds rate expected to add 5c to quarterly EPS.
That said, management recognized that slower mortgage activity due to rising long
rates could temper the revenue outlook for its mortgage business.

Chart 32: What is the biggest factor that prevents you from owning or adding exposure to IBKC?

60%

50%

40%

30%

20%

10%

0%

Energy exposure Potential that the bank will Valuation, see better
enter into a large M&A deal risk/reward elsewhere

Source: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research

JPMorgan Chase & Co (JPM), B-1-7, Buy
Pent up demand from macro uncertainty offers growth opportunity. Doug
Pento, CEO of JPM’s Commercial Bank, sounded optimistic around the opportunity
within commercial banking from the pent-up demand in the market that was
constrained by the uncertainty surrounding the election. In addition, he highlighted
the increased opportunity generated by JPM’s expansion into 44 new markets since
2008, specifically in LA. This coincides with 62% of the audience polled who believe
top-line revenue growth is most important for the stock to continue its
outperformance.

Bankof America isa
Merrill Lynch 2016 Future of Financials Conference | 17 November 2016 21

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014335
