NAUTILUS EDUCATION | BETA PRODUCT

Genetics & Human Health

Since DNA 1s often heralded as the “code of life,’ what clues can mutations—changes to the DNA
sequence—tell us about human health and disease? The pair of articles in the Genetics and Human
Health module will explore the consequences of mutations in the context of cancer treatment
and rare diseases such as muscular dystrophy. 7heir Giant Steps to a Cure discusses the challenges
associated with treating a rare form of muscular dystrophy. An Unlikely Cure Signals Hope for
Cancer explores how specific mutations in a patient’s cancer can be used to a patient’s advantage.

Lesson Plan

Ask students to read both of the articles for homework. Briefly introduce or review the vocabulary words in class.
Assign the questions listed under “Reading Comprehension” for them to complete along with the reading and
ask them to come up with one question for further discussion.

Start class by asking students if they have any questions about the readings. Ask them to contribute their discus-
sion questions (in addition to the ones provided under Deep Thinking / Discussion questions). Have the class
brainstorm and answer both discussion questions. 15 MIN .

Next, break the class up into four groups for the Suggested Activity. Assign each group to one protein that 1s listed
in the interactive. 15 MIN.

Have each group present their thoughts to the class for further discussion. 15 MIN.

Teacher’s Notes: Their Giant Steps to a Cure, and An Unlikely Cure Signals Hope for Cancer

VOCAB WORDS

Muscular dystrophy: a genetic disease marked by of proximal (limb-girdle) muscles.

rogressive weakening of the muscles. Some forms of . . . .
progr & Cancer: A term used to describe disease in which

abnormal cells divide without control and are able to
Orphan diseases: diseases that have yet to be “adopt- invade into other tissues. Cancers are often catego-
ed” by the pharmaceutical industry because there are rized based on the organ or cell type they originate in.
very few incentives to develop new medications to
treat or prevent them. Orphan diseases can be rare
or they are common diseases that have been ignored

muscular dystrophy are seen in infancy or childhood.

Oncologist: A doctor who specializes in treating
patients with cancer.

(e.g.: tuberculosis, cholera, typhoid, malaria). Outlier: An observation that deviates from a major-
ity and can be seen to be a rare event. In the context

Calpainopathy: a rare type of muscular dystrophy of this piece, the outliers are patients who respond

characterized by symmetric and progressive weakness

28

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015488
