IMTA; some of ihese discoveries include world-renowned actors such as, Elijah
Woods. Ashfon futcher, Katie Holmes. Eva Longona. Jessica Biel, and Sean
Wiliam Scot. Attached as EXHIBIT 11. please find information tegarding the
extremely successful and prestigious modeling and fashion association, IMTA.
Addilionally, please find several pages from IMTA's afficial website documenting
{heir discovery of the above-mentioned A-list actors and aciresses, whose
membership in IMTA proved io be ihe launching pad for very successful and
highly profitable careers in the film industry.

Furthermore, as previously mentioned. Mr. Brunel has lovnched the
successiul careers of many internationally renowned models, who have been
featured and still cre in mony intemational and national fashion magazines. In
addition, his commercial ventures. especially MCZ Model. formerly Karin
Models, have been extremely successful generating combined annual revenues
of twenty five (25) million dollars. Currenily MC2 is one of the most successtul and
well-known modeling agencies in ihe world. Mr. Brunel is one of few people in
the modieling business {hai have achieved o similar standing and have been
able io maintain it for over twenly-live years.

For the above-mentioned reasons. Mr. Brunel satisfies INA §214,2(0){3) [iv] [B) {4}.

JARY MEET ¢

The pelitioner has submilied a plethora of evidence regarding Mr. Brunel's
experience in the fashion modeling industry. Mr. Brunel's has esfablished MC2
Models, formerly Karin Models, which is presenily one of the major iniemational
modeling agencies, wiih combined annual revenues of twenty five million
dollars. Only someone with Mr. Brunel's expertise and sirong sinve for success
can achieve such injemational acclamotion in the indusiry and been able io
maintain his siatus for over twenty-five years. Mr. Brunel is lhe one responsible for
ine launch of numerous supermodels’ careers. which have been maintained in
ihe spoilighi fer several years. He has worked wilh renowned fashion designers
and photographers, who have trusted his work and intuifion. In addhlion, Mr.
Brunel has aichesirated many internolional and national successful fashion
events thal have received inlemoational acclamation.

For the above-mentioned reasons. Mr. Brunel in oddifion lo meeting al least
three of the criteria of 8 CFR §214.2(0)(3){v)(B). he also qualifies under A CFR
§214.2(0)}[3}{iv}(C)

tl. CON {

tis clear from the evidence thal Mr. Brunel is eiginte tor classification as
an Alen of Exirgordinary Ability in Arl Direction and Talent Coordination based

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011989
