4.2.12
WC: 191694

She then went on to create a new category of crime that warranted execution even in the absence
of a specific intent to kill:

We hold that the reckless disregard for human life implicit in knowingly engaging in
criminal activities known to carry a grave risk of death represents a highly culpable mental
state, a mental state that may be taken into account in making a capital sentencing
judgment when that conduct causes its natural, though also not inevitable, lethal result.

This new category—killings by a triggerman that reflected a “reckless disregard” for life by the
non triggerman—had not been the basis for the Arizona Courts’ decision. Nor had it been argued
by the Arizona Attorney General. Neither had we been given an opportunity to argue against it,
because the justices seemed to agree that if there was no intent to kill—which they now ruled
there was not—that would be “the end of the case.” The majority had simply concocted a new
tule out of whole cloth. They seemed determined to overrule Enmund, without appearing to be
doing so. It was “judicial activism” to the extreme.

But the court could not simply apply this new rule to the old facts of the Tison case, since the
Arizona courts had not found that the condemned brothers had shown a “reckless disregard for
human life.”® The majority therefore, “vacated” the death penalty against my clients and
remanded the case back to the Arizona courts “for determination” whether the Tison brothers met
this new criteria. Had they “affirmed” the judgment—the death sentence—the case would have
been over. But by “vacating” it, the justices gave us a new beginning.

We were still alive, as so were Ricky and Raymond. Their fates would now be in the hands of the
Arizona courts, which would have to make a finding that these boys had shown “reckless
indifference” or “disregard” for human life. It was a bad day for the campaign against capital
punishment, but a hopeful one for my clients Ricky and Raymond, who were no longer under
sentence of death—at least for the moment.

The state of Arizona continued to seek the death penalty and asked the trial court to find that the
Tison brothers possessed a “reckless indifference to human life.” Without even conducting an
evidentiary hearing, the trial court retmposed death sentences, concluding that the trial record
itself demonstrated reckless indifference. He refused to allow us to introduce any evidence that
might contradict this finding.

We immediately appealed to the Arizona Supreme Court, which had affirmed the original death
sentence. This time the court unanimously reversed the trial judge, vacated the death sentences
and remanded it back to the trial judge, ordering him to give us an opportunity to introduce
“additional evidence” relating to whether the boys were recklessly indifferent to human life. We
relished the opportunity, confident that a full exploration of the facts would lead to the
inescapable conclusion that Ricky and Raymond were anything but indifferent to the fate of the
Lyons’ family. They wanted them to live.

® The majority sloppily used two different formulations: “reckless disregard” and “reckless indifference.”

L¥7

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017264
