people.”

I'm glad that my mother feels good about life today, and I myself don't have the urge to
track those guys down and rend them limb from limb. (Much.) Yet I wonder if the men
who attacked her ever think about what they did. I wonder if the ex-boyfriend ever
understood how thoroughly he brutalized someone he claimed to love, or how male
privilege played a role in his actions. These days, I write a lot about masculinity, and I try
to understand men's perspective on gender issues. Writing about men and gender is tricky
territory, though. What if I end up shoring up the entitlement that led that those assholes
to attack my mom?

Mom told me that she Googled her rapist ex-boyfriend. He has three daughters. She
wonders whether he ever thinks about it, too.

Naturally, I also think a lot about feminism, and how we can make it both effective and
welcoming. What does it mean when people call it a movement that eats its young?
What does it mean that feminism has become so tied up in identity? What does it mean
when a rape survivor who had a career and raised a feminist daughter won't call herself a
feminist? What does it mean that taking on the feminist label means taking on a host of
other associations -- associations that even women like my mother are unwilling to
accept?

KK ok
This can be found on the Internet at:

http://clarissethorn.com/blog/2012/05/25/my-moms-rape-story-and-a-confused-
relationship-with-feminism/

Section 3 Study Guide

Having established the building blocks of Section 1, and the extra perspectives of Section
2, this section was intended to pull together some seriously multi-layered syntheses.

TK OK ok

1. Is it hard to relate BDSM theory and practice to feminism or anti-rape activism? If so,
then how is it hard? If not, then why do some people believe that there are difficulties?

KOK ok

2. Which issues of sexuality do you feel clear about, and which do you feel foggy or
uncertain about? How and why?

2a. Do you have a sense of what makes you feel strong and centered in your sexuality and
relationships? If so, how do you go about establishing those factors in your life?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018683
