Chapter 11
Stages of Cognitive Development

Co-authored with Stephan Vladimir Bugaj

11.1 Introduction

Creating AGI, we have said, is not only about having the right structural and dynamical
possibilities implemented in the initial version of one’s system — but also about the environment
and embodiment that one’s system is associated with, and the match between the system’s
internals and these externals. Another key aspect is the long-term time-course of the system’s
evolution over time, both in its internals and its external interaction — i.e., what is known as
development.

Development is a critical topic in our approach to AGI because we believe that much of
what constitutes human-level, human-like intelligence emerges in an intelligent system due to
its engagement with its environment and its environment-coupled self-organization. So, it’s not
to be expected that the initial version of an AGI system is going to display impressive feats
of intelligence, even if the engineering is totally done right. A good analogy is the apparent
unintelligence of a human baby. Yes, scientists have discovered that human babies are capable
of interesting and significant intelligence — but one has to hunt to find it ... at first observation,
babies are rather idiotic and simple-minded creatures: much less intelligent-appearing than
lizards or fish, maybe even less than cockroaches...

If the goal of an AGI project is to create an AGI system that can progressively develop
advanced intelligence through learning in an environment richly populated with other agents
and various inanimate stimuli and interactive entities — then an understanding of the nature of
cognitive development becomes extremely important to that project.

Unfortunately, contemporary cognitive science contains essentially no theory of “abstract
developmental psychology” which can conveniently be applied to understand developing Als.
There is of course an extensive science of human developmental psychology, and so it is a
natural research program to take the chief ideas from the former and inasmuch as possible port
them to the AGI domain. This is not an entirely simple matter both because of the differences
between humans and Als and because of the unsettled nature of contemporary developmental
psychology theory. But it’s a job that must (and will) be done, and the ideas in this chapter
may contribute toward this effort.

We will begin here with Piaget’s well-known theory of human cognitive development, present-
ing it in a general systems theory context, then introducing some modifications and extensions
and discussing some other relevant work.

187

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013103
