Economic Research: How Increasing Income Inequality Is Dampening U.S. Economic Growth, And Possible Ways
To Change The Tide

Increasing income inequality also poses a risk to certain states' finances, given the correlation between income
inequality and revenue volatility in the slow growth after the Great Recession. According to Gabriel Petek, credit
analyst at Standard & Poor's, the volatility of tax revenue seems to be increasing despite the states' less-progressive tax

structures--suggesting that income inequality as a macroeconomic issue can translate to credit implications for states.

Undereducated Workers: Both Today's And Tomorrow's

Technological achievement has saved us time and reconfigured our daily routines, allowing us to focus on our own
skills and boosting productivity and growth. These advances are naturally disruptive in the beginning as workers
adjust; that disruption becomes alarming when people don't have the means to adapt, making a lasting impact on

career development.

Although the US. has been fairly quick to adapt in the past, today's workers have been left behind by technological
change. Indeed, while recent advances now require many workers to have graduated from college, the supply of
college-educated workers hasn't kept up with demand--and even the fraction of high school graduates has stopped

climbing.

This education gap is a main reason for the growing income divide, and it affects both wages and net worth. From a
wage perspective, occupations that typically require postsecondary education generally paid much higher median
wages ($57,770 in 2012)--more than double those occupations that typically require a high school diploma or less
($27,670 in 2012). Further, those with a bachelor's degree had a median net worth value nearly twice that of people
with a high-school diploma in 1998--climbing to almost 3.5 times greater by 2010 (see chart 3) (23). This difference is

even greater higher up the educational ladder.

WWW.STANDARDANDPOORS.COM/RATINGSDIRECT AUGUST 5, 2014 9

1351366 | 302136118

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025771
