4.2.12
WC: 191694

Among the people I have advised are President Bill Clinton, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanayu
and President Moshe Katsav of Israel, Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau, Senator Alan
Cranston, the Deputy Secretary General of the United Nations, Marlon Brando, Frank Sinatra,
Woody Harrelson, Michael Jackson, John Lennon, Natalie Portman, Broadway producer David
Merrick, New England Patriot Head Coach Bill Belichick, the actress Isabella Rossellini, the
international arms dealer Adnan Khashoggi, singers Carly Simon and David Crosby, basketball
player Hakeem Olajuwon, baseball star Kevin Youkilis, football quarterback Tom Brady,
saxophonist Stan Goetz, artist Peter Max, cellist Yo Yo Ma, comedian Steven Wright, actor
Robert Downey, Jr., several billionaires such as Sheldon Adelson and Mark Rich, authors such as
Saul Bellow, David Mamet and Elie Wiesel, and judges, senators, congressmen, governors and
other public officials.

In addition I have had some of the most interesting cases involving people who are not well
known but the cases raised intriguing and fascinating issues. Among these issues are whether a
man can be prosecuted for attempted murder for shooting a dead body that he thought was alive,
whether a husband can be prosecuted on charges of slavery for not doing anything about his
wife’s alleged abuse of domestic employees, whether a husband can be forced to adopt a child and
whether a law firm can discriminate in its partnership decision.

I have engaged in public debates and controversies with some of the most contentious and
influential figures of the age including William F. Buckley, Noam Chomsky, Rabbi Meyer Kahana,
Rabbi Adan Steinzaltz, Justice Antonin Scalia, Ken Starr, Elie Wiesel, Vaclav Havel, Golda Meir,
Red Auerbach, William Kunstler, Roy Cohn, Norman Mailer, Patrick Buchanan, Norman
Podhoretz, Bill O’Reilley, Skip Gates, Alan Keyes, Dennis Prager, Jeremy Ben Ami, Mike
Hukabee, Shawn Mann, William Bulger, James Zogby, Jimmy Carter, Richard Goldstone,
Norman Finkelstein and many others.

I was part of an American team of debaters selected to confront Soviet debaters on a nationally
televised debate, during the height of Soviet oppression of Refusenicks, for which William
Buckley suggested that the US team be given medals of freedom. I was a regular “advocate” on
the nationally-televised Peabody award winning show “The Advocates” on PBS for several years.
I have been interviewed by nearly every television and radio talk and news show and have written
for most major newspapers, magazines and blogs. This is my 30 book.

In recent years, I have devoted considerable energy to the defense of Israel, while remaining
critical of some of its policies. The Forward has called me, “America’s most public Jewish
defender,” and “Israel’s single most visible defender — the Jewish state’s lead attorney in the court
of public opinion.” In 2010, The Prime Minister of Israel asked me to become Israel’s
Ambassador to the United Nations—an offer I respectfully declined because I am an American,
not an Israeli citizen. I have agreed instead to be available to serve as an American lawyer for
Israel before international tribunals.

I have also taught thousands of students, many of whom have become world and national leaders.

I have learned from each of these experiences, and they too have helped to shape my evolving
world views. I have seen the law change, in some respects quite dramatically, in the half century I

11

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017098
