HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012674 
TAB 39 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012675 
Jay Lefkowitz/New 
York/Kirkland-Ellis 
Sent by: Kristin Andersen/New 
York/Kirkland-Ellis 
12/12/2007 04:19 PM 
To Ami Sheth/New York/Kirkland-Ellis@K&E 
CC Eugene Kornel/New York/Kirkland-Ellis@K&E 
bcc 
Subject Fw: Epstein 
---- Forwarded by Kristin Andersen/New York/Kirkland-Ellis on 12/12/2007 04:19 PM 
Jay Lefkowitz/New 
York/Kirkland-Ellis To Sloman, Jeff (USAFLS) 
11/28/2007 04:29 PM cc Acosta, Alex (USAFLS) 
Subject Re: EpsteinCi 
Dear Jeff: 
I received your email yesterday and was a little surprised at the tone of your letter, given 
the fact that we spoke last week and had what I thought was a productive meeting. I was 
especially surprised given that your letter arrived on only the second day back to work after the 
Thanksgiving Holiday, and yet your demands regarding timing suggest that I have been sitting on 
my hands for days. 
You should know that the first time I learned about Judge Davis's selection of Podhurst 
and Josephsberg, and indeed the first time I ever heard their names, was in our meeting with you 
on Wednesday of last week. Nevertheless, I have now been able to confer with my client, and we 
have determined that the selection of Podhurst and Josephsberg are acceptable to us, reserving, of 
course, our previously stated objections to the manner in which you have interpreted the section 
2255 portions of the Agreement. 
We do, however, strongly and emphatically object to your sending a letter to the alleged 
victims. Without a fair opportunity to review and the ability to make objections to this letter, it is 
completely unacceptable that you would send it without our consideration. Additionally, given 
that the US Attorney's office has made clear it cannot vouch for the claims of the victims, it 
would be incendiary and inappropriate for your Office to send such a letter. Indeed, because it is 
a certainty that any such letter would immediately be leaked to the press, your actions will only 
have the effect of injuring Mr. Epstein and promoting spurious civil litigation directed at him. 
We believe it is entirely unprecedented, and in any event, inappropriate for the Government to be 
the instigator of such lawsuits. 
Finally, we disagree with your view that you are required to notify the alleged victims 
pursuant to the Justice for All Act of 2004. First, 18 USC section 2255, the relevant statute 
under the Non-Prosecution Agreement for the settlement of civil remedies, does not have any 
connection to the Justice for All Act. Section 2255 was enacted as part of a different statute. 
Second, the Justice for All Act refers to restitution, and section 2255 is not a restitution statute. 
It is a civil remedy. As you know, we had offered to provide a restitution fund for the alleged 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012676 
Jay, 
J.L 10 Li %el V IA 1V111.V,..1..7. .1 10 .7 VIA 13.11%./ VV VVVS 11E411 LJ.L.LV.LVUL FAA./ V 111V Li 1,...,11-11.1.11.1,J11 1111111 101 1.11V 1411051.0 
victims in this matter; however that option was rejected by your Office. Had that option been 
chosen, we would not object to your notifying the alleged victims at this point. At this juncture, 
however, we do not accept your contention that there is a requirement that the government notify 
the alleged victims of a potential civil remedy in this case. 
Accordingly, for all the reasons we have stated above, we respectfully -- and firmly --
object to your sending any letter whatsoever to the alleged victims in this matter. Furthermore, if 
a letter is to be sent to these individuals, we believe we should have a right to review and make 
objections to that submission prior to it being sent to any alleged victims. We also request that if 
your Office believes that it must send a letter to go to the alleged victims, who still have not been 
identified to us, it should happen only after Mr. Epstein has entered his plea. This letter should 
then come from the attorney representative, and not from the Government, to avoid any bias. 
As you know, Judge Starr has requested a meeting with Assistant Attorney General Fisher 
to address what we believe is the unprecedented nature of the section 2255 component of the 
Agreement. We are hopeful that this meeting will take place as early as next week. Accordingly, 
we respectfully request that we postpone our discussion of sending a letter to the alleged victims 
until after that meeting. We strongly believe that rushing to send any letter out this week is not 
the wisest manner in which to proceed. Given that Mr. Epstein will not even enter his plea for 
another few weeks, time is clearly not of the essence regarding any notification to the identified 
individuals. 
Thanks very much, 
Jay 
Sloman, Jeff (USAFLS) 
1Sloman, Jeff (USAFLS) 
11/27/2007 01:55 PM 
To Jay Lefkowitz 
CC Acosta, Alex (USAFLS) 
Subject Epstein 
Please accept my apologies for not getting back to you sooner but I was a little under the weather 
yesterday. I hope that you enjoyed your Thanksgiving. 
Regarding the issue of due diligence concerning Judge Davis' selection, I'd like to make a few 
observations. First, Guy Lewis has known for some time that Judge Davis was making 
reasonable efforts to secure Aaron Podhurst and Bob Josephsberg for this assignment. In fact, 
when I told you of Judge Davis's selection during our meeting last Wednesday, November 2e, 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012677 
you and Professor Dershowitz seemed very comfortable, and certainly not surprised, with the 
selection. Podhurst and Josephsberg are no strangers to nearly the entire Epstein defense team 
including Guy Lewis, Lili Ann Sanchez, Roy Black, and, apparently, Professor Dershowitz who 
said he knew Mr. Josephsberg from law school. Second, Podhurst and Josephsberg have 
long-standing stellar reputations for their legal acumen and ethics. It's hard for me to imagine 
how much more vetting needs to be done. 
The United States has a statutory obligation (Justice for All Act of 2004) to notify the victims of 
the anticipated upcoming events and their rights associated with the agreement entered into by 
the United States and Mr. Epstein in a timely fashion. Tomorrow will make one full week since 
you were formally notified of the selection. I must insist that the vetting process come to an end. 
Therefore, unless you provide me with a good faith objection to Judge Davis's selection by COB 
tomorrow, November 28, 2007, I will authorize the notification of the victims. Should you give 
me the go-ahead on Podhurst and Josephsberg selection by COB tomorrow, I will simultaneously 
send you a draft of the letter. I intend to notify the victims by letter after COB Thursday, 
November 29th. Thanks, 
Jeff 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012678 
TAB 40 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012679 
_ 
**TAX MATTERS- IRS Circular 230 Disclosure: To ensure compliance 
with requirements imposed by the IRS, we inform you that any tax 
advice contained in this communication (including attachments) was 
not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, for the 
purpose of (i) avoiding penalties under the Internal Revenue Code 
or (ii) promoting, marketing or recommending to another party any 
transaction or matter addressed herein. If you would like such advice, 
please contact us.*** 
***Attention: The information contained in this E-mail message 
is attorney privileged and confidential information intended only 
for the use of the individual(s) named above. If the reader of this 
message is not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any 
dissemination, distribution or copy of this communication is strictly 
prohibited. If you have received this communication in error, please 
contact the sender by reply E-mail and destroy all copies of the original 
message. Thank you. 
-----Message from A. on Fri, ----- 
To: Lilly 
Subject: Menchel 
Dear Lilly: 
Thank you for your letter of August 2nd regarding your proposal on how to resolve the Epstein 
matter. 
As we explained at our meeting on July 31, 2007, the Office believes that the federal interest 
will not be vindicated in the absence of a two-year term of state imprisonment for Mr. Epstein. 
That offer was not meant as a starting point for negotiations, it is the minimum term of 
imprisonment that will obviate the need for federal prosecution. The Office has never agreed 
that a state prison sentence is not appropriate for Mr. Epstein. Rather we simply stated that if Mr. 
Epstein preferred to serve his sentence in a federal penetentiary, we would be willing to explore a 
federal conviction that may allow that in lieu of any state resolution. Further, as I made clear in 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012680 
our follow up telephone conversation after the meeting, a plea to two federal misdemeanors was 
never extended or meant as an offer. 
We also would reiterate that the agreement to Section 2255 liability applies to all of the minor 
girls identified during the federal investigation, not just the 12 that form the basis of an initial 
planned charging instrument. 
As you know, the ability to engage in flexible plea negotiations is dramatically changed upon the 
return of an indictment. Once an indictment is returned, the Office does not intend to file a 
Superseding Information containing a lesser charge or to dismiss the case in favor of state 
prosecution. 
Please let us know your client's decision by no later than August 17. I have conferred with U.S. 
Attorney Acosta who has asked me to communicate that the two-year term of incarceration is a 
non-negotiable minimum to vindicate a federal interest, and, at this time, he is not inclined to 
meet with counsel for Mr. Epstein. 
Sincerely, 
R. Alexander Acosta 
United States Attorney 
By: 
Matthew Menchel 
Chief, Criminal Division 
cc: Roy Black 
Gerald Lefcourt 
R. Alexander Acosta 
Jeffrey Sloman 
Andrew Lourie 
A. Marie Villafaila 
Margot Moss, Esq. 
Fowler White Burnett, PA 
Espirito Santo Plaza 
1395 Brickell Avenue, 14th Floor 
Miami, FL 33131 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012681 
TAB 41 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012682 
Jay, 
10/31/2007 04:33 PM 
To Jay Lefkowitz 
cc 
bcc 
Subject Epstein 
Your understanding from Jack Goldberger conforms to my understanding that Mr. Epstein's plea 
and sentence will take place on the same day. I understand that the plea and sentence will occur 
on or before the January 4th date. 
Jeff 
HOUSE OVERSIGHT 012683 
