4.2.12
WC: 191694

Is this an irony, or is there a causal connection between our constitutional separation of church
and state and the high level of religiosity among our people? I believe the latter is the case.

The original theory behind the metaphor of “the wall of separation” was to protect the holiness of
the church from the corrupting influences of the secular state. Roger Williams, who is credited
with coining the metaphor, was a 17 Century Baptist minister in Providence, Rhode Island. He
insisted that a “hedge or wall of separation between the garden of the church and the wilderness
of the world” was necessary to protect religion, as well as to assure freedom of conscience. And
this wall has worked wonderfully to do both.”

Churches are thriving in America, unlike in most European countries that have long traditions of
established churches. When the state supports churches, resentment against government, which is
inevitable, spills over to religion. Consider Israel, whose citizens are far more secular on average
than Americans. Many Israeli Jews resent religion because the Rabbis have too much influence
over marriage, divorce and other aspects of daily life. This turns people against religion. Israel
does not have an established religion, despite its being a “Jewish state.” Muslim and Christian
Israelis, who comprise nearly a quarter of the population, have equal status and equal rights, or at
least as a matter of law, but Conservative and Reform Jews do not. Within the Jewish religion,
Orthodoxy is the established branch. This has caused enormous resentment—against both the
state and the synagogue—by reform, conservative and secular Jews and have driven many of them
away from religion. In the U.S., on the other hand, resentment against the government
(Congress’ approval rating is always quite low) does not translate into resentment against the
churches. To the contrary, cynicism about politics, may well drive some people toward greater
commitment to their churches.

I believe, therefore, that perhaps the single most important guarantee in our Constitution is one
that is not explicitly enumerated: the separation of church and state. Although those words do
not appear in either the body of the Constitution or in the First Amendment, there can be no
doubt that the founding fathers constructed a system of checks and balances that required such
separation. Without it, the church (representing organized religion) could not serve as an
effective check on the secular excesses of the state; nor could the state serve as an effective check
on the excessive involvement of the church in the business of governance and on the rights of
religious and non-religious dissenters. The marvel of our unique system of checks and balances, is
that is does not simply involve each branch of government—executive, legislative and
judicial—checking on the others; it also encourages—through the freedoms guaranteed by the
First Amendment—other institutions to serve as checks on the government. In addition to the
churches (broadly defined to include all religious institutions), these include the media, the
academy, the business community, and especially the “people” who have the right to vote, to
assemble and to petition for a redress of grievances.

Just before the 50 Anniversary of the Declaration of Independence—the day on which two of its
primary authors, Jefferson and Adams, both died—Jefferson wrote the following about the
purpose of Declaration:

*! The irony is that the wall was essentially a contribution made by Baptists to America, is now being attacked by
many Baptists.

306

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017393
