B6 COVER STORY

On a mission to
explain ‘real’ Ch

sED EDITION

Above: “How
China’s Leaders
Think”

Right: “The Man
Who Changed
China: The Life
and Legacy of
Jiang Zemin”

I don’t try to make any-
body happy, but I just want
to tell the truth. I can be
wrong, and maybe my
truth is not balanced.

Lu Feiran

hina expert and American public intellec-

tual, Robert Lawrence Kuhn is best known in

China for two books about Chinese leaders

and their views, including a biography of
former President Jiang Zemin in 2005 and one about
other leaders and their thinking in 2009.

Kuhn, also an investment banker, business con-
sultant, brain scientist and philosopher, has been
granted unprecedented access to Chinese leaders,
though he does not speak Chinese.

His biography “The Man Who Changed China:

The Life and Legacy of Jiang Zemin” published in
both Chinese and English, was a best-seller in China
where readers are not accustomed to humanized
biographies of leaders.

It was probably the first biography written by a
foreigner about a living Chinese leader that was
published in China.

Kuhn has also produced documentaries on China,
written extensively for Chinese media and is often
quoted by western media. He is a contributor and
consultant to CCTV, some Chinese newspapers and
the Xinhua News Agency.

Kuhn sees his mission as telling the world about
the real China.

He was in Shanghai late last month for an In-
ternational Channel Shanghai (ICS) program he
co-produced and wrote about China’s challenges, in
conjunction with the 18th National Congress of the
Communist Party of China. He held a press confer-
ence and also spoke with Shanghai Daily.

Chinese media sometimes accuse some Westerners
and Western media of China bashing, saying they
misunderstand or are even malevolent.

But 68-year-old Kuhn, a New Yorker, is believed
to have a more neutral view for China. He received
a bachelor’s degree in human biology from Johns
Hopkins University, a master’s of science in man-
agement from the MIT Sloan School of Management,
and a PhD in anatomy and brain research from
UCLA.

His books were published by the Shanghai Trans-
lation Publishing House and Shanghai Century
Publishing Group.

Kuhn said he “never tried to please the Chinese
government, though Western media thought I did.”

“I like feedback, including negative feedback,
because I know that people are engaged,” he told
Shanghai Daily.

“I don’t try to make anybody happy, but I just want
to tell the truth. I can be wrong, and maybe my truth
is not balanced.”

Sunday 25 November 2012 Shanghai Daily

Kuhn’s experience with China started in 1989,
when he was invited by former State Councilor Song
Jian, director of the State Science and Technology
Commission.

The two became friends and Kuhn began traveling
between the US and China, getting to know govern-
ment officials and ordinary people.

Kuhn said he felt frustrated because his experience
in China differed from the description in much of
the Western media. “Then they only focused on the
negative side and ignored the rest,” he said.

That disparity inspired him to write Jiang’s biog-
raphy, he said. Jiang himself said that Kuhn didn’t
“beautify” him and got his wedding date wrong.

Kuhn spent four years writing “The Man Who
Changed China.” Though he had only met Jiang three
times and did not interview him for the book, he
talked to many people close to Jiang, including rela-
tives, friends and colleagues, gathering stories and
perceptions. He became close to many of them.

“T thought I had been rather familiar with China
before I started working on the book,” said Kuhn.
“But after I started collecting the information, I
found that my knowledge was very limited.”

Humanized leader

Kuhn said he was determined to depict a real, ani-
mated Jiang, different from the seemingly impassive
figure appearing on state occasions, on Chinese TV
and in newspapers.

“For a very long time, Chinese leaders were either
described as God or the Devil, but never in-between,”
he said. “So I expected to display a Chinese leader
who is a human being.”

Soon after publication, it became a best-seller in
China. After Kuhn held a book-signing in Guang-
zhou, Guangdong Province, more than 300 books
were sold in an hour. In Shanghai, more than a
million copies were sold in 2005, the highest in the
social science category.

Chinese readers called the book refreshing be-
cause it told daily life stories and described Jiang’s
youth.

One Internet user called “Burn the scarecrow” said
before reading the biography, he thought Jiang was
“a quiet man standing high above the masses.”

“But after reading the book, my first feeling was
that he was once young like us and he is also an
ordinary man.”

The English version, however, received some criti-
cism, primarily that Kuhn was “fawning” over Jiang
and the government. Kuhn denied that.

“In fact, the book had a disclaimer, saying all

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023703
