Creativity 309

ideas through patents, copyright, and trade secret is big business and
combines to form the practice of ‘intellectual property. Societies with
the best protection of intellectual property are often the most successful.
The USA is the unassailed leader, with Asian countries rapidly catching
up. Poor old Europeans have struggled with an almost unworkable
patent system for nearly 30 years; a genuine Europe-wide patent only
came into effect in 2013.

Creativity in the economy is now extremely important, and nothing
emphasizes the point more than the job market. During the 60s finding a
job was easy. There was an almost unlimited range of mechanical jobs on
offer. In the post-industrial age, almost all the mechanical jobs have gone.
Today we need to be experts in a field, able to solve problems creatively.
You can't expect to walk into a job and be profitably productive on the
first day. Finding a job is harder and the cost of employing someone is
greater.

Why did we Evolve Creativity?
Roger Penrose wonders why mathematical creativity evolved in humans
since it only became useful in ancient Greece a few thousand years ago.
He believes it must have been useful for something before this. But what?
David Deutsch thinks creativity developed to allow one human to
understand the thoughts of a fellow human being. We can't precisely
communicate the ‘programs’ we run in our heads. We are unable to
download a detailed thought and put it on a memory stick. He thinks
our creative capacity developed to help us pass skills from one to another.
The ability to paint and sculpt is an accidental by-product of this adaption.
It's my view we evolved creativity to deal with new situations
and puzzles in our daily lives. We use creative thought processes and
ingenuity to come up with novel solutions for when we can't rely on
programming or a store of rules. Otherwise, the very first unforeseen
situation could kill us!

Computer Creativity

Humans find creativity difficult. It requires peace and quiet, detailed
study and input of caffeine. How does a computer fare? I have argued
that computers cannot be creative above the logic limit, so this does not
preclude them from creating within the narrow confines of a particular
solution space. But a human still needs to set the rules for this space. The
level of creativity we should see from computers is convincing within

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015999
