ALLEN GUTHRIE MCHUGH & THOMAS, PLLC

Mr. John Roth
June 19, 2008
Page 5

A full and fair review of the facts here is critical to this analysis. Yet, it is clear that CEOS
did not conduct such a review. In his recent letter to Jay Lefkowitz, First Assistant United States
Attorney (“FAUSA”) Jeffrey Sloman confirmed our understanding that the USAO was to have
“facilitated” an “independent de novo review of the investigation” by the Department. (May 19,
2008 Sloman letter at p. 5). Yet, the CEOS review was not complete, and by its own terms not de
novo.

As CEOS itself noted, “our review of this case is limited both factually and legally. We have
not looked at the entire universe of facts in this case. It is not the role of the Criminal Division to
conduct a complete factual inquiry from scratch.” (CEOS letter at p. 1). Indeed, entire subject areas
relevant to the inquiry were not considered at all by CEOS. In essence, CEOS was only in a position
to make the most cursory possible review, an “abuse of discretion” review, without considering the
facts at the necessary level of detail, and without taking into account the many and varied issues of
misconduct we have raised in this case. As the CEOS letter indicates, “we did not review the facts,
circumstances, or terms included in the plea offer nor any allegations that individuals involved in the
investigation engaged in misconduct.” (CEOS letter at p. 2). All of this begs the question — if it is
not CEOS’ role to “conduct a complete factual inquiry,” and CEOS did not consider any of the
allegations of misconduct here, which at the very least have created a strong appearance of
impropriety, and, at worst evidence an intent and effort to unfairly prejudice Mr. Epstein to the
financial benefit of the friends and colleagues of the prosecution team in the USAO, then where and
when can justice ever hope to be served in this case? This is a prosecution burden that cannot, and
should not, be brushed aside.

We contend the limited nature of the CEOS review deeply affected its conclusions. For
example, CEOS most likely did not review original documents, such as transcripts, and instead relied
on the summaries of federal prosecutors and FBI agents, against whom we have raised serious
concerns regarding misconduct. If the summary memos from the USAO are as flawed as other
USAO communications have been, and which we have been able to show are misleading and
inaccurate, the CEOS abuse of discretion review is likely flawed as well. Moreover, although the
USAO expected, and personally promised to us, an independent review, FAUSA Sloman’s letter also
makes clear that our pivotal legal challenge to the use of 18 U.S.C. § 2422(b) had already “been
previously raised and thoroughly considered and rejected by .. . CEOS prior to” the recent CEOS
review. (May 19, 2008 Sloman letter at p. 5). The fact that CEOS had to evaluate its own decision
with respect to some of the allegations against Mr. Epstein prevents its subsequent review and
opinion from being truly independent.

Following this most recent CEOS review “limited both factually and legally,” and with no
citation to any case law relative to the statutes in question, CEOS concludes merely, “federal
prosecution in this case would not be improper or inappropriate (CEOS letter at p. 5);” in essence,
that the United States Attorney could bring this case in the exercise of his federal discretion should
he so choose (“we conclude that U.S. Attorney Acosta could properly use his discretion to authorize |
prosecution in this case.”). (CEOS letter at p. 2). However, CEOS drew the conclusion that the |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012187
