positive sentiment are the foundation for continued gains in the equity markets and an investor
rotation from overexposure to long-dated fixed income into under owned equities.

This rotation will need a few periods of confirmation, given the still uncertain broader global macro
outlook, but we expect price-to-earnings multiples to remain elevated, despite higher rates,
throughout the year. S&P 500 earnings have a wide range of forecasts due to the potential for
sizable tax cuts in 2017. Based on this, the S&P 500 could add extra earnings on top of normalized
growth, which is expected to be around 9%. At present, a reasonable range, albeit a wide one, is
considered to be between $129 and $138 with the potential for further upside. In this scenario,
where we get pro-growth policies filtering into a higher earnings number, an S&P 500 bull case
level of 2700 at the high end is possible.

Improving profits and growth should take equities higher

For now, a base case utilizing the five factor framework from BofA Merrill Lynch Global
Research, which combines sentiment, valuation and technical, equates to 2300 for the S&P 500 at
year end. The two components that include long-term valuation and 12-month price momentum are
indicating that S&P 500 levels between the base and bull case are increasing in probability. Of
course, there are a number of scenarios that could unfold that would indicate a wide range of
outcomes depending on the multiple or earnings number that ultimately develops. In the end, it all
comes down to the path of corporate profits and the visibility on growth, both of which are
improving.

Highlights

We have moved from a “get paid to wait” core

portfolio theme to a more cyclical- and value-
oriented theme in multi-asset portfolios

¢ Equities remain attractive versus fixed income
on a relative basis.

¢ Within equities, we favor U.S. large caps, U.S.
small caps and emerging markets.

* Within equities, we favor value over growth and
more cyclical assets versus defensives.

¢ Within fixed income, we prefer credit to Treasuries.
We would also consider an allocation to Treasury
inflation protected securities (TIPS) where appropriate.

Portfolio repositioning is likely to continue well into 2017, as developments unfold and the pro-
cyclical environment gathers momentum. With growth already heading higher from Q3 2016
onward and earnings turning positive, investors have begun increasing cyclicality and exposure to
value in portfolios at the expense of more defensive sectors and higher-dividend areas within
equities. In addition, we expect a larger shift in emphasis toward small capitalization, which has
already started, and more domestic-oriented equities due to a slightly stronger dollar, more pro-
growth policies and the desire for a hedge against potential retaliatory trade policies from main

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014529
