All nations have ideological divisions, but the Palestinians are
divided over the fundamental question of the Palestinian nation's
identity. Fatah sees itself as part of a secular Arab world that is on the
defensive. Hamas envisions the Palestinian nation as an Islamic state
forming in the context of a region-wide Islamist rising. Neither is in a
position to speak authoritatively for the Palestinian people, and the
things that divide them cut to the heart of the nation. As important,
each has a different view of its future relations with Israel. Fatah has
accepted, in practice, the idea of Israel's permanence as a state and
the need of the Palestinians to accommodate themselves to the reality.
Hamas has rejected it.

The U.N. decision raises the stakes in this debate within the
Palestinian nation that could lead to intense conflict. As vicious as
the battle between Hamas and Fatah has been, an uneasy truce has
existed over recent years. Now, there could emerge an internationally
legitimized state, and control of that state will matter more than ever
before. Whoever controls the state defines what the Palestinians are,
and it becomes increasingly difficult to suspend the argument for a
temporary truce. Rather than settling anything, or putting Israel on
the defensive, the vote will compel a Palestinian crisis.

Fatah has an advantage in any vote on Palestinian statehood: It enjoys
far more international support than Hamas does. Europeans and
Americans see it as friendly to their interests and less hostile to Israel.
The Saudis and others may distrust Fatah from past conflicts, but in
the end they fear radical Islamists and Iran and so require American
support at a time when the Americans have tired of playing in what
some Americans call the sandbox. However reluctantly, while
aiding Hamas, the Saudis are more comfortable with Fatah. And of
course, the embattled Arabist regimes, whatever tactical shifts there
may have been, spring from the same soil as Fatah. While Fatah is the
preferred Palestinian partner for many, Hamas can also use that

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031919
