founded the national accounts in the 1920s and reorganized them along Keynesian
lines when the General Theory was published, reconstructed them back to 1870 for
the U.S. economy. Piketty and Zucman incorporate this research and others. They
have acted as editors only. As a layman, I would hardly be qualified to find and
interpret original sources. Even most economists might lack that specialty. I simply
trust Picketty and Zucman. They will have compounded misreadings and editors’
bias in those sources by adding their own, and I will have added mine. They and I
have plenty. Editing is bias by definition. But we can’t do without it. We manage as

best we can.

To make sure, I also test Mill’s idea on stock market data from the same nations and
periods. Here my source was the Global Financial Data website marketed by
Bloomberg. Market cap corresponds to capital, dividend yield to consumption and
total return to output. Charts and tables show free growth as essentially all of

growth in stock markets too.

Now try a first look at the charts and tables. The lollipop-shaped Greek letter @
(phi) is something | call the free growth index. It reads 1 in years when growth is
explained as Mill described, 0 in years when belt-tightening was the explanation,
and something in between when there was both. The free growth index will be
explained in chapters 4 and 5. The charts can be messy, and the data jumps around.
There are spikes, both up and down, which tend to disappear in the charts which
screen out small absolute values of the denominator (capital acceleration). But the
free growth index clearly jumps around 1, not zero, both before or after the
screening. It is as often above 1 as below. That means that growth is as likely to
coincide with belt-loosening as belt-tightening. My free website

FreeGrowth&OtherSurprises.org shows how everything was calculated.

Economists will not be as surprised as they might have been a century ago. Growth

theory since Solow’s revolutionary papers in 1956 and 1957 has marginalized

Chapter 2: Fast Forward 1/06/16 8

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010948
