ALLEN GUTHRIE MCHUGH & THOMAS, PLLC

Mr, John Roth
June 19, 2008
Page 3

them you’re 18 because if you’re not, he won’t let you in his house.” ME. 2: 3-39.
Second, Mr. Epstein himself did not schedule such appointments. Third, Mr. Epstein would not
know who would be providing a massage at any particular time. Fourth, and importantly, Mr.
Epstein’s assistants were not directed to contact underage women, and were not aware of the true
ages of the women they contacted. In fact, more often than not, the masseuses themselves, or the
individuals who introduced the masseuses, made the initial contact. As a result, Mr. Epstein and his
assistants were routinely unaware of the identities of many of these young women before they
arrived.

The allegations further include the assertion that Mr. Epstein engaged in unlawful sexual
conduct with certain underage women who arrived at his house to provide a massage. At times,
during these massages, Mr. Epstein masturbated, engaged in some sexual touching, and a small
number of alleged acts of penetration. However, most of the women who performed massages on
Mr. Epstein were over the age of 18. Many of the young women have sworn under oath that they, in
fact, told Mr. Epstein that they were 18 or older, and that they did so because they knew that if they
were not 18 years old, they would not be allowed into Mr. Epstein’s home. In fact, Mr. Epstein has
passed a polygraph examination to this effect relative to the government’s primary, and youngest,
alleged victim, Indeed, many of the women also worked at local massage parlors,
which presumably had a requirement that the masseuse have reached the age of majority. To the
extent there are allegations that Mr. Epstein should have been alerted to certain underage women
based on conversations he allegedly had with them, those conversations would have taken place in
person and at his home, thereby precluding any prior scheduling with knowledge of their true ages.
As explained below, any factual allegations of repeat massages with such persons would lack
necessary elements required for a federal nexus to such conduct.

All of the alleged activity occurred in Mr. Epstein’s home in Palm Beach, Florida. Many of
the massages allegedly involved conduct which, even if engaged in, is not proscribed by federal law,
either because the masseuses were of age, or because conduct with underage masseuses only
involved topless massages, massages in undergarments or naked massages. To the extent prohibited
sexual activity occurred, any inducement, enticement, and/or persuasion used would have taken
place during a face-to-face encounter—thus eliminating the possibility for the commission of a
federal crime, which requires the existence of a communication through a facility of interstate
commerce in which the defendant persuades or entices the minor to engage in illegal sexual activity.
Furthermore, any prohibited sexual activity that did occur based on the facts on the record is best left
to the state to address because the facts of this case do not fall comfortably within the federal
domain.

This is a case about purely local activity, involving local actors, and affecting local
interests and thus, should be handled by local authorities. Nonetheless, the USAO has indicated
its intent to prosecute Mr. Epstein for purported violations of 18 U.S.C. §§ 2422, 2423, and
1591. However, as set forth in detail in prior submissions, the facts of this case fall squarely
outside the heartland of those statutes — in fact, in law, and in congressional intent. As their plain

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012185
