performance of the UAE in light of the financial crisis? What is the UAE government’s
strategy to raise the national economy, and emerge from the financial crisis stronger than
before? How do you respond to the unfair and hateful rumors that Dubai has turned into
a ghost city?

The performance of our economy in the first quarter of this year proves that we are on the way out of the crisis,
and that we are on the right track. Our economy will resume its health faster than other economies, but the
speed of that=2 Oresumption is not governed only by the strength of our economy and its abundant resources.
The speed will also be influenced by developments in the international economy — including the measures of
revival in the grouping of industrialized states known as the G-20, whose role in international trade movement
is about 90 percent of the total international trade, and whose GDP is about 60 percent of the entire world GDP.
The speed of general recovery will also be influenced by the capability of international measures connected
with monitoring markets, and the role, functions and work mechanisms of international financial institutions,
especially the International Monetary Fund. I am optimistic that good implementation of the decisions of G-20
and the International Monetary Fund will speed up the recovery of the global economy.

By Ali Mutalq Al-Quhais Al-Shammari - AlReyadh Newspaper

Sometime ago, several Western papers published unfair reports about the UAE, claiming
human right violations of foreign labor in the UAE, and the lack of free elections in the
UAE, etc. What do you think of these allegations? What do you think is the reason behind
spreading such malicious reports?

They may write whatever they like, and play the tunes that please them. We are not annoyed by criticism, nor
do we fear campaigns. They have their models, experience, values, standards, their cultural and intellectual
frames of references. We have our models, values, st andards and frames of references. We are open to the
entire human experience in every field. We learn from them, but we will never import ready-made models. We
do not accept that, and our society does not accept this. As for the allegations about foreign labor, it is an old
theme, repeated every now and then. Yes, certain sectors of foreign labor are not in the state we like or hope.
But we are steadily improving that state, and we are making progress every year. For years, the talk about
foreign labor has not ceased. Such talk is open to all and to the countries that provide such labor. Despite that,
millions are trying to come to work in our country. So, why do those foreign countries don’t stop their citizens
from coming to work in the UAE if the work situation is such as these nasty reports claim?

By Al Emarat Al Youm

The UAE is facing a regional and global media campaign that questions its ability to
overcome the global financial crisis. How does Your Highness evaluate such campaigns?
What are the tools and the initiatives with which to respond, including the development
of local media?

Action is louder than words. Our achievements and hard work would be the response to these campaigns. The
UAE is immune to such campaigns, and questioning of its ability to continue developing a strong federation is
not going to yield anything. When we established the UAE federation, we faced analysis and speculation
campaigns, questioning our ability to sustain the Federation and ensure its success. Similarly, the launch of
every major project was met with uncertainty and rumors from media campaigns. All these campaigns are
history now and their promoters have been proven to be wrong.

As for your suggestion of responding to these campaigns with tools and initiatives, including the development

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024956
