STEVEN PINKER

Steven Pinker was born in 1954 in the English-speaking Jewish

community of Montreal,Canada. He earned a bachelor’s
degree in experimental psychology at McGill University and
then moved to Cambridge, Massachusetts in 1976, where he
has spent most of his career bouncing back and forth between
Harvard and MIT. He earned his doctorate at Harvard in 1979,
followed by a postdoctoral fellowship at MIT, a one-year stint
as an assistant professor at Harvard, and in 1982, a move back
to MIT that lasted until 2003, when he returned to Harvard.
Currently he is Harvard College Professor and the Johnstone
Family Professor in the Department of Psychology. He also
has spent two years in California: in 1981-82, when he was an
assistant professor at Stanford, and in 1995-96,when he spent
a sabbatical year at the University of California, Santa Barbara.
Pinker is an experimental psychologist who is
interested in all aspects of language and mind. Much of his
initial research was in visual cognition, the ability to imagine
shapes, recognize faces and objects, and direct attention within
the visual field. But beginning in graduate school he cultivated
an interest in language, particularly language development
in children, and this topic eventually took over his research
activities. Aside from his experimental papers in language and
visual cognition, he wrote two fairly technical books early in
his career. One outlined a theory of how children acquire the
words and grammatical structures of their mother tongue. The
second focused on one aspect of this process, the ability to
use different kinds of verbs in appropriate sentences, such as
intransitive verbs, transitive verbs, and verbs taking different

combinations of complements and indirect objects. For the
next two decades his research focused on the distinction
between irregular verbs like bring-brought and regular
verbs like walk-walked. The reason is that the two kinds of
verbs neatly embody the two processes that make language
possible: looking up words in memory, and combining words
(or parts of words) according to rules. He has also studied
language development in twins and the neuroimaging of
language processes in the brain, and has recently begun
lines of research on the nature of reminding and on the
function of innuendo and other forms of indirect speech.
In 1994 he published the first of five books
written for a general audience. The Language Instinct was
an introduction to all aspects of language, held together by
the idea that language is a biological adaptation. This was
followed in 1997 by How the Mind Works, which offered a
similar synthesis of the rest of the mind, from vision and
reasoning to the emotions, humor, and art. In 1999 he
published Words and Rules: The Ingredients of Language which
presented his research on regular and irregular verbs as a
way of explaining how language works in general. In 2002
he published The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human
Nature, which explored the political, moral, and emotional

colorings of the concept of human nature. The Stuff of Thought:

Language as a Window into Human Nature, published in 2007,
discussed the ways in which language reveals our thoughts,
emotions, and social relationships. His most recent book is
The Better Angels of Our Nature: Why Violence Has Declined,

[¥-47-F4

Show this card when paying fi

Montrez cette carte en payant le prix d

published in 2011. Pinker frequently writes for The New York
Times, Time, The New Republic, and other magazines on
subjects such as language and politics, the neural basis of
consciousness, and the genetic enhancement of human beings.
Pinker is the Chair of the Usage Panel of The
American Heritage Dictionary and has served as editor or
advisor for numerous scientific, scholarly, media, and
humanist organizations, including the American Association
the Advancement of Science, the National Science Foundation,
the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the American
Psychological Association, and the Linguistics Society of
America. He has won many prizes for his books (including
the William James Book Prize three times, the Los Angeles
Times Science Book Prize, and the Eleanor Maccoby Book
Prize), his research (including the Troland Research Prize
from the National Academy of Sciences, the Early Career
Award from the American Psychological Association, and
the Henry Dale Prize from the Royal Institution of Great
Britain), and his graduate and undergraduate teaching.
He is also a Humanist Laureate, the 2006 Humanist of
the Year, recipient of the 2008 Innovations for Humanity
Award from La Ciudad de las Ideas in Mexico, the 2008
Honorary President of the Canadian Psychological
Association, and the recipient of six honorary doctorates.
Pinker lives in Boston and in Truro
with Rebecca Newberger Goldstein. The other
authors in the family are his sister Susan Pinker
and Rebecca’s daughter Yael Goldstein Love.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017554
