IATTERSON

aring variations on a scheme Mrs.
perpetrated against her late hus-
is his mentor. Seckel took books
10k money and promised a book;
rty lost money.”

, humorous,” one of Seckel’s marks
$75,000. When the time came to
O it.”

al people whom Seckel had stiffed
uits he’d been involved in. In 2007,
ainst aman who'd edited his Wiki-

heimer spoke with Seckel’s lawyer,

at he’d reached a settlement for the
unalist wrote. “Hornberger added
‘im for his services.”

I's wife, Isabel Maxwell.

id date and married in Malibuinor ~
p the dates in my head,” Seckel j

they moved to the South of France, ~
de in rare books and papers. While i
| by a Virgin Islands company a
-audulently attempting to sell ra

sury portrait of Isaac Newton.
ng to sell papers belonging to

ell’s sister and the daughter of Ro

Firtyy Ricu

It was an odd thing, Epstein’s association with this self-professed
PhD who, on closer inspection, turned out to be a bit of a grifter.
But the Mindshift conference that Epstein and Seckel hosted
in the Virgin Islands did take place, in 2010. Murray Gell-
Mann was there, along with Leonard Mlodinow, a physicist who
coauthored books with Stephen Hawking. Gerald Sussman, an
expert on artificial intelligence who taught at MIT and also
attended the conference, said that he didn’t remember too much
about it.

“We had scientific discussions, talked about various things,”
he said vaguely.

When Mark Oppenheimer asked him if he’d given money to
Seckel, Sussman “got testy” with the reporter.

“I have had some dealings with him,” Sussman said, “I don't

want to say what it’s about, because I don’t feel good about
it, okay?”

: Today, Epstein’s websites—JeffreyEpsteinFoundation.com and
q JeffreyEpsteinScience.com—are down. Their domain names have
long since expired. Several recipients of Epstein’s charitable con-
q tributions, including New York’s Mount Sinai Hospital and Ballet
4 Palm Beach, announced that they would not be accepting new
' gifts.

“The further I can keep myself from anything like that the

i: etter,” said Ballet Palm Beach founder Colleen Smith.

But in 2012, Epstein held one more conference on Little Saint

4 S. Once again, three Nobel Prize winners were in attendance.

stephen Hawking was also there. All in all, Epstein had gathered
Wventy-one physicists— from Princeton, Harvard, MIT, and CERN

q
a

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022042

