If it were ultimately established that the Fund is engaged in a U.S. trade or business, the Fund
generally would be required to withhold and remit to the U.S. government a percentage of the
Fund’s net income and gains that are both effectively connected with that trade or business and
allocated to Non-U.S. Partners, and would be liable for interest and penalties with respect to
amounts which were not so withheld. The relevant withholding percentage is the maximum
U.S. federal income tax rate for individuals or corporations, as applicable. In addition, Non-U.S.
Partners generally would be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax in
respect of their shares of the Fund’s effectively connected income including capital gains, but
would be allowed a credit against U.S. federal income tax liability for amounts withheld by the
Fund on their behalf. Non-U.S. Partners which are non-U.S. corporations might also be subject
to a “branch profits” tax on certain earnings of the Fund deemed to have been repatriated to
those Partners.

Treatment of Interest and Dividends from U.S. Sources - Certain categories of investment
income from U.S. sources realized by the Fund, such as dividends and interest, generally will be
subject to U.S. income tax withholding, at a 30% rate on the gross amount of that income, when
included in the distributive shares of Non-U.S. Partners. A Non-U.S. Partner whose distributive
share of such income is subject to U.S. withholding tax may be able to claim an exemption or a
reduced rate of withholding under a tax treaty or convention between the U.S. and that
Partner's country of residence by providing appropriate documentation regarding that
Partner’s residence for tax purposes and its satisfaction of any conditions imposed by the treaty.
A Non-U.S. Partner resident in a jurisdiction with which the U.S. has a tax treaty, however, will
not be entitled to the benefits of that treaty with respect to that Non-U.S. Partner’s distributive
share of the Fund’s income and gains unless the Fund is treated as fiscally transparent under
the law of that non-US. jurisdiction and certain other conditions are satisfied. Finally, in order
to claim the benefits of a tax treaty to reduce U.S. withholding tax on U.S.-source interest and
dividends paid by corporations that are not actively traded, a Non-U.S. Partner — and any
direct or indirect equity owner of a Non-U.S. Partner seeking treaty benefits for itself because
the Non-U.S. Partner is considered fiscally transparent in that equity owner’s jurisdiction —
generally will be required to obtain a U.S. taxpayer identification number from the IRS and may
be required to provide that number and certain other documentation to the Fund. Other
exemptions may be available for certain types of interest income.

Treatment of the Fund’s Capital Gains from U.S. Sources - Under current U.S. law, in general,
capital gains attributable to sales by the Fund of the securities of U.S. corporations will not be
subject to U.S. federal income taxation or tax withholding when allocated to a Non-U.5. Partner
unless that Partner is an individual who is present in the U.S. for 183 days or more during the
taxable year in which such gains are realized and certain other conditions are satisfied.

This general rule does not apply to gains attributable to a U.S. trade or business or gains
attributable to dispositions of securities of any “United States real property holding
corporation” (“USRPHC”), defined in Section 897 of the Code as, in general, a company with
50% or more of the fair market value of its business assets consisting of interests in U.S. real
estate and related assets. Capital gains attributable to sales by the Fund of the securities of a
U.S. corporation that is a USRPHC (other than debt securities with no equity component) may
be subject to U.S. income tax, collected initially by withholding, to the extent allocated to any
Non-U.S. Partner. Non-U.S. Partners would also be required to file U.S. federal income tax

80 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024091
