e Investment Theme - Care Coordination: Today in healthcare, most conditions require the
involvement of multiple healthcare professionals, including primary care physicians,
specialists, nurses, assistants, and therapists, and the care they provide must be
managed closely with participation from the patients themselves and their family
members. Unfortunately, poor coordination and information sharing amongst
caregivers creates significant inefficiencies at the points of hand-off between providers,
leading to repeat tests, missed diagnoses, and expensive mistakes that diminish
outcomes, and in some cases put patients at substantial risk. TigerText (NLV-ID) has
developed a secure text messaging platform that can be used on any mobile phone that
allows healthcare professionals to rapidly communicate and exchange clinical data files
to improve and coordinate care.

e Investment Theme - Clinical Error Reduction: Administrative, medication and procedural
errors are responsible for billions of dollars of cost annually in the U.S. healthcare
system. Many of these problems can be reduced by bringing relevant information into
the right setting at the appropriate time. For example, ePocrates (Sprout IX, NASDAQ:
EPOC - Acquired by athenahealth for $293 million, 3.1x multiple) allows physicians to
quickly reference drug formulary, dosing and interaction information, thus reducing the
error rate in prescriptions.

Problem Area: Unnecessary Services & Missed Prevention Opportunities

e Investment Theme - Analytics & Data-Driven Personalization: Many conditions are currently
diagnosed on single or limited data points, measured in the hospital or physicians’

office, that may not accurately reflect (or detect) the patients’ condition. Examples
include diseases with episodic or fluctuating symptoms such as cardiac arrhythmias,
Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s, depression and other behavioral health issues. iRhythm
Technologies (NLV-II) developed and markets an innovative, highly wearable, patch
technology capable of recording continuous electrocardiograms for up to 14 days. This
product has demonstrated a 5x improvement in diagnostic yield for cardiac arrhythmias
relative to 24 - 48 hour Holter monitoring.

The large scale deployment of electronic medical records (“EMRs”), healthcare
information exchanges, and diagnostic and monitoring technologies, is driving
exponential growth in professional health data around patient care and outcomes. At
the same time, patients are discussing and sharing their own health care experiences and
personal health data involving providers, therapeutics, and procedures on the internet.
These vast and rapidly growing professional and consumer oriented healthcare data sets
create an unprecedented repository of longitudinal data on populations of patients. By
mining these data sets using big-data techniques and technologies that are being
deployed successfully in other industries, it is possible to identify important findings
that have huge commercial value that might previously have never have been detected.
Specifically, the Fund Managers believe analytics applied to these data sets will allow
care gaps to be readily identified and addressed, and best practices to be frequently
revised, leading to a consistent iterative cycle of improvement. Treato (NLV-II) has
developed a social health intelligence platform (aka “Social Listening”) that identifies,
analyzes and aggregates medical user generated content spread widely across the web

39 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024050
