location, velocity and directional tendency of every point generated by a dynamical
system by an arrow on the surface of action, the manifold, of a dynamical system.
This field of arrows indicating directional and strength of motional tendencies is
called a vector field. A vector represents its location at the base of the arrow, its
velocity by the length of the arrow (called the modulus) and the direction of the
motion by the direction of the arrow. If we regard all moduli as equal to one, every
vector on the surface has the same length. The resulting graphs are called direction
fields. Looking at a stop-action photograph of any point on this surface, its
associated vector informs about where the system would take it over the next unit of
time. The whole surface can be marked by initial points, which the dynamical
systems move as they generate patterns of orbits of moving arrows in time. The
following two brain and behavioral experimental circumstances make this depiction
and its relevance to dynamical entropy more concrete.

We review in more detail the concrete and visualizable findings from
experiments requiring the quantification of characteristic patterns of motion in
animals and man. They can be embedded into a similar surface-like setting, which
might be called a behavioral manifold. For examples, my students from the past,
Martin Paulus and Mark Geyer, now Professors at the Medical School of the La
Jolla branch of the University of California studied the effects of psychotropic drugs
on the patterns made on the floor by rats of various genetic strains while they
wandered about, in exploratory behavior in a bounded space. Monitored by a video
camera placed above the ceiling less cages, the patterns made by the paths taken
by the rats over time were reconstructed as vectorial orbits on a behavioral
manifold. This manifold was then repeatedly partitioned, covered with, from just a
few large, in graded progression, to many smaller boxes, each partition composed
of rectangular lattices of a particular size. Units of time were also partitioned into
range of units from larger to smaller durations of observation. Differences in the
rat’s genetic strain as well as injections of stimulants, antidepressants or
antipsychotic drugs resulted in characteristic and discriminable path geometries
mapped onto the behavioral manifold as orbital patterns. Each path was encoded

as a sequence of size-dependent numbered boxes that were entered and occupied

79

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013579
