but without the crazy father and son scenes of Homers hand around Bart’s
throat.

T was enjoying our conversation, when Jeffrey insisted that I give Matt
a foot massage throughout the duration of the short flight. I never turned
down a client but when I saw the shape of his feet, I nearly threw up at
the thought of having to touch them. He had yellow crusty toenails that
even someone with a chainsaw would’ve had troubles cutting through
and then there was the fluffy balls of leftover pieces of sock wedged
between the crevices of his sweaty toes, now that was the real icing on
the cake for me, no way could I attempt this I thought. Then I had an
idea. 1 went to the back of the plane and rinsed a wash cloth in warm
soapy water and returned for his dreaded foot massage but not before
attempting to clean them first.

In return for my services Matt was kind enough to draw me two quick
sketches on blank paper from his briefcase of my two favorite characters,
Homer and Bart. I asked if he would make them out to my little brother
and dad, the true fans of the family not missing an episode during dinner
over the past ten years or so. Next to the A-4 size drawing he was able to
fit in the quote “To my greatest fan from Matt Groening” and their names
next to it. I knew they’d absolutely love it, and it was such a nice gesture
his feet were no longer an issue as | laughed it off and even made a joke
to the comedian about getting a pedicure before hitting L.A’s beaches.

The flight was only short and we arrived in busy L.A within the hour,
saying Good-Bye to Matt, who was a pleasure to meet. Jeffrey had a
meeting at a production studio for one of the girls he was keeping lured in
his grasps, so we were off yet again for more business. We were staying
with one of his old girlfriends, Jeffrey’s code for “She got to old for my
taste, but was still nice enough to keep around”. She was a tall blonde
with blue eyes, a stereotypical Barbie doll. In her younger years she had
been a successful model and now lived on the beaches of Santa Monica
with a sweeping view of the oceans landscape as her backyard.

The next morning Jeffrey and I went out to breakfast. He said Sarah
Keller, would be joining us with another one of Jeffrey’s girls I hadn’t
met yet, her name was Nadia Bjorlin and she was a Yugoslavian model
turned aspiring actress, with the help of Jeffrey, as he so proudly
remarked at the table before they arrived shortly thereafter. She was a
stunning brunette with olive skin tones and shocking blue eyes. By far
one of the most beautiful girls [had ever met before. She and Sarah
approached the table, shopping bags in hands already in the early hours of
the day. They both pulled out a chair and showed us their new pair of
Jimmy Choo’s they had bought on their way here this morning, and
excitedly asked for Jeffrey’s opinion. He loved the doting attention and
anyone who could make him feel important. We all went back to Sarah’s

53

O Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004186

apartment that Jeffrey rented for her on Malibu Beach. This was the first
time Jeffrey came to visit and when we got there you could see why. It
was a tiny one-bedroom shack, too small for his likes of accommodation,
but she loved it and it was plain to see why, the waves lapped underneath
her porch twice a day, what else could anyone want. Before even walking
through her door, you could hear the commotion of excitedly screaming
females voices coming from inside. There were about five other girls in
Sarah’s living room and she had invited them so Jeffrey could have a few
different girls to choose from. Jeffrey looked at Sarah and smiled, aren’t
you sweet, as all the girls rushed to introduce themselves, hoping for the
opportunities Sarah had offered them to come in the first place.

We all had some coffee and biscuits while the conversation kept getting
louder and louder, every girl trying to talk over the next one. Jeffrey
could handle only so much of that before getting too annoyed. Instead of
choosing one of the other new girls, Jeffrey wanted Sarah to show Nadia
and I into her bedroom. He was anticipating the introduction of his two
favorite girls together, what mischief he had hoped we would get up to
was apparent when he asked where Sarah had kept her play toys and not
the fisher price ones. Sarah brought out quite a collection of her personal
toys and was giggling on her way out as she shut the door. Suddenly the
room behind us went quiet, probably hoping to catch a moan or groans
too laugh at and I felt so degraded having everyone knowing exactly what
was going on. Knowing my duties well | was baffled this time as there
was no ritualistic massage wanted. He immediately instructed us to start
kissing and fondling each other with the provided toys straight away
seeing his excitement grow watching us try and out do the other one with
pleasure, he couldn’t keep restraint any longer and started to have
intercourse with the both of us, taking his erect penis out of the other to
only swap to the other girl, back and forth. This continued for a good
fifteen minutes or so while we continued to engage in lesbian acts on
each other while the other girl was being subdued by Jeffrey’s thrust’s of
penetration. Nadia was just as dutiful as I was in fulfilling his demented
requests, willing to lend her body to Jeffrey and those he sent her too, for
the sake of keeping her acting career and putting on a good act at that.
She was never competition though. Once I found out where she actually
came from I took pity on her for the similar life of servitude we were both
accustomed too and not that we ever became good friends but we had
reason to relate to each other.

Later on Jeffrey, Nadia and I went to a production studio in L.A, where
we had to meet with Nadia’s agent as well as the producer of “‘Day’s Of
Our Lives”. The meeting lasted five minutes, with everyone in consent to
the proposal. We flew all the way out there to talk about money, only to
be leaving that evening back to N.Y.C. On the way to the airport we

54

Cl Copyright Protected Material

GIUFFRE004 187

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021171
