Your office is a multi billion dollar responsibility. your children will inherit it , in order to oversee their
financial lives- I feel for you, truly ,but the facts are the facts, your ceo ( Brad) has provided one bad
document after another for over a year , no getting away from it,, bad cashflows nonewIT, each time
with  its gettting better no in fact -! itsnot. - the excuse, that Brad is not the numbers guy, is ludicrous.
of course he didnt actually prepare the statements. - no ceo would ,- but over and over he presented them to
you and me, after , holding them back for his personal review multiple times and after multiple drafts. weeks
of his editing, the consistant but inexplicable missing the obvious serious errors .( gaming ) inaccuracies,
( cashflow ) and mistakes (tax returns). why, ?! the simple answer is that at best, he is a c minus, (note. I, like
you ,also give points for effort. )-! an elegant art partnership gone fallow. ??!!I and its core reason to exist.
not used ? no docs for plane?, still! why? no docs for decantings why? the docs for deal 1 received last
night , no docs at all for deal 2, the biggest . why wasn't Tom brought in, after 4 times of my incessant
reminders ispoke to him , he knows little of either transaction except for over view. never saw pahidon
anything except projections until yesterday ? ?and this after your clear admonition etc. re the trading
accounts no activity, at all,

Barry Cohen is great. more like him please .
you asked ,- I did my best trying to train your brad chosen people in the face of my telling you that they were
never going to be more than c-minuses, thousands of emails thousands ? Brad at its head . you can't asa
ceo, have an accountant give you multiple pages with the most important numbers missing altogether and not
notice, you and IJ saw the errrors right away ,as did my very junior bookeeper after only a cursory glance. He
told me he didnt know the details of his note? ! , my guess is that he wanted to pay less. no more than that, any
other story is blather. its silly. Talk to richard yourself.
re your estate. Yes another Brad issue - your will, needs revision. the tenants in common structure I assume
Alan has carefully walked you through. it is way overdue, needed and exciting. I won't list the more serious
issues in an email but we can speak over the weekend.

How can Thelp? We agreed at the time when you hired Castrucci , that when you fired him, I would bear no
responsibility because it was clear that he shouldnt be hired. brad and you both said , its on us, but... the
equivalent of your art consultant pointing to a picasso and calling itarenoir. then a brancusi and calling it a
michaelangelo. those were the types of erros that i saw immediatily, you said give them more time. at least
they saw it was a painting and not a photo?

being weaned of our biz /pay realtionship has been our mutual goal. However since novemebr, you chose to
do so by ignoring' our agreement re, phaidon,and your oft stated commitment to me of large payments for
large value, (37 percent was our number ). chose to pay me a number picked by what appears to be only by
whim,- have yet to justify it except for telling me that you and Brad Karp talked...

What should we do? the next two years in biz world appears to both you and I, very fragile. Im happy to
have brad sit in ?

Date: Thu, Oct 15, 2015 at 10:38 PM

Subject:
To: Melanie Spinella Po
Office, - adagoes. ,hire heather a paralegal. Joslin goes or is closely managed by new cfo with tax

experience. .castrucii goes asap.as he merely adds to mess.( too many people , ex 7 people or more to pay a
bill ) eva goes. outsource as much as possible... bookkeeping systems built from scratch, airplane
restructure, boat . same, new grats. phaidon sale , decide on artspace survivability, regan, . do the kids really
want these? , children accounting ie bens house.etc. re do estate for new facts. redo loans, trading accounts
activity, . gaming -foreign- disclosures. . BRH TRA re thinks . household and construction

architects. . redone. art partnership , choice of paintings. . re do structure of consultants. tax re family

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023313
