Freedom House

Conclusion

Authoritarianism Comes Calling

Until very recently, the spread of the methods and strategies
described in this report has largely been greeted with complacency
and indifference in the democratic world. Even as it became clear
that the rejection of liberal values by Russia, China, and other
authoritarian states was a permanent fixture of global politics,
democracies convinced themselves that although modern
authoritarianism posed a challenge to the spread of freedom beyond
its current reach, their own freedoms were in no jeopardy.

In the aftermath of the stunning events of 2016, it is
apparent that the post-Cold War democratic order is
in fact facing an unprecedented threat. Britain’s vote
to leave the European Union (EU), the election of Don-
ald Trump as president of the United States, and the
emergence of populist demagogues across Europe
have all raised questions about the future of democra-
cy in its traditional bastions.

It can no longer be assumed that Russia's challenge
to democracy is limited to its policies of internal
repression and aggression toward neighbors like
Ukraine and Georgia. The Kremlin’s development of
parallel institutions—government-controlled civil
society, a propaganda machine based on the latest
media technologies, realistic but purely decorative
elections—was once regarded as a project intended
for Russia alone. When Angela Merkel, in response to
Russia's invasion of Ukraine, exclaimed that Vladimir
Putin lives in a different world, she meant a specif-
ically Russian universe where facts are irrelevant,
international treaties are obsolete, and sovereignty is
a matter of power rather than law.

Now, however, the Kremlin has attempted to project
this version of reality onto the democratic world. In
the United States, Russia brazenly interfered in the
electoral process through hacking efforts sponsored
by its intelligence agencies. Whether this interference
actually affected the outcome of the election is sub-

ject to debate. But there is strong evidence, endorsed
by the entirety of the U.S. intelligence establishment
and numerous independent analyses, that the inter-
ference did occur.

Just as worrying is the suggestion that the United
States, much like Russia itself, has entered a “post-truth
era,” in which lies and distortions carry as much weight
as facts. Clearly, at least some of this hand-wring-

ing was a partisan reaction to Trumps victory. But it
followed an election in which the winning candidate
falsely claimed, among other things, that the balloting
was rigged against him, that violent crime had reached
record levels, and that undocumented immigrants were
responsible for a large share of the violence.

Meanwhile, as of early 2017, populist parties with Rus-
sian-friendly platforms and histories of nativism and

other forms of bigotry were expected to gain ground in
upcoming elections in countries like the Netherlands,
France, and Germany.

As it became more obvious that the democracies
were poorly equipped to contend with resurgent
authoritarianism, the leading autocracies were exper-
imenting with more frightening methods of assuring
domestic political control.

China in particular seemed to take an Orwellian
turn with the planned introduction of a social credit

www.freedomhouse.org

57

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019291
