122 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

inhibitors and activators like in real synapses. An individual neuron will
fire if the sum of all the connections multiplied by the weights reaches a
certain pre-determined threshold.

A neural network does not run a program in the conventional
sense, and must be trained through experience rather like a human
brain. The training process allows the weights in the network table to
be adjusted to give the correct result. But, unlike the brain, you can read
the weights and even save them to a disk. The neural network tables
start with random settings. You show the network the letter ‘A’ and
adjust the weights in the tables until it gives a positive answer: ‘It’s an
A. Repeat the process with the other letters until the network correctly
distinguishes them. As you do this a computer algorithm constantly
adjusts the weighting tables using a method called ‘back propagation.

At the end of the training process you can show the network some
new input and see how it does. For example, a letter ‘A that is in a slightly
different font to anything in the training set. Trained neural networks
can perform complex tasks such as recognizing faces or making clinical
diagnoses, and they can be allowed to modify their weighting tables as
they work so they learn from experience in a similar way to a human
brain. Strong AI proponents believe making a thinking machine is just
a matter of building a really large, fast neural network and working out
how to train it efficiently.

Quantum Brains

Conventional wisdom says each brain cell is a single processing unit
making an on-off decision — fire, or don't fire - depending on the state
of its neighbors. But, Stuart Hameroff, Professor of Anesthesiology
at the University of Arizona, thinks neurons are not the fundamental
information-processing unit in the brain. He suggests that this accolade
should go to tubulin. Tubulin is a small, versatile protein that self-
assembles into filaments rather like the way buckyballs - a magnetic
children’s toy — can be arranged. There are two types of tubulin molecule:
a and B. They slot together and wrap around to form a micro tube about
25nm in diameter.

Tubulin micro tubes do several important things in the body.
They form the skeleton of neurons and give them structure. They are
involved in guiding neurons as they grow towards each other to form
new connections, and they also operate in the nucleus of a cell to unzip

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015812
