Area Analysis 9

A mild tropical climate, scenic beauty, and status as a U.S. territory make Virgin Islands appealing for
vacationers from United States and Europe. The islands host over 2.5 million visitors per year, most of
whom arrive by cruise ship, and tourism is the dominant economic engine of the islands, accounting
for roughly 70 percent of the total gross territorial product.

Each district has its own distinct landscape, mix and intensity of land uses, cultural identity, and
prospects for future development. St Thomas is home to the capital and the territory’s largest city,
Charlotte Amalie, which has an estimated population of roughly 19,000 persons. St Thomas is the
primary center for resort tourism, government, finance, trade, and commerce, but its rugged
landscape limits the land available for agriculture and other types of land-intensive development.
Charlotte Amalie is also home to a major deepwater harbor that is along major shipping routes to the
Panama Canal, and it is just east of the Cyril E King International Airport — one of the busiest airports in
Caribbean. St. Thomas has two cruise ship docks, and is the most frequented cruise ship port in the
Caribbean.

The island of St John is just under 3 miles to the east of St Thomas. Cruz Bay is located on the western
coast of the island and serves as its primary port and link to St Thomas. Nearly two thirds of St John is
owned by the National Park Service and is off-limits to commercial development.

St Croix is largest of the three islands, in both land area and population. It is roughly 45 miles to the
south of St Thomas. Its primary towns are Christiansted and Frederiksted. Overall the island is flatter
and has more land available for additional agricultural, commercial and residential development than
St Thomas. St Croix is also the primary manufacturing center for the Virgin Islands, with rum
distilleries, a major watch-assembly plant, and; until February 2012, one of the world’s largest
petroleum refineries (which recently ceased refining operations).

History

The Virgin Islands were originally settled by the Ciboney, Carib, and Arawaks. The islands were named
by Christopher Columbus on his second voyage in 1493 for Saint Ursula and her virgin followers. Over
the next three hundred years, the islands were held by many European powers, including Spain,
England, the Netherlands, France, and Denmark-Norway. The Danes developed the islands with
plantation estates, and the estates boundaries are still used in legal descriptions for land to this day.

The U.S. took possession of the islands on March 31, 1917 and the territory was renamed the Virgin
Islands of the United States. U.S. citizenship was granted to the inhabitants of the islands in 1927.

Government

The U.S. Virgin Islands are an organized, unincorporated United States territory. Even though they are
U.S. citizens, Virgin Islands residents cannot vote in presidential elections. Virgin Islands residents,
however, are able to vote in presidential primary elections for delegates to the Democratic National
Convention and the Republican National Convention.

The main political parties in the U.S. Virgin Islands are the Democratic Party of the Virgin Islands, the
Independent Citizens Movement, and the Republican Party of the Virgin Islands. Additional candidates
run as independents.

; ; irr.
IGY American Yacht Harbor Marina

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018819
