23

depend on the willingness of the military to allow an open political
process to take place.

The Syrian government’s response to the Arab world’s turbulent
spring, by contrast, has been both violent and vacillating. Its initial
response was to characterize the protests across the country as the
result of a global conspiracy fomented by a clutch of unlikely allies,
including the US, Israel, and Arab enemies in Lebanon, Saudi Arabia,
and Qatar, working with former regime officials and homegrown
Salafists, or fundamentalists. Then President Assad tried to defuse the
opposition by receiving protest delegations and announcing the
lifting of long-standing emergency laws, apparently acknowledging
the existence of legitimate grievances. But this proved no more than a
gesture. In effect the government’s response has been contradictory to
the point of incoherence: as the Brussels-based International Crisis
Group points out in a report released on May 3:

The regime has lifted the emergency law but has since allowed the
security services to conduct business as usual, thereby illustrating just
how meaningless the concept of legality was in the first place. It
authorises demonstrations even as it claims they no longer are
justified and then labels them as treasonous. It speaks of reforming
the media and, in the same breath, dismisses those who stray from the
official line. It insists on ignoring the most outrageous symbols of
corruption. Finally, and although it has engaged in numerous bilateral
talks with local representatives, it resists convening a national
dialogue, which might represent the last, slim chance for a peaceful
way forward.

Over seven hundred people have been killed so far, more than a
hundred of them in the southwestern city of Deraa, near the Jordanian
border, where the Omari mosque—a center of resistance—has been
closed to worshipers after being shelled by tanks and taken over by
snipers. Some ten thousand people are now said to have been

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030082
