Freedom House

7. The rewriting of history will become more wide-
spread and will greatly complicate societal ef-
forts to confront both past and present political
abuses. The rehabilitation of Joseph Stalin and
the airbrushing of Mao Zedong’s destructive
reign serve to facilitate an authoritarian form of
nationalism in which strength and unity super-
sede justice and freedom, and the state is exalt-
ed at the expense of individual human beings.

8. Authoritarian or illiberal forces are more likely to
gain supremacy in countries where the parties
that represent liberal democracy do not simply
lose elections, but experience a full-blown political
collapse, whether through corruption, ineptitude,
or failure to build lasting bonds with the public. In
the end, elections do matter, and real change still
requires victory at the polls. This is why robust,
self-confident, and uncorrupted opposition par-
ties are essential to democracy’s survival.

Recommendations

In studies of this kind, recommendations are primarily
addressed to policymakers, particularly in the admin-
istration and Congress of the United States. Given
the election of Donald Trump, however, a different
approach is called for.

Trump has made clear again and again his admiration
for Vladimir Putin, to the point of asserting a kind of
moral equivalency between the Russian and American
governments. Since he assumed office, Trump and
certain aides have encouraged in America the kind of
“oost-truth” environment that has prevailed in Russia
under Putin. The new president has shown no interest
in an American role in promoting human rights and
democracy around the world; indeed, he seemed to
dismiss this core element of U.S. foreign policy in

his initial address to Congress, instead emphasizing
“harmony and stability and “the sovereign rights of all
nations.” Under these circumstances, to rely first and
foremost on the U.S. government to meet the chal-
lenge posed by Russia, China, and other authoritarian
states would amount to an exercise in futility.

The role of governments, both in the United States
and Europe, will remain crucial. But the threat posed
by modern authoritarianism has spread well beyond
its original proving grounds. To some extent, the prob-
lems discussed in this report have already infected
the United States and a number of European coun-
tries. They represent a menace to the media, academ-
ic freedom, civil society, electoral systems, and the

rule of law. They even put in jeopardy the integrity of
the facts and figures that an accountable government
and a successful economy require. When the values
of the political leadership are seen to waver, indepen-
dent, nongovernmental voices and institutions will

be called upon to do their part—not just to defend
democracy at home, but to convince skeptical politi-
cians and citizens that supporting the same struggle
abroad serves the public interest.

To the U.S. government: We urge the Trump adminis-
tration to appoint a director of global communications
who is experienced in journalism and allow that per-
son to build a program to counter hostile authoritari-
an messaging through up-to-date delivery techniques,
honest reporting, and forthright commentary. Near
the end of 2016, Congress passed legislation that
placed the country’s government-supported interna-
tional media outlets—Voice of America (VOA), Radio
Free Europe/Radio Liberty (RFE/RL), and their sister
services focused on Asia and other regions—under
more direct presidential control, on the theory that a
commander-in-chief who was committed to counter-
ing aggressive Russian influence would be better able
to develop and implement new strategies. President
Trump has yet to indicate how he intends to use this
authority.

In the contest against Soviet communism, America’s
international broadcasting entities were the crown
jewels of U.S. soft power. Indeed, in some countries,
such as Poland or Romania, Radio Free Europe
functioned as the opposition press, and clearly had

a greater audience and more influence than the
censored government press. In the post-Cold War
period, what were initially shortwave radio services
have evolved into modern media outlets, with video
content, podcasts, blogs, social media engagement,
and other forms of information delivery. Nevertheless,
the United States today needs to update the strategy
and operations of its publicly supported broadcast-
ers and—most importantly—provide them with the
resources to compete with a Russian propaganda
machine that is nimble, attuned to popular discontent,
and generously funded.

To the independent media: The mainstream press
in the United States has recently shown increased
interest in reporting on Russian methods of infor-
mation warfare, some of which have been embraced
by far-right media outlets that seek to undermine
popular support for the core institutions of Ameri-
can democracy. We urge more responsible media to

www.freedomhouse.org

5g

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019293
