180 Teaching Minds

alternatives, and finally decided on an explanation, and then perhaps
you tested that explanation another time. A self-generated explana-
tion is a hypothesis, and hypotheses that we have come up with our-
selves serve as the basis for learning. We tend to remember what we
ourselves have said and thought more than we remember the words
of others,

Rule #7: Help students come up with their own explanations
when they have made a mistake.

Here is the next one.

Mistake #8: Thinking that a student remembers what you just
taught him

I can’t tell you how many times I have said X in a lecture or dis-
cussion only to be asked why I believed not X. Why does this happen?
People really don’t listen. They are not being annoying. They really
can’t easily listen. There is so much going on in their own heads while
you are talking that it is remarkable they hear anything of what any-
one says to them. Teachers live in a world where students are worried
about the perceptions of their friends, events at home, and a million
other things that have nothing to do with what a teacher is saying. A
teacher simply cannot assume that a student will remember what he
was just told. In any case, a teacher shouldn't necessarily be telling
students the truth.

How could telling a student the truth be a bad idea? When tell-
ing is about facts, it is certainly a fine idea. But remember, I do not
think that it is the job of a teacher to tell students facts. A teacher’s
primary responsibility is to get students to understand the world bet-
ter and to help enhance their capabilities. Neither of these things hap-
pens through a teacher telling a student anything. Comprehension is
an internal affair, arrived at by thinking. Ability comes from practice.
Neither comes from a teacher. What a teacher can do is to encourage
students to take on more and thus enhance their capabilities, or think
more and thus enhance their comprehension. This means that telling
a student a fact that he needs just makes it all too simple. Figuring out
what you need is the real issue. Confirming what a student has dis-
covered is a fine idea, but even that isn’t always a matter of telling the
student the truth. A Socratic teacher might deny what he knows is true

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023926
