To have freedom from doing that which you dislike.

NR: To have freedom from doing that which you dislike, but also the freedom and resolve to pursue your

dreams without reverting to work for work’s sake (W4W). After years of repetitive work, you will
often need to dig hard to find your passions, redefine your dreams, and revive hobbies that you let
atrophy to near extinction. The goal is not to simply eliminate the bad, which does nothing more than
leave you with a vacuum, but to pursue and experience the best in the world.

Getting Off the Wrong Train

The first principle is that you must not fool yourself, and you are the easiest person to fool.
—RICHARD P. FEYNMAN, Nobel Prize—winning physicist

Eoncue is enough. Lemmings no more. The blind quest for cash is a fool’s errand.

I’ve chartered private planes over the Andes, enjoyed many of the best wines in the world in between
world-class ski runs, and lived like a king, lounging by the infinity pool of a private villa. Here’s the
little secret I rarely tell: It all cost less than rent in the U.S. If you can free your time and location, your
money is automatically worth 3-10 times as much.

This has nothing to do with currency rates. Being financially rich and having the ability to live like a
millionaire are fundamentally two very different things.

Money is multiplied in practical value depending on the number of W’s you control in your life: what
you do, when you do it, where you do it, and with whom you do it. I call this the “freedom multiplier.”

Using this as our criterion, the 80-hour-per-week, $500,000-per-year investment banker is less
“powerful” than the employed NR who works 4 the hours for $40,000, but has complete freedom of
when, where, and how to live. The former’s $500,000 may be worth less than $40,000 and the latter’s
$40,000 worth more than $500,000 when we run the numbers and look at the lifestyle output of their
money.

Options—the ability to choose—is real power. This book is all about how to see and create those
options with the least effort and cost. It just so happens, paradoxically, that you can make more money—
a lot more money—by doing half of what you are doing now.

So, Who Are the NR?

e+» The employee who rearranges his schedule and negotiates a
remote work agreement to achieve 90% of the results in one-tenth
of the time, which frees him to practice cross-country skiing and
take road trips with his family two weeks per month.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013814
