mere —

Introduction

The Department of Justice and the United States
Postal Inspection Service are committed to ensuring
that victims of federal crime are treated fairly as their
case moves through the criminal justice system.

In order to provide victims with information on case
events, the Department of Justice has developed the
Victim Notification System (VNS). This brochure
provides information about VNS.

Victim Notification System (VNS)

VNS is a cooperative effort between the Federal
Bureau of Investigation (FBD, the United States
Postal Inspection Service (USPIS), the United States
Attorneys’ Offices, and the Federal Bureau of Prisons
(BOP).

This free, computer-based system provides important
information to victims. In many cases you will
receive letters generated through VNS containing
information about the events pertaining to your case
and/or any defendants in the case.

This information is also available in English and
Spanish on the Internet and through a toll-free
telephone number (Call Center). In cases with many
victims, you may receive only one letter and then be
directed to the Internet or Call Center for further
information.

VNS Information

Registration:

You will receive a Victim Identification Number
(VIN) and a Personal Identification Number (PIN)
that will allow you to access VNS on the Internet and
using your telephone. You may write those numbers
on the attached tear-off card to keep with you.

If you have chosen to participate in VNS, but have
not received these numbers, please contact either the
FBI, the USPIS, or U.S. Attorney’s Office handling
your case.

nse ~=- Your VIN and PIN numbers are
both required any time you
contact the Call Center or when
accessing VNS on the Internet.

VNS Internet Access:

© You may access information about the case via

the Internet at: http://www.Notify. USDOJ.Gov
‘You will be required to enter your VIN and
your PIN.

® The Web site, in some instances, may provide

additional information that is not available
through the Call Center.

(Refer to Common Questions, numbers 4, 5 & 6
below, for more information regarding the Internet.)

The VNS Call Center:

You may call 1-866-DOJ-4YOU (1-866-365-
4968) for current information. You will be
required to enter your VIN and your PIN.

By following the prompts, VNS will provide
custody information and notice of upcoming
court events.

The Call Center will include options to hear:

Q
Upcoming Events - information on future
court hearings

Historical Court Events - information on past
court hearings

Detailed Information on Each Defendant -
information regarding criminal charges filed,
the outcome of the charges, and the sentence
imposed by the Court; if the defendant is in the
custody of BOP, the custody location,
projected date of release from custody and
other release information.

VNS Notification:

‘You may also receive information about case events
by telephone, email, numeric pager, or fax. Please
note that in some rare instances, VNS may contact
you by phone which will require use of your PIN.

Common Questions

Below are some common questions about VNS. If at
any time you have a question about VNS that is not
answered here, please feel free to contact your local
FBI, USPIS, or U.S. Attorney’s Office.

1. When can I call the VNS Call
Center or access VNS on the
Internet?

(Eastern Time)
Monday - Friday 6:00 a.m. - 3:00 a.m.
Saturday 6:00 a.m. - 12:00 a.m.
Sunday 8:00 a.m. - 12:00 a.m.

1-866-DOJ-4YOU - (1-866-365-4968)
International Callers:
(1)502-213-2767
http://www.Notify.USDOJ.Gov

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021561

