etc). 18 debra and children ? current and future involvement . notifications etc. . new dynasty trust ? 19.
tax plan and dislosures gaming. foreign apollo and phaidon related . 20. investments rationalize incl
trading accouints .21. bank loans . rates ? ? terms etc. consolidate. plane boat houses. disclosures? 22
. consolidate and review and reduce the number of all bank accounts and legal entities. decanting
liquidating etc. . 23 all outside consultants? valuations etc. 24 review legal bills carefullly. 25. third
party responsibilty Bens house , alex films . etc.

Date: Tue, Nov 3, 2015 at 10:45 PM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella

okay, its time for you to decide how you would like to move forward. ( fyi get your money from the
1031 . the screw up is only one of many,) If you decide to move foward on decanting. phaidon, note
basis estate update , each requires many carefully orchestrated detailed steps. and precision . there are
hundreds of millions in saving if done correctly and a huge mess if not. Ifyou want me and my
colleagues to do it , oversee it paper it and guide it, you should tell me. It is a big undertaking . If not ,
ok .. Brad and your crew can do it. I will have no real further involvement apart from confirming the
outcome of my proposed structure, I will not risk the admonition of- they thought you said, they thought
you meant, they understood it to be. but they said you said, (ie ,l asked at our meeting that accounting
be done properly for bens house , what came back was ada thought that I meant that we needed to go
back to the 97 trust and give him a full third party accounting of where his money had gone??!! I kid you
not). I dont think brad should talk to jane heller without a fully fleshed out plan in place and even then it
should be you.

Date: Mon, Nov 30, 2015 at 11:21 AM

Subject: agenda

To: Melanie Spinella

1 fees, amount and to what entities when and responsiblitis. 2. gagosian idea to save a minimum of 10
mill and maybe more. 3. ican walk you through carlyns screw up, 50 % would have made little
difference and maybe made it worse . 4. we should have an all hands meeting with your family to talk
about art distribution on death. . 5. phaidon, decantings ( already firmly in progress ) loans. (alan )
pent. ( with follow up ) all part of same elegant transaction, 6 asymetric risk worth at least 50- 60 no
matter how you calculate. I can explain. 7 lets get the money issue out of the way once and for all. I
have my team set to start.

Date: Fri, Dec 4, 2015 at 8:07 AM

Subject: Fwd: moving forward

To: Melanie Spinella <3 ii >

I had forgotten that Alan was actually at the table when i explained my note deal to you. _—it was at the
end of the meeting described below. . as you will recall , not once , not even a peep did alan suggest
contemporaneously his hand in the crafting, in fact brad said it was an idea. that HE brad, HAD HAD ,
from the begiining . my emails between alan and I that you can read , further confirm authorship. Im sure
you recall the obnoxious tooting when alan said he agreed with my plan. .

Date: Mon, Nov 2, 2015 at 10:03 PM

Subject: moving forward

To: Melanie Spinella

I have mixed emotions about what transpired today. really, You saw first hand in nauseating detail
what i have been saying to you for quite a while now. —_Joslins answers were totally incomprehensible.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023259
