246 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

used in Hawaii to guide or assist Snowden, they would be put back
into sleeper mode. If any telltale traces had been left in chat rooms
or social media, they would be systematically deleted. Even more
important to the ultimate success of such a communications intel-
ligence coup, measures would be taken to conceal the extent of the
damage done by the “single point of failure” by not precipitously
closing down compromised sources. Snowden might believe that
the power of the information he held was so great that if disclosed
by him, all the NSA’s sources would immediately go dark in Russia
and China, but Russia might not wish to provide such clarity to its
adversaries. An intelligence service need not close down channels
it discovers are compromised by an adversary. Instead, it can elect
to continue to use them and furnish through them bits of sensitive
or misleading information to advance its own national interest. The
real danger here was not that the NSA’s “lights” would dramati-
cally be extinguished but that all the future messages illuminated by
those lights would be less reliable sources of intelligence. The game
of nations is, after all, merely a competition among adversaries to

© gain advantages by the surreptitious exchange of both twisted and ©
straight information.

To review: When the NSA asserted in the summer of 2013 that
over one million documents had been compromised, it was recog-
nizing the most massive failure in its sixty-year history. Not only
were NSA secrets taken, but secret files from the CIA, the British
GCHQ, and America’s cyber military commands had been compro-
mised. It was, as Sir David Omand, the former head of the British
GCHQ, described it, a “huge strategic setback” for the West. The
genie could not be put back into the bottle. There is not a reset but-
ton in this game. The best that the NSA could do now was damage
control while its adversaries took full advantage of the setback. Sev-
eral hundred U.S. and British intelligence officers worked around the
clock in Washington, D.C., Fort Meade, Maryland, and Cheltenham,
England, for months on end to determine which parts of the most
powerful communications intelligence system in the world could be
salvaged from what had been the Snowden breach.

Adding insult to injury, Snowden, speaking from his new perch
in Moscow, told applauding audiences that the entire purpose of

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r.indd 246 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019734
