OIA oO bw WN

189

airplane flights with Jeffrey Epstein. They have me
ona number of flights, none -- let me emphasize,
none within the relevant time period, none within
the relevant time period. That is, there are no
manifests that have me on Jeffrey Epstein's airplane
during the time that Virginia Roberts claims to

have -- falsely claims to have had sex with me.

So, yes, not only recall making that
statement, but | repeat it here today. And it ts
absolutely true. And it just confirms what I know,
and that is that Virginia Roberts made up the entire
story.

BY MR. SCAROLA:
Q. Your statement --

MR. SCOTT: What page are you reading

from?

MR. SCAROLA: Page 5.

Q. Your statement was that you were never on

a private airplane with this woman, which I assume
was a reference to Virginia Roberts, correct?

It is, yes.

Or any other underage girl?

. That's right.
All right. How many times --
Well, let me be very clear. [have no

190

idea who was in the front cabin of the airplane with
the pilots. Obviously what | intended to say and
what I say here now is I never saw an underaged
person on an airplane.

Now, when | -- when I flew with Jeffrey
Epstein to the launch, my recollection is that there

may have been a couple on the plane with their child

who was going to see the launch. But that was
certainly not the context in which | made the
statement.

I never saw any underage, young person who
would be the subject or object of any improper
sexual activities. Had I seen Jeffrey Epstein ever
in the presence of an underage woman in a context
that suggested sexuality, | would have, A, left the
scene; B, reported it; and, C, never had any further
contact with Jeffrey Epstein.

Q. You have also made the statement that you
were never on a private airplane with any underage
women or any young women, correct?

A. The context was underage women in a sexual
context. If it was a -- you know, a four-year-old
child being carried by her mother, that would not be
included in what | intended to say.

Q. Your sworn testimony yesterday, according

ow AO he WN

Ro
RF Oo oO

4,971.

to the transcription, the official transcription of
that testimony, was that, quote:

Let me emphasize that the manifests that
do exculpate me do not shew me flying with Virginia
Roberts, they do not show me flying with any young
women.

‘That was the testimony you gave under
oath. Do you stand by that testimony today?

A. The manifests that | saw corroborate my
own memory -- my own memory is as clear as could
be -- that I never saw any inappropriately aged,
underaged women on any airplane to my knowledge that
were visible to me at any time that I flew. That is
my testimony, yes.

Q. Well, that's not a response to the
question that J asked. Is it your testimony today
that you never flew on a private airplane with,
quote, “any young women?

MR. SCOTT: Objection, form.

A. By young women, I obviously meant in that
context underage women. And underage women in the
context of sexuality. And, yes, I -- I stand by
that statement.

BY MR. SCAROLA:
Q. Allright. So your -- your clarification

wow oy DA WH & WY

NNN NN KD HPP PB Be oP ee oe OE
Oe WNP OM OY HD GH WN FO

192

of your earlier testimony is that you never saw any
young women in a sexual context?

A. That's not clarification. I think that's
what | initially said. That's what | initially
intended. And that's the way any reasonable -- any
reasonable person would interpret what my original
testimony was. So | don't believe my original
testimony required any clarification.

Q. So what you meant to convey by the
statement that you made when you said you never flew
with any underage girl or any young women was you
never fiew with any underage girl or young women in
a sexual context?

MR. SCOTT: Objection, form.
BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. Is that correct?

A. Let me simply repeat the fact and that is,
to my knowledge, | never flew on an airplane or was
ever in the presence on an airplane with any
underage woman who would be somebody who might be in
a sexual context. | say that only to eliminate the
possibility that some four-year-old was on the lap
ofa mother or somebody was on the airplane with
family members.

But, no, | do not recail -- and I'm very

4 (Pages 189 to 192)

www.phippsreporting.com
(888) 811-3408

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010786
