for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The following discussion is based on the assumption that
the Fund will not be treated as a “publicly traded partnership.”

Treatment of U.S. Partners and Non-US. Partners - The discussion below addresses separately
certain U.S. federal income tax matters relevant to U.S. Partners and Non-U.S. Partners. For
purposes of this discussion, the term “U.S. person” generally means any U.S. citizen or resident
individual, any corporation, limited liability company, or partnership organized under U.S. law,
any estate (other than an estate the income of which, from sources outside the U.S. that is not
effectively connected with a trade or business within the U.S., is not includible in its gross
income for U.S. federal income tax purposes), and any trust if a court within the U.S. is able to
exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one or more U.S. persons
have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust. The term “U.S. Partner”
means any partner that is a U.S. person and, unless the context otherwise requires, includes any
U.S. person that holds an equity interest in the Fund through one or more partnerships or other
entities treated as transparent for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The term “Non-U.S.
Partner” means a Partner that is not a U.S. person.

Taxation of Fund Operations Generally - As a partnership, the Fund will not pay U.S. federal
income taxes, but each U.S. Partner will be required to report that Partner’s distributive share
(whether or not distributed) of the Fund’s income, gains, losses, deductions and credits of the
character specified in Section 702 of the Code. It is possible that the U.S. Partners could incur
U.S. federal income tax liabilities without receiving from the Fund sufficient distributions to
defray such tax liabilities. The Fund’s taxable year will be the calendar year, or such other
period as required by the Code. Tax information will be delivered to all Partners on an annual
basis to enable the Partners to complete their tax returns.

Election to Adjust Basis of Fund Assets - Under the principal agreements relating to the Fund
and Section 754 of the Code, the General Partner will have the authority to elect to adjust the
basis of the Fund’s assets (commonly referred to as “Section 754 adjustments”) in connection
with certain distributions made by the Fund to Partners or certain transfers of Limited Partner
Interests in the Fund. Although the General Partner has no present intention of making an
election on behalf of the Fund under Section 754 of the Code, Section 754 adjustments may
nevertheless be mandatory under certain circumstances and could affect the amount of a
Partner’s allocations (for U.S. federal income tax purposes) of gain or loss recognized by the
Fund on a disposition of its assets.

The General Partner also will have the authority under the principal agreements relating to the
Fund to elect to treat the Fund as an “electing investment partnership” and, as a result,
potentially avoid making Section 754 adjustments that otherwise would be mandatory with
respect to certain transfers of Limited Partner Interests in the Fund. Such election, however,
may result in the disallowance (for U.S. federal income tax purposes) of certain losses allocated
by the Fund to transferees of Limited Partner Interests in the Fund. It is possible, however, that
the Fund will not be able to qualify as an electing investment partnership.

The General Partner will have the authority to require any Partner engaging in a transaction
that requires a Section 754 adjustment (for example, a transfer of the Partner’s Limited Partner

Interest) to bear the ongoing administrative and other costs incurred by the Fund or its Partners
in connection with these basis adjustment rules. These costs, which could be significant, may be

74 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024085
