172 Teaching Minds

Did I teach her to ignore stupid no left turn signs? Of course I
did. But I never said such a thing to her or taught her how to decide
when it was safe to ignore a sign. I was just in her world and she was
watching.

I observed a similar phenomenon with my son. I like to watch
football and my son sat with me and learned to watch too. Twenty
years later, when an event occurred on the field, I noticed that we said
exactly the same thing at the same time. “Oof,” “oh come on,” “ugh.”
Whatever event on the field caused me to exclaim something, caused
my son to exclaim the same thing. Now, I could not tell you what
was an “oof” and what was an “ugh,” and neither could he. I do this
kind of thing unconsciously and so does he. He learned what I had to
teach, but he doesn’t know what he learned and I don’t know what I
taught.

What does this have to do with teaching? Perhaps we just need
to watch our teachers and then we can copy what they do. Well, not
exactly.

I took a yoga lesson the other day. The instructor got into a pose
and said I was to copy what he did. I said there wasn’t a chance that
I could copy what he did. He wasn’t used to being talked to like this.
(Most students are better at being students than I am, of course.) I
explained that I could barely understand what he had done, despite
seeing it, and I certainly didn’t know the intent of what he had done,
so I wouldn’t know which aspects of his action were significant and
which were unimportant. I told him this was no way to teach.

Now I know I will not be able to teach the yoga instructor how
to teach better, and I doubt he will be reading this book. But whether
you are teaching yoga or baseball or science or business, the rules are
the same. Before I list them, let me start with the top mistakes teach-
ers make. Some of these mistakes are forced on teachers by a badly
designed education system, and some are ones that teachers make no
matter what they are teaching or which system they are teaching in.

Some of these are less than obvious. So, let’s consider them one
by one:

Mistake #1: Assuming that there is some kind of learning other
than learning by doing

Mistake #2: Believing that a teacher’s job is assessment

Mistake #3: Thinking there is something that everyone must
know in order to proceed

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023918
