BREAKING DOWN DEMOCRACY: Goals, Strategies, and Methods of Modern Authoritarians

alternative perspectives are permitted on a carefully
rationed basis. But dissenting opinions are invari-

ably subjected to relentless attack and ridicule, and
the dissidents themselves face a form of character
assassination in which their views are twisted to make
them appear foolish, extreme, unpatriotic, or immoral.

Christopher Walker, a vice president at the National
Endowment for Democracy who has written exten-
sively on modern authoritarianism, believes that con-
trol of information is the most important achievement
of today’s generation of autocrats:

| think modern authoritarians have been
adept at adjusting to the new environment.
They recognize that trying to control the
wealth of information out there is impossi-
ble, and therefore they don't try. There are

a number of countries which have found
effective ways to incorporate entertainment
and culture into their media offerings while
keeping domination over the political sphere.
They have thus defied the assumptions we
held 20 years ago when the internet was
emerging. The conventional wisdom then
was that the internet guaranteed media
diversity, and there is no way regimes could
keep the genie in the bottle. In fact, in many
countries authoritarians have kept the genie
in the bottle through managing the political
narrative and denying people access to key
information.’*

Walker's comments certainly apply to conditions in Rus-
sia. During the communist period, Soviet propaganda
was meant to justify both state socialism and Russia's
isolation from the global economic system and Western
culture. In Russia, China, and elsewhere, it is now pos-
sible for citizens to enjoy the latest international music,
fashion, and entertainment while hating the liberal
values that are systematically disparaged in the media.

What is tragic about all this is that Russians already
came through a decades-long period of propaganda
in which reality was twisted and lies circulated as a
conscious matter of national policy. Orwell and other
foes of totalitarian rule sought to describe the danger
that propaganda and censorship posed to knowl-
edge, reality, and independent thought. But instead of
things getting better after the demise of totalitarian-
ism, a newer and in some ways more insidious form of
information control has emerged, one which does not
so much try to persuade people that the government

line is the only correct line, but that facts do not exist
as such and nothing can be believed.

China: 21st-century censorship

The Chinese model of information control differs in
crucial ways from the propaganda methods favored by
Russia. Especially in its policies towards the internet,
China focuses its energies on preventing access to in-
formation or news on a wide and perpetually evolving
range of subjects that the ruling Chinese Communist
Party (CCP) regards as sensitive.

Under Xi Jinping, who took power in late 2012, the
government has been much more open in arguing for
the right of the political leadership to censor internet
content. He has, in fact, launched a campaign de-
signed to radically redraw the global rules on internet
freedom so as to enshrine the concept of “internet
sovereignty,” according to which individual countries
would “independently choose their own path of cyber
development” and “model of cyber regulation.

In late 2015, Xi also made the baffling statement,
“Freedom is what order is meant for, and order is

the guarantee of freedom.!* Over the next several
months, regulators moved to enforce the president's
vision for tighter CCP control over all news media and
imposed rules that further restricted the production
of independent news content by online outlets.!”

Perhaps most important have been the threats to the
livelihood and personal liberty of bloggers and online
commentators. In recent years, the state has pursued
a campaign of arrest, prosecution, and public humil-
iation directed against well-known microbloggers
and other media personalities, including a series of
televised “confessions.” The machinery of repression
was directed against those who had used their plat-
forms to criticize the leadership or its policies, and to
a disturbing extent, the effort has been successful in
silencing such criticism.

Among other recent developments in the CCP’s cen-
sorship drive:

¢ The authorities have punished journalists
for publishing news about the economy that
highlighted negative trends, and issued media
directives aimed at shaping coverage of econo-
my-related topics. The economy was the second
most censored topic in China in 2015, a year
that featured a dramatic stock-market crash and
slowing economic growth.!®

18

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019252
