Even from jail, Jeffrey Epstein manipulated the system | Miami Herald Page 11 of 17
Case 1:19-cv-03377 Document 1-1 Filed 04/16/19 Page 12 of 18

The work release was approved by the Palm Beach County Sheriff’s Office,
said spokeswoman Therese Barbera.

“Jeffrey Epstein, while in custody, met the criteria for the Work Release
Program,” Barbera wrote in an email. “There was no factual basis to deny
Mr. Epstein the same availability of this program that is offered to other
inmates under similar circumstances. Mr. Epstein was closely monitored

and there were no problems encountered during his time in the program.”

But the sheriff’s own work release policy — a copy of which Barbera provided
to the Herald — specifically notes that sex offenders aren’t eligible for work While officially confined to the Palm Beach County stockade, serving time for his sex
release. offenses, Jeffrey Epstein was allowed to spend half his day at this West Palm Beach

office building. It was called work release, although Palm Beach Sheriff's Office rules
At first, Barbera questioned whether Epstein was a sex offender at all, noting _ prohibit work-release status for sexual offenders. Emily Michot

that he didn’t have to register officially until after his release from the jailin = £M/CHOT@MIAMIFIERALD.COM
2009. But his court papers clearly listed him as a sex offender. In fact, the papers Epstein signed — obtained by the Herald — included all the laws
governing registered sex offenders in Florida.

Barbera refused to explain why Epstein was seemingly allowed to deviate from the agency’s policies. She also would not respond to requests for an
accounting of the amount of money that Epstein paid the sheriff’s office for his private details.

Palm Beach Sheriff Ric Bradshaw, who has been in office since 2004 — and is widely considered to be one of the most powerful people in the county — did
not respond to requests for comment.

Aspokeswoman for Palm Beach County Sheriff Ric Bradshaw declined to say why Jeffrey Epstein was allowed work-release status despite rules prohibiting work release for sex
offenders. Taylor Jones PALM BEACH POST

Epstein’s registration requirements are somewhat confusing, even to those who are responsible for keeping his registration. The Florida Department of
Law Enforcement, which keeps the online registry, and the Palm Beach County Sheriff’s Office, where Epstein has to register in person twice a year, gave

https://www.miamiherald.com/news/local/article2 19494920 html 4/3/2019
HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017811
