168 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

all requests to meet with any representative of the U.S. embassy in
Moscow. From that point on, he would act as Snowden’s go-between
with the FSB and other Russian agencies.

At the outset, Kucherena made it clear to Snowden that he would
have to play by Moscow’s rules before the Kremlin would grant him
permission to stay in Russia. To begin with, Snowden had to with-
draw any applications he had made elsewhere for asylum. He had to
put his fate entirely in the hands of Putin’s Russia. He would also
have to be fully candid with the Russian authorities on what was of
great value to Putin: the secret documents he had acquired.

Eighteen days later, Snowden received Russian identification
papers that allowed him to resettle in Moscow. He was provided
with a residence and allowed to set up a broadcasting studio in it
that he could use for Internet appearances at well-attended events
around the world, such as South by Southwest and TED. Snowden
was, according to Kucherena, also furnished with bodyguards. To
help earn his keep, he was said by Kucherena to be employed at an
unidentified Moscow cyber-security firm. To complete his resettle-

® ment, Lindsay Mills, whom he had left behind in Hawaii, was given ®
a three-month visa and was allowed to temporarily live with him in
Moscow. This afforded him a lifestyle that Snowden described in an
interview as “great.”

It would strain credibility that such privileges would be awarded to
an intelligence defector who had refused to cooperate with Russian
authorities. In Snowden’s case, he was even allowed to participate in
Putin’s telethon on state-controlled television. On it, he was called
on to ask Putin if the Russian government violated the privacy of
Russian citizens in the same way that the American government
violated the rights of its citizens. Putin, smiling at Snowden’s pre-
sumably vetted question, answered in a single word: “No.”

In the Moscow scenario, the Russians acted to advance their inter-
ests. They gave Snowden sanctuary, support, perks, and high-level
treatment because he agreed to cooperate with them. If Snowden
had not paid this basic price of admission, either in Russia or before
his arrival, he would not have been accorded this privileged status.

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 168 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019656
