all you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail -- sometimes including our own
psyches and sexualities.

Plus, if the only available patterns for kink emphasize something a person doesn't like,
then that person will probably avoid kink. Note that in the research I linked to, for
example, the percentage of submissive women was higher in samples from within the
BDSM subculture than in samples from outside the BDSM subculture... perhaps because
many BDSM subcultural gatherings emphasize female submission and thereby alienate
women who are primarily dominant. Anyway, regardless... this is still the wrong
question.

In short, inherent female submission is the wrong question.

Certainly, I've fought through a lot of personal fears about what my interest in BDSM
meant for me as a feminist... but these days I have trouble understanding what, exactly,
got me so upset. I can't believe how long it took me to outthink those fears. Now, it just
seems instinctively obvious to me that:

1) The only reason these conversations happen at all is that BDSM, and especially
submission, is seen as broken and problematic and screwed-up and a sign of
weakness. What if we viewed S&M proclivities as a superpower rather than a
perversion? What if submission and masochism, in particular, were viewed as signs of
strength and endurance and emotional complexity, rather than weakness?

2) Sexual kinks don't necessarily affect one's performance in non-sexual fields. A
sexually submissive woman won't make a bad CEO (at least, not because she's sexually
submissive). I mean, come on, it's not like there aren't sexually submissive men in
powerful corporate positions. When I was younger I remember being scared that, in some
bizarre way, I was betraying women's liberation by being sexually submissive; this seems
ridiculous to me now. That fear can only survive in a culture where people are looking
for excuses -- no matter how flimsy -- to control and disempower women. Because it
doesn't make any damn sense on its own.

3) Rape is still rape. Everyone still has a right to consent, including submissives. A
submissive partner (of any gender) must be able to withdraw consent, and a dominant
partner (of any gender) must make space for them to withdraw consent. It's always great
when both partners can have an honest conversation about desire, trying to avoid pressure
and unfair expectations (whether those expectations arise from sexist culture or from
whatever else). Safewords are one frequently-recommended communication tactic for
those who have rape fantasies, although they aren't the only tactic. What really burns me
about many discussions of inherent female submission is that they have horrible
overtones of blaming the victim and justifying rape... much like she was wearing a short
skirt, so she was asking for it. In reality, inherent female submission says absolutely
nothing about women’s right to choose our partners and protect our bodily integrity.
Female submissives have made it perfectly clear that we do, in fact, claim that right.

I think most of the dudes who ask this question come to me, a feminist, and they ask this
question in hushed and worried tones, because they are decent guys and they are
concerned about The Consequences Of This Terrible Truth. I'd venture a guess that

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018548
