wo oan nub wn pe

NNN NNN FP BE BB Be Be Be oe oe oR
“ob WN HE OO ON AUP WKH OO

wo ON AU SP WN BH

NNNNN NB BB BP Be BP BR Be BoB
Ob wWwNH OHO MANA MN FP wWNH O

205

the source of that honest belief was? Identify any
source that attributed to Virginia Roberts the
statement that Bill Clinton was with her at an orgy
on Jeffrey's island.

A. We can provide you about, | think, 20
newspaper articles and blogs which certainly raise
the implication that Bill Clinton had improperly
participated in sexual activities on the island
either as an observer or as a participant. The
issue was raised on Sean Hannity's program. The
headlines in various British media had suggested
that.

It's my belief that Virginia Roberts
intended to convey that impression when she was
trying to sell her story to various media, which she
successfully sold her story to in Britain, that she
wanted to keep that open as a possibility.

And then when I firmly declared, based on
my research, that Bill Clinton had almost certainly
never been on that island, she then made a firm
statement that she -- which was a -- which was a
perjurious statement, a firm perjurious statement
saying that although Bill Clinton had been with her
on the island and had had dinner with her, the
perjurious statement was that Bill Clinton had been

—|

oOo Ona HM WN

NN NNN DN BP BE BBB Bp Be Be Be
WM PwWwNF OwU MAAN AM BWNH OO

Clinton on orgy island, things of that kind. I
would be happy to provide them for you. I don't
have them on the top of my head.

Q. There's a big difference between saying
that Bill Clinton was on Jeffrey's island and saying
that Bill Clinton was at an orgy on Jeffrey's
island, isn't there?

MR. SCOTT: Objection --
BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. Do you recognize a distinction between
those statements?

MR. SCOTT: Form.

A. I don't think that distinction was clearly
drawn by the media.

BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. I'm asking whether you recognize the
distinction?

A. Oh, I-- I certainly recognize a
distinction.

Q. Oh, so --

A. Let me finish. I certainly recognize a
distinction between Bill Clinton being on the
island, which I believe she perjuriously put in her
affidavit, and Bill Clinton participating actively
in an orgy. [also think it's a continuum.

206

on the istand with her.

The lie was that she described in great
detail a dinner with Bill Clinton and two underaged
Russian women who were offered to Bill Clinton for
sex but that Bill Clinton tumed down.

So she then put in her affidavit that
although -- perjuriously, although she had seen Bill
Clinton on that island, she then stated that she had
not had sex with Bill Clinton. To my knowledge,
that was -- to my knowledge at least, that was the
first time she stated that -- that she not had sex
with Bill Clinton, She had certainly implied, or at
least some of the media had inferred from her
statements that she may very well have observed Bill
Clinton in a sexually compromising position.

So, when | made that statement to Don
Lemon, I had a firm belief, based on reading
newspaper accounts and blogs, that it was true.

Q. Can you identify a single newspaper that
attributed to Virginia Roberts the statement that
Bill Clinton was with her at an orgy on Jeffrey's
island?

A. I think there -- I don't have them in my
head right now. But I do recall reading headlines
that talked about things like, sex slave places

wan nu bs ww

NNNNN NFP BB BP Be Be Be eB
Wob WN OO MIAN WN FO

And there is the possibility, which I
don't personally believe to be true, that he was on
the island. There was the possibility, which I
don't believe to be true, that he was on the island
when orgies were taking place. There was the
possibility that he was on the island and observed
an orgy, and there was the possibility that he was
on the island and participated in an orgy.

Newspapers picked up those stories. I'l
give you an example of a newspaper that actually
said that that she had placed or that ] was on the
island and -- that I participated in an orgy along
with Stephen Hawkings [sic.], the famous physicist
from Cambridge University, that was a newspaper
published in the Virgin Islands, which falsely
claimed that I was at an orgy with Stephen Hawkings.

So, many newspapers were suggesting,
implying, and I inferred from reading those
newspapers that that's what she had said to the
media.

If I was wrong about that based on
subsequent information, | apologize. But 1
certainly, at the time I said it, believed it and
made the statement in good faith in the belief that
it was an honest statement.

8 (Pages 205 to 208)

www.phippsreporting.com
(888) 811-3408

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010790
