26

But that is the weakest line of attack. Edward Gibbon once described
history as being little better than a record of the “crimes, follies and
misfortunes of mankind.” Imperialism certainly added its quota to
these. But the question is whether it also provided, through Hegel’s
“cunning of reason,” the means to escape from them. Even Marx
justified British rule in India on these grounds. Ferguson, too, can
make a sound argument for such a proposition.

The most serious weakness in Ferguson’s presentation is his lack of
sympathy for the civilizations dismissed as “the rest,” which also
points to the most serious limitation of the revisionist case. The
“triumph of the West” that followed the collapse of communism in
Europe was clearly not the “end of history.” As Ferguson must know,
the main topic of discussion in international affairs nowadays
concerns the “rise” of China, and more generally Asia, as well as the
stirring of Islam.

Of course, the Chinese may prefer to talk about “restoration” rather
than “rise,” and point to a “harmonious” pluralism of the future. But
“rise” is how most people think of China’s recent history, and in
history the rise of some is usually associated with the decline of
others. In other words, we may be reverting to that cyclical pattern
that historians assumed to be axiomatic before the seemingly
irreversible rise of the West implanted in them a view of linear
progress toward greater reason and freedom.

Europe is plainly in decline, politically and culturally, though most
Europeans, blinded by their high living standards and the pretensions
of their impotent statesmen, are happy to dress this up as progress.
Chinese savings are underwriting much of the American civilizing
mission that Ferguson applauds. The pattern seems clear: the West is
losing dynamism, and the rest are gaining it.

The remainder of this century will show how this shift plays out. For
the moment, most of us have lost the historical plot. It is possible, for

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030055
