6 | WEDNESDAY, JUNE 5, 2013

Views
Xi Jinping’s Chinese Dream

OBAMA MEETS
XI JINPING
American
policy makers
must under-
stand that the
new Chinese
leader needs to
bea
nationalist to
be a reformer.

Robert Lawrence Kuhn

BEWING What to make of Xi Jinping,
China’s new senior leader, who holds
his first summit meeting this week with
President Barack Obama?

The hope is that Xiis a reformer who
will guide China through domestic
transformation and to responsible
statecraft. The fear is that Xiis ana-
tionalist, who has set China on an ag-
gressive course of bullying its neigh-
bors and confronting the United States.

The fear seems not unfounded. China
has intensified its territorial claims,
from island disputes with Japan to vast
areas of the South China Sea.

Xi frequently inspects People’s Liber-
ation Army forces, especially naval
fleets, exhorting China’s military to
“get ready to fight and to win wars”’
and “to win regional warfare under
LT.-oriented conditions.”

Xi holds China’s top three positions:
head of the ruling Communist Party of
China, head of state, and, as chairman
of the Central Military Commission,
head of the military. He will likely lead
China for a decade.

Just after becoming party chief in late
2012, Xi announced what would become
the hallmark of his administration. ‘“‘The
Chinese Dream,’ he said, is “‘the great
rejuvenation of the Chinese nation.”

Xi’s Chinese Dream is described as
achieving the ‘““Two 100s”’: the material
goal of China becoming a ‘‘moderately
well-off society”’ by about 2020, the
100th anniversary of the Chinese Com-
munist Party, and the modernization
goal of China becoming a fully de-
veloped nation by about 2049, the 100th
anniversary of the People’s Republic.

The Chinese Dream has four parts:
Strong China (economically, politically,
diplomatically, scientifically, militar-
ily); Civilized China (equity and fair-
ness, rich culture, high morals); Har-
monious China (amity among social
classes); Beautiful China (healthy en-
vironment, low pollution).

“A moderately well-off society” is
where all citizens, rural and urban, en-
joy high standards of living. This in-
cludes doubling the 2010 G.D.P. per cap-
ita (approaching $10,000 per person) by
about 2020 and completing urbanization
(roughly one billion people, 70 percent
of China’s population) by about 2030.

“Modernization” means China re-
gaining its position as a world leader in
science and technology as well as in eco-
nomics and business; the resurgence of
Chinese civilization, culture and mili-
tary might; and China participating ac-
tively in all areas of human endeavor.

If Xi’s nationalism seems at odds
with these grand goals, it is not. Here
are six reasons why:

International Herald Cribune

THE GLOBAL EDITION OF THE NEW YORK TIMES

« Need to consolidate power. Xi was not
selected by Deng Xiaoping, the archi-
tect of reform, as were his predecessors
(Jiang Zemin and Hu Jintao), and he
was not elected by the people. Conven-
tional wisdom had it that Xi would be a
weak leader. In order to realize his
Chinese Dream, Xi needs to assert
strength and assure control. So far, he
has exceeded expectations.

« Need to enable reform. Xi and Premier
Li Keqiang are determined to enact far-
reaching economic reforms, the most
extensive in 15 years, but there is stiff
resistance from those whose domi-
nance would be diminished and bene-
fits cut (such as state-owned enter-
prises with ties to party power).

This resistance can no longer be
couched credibly in terms of ideology,
so it appeals to nationalistic aspirations
by accusing reformers of ‘worshipping
Western ways,” “glorifying Western
models” or ‘‘caving in to Western pres-
sures,”’ Xi’s proactive nationalism is a
strategy of ‘‘offense is the best de-
fense’’ — an inoculation, as it were,
against the political virus of being
labeled ‘‘soft’’ or “pro-Western.”

Reformers in China are generally as-
sociated with pro-American attitudes
and thus subject to fierce public crit-
icism. By establishing himself as a na-
tionalist operating independently of the
United States (his first foreign trip was
to Russia), Xiis able to secure econom-
icreforms by distinguishing them from
serving Western/American interests.

* Need to legitimze one-party rule. To
perpetuate its rule (which China’s top
leaders truly believe is essential for the
well-being of the country), the Chinese
Communist Party has constructed a
grand narrative that is founded on
three critical claims: Only the Commu-
nist Party can continue to improve cit-
izen’s standard of living (and amelior-
ate severe social and economic
disparities); only the party can main-
tain a stable, unified country and con-
struct a happy, harmonious society;
and only the party can effect the ‘“‘reju-
venation of the Chinese nation,” which
stresses a firm command of ‘‘core in-
terests’’ (i.e., sovereignty and territori-
ality) and increasing global respect.

* Maintain stability through unity.
China faces numerous internal ten-
sions, especially a class-divided popu-
lace (rich-poor, urban-rural, coastal-in-
land) that have erupted within one
generation. Moreover, an increasingly
complex society can fracture along mul-
tiple fault lines. Pollution, corruption,
healthcare, housing, migrant workers,
workers’ wages, social cynicism, chan-
ging values, among other raging issues,

EDITORIAL OPINION

threaten to tragment society — and all
are exacerbated by an energetic social
media. Only nationalism, which reson-
ates intrinsically and passionately
across Chinese society, can provide suf-
ficiently strong social glue.

© Differentiate from predecessors. Top
Chinese leaders must combine historic-
al continuity with their own distin-
guishing theories and practices. How
shall Xi fare?

Economic growth rates must decline,
and a host of domestic tensions (or
crises) are coming his way, such as
public anger at corruption and resis-
tance to pollution. Hence another ra-
tionale for nationalism.

In the past, nationalistic surges were
triggered largely by external events
(such as NATO's accidental bombing of
the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade in
1999). Xiis putting nationalism at the
core of his leadership — his nationalism
is proactive, riding the high road of pa-
triotism and pride.

* Personal beliefs. Xi has deep-seated
patriotic convictions, the product of
family, life and career. His father, Xi
Zhongxun, was a founder of the new
China and a leading reformer under
Deng Xiaoping. In 2006, when Xi Jin-
ping was party secretary of Zhejiang
Province, he told me about Chinese
pride and patriotism as motivating
China’s historic resurgence — words
remarkably similar to his recent pro-
nouncements.

So is Xiareformer? A nationalist?
The answer is that he is both, because
only by being a nationalist can he be a
reformer. American policy makers must
understand Xi’s nationalism so that
when the reigning superpower meets
the rising superpower, both can benefit.

ROBERT LAWRENCE KUHN is an international
investment banker and the author, most
recently, of ‘How China's Leaders Think:
The Inside Story of China's Reform and
What This Means for the Future.”

GLOBAL VIEWPOINT/TRIBUNE MEDIA SERVICES

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023701
