“Donald,” said Murdoch, “for eight years these guys had Obama in their pocket. They
practically ran the administration. They don’t need your help.”

“Take this H-1B visa issue. They really need these H-1B visas.”

Murdoch suggested that taking a liberal approach to H-1B visas might be hard to
square with his immigration promises. But Trump seemed unconcerned, assuring
Murdoch, “We’ll figure it out.”

“What a fucking idiot,” said Murdoch, shrugging, as he got off the phone.

OOK Ok

Ten days before Donald Trump’s inauguration as the forty-fifth president, a group of
young Trump staffers—the men in regulation Trump suits and ties, the women in the
Trump-favored look of high boots, short skirts, and shoulder-length hair—were watching
President Barack Obama give his farewell speech as it streamed on a laptop in the
transition offices.

“Mr. Trump said he’s never once listened to a whole Obama speech,” said one of the
young people authoritatively.

“They’re so boring,” said another.

While Obama bade his farewell, preparations for Trump’s first press conference since
the election, to be held the next day, were under way down the hall. The plan was to make
a substantial effort to show that the president-elect’s business conflicts would be addressed
in a formal and considered way.

Up until now, Trump’s view was that he’d been elected because of those conflicts—his
business savvy, connections, experience, and brand—not in spite of them, and that it was
ludicrous for anyone to think he could untangle himself even if he wanted to. Indeed, to
reporters and anyone else who would listen, Kellyanne Conway offered on Trump’s behalf
a Sself-pitying defense about how great his sacrifice had already been.

After fanning the flames of his intention to disregard rules regarding conflicts of
interest, now, in a bit of theater, he would take a generous new tack. Standing in the lobby
of Trump Towner next to a table stacked high with document folders and legal papers, he
would describe the vast efforts that had been made to do the impossible and how,
henceforth, he would be exclusively focused on the nation’s business.

But suddenly this turned out to be quite beside the point.

Fusion GPS, an opposition research company (founded by former journalists, it
provided information to private clients), had been retained by Democratic Party interests.
Fusion had hired Christopher Steele, a former British spy, in June 2016, to help investigate
Trump’s repeated brags about his relationship with Vladimir Putin and the nature of
Trump’s relationship with the Kremlin. With reports from Russian sources, many

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019911
