the early studies by Professor Seymore Kety of Harvard and Dr. Harold Himwich of
the Thudicum Laboratory in Galesberg, Illinois, using measures of whole brain
oxygen and glucose utilization as indices of energy generation and utilization by the
brain, surprised many of us. They indicated that energy use by the whole brain was
relatively constant when states of relaxed awakeness, mathematical cognition and
deep sleep were compared. Of course, modern studies have indicated that relative
regional brain energy utilization is state dependent and may vary quite widely.

More spiritual aspects of energies and their transformations were made
clearer during several month visits to Baba Muktananda’s, now Gurumayi
Chidvilasananda’s, Sidha Yoga Ashrams. Baba Muktananda loved and worshipped
his Hindu Guru, Bhagawan Nityananda. Baba had been a restlessly wandering,
guru-hunting, young man. Nityananda said he had “wheels for feet.” After many
years of devoted meditation, chanting and service, sadhanna, all the while being
prohibited from eating mangos, his favorite food, his passive, taciturn, ecstatic guru,
Nityananda, presented voluble, energetic, joyful Baba with the guru’s rather
aromatic and worn sandals. This symbolically acknowledged Baba’s successful
absorption of the guru’s transforming spiritual energy, shaktipat, the power of his
enlightenment.

At Nityananda death, Baba, using world tours, spiritual fellowship meetings,
satsangs (public conversations) and spiritual training sessions called “intensives’”,
organized Ashrams in West Coast sites such as Oakland and Venice, and on the
East Coast, in South Fallsburg, New York, buying several old residence hotels in
the Borscht Belt. Baba was introduced to America by one of his first advance men,
Be Here Now Baba Ram Das, Timothy Leary’s co-investigator in the Harvard
Student LSD project when his name was Richard Alpert. ESTs Werner Erhard was
another of Baba’s advance men.

Baba discipled and disciplined a sister and brother who, when 18 and 11
respectively, were sent to live in his Ashram in Ganeshpuri India by their parents.
The girl was known as Malti when she served as a translator for Baba and
Gurumayi Chidvilasananda after receiving the energy of her enlightenment. The

younger brother was given the name of Baba’s guru, Nityananda. When Baba took

47

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013547
