I leaned against the wall and slid down until I was sitting on the floor. I closed my eyes, smiled, and
took a deep breath. Things were about to change.

Everything was about to change.

Lifestyle Design from Dubai to Berlin

Tie 4-Hour Workweek has now been sold into 35 languages. It’s been on the bestseller lists for more

than two years, and every month brings a new story and a new discovery.

From the Economist to the cover of the New York Times Style section, from the streets of Dubai to the
cafes of Berlin, lifestyle design has cut across cultures to become a worldwide movement. The original
ideas of the book have been broken apart, improved, and tested in environments and ways I never could
have imagined.

So why the new edition if things are working so well? Because I knew it could be better, and there
was a missing ingredient: you.

This expanded and updated edition contains more than 100 pages of new content, including the latest
cutting-edge technologies, field-tested resources, and—most important—real-world success stories
chosen from more than 400 pages of case studies submitted by readers.

Families and students’? CEOs and professional vagabonds’? Take your pick. There should be someone
whose results you can duplicate. Need a template to negotiate remote work, a paid year in Argentina,
perhaps? This time, it’s in here.

The Experiments in Lifestyle Design blog (www.fourhourblog.com) was launched alongside the book,
and within six months, it became one of the top 1,000 blogs in the world, out of more than 120 million.
Thousands of readers have shared their own amazing tools and tricks, producing phenomenal and
unexpected results. The blog became the laboratory Pd always wanted, and I encourage you to join us
there.

The new “Best of the Blog” section includes several of the most popular posts from the Experiments
in Lifestyle Design blog. On the blog itself, you can also find recommendations from everyone from
Warren Buffett (seriously, I tracked him down and show you how I did it) to chess prodigy Josh
Waitzkin. It’s an experimental playground for those who want better results in less time.

Not “Revised”

Tris is not a “revised” edition in the sense that the original no longer works. The typos and small
mistakes have been fixed over more than 40 printings in the U.S. This is the first major overhaul, but not
for the reason you’d expect.

Things have changed dramatically since April 2007. Banks are failing, retirement and pension funds
are evaporating, and jobs are being lost at record rates. Readers and skeptics alike have asked: Can the
principles and techniques in the book really still work in an economic recession or depression?

Yes and yes.

In fact, questions I posed during pre-crash lectures, including “How would your priorities and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013802
