provide technical assistance, training, logistics and infrastructure services to support the Department
of State's efforts to strengthen criminal justice systems in select partner countries.)... yet, just
months shy of contract end, the NY Times reported: Tasked With Combating Opium, Afghan
Officials Profit From It; Penetrating Every Stage of Afghan Opium Chain, Taliban become a Cartel;”
and Corrupt Combatants Fight for Control of Lucrative Afghan Drug Trade; see also here an
overview of the growth of Afghan opium production from the start of the US occupation (2001) to the
present, and especially from contract start (2011) to end (2016): http:/Awww.globalresearch.ca/the-

spoils-of-war-afghanist.../91;

(4) and that the award Bud Horton helped secure just as Sue's contract was coming to an end was
not only born from what looks like Franklin Scandal compromises, but it is this contract that seems
intent on implementing bioterrorism as the new form of explosive terrorism.

(Note that both members of this family were awarded BILLION dollar contracts; that's quite
exceptional, no?)

As for terrorism as an US industry, it's hardly better seen than through the following which is
information of course we all know:

We note that in-between Bush #41's 9/11/1990 speech(with Dick Cheney as his Secretary of
Defense) and the 9/11/2001 attack on the WTC were little more than Clinton's 8 years in the White
House. We look also to The American Deep State by Peter Dale Scott for evidence of ties between
the actions of the Clinton administration and (1) the 1993 attack on the WTC and (2) the 1998 attack
on the US embassy in Nairobi, Kenya which demonstrate that the Clinton administration in no
uncertain terms sponsored terrorism:

(Writes Scott) The homicidal crime suggested by Fenton's meticulous research is one both difficult
and painful to contemplate. It has to be considered in the light of the earlier instances of protection
we have surveyed:

1. the protection given to Salameh and Abouhalima in the 1990 Kahane murder, leaving them free to
participate in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing;

2. the failure for two or three years to process Ali Mohamed's documents seized in 1990, which could
have prevented the 1993 World Trade Center bombing;

3. the release of Ali Mohamed from Royal Canadian Mounted Police detention in 1993, leaving him
free to participate in the 1998 Nairobi Embassy bombing;

4. the treatment of Ali Mohamed as an unindicted coconspirator in the 1993 WTC bombing case
and Landmarks case, leaving him free to participate in the 1998 Nairobi Embassy bombing.

(pp. 76-77, The American Deep State)

Scott had earlier examined these attacks in especial connection to the September 11, 2001 attack
on the WTC:

(Writes Scott) For indeed it is certain that on various occasions U.S. agencies have intervened,
letting al-Qaeda terrorists proceed with their plots. This alarming statement will be dismissed by
some as conspiracy theory. Yet in this chapter, | will show that this claim doesn't to arise from
theory, but from facts that are true, even though they have been systemically suppressed or under-
reported in the American mainstream media. | am describing a phenomenon that occurred not just

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015019
