Thursday, September 12, 2013
Page 2

42(h)), and Edwards’s refusal to force his clients to accept modest settlement offers
was claimed to breach some duty that Edwards owed to Epstein. Interestingly, Epstein
never states that he actually made any settlement offers. Even more interestingly,
Epstein was never able to explain how a scheme to defraud third party investors ever
caused any legally cognizable damage to Epstein himself.

The supposed “proof” of the Complaint’s allegations against Edwards included
Edwards’s alleged contacts with the media, his attempts to obtain discovery from
high-profile persons with whom Epstein socialized, and use of “ridiculously
inflammatory” language in arguments in court. Remarkably, Epstein filed such
allegations against Edwards despite the fact that Epstein had sexually abused each of
Edwards’s clients and others while they were minors. Indeed, in discovery Epstein has
asserted his Fifth Amendment privilege rather than answer questions about the extent
of the sexual abuse of his many victims. Even more remarkably, after filing his suit
against Edwards, Epstein settled the three cases Edwards handled for an amount that
Epstein insisted be kept confidential. Without violating the strict confidentiality terms
required by Epstein, the cases did not settle for the “minimal value” that Epstein
suggested in his Complaint.

Because Epstein elected to hide behind the shield of his right against self incrimination
to preclude his disclosing any relevant information about the criminal activity at the
center of his claims, he was barred from prosecuting his case against Edwards. Under
the well-established “sword and shield” doctrine, Epstein could not seek damages
from Edwards while at the same time asserting a Fifth Amendment privilege to block
relevant discovery. Here, Epstein tried to do precisely what the “well settled” law
forbids. Specifically, he tried to obtain “affirmative relief’ — 1.e., forcing Edwards to
pay money damages — while simultaneously precluding Edwards from obtaining
legitimate discovery at the heart of the allegations that form the basis for the relief
Epstein was seeking. As recounted more fully in the statement of undisputed facts
filed in support of Edwards’ Motion for Summary Judgment, Epstein has refused to
answer such basic questions about his lawsuit as:

e “Specifically what are the allegations against you which you contend Mr.
Edwards ginned up?”

e “Well, which of Mr. Edwards’ cases do you contend were fabricated?”

e “Ts there anything in L.M.’s Complaint that was filed against you in September
of 2008 which you contend to be false?”

e “I would like to know whether you ever had any physical contact with the
person referred to as Jane Doe in that [federal] complaint?”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029316
