Freedom House

lraq’s seizure of Kuwait in 1990. China's claim of
ownership of the South China Sea, along with its
creeping militarization of previously uninhabited
islets, is at least as ambitious as Russia's move,
though the impact is perhaps less jolting given
the dearth of occupied populations.

There have been other reversions to 20th-centu-
ry methods of repression. For example:

Political prisoners: During the 20th century,
opposition figures, political dissidents, advocates
for minority groups, and people who wrote critical
commentaries were regularly sentenced to prison
terms, often under grim conditions, by dicta-
torships of all stripes. Amnesty International's
founding mission was the defense of what were
called “prisoners of conscience,” and they ranged
from dissidents and Jewish refuseniks in the So-
viet Union to those who resisted right-wing juntas
in Latin America. Soviet dissidents like Natan
Sharansky and Vladimir Bukovsky were the focus
of international campaigns organized by human
rights organizations and cautiously embraced by
the United States and other governments.

The ranks of political prisoners declined sub-
stantially after the end of the Cold War and the
collapse of dictatorships in Latin America, Asia,
and to acertain extent Africa. Indeed, it was a
major objective of the new authoritarianism to
maintain political control without shedding blood
or putting people behind bars, actions that pro-
voked condemnation by human rights advocates,
democratic governments, and UN entities.

Recently, however, the political prisoner has
made a comeback. One notably egregious
offender is Azerbaijan. Under President Ilham
Aliyev, this country of just 9.4 million people has
amassed one of the world's largest numbers of
political prisoners per capita, with approximately
80 prisoners of conscience during 2015, accord-
ing to verified figures. Azerbaijan's repression
has grown despite the fact that Aliyev already
enjoyed near-total control of key institutions and
distinctly gentle treatment from U.S. and Euro-
pean political leaders due to Azerbaijan's role as
an alternative to Russian energy exports.

Venezuela also has a substantial number of
political prisoners—around 100 as of June 2016,
according to credible sources, including promi-

nent members of the political opposition.? Under
President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, some estimates
suggest that Egypt holds as many as 60,000 polit-
ical prisoners.’ Turkish authorities have similarly
rounded up tens of thousands of people in the
wake of the July 2016 coup attempt. A much
smaller country, Bahrain, has convicted hundreds
of people of political crimes since 2011, when the
monarchy began arresting members of the polit-
ical opposition who were demanding democratic
elections and other freedoms.’

China is in a class by itself. Since the 1989
crackdown on prodemocracy protests in Tian-
anmen Square, the Communist Party leadership
has regularly jailed political dissidents, espe-
cially those who argued publicly for democratic
political changes or made gestures toward the
formation of opposition political parties. The
most notable political prisoner is Liu Xiaobo, the
Nobel Peace Prize winner who was sentenced to
11 years in prison in 2009. However, conditions
have grown far worse under President Xi Jinping,
as a numbing procession of lawyers, journalists,
bloggers, women's advocates, minority rights
campaigners, and religious believers have been
detained, placed under house arrest, disap-
peared, or sentenced to prison.>

Public confessions: Humiliating public con-
fessions of ideological crimes were a staple of
Soviet leader Joseph Stalin's purges and Mao
Zedong’s Cultural Revolution in China. They
were also employed by Eastern European sat-
ellite regimes during the show trials of the late
1940s. A peculiarly communist technique, the
public confession was largely abandoned after
the deaths of Stalin and Mao.

Under Xi, China has revived the practice. A grow-
ing list of editors, human rights lawyers, and advo-
cates of political reform have been coerced into
making televised confessions of their “crimes.”
The Chinese authorities even intimidated a Swed-
ish citizen, legal reform activist Peter Dahlin, into
confessing that he broke Chinese law and “hurt
the feelings of the Chinese people.” Dahlin was
accused of endangering state security by funding
human rights lawyers and compiling reports on
the state of human rights in China.®

ntensified media domination: Most modern au-
thoritarian countries allowed a sufficient degree

www.freedomhouse.org

53

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019287
