PATTERSON

osed to interview a girl and bring
25 for Epstein.
riginall]
training in Chiang Mai. While I
1d special guy and told him hon-
‘ed to do. He told me I should get
1e people I was working for were
could not walk away or disobey
us punishment, including my life. |
xct me. I had confidence [in] him |
1 as my opportunity to escape and
ruly loved me and would protect
/ to Australia.
1 told him I was not coming back.
: fallen in love.” Epstein basically
| good life.” I could tell he was not
hat he was going to do to me. I
owerful friends might send some-
killed.
ward, out of concern for my safety
stayed in Australia with my hus-
om late 2002 to October 2013. To
: United States during these years,
visit my mother. And my absence
as not voluntary—I was hiding 4
of what he would do to me if I 4

‘es. 3
fter not hearing from anyone for ©
contacted by someone who identi
sunding name and claimed he wise

Firtuy Ricu

with the FBI. It seemed very odd for someone doing an offi-
cial criminal investigation to just call up on the phone like
that. I hadn’t heard Epstein’s name for years. I didn’t know
who this person was and what it was really about. I couldn't
tell what was going on.

36. This man said he was looking into Jeffrey Epstein.
The man asked if I had been involved with Epstein. My first
instinct was to say nothing because I wasn’t sure he was
really with the FBI or any authorities. I answered a few basic
questions, telling him that I knew Jeffrey Epstein and had
met him at a young age. But the conversation didn't feel right.
This man never offered to come and meet with me in person.
Instead, he asked me right off the bat about Epstein’s sexual
practices. I thought it would be strange for a true law enforce-
ment officer to behave that way, so I became increasingly
uncomfortable and suspicious about who was actually call-
ing me.

37. I told the man nothing more about Epstein. The con-
versation probably didn’t even last three minutes, but it
immediately triggered all of the fears of Epstein and his pow-
erful friends that had caused me to escape in the first place.
If the call accomplished anything, it only put me back in a
state of fear and told me that I could be found quite easily
and had nobody officially protecting me.

38. I suspected that the man who called me was working
for Epstein or one of Epstein’s powerful friends. I believed that
if this was really an agent who was investigating Epstein, he
would have known who I was and how I fit into Epstein’s sex-
ual crimes in many different places. He would have inter-
viewed me in a way that would have established his credentials

247

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022054

