meant to defend and restore: trade agreements, or trade wars, that supported American
manufacturing; immigration policies that protected American workers (and, hence,
American culture, or at least America’s identity from 1955 to 1965); and an international
isolation that would conserve American resources and choke off the ruling class’s Davos
sensibility (and also save working-class military lives). This was, in the view of almost
everyone but Donald Trump and the alt-right, a crazy bit of voodoo economic and political
nonsense. But it was, for Bannon, a revolutionary and religious idea.

For most others in the White House, it was Bannon’s pipe dream. “Steve is ... Steve,”
became the gentle term of art for tolerating him. “A lot of stuff goes on in his head,” said
the president, pursuing one of his reliable conversational themes, dismissing Bannon.

But it wasn’t Bannon versus everybody else so much as it was Bannon Trump versus
non-Bannon Trump. If Trump, in his dark, determined, and aggressive mood, could
represent Bannon and his views, he could just as easily represent nothing at all—or
represent solely his own need for instant gratification. That’s what the non-Bannon people
understood about Trump. If the boss was happy, then a normal, incremental, two-steps-
forward-one-step-back approach to politics might prevail. Even a new sort of centrism, as
inimical to Bannonism as it was possible to conceive, could emerge. Bannon’s
pronouncements about a fifty-year rule for Trumpism might then be supplanted by the rule
of Jared, Ivanka, and Goldman Sachs.

By the end of March, this was the side that was winning. Bannon’s efforts to use the
epic health care fail as evidence that the establishment was the enemy had hopelessly
backfired. Trump saw the health care failure as his own failure, but since he didn’t have
failures, it couldn’t be a failure, and would in fact be a success—if not now, soon. So
Bannon, a Cassandra on the sidelines, was the problem.

Trump rationalized his early embrace of Bannon by heaping scorn on him—and by
denying that he had ever embraced him. If there was anything wrong with his White
House, it was Steve Bannon. Maligning Bannon was Trump’s idea of fun. When it came to
Bannon, Trump rose to something like high analysis: “Steve Bannon’s problem is PR. He
doesn’t understand it. Everybody hates him. Because ... look at him. His bad PR rubs off
on other people.”

The real question, of course, was how Bannon, the fuck-the-system populist, had ever
come to think that he might get along with Donald Trump, the use-the-system-to-his-own-
advantage billionaire. For Bannon, Trump was the game he had to play. But in truth he
hardly played it—or couldn’t help undermining it. While ever proclaiming it Trump’s
victory, he would helplessly point out that when he had joined the campaign it was facing
a polling deficit that no campaign, ten weeks from election day, had ever recovered from.
Trump without Bannon, according to Bannon, was Wendell Willkie.

Bannon understood the necessity not to take what otherwise might be Trump’s own

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020014
