If you were fired from your job today, what would you do to get things under financial
control? Imagine this scenario and run through questions 1-3 above. If you quit your job to test
other options, how could you later get back on the same career track if you absolutely had to?

What are you putting off out of fear? Usually, what we most fear doing is what we most need to
do. That phone call, that conversation, whatever the action might be—it is fear of unknown
outcomes that prevents us from doing what we need to do. Define the worst case, accept it, and do
it. Pll repeat something you might consider tattooing on your forehead: What we fear doing most is
usually what we most need to do. As I have heard said, a person’s success in life can usually be
measured by the number of uncomfortable conversations he or she is willing to have. Resolve to
do one thing every day that you fear. I got into this habit by attempting to contact celebrities and
famous businesspeople for advice.

What is it costing you—financially, emotionally, and physically—to postpone action? Don’t
only evaluate the potential downside of action. It is equally important to measure the atrocious cost
of inaction. If you don’t pursue those things that excite you, where will you be in one year, five
years, and ten years? How will you feel having allowed circumstance to impose itself upon you
and having allowed ten more years of your finite life to pass doing what you know will not fulfill
you? If you telescope out 10 years and know with 100% certainty that it is a path of
disappointment and regret, and if we define risk as “the likelihood of an irreversible negative
outcome,” inaction is the greatest risk of all.

What are you waiting for? If you cannot answer this without resorting to the previously rejected
concept of good timing, the answer is simple: You’re afraid, just like the rest of the world.
Measure the cost of inaction, realize the unlikelihood and re-pairability of most missteps, and
develop the most important habit of those who excel and enjoy doing so: action.

5. www.nexussurf.com

6. This turned out to be yet another self-imposed limitation and false construct. BrainQUICKEN was
acquired by a private equity firm in 2009. The process is described on www.fourhourblog.com.

7. http://www .tpLorg/tier3 cd.cim?content item id=5307&folder_id=1545.

System Reset

>» BEING UNREASONABLE AND UNAMBIGUOUS

“Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?”
“That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,” said the Cat.

“T don’t much care where ...” said Alice.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013828
