276 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

assumes each could be correct and travels down both. Solving a problem
using a machine like this can be fast. The problem is this machine has
no greater power than a regular Turing machine. Let me show you why.

A non-deterministic machine is essentially the same as a single
Turing machine; each time there is a branch in the program you would
start running two processes. The first process works on every even tick
of the computer clock and the other on every odd tick. Now we have a
single machine running two branches at the same time. Using this trick
over and over again, a single machine can run a program exploring every
possible branch. Although it generates an enormous number of branches
and takes a huge time to run, it is still a single machine and we have an
infinity of time on our hands. Therefore, the machine is limited as before.

We are not doing well so far and we have already exhausted an
infinite number of options! Let’s try a different tack. We know true
randomness is non-computable, the sort of randomness generated by
the Lavarand we examined earlier in the book. Might this help? Truly
random processes can’t be simulated by a computer. If we throw this into
the pot might it let us compute something a Turing machine cannot?

Again, no.

This idea still only generates a machine as powerful as the non-
deterministic machine above. A non-deterministic Turing machine runs
every possible program. All a random one does is choose some of the
same paths at random. It, therefore, can’t be any more powerful. The one
difference is that it can generate non-computable numbers. However, the
only interesting characteristic of these numbers is they are truly random
and this randomness was an input. Their presence does not make the
machine any more powerful.

There are quite a few proposals for hyper-computers that are just
cleverly dressed up versions of the machines we have already met and
dismissed. For example, it has been proposed the Internet could form
a super-Turing machine. This is known as a site machine because the
processing is distributed across many sites linked together through the
Internet. It is proposed each site could act as an oracle to the others. This
is quite an elegant idea, and some proofs have been offered that show
such a machine is capable of generating non-computable functions. The
problem with this idea is that you can simply draw an imaginary line
around the whole site machine and it looks exactly like a big Turing
machine. There is no conceptual difference between such a machine
and a regular computer with subroutines. After all, that’s in Turing’s

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015966
