ancestors took their first steps out of Africa. If we are thinking about an evolved psychology for bonding
with members of our own group and fighting those outside, our ancestors would have been blind to race
as it was not yet an emergent property of our species. Language was, however, a property of our species,
and one that varied across populations. A hunter-gatherer walking the plains of South Africa would
indeed have run into people speaking either a completely different language, or the same language with a
different dialect. New languages are not easily acquired, and nor are new dialects. It takes real talent to
speak a new language or dialect without a trace of ones origins. Thus, like the stotting gazelles,
magnanimous spenders, and healthy evildoers discussed in chapter 2, the native languages and dialects we
speak are honest signals of social group membership. Honesty is supported by the costs we pay to
acquire them. Cheating is hard because there is a start-up cost associated with perfecting the natural
rhythm of a second language or novel dialect.

The babies in Kinzler’s experiments tell us something important: race and language are both
important social categories and discriminable from an early age. But language trumps race as a feature
because it is a better predictor of membership within the inner sanctum, at least early in life. Ultimately,
both language and race allow us to close off some from the inner sanctum and allow others in. Ultimately,
our allegiance to our native language and race can fuel our hatred toward those who look different and

speak in different tongues.

Closed doors
As adults, we tend to rely on rules of thumb to guide our social interactions, including who we trust and
who we distrust. We tend to trust those we know more than those we don’t know. Within the circle of
those we know, we believe those who are more like us than those who are unlike us, using fixed body
features — race, height, hair color — flexible psychological features — food preferences, sports’
interests, religious beliefs — and features that are flexibly constrained — language and intelligence.
Together, these different dimensions cause us to close the door on some and open it to others.
Language is particularly interesting. If you can’t understand someone because they don’t speak
your language or because their accent is too heavy, then the issue is not trust, but comprehension. But
what if you can understand the person perfectly well, but they speak with a foreign accent, either one
from a different country (e.g., a French speaker speaking English) or one from the same country but a

different region (e.g., a Southern accent in the northeast of the United States)?

Hauser Chapter 3. Ravages of denial 96

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012842
