4.2.12
WC: 191694

political ends of terrorism. The board has also proved that Redgrave has turned down roles such
as that of Andrei Sakharov’s wife in an HBO production because she believed the film might be
seen as “anti-Communist propaganda”.

Redgrave’s supporters threw a fundraiser for her. I prepared and distributed a leaflet that
provided the facts to those attending and urged them to ask Redgrave “to explain her hypocrisy”.
Several members of the audience were surprised to learn of her views on blacklisting Israeli
artists. Others said they knew of Redgrave’s selective condemnation of blacklisting but didn’t
care, because — as one woman put it — “anything is fair in the war against Zionism.””’

In the end, the case was settled and Redgrave persisted in her hypocrisy. I was comfortable in my
role defending her rights while exposing her wrongs.

Not everyone understands this distinction. My own mother insisted that I was “helping” Nazis
and terrorists when I supported their right to speak, even while condemning what they were
saying. Far better educated people than my mother also claimed not to understand. In a debate in
Canada on laws criminalizing Holocaust denial, I took my usual position in favor of freedom of
speech:
I regret to say this, but I think that Holocaust denial speech is not even a close question.
There is no persuasive argument that I can think of in logic, in law, in constitutionality, in
policy, or in education, which should deny [anyone] who chooses to the right to take
whatever position he wants on the Holocaust. The existence of the Holocaust, its extent,
its fault, its ramifications, its political use are fair subjects for debate. I think it is
despicable for anybody to deny the existence of the Holocaust. But I cannot sit in
judgment over the level of despicability of anybody’s exercise of freedom of speech.
Of course I agree that sticks and stones can break your bones, and words can harm you
and maim you. That’s the price we pay for living in a democracy. It’s not that speech
doesn’t matter. If speech didn’t matter, I wouldn’t devote my life to defending it. Speech
matters. Speech can hurt. That’s not why those of us who defend free speech,
particularly free speech of this kind, do it. We do it because we don’t trust government.

In response, Judge Maxwell Cohen said that anyone who holds such views “ought not to be a law
teacher.” I disagree. Professors must defend the right of those they disagree with to express
wrongheaded views, while insisting on their own right—indeed obligation—to express
disagreement with such views.

When Yasser Arafat died in 2004, I was asked by Palestinian students at Harvard to represent
them in the failed efforts to fly the Palestinian flag from a flagpole in the Harvard Yard. They
knew my negative views of their hero—I had called Arafat’s death “untimely,” because if he had
only died five years earlier, the Palestinian Authority might well have accepted the Clinton-Barak
peace offer—but they also knew my views on freedom of speech. I agreed to represent them, as
long as they understood that I would continue to criticize both Arafat and those who considered
him a martyr. They agreed and we got Harvard to allow them to fly their flag.

5! Kevin P. Convey, Actress Redgrave defends her views, but lawyer Dershowitz steals the show. Boston Herald.
Dershowitz: Redgrave Views on Censorship Hypocritical.

145

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017232
