morally worthy or sacred. It shows how easily we can flip our values in the face of tempting alternatives.
The scientific evidence presented in this section shows that our decisions to treat others according
to different moral principles or norms is powerfully affected by our sense of what counts as another
human being. What counts includes at least two important dimensions, one focused on agency and the
other on experience. These dimensions determine whether we blame or praise someone, punish or
rehabilitate them, and ultimately, include or exclude them from the inner circles of moral agents or moral
patients. Those who fall outside these two inner circles are morally worthless. Those who are morally
worthless can be destroyed or banished. Some things are justifiably excluded and fit with our general
sense of reality — rocks, dirt, cardboard boxes, plastic balls, and pieces of glass. Other things are
excluded because they don’t fit with our values of what reality should be. This is where distortion and
denial enter the process. This is where we create walls around members of one group in order to keep
others out. This is where we express partiality instead of the impartiality that Lady Justice champions
with her two balanced scales and blind fold-covered eyes. This is where we exclude others from our inner
sanctum in order to justify great harms. How is the inner sanctum set up and put into action over a

lifetime, sometimes for legitimate causes and sometimes for illegitimate and unconscionable causes?

Populating the inner sanctum

Elie Wiesel, the Nobel Peace Laureate and Holocaust survivor, remarked that “anti-Semitism is the most
ancient form of prejudice.” This claim may well be true of human written history, but is most definitely
false if one considers the fact that all social animals and human societies, including the hunter-gatherer
groups that are descendants of people that predated the Jews, hate some individuals and love others.
Prejudice, though often based on deep seated ideological biases and stereotypes that humans invent, is, at
root, a form of partiality. Every social animal, either extinct or alive today, expresses partiality. This is a
highly adaptive and ancient psychology, promoting the care of young, investment in mates, and escape
strategies against enemies. Humans are no different, except for the role that our promiscuous brains play
in fueling partiality with ideology and symbolism. Sometimes when we express our partiality it is for the
noble cause of caring for our children and for defending ideological beliefs surrounding humanitarian
causes, including defense of basic human rights. Sometimes when we express our partiality, it is for the
ignoble cause of destroying others. How does human partiality begin? Do babies express preferences for
certain social categories? How does their experience sculpt new categories? How is the inner sanctum

populated, enabling us to preferentially help those within and harm those outside?

Hauser Chapter 3. Ravages of denial 94

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012840
