ARTICLE: Treating Crime Victims Fairly: Integrating Victims into the Federal Rules o

Criminal Procedure

2007

Reporter
2007 Utah L. Rev. 861 *

Length: 59852 words

Author: Paul G. Cassell*

* Professor of Law, S.J. Quinney College of Law of the University of Utah, Judge, U.S. District Court for the District of Utah,
2002-07. Thanks to Sara Sun Beale, Doug Beloof, Doug Berman, Russell Butler, Matt Cannon, Meg Garvin, Nancy King, Erik
Luna, Peter McCabe, Benjamin McMurray, Ross McPhail, Dan Medwed, Wendy Murphy, Daphne Oberg, Jim Oleson, Judge
James Orenstein, Alice Ristroph, Greg Skordas, Felise Thorpe Moll, Steve Twist, Stewart Young, and especially my wife
Trish.

Text

[*863]
I. Introduction

Federal courts should treat crime victims fairly in the criminal process. In a nod to that goal, the Advisory Committee on the
Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure (Advisory Committee) has circulated for public comment proposed amendments to the
Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure (the Rules) regarding crime victims’ rights. These amendments attempt to implement the
recently-enacted Crime Victims' Rights Act (CVRA), | which guarantees crime victims a series of rights, including the right to
be treated fairly. Unfortunately, the proposed amendments are mere tentative, half measures that do not begin to fully protect
crime victims.

This Article contends that the Advisory Committee should broaden its vision of the proper role for crime victims and
recommend far more expansive victim protections. In the CVRA, Congress articulated specific rights for crime victims, such as
the right to be notified of court hearings, to attend those hearings, and to speak at appropriate points in the process. * But along
with these specific rights came the sweeping requirement that crime victims be treated with fairness and with respect for the
victim's dignity and privacy. * This congressional command must not be ignored. In addition, entirely apart from any
congressional dictate, crime victims deserve fair treatment in the federal system. Acting for the federal judiciary, the Advisory
Committee should make certain that the Rules fully reflect victims’ interests rather than allow the initiative for protecting
victims to pass to other branches of government.

This Article proceeds in five parts. Following this Introduction, Part II reviews events leading to the recently circulated
amendments. The amendments were prompted by the CVRA - an act passed by Congress in 2004 to protect victims' rights
through the federal criminal process. To comply with the CVRA, the federal criminal rules had to be amended in many places,

' Pub. L. No. 108-405, § 102(a), 178 Stat. 2260, 2261-62 (codified as amended at /8 U.S.C. § 3771 (Supp. 2006)).

2 18 U.S.C. § 3771 (a)(2)-(4).
3 Id. § 3771 (a)(8).

DAVID SCHOEN

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017636
