BREAKING DOWN DEMOCRACY: Goals, Strategies, and Methods of Modern Authoritarians

Furthermore, because the population now has greater
access to foreign sources of news and entertain-
ment, regimes must grapple with the complex task of
monopolizing the political discourse in ways that are
far more convincing and compelling than the robotic
pronouncements that played such a crucial part in
communism's loss of credibility.

As is the case with so much of modern authoritarian
practice, Russia has taken the lead in developing strat-
egies and methods of media domination. The system
built under Vladimir Putin is defined by the following
characteristics:

1. Control over the commanding heights of the
media: Among Putin's first goals as president
was securing domination of the most influential
media—the national television stations. They
had been controlled by various oligarchs, who
used the outlets to promote their personal and
political interests. While the resulting journalism
was hardly objective and independent, Russian
television and Russian media generally were no-
table for their liveliness and diversity during the
presidency of Boris Yeltsin. All did not sing out
of the same hymnal, and most influential outlets
reflected a variety of opinions about government
policies, including the Kremlin's conduct of the
war in Chechnya.

Putin moved quickly to change these conditions.
He reorganized and exerted tighter political con-
trol over state-owned television stations, brought
others under indirect state control, and ensured
that most of the remainder fell into the hands

of loyal businessmen. Likewise, a number of the
countn/’s leading newspapers and journals were
bought by cronies of the leadership. The era of
media diversity came to an abrupt end.’

2. Distortion of coverage on sensitive topics: Un-
like in communist times, the media do provide
independent coverage of topics that the Kremlin
considers less politically relevant. However,
some normally apolitical topics can take ona
highly political meaning. For example, coverage
of the penalties meted out to Russian Olympic
athletes for systematic doping reflected the
leadership's position that the scandal was a
product of American machinations.’

3. Shrinking gap between offline and online me-
dia: For much of Putin's tenure, the internet

remained lightly regulated in comparison with
the Kremlin's tight control over television and
other mass media. However, Freedom House
has noted growing restrictions over the past
several years, with a series of new laws, prosecu-
tions, and ownership changes that have reduced
the Russian internet's freedom and diversity in
practice.’

. Asmall stable of independent outlets: A token

number of media outlets are allowed to remain
independent at the sufferance of the Kremlin.
These include the newspaper Novaya Gazeta,
the indirectly state-owned radio station Ekho
Moskvy, and a handful of internet-based news
services, some of which are forced to operate
from neighboring countries. Coerced owner-
ship changes and other forms of pressure have
gradually reduced the already tiny independent
media sector in recent years. And the remaining
independent outlets have little reach, small audi-
ences, and at best modest impact on domestic
politics.

. The ‘weaponization’ of information: While Putin

has used the press as a propaganda instrument
throughout his political career, it was after his
third term as president began in 2012 that the
media were given a special, central role in de-
monizing Putin's critics, preparing the Russian
people for armed conflict in Ukraine and else-
where, depicting Europe as morally corrupt, and
attributing Russia's problems and setbacks to
the United States.* With the invasion of Ukraine
in 2014, the world awakened to the return of
propaganda as an instrument of warfare. This is
not just normal political spin or public diploma-
cy, but sheer, raw propaganda that celiberately
crosses the line between interpretation of facts
and outright mendacity. The aim is both to stir
up belligerence at home and to isolate, confuse,
and demoralize the enemy.°

. The centralization of information policy: The

creation in 2013 of Rossiya Segodnya, an umbrel-
la organization for Moscow's foreign news ser-
vices, signaled the leadership's intention to use
information in a more strategic way to advance
the country’s international objectives. Dmitry
Kiselyov, a controversial television presenter,
was named to head the new entity.® He actually
embraces his identity as the Kremlin's chief
propagandist, arguing that “Western” concepts

16

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019250
