Saturday night black tie dinners, where he’s meeting the over-the-top
families of Europe.

“I didn’t take it seriously,” Epstein recounts. “I was not caught up in
it. | wasn’t trying to make a billion dollars. There was no ultimate goal. It
was just fun to meet smart people, interesting people. But no long-range
plans. Often no short-term plans either. I would head to Kennedy and, on the
theory that most important events in one’s life are serendipitous, I wouldn’t
decide where I was going until I got there.”

At the same time, he is developing a perception, or, at least a market
differentiation: the hyper wealthy had different problems than the very
wealthy. Dealing with a billion dollars was different from dealing with $100
million:

“Tf you had a billion dollars I would think the last thing you should be
worried about was money, in truth money was what you most worried about.
How to make more of it, how to give away more of it, how to protect you
children from it, how to hide it from your wife or husband, how to minimize
your taxes on it. The traditional wealth service structure, an accountant, and
investment advisor, a personal lawyer, and an idiot brother-in-law, became
hopelessly outdated as amounts exponentially increased.

“You can’t spend a billion dollars, you can just reallocate it to a
different investment class. And you can’t give away a billion dollars without
a vast staff, in effect going into the business of giving away money, yet
another business you are likely to know little about.”

At just about this point in the narrative, the questions or the
incredulity begins in social circles and eventually in the media. He begins to
acquire the major symbols of riches but does this without position, public
holdings, or obvious paper trails. How can a person have enough money to
merit increasing attention, but no clear way of having gotten it? Epstein gets
stuck in that tautology. He may be rich, but he is without institutional
protection or bona fides. He is a questionable substrata of wealth. He’s a
freelancer.

That’s the rub: he doesn’t work for anyone. Without institutional
credentials he’s... well, nobody knows what.

For a period, one part of his activities he says is recovering monies for
countries looted by exiled dictators or military strongmen. If early in his
career he might seem like a sort of George Peppard (there’s a physical
resemblance) in Breakfast at Tiffany’s, a charming hustler, later he’s George
Peppard in Banacek, a smart and astute operator.

Then, in his telling, he’s representing a series of vastly wealthy people
and families. He’s not just doing their bidding or their investing, he’s

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022757
