Why is now a more important time than ever for a WE Talks?

| believe the women movement to be one of the most fascinating phenomena of
our times. The woman’s role has changed so much in modern society with more
women taking leadership positions and starting their own companies. The modern
woman is wearing more hats than ever. In the 80-s, a successful woman was
expected to pursue an education and then to get married and raise children. Right
now, women are expected to have successful careers, be equal financial
contributors to the family, and yet maintain their traditional “feminine” roles,
including taking care of the home, cooking, and raising kids.

Yet women with full-time jobs still earn only about 77 percent of their male
counterparts’ earnings. About four-in-ten employed women say they have
experienced some form of gender discrimination at work. There is also a serious
gender gap in startup rates of men and women, where there are about seven
women entrepreneurs for every ten men entrepreneurs. The statistics is pretty
gloomy in both corporate and startup world. The share of female Fortune 500
CEOs has dropped by 25% in 2018 to 5%. Female founders receive only 2% percent
of the venture capital. Nevertheless, female-founded startups generate more
revenue and do it with less funding.

| think networking a paramount to business and personal success. For ages, men
had men only clubs, including cigar clubs, university clubs, golf clubs etc. Even
nowadays, male investors and intrapreneurs would go out for drinks and talk about
business. Women are starting to do it, but just don’t do it enough. Curated
networking, right introductions, and a solid community would help narrow the
gender gap.

You were a model, then ran a nonprofit, and now you've started WE Talks.
Where did you learn to have the courage to put yourself out there and take
risks again and again?

| think risk taking is in my DNA. | grew up playing tennis competing on a Junior
Circuit and simply couldn’t envision a predictable and “normal” life in Moscow. |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022268
