The news of the attorney general’s recusal exploded like an IED in the White House.
Sessions was Trump’s protection against an overly aggressive Russian investigation. The
president just could not grasp the logic here. He railed to friends: Why would Sessions not
want to protect him? What would Sessions gain? Did he think this stuff was real? Sessions
needed to do his job!

In fact, Trump already had good reason to worry about the DOJ. The president had a
private source, one of his frequent callers, who, he believed, was keeping him abreast of
what was going on in the Justice Department—and, the president noted, doing a much
better job of it than Sessions himself.

The Trump administration, as a consequence of the Russia story, was involved in a
high-stakes bureaucratic push-pull, with the president going outside government to find
out what was happening in his own government. The source, a longtime friend with his
own DOJ sources—many of the president’s rich and powerful friends had their own
reasons to keep close tabs on what was happening at the Justice Department—fed the
president a bleak picture of a Justice Department and an FBI run amok in its efforts to get
him. “Treason” was a word that was being used, the president was told.

“The DOJ,” the president’s source told him, “was filled with women who hated him.”
It was an army of lawyers and investigators taking instructions from the former
administration. “They want to make Watergate look like Pissgate,” the president was told.
This comparison confused Trump; he thought his friend was making a reference to the
Steele dossier and its tale of the golden showers.

After the attorney general’s recusal, the president, whose instinctive reaction to every
problem was to fire someone, right away, thought he should just get rid of Sessions. At the
same time, there was little doubt in his mind about what was happening here. He knew
where this Russia stuff was coming from, and if these Obama people thought they were
going to get away with it they had another think coming. He would expose them all!

OOK Ok

One of Jared Kushner’s many new patrons was Tony Blair, the former —British prime
minister, whom Kushner had gotten to know when, on the banks of the River Jordan in
2010, they both attended the baptism of Grace and Chloe Murdoch, the young daughters
of Rupert Murdoch and his then wife, Wendi. Jared and Ivanka had also lived in the same
Trump building on Park Avenue where the Murdochs lived (for the Murdochs it was a
temporary rental apartment while their grand triplex on Fifth Avenue was —renovated, but
the renovation had lasted for four years), and during that period Ivanka Trump had
become one of Wendi Murdoch’s closest friends. Blair, godfather to Grace, would later be
accused by Murdoch of having an affair with his wife, and of being the cause of their
breakup (something Blair has categorically denied). In the divorce, Wendi got the Trumps.

But once in the White House, the president’s daughter and son-in-law became the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020000
