154 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

Three co-workers did admit to the FBI, as noted earlier, that they
might have inadvertently given Snowden their passwords, but these
three slips would not account for Snowden’s breach of all the other
compartments. Of course, there might have also been less forthcom-
ing co-workers who hid their slips in divulging their passwords to
Snowden.

This raises the more sinister possibility that the accomplice
was not an amateur co-worker but a spy who was already in place
when Snowden arrived. Such a penetration agent could have been
recruited by an adversary intelligence service before Snowden came
on the scene. After Snowden expressed a desire to expose the NSA’s
domestic surveillance, it could then have used him as an “umbrella”
to hide its own activities. Finding such a means to protect a source
while exploiting his or her information is not uncommon in espio-
nage operations, and because Snowden was willing to flee America
and go public, he could serve as a near-perfect umbrella. “Snowden
may have carried out of the NSA many more documents than he
knew about,” Tyler Drumheller, the former CIA station chief, said. It

® could also account for the disparity between the claims of Snowden ©
and the NSA damage assessment as to the number of documents
that were compromised.

As far-fetched as this scenario may seem, less than three years
before the Snowden breach the NSA had received a warning from
a CIA mole (to be discussed in greater detail later) that the Russian
intelligence service might have recruited a KGB mole at the Fort
Meade headquarters of the NSA. No mole was found in 2010, and
if one existed, it could not have been Snowden, who was working
for the NSA in Japan in 2010. Such a putative mole could conceiv-
ably have acquired enough information to later facilitate Snowden’s
operation.

As Snowden acknowledges, he was not a happy worker at the
NSA. He complained in his posts over the Internet between 2010
and 2013 about superiors and what he considered NSA abuses to
co-workers. If someone assumed the guise of a reluctant whistle-
blower, he would have little difficulty in approaching Snowden.
Snowden might not even know his true affiliation beyond that he

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 154 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019642
