of both factors (human and physical capital) drives net output down. Comparison
between net income and gross realized income can mislead. Piketty is right about

the data, but wrong about its interpretation.

Depreciation Theory

This is the explanation I promised when | said that depreciation is essentially like
amortization. Accounting tends to practice straight-line depreciation over standard
depreciation periods. A well-known refinement, allowed but not much practiced in
business, is called current cost accounting. The idea is to correct distortions due to
past inflation. The problem is that books reflect long-term assets and their
depreciation at original cost at date of booking. Current cost accounting adjusts both
to the equivalent in current dollars. It shows both net worth and depreciation as
higher if prices inflated since booking, or lower if prices deflated. That seems to

make sense.

A further adjustment called replacement cost accounting does the same, but also
replaces linear depreciation with a curve believed more realistic. National accounts
adopt this method. It is sound in principle. But they shape the curve in the wrong
direction. They rely on records of actual sales of plant to model depreciation as

steep initially and slower later. I suggest that this record is misleading.

My starting point is that value of any capital is discounted cash flow. To keep things
simple at first, suppose that cash flow in constant dollars is expected to hold steady

for fifty years before asset life ends. Also suppose a constant time discount rate.

Present value at the outset is fifty years of discounted cash flow. At the beginning of
the second year, it is 49 years present value of the same cash flow at the same

discount rate. All that has been lost is present value of the 50 and most-discounted
year. At the start of the third year, capital has dropped again by present value of the

49th and second-most discounted year. So it continues until the end as the discount

Chapter 2: Fast Forward 1/06/16 20

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010960
