Bannonites would, with lowered voices and certain pity, ask each other how he seemed
and how he was holding up; invariably they would agree about how bad he looked, the
strain etching ever deeper into his already ruined face. David Bossie thought Bannon
“looked like he would die.”

“T now understand what it is like to be in the court of the Tudors,” reflected Bannon.
On the campaign trail, he recalled, Newt Gingrich “would come with all these dumb ideas.
When we won he was my new best friend. Every day a hundred ideas. When”—by spring
in the White House—“T got cold, when I went through my Valley of Death, I saw him one
day in the lobby and he looks down, avoiding my eyes with a kind of mumbled ‘Hey,
Steve.’ And I say, ‘What are you doing here, let’s get you inside,’ and he says, “No, no,
I’m fine, I’m waiting for Dina Powell.’”

Having attained the unimaginable—bringing a fierce alt-right, anti-liberal
ethnopopulism into a central place in the White House—Bannon found himself face to
face with the untenable: undermined by and having to answer to rich, entitled Democrats.

7 OK Ok

The paradox of the Trump presidency was that it was both the most ideologically driven
and the least. It represented a deeply structural assault on liberal values—Bannon’s
deconstruction of the administrative state meant to take with it media, academic, and not-
for-profit institutions. But from the start it also was apparent that the Trump administration
could just as easily turn into a country club Republican or a Wall Street Democrat regime.
Or just a constant effort to keep Donald Trump happy. Trump had his collection of pet-
peeve issues, test-marketed in various media rollouts and megarallies, but none seemed so
significant as his greater goal of personally coming out ahead of the game.

As the drumbeat for Bannon’s removal grew, the Mercers stepped in to protect their
investment in radical government overthrow and the future of Steve Bannon.

In an age when all successful political candidates are surrounded by, if not at the beck
and call of, difficult, rich people pushing the bounds of their own power—and the richer
they were, the more difficult they might be—Bob and Rebekah Mercer were quite onto
themselves. If Trump’s ascent was unlikely, the Mercers’ was all the more so.

Even the difficult rich—the Koch brothers and Sheldon Adelson on the right, David
Geffen and George Soros on the left—are leavened and restrained by the fact that money
exists In a competitive market. Obnoxiousness has its limits. The world of the rich is, in its
fashion, self-regulating. Social climbing has rules.

But among the difficult and entitled rich, the Mercers cut a path through disbelief and
incredulity. Unlike other people contributing vast sums to political candidates, they were
willing not to win—ever. Their bubble was their bubble.

So when they did win, by the fluke alignment of the stars for Donald Trump, they were

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020016
