by armies, by naval and air attacks. Now it is the ownership and use of connection,
of networks and machine intelligence that will deliver real, perhaps even final,
leverage.

If the strategic aim of Europe’s leaders after Napoleon’s violent emergence and
defeat was to restore a balance of power, if America’s grand strategic purpose after
World War Two was the containment of the USSR and her totalizing ideologies,
nations now must try for positions of security and for command during the uneasy
transition ahead. The wellbeing of the whole system becomes a concern; entities,
protocols and ideas that threaten the system’s health are the most urgent dangers,
even as they represent seats of potentially historic power. We should ask: How is it
that international cooperation occurs in an age of connection? Will it happen
through slow, incremental movement? In sudden bursts? In fact, the routes to
cooperation are rarely easy in any age. They involve overcoming old bureaucratic
ideas, deeply held instincts of national interest, broken and humid and sometimes
murderous psychological needs - all while accepting a new picture of power - and
fresh risks and responsibilities. Our problem now, even in the face of these snapping
traps, is to define a clear vision of our future security - and then to make a path to
get there. No route exists today. “Originally, there were no roads in the world,” the
Chinese writer Lu Xun observed in a famous story at the start of the last century. “It
is only by walking on them that paths are made.”’® Ours is an age of first steps.

The social scientists John Padgett and Walter Powell, after considering examples of
epochal, collapsing change in political and biological systems of all sorts -
Renaissance finance markets, coral reefs, innovation clusters, and others - summed
up their conclusions in a little koan-like package of logic: “In the short run, actors
create relations. In the long run, relations create actors.” 7? The nouns we worry
about now, and the ones we hope for, take their meaning and their risk and energy
from relations. Your genome connected is different and more hopeful than it is
alone, unplugged, slipping into cancer. This idea that relations create actors is a
powerful basis for a new, enduring - even decent - grand strategy for an age of
revolutionary connection. It should also offer a check against some of our horrible
miscalculations: America invaded Iraq, for instance, intending to replace one state
with another. Instead we replaced a state with a network - and not one that we
controlled. That web still resists our old habits of control. Relations of family and
faith and clan link and activate murderous, relentless actors. The super power had
all the nouns: Tanks, planes, soldiers, money. But we did not have the networks. We
could not create relations. No move of ours held for long. We were like the team
JIEEDO - trying to defeat the wrong thing entirely.

78 “Originally, there were no roads”: Lu Xun, “My Old Home” in Diary of a Madman
and Other Stories Trans. William A. Lyell (Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press,
1990.) 89-100, though the translation of the line here is my own.

79 “In the short run”: John F. Padgett and Walter W. Powell, ”The Problem of
Emergence” in The Emergence of Organizations and Markets, Princeton University
Press, 2012

56

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018288
