Fund will seek to fund companies much later into commercialization to the point of
sustainable profitability. These investments will be into private or small capitalization
public companies in situations where the Fund Managers believe that the key risk
inflection and the period of greatest value creation will be around regulatory approval
and demonstration of commercial attractiveness of the product. These investments will
focus on products where the level of clinical and regulatory risk is relatively low, and
where commercial penetration can be driven by smaller, highly targeted sales and
marketing activities. Biopharmaceutical companies at this stage have historically been
attractive acquisition targets, and have consistently demonstrated that they can access
public markets through IPOs in a broad range of market conditions. Examples of this
type of later stage investment in the New Leaf portfolio include Acadia Pharmaceuticals
(NLV-IIL NASDAQ: ACAD, exited at 2.5x), Phase III, focused on psychosis associated
with neurodegenerative diseases, Durata Therapeutics (NLV-II, private initially, now
public on NASDAQ: DRTX), Phase III, focused on a late stage antibiotic development
program spun out of Pfizer, and InterCept Pharmaceuticals (NLV-II, NASDAQ: ICPT,
exited at 3.2x), Phase III, focused on an orphan indication in liver disease.

e Investments in public companies at any stage, whose primary assets are product
programs or product platforms. Most of these investments will be focused on small
capitalization companies at the clinical or early commercialization stage. New Leaf’s
focus on investment opportunities in small capitalization public biotech companies
leverage the broad investment capabilities within the firm and benefit from the focused
efforts of a small team of investment professionals dedicated exclusively to public
market activities. As a result of this integrated approach, investments in public
companies often target companies the Fund Managers have tracked over a number of
years, some from the time when they were private companies. The dedicated public
market team proactively tracks and screens the aggregate universe of biotech
companies, with the goal of identifying compelling risk/reward investment
opportunities. The primary focus of the screening efforts is to identify high-quality
companies with attractive valuations that require financing to fund the company
through key development milestones. The Fund will generally look to source or
augment transformative, structured transactions in public companies, where a New Leaf
partner will have the opportunity to join the board of directors. An example of an
investment that resulted from New Leaf’s focus on public market opportunities includes
MEI Pharma (NLV-II, NASDAQ: MEIP), an investment the Fund Managers made to
recapitalize the company after it had acquired a lead asset, Pracinostat, and needed
capital to advance the program through clinical development. Pracinostat was an asset
that was well known to New Leaf, as members of the team had followed it closely for
several years while it was owned by a private company (S*Bio), and had made attempts
to acquire and spin out the asset in the past. In addition to sourcing opportunities, the
public market team assists the broader biopharmaceutical investment efforts by
managing the sale and exit of New Leaf’s larger positions in public securities, and by
providing real-time insight into evolving market sentiment to the biotechnology and
broader healthcare technology sectors that helps guide decisions around new
investments and exit decisions.

For a complete list of investments made by the Fund Managers in healthcare technology
companies see Appendices 1 and 4.

33 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024044
