120 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

most famous case was a Russian journalist known as ‘S. He habitually
memorized things using association with places. In antiquity this was
taught as ‘the method of loci. The unusual thing was his inability to turn
the effect off, and he found it as much a curse as a blessing. He was unable
to forget useless information and found it hard to interpret complex
images, tending to see areas of color and shade rather than objects such as
trees, houses and fields.

Very recently some people have come forward, six in America and
one in the UK, who appear to have genuine photographic memories It is
well worth watching the TV documentary The Boy Who Can't Forget to
gain a sense of what this is like. These people appear to lack the ability to
forget, and this turns our understanding of memory on its head. It seems
memory might work the opposite way we thought. We had previously
thought we only remember what we pay attention to, but perhaps we must
actively forget, and this ability is missing in these subjects. Scientists are
studying these people to see if they can understand more about memory.

The Aging Brain

We can explode a myth and encourage older readers simultaneously.
Memory does not deteriorate with age, or at least not until we are very
old. Most studies looking at memory deterioration focus on the very
old and compare them with the very young. Even then, the differences
are small. When people are asked to attempt memory problems there
is a mild drop off with age but the results are quite similar. The most
likely reason older people don’t remember so well is they don’t believe
they can. Perhaps they don’t have as much incentive to remember new
information. Why learn someone’s name if you're unlikely to meet them
again? Since IQ actually increases with age, don't believe people when
they say you are going downhill from the age of 40. You are not!

Computer Brains

Computers are really quite simple compared with all the evolved
baggage we humans carry around. When a computer is presented with
instructions, for example, for a program like Excel and a file such as my
expenses, it will load everything into memory and ‘run it. The process of
running a program is simple. Each instruction is a number. The computer
reads the number, looks it up in a table, finds a corresponding number,
and writes that down. Essentially that’s all there is to it. From a simple
mechanism like this, we get the enormous complexity of a modern

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015810
