a

KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP
8. ALL IDENTIFIED VICTIMS BE PUT IN SAME POSITION AS IF EPSTEIN
HAD BEEN TRIED.

Mr. Sloman’s Leiter:

e “The Agreement provides for a method of compensation for the victims such that they
would be placed in the same position as if Epstein had been convicted of one of the
enumerated offenses set forth in Title 18, United States Code Section, 2255.”

Id.
The Truth:

¢ Mr. Sloman continues to mischaracterize the highly irregular provisions of the Deferred
Prosecution Agreement. The SDFL did not merely attempt to preserve the compensation
rights of those it identified as victims; it attempted to create compensation rights for those
it identified, without imposing on them the burden of proving that they were in fact
victims under § 2255.

o In the Deferred Prosecution Agreement, the SDFL required Mr. Epstein to waive
the right to contest lability under 18 U.S.C. § 2255 as to a list of individuals that
the SDFL would not disclose to Mr. Epstein until after he was sentenced and to
pay for an attorney to secure compensation under § 2255 for those undisclosed
individuals, or if they decided to sue Mr. Epstein.

oO § 2255 ordinarily provides individuals with a right to recover minimum guaranteed
damages of $150,000, without having to prove actual damages, only if: (1) they
were victims of an enumerated federal offense, including offenses under 18 U.S.C.
§§ 2422 and 2423, (2) they were minors at the time of the offense, and most
importantly (3) they were personally injured as a result of the offense.

o The defense has confirmed examples of women who testified that they were not
victims of Mr. Epstein and suffered no personal injury. These women were,
nevertheless, on the list of “victims” identified by the government. . In fact, when
confronted with the testimony of a women who denied both being a victim and
incurring personal injury, Ms. Villafana actually acknowledged such testimony.
To justify inclusion of that woman on the government’s list, however, Ms.
Villafana then challenged her own witness’s credibility.

e For this reason, it is false to state that these “identified” individuals are in the same
position that they would have been had Epstein been convicted at trial. Had there been a
trial, Mr. Epstein would have had a right to confront these individuals through cross-
examination. Any individual that did not establish that she was a minor victim of conduct
that satisfied each element of an enumerated statute under § 2255,or that she suffered
personal injury, would not qualify for any treatment under § 2255. However, under the
Deferred Prosecution Agreement, as an “identified individual” on the government’s list,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012178
