ask . either wechsler or haperin to tell you what brh is, or how the tra works. .. ? as bronstein to tell you why
the proposed phaidon transaction DOES not work. . as them to give you a plan for the plane. ? ask them to
show you the cash mgmt for over 100 million dollars. . ask them to show you the IT system progress after one
year. . the approval process for payables. . the cash flow projections? assumptions? ask for a comparative
review of investments. ask haperin to describle to you in any detail BRH , the major asset of his two biggest
clients. tax basis, disposiotion in the estate. . etc. ask brad to show you the liquidation of the inteveing art space
cos? .

---------- Forwarded message ----------

From: jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com>

Date: Tue, Apr 14, 2015 at 5:53 PM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella

saved you 500k at the last minute, . brad has had the same chart since march 16th, its his job to review NOT
MINE .appears he is one of those living in the dark letwe. I found 8 million dollars today, missed
deductions. . not yet in the numbers, .?

w--------- Forwarded message ----------

From: jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com>

Date: Wed, Apr 15, 2015 at 8:59 AM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella|

1 did the paul weiss bill get paid ??? 2. Talk to me before signing anything today important

10m paid today to gratitude america, a 501 c 3, willl make last year complete. 20 million paid today ftc . 10
million july 15 5 million sept 30. ,5 millionjan 1 forall of 16. tax savings paid at 37 percent . of net.
savings. 50 million credit. net. so 150 million free. 600 savings 225 million owed. - 50 credit, 175

owed. 600 savings 225 million owed. - 50 credit, 175 owed.

Date: Tue, Jan 5, 2016 at 6:36 PM

Subject: Fwd: leon DO NOT SEND, hand deliver.
To: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com>
Transaction complete !

When we had our meeting in your home in Bedford. You asked me for my help. I told you multiple times
that i thought it was a very bad idea, in that I preferred to have no financial interactions. I dont have many
friends and didnt want money to interefer with our unique relationship. For five years you had the kind but
goofy Eileen Alexandersson managing your accounting , legal, investments. reporting, trusts etc. When I told
you in no uncertain terms that I firmly believed she was incompetent you admonished me for  speaking out of
both sides of my mouth. With regard Brad Wechsler , there is no  both sides. . I have
consistantly maintained since day one that he was highly unsuited for the job. When you initially asked me to
help convince him to take the role , promising him a postion to manage mirage investments I sent you a note
saying instead you should pay up and get first class people. I have reiterated the same message for over a year
now. . Brad , not me was tasked with hiring new people and as you wanted him to take ownership of the
staff}he conducted many interviews. you may recall that as late as may, you told him in my presence that he had
had six months and had not hired anyone. since then I have rectified errors in sales tax, use tax, income
tax, fbar reporting, 1031 reporting, 8 million of deductions. ,( last nov ) 11 million found in dormant accounts
and 4 million in the drawer. errors in cash flow both personal and Phaidon. Oversight on new grats first at 22
and then at 19 that were done without my consulatation were resolved only as aresult of my intervention. . 600
million in after tax savings was just accomplished.

With Brad out of the office and unable to run his usual interference , the level of his total and
utter incompetence was brought clearly , front and center. He may be a step up from Eileen, but, ifheis,
then itis certainly not by much, A major difference is that Eileen knew she was over her head. Brad struts his
stupiditly whenever he gets a chance.
A critical example. - Though you and I have spent many many hours discussing the importance of care

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023307
