54026

Federal Register/Vol. 76, No. 168/Tuesday, August 30, 2011/Rules and Regulations

Another comment argues that the
illegal union conduct portion of the
notice fails to fully inform employees of
their rights as union members.1°9 In
contrast, another comment states a
different position—that the list of illegal
union conduct ‘ostensibly relates only
to restraint or coercion by a union in a
unionized environment.’ 11° The
comment further states that the Board
should have included examples of
“union restraint or coercion in an
organizing setting” but gives no specific
examples.

ALFA suggests three changes to the
unlawful union activity section. First,
rather than say that the union may not
“threaten you that you will lose your
job,” a more comprehensive statement
would be “threaten, harass, or coerce
you in order to gain your support for the
union.’ The Board agrees, except as
regards “‘harass,” which is sometimes
used to characterize almost any sort of
union solicitation. Accordingly, the
statement will be modified to read
“threaten or coerce you in order to gain
your support for the union.”’ Second,
the comment suggests changing “‘cause
or attempt to cause an employer to
discriminate against you” to
“discriminate or attempt to discriminate
against you because you don’t support
a union.” The Board disagrees, because
the suggested change would shift the
focus of the provision away from the
sort of conduct contemplated in the
tule. See NLRA Section 8(b)(2), 29
U.S.C. 158(b)(2). Third, the comment
suggests changing “‘take other adverse
action against you based on whether
you have joined or support the union”
to “take adverse action against you
because you have not joined or do not
support the union.’ The Board agrees
and will modify this provision of the
notice accordingly.

Baker & McKenzie urges that a variety
of other examples of unlawful union
conduct be added to the notice,
including requiring nonmembers to pay
a fee to receive contract benefits,
disciplining members for engaging in
activity adverse to a union-represented
grievant, disciplining members for
refusing to engage in unprotected
activity, engaging in careless grievance
handling, failing to notify employees of
their Beck rights, requiring employees to
agree to dues checkoff instead of direct
payment, discriminatorily applying
hiring hall rules, and conditioning
continued employment on the payment
of a fine or dues in “‘right-to-work’”’
states.

109 See comment of National Association of
Manufacturers.
110 See comment of ALFA.

As with the examples of unlawful
employer activity, the Board concludes
that the provisions concerning unlawful
union activity, as proposed, are accurate
and informative, and, as with the notice
as a whole, strike an appropriate
balance between being simultaneously
instructive and succinct. Moreover, the
Board finds it unnecessary to include
additional examples of unlawful
conduct so that the lists of employer
and union activity are the same length
because the notice describes the central
forms of unlawful conduct engaged in
by each type of entity. Still less is it
necessary to add a host of additional
examples of unlawful union conduct,
with the result that the list of such
conduct would be much longer than the
list of unlawful employer conduct. In
the Board’s view, the list of unlawful
union conduct in the proposed notice
fairly informs employees of the types of
conduct that a union is prohibited from
engaging in without providing
unnecessary or confusing examples.
Employees may contact the NLRB if
they believe a union has violated the
NLRA.

e. Collective-Bargaining Provision

The collective-bargaining provision of
the NPRM states that “if you and your
co-workers select a union to act as your
collective bargaining representatives,
your employer and the union are
required to bargain in good faith and in
a genuine effort to reach a written,
binding agreement setting your terms
and conditions of employment. The
union is required to fairly represent you
in bargaining and enforcing the
agreement.” 75 FR 80419.

The Board received only a few
comments on this provision of the
notice. Notably, COLLE requests the
inclusion of a limitation on the
provision that employees have the right
to bargain collectively, in order to
clarify that the employer’s obligation is
only to bargain in good faith and not
necessarily to reach an agreement. A
second comment suggests that the
notice inform employees that they have
the right to “sue a union for unfairly
representing the employee in
bargaining, contract administration, or a
discrimination matter.”

The Board has decided that no
changes are necessary to the duty to
bargain paragraph. The Board is
satisfied that the proposed collective-
bargaining provision provides sufficient
guidance to employees about the
exercise of these rights while still
staying within the constraints set by a
necessarily brief employee notice. As to
the first comment, the notice states that
an employer and union have a duty to

“bargain in good faith and in a genuine
effort to reach a written, binding
agreement.” As discussed above, by
referring to a “genuine effort’ to reach
agreement, the notice necessarily
implies that the parties are not obliged
to actually reach one. The duty to
bargain in good faith has many
components. See NLRB v. Katz, 369 U.S.
736 (1962). And the suggestion that
employers do not have to agree to
certain proposals, although correct, does
not account for the line of cases that
suggest that an important ingredient in
good faith bargaining is a willingness to
compromise. See Phelps Dodge, 337
NLRB 455 (2002).

Turning to the suggestion that the
notice include language informing
employees of their right to “sue” the
union if it fails to represent them fairly,
the Board has concluded that the notice
sufficiently apprises employees of their
right to fair representation and of their
right to file unfair labor practice charges
with the Board should a union fail to
fulfill that duty. The rights that
employees have to sue unions directly
in court without coming to the Board
are beyond the scope of this rulemaking.

f. Coverage Provision

In regard to coverage under the NLRA,
the proposed notice states:

The National Labor Relations Act covers
most private-sector employers. Excluded
from coverage under the NLRA are public-
sector employees, agricultural and domestic
workers, independent contractors, workers
employed by a parent or spouse, employees
of air and rail carriers covered by the Railway
Labor Act, and supervisors (although
supervisors that have been discriminated
against for refusing to violate the NLRA may
be covered). 75 FR 80419.

A comment from the National
Immigration Law Center suggests adding
the following language: ““The NLRA
protects the above-enumerated rights of
all employees, irrespective of their
immigration status. That protection
extends to employees without work
authorization, though certain remedies
in those circumstances may be limited.
Employers cannot threaten you or
intimidate you on the basis of you
immigration status to prevent you from
joining or supporting a union, or
engaging in concerted activity for
mutual aid and protection.”

The Board has decided not to amend
the coverage provision in the final
notice. Although the Board understands
that many immigrant employees may be
unsure whether they are covered by the
NLRA, the notice does not include a list
of covered employees. Including
specific coverage of immigrants, but not
other classes of employees, may cause

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022297
