Singapore: This document has not been delivered for registration to the relevant regulators or financial supervisory
bodies in Hong Kong or Singapore, nor has its content been reviewed or approved by any financial supervisory body or
regulatory authority. The information contained in this document is provided at your request and for your information only.
It does not constitute an offer or invitation to subscribe for securities or interests of any kind. Accordingly, unless permitted
by the securities laws of Hong Kong or Singapore, (i) no person may issue or cause to be issued this document, directly
or indirectly, other than to persons who are professional investors, institutional investors, accredited investors or other
approved recipients under the relevant laws or regulations (ii) no person may issue or have in its possession for the
purposes of issue, this document, or any advertisement, invitation or document relating to it, whether in Hong Kong,
Singapore or elsewhere, which is directed at, or the contents of which are likely to be accessed by, the public in Hong
Kong or Singapore and (iii) the placement of securities or interests to the public in Hong Kong and Singapore is
prohibited. Before investing in securities or interests of any kind, you should consider whether the products are suitable for
you.

United Arab Emirates: The information contained in this document does not constitute, and is not intended to constitute,
a public offer of securities in the United Arab Emirates in accordance with the Commercial Companies Law (Federal Law
No. 8 of 1984, as amended) or otherwise under the laws of the United Arab Emirates. This document has not been
approved by, or filed with the Central Bank of the United Arab Emirates or the Securities and Commodities Authority. If
you do not understand the contents of this document, you should consult with a financial advisor. This document is
provided to the recipient only and should not be provided to or relied on by any other person.

United Kingdom: This material has been approved for issue in the United Kingdom solely for the purposes of Section 21
of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 by GSI, Peterborough Court, 133 Fleet Street, London EC4A 2BB.
Authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential
Regulation Authority.

© 2018 Goldman Sachs. All rights reserved.

Your Personal Data: We may collect and process information about
you that may be subject to data protection laws. To the extent you
are located in the European Union (EUV) or you are interacting with,
and your data may therefore be controlled by, a Goldman Sachs
entity in the EU, you can access more information about how we
use and disclose your personal data, how we protect your
information, our legal basis to use your information, your rights and

who you can contact here: http://www.gs.com/privacy-notices

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026908
