4.2.12
WC: 191694

My Year of Clerking For Justice Goldberg

Justice Arthur Goldberg was a man of action. Before being nominated at age 54 to the Supreme
Court by President John F. Kennedy, Goldberg had accomplished an enormous amount. Unlike
most of the current justices, he would have been in the history books even had he never served on
the High Court.

Arthur Goldberg helped establish the profession of labor law. He represented the most important
labor unions in the country. He helped merge the American Federation of Labor (AFL) with the
Congress of Industrial Organizations (CIO). He helped rid unions of communist influence. He
argued some of the most significant cases before the Supreme Court and other courts, including
the Steel Seizure Case of 1951. He was, perhaps the most successful Secretary of Labor in
history, settling one strike after another and being recognized as a legendary mediator.

The Supreme Court is not a place of action, it is an institution of reaction—to cases and
controversies generated by others. It is a place of thoughtful, often solitary, meditation and
research. Justice Goldberg was used to working with many people. He was accustomed to crisis.
His phone had always rung. When he arrived at the Supreme Court, as he once summarized the
situation, “my phone never rings.” The High Court is the loneliest of institutions. As Justice
Brandeis once put it, “here we do our own work.” The Justices only occassionally interact: on
the bench, in the weekly, somewhat formal, conference; and in informal one-on-one meetings,
which were rare then and even rarer today. It is fair to say that Justice Goldberg was somewhat
lonely, often restless and craved the active life he had left behind.

This is not to say that Justice Goldberg was not a serious intellectual. He was. He was also one
of the smartest justices in history. He loved the Supreme Court. He loved the law. He loved
having intense discussions with his law clerks about jurisprudence and the role of the Supreme
Court. But he needed more than contemplation, deliberation and discussion. The “passive
virtues,” as Professor Alexander Bickel once characterized the Supreme Court’s role in not
making decisions, was a vice to Arthur Goldberg. He wanted to get things done. He too was an
unapologetic judicial activist. He came to the High Court with an agenda—a list of changes he
wanted to help engender.

I will never forget my first meeting with my new boss when I came to work in the Supreme Court
during the summer of 1963. He tossed a certiorari petition at me from across his desk and asked
me to read it in his presence. It was only a few pages long and I did. He then asked me, “What
do you see in it?” I said, “It’s just another pro se cert petition in a capital case.” He said, “No,
what you’re holding in your hand is the vehicle by which we can end capital punishment in the
United States.” Abolishing the death penalty was the first item on his “to do” list as a justice.

My major responsibility during the first part of my clerkship was to draft a memorandum
supporting Justice Goldberg’s views that the death penalty was cruel and unusual punishment in
violation of the Constitution. He knew we had no chance of getting the majority to support that
view—at least not yet—but he wanted to start a dialogue that would ultimately lead to the judicial
abolition of the death penalty. He decided to focus first on an interracial rape case involving an
African American defendant and a white victim, since almost no whites had been executed for

63

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017150
