Producer Donna Gigliotti is my date to the awards. We are both so
nervous we arrive at the Kodak Theater at 3:@@pm and nobody is there. We
are driven around for an hour. When we arrive at the world’s most famous
red carpet, I guide Donna through the extreme right security check-in to
make sure we mingle with the nominees and get on camera. I teach her the
red carpet hustle which is five steps forward, three steps back and one
inch behind a couture-clad nominee. We greet Bryan Lourd as Sandra
Bullock is talking to ABC-TV and a billion people see me wearing a black
Marchesa gown. Five steps forward, three steps back, we next meet
Gwyneth Paltrow. As I hook up the back of her dress another billion
people see us correcting a fashion malfunction. Once again, five steps
forward and three steps back. We are now posing for the still cameras
between Nicole Kidman and Keith Urban. Our handbags begin buzzing.
Countless friends are e-mailing us that they just saw us on television.

James Franco and Anne Hathaway are hip and energetic hosts. The film
montages are always the best and the set looks great. This is the year
of no surprises. Sorkin, Seidler, Christian Bale, Melissa Leo, Natalie
Portman and Colin Firth are totally prepared to receive the gold. Tom
Hooper’s win leads into Best Picture. Harvey is now sitting in
Spielberg’s seats as Spielberg announces the win. Six months of grueling
work have finally paid off. King George VI and Harvey Weinstein now
share the journey of a single man who triumphs over adversity.

The Governor’s ball, held above the Kodak Theater, recreates the Mocambo-
Ciro’s niteries of the 1930’s and 4@’s, using a palette of teal and
white. Three bands alternate musical styles as hungry guests wolf down
Wolfgang Puck’s delicious food. The winners triumphantly sachet around
the room holding their heavy eight pound gold statues.

An hour later there is a migration to the famous Vanity Fair party
hosted by Graydon Carter at the Sunset Tower Hotel owned by Jeff Klein.
One celebrity after another poses in front of the green hedge standing
in the middle of the circular Vanity Fair logo to record their devotion
and support to Graydon and the magazine.

There’s a hierarchy of arrival times. The inner circle of Graydon’s 150
best friends attend a seated dinner and viewing of the show at 5pm. They
include Barry Diller and Diane Von Furstenberg, Francis Ford Coppola,
Jon Hamm and Jennifer Westfeldt, Betsey Bloomingdale, Tory Burch and
Lyor Cohen, Tom Ford, Sandy Gallin, Mitch Glazer and Kelly Lynch,
Carolina and Reinaldo Herrera, L’Wren Scott and Sir Mick Jagger, Naomi
Watts and Live Schreiber, Wendi Stark, Judd Apatow, Jackie and Joan
Collins, George Hammilton, Donna Karan and Steve Martin.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012698
