continued to surprise me with his efforts to make me believe we were
more than just friends with a summer crush. “ You see... your problem is
that you don’t see what I am looking at right here in front of me, a
beautiful girl who is completely lost in a game that she has no control
over. Get out of it now, take my hand and follow me back to my home in
Australia.” I heard what he had said but I found it hard to comprehend
what he was actually talking about. “What?” I asked him with a look of
confusion on my face. “Your nobody’s property, you can do this. Marry
me.” His statements got more and more profound as he went on.
Repeating the question he got on one knee and proposed again “ Jenna, I
am in love with you and want to spend the rest of my life making you
happy. Please don’t go back to him. I know that | am the only one for you
and I will always treat you right. He paused for another second and
repeated his question “Jenna, will you please marry me?” My hands fell
into my face after that and without even letting myself think through the
answer, ! let my heart do all of the talking. Looking back up at him I said
“Yes!” | almost shouted the answer at him, as if saying it louder would
give the word more meaning. Wanting to believe him and everything that
he was saying felt like a vacation from all of the suffering and loneliness
that I had endured over a lifetime of abuse and degradation but knowing
what you want and getting it are two different things that rarely went
hand in hand...or so I thought. All 1 knew from the brief period I had
known this stranger was that he was offering me a life and love down an
unfamiliar path and it was a gamble to believe a complete stranger but
somehow I knew he was right. My heart was beating so loud I thought it
was going to jump right out of my chest. With the earnestly in my reply
he picked me up in his strong arms and took me back to the bed and
reiterated his words in a more physical sense this time. Never had I felt
loved like this before, so swept off my feet and unable to even think, eat,
or do anything for that matter which would involve leaving the hotel
room without him.

Everyday after school would be my Robbie waiting to take me back to
the hotel room for another night’s passionate rendezvous, but a few
nights after his proposal, he had another surprise in store. He didn’t just
want to get married someday. He wanted to get married now, this week
even. I walked into the fabric store and was attended too by several
seamstresses who were already be expecting my arrival. I was there to
design and have fun designing my own dream wedding dress. While I
was busy picking out fabrics and having measurements taken I would
look away for a moment only to catch his tender eyes staring in my
direction. Such adoration behind his looks...could it be real? I would
often ponder it to myself just hoping for the gamble I was taking to work

1 Copyright Protected Material

GIUFFRE004258

out. I still had to believe in something better than what I was accustomed
too and here he was right smack dab in front of me.

Giggling at all of the lace and frills they were trying to dress me up in,
looking more like an antique porcelain doll than anything else T closed
my eyes and pictured the day that I thought would never come, starting to
imagine the kind of dress I would like to wear I envisioned a simple
sleekness, a complimentary figure hugging gown with a small train but
long enough to distinct it as an actual wedding dress. After we settled on
what we were going to wear for the big day, we would next have to
decide where we would hold the ceremony. Not before celebrating the
entire week beforehand though. We started our honeymoon early
celebrating every night spending our time between my hotel room and
sending our heads spinning on the dance floor at many different clubs.
Only with each other in sight, the dance floor was ours, we were out to
give each other something to remember each night by. | whispered all of
the things [ couldn’t wait to do him once we got back to the hotel room
and watching him heat up on the dance floor I was never able to get
enough of him driving me crazy. Like a thirst | was unable to quench, his
lips were like a fountain of deep springs that | could never reach the
bottom of.

Seven days, exactly a week after his proposal I sat on my bed in distress,
contemplating what | would say to the man who | was about to call.
There was no nice way to go about it. | couldn’t last forever with him and
this was my one chance to get out of it for good. | was leaving him, never
to return to him ever again. I just had to go ahead and do it. Part of me
was hoping he’d be at least a little happy for me and the sudden change in
my life’s direction but the other part of me knew I was already asking too
much of him.

Calling his office in New York I was transferred to Jeffrey’s personal
office. He picked up the phone on the third ring, pausing before I could
get any of the words to come out of my mouth but I mustered up my
courage eventually and gave him my prepared spiel. Beginning with how
much I had appreciated everything he has done for me up until this point.
T hoped he would be understanding but he just wanted me to hurry up and
get to the point. Trying to contagiously pass on my excitement through
the phone lines, I finally screamed out “I’m getting married! Can you
believe it?” No reply was given only a silence on the other end. Trying to
make some conversation ridding the uncomfortable silence, | went on to
tell him about Robbie and how I had fallen madly in love with him over
the last amazing few days we'd spent together. The absence of sound
made my thoughts begin to run wild and to get some response | had to
ask him what he thought about everything I was telling him. Finally a few
seconds later his reaction to the news sunk in and his only and final reply

(1 Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL

GIUFFRE004259

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021207
