A CAUTIONARY TALE IN ‘THE USE OF
NON-COMPETE AGREEMENTS

BY DOUGLAS R. HIRSCH AND JENNIFER ROSSAN

Employers should give careful consideration to
the inclusion of non-competition provisions in
employment agreements for low-level employees.
The New York Attorney General (the “AG”) recently
announced that it settled investigations with two
companies over their use of non-compete provi-
sions in employment agreements for low-level
employees. Policing non-compete provisions is a
new regulatory frontier for the AG and it is flex-
ing its regulatory muscle pursuant to § 63 (12) of
New York's Executive Law, which provides the AG
with authority to enjoin businesses from utilizing
“unconscionable contractual provisions.”!

The AG investigated and recently settled charges
with two companies—Law 360 and Jimmy John’s
Gourmet Sandwiches—based on their use of
“unconscionable” non-compete provisions in
employment contracts. In the Law 360 matter, the
Attorney General found that Law 360’s policy of
requiring the majority of its employees—includ-
ing “rank and file” editorial staff who had little to
no knowledge of any trade secrets or confidential
information—to sign a one-year non-compete was
contrary to New York law. Because these employees
did not have access to trade secrets and confiden-
tial information, the AG charged that the non-
compete was not narrowly tailored to Law 360's
legitimate business interests and did nothing more
than baldly restrain competition. As part of the set-
tlement, Law 360 agreed that, going forward, only
a small number of its highly paid executives would
be required to sign non-compete agreements.

Similarly, in its investigation of Jimmy John’s, the
AG found that some franchisees required sandwich
makers to sign two-year non-competes that pre-
vented them from working at any establishment
within a two-mile radius of a Jimmy John’s loca-
tion that made more than 10% of its revenue from
sandwiches. The AG charged that these employ-
ees “are highly unlikely to be privy to trade secrets
or confidential customer lists or to have unique
skills.” Consequently, the AG concluded that the
non-compete provisions were “unconscionable”.
As part of its settlement, Jimmy John’s agreed to
inform its franchisees that the AG found the non-
compete provisions to be unlawful and void.

In both of these cases, the AG focused on the
effect of a non-compete provision on a low-level
employee. Companies should consider avoiding
the use of non-compete provisions for admin-
istrative personnel and other non-managerial
staff. Such provisions are appropriate and are
more likely to withstand scrutiny when included
in the employment agreements of senior per-
sonnel and individuals with unique skills—as
long as the provisions are drafted to protect a
legitimate business interest. Non-competes are

Non-competes are more
likely to be upheld if they
are designed to ensure that
a departing employee will
not provide a competitor
with an unfair competitive

advantage by supplying it

with the former employer's
trade secrets and/or
confidential information.

more likely to be upheld if they are designed to
ensure that a departing employee will not provide
a competitor with an unfair competitive advan-
tage by supplying it with the former employer's
trade secrets and/or confidential information.
However, it is important to note that requiring
all employees—including lower-level staff—to
adhere to confidentiality provisions that pro-
tect proprietary information and trade secrets
does not implicate the same concerns, because
enforcement of such provisions does not restrain
the employee from working elsewhere. Therefore,
confidentiality provisions should be used in all
employment agreements where the employee's
position involves access to confidential informa-
tion or trade secrets.

Even when a non-compete is appropriate—
such as in the case of a senior manager whose

departure would create an unfair advantage for
a competitor—its scope and duration must be
narrowly tailored to protect a legitimate busi-
ness interest. To be enforceable in New York,
a non-compete must be reasonable in time
and scope, necessary to protect the employer's
legitimate interests, not harmful to the public
and not unreasonably burdensome to the
employee.

In addition to confidentiality provisions, employers
should strongly consider the use of a non-solici-
tation provision in their employment agreements.
Non-solicitation provisions are generally enforce-
able if they are reasonably related to the employ-
er’s interest in protecting relationships with clients
the employee worked with or became familiar with
while employed. But like non-compete agree-
ments, non-solicitation provisions must also be
limited in time and scope.

| See New York Executive Law § 63 (12).

Douglas R. Hirsch is the Partner in
charge of Sadis & Goldberg’s Litiga-
tion Practice. Mr. Hirsch’s practice is
focused on hedge fund and secutities
litigation and he regularly represents
both investors and investment advis- -
ers in a wide range of investment-related disputes, such
as fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, derviative actions,
class actions, and SEC enforcement actions. Mr. Hirsch’s
25 years of litigation experience has encompassed a
broad range of trials, class action litigations, arbitrations
and mediations. Doug can be reached at 212.573.6670,
or at dhirsch@sglawyers.com.

Jennifer Rossan practices in the
firm’s Litigation Group. Ms. Rossan
has extensive trial experience and has
obtained successful verdicts for her
clients in a number of large federal
court trials. Ms. Rossan focuses her G
practice on a wide range of financial services disputes
including SEC and FINRA enforcement actions. She also
litigates complex commercial matters and employment
law matters, including claims of wrongful termination
and harassment, and negotiates and reviews employ-
ment contracts. Jennifer can be reached at 212.573.8783,
or jrossan@sglawyers.com.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019859
