Chapter 17
A Preschool-Based Roadmap to Advanced AGI

17.1 Introduction

Supposing the CogPrime approach to creating advanced AGI is workable — then what are the
right practical steps to follow? The various structures and algorithms outlined in Part 2 of
this book should be engineered and software-tested, of course — but that’s only part of the
study. The AGI system implemented will need to be taught, and it will need to be placed in
situations where it can develop an appropriate self-model and other critical internal network
structures. The complex structures and algorithms involved will need to be fine-tuned in various
ways, based on qualitatively observing the overall system’s behavior in various situations. To
get all this right without excessive confusion or time-wastage requires a fairly clear roadmap for
CogPrime development.

In this chapter we’ll sketch one particular roadmap for the development of human-level,
roughly human-like AGI — which we’re not selling as the only one, or even necessarily as the
best one. It’s just one roadmap that we have thought about a lot, and that we believe has a
strong chance of proving effective. Given resources to pursue only one path for AGI development
and teaching, this would be our choice, at present. The roadmap outlined here is not restricted
to CogPrime in any highly particular ways, but it has been developed largely with CogPrime
in mind; those developing other AGI designs could probably use this roadmap just fine, but
might end up wanting to make various adjustments based on the strengths and weaknesses of
their own approach.

What we mean here by a roadmap is, in brief: a sequence of milestone tasks, occurring
in a small set of common environments or scenarios, organized so as to lead to a commonly
agreed upon set of long-term goals. I.e., what we are after here is a capability roadmap —
roadmap laying out a series of capabilities whose achievement seems likely to lead to human-
level AGI. Other sorts of roadmaps such as tools roadmaps may also be valuable, but are not
our concern here.

More precisely, we confront the task of roadmapping by identifying scenarios in which to
embed our AGI system, and then competency areas in which the AGI system must be eval-
uated. Then, we envision a roadmap as consisting of a set of one or more task-sets, where each
task set is formed from a combination of a scenario with a list of competency areas. To create
a task-set one must choose a particular scenario, and then articulate a set of specific tasks,
each one addressing one or more of the competency areas. Each task must then get associated
with particular performance metrics — quantitative wherever possible, but perhaps qualitative

307

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013223
