I’m not a virgin. But his was the worst I’ve ever seen. It was like an
assassination. )

After a short discussion of the Qartarian’s visit—Epstein is serving
the chocolate, made from pistachios grown on the Shakes farm—and
speculation about who actually controls ISIS, I am asked to leave the room.
Twenty minutes later, after what ever business has been transacted or
particular confidences, shared I am asked back in.

“Why?” I asked Weingarten, when Epstein briefly steps out of the
room, “do some many people keep coming back here, everything
considered.”

“Why we camp out here? I find that question as mysterious as you
do,” says Weingarten.

Shortly after Weingarten leaves, Epstein tells me that Eric Holder will
resign by the end of the week—which he does.

Epstein summons in the next person cooling his heels in the ante-
room. It’s a young man named Brook Pierce, a former child actor, and
dotcom high flyer—a principle in a gaming company called DEN, a
notorious dotcom burnout, with its own sex scandal—who is now a leading
investor in Bitcoin. He describe himself as the “the most active investor in
the field.”

And, indeed, is the first clear explanation I actually get about Bitcoin.
It is so good that Epstein stops him and checks to see if his next appointment
is here. And seconds later, Larry Summers, the former treasury secretary and
President of Harvard, enters the dining room. Summers, off Diet Coke, digs
deep into the Shakes chocolates, focuses in on the Bitcoin investor.

“Okay,” he says, after listening for a bit, “I have opportunities here.
But an additional feature of my decision problem roughly speaking is that
the worst that could happen to you is that you could lose all the money you
put into it. Whereas, I could go—I mean I don’t look that great now—but I
could go from being seen as a figure of some probity and some intelligence
to being a figure of much less intelligence and much less probity...”

“Well,” says Pierce in what in some dramatic understatement, “you
are going to have some low quality characters playing the space...”

That evening, there is a small cocktail party, which includes the former
Prime Minister of Australian, Kevin Rudd, and Thorbjern Jaglandthe head
of the Noble Peace Prize Committee, who offers an affable, but general
scathing, critique of U.S. diplomacy (and a brief defense of Obama’s Peace
Prize award) and to whom Epstein offers a ride back to Europe on his jet.

The next morning, it’s Ehud Barack, the former Israeli Prime Minister
and Israel, for breakfast. Barack is, over his omlet, able to defend both

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022958
