2. Do not e-mail first thing in the morning or last thing at night.

The former scrambles your priorities and plans for the day, and the latter just gives you insomnia. E-mail
can wait until 10 A.M., after you’ve completed at least one of your critical to-do items.

3. Do not agree to meetings or calls with no clear agenda or end time.

If the desired outcome is defined clearly with a stated objective and agenda listing topics/questions to
cover, no meeting or call should last more than 30 minutes. Request them in advance so you “can best
prepare and make good use of the time together.”

4. Do not let people ramble.

Forget “How’s it going?” when someone calls you. Stick with “What’s up?” or “I’m in the middle of
getting something out, but what’s going on?” A big part of GTD (Getting Things Done) is GTP—Getting
To the Point.

5. Do not check e-mail constantly —“‘batch” and check at set times only.

I belabor this point enough. Get off the cocaine pellet dispenser and focus on execution of your top to-
do’s instead of responding to manufactured emergencies. Set up a strategic autoresponder and check
twice or thrice daily.

6. Do not over-communicate with low- profit, high-maintenance customers.

There is no sure path to success, but the surest path to failure is trying to please everyone. Do an 80/20
analysis of your customer base in two ways—which 20% are producing 80%+ of my profit, and which
20% are consuming 80%+ of my time? Then put the loudest and least productive on autopilot by citing a
change in company policies. Send them an e-mail with new rules as bullet points: number of permissible
phone calls, e-mail response time, minimum orders, etc. Offer to point them to another provider if they
aren’t able to adopt the new policies.

7.Do not work more to fix overwhelmingness— prioritize.

If you don’t prioritize, everything seems urgent and important. If you define the single most important
task for each day, almost nothing seems urgent or important. Oftentimes, it’s just a matter of letting little
bad things happen (return a phone call late and apologize, pay a small late fee, lose an unreasonable
customer, etc.) to get the big important things done. The answer to overwhelmingness is not spinning
more plates—or doing more—it’s defining the few things that can really fundamentally change your
business and life.

8. Do not carry a cell phone or Crackberry 24/7.

Take at least one day off of digital leashes per week. Turn them off or, better still, leave them in the
garage or in the car. I do this on at least Saturday, and I recommend you leave the phone at home if you
go out for dinner. So what if you return a phone call an hour later or the next morning’? As one reader
put it to a miffed co-worker who worked 24/7 and expected the same: “J’m not the president of the U.S.
No one should need me at 8 P.M. at night. OK, you didn’t get a hold of me. But what bad happened?”
The answer? Nothing.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014002
