Fittuy Ricu

me personally in that area. Soon after that I went to Epstein’s
home in Palm Beach on El Brillo Way.

.5. From the first time I was taken to Epstein’s mansion
that day, his motivations and actions were sexual, as were
Maxwell’s. My father was not allowed inside. I was brought
up some stairs. There was a naked guy, Epstein, on the table
in the room. Epstein and Maxwell forced me into sexual

CHAPT ER 34 activity with Epstein. I was 15 years old at the time. He
seemed to be in his 40s or 50s. I was paid $200. I was driven
home by one of Epstein’s employees.
4 6. I came back for several days following and did the
4 same sorts of sexual things for Epstein.
ierts Giuffre: January 1) : E 7. After I did those things for Epstein, he and Maxwell said
015 by attorneys 4 a they were going to have me travel and were going to get an edu-
’s victims 4 cation for me. They were promising me the world, that I would
: | travel with Epstein on his private jet and have a well-paid pro-
3 Jession. Epstein said he would eventually match me up with a
fre and I was born in August, . y wealthy person so that I would be “set up” for life.
i 4 8. So I started “working” exclusively for Epstein. He took
-aitl a 4 me to New York on his big, private jet. We went to his man-
h, Florida. When I was litile, I q sion in New York City. I was shown to my room, a very luxu-
‘be a veterinarian. But my life rious room. The mansion was huge. I was very young and I
then. adults— including Jeffrey got scared because it was so big. Epstein brought me to a
Alan Dershowitz— began to be room with a massage parlor. Epstein made me engage [in]
me. sexual activities with him there.
| when I was 15 years old, I met : | 9. You can see how young I looked in the photograph
te daughter of Robert Maxwell, j q below [see insert page 3].

10. Epstein took me on a ferry boat on one of the trips to
New York City and there he took the picture above. I was
approximately 15 or 16 years old at the time.

lisher in Britain. Maxwell asked
-y Epstein’s mansion for the pur-
perform “massages” and to train

135

134

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021991
