am concerned re brad taking barrys place re XXXX. In the beginning Barry will need to find and learn
ACCURATE .. org charts. books , balance sheets . trust valuations. are all a part. Barry will need 2
months to just get his arm around what is there , this is before any needed modifications.,

a way overdue re- fresh of your estate plan. . clats , trust. partnerships. grats. Ilcs. bank accounts ,
filing requirements. etc. the long awaited review of the brh tra and shareholders agreement to see how
they fit into new plan. . XXXXX planning. art partnership engagement .. , airplane re-do. , buying

another. .? boat sale , Miami sale. . TRADING ACCOUNTS. . three years overdue. . an
accounting system. fire john .. joslin stays for a year. or so. so does tom and . except for heather
everyone should be replaced withnew. . Sell Artspace and shut down regan arts. . rationalize. cash
flow reporting. cash mgmt. stock sales. sec irs. gaming. foreign reporting. the 8865 mess will take
months to review now. . you CANNOT file unreviewed audited documents. .CANNOT!!! _ this will
be very detailed work. . a self inflicted wound - all avoidable if professionals had been in place to limit .
or contain it. . . you will need 3 new hires .as there is no one in your office that is truly an A player. I
have great hope in Barry as you know. He will need to be trained. note

; One year is my guesstimate After 4 years of telling you , that you could do better than Halperin, : im
glad that you now are willing to follow barrys advice . I take no offense , in fact I take comfort in the
fact that after only one conversation with Barry you are now convinced to make that change . will take a
year or more.

I expect as a friend you will understand that

I will no longer , not even for one day , work on your affairs . without the compensation that is long
overdue. . your unilateral idea of after care , not imposed on any other professional , except me, not paul
weiss ,( caesars alone , a direct screw up on their part ) tom, akin, ,no one. needs toend.. you and I
had previously agreed no more of that , and this after you decided not to pay me per our agreement. to be
fair I can not say im surprised as you have email after email , stating that , if you save a great deal of
money, you wont want to pay , so limit it to 40m per year. - water under the bridge

If I can find the time to work , on your project , which is not by any means certain as I have said, I
hope you understand that it now will have to be under my standard terms and conditions. and well
documented so as to avoid any more of the he said she said. I never want to have any more
uncomfortable money moments with you , I find it very distasteful. . so to be clear , my terms are as
follows. I will only work for the usual 40 million per year. It needs to be paid, 25 million upon signing
an agreement . 5 million every 2 months thereafter for 6 months ie march may june . this can begin if 1
am able in January. I will immediately stop work , if the payment is not received. If you want me to
work this year until Jan 15, it will be 10 million. paid upfront. after one year you will be left with a
new estate plan a running office. staffed with professionals overseen by Barry. (hallelujah ) a tax plan .
and an investment that returns more than any painting you could possible own. _. no agreement - no
work. however - I of course will talk to Barry for the hour that i promised , and take your guidance as
to what I should say.

her the last two places. ?

To: Melanie Spinella i

Leon please read the attached proposed response to the IRS_, see if you can understand it !!!._ Ive asked
for are-do. and given prelimiary directions to Alan to have it edited over the weekend

If you are quarterbacking ,ok with me. just please let everyone know. you must deal with the
outrageous incompetence in your family office .. Alans words  but I was told that.. , but I was told by
the office (sic) that ...., BUT 1 was told by joslin,. , but I was told by .  why is leon blaming me for ..

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023265
