youngest, unmarried, was teaching bilingual mathematics in high school. | had
waited several years for this occasion.. The meeting took place in a large, gray,
unmarked warehouse building that was crowded in back with high stacks of storage
cartons. The large, cement floored, open space in front of the storage boxes was
occupied by rows of metal folding chairs. They faced an unadorned, elevated
wooden platform upon which was a lectern and microphone. Behind the lectern
stood a casual array of a dozen or so young people, singing hymns and playing a
variety of instruments. These included piano, two or three guitars and upright bass,
tenor saxophone, trombone, trumpet, mouth organ and two snare drums. Sounding
a bit like a Salivation Army Band, they played and sang, “They cast their nets in
Galilee just off the hills of brown; such happy simple fisher folk, before the Lord
came down...the peace of God, it is no peace, but strife closed in the sod. Yet let us
pray for but one thing, the marvelous peace of God.”

The building, used for commercial storage, packaging and mass mailings
during the week and a Charismatic Christian word church on Sunday, was located
at the rear of an unfinished strip mall. A new and well-polished yellow Cadillac
Deville was the only vehicle parked in the no parking zone immediately in front of
the entrance to the warehouse. My youngest explained that the car belonged to Carl
Austin, the self-discovered and declared pastor, who spontaneously rose up to lead
without academic religious training or a conventional ordination. The bright yellow
car was explained as evidence of the power of God. Paraphrasing Mark, my son
told me “...he who does not doubt in his heart and believes that those things he
says will come to pass, he will have whatever he says...whatever things you ask for
when you pray, believe that you receive them, and you will have them.” The car
served as a glorious instantiation of the church’s major promise of the rewards of
faith.

Pastor Carl Austin, a tall, blonde, portly man in his early thirties with a
resonant tenor voice, was the youngest of several children of a poor Midwest farm
family. He had been a state college drop out and without a career or a job. His
sermons contained stories about how he had caught spiritual fire at a revival

meeting conducted by Kenneth Hagin of Kenneth Hagin Ministries, aka Rhema

127

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013627
