Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 751-18 Filed 03/17/17 Page 2 of 3

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Richard A. Simpson, RSimpson@wileyrein.com
April 8, 2016

Lawyers Acknowledge Mistake In Filing Sexual Misconduct Charges Against Professor Dershowitz

Professor Alan M. Dershowitz released the following statement regarding resolution of the case styled
Bradley Edwards, et al. v. Alan M. Dershowitz, Case No. CACE 15-000072 (Cir. Ct., Broward Cnty., Fla.).

STATEMENT OF ALAN M. DERSHOWITZ

| am pleased that the litigation has concluded and | am gratified by the

Joint Statement issued today by Jeffrey E. Streitfeld on behalf of the parties, in which
“Edwards and Cassell acknowledge that it was a mistake to have filed sexual misconduct
accusations against Dershowitz and the sexual misconduct accusations made in all public
filings (including all exhibits) are hereby withdrawn.” Mr. Streitfeld’s announcement and
the Joint Statement are copied below.

ANNOUNCEMENT BY JEFFREY E. STREITFELD, FLORIDA SUPREME COURT CERTIFIED CIRCUIT CIVIL
MEDIATOR (Streitfeldlaw.com)

It is my pleasure to report that Bradley J. Edwards, Paul G. Cassell, and Alan M.

Dershowitz have resolved their disputes and have agreed to settle the claims raised in an
action pending in the Broward County, Florida Circuit Court. Since being appointed by
Circuit Court Judge Thomas Lynch IV last fall, it has been a privilege to act as the mediator
and assist the parties and their counsel toward this agreed resolution. | want to extend my
appreciation for the professionalism exhibited by the parties and their counsel with whom
| worked directly: Jack Scarola, Rick Simpson, Tom Scott, and Ken Sweder. As part of their
agreement, the parties have issued the attached Joint Statement.

JOINT STATEMENT OF BRAD EDWARDS, PAUL CASSELL AND ALAN DERSHOWITZ REGARDING
SETTLEMENT

Brad Edwards, Paul Cassell and Alan Dershowitz have today settled their pending
defamation claims in which Edwards and Cassell sued Dershowitz and Dershowitz
counterclaimed against Edwards and Cassell. The case was about Dershowitz’s public
claims that Edwards and Cassell, as the attorneys for Virginia Roberts, had failed to perform
the necessary due diligence before filing the allegations of their client, not whether the acts
of alleged misconduct in fact occurred. Edwards and Cassell vigorously denied the
contention that they had acted improperly and asserted that it defamed them. Dershowitz
countersued Edwards and Cassell, alleging they had falsely accused him of sexual contact
with Roberts—a claim he vigorously denied and that Dershowitz asserted defamed him.
Edwards and Cassell maintain that they filed their client’s allegations in good faith and
performed the necessary due diligence to do so, and have produced documents detailing
those efforts. Dershowitz completely denies any such misconduct, while not disputing
Roberts’s statements that the underlying alleged misconduct may have occurred with
someone else. Dershowitz has produced travel and other records for the relevant times
which he relies on to establish that he could not have been present when the alleged

GM_00523

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014844
