Just like Ghislane had trained me it was now my job to reiterate that
onto other girls and thus the cycle of girls trying to climb the chain of
hierarchy would start all over each time I brought a new one in. The
sessions rarely differed much. They would mostly start out with Jeffrey
on top of the massage table already naked and me leading a girl into
massaging him until his instructions came to remove our clothing and if
they agreed to that, then Jeffrey knew he had them in his pocket, and
could do what ever else he wanted. He was never turned down in the
many years I stayed with him. Never being shy, he would tell us to start
kissing each other or depending on what he wanted we would perform
erotic acts sometimes with him fondling us, or just masturbating while he
watched. On explicit occasions, sex toys would be used on us girls,
making it all the more exciting for him to observe. Ending with a
payment of $200 for the new girl and $400 to me for bringing her. He
would then wait for us to leave before adding the events details of names
and payments in a little black diary he kept with him wherever he went,
so if he were in anyone of the city’s he lived in, he would always have
contacts for sex.

I was slowly climbing the ladder, as Jeffrey was happy taking me
everywhere with him, within the States. Merely at home I distanced
myself from my Family altogether and with Jeffrey renting me an
apartment in Royal Palm Beach as well as a plush furnished apartment in
N.Y.C, there was hardly a need to see them. I just couldn’t face everyone
thinking they all knew what I was really doing travelling around with a
man old enough to be my grandfather who supposedly only wanted me
for massages. Much further convincing myself of the lies I told myself, I-
took a liking to the Xanax, it felt like it was all a dream at times, even
meeting up with old contacts from school years who experimented with
drugs. I was flying around the country, seeing so many places in America
Thad only heard about in Movies and making more money than anyone
my age and loving it. My friends didn’t believe the lies I told them about
only being a massage therapist, some of them even asking if they can
meet Jeffrey too. At this point in my life my heart went missing for a
while and I stooped so low, I was even bringing my friends, I just saw
them as easy commission. When I wasn’t playing servant to my master, I
was partying hard, eventually using ecstasy pills, acid, and marijuana to
disillusion the times I would’ve had away from Jeffrey to think about
what I was actually doing with my life. I realized something one day
while I was alone, although I had Jeffrey to attend to sexually, it was not
gratifying. I needed someone to come home to, someone I could call my
boyfriend and that showed me emotion not just a job to get done.

44

1 Copyright Protected Material
CONEIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004 174

Chapter 7

A knock came to my apartment door one lazy afternoon while we were
in Palm Beach. I looked through the peephole and didn’t recognize the
once familiar face. I asked from behind the closed door “Who is it”? The
voice of the reply was one I wasn’t anticipating to ever hear again. It was
my Junior-High crush and childhood friend, T.J, The last ime I saw him I
was a runaway and he had let me stay at his house for a few days, telling
his parents nothing, he kept me hidden away in his room. At nightfall he
said to knock on his window and I could jump through and stay the night.
Until I was picked up by authorities during school hours and questioned
why I wasn’t in school they did some resourcing finding out I was a
runaway, then delivered me back to my angry parents.

“Oh My God- You finally answer your door girl”, and in a whirlwind,
T.J stormed back into my life. Even moving into my apartment, secretly,
within two weeks of his arrival. He had changed so much from the last
time I had seen him. He used to be this hard looking rocker type, now he
was cleaned up wearing preppy clothes and shooting out Tupac Lyrics.
He had the same old big brown eyes though, and when he told me he had
heard I was back in town but he was unable to ever get ahold of me he
just kept knocking at my door every so often, | was sold. How sweet !
thought, he must care about me if he was so intent on approaching me,
not even thinking he would’ ve spoken to the girls from our junior-high
circle and they would’ve mentioned him I was back in town, what I was
doing and where to find me. We were a drug-induced romance, which
budded from fake emotions the affects made us feel. He got what he
wanted, a free ride and not having to work, and ! got what I deserved, a
man who could let me go away with this multi-billionaire I regarded as
my second boyfriend.

I didn’t want to alarm Jeffrey in me having a boyfriend so | kept it
quiet, until during a massage I was giving to him one afternoon. We were
having a conversation about some of my friends, the party girls I had
brought in to meet him. Jeffrey started asking questions about the
different types of drugs they used hearing them speak about it in his
presence. “I thought a person on drugs would be all strung out and
looking like hell, but the girls you know look great” he stated face down
during the massage.

That’s when J told him I had been dabbling in ecstasy lately too, and |
thought it was the most amazing feeling one could even fathom. I tried to
describe the euphoric feelings it gave me and even joked with him about
wanting to pet anything furry that was around and then there was the
constant need to flick my tongue-ring around my mouth. It was great

42

© Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL

GIUIVFRE004 175

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021165
