can be given that the IRS will agree with the description of the U.S. federal income tax
consequences described above. No rulings have been or will be requested from the IRS.
Furthermore, any changes in the principal agreements relating to the Fund or the operations of
the Fund could affect the tax consequences described above.

Consultation with Tax Advisors - The description of U.S. tax matters set forth above is not
intended as a substitute for careful tax planning. It does not address all of the U.S. federal
income tax consequences to investors in the Fund, and does not address any of the foreign,
state, local, estate or other tax consequences of such investment to any investor, except as
otherwise specifically provided. Each prospective investor in the Fund is solely responsible for
all tax consequences to that person or entity of an investment in the Fund. Each prospective
investor is advised to consult its own tax counsel as to the U.S. federal income tax consequences
attributable to acquiring, holding and disposing of an Limited Partner Interest and as to
applicable foreign, state, local, estate or other taxes. The effect of existing U.S. income tax laws
and treaties, the tax laws of other jurisdictions to which an investor may be subject, and possible
changes in such laws and treaties (including proposed changes which have not yet been
adopted) will vary with the particular circumstances of each investor.

CERTAIN ERISA CONSIDERATIONS

ERISA governs the investment of assets of ERISA Plans that may be investors, directly or
indirectly, in the Fund. ERISA, the regulations under ERISA issued by the United States
Department of Labor (the “DOL”) and opinions and other authority issued by the DOL and the
courts provide guidance that should be considered by fiduciaries of ERISA Plans prior to
investing in the Fund.

The following discussion of certain ERISA considerations is based on statutory authority and
judicial and administrative interpretations as of the date hereof and is designed only to provide
a general understanding of the basic issues. Accordingly, this discussion should not be
considered legal advice and the trustees and other fiduciaries of each ERISA Plan are
encouraged to consult their own legal advisors on these matters.

Fiduciary Duty of Investing Plans

A fiduciary considering investing assets of an Employee Plan (“plan assets”) in the Fund should
consult its legal adviser before making such an investment. Before authorizing an investment in
the Fund, any such fiduciary should, after considering the Employee Plan’s particular
circumstances, be satisfied that the investment of such plan assets in the Fund is appropriate
under the fiduciary standards of ERISA, including standards with respect to prudence,
diversification and compliance with the governing documents of the Employee Plan and its
related trust and the prohibited transaction provisions of ERISA and the Code.

Plan Assets
ERISA and the regulation issued by the DOL at 29 C.F.R. § 2510.3-101, as modified or deemed to
be modified by ERISA (the “Plan Assets Regulation”), define the term “plan assets” as applied

to entities in which a plan invests, directly or indirectly, such as the Fund. The Plan Assets
Regulation provides that when an ERISA Plan acquires an equity interest in an entity, and such

82 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024093
