po on Am FF WN EH

ON NN NY NY FF FP FP FP FP RFP Pr re
WU BPW NY FF OM ON H MO Pw NY PO

245

that you were in the same place at the same time

A. First --

Q. --as Virginia Roberts?

MR. SCOTT: Let him ask the question.
THE WITNESS: Okay.
MR. SCOTT: Then you answer the question.

And Mr. Searola will try to, you know, keep the

emotion down, I'm sure, so we can get through

this with less acrimony between everybody here.

A. Your client has adamantly refused, as well
as the lawyer --

BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. No, sir, that's nonresponsive to my
question.

MR. SCOTT: Wait a minute.
BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. My question is: Do you deny that the
flight logs corroborate that you were in the same
place at the same time as Virginia Roberts?

A. So the question includes the word time
and, therefore, I must answer in this way. Your
client --

Q. How to build a watch?

MR. SCOTT: Wait a minute, you're cutting
him off. He's been trying to answer the

Oo On DM B® WN FE

NNNNNN PRP BP PB PP eH PB
ob WN HF OO OT AW BW NH Oo

247

I would be very anxious to see any timeframes when
Virginia Roberts claims she was with me on the
island, claims she was with me on -- at the ranch,
claims she was with me on the airplanes, claims she
was with me in Palm Beach. And they will all
conclusively --

. You forgot --

-- prove --
. «New York. Didn't you mean New York

. No, I did not mean New York --

. Oh, okay.

. +- because New York is very different. I
was, in fact, in New York for large periods of time.
I was not, in fact, on the island during the
relevant timeframe. I was not in the airplane in
the relevant timeframe. I was not in Jeffrey
Epstein's Palm Beach home in the relevant timeframe.
And I was once in the ranch but under circumstances
where it would have been absolutely impossible for
me to have had any contact with her.

So if you will give me the timeframe, I

will be happy to answer your question. But without
timeframes, that question is an absolutely
inappropriate question. And the answer to if is no.

ot

246

question.

A. Your client has adamantly refused, and her
lawyers and your clients have refused to give me any
timeframes, any timeframes when your clicnt claims
that she had improper -- falsely claims,
perjuriously claims that she had improper sexual
encounters with me.

So how can you possibly ask me a question
that includes the word timeframes when your client
has refused -- when Virginia Roberts has refused to
give any timeframes? How can it be possible that
the flight logs show me being in the same time and
saine place with her when she has refused to describe
any of the times that she claims to have been in
those places?

So the answer to the question is
categorically no, sir.

BY MR, SCAROLA:

Q. What is the question that you are
answering no to?

A. Whether or not the timeframe shows that I
could have been in the samc placc at the same time
as your client. Absolutcly not. Because we don't
know what times your client -- now, if you know
that, you should have produced them in discovery and

on ODN DM FWD

NNNNN NF PHP RP BB Oe eB
OP WN OHM DBIYAMH BwWN RB

248

Q. Well, Mr. Dershowitz, it might be
inappropriate if you had not repeatedly made the
public statements that the flight logs exonerate
you.

A. They do.

Q. So what I am attempting to find out is the
basis upon which you can contend that the flight
logs exonerate you if you are now telling us you
don't even know when it is that you are alleged to
have been in the same place at the same time as
Virginia Roberts.

A. Okay.

Q. So how -- how can you make both those
statements?

A. Very simple, because I know the timeframe
that Virginia Roberts, A, knew Jeffrey Epstein. And
during that timeframe, I can conclusively prove that
1 was never on Jeffrey Epstein's island where she
claimed to have sex with me. That the only time |
was at the ranch was with my wife, with the Ashe
family, with my daughter, the house was under
construction, we just simply stayed outside the
house and looked around. That the manifests show |
was never on Jeffrey Epstein's plane during that
period of time. And the manifests show that I never

18 (Pages 245 to 248)

www.phippsreporting.com
(888) 811-3408

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010800
