invariably greeted each other with a kiss and that the adult Jared called his father Daddy.

Neither Donald nor Jared, no matter their domineering fathers, went into the world
with humility. Insecurity was soothed by entitlement. Both out-of-towners who were eager
to prove themselves or lay rightful claim in Manhattan (Kushner from New Jersey, Trump
from Queens), they were largely seen as overweening, smug, and arrogant. Each cultivated
a smooth affect, which could appear more comical than graceful. Neither, by choice nor
awareness, could seem to escape his privilege. “Some people who are very privileged are
aware of it and put it away; Kushner not only seemed in every gesture and word to
emphasize his privilege, but also not to be aware of it,’ said one New York media
executive who dealt with Kushner. Both men were never out of their circle of privilege.
The main challenge they set for themselves was to enter further into the privileged circle.
Social climbing was their work.

Jared’s focus was often on older men. Rupert Murdoch spent a surprising amount of
time with Jared, who sought advice from the older media mogul about the media business
—which the young man was determined to break into. Kushner paid long court to Ronald
Perelman, the billionaire financier and takeover artist, who later would host Jared and
Ivanka in his private shul on Jewish high holy days. And, of course, Kushner wooed
Trump himself, who became a fan of the young man and was uncharacteristically tolerant
about his daughter’s conversion to Orthodox Judaism when that became a necessary next
step toward marriage. Likewise, Trump as a young man had carefully cultivated a set of
older mentors, including Roy Cohn, the flamboyant lawyer and fixer who had served as
right-hand man to the red-baiting Senator Joe McCarthy.

And then there was the harsh fact that the world of Manhattan and particular its living
voice, the media, seemed to cruelly reject them. The media long ago turned on Donald
Trump as a wannabe and lightweight, and wrote him off for that ultimate sin—anyway, the
ultimate sin in media terms—of trying to curry favor with the media too much. His fame,
such as it was, was actually reverse fame—he was famous for being infamous. It was joke
fame.

To understand the media snub, and its many levels of irony, there is no better place to
look than the New York Observer, the Manhattan media and society weekly that Kushner
bought in 2006 for $10 million—by almost every estimate $10 million more than it was
worth.

7 OK Ok

The New York Observer was, when it launched in 1987, a rich man’s fancy, as much failed
media often is. It was a bland weekly chronicle of the Upper East Side, New York’s
wealthiest neighborhood. Its conceit was to treat this neighborhood like a small town. But
nobody took any notice. Its frustrated patron, Arthur Carter, who made his money in the
first generation of Wall Street consolidations, was introduced to Graydon Carter (no

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019939
