46 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

and winter of 2012. Many of the documents he took off the NSANet
revealed operations not only of the NSA but also of the CIA and the
Pentagon. By taking them, he had come to a Rubicon from which
there would be no return. He later explained in an e-mail to Vanity
Fair from Moscow, “I crossed that line.”

As far as is known, Snowden was not sharing documents with any
other party prior to May 2013. He was not even yet in contact with
Poitras, Greenwald, or any other journalists. Presumably, Snowden
was collecting them on drives—despite the risks that possessing
such a collection of secrets might entail—for some future use.

Why would Snowden jeopardize his career and, if caught, his free-
dom by undertaking this illicit enterprise? He might by now have
had strong ideological objections to the NSA’s global surveillance. As
he said later in Moscow, “We're subverting our security standards
for the sake of surveillance.” Ordinarily, though, even ideologically
opposed employees don’t steal state secrets and risk imprisonment.
If they are disgruntled, they seek employment elsewhere. Certainly,
Snowden, with his three years’ experience working for Dell, would

® have little problem finding a job as an IT worker in the booming ®
civilian sector of computer technology. Instead, he sought to widen
his access to NSA documents. This behavior suggests that he might
have had another agenda. One possible clue to it is the first docu-
ment he took: the NSA exam. The answers to the questions in it
represented to him a form of tactical power. Those answers could
empower him to obtain a more important job in the NSA itself that
would allow him to burrow deeper into the executive structure of
the agency. Holding such a job would unlock the door to documents
containing the NSA’s sources stored in areas not available to Dell
contractors like himself.

His later actions demonstrated that he equated the possession of
such secrets with personal power. For example, after he arrived in
Moscow in 2013, he bragged to James Risen of the Times that he
had access to secrets that gave him great leverage over the NSA. He
told him specifically his access to “full lists” of the NSA’s agents and
operations in adversary countries could, if revealed, close down the
NSA’s capabilities to gather information in them.

Such a fascination with the power of government-held secrets

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 46 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019534
