I am more than happy to discuss different ways to make this possible and I have some suggestions if
[company name] would be willing to consider them. We can test this arrangement for a few months to
see if it works for both of us, since that would make the most sense.

Role #1: Graphic Design and Print Advertising Coordinator
Responsibility:

Create timelines for print materials and coordinate with respective program teams.

Expectations:
e Print materials will be completed on time.

Responsibility:
Coordinate design projects with program directors and outside graphic artists/designers.

Expectations:

e Print materials designs are suitable for the audience, accurate, and appealing.

e Print materials are professional quality and produced within set timelines.

Responsibility:
Maintain relationships with print vendors to minimize cost relative to time and quality in producing
program print materials.

Expectations:

e Print materials are printed within the established budget, unless budget overages are specifically
approved by the Director of Marketing.

Contract Solution:
By using e-mail and web-based programs such as

*ConceptShare, I can continue to coordinate these design projects from a distance. I currently maintain
relationships with print vendors and designers at a distance so physical presence is not necessary for this
to continue. For meetings with program directors and the marketing team, I would use a free video and
phone conferencing service called *Skype. We usually meet once or twice to discuss changes to their
marketing materials and the rest of the process is continued through e-mail and ConceptShare.

Role #2: Special Marketing Project Manager
Responsibility:

Maintain a collection of updated, appropriate marketing images.
Expectations:

e Images needed for marketing materials and websites are anticipated and acquired.

Contract Solution:

I am still able to complete this task remotely by doing images searches on web databases such as
*iStockphoto.com. If the experiment with the *Seminar Photo Contest fares well, I could also manage

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014014
