purchasing support, $?? software servers. video conferencing, tax oversight.

Ibelieve You should rapidly address trustees , gift trust, succesion, wills of debra and
children, , monetization events , cash flow. ete Ican ofcourse share my experiences with you on each
issue.

With regard the more pressing issue I am uncertain of just how to proceed. I am torn, as my very strong
inclination is not to be involved at all. It is extremely time consuming, delicate, fraught with many pitfall many
that will make you very upset and a major pain in the ass. I wrote you months ago that the quality of the people
involved need to be upgraded. ( lucky for me these last issues arose way before the begining of my
involvement ) Iam also aware however of my overarching friendship obligations of ok, -given all the
complexities who else can do it? problem.

Your family office needs a daddy. children with good intentions are running around , sniping , nitpicking with
little direction. As a stopgap measure I am suggesting , we put in Larry Delson to take charge Everyone would
report to him. eileen included. He would however work for me. this is not, by a long shot my first choice as I

prefer only being responsible and standing behind my own personal work ( ie the word DONE will no longer
be transmitted to reflect status stated by others )

With no commitment on my part whatsoever, to do it. So far as I have failed in my attempt in trying to
think through the problem creatively . My organizations handling of the more complex isssues I believe you
might find very costly, very ! (however many structures available some risk sharing, maybe risk caps ,etc ) but
would require my teams doing the work , not yours. Ada should be only a trust, grat administrator. not sure
what role you prefer for Eileen as you hired her initially to oversee investments. whether Rich your controller
stays or not, is not urgent. having Tom report to a new person,- is. coordination with Suydam Kathy gregory,
I would suggest limiting to one person. The increasing public profile needs to be taken into consideration.

talk later..

Date: Sun, Dec 28, 2014 at 5:18 AM
Subject: jobs ahead
To: Brad Wechsler

Melanie Spinella po Ada Clapp

1. review accounting system. Book keeping softaware. _ staff, ( senior accountant ) methods on line banking,
brokerage. cash mgmt. airplane reimbursement. boat sale. art purchases sales use and sales tax. tax

filings FBAR FATCA, gaming commsion, pfics, insurance . uk co law.

2. review docs for TRA BRH grats, trusts, heritage will, insurance, art lending. medical, springing

powers. two fire drill books. one needed for injury. other for death

3 review bills. boats , planes, legal, (PW, McFarlands all outside. legal and accounting. Toms bills over
400k . house projects. south ny ben

4 cashflow projections tax projections , interaction with Apollo accounting tax, Phaidon ,art space ,and
Regan. legal accounting. audit

5. children meetings , review to date and allocations

6 review all role in payables. files scanned, no paper

7 review invesmtents for tax basis and unrecognized gain

8 schedule of all hedge funds . redeemables commitments etc.

9 charities pledges strucutre, staff ,

Date: Fri, Feb 20, 2015 at 5:52 AM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella a,  t——SiSY

1)pg1 A” unequal shares. pg 23 removal of trustees  absolute. dont be confused with abiltiy to set up
seperate trusts, , 2) I am reachable this afternoon in europe. oncell. 3. on another note . -our financial
agreement ended months ago . seperate from the art partnership (which i was told yesterday to my
amazement is still not funded) . 1am obligated to complete ? the time 1 have dedicated since oct/ dec has
been spent mainly as your friend. tom, brad though i am fully cognizant of my responsiblities. I will try to
help find people. Iam not good at human resources. howevr If I don;t think they are good enough for you. I

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023298
