Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 539-1 Filed 01/06/17 Page 3 of 9
6/14/2016 Case 1:15°orO7aSGaRwS7 Dersartret Pne1m toBileid G4 5/1 PalPywOBref 9

Lindsay Lohan flashes
her cleavage ina low-
cut lilac number as she
enjoys romantic day in
Zurich with fiancé Egor
Tarabasov
Lovely in lilac

Back in time to
celebrate! Kim
Kardashian and Kanye
West arrive inLA on eve
of daughter North's third
birthday
Whirlwind 24-hour tip

Bathing suit babes!
Playboy vet Kendra
Wilkinson shows off
chest in one piace while
celebrating 31st
birthday with ‘number
one ho’ in Arizona

Sean Penn's son
Hopper, 22, reveals his
famous father wanted to
name him ‘Steak’ due ta
his love of red meat
His mom Robin Wright
wouldnt have gone for it

New romance for
Ruby? Rose ‘dating’
businesswoman Harley
Gusman after the pair
were Spotted cozying up
ona date in Hollywood
Off the market?

Was Patrick Swayze a
victim of domestic
abuse? Wife denies
claims she beat the
Dirty Dancing star
throughout their 34-year
marriage - and aven
when he was dying

Advertisement

First meating: Prince Andrew puts his arms around 17-year-old Virginia, cantre

On one of those occasions Virginia Roberts was subsequently paid $15,000 (£9,400). Her shocking
account of her four years as Epstein’s personal masseuse is supported by court documents, an
eyewitness, photographs and flight details of Epstein’s private jets.

One picture, said to have been taken by Epstein during Andrew's first encounter with the girl in
March 2001 and published today by The Mail on Sunday, shows the Prince with his arm around her
waist.

This is not the first time the Duke of York’s judgment and choice of associates have been

questioned. He appears to relish the company of super-rich oil billionaires from the Middle East,
North Africa and the former Soviet Union.

The peculiar sale of his former marital home to a Kazakh businessman for £15 million after it had
languished unsold for five years at £12 million has never been satisfactorily explained.

In the recent leak of American diplomatic cables it was revealed that he had criticised an official
corruption investigation into the huge Al-Yamamah arms deal between Britain and Saudi Arabia,
while he is also said to be close to Saif Al-Islam Gaddafi, son of the beleaguered Libyan president,
and may have had a role in the early release of Lockerbie bomber Abdelbaset Al Megrahi.

But it is Andrew's friendship with Epstein, whom H

he has known since at least 2000, and with While on the streets, |
Epstein’s confidante Ghislaine Maxwell, daughter i

of the late disgraced newspaper baron Robert s | ept with men fo r

Maxwell, that gives most concern. mon ey. | was a
He was first seen with the pair on holiday in “Tt
Thailand, and was pictured cavorting with paed Oop hile's dream

Ghislaine at a Halloween fetishthemed party in

hitp:/Avww.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-1361039/Prince-Andrew-girl-17-sex-offender-friend-flew-Britain-meet-him.html 2/34

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014661
