I have always been impressed by Mike's professionalism and his leadership, said Rick Lincoln, chief of the
Lantana Police Department and a Palm Beach County cop for 32 years.

The town of Palm Beach has a very professional police department. We all consider Mike to be our peer and a
man of integrity.”

Juno Beach Police Chief H.C. Clark II agreed. Although he doesn't know Reiter well, he has met with him on
countywide law enforcement issues. I've never seen him lose his cool. I've never seen anything but a
professional demeanor from him.

Reiter joined the Palm Beach Police Department in 1981, leaving a $20,000-a-year patrol job at the University
of Pittsburgh. His personnel jacket shows consistently excellent job evaluations.

Posh Palm Beach is no hotbed of crime, and in his first year on the job, a resident confined to his home with a
sick child thanked Reiter for delivering a few Cokes to the house. Reiter refused payment for the beverages.
Another resident thanked Reiter for shutting off his car's headlights in his driveway, saying a valet must have
been at fault.

Reiter worked everything from road patrol to organized crime, vice and narcotics. And he's no novice at
investigations involving the island's rich and famous. He was the lead detective probing the drug overdose
death of David Kennedy in 1984. He also was one of the officers who worked the investigation of William
Kennedy Smith, who was charged in 1991 — and later acquitted — with raping a woman at the Kennedy
family compound in Palm Beach.

Reiter, who has a master's degree in human resource development from Palm Beach Atlantic University, also
has attended the FBI National Academy in Quantico, Va., and management courses at Harvard. He's been
active in countywide interagency law enforcement organizations and has a top secret national security
clearance.

He has a perspective that's broader than just addressing the needs of the town,” said Town Manager Peter
Elwell, who promoted Reiter from assistant chief to chief in March 2001. Reiter makes more than $144,000 as
the town's top cop. Elwell thinks he's worth it.

He's very businesslike, very straightforward. He's not easily agitated or flamboyant. He's about the work,
Elwell said. I think that his service as chief has been outstanding in five-plus years.

De ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee a

The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of

Jeffrey Epstein

Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited
and may be unlawful. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and
destroy this communication and all copies thereof,
including all attachments.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021763
