So CO NSN DH WO F&F WO NO

NO wO NH NO HN HN HN HKD HNO ee Be Re RO Re RO ROO eee
eo NIN NHN UA Fk WO NY -&§ OD BO WO NN HDB A Ff WD NYO KF CO

Case 5:16-cv-00797-DMG-KS Document1 Filed 04/26/16 Page3of6 Page ID#:3

11. On the third occasion involving the Defendant, Donald J. Trump, the Plaintiff, Katie Johnson
was forced to engage in an unnatural lesbian sex act with her fellow minor and sex slave, Maria Doe
age 12, for the sexual enjoyment of Defendant Trump. After this sex act, both minors were forced
to orally copulate Defendant Trump by placing their mouths simultaneously on his erect penis until
he achieved sexual orgasm. After zipping up his pants, Defendant Trump physically pushed both
minors away while angrily berating them for the poor quality of their sexual performance.

12. On the fourth and final sexual encounter with the Defendant, Donald J. Trump, the Plaintiff,
Katie Johnson, was tied to a bed by Defendant Trump who then proceeded to forcibly rape Plaintiff
Johnson. During the course of this savage sexual attack, Plaintiff Johnson loudly pleaded with
Defendant Trump to “please wear a condom. Defendant Trump responded by violently striking
Plaintiff Johnson in the face with his open hand and screaming that he would do whatever he
wanted as he refused to wear protection. After achieving sexual orgasm, the Defendant, Donald J.
Trump put his suit back on and when the Plaintiff, Katie Johnson, in tears asked Defendant Trump
what would happen if he had impregnated her, Defendant Trump grabbed his wallet and threw
some money at her and screamed that she should use the money “to get a fucking abortion.

13. On the first occasion involving the Defendant, Jeffrey E. Epstein, the Plaintiff, Katie Johnson,
was forced to disrobe into her bra and panties and to give a full body massage to Defendant Epstein
while he was completely naked. During the massage, Defendant Epstein physically forced Plaintiff
Johnson to touch his erect penis with her bare hands and to clean up his ejaculated semen after he
achieved sexual orgasm.

14. On the second occasion involving the Defendant, Jeffrey Epstein, the Plaintiff, Katie Johnson
was again forced to disrobe into her bra and panties while giving Defendant Epstein a full body
massage while he was completely naked. The Defendant, Donald J. Trump, was also present as he
was getting his own massage from another minor, Jane Doe, age 13, Defendant Epstein forced
Plaintiff Johnson to touch his erect penis by physically placing her bare hands upon his sex organ

and again forced Plaintiff Johnson to clean up his ejaculated semen after he achieved sexual orgasm.

CV-126 (09/09) PLEADING PAGE FOR A COMPLAINT

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029262
