Dubai model will go down the river. I am fully aware that some financial and economic circles were not happy
with the progress we managed to achieve on various tracks including investment, aviation industry, IT and
global competition in mana ging and financial markets.

The UAE has proven remarkable competency in addressing difficult questions imposed by the global financial
crisis. I strongly believe it won’t be long before international focus will shift from what is claimed to be
Dubai’s shortcomings to Dubai’s and the UAE’s overall success in passing this difficult test.

By Al-Sharq al-Awsat Daily

Almost a year ago, and during your visit to Asia, you warned against the global financial
crisis. Why precautionary measures have not been undertaken to avoid negative impacts
of this crisis on both Dubai and UAE?

The crisis have taken the whole world by surprise and evolved in tremendous pace. During my visit to Asia, I
had warned against turmoil in financial and commodities markets, marginalizing the role of international
financial institutions and potentials that these institutions fall short from fulfilling their expected roles ina
world where all international markets became very much related, turning into one huge global market which
does not follow any international rules, regulations or supervision.

I had urged leading world economies to move swiftly and reconsider roles and mechanisms of international
financial establishments and institutions, especially the International Monetary Fund -- and that what exactly
the G20 summit did last month earlier this month.

Regarding the precautionary measures, I believe that no preventive measures neither i1n the UAE or any other
country in the world, would have provided the desired immunity from the ramifications of the global financial
meltdown. The UAE’s solid economic structure, efficient performing establishments, adoption of a balanced
model of conservative banking policies overseen by the Federal Central Bank and liberal economic approach,
were the key elements that enhanced the country’s ability to survive the negative implications of the global
crisis and prevented any case of bankruptcy in any of the country’s banks or major corporations. The impact of
the crisis on our economy was significant during the last quarter of 2008, yet it was not as harsh as on other
major economies.

By Al-Sharq al-Awsat Daily

Despite Dubai government officials repeated rebuffs of bailing out some companies to
Abu Dhabi, speculations in that regard have never stopped. Isn’t normal for the
Emirates to cooperate among themselves to overcome such difficult times?

Cooperation among the seven Emirates has never stopped and they don’t wait for crises to show this
cooperation. There are several joint ventures between Abu Dhabi and Dubai. Founders and stakeholders of
most of the UAE Public Joint Stock companies are from Dubai and Abu Dhabi. Abu Dhabi investors have huge
investments in Dubai and vice versa. Dubai has always welcomed business and investments from across the
UAE.

Regarding the speculations you referred to in your question, they will always remain just speculations. I believe
they are meant to be evil gossip as part of a vicious campaign against Dubai model. These speculations were not
only refuted by Dubai government officials but also by His Highness the President of the UAE last March.

By Al-Sharq al-Awsat Daily

Do you believe that the UAE economy will contract this year? Or will it achieve certain

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024942
