so much for sending me here to learn this. You are going to love my new
area of expertise! | am having such an amazing time over here!!” | had to
let him know how much I appreciated what he had done for me and he
loved the head swell that it would make him feel as well. Hating the
thought of going back to him, I wasn’t going to let that put a damper on
my spirits while I was still out there. It was my time to party harder than
ever before. Every night was a new adventure for me. Chang-Mai was a
maze of places to get lost in and the vibrant city was my playground. The
way | saw it this was my last chance to get out and break free, letting
loose my inner girl it felt so good to take the lead of my own life.

Chapter 21

It was an average evening getting ready in front of the bathroom mirror
on just an average Sunday, though unbeknownst to us girls as we sat
there chatting away carelessly, this night was already written in the stars
for me. It was a very long time ago now when I was still a young child
that I sat looking up to those same stars from my bedroom window with
my hands pressed tightly together as I cried for God to hear my prayers.
All 1 asked him for was death. My precious life was already such a
hopeless battle that I felt too small to fight alone for. Begging him to
deliver me from this cruel world I would pray for all of my pain would to
away for good. My only clause in my prayers was the possibility that
there was somebody in this wide world that I was meant to love,
something much bigger than I could have even imagined yet. This
invocation of mine was forgotten about long ago now, until tonight.

I wish [ had known that night I sat crying beneath the stars that it
would all be different one day and that [ hadn’t sold myself short to the
accustomed lifestyle 1 was brought up to believing was acceptable. It was
this night my very soul was about to cosmically collide with the man I
was always meant for, the man my heart already belonged to and would
know from the instant we met. This night would be the first day to the
beginning of my new life to come.

I blushed my cheeks and put on my mascara before me and my
girlfriend headed out to hit the town. We were dressed to kill and looking
for something to do when we ran into a few of our class mates at one of
our favorite drinking spots. They were meeting up for some drinks before
a Muay-Thai kickboxing tournament. It sounded like fun when they
invited us along to watch it with them. The massive crowd lined the street
where the fight was being held and once I got inside the arena it was push

Li Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004254

and shove to try to find a spot to watch from. The friends that we were
hanging out with were meeting up with another group of guys that were
training for the kickboxing tournaments that we were watching.

Then it happened it was the first moment I laid eyes on the man that
would love me for the rest of my life. I wasn’t expecting the most
amazing time of my life to happen right there and then but it did and I
would never be the same again. Destiny fell right smack into my lap and
there was no stopping it! It wasn’t just his smoldering appeal that was
obvious at first sight it was the entire package of mannerism and chivalry
that made him stand out of the crowd. Stepping right out of the pages of
the fairytales I used to read, he was nothing like | had ever come to know
before.

Watching him from a close distance he was playfully shadow boxing
one of the guys from my massage class and it was at that moment that
this handsome stranger first caught me staring at him. From top to toe this
athletically built man was intriguing to watch, | couldn’t take my eyes off
him like [ was magnetically drawn to his power of attraction. He further
interested me when he wasn’t acting like the majority of harping dogs
that would jump at the eyes I was giving him now. Instead he coyly
played hard to get, making me work for any conversation with him. The
fight started and the men were going bezerk, screaming at the fighters in
the ring offering either fighter their support or discrimination depending

on whom they were batting for. It was like watching a primitive scene out

of the days when the cavemen ruled the earth but it was as equally
alluring to watch unfold, the sweat, the blood and the absolute brut
fascination of it all.

After the fight and all of the men revved up from the fight, I suggested
that we all head to the pizza joint in front of the Princess Hotel where |
was staying for a late night snack. I made it my goal to make myself
known to this appealing stranger. In the tuk-tuk on the way there [ made
sure I sat next to Robbie. Scooting my knees closer and closer to him on
the short ride he continued his chase by moving further away from me, a
game of cat and mouse that I loved. When he answered back the array of
my questions he had the cutest Aussie accent that drove me absolutely
wild.

Gradually we got to know each other better over a pie of peperoni
pizza and two can’s of coke. Too me he might as well have been the only
other person in the restaurant, he knew he had my undivided attention and
I think he liked it. There was no one like him that [ had ever met before
and I knew there was no other who could make me feel the way that I felt
at the first sight of him. Being charming and suave was all an accidental
tront. It was easy to read him. Immediately it wasn’t hard to see his sweet
side, holding the door and pulling out my chair at the restaurant, 1 was

122

C Copyright Protected Material

GIUFFRLEN04255,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021205
