Pyes told the author that Brunel “ranks among the sleaziest people in the fashion industry. We’re talking
about a conveyor belt, not a casting couch. Hundreds of girls were not only harassed but molested.” Now
The Daily Beast has learned that Epstein had made a $1 million wire transfer to Brunel’s offshore bank
account in September 2004, just as he was setting up MC2. Whether this was a gift or a loan ora
backdoor investment in the new venture is unknown. A French citizen who managed to avoid giving
evidence in the Epstein investigation, Brunel declined to comment on any of this, as does Fuller. Asked
in April of Brunel’s activities, Epstein said “I’m 100 percent convinced that he doesn’t traffic children.”
(Brunel has never been charged.)

An American fashion designer who booked her girls through MC2 says they were very young and very
beautiful; many were from Eastern Europe and spoke little English. A former bookkeeper in the agency’s
Miami office, who also arranged visas for girls traveling to the U.S., confirmed that MC2 girls became
frequent guests on Epstein’s private jets.

Pilot logs obtained in the civil suits show that some of the named plaintiffs were on the flight manifests.
Other times, the pilot would just list the other passengers plus female.”

Posted 02 August 2010 - 12:47 AM

Jeffrey Epstein, Jew Billionaire Pedophile, Child Trafficker Goes Free..WoW! 20 year old Hearsay is enough to destroy catholic priest. What happened here to

the justice system?

Conchita Sarnoff

http://www.thedailyb...hile- goes-free/

Conchita Sarnoff has developed multimedia communication programs for Fortune 500 companies and
has produced three current events debate television programs, The Americas Forum, From Beirut to
Kabul, and a segment for The Oppenheimer Report. She is writing a book about child trafficking in
America.

Hedge fund mogul and sex offender Jeffrey Epstein, who went free this week, lived in a depraved world
of thrice-daily massages, pornographic artwork, and hush money—that’s only now being revealed.
Conchita Sarnoff follows up on her investigation of the legal wrangling that saved him from a long
prison term and reports on the sordid details in part two of her exclusive exposé. Also:

* Palm Beach’s police chief objected to Epstein’s “special treatment” and gave The Daily Beast an
exclusive look at his nine-hour deposition about the investigation.

¢ Earlier versions of the U.S attorney’s charges, including a sealed 53-page indictment, could have landed
Epstein in prison for 20 years.

* Victims alleged that Epstein molested underage girls from South America, Europe, and the former
Soviet republics, including three 12-year-old girls brought over from France as a birthday gift.

¢ The victims also alleged trips out of state and abroad on Epstein’s private jets, which would be
evidence of sex trafficking—a much more serious federal crime than the state charges Epstein was

convicted of.

* Epstein’s attorneys investigated members of the Palm Beach Police Department, while others ordered
private investigators to follow and intimidate the victims’ families; one even posed as a police officer.

* Then-Attorney General Alberto Gonzales told The Daily Beast that he “would have instructed the
Justice Department to pursue justice without making a political mess.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022254
