Exactly. I looked up the statistics, black kids in the US have slower cognitive development (and never catch
up), which the study of course attributed to social factors without any evidence, and they had faster motor
development! I suspect this means their brains are slower at learning high-level concepts, because the low-
level structures are optimized for a shorter time. But they will keep the lead in motor development, because it
is easier to learn, and they have more time and attention to practice once they get the structures in place.

It could also be that they have an additional set of learning directives in place that adapts them better to a
more hunting/running style of life, whereas the Europeans had to adapt for identifying long-term seasonal
patterns, delayed gratification for agriculture etc.

and CONCEPTS could be layer to layer communicaiton. . are gender differences also a matter of time ,
and structure of interactions. .

I suspect gender differences are mostly motivational, i.e. we have a reward system for all the different social
and cognitive needs, which makes us receive different kinds of pleasure and pain, thereby pay attention and
learn. You cannot learn what does not attract your attention. Women tend to find abstract systems, conflicts
and mechanisms intrinsically boring. Most women in computer science do not write programs because they
enjoy solving puzzles, but because they want to help people, get approval etc. There are almost no women in
math, because it does not help people or yield social attention.

Men tend to find elaborate social relations boring. If there is no pleasure in observing and empathizing with
people, one will not have good social cognition.

IQ is not the only meaningful difference. Chinese pay an inordinate amount of attention to authority. I suspect
historically., the authorities tended to kill them a lot if they did not. Jews tend be intellectually independent
and anti-authoritarian, which might make them creative and inventive in ways that are hard to find in Asia.

At the moment, I think speed/quality of brain development plus motivational system are the key to
understanding both mind and individual differences. Important part of human language might be the result in
a motivational need to discover/invent grammatical structure, which as a side effect makes us interested in
music.

It would mean that Chomsky’s life long hypothesis, that people have a special circuit for grammatical
language, is wrong. They might be GENERAL learners, just like Gorillas, but with a strong motivational urge
to build grammatical structure, which the brain simply invents (there are only a few ways in which a natural
language can work). That is much easier to wire into a brain than a specific circuit.

imy self believe that african music, westrn music , chinese music are a window into the the structure of
those layers. . western rigid, african primitve , chinese nature based,. I belive that synphoic movments
best describe your layering. | they open with a basic simple melody, , after it is learned , it is repeated and 
developed , inverted, distorted, related, etc. the development stage take a long time. then there is a
recapitlaltion of the whole. and its inter and intra actions. . african musci has lots of beats. and little
development. - no accident, it mirrors their learning process.

Interesting question if music is somehow indicative of genetically defined prefs, but I am not sure. It could be
path effects, starting in culture.

re taboo

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026400
