224

the jewels in their crown of omniscience. “ Snowden also suggested that to avoid being
automatically “targeted” by the NSA, one should avoid “jihadi forums.” These tips for evading
U.S. and British surveillance, far from being an off-hand leakage of information, were supplied by
him in written answers to interrogatives sent to him by Laura Poitras and Jacob Appelbaum while
Snowden was still on the NSA payroll in May 2013. If he intended to damage the NSA’s ability
to monitor unsuspecting individuals abroad, he clearly succeeded. Just as Robert Hanssen had
compromised the NSA’s interception of communication at the Soviet Embassy in the 1990s,
Snowden compromised the NSA’s interception of Jihadist targets on the Internet.

The Snowden intervention was soon felt by the CIA. “Within weeks of the leaks,” writes
Michael Morell, then CIA deputy director. He notes that “Terrorist organizations around the
world were already starting to modify their actions in light of what Snowden disclosed.
Communication sources dried up.” What heightened Morell’s concern about this loss of
intelligence sources was the discovery a 26-page document on an ISIS computer in Syria
indicating that the terrorist group had been considering using plague germs and other biological
weapons on foreign targets. The NSA was also seeing the Snowden effect on the war on
terrorists. In 2013, the FBI, CIA, and DIA had compiled a watch list of some 400 foreign
terrorist targets for NSA’s PRISM program. Up until June 6, many of these targets frequently
used Internet services, such as Twitter, Facebook, and Xbox live, to send what they believed
would be hidden messages. After the PRISM story broke in the Washington Post on June 6, the
NSA “saw one after another target go dark,” according to a senior executive involved in that
surveillance. In 2014, Admiral Rogers, the new NSA director, was even blunter. Asked whether
or not the disclosures by Snowden had reduced the NSA’s ability to pursue terrorist, he
answered: “Have I lost capability that we had prior to the revelations? Yes.”

In Moscow, Snowden insists that not a single death has been traced back to his disclosures. I
agree that it would be unfair to jump to the conclusion that he is responsible for any single event,
such as the massacre in Paris in November 2015, because we cannot know whether or not a
jihadist involved in the event, such as Abdelhamid Abaaoud in the case of Paris, would have used
the Internet if Snowden had not exposed the interception of it by the NSA. But however sincere
were his intentions, Snowden cannot escape his responsibility for his actions. He totally and
purposefully compromised an intelligence operation that could prevent such villainous attacks.

//

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020376
