35

and dominated by the Chinese Communist Party. Members are expected to adhere to the
disciplines and goals of the Party and work to strengthen China and the Party’s rule of
China. Members of the CPPCC are expected to write reports about how their activities have
aligned with China’s interests and to detail their work on China’s behalf.”* The potential
exploitation of Chinese American members in this body by the Chinese government not
only risks harming the interests of the United States but also has the potential to harm the
security, reputation, and welfare of these Chinese Americans.

A similar quandary could present itself to those Chinese Americans who have chosen

to accept positions as consultants for another united front organization, the All-China
Federation of Returned Overseas Chinese, which also serves the Party’s interests. In 2018,
twelve representatives from the United States, including wealthy businessmen and civic
leaders, were listed as advisors of the Federation’s 10 congress. The Chinese government
picked them in recognition of their prominence and efforts in advocating positions friendly
to Beijing.”

To engender a sense of close support, state-owned Chinese media outlets routinely report
about such contacts made between prominent Chinese Americans and senior Chinese
officials. There are literally hundreds of such reports in the Chinese-language press
about prominent Chinese Americans escorting leading figures from China’s united front
bureaucracy in the United States or being hosted by them in China.*° In May 2017, Li
Kexin, the deputy chief of mission at the Chinese embassy in Washington, praised the
Peaceful Reunification Council's DC chapter for holding a “peaceful reunification forum”
in Washington and for opposing Taiwan’s independence.”’ Officials from China have also
traveled freely to the United States to take part in conferences and activities designed
to further China’s influence operations in the United States. For example, United Front
officials traveled to the United States in November 2016 for the council’s annual executive
meeting, during which the council pledged to renew its efforts to “oppose Taiwan’s
independence.””8

Conclusion and Recommendations

As US citizens, Chinese Americans enjoy the same constitutional rights of freedom of speech,
association, and political participation as everyone else, and their exercise of these rights is
fully legitimate and protected by the Constitution and law. What’s more, it is incumbent

on the United States government and American society as a whole not to demonize
Chinese Americans for their feelings for and pride in China. However, it is also important
that all American citizens be aware that such feelings can sometimes be exploited by an
authoritarian regime to advance its goals and interests. Here it is not Chinese Americans who
are at fault for having an attachment to their “motherland,” but it is the Chinese Communist
Party for cynically attempting to use Chinese Americans to further its own interests in the
process making overseas Chinese communities vulnerable to distrust.

Section 3

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020494
