4.2.12
WC: 191694

more complex and troubling realities of the Harvard College program as it surely must operate in
practice. (I have no inside knowledge of how the Harvard College admissions process actually
works; my speculations derive from reading the newspapers and from having publicly debated
several Harvard officials on the Bakke issue.)

For example, Justice Powell was anything but clear about the degree to which an applicant’s race
may be considered in university admissions decisions. At different points in his opinion, he
articulates different formulations of the limits on explicit consideration of race in attempts to
produce a diverse student body. He says that race must be “simply one element—to be weighed
fairly against other elements—in the selection process”; that a school must place “all pertinent
elements of diversity...on the same footing, for consideration, although not necessarily according
them the same weight”; and that a school must “adhere to a policy of individual comparisons.”

Let us assume that Blank University seeks diversity by trying to include musicians, farm boys,
Oklahomans among its entering class, but that it does not instruct its admissions officers to aim
for a specified minimum number of musicians, farm boys and Oklahomans in each entering class.
May Blank University direct its admissions officers—either explicitly or implicitly—to make
certain that the number of blacks or Chicanos should not go beneath a certain approximate
percentage in the class? Would that put race on a different “footing” than the other elements of
diversity?

The answer to that question may well turn on whether one looks for legal guidance to the
description of the Harvard program as quoted in Mr. Justice Powell’s opinion, or to the real
world operation of the Harvard program as it probably works in practice. The following
description certainly implies that race is not treated differently from other elements of diversity:

“In Harvard College admissions the Committee has not set target-quotas for the number of blacks, or of
musicians, football players, physicists or Californians to be admitted in a given year. At the same time the
Committee is aware that if Harvard College is to provide a truly heterogeneous environment that reflects
the rich diversity of the United States, it cannot be provided without some attention to numbers. It would
not make sense, for example, to have 10 or 20 students out of 1,100 whose homes are west of the
Mississippi. Comparably, 10 or 20 black students could not begin to bring to their classmates and to each
other the variety of points of view, backgrounds and experiences of blacks in the United States. Their
small numbers might also create a sense of isolation among the black students themselves and thus make
it more difficult for them to develop and achieve their potential. Consequently, when making its decisions,
the Committee on Admissions is aware that there is some relationship between numbers and achieving the
benefits to be derived from a diverse student body, and between numbers and providing a reasonable
environment for those students admitted.

A closer look at the admissions program in practice might well reveal that the Harvard admissions
officers, though interested in assuring geographic, occupational and musical diversity, really pay
little or no attention to numbers: it would be no great crisis if one particular entering class at
Harvard College had few or even no violinists, Oklahomans, or farm boys. (Football quarterbacks
or basketball centers might be another thing altogether.) But these very same admissions officers
may well be under instructions—explicit or implicit—to pay close attention to the number of
blacks so as to assure that the proportion does not fall below a certain approximate floor.

298

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017385
