38

When a young man at a town-hall meeting in Kyrgyzstan asks Hillary
which designers she wears, she answers immediately: “Would you
ever ask a man that question?” The crowd of young people laughed
and applauded. Hillary and Bill like to vacation at Oscar de la
Renta’s Punta Cana resort, in the Dominican Republic, but she
wasn’t about to mention that, or venture that Vera Wang designed
Chelsea’s wedding dress. Like Albright and Rice, Hillary wants
women’s issues to be substantive. “All the young men on our staff
don’t seem to think they’re important,” Hillary remarked archly one
day in 2009, an early sign of the schisms to come. To reinforce the
message she named Verveer, her former chief of staff in the White
House, to be the first ambassador-at-large for global women’s issues.
Even amid the Sturm und Drang of the Middle East and North Africa,
she’s liable to leave her imprint in the same areas that brought her
into public life in the first place—helping women and children and
strengthening civil society. It’s a straight line from the Children’s
Defense Fund, where she worked as a young law-school graduate, to
Foggy Bottom. From micro-credit to food assistance to education,
Hillary knows that women in underdeveloped villages usually spend
aid money on their families, while men more often spend it on
themselves, which is a polite way of saying on liquor and prostitutes.
Seemingly minor changes can yield huge benefits. “As we meet ... as
many as three billion people are gathering around open fires or old
and inefficient stoves in small kitchens in poorly ventilated houses,”
Hillary tells a New York philanthropic audience. “As the women
cook, smoke fills their lungs and toxins begin poisoning them and
their children,” she explains before noting that the World Health
Organization estimates that nearly two million people a year—half of
them children—die from pneumonia and other ailments that are likely
connected to this problem, more than twice the number of deaths
from malaria. She has been involved in this cause for years, but now

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024995
