76

have also bankrolled a limited number of American think-tank activities. However,
American think tanks with centers in China have actively engaged in fund-raising
from mainland Chinese sources. With only a few exceptions, American think-tank
analysts do not foresee that Chinese money will become a significant factor in their
work at home any time soon, although because of endemic funding shortages at most
nonprofits, worries about reliance on Chinese money are not unfounded.

Chinese media relentlessly solicit American think-tank scholars’ opinions for
consumption within both the United States and China. At least one outlet pays
participants for their time and makes it clear that criticism of China is unwelcome.
Censorship of written work is common, even expected, so that few interviewees expect
to have their books published in China. American think-tank analysts appear most
annoyed when their work is illegally and/or incorrectly published on Chinese websites.
In most instances, they seek to have the work taken down from the web.

American think-tank analysts have a highly developed understanding of Chinese
efforts to influence their views —whether in the form of heavy-handed criticism

from the Chinese embassy for an article or a proposed meeting with someone like the
Dalai Lama, a Hong Kong dissident, or via more subtle efforts that arise through joint
projects funded by Chinese partners. To the last one, all interviewees for this study
indicated that they refuse to be pressured into changing their practices. Some
think-tank scholars acknowledge that they try to be diplomatic in their public discourse
on China—but insist that they do not change their overall message, only their tone

or choice of wording. Some argue that they save their tough language to deliver the
most important messages. But some also admit to acceding to Chinese demands on
how to present Taiwanese officials in public settings—such as in the announcements
of a meeting on the think tank’s website—but then adopting the Taiwanese preference
during the meeting itself. The general view—although not shared by all—was that
seeking to avoid unnecessarily insulting or upsetting the Chinese is the better strategy.
But most agreed that the arena of acceptable parlance was shrinking and that pressures
were growing.

As an antidote, the American think-tank community should understand that its position
is one with significant leverage. Chinese officials and scholars seek to use think tanks
as venues for visiting Chinese officials, as legitimating partners for Chinese-supported
research projects that will influence the American narrative, and as important sources
of information concerning the changing US political landscape. The American scholars
should celebrate their principles of independence, use the leverage their institutional
frameworks provide to resist incursion, and constructively push for greater reciprocity.
Some specific recommendations include:

Think Tanks

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020535
