5) Your above accounts were also linked with Mr Leslie Wexner.

6) You are known to be or have previously been closely associated with Bill Clinton, Prince Andrew and
Kevin Spacey.

7) You have made substantial contributions to the Clintons’ philanthropic causes. Tax reform campaigners
have previously been critical of those who engage in public life or the political process while avoiding or
evading tax. Hilary Clinton herself, speaking in 2012, noted the importance of elites paying a substantial share
of tax: One of the issues that I have been preaching about around the world is collecting taxes in an equitable
manner — especially from the elites in every country.”

It is intended shortly to publish the results of our survey in both the US and the UK.

As responsible journalists acting in the public interest, we would first like to give you the opportunity to
comment.

If we do not hear from you by 18:00 on Monday 12th January 2015 (preferably by email to
Ls we shall proceed on the basis that you do not wish to comment on or amend

our information.

But we have approached you in a straightforward fashion and hope you will take this opportunity to respond if
you wish. Your substantive responses to each of our numbered points will be carefully considered and
published if appropriate.

(For the avoidance of doubt, we do not normally regard any generalised assertion of “inaccuracies” as a
substantive response; nor any generalised statement that the holders acted on advice. Neither will we regard as
substantive any comment that only refers to the present state of affairs and not to the past.)

We are, of course, happy to discuss directly any concerns you may have.
We would be most grateful if you would acknowledge receipt of this letter. This will save us from chasing.
Yours faithfully,

David Pegg
The Guardian
Kings Place
90 York Way
London

N1 9GU

|:

Visit theguardian.com. On your mobile and tablet, download the Guardian iPhone and Android apps
theguardian.com/guardianapp and our tablet editions theguardian.com/editions. Save up to 57% by subscribing to the
Guardian and Observer - choose the papers you want and get full digital access. Visit subscribe.theguardian.com

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030337
