16.6 Issues with Virtual Preschool Engineering 305

that important from the point of view of humanlike cognitive development. We suggest that
the key features of naive physics and folk psychology enumerated above can be mastered by an
AGI in BlocksNBeadsWorld in spite of its imitations, and that — together with an appropriate
AGI design — this probably suffices for creating an AGI with the inductive biases constituting
humanlike intelligence.

To drive this point home more thoroughly, consider three potential virtual world scenarios:

1. A world containing realistic fluid dynamics, where a child can pour water back and forth
between two cups of different shapes and sizes, to understand issues such as conservation
of volume

2. A world more like today’s Second Life, where fluids don’t really exist, and things like lakes
are simulated via very simple rules, and pouring stuff back and forth between cups doesn’t
happen unless it’s programmed into the cups in a very specialized way

3. A BlocksNBeadsWorld type world, where a child can pour masses of beads back and forth
between cups, but not masses of liquid

Our qualitative judgment is that Scenario 3 is going to allow a young AI to gain the same es-
sential insights as Scenario 1, whereas Scenario 2 is just too impoverished. I have explored dozens
of similar scenarios regarding different preschool tasks or cognitive development experiments,
and come to similar conclusions across the board. Thus, our current view is that something like
BlocksNBeadsWorld can serve as an adequate infrastructure for an AGI Preschool, supporting
the development of human-level, roughly human-like AGI.

And, if this view turns out to be incorrect, and BlocksNBeads World is revealed as inadequate,
then we will very likely still advocate the conceptual approach enunciated above as a guide for
designing virtual worlds for AGI. That is, we would suggest to explore the hypothetical failure
of BlocksNBeadsWorld via asking two questions:

1. Are there basic naive physics or folk psychology requirements that were missed in creating
the specifications, based on which the adequacy of BlocksNBeadsWorld was assessed?

2. Does BlocksNBeads World fail to sufficiently emulate the real world in respect to some of
the articulated naive physics or folk psychology requirements?

The answers to these questions would guide the improvement of the world or the design of a
better one.

Regarding the practical implementation of BlocksNBeadsWorld, it seems clear that this is
within the scope of modern game engine technology, however, it is not something that could be
encompassed within an existing game or world engine without significant additions; it would
require substantial custom engineering. There exist commodity and open-source physics en-
gines that efficiently carry out Newtonian mechanics calculations; while they might require
some tuning and extension to handle BlocksNBead World, the main issue would be achieving
adequate speed of physics calculation, which given current technology would need to be done
via modifying existing engines to appropriately distribute processing among multiple GPUs.

Finally, an additional avenue that merits mention is the use of BlocksNBeads physics in-
ternally within an AGI system, as part of an internal simulation world that allows it to make
“mind’s eye” estimative simulations of real or hypothetical physical situations. There seems no
reason that the same physics software libraries couldn’t be used both for the external virtual
world that the AGI’s body lives in, and for an internal simulation world that the AGI uses as
a cognitive tool. In fact, the BlocksNBeads library could be used as an internal cognitive tool
by AGI systems controlling physical robots as well. This might require more tuning of the bead

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013221
