including helping to bail out his friend Donald Trump. More recently, he had helped bail
out his friend’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner.

He watched with amusement Trump’s eccentric presidential campaign and brokered the
deal to have Paul Manafort replace Corey Lewandowski after Lewandowski fell out of
favor with Kushner. Then, as confounded as everyone else by the campaign’s continuing
successes, Barrack introduced the future president in warm and personal terms at the
Republican National Convention in July (at odds with its otherwise dark and belligerent
tone).

It was Trump’s perfect fantasy that his friend Tom—an organizational whiz fully aware
of his friend’s lack of interest in day-to-day management—would sign on to run the White
House. This was Trump’s instant and convenient solution to the unforeseen circumstance
of suddenly being president: to do it with his business mentor, confidant, investor, and
friend, someone whom acquaintances of the two men describe as “being one of the best
Donald handlers.” In the Trump circle this was called the “two amigos” plan. (Epstein,
who remained close to Barrack, had been whitewashed out of the Trump biography.)

Barrack, among the few people whose abilities Trump, a reflexive naysayer, didn’t
question, could, in Trump’s hopeful view, really get things running smoothly and let
Trump be Trump. It was, on Trump’s part, an uncharacteristic piece of self-awareness:
Donald Trump might not know what he didn’t know, but he knew Tom Barrack knew. He
would run the business and Trump would sell the product—making American great again.
#MAGA.

For Barrack, as for everybody around Trump, the election result was a kind of beyond-
belief lottery-winning circumstance—your implausible friend becoming president. But
Barrack, even after countless pleading and cajoling phone calls from Trump, finally had to
disappoint his friend, telling him “I’m just too rich.” He would never be able to untangle
his holdings and interests—including big investments in the Middle East—in a way that
would satisfy ethics watchdogs. Trump was unconcerned or in denial about his own
business conflicts, but Barrack saw nothing but hassle and cost for himself. Also, Barrack,
on his fourth marriage, had no appetite for having his colorful personal life—often, over
the years, conducted with Trump—become a public focus.

OOK Ok

Trump’s fallback was his son-in-law. On the campaign, after months of turmoil and
outlandishness (if not to Trump, to most others, including his family), Kushner had
stepped in and become his effective body man, hovering nearby, speaking only when
spoken to, but then always offering a calming and flattering view. Corey Lewandowski
called Jared the butler. Trump had come to believe that his son-in-law, in part because he
seemed to understand how to stay out of his way, was uniquely sagacious.

In defiance of law and tone, and everybody’s disbelieving looks, the president seemed

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019905
