17

opening has been feeble. Even in the most hopeful cases — Tunisia
and Egypt — we may have only a few months in which to prevent the
Arab Spring becoming an Arab fall. The disappointed hopes of that
half of the population that is under 30 would then produce further,
larger immigrant surges to Europe. In their own countries, Islamists
would exploit the chances and the confusion of semi-freedom.

The European-led military intervention in Libya was always likely to
be a slow, difficult grind, but it has painfully exposed Europe's
chronic failure to concentrate its military capabilities. Already, some
of the European powers involved are running short of munitions. You
can understand why U.S. Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates was
scathing about this in Brussels last week. Even enlargement, Europe's
most successful project, is close to stalling. In his victory speech after
the recent Turkish elections, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan
did not even mention the EU. Yes, Croatia will probably join the EU
in 2013, and that's good news. But Croatians might be forgiven for
wondering what exactly they will be joining. Retired prime ministers
and foreign ministers never tire of attributing this faltering of the
European project to the lack of leadership. (Subtext: It was all so
much better when we were in charge.) This is true, but less than half
the story. For although the quality of European leadership is
somewhat poorer than it was a quarter-century ago, the need for it is
greater. Why? Because all the great underlying motivators of the
European project back in the days of Helmut Kohl, Francois
Mitterrand and Jacques Delors, and even more so in the time of the
founding fathers, have faded or disappeared. Those powerful driving
forces included searing personal experiences of war, occupation,
holocaust, fascist and communist dictatorships; the Soviet threat,
catalyzing west European solidarity; generous, energetic American
support for European unification; and a West Germany that was the
mighty engine of European integration, with France on top as the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018101
