Lyndon Johnson ended up—one of the first modern politicians to have found himself on
the wrong end of both mortal and moral politics.)

But now, after little more than seven weeks in office, Trump saw his own predicament
as unique and overwhelming. Like no other president before (though he did make some
allowances for Bill Clinton), his enemies were out to get him. Worse, the system was
rigged against him. The bureaucratic swamp, the intelligence agencies, the unfair courts,
the lying media—they were all lined up against him. This was, for his senior staff, a
reliable topic of conversation with him: the possible martyrdom of Donald Trump.

In the president’s nighttime calls, he kept coming back to how unfair this was, and to
what Tony Blair had said—and others, too! It all added up. There was a plot against him.

Now, it was certainly true that Trump’s closest staff appreciated his volatility, and, to a
person, was alarmed by it. At points on the day’s spectrum of adverse political
developments, he could have moments of, almost everyone would admit, irrationality.
When that happened, he was alone in his anger and not approachable by anyone. His
senior staff largely dealt with these dark hours by agreeing with him, no matter what he
said. And if some of them occasionally tried to hedge, Hope Hicks never did. She agreed
absolutely with all of it.

At Mar-a-Lago on the evening of March 3, the president watched Bret Baier interview
Paul Ryan on Fox. Baier asked the Speaker about a report on the online news site Circa—
owned by Sinclair, the conservative broadcast group—involving allegations that Trump
Tower had been surveilled during the campaign.

On March 4, Trump’s early morning tweets began:

Terrible! Just found out that Obama had my “wires tapped” in Trump Tower just before the
victory. Nothing found. This is McCarthyism! (4:35 a.m.)

Is it legal for a sitting President to be “wire tapping” a race for president prior to an election?
Turned down by court earlier. ANEW LOW! (4:49 a.m.)

How low has President Obama gone to tap my phones during the very sacred election process.

This is Nixon/Watergate. Bad (or sick) guy! (5:02 a.m.)
At 6:40 he called Priebus, waking him up. “Did you see my tweet?” he asked. “We’ve
caught them red-handed!” Then the president held his phone so Priebus could hear the
playback of the Baier show.

He had no interest in precision, or even any ability to be precise. This was pure public
exclamation, a window into pain and frustration. With his misspellings and his use of
1970s lingo—“wire tapping” called up an image of FBI agents crouched in a van on Fifth
Avenue—it seemed kooky and farcical. Of the many tweets that Trump had seemed to
hoist himself by, from the point of view of the media, intelligence community, and
extremely satisfied Democrats, the wiretap tweets had pulled him highest and most left
him dangling in ignorance and embarrassment.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020002
