Andrew Carnegie famously called the dignity of real work. Spicy one dish vegetarian
meals, twice a day meditation and brief stolen naps consumed the rest of the day. |
found myself meditating for longer and longer times, chasing the promised Blue
Pearl that Baba said appeared behind the eyes near the supreme meditative end
point.

Beside care with the _ titration of meditation-induced interpersonal
disconnection, detachment with love is the desired end point of most Hindu and
Buddhist meditative practice, another set of “side effects” of the energy arising early
in the course of too much meditation is called kriyas, spontaneous episodes of
involuntary behaviors and postures of the body such as unprovoked chanting and
writhing and stereotyped hand positions called mudras. Baba told us one of his
kriyas took the form of spontaneous erections that occurred during his first
experiences with deep meditative states. | recall a woman physician and fellow
ashramite in Los Angeles telling me that her panties often got so soaked during
meditation that she worried about being stuck to her cushion. Beyond these initial
somatic overflows of Divine Energy, shakti, emerges a vision of the Blue Pear,
bindu, Baba’s “gift from the Goddess Kundalini.” As he entered this stage, he said
that his mind filled with “joyous contentment.” Jewish mysticism of the 1300’s
acknowledged the neighborhood relations of Eros and the Sacred.

More formal and scientific uses of the word, energy, like all objects of thought
embeddable in a mathematical context, are abstract and relational. In his book,
Mathematics-The Music of Reason, Jean Dieudonne’ treats mathematical objects
as objects of thought. Dieudonne”s book documents the 19 Century transition
from concrete, visualizable, classical mathematics to abstract, nonvisualizable
relational ideas. This conceptual transition to abstract, relational thought objects that
are no longer representable by pictures or accessible to our senses of mathematics
and physics is yet to reach the concrete DNA-causal religionists of modern
molecular biology. In 20 Century mathematics, Dieudonne’ observes that “...the
primary role in theory is played by the relations between mathematical objects
concerned rather than the nature of the objects themselves...these relations are

often the same for objects which appear to be very different and therefore they must

51

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013551
