anything I can get for you?” | asked again and he answered, “No thanks,
we just ate and I’m still full” and they sat down together on the stools at
the kitchen bench.

I got out the shiny red kettle from the cupboard, knowing my way all
too well around the kitchen and put it over the hot stove plate. Turning
around to face them, I thought they were acting peculiar. “So...’Ghislane
started the conversation, ‘““How was the ranch with the Prince?” It was a
natural reaction for me to blush, knowing exactly what she was referring
too. Keeping busy preparing her cup of tea and avoiding eye contact with
both of them I started to unpack the counter where I had been eating, “I
think he had a really good time, he seemed relaxed during the trip and
when we said good-bye to each other he gave me a kiss.” I went on to tell
them what we did together “I took him horseback riding, nowhere to far
just around the property, um... we went swimming in the pool, and of
course I gave him plenty of massages. He had a massage at least couple
times each day really seeming to enjoy his time there.” It’s what they
wanted to hear, not the truth of how disgusting I had felt over the whole
thing but they already knew the truth anyways, it’s what they had trained
me for in the first place.

Like two proud parents they both looked over me with such content.
“Good, you did really well” Jeffrey complimented me. Turning around to
the boiling kettle, I finished Ghislane’s tea for her and the conversation
led on to other subjects. We all ventured up to Jeffrey’s office and out
came the infamous duffle bag that went wherever he did. | was given
close to a thousand dollars for my time in Santa Fe, more than what I
thought anybody at my young age could make for a couple days of work.
‘It was fulfilling the obscene vulgar needs of the so-called privileged that
earned me so much.

Chapter 18

I spent the next few days in New York, venturing out to do some
shopping therapy. I loved the eccentric parts of the city. Every street was
different but the same energetic vibe filled all of them, animated with all
different walks of life. Hanging out at coffee shops reading the newspaper
or a good book was a favorite pastime while in the big apple. Being close
enough to get back to Jeffrey for when he needed me but also far enough
to get away from all of it. Most of the day slipped by without being
missed and [ made my way back to Jeffrey’s.

Making one last pit stop, I walked into an old bookshop to browse at
their assortment of old titles. | wasn’t in any hurry so I took my time

107

[2 Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004240

reading the backs of interesting looking books. I bumped into a girl
looking down the same aisle I was down. “Sorry, I’m so clumsy” she was
apologizing for my mistake. “No, no, it was.my fault, I wasn’t looking at
where I was going. I get so wrapped up with my nose in a book and trip
over my own two feet if I’m not careful enough.” We were both giggling
now and I further introduced myself to her. Her name was Valerie or
Vickie or something like that, anyways she was a student at a school for
hairdressing nearby. Chatting away both young and similar interests in
each other’s choice of reading we found it easy to speak with one another.
She wasn’t from around here only being in the city for the last two
months, her parents hated her being here, but were also supportive in her
big decision to move from the countryside in hopes of her accomplishing
her own dreams. Aside from not having her near them, they just wanted
her to be happy and supported in her big decision to move to the city,
helping her pay some of the way.

She was a pretty girl with cherry red hair and soft white skin. Her long
legs were emphasized by the short flowery dress that complimented her
hourglass figure. She would definitely fit the pro quo for going down in
one of Jeffrey’s little black books. Only imagining the look on his face
upon meeting her I could already see his sly grin spread from ear to ear.
Knowing exactly what he would do with her and the very thought of him
tarnishing a sweet country girl such as her just couldn’t be done. It was
the beginning of a turning point in my life that started with realizing | had
a choice at hand and the effect I could have on one person alone. “I must
be off, but it was really nice to meet you.” Bidding her goodnight and
paying for my books I turned around with one last glance over my
shoulder and said. “Good luck in the city!” Leaving that bookshop was a
small step in a growing abundance of larger strides to come. Turning the
corner onto 72 street | had an undeniable feeling in the pit of my
stomach again but this time it wasn’t the familiar hurl of anxiety I was
used too after I had done something [ had wrong that I had regretted, it
was a new feeling of pride and inner strength. I quite liked it a lot, I held
my head high and smiled on the inside when Jeffrey asked me how my
day was and what I got up to, not mentioning I had let one girl slip on
bye.

The icy winter winds faded away making way for the approaching
sunny days that blossomed the colorful shades of spring. This was my
favorite time of the year. Making the most use of his island we spent
countless days of the increasingly hot days there. A constant array of
visiting guests and plentiful young women to flock around keeping them
entertained was the typical lazy afternoon on Little St. Jeff’s. We ate,
drank, and played under the blue blanket of cloudless skies. To many this
lifestyle could seem idyllic, unless you were like me, the one on the other

108

1] Copyright Protected Material

GIUFFRLO0424 1

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021198
