The Unheeded Warning | 193

an adversary’s intelligence organization that it could not mount any
of its own surprise cyber attacks. It would also make it difficult if not
impossible for adversary services to recruit a spy in the NSA. For
example, the CIA penetration of the SVR in 2010 prevented it from
using its sleeper network against U.S. targets. “The best defense
in this game may be an overwhelming offensive,” a former intel-
ligence official said to me. “But that strategy only works if we can
keep secret sensitive sources.”

Central to this offensive strategy was the NSA’s National Threat
Operations Center in Oahu. It employed threat analysts to surrep-
titiously monitor the secret activities of potential enemies, mainly
China, Russia, and North Korea. A large part of their job was to
make transparent to the United States the hostile activities of the
Russian and Chinese services so that they posed little if any intel-
ligence threat to America. This strategy worked so long as the NSA
guarded itself, but it also raised the issue, as the Roman Juvenal
famously warned, “Quis custodiet ipsos custodes?” (Who will guard
the guards themselves?)

© Less than three years after the NSA had received the Poteyev ©
warning, instead of guarding secrets, Snowden stole them. Despite
all the measures the NSA had taken to protect its vital secrets, a
lowly civilian employee had walked away with the lists of secret
NSA sources in China and Russia and then gone first to China and
then to Russia. In the hands of their intelligence services, these stolen
lists had the potential to totally upend the NSA’s offensive strategy.
Because Russia and China have an intelligence treaty for sharing
such spoils between them when it is to their mutual advantage, it
had to be assumed that if either country had acquired the secrets
from Snowden, they would be shared between them, altering the
balance of power between the communications intelligence services
of the United States and its adversaries.

Following the Snowden breach, both China and Russia had
immense successes in breaking through the defenses of U.S. govern-
ment networks, including the reported breaches in 2014 and 2015 of
U.S. personnel files and background checks. When I asked General
Hayden in June 2015 if these successes were made easier by those
documents compromised by Snowden, he replied, “Even though I

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 193 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019681
