Could U.S. case against sex offender Jeffrey Epstein be reopened? http://www.mypalmbeachpost.com/news/crime--law/fight-reopen-teen-s...

Wellington home with flowers, balloons and a gun, and killed 40-
year-old Marlene Warren. They believed Keen was having an affair
with Michael Warren, Marlene’s widow. They subpoenaed her then-
husband and mother-in-law. The type of balloons found...

Jealous Florida woman stabs boyfriend at block
party, police say

by Sandra Nortunen, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

A 23-year-old Florida woman upset that her boyfriend was speaking
to another woman at a party decided to stab him in the chest, news
reports stated. Lashamera Yvette Smith and her boyfriend were out
at a bar Friday night before they ended up at a block party during the
wee hours of the following day, Volusia County Sheriff's Office investigators...

Boca board to buy golf course, re-brand it as
‘Boca National Golf Club’

by Lulu Ramadan, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

A Boca Raton taxing district has city support for buying a dilapidated
golf course for $24 million, with plans to revitalize and re-brand it as
“Boca National Golf Club.” Talk of the Greater Boca Raton Beach
and Park District — a taxing body independent of the city of Boca
Raton — buying Ocean Breeze Golf Club, a 27-hole course...

Trump and fellow Palm Beacher, friend Robert
Kraft at odds over anthem issue

by John Bisognano, Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

The next time President Donald Trump and fellow part-time Palm
Beacher Robert Kraft, owner of the New England Patriots, share a
meal at Trump’s Winter White House, Mar-a-Lago, there may be
some awkward moments. While the two have forged a close
friendship over the years, and Kraft has donated $1 million dollars to Trump’s inauguration...

More Stories

Popular in News

1 Clown killing: Wellington woman murdered by clown never caught
2 BREAKING: 27 years later, arrest made in fatal shooting by clown

3 Renovations at three of Boynton Beach's restaurant destinations

NEWS p> MARKETPLACE » AFFILIATES p> ABOUT US p> TOP a

© 2017 Cox Media Group. By using this website, you accept the terms of our Visitor Agreement and Privacy Policy,
and understand your options regarding Ad Choices > . Learn about careers at Cox Media Group

4 of 4 9/27/2017, 12:04 AM
HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015031
