90 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

evolved for different purposes. As languages differ in their construction
they co-opt different bits of the brain. It is possible to see this using brain
imaging.

Dyslexics - and I am one — have difficulty in translating between
the realm of conceptual thought and written script. This translation is
subtly different for each language. Chinese speakers use their motor
cortex to process characters. Young children write out the characters
over and over, to memorize them, so the ‘muscle’ memory is highly
involved. French and Spanish children use the audio pathways, as most
of their language is phonetic, the motor part of writing is then an add-
on and does not process meaning. English children must use portions
of their visual cortex to process the meaning of words, as many words
have spelling quirks that have nothing to do with the sound of the words.
Some studies even suggest a child dyslexic in one language, because, for
example, their audio pathway is impaired, might not suffer the condition
in another language that relied on a visual or motor skill.

Can Objects Communicate?

The process of communication has many components, starting with
something capable of communicating. Communication usually -
perhaps always — is something that occurs between sentient beings. I
don't think of my computer as communicating with me, but rather think
of it as a medium for communication or a dumb machine. But colloquial
language around the subject is a little muddled. We all agree a lighthouse
does not communicate, even though it can signal danger, but what do
we mean when we say, “That song really spoke to me.” No one believes
the song is actually communicating, but some kind of communication
was made nonetheless. When we talk of communication do we mean the
agent or the message?

Stories

Humans enjoy communicating; we create works of art, music and
literature that transcend simple analysis. The COIN dynamic slide,
which we saw earlier detailing the strategic situation in Afghanistan,
would probably have been better communicated with a story. Humans,
unlike computers, do not cope well with large quantities of unrelated
information, and studies of memory and comprehension show we

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015780
