» Skype ( www.skype.com )

Skype is my default for all phone calls. It allows you to call landlines and mobile phones across the globe
for an average of 2—5 cents per minute, or connect with other Skype users worldwide for free. For about
40 euros per year, you can get a U.S. number with your home area code and receive calls that forward to
a foreign cell phone. This makes your travel invisible. Lounge on the beach in Rio and answer calls to
your “office” in California. Nice. Skype Chat, which comes with the service, is also perfect for sharing
sensitive log-in and password information with others, as it’s encrypted.

» Vonage (www.vonage.com) and Ooma (www.ooma.com)

Vonage offers a small adapter for a monthly fee that connects your broadband modem to a normal
phone. Take it on your travels and set it up in your apartment to receive calls to a U.S. number. Ooma
has no monthly fees and doesn’t require a landline, but it offers similar hardware you can connect to
broadband for a local U.S. number anywhere in the world.

> VoIPBuster (www.voipbuster.com) and RebTel (www.rebtel.com)

Both VoIPBuster and RebTel can provide “alias” numbers. Enter a friend’s overseas number on their
sites, and both will give you a local number in your area code that will forward to your friend.
VoIPBuster also acts as a cheaper Skype with free calls to more than 20 countries.

International Multi-Band and GSM-Compatible Phones

=» My World Phone ( www.myworldphone.com )

I’m partial to Nokia phones. Ensure whichever phone you purchase is “unlocked” —that the SIM card
can be swapped out in different countries with different providers.

= World Electronics USA ( www.worldelectronicsusa.com )

Good explanation of which GSM frequencies and “bands” function in which countries, which will
determine which phone you purchase for travel (and perhaps home).

Tools for Off-the-Beaten Path

» Satellite Phones ( www.satphonestore.com )

If you will be in the mountains of Nepal or on a remote island and want the peace of mind (or headache)
of having a phone nearby, these phones work via satellite instead of towers. Iridium has been

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013976
