2. Micromanaging and e-mailing to fill time Set the responsibilities, problem scenarios and rules, and
limits of autonomous decision-making —then stop, for the sanity of everyone involved.

3. Handling problems your outsourcers or co-workers can handle

4. Helping outsourcers or co-workers with the same problem more than once, or with noncrisis
problems Give them if-then rules for solving all but the largest problems. Give them the freedom to act
without your input, set the limits in writing, and then emphasize in writing that you will not respond to
help with problems that are covered by these rules. In my particular case, all outsourcers have at their
discretion the ability to fix any problem that will cost less than $400. At the end of each month or
quarter, depending on the outsourcer, I review how their decisions have affected profit and adjust the
rules accordingly, often adding new rules based on their good decisions and creative solutions.

5. Chasing customers, particularly unqualified or international prospects, when you have sufficient
cash flow to finance your nonfinancial pursuits

6. Answering e-mail that will not result in a sale or that can be answered by a FAQ or auto-
responder For a good example of an auto-responder that directs people to the appropriate information
and outsourcers, e-mailinfo@fourhourworkweek.com.

7. Working where you live, sleep, or should relax Separate your environments—designate a single

space for work and solely work—or you will never be able to escape it 84

8. Not performing a thorough 80/20 analysis every two to four weeks for your business and
personal life

9. Striving for endless perfection rather than great or simply good enough, whether in your
personal or professional life Recognize that this is often just another W4W excuse. Most endeavors are
like learning to speak a foreign language: to be correct 95% of the time requires six months of
concentrated effort, whereas to be correct 98% of the time requires 20-30 years. Focus on great for a few
things and good enough for the rest. Perfection is a good ideal and direction to have, but recognize it for
what it is: an impossible destination.

10. Blowing minutiae and small problems out of proportion as an excuse to work

11. Making non-time-sensitive issues urgent in order to justify work How many times do I have to
say it? Focus on life outside of your bank accounts, as scary as that void can be in the initial stages. If
you cannot find meaning in your life, it is your responsibility as a human being to create it, whether that
is fulfilling dreams or finding work that gives you purpose and self-worth—ideally a combination of
both.

12. Viewing one product, job, or project as the end-all and be-all of your existence Life is too short
to waste, but it is also too long to be a pessimist or nihilist. Whatever you’re doing now is just a
stepping-stone to the next project or adventure. Any rut you get into is one you can get yourself out of.
Doubts are no more than a signal for action of some type. When in doubt or overwhelmed, take a break
and 80/20 both business and personal activities and relationships.

13. Ignoring the social rewards of life Surround yourself with smiling, positive people who have
absolutely nothing to do with work. Create your muses alone if you must, but do not live your life alone.
Happiness shared in the form of friendships and love is happiness multiplied.

84. To avoid the living room and coffee shop as offices, consider using a social “co-working” space
on occasion: http://coworking .pbwiki.com.

The Last Chapter

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013989
