Origins February 24 — 26, 2017
PROJECT An Origins Project Scientific Workshop

ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY Challenges of Artificial Intelligence:
Envisioning and Addressing Adverse Outcomes

true today to some extent, but the above advances in ML/Al could make the situation substantially
worse, in extreme cases perhaps even rendering useful mass communication on the internet
untenable.

The rising capabilities can be used in multiple ways in multiple settings with multiple goals. Some uses
may be subtle and employed over time to do important but damaging biasing of sentiment about
individuals and groups of people. The capabilities can be combined to enable identity theft or identify
distortion for destroying the reputation of people and groups. As such, these abilities could enable
small groups to wield great power in multiple arenas and for new forms of blackmail, threats, and
control.

SUMMARY

Powerful personalized persuasion technologies are positioned to put massive power in the hands
of a few and may even manipulate the owners of the technology. Powerful propaganda and
persuasion machines threatens to undermine democracy, free availability of information about the
state of the world, and, more generally, freedom of thought. Leaders may increasingly depend
upon such propaganda optimization systems for attaining and holding power. Over time, even the
potential initial owners of such systems might become unaware or unable to control these
systems—and may believe the propaganda themselves.

In the longer-term, there is the possibility that one or multiple systems, or distributed coalitions of
systems communicating implicitly or explicitly could autonomously persuade, subjugate, and
control populations. Pathways to such situations include the side effects of rise in the large-scale
use by people of communicating personalized filters that interpret and pool information with the
initial intention of grappling with widespread uses of manipulative information.

SAMPLE TRAJECTORY

e ML-based customized advert placement continues to prove highly successful, generating revenues
for large online companies

e Profits from online content (online newspapers behind paywalls, charitable contributions to
information sources e.g. Wikipedia) stagnate or decline

e Anincreasing number of information sources enter into collaborations with media brokers who
offer content customization in exchange for ad-revenue sharing

e Poor oversight of content personalization outcomes (there are, after all, billions of ad versions
being shown, and updated on an hourly basis), means that for some ad content (political parties,
pharmaceuticals) for some minority of target audiences (especially less privileged) the effect is very
harmful.

KEY POINTS
e New directions with generation of provocative, believable content, hacking of identity
e Algorithmic manipulation of data to optimize desired behavior regardless of content

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011288
