Origins February 24 — 26, 2017
PROJECT An Origins Project Scientific Workshop

ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY Challenges of Artificial Intelligence:
Envisioning and Addressing Adverse Outcomes

obesity, non-communicable disease; greater longevity; and lower rates of infant mortality — effectively
stop any serious challenges to the systems being used and further developed.

By 2050, life styles and healthcare across the US and many other parts of the world are governed by Al
systems that have their roots in the early Al-consult technologies. The advice given to people, the
actions that are imposed on them, the way people are persuaded and encouraged to live their lives in
certain ways, are opaque, and are no longer under transparent direct human control. However, most
people live longer, healthier and happier lives as a result.

There remain several concerns:

e There remains some differentiation in health and well-being related quality of life within society. Some
communities and individuals opt out of Al-consult control, although their health-metrics are typically
very poor in comparison with the rest of society.

e Perhaps troublingly, there are some trends that are hard to make sense of. For instance, there seem to
be fewer cases of mental and physical disability than might be expected. However, with Al-consult
controlling healthcare (and health data) across the board, there are few ways for people to analyze and
study these possible trends.

e Lack of transparency can be a starting point for many adverse outcomes.

e Autonomous devices rely on collecting personal data for performing their tasks. But what happens
when a device starts to know more about its owner than the human itself? How do we ensure the
device does not act in ways that would not act in ways that the owner would not want it to? (Of course
the important question of making sure the data under consideration is protected and does not fall into
malicious hands is a whole other discussion, but let us table that for now.) The classic story of the
Target ads comes to mind, where a teenager was sent ads for pregnancy related products, however,
she had not told her family about the pregnancy.

e Systems might as above might move beyond such areas of health, and provide advice to people on both
their daily decisions and longer-term planning. Such systems might evolve to become personal
advocates who represent people to third parties. This would include both giving advice, and formulating
arguments to make to others, or in making those arguments directly as your representative. These
advocate bots will gradually be useful to a larger and larger fraction of the population, eventually being
useful even as corporate legal counsel and as advisers to CEOs. Strong systems and reliance will raise
reasonable alarms about Al control of people and society. How can we be sure that our these highly
relied upon systems are genuinely advocating for us rather than the interests of others?

DISCUSSION

How can we characterize potential high-threat areas and stay aware of these possibilities even if
these effects are insidious, and occur over long periods of time. What might be done to address
potential poor outcomes? How can people maintain skills, agency, and be empowered, and aware
over time with the expected growth and eventual ubiquity of Al systems that advise and guide?

20

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011303
