A smattering of the issues before him:
“Veterans with a little cancer can’t see a doctor until they are terminal... .”
Then the incredulity:

“IT was in Russia years ago with the Ms. Universe contest—did very very well—I tell
everyone be careful, because you don’t want to see yourself on television—cameras all
over the place. And again, not just Russia, all over. So would anyone really believe that
story? I’m also very much of a germaphobe, by the way. Believe me.”

Then the denial:

“IT have no deals in Russia, I have no deal that could happen in Russia because we’ve
stayed away, and I have no loans with Russia. I have to say one thing ... Over the
weekend I was offered two billion dollars to do a deal in Dubai and I turned it down. I
didn’t have to turn it down, because as you know I have a no-conflict situation as
president. I didn’t know about that until three months ago but it’s a nice thing to have. But
I didn’t want to take advantage of something. I have a no-conflict-of-interest provision as
president. I could actually run my business, run my business and run government at the
same time. I don’t like the way that looks but I would be able to do that if I wanted to. I
could run the Trump organization, a great, great company, and I could run the country, but
I don’t want to do that.”

Then the direct attack on CNN, his nemesis:

“Your organization is terrible. Your organization is terrible... . Quiet ... quiet ... don’t
be rude ... Don’t be... . No, ’'m not going to give you a question ... I’m not going to give
you a question... . You are fake news... .”

And in summation:

“That report first of all should never have been printed because it’s not worth the paper
it’s printed on. I will tell you that should never ever happen. Twenty-two million accounts
were hacked by China. That’s because we have no defense, because we’re run by people
who don’t know what they’re doing. Russia will have far greater respect for our country
when I’m leading it. And not just Russia, China, which has taken total advantage of us.
Russia, China, Japan, Mexico, all countries will respect us far more, far more than they do
under past administrations... .”

Not only did the president-elect wear his deep and bitter grievances on his sleeve, but it
was now clear that the fact of having been elected president would not change his
unfiltered, apparently uncontrollable, utterly shoot-from-the-hip display of wounds,
resentments, and ire.

“T think he did a fantastic job,” said Kellyanne Conway after the news conference. “But
the media won’t say that. They never will.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019913
