wife and belonging to a husband like Robbie. Marriage was bliss for the
duration of our honeymoon until we had to ride coach on our way to
Bangkok Airport to fly out to Australia. Chatting away with always so
much to say to each other we watched a movie and finally got
comfortable leaning up against each other as pillows. We both fell asleep
on the long ride and when we woke up to the sound of the buses brakes
coming to a halt we initially realized my purse and Robbie’s wallet with
all of our money and cards in it was missing. Stranded in the city of
Bangkok was frightening enough as it was but too make matters worse a
lady looking in her mid-seventies, scrawny and hunched over from an
obvious lack of nutrition lifted up her skirt to a passer-byer with a she-
male hanging off his arm and began smacking her vagina blaring out
“Look! No cock...Pussy, pussy! Only five baht” repeating herself many
times over the man just walked on past as she sat back down on the curb
waiting for the next alluring customer. Robbie and I shook our heads in
disgust and disbelief, things could really be that bad for someone, | would
know best as it wasn’t far off the life Jeffrey had been training me up for.

Completely broke at two o’clock in the morning and with no one to call
for help, I panicked right away. Robbie rubbed my back and his tired eyes
trying to make the situation better. Luckily we had made friends with
some really nice people from the resort on the island who gave us about
two thousand baht when they saw how devastated Robbie and I were.
With just enough money to rent a really. cheap room for the night at a
backpackers hoste! and pay for a taxi to the airport the following day, we
were saved.

Early the next morning we were off in separate planes, since Robbie’s
ticket was pre-booked and no available seats left for me to join him meant
we would be landing in Australia separately. Fortunately we had found a
corresponding flight that arrived within the same hour of each other but I
would have to make a stop over to the Philippines. The lengthy hours of
the duration on the flight seemed to stretch on with only the thoughts of
the journey ahead of me I couldn’t wait to get back to my husbands
loving arms. The trip was going well, sleeping the majority of the flight
until I had to change planes in the Philippines.

After the plane landed and before any passenger was allowed to get off
we were handed a declaration statement that informed us that if we were
carrying any drugs or weaponry, we would be arrested and face charges
with death as the ultimate penalty. Not that I had anything to worry about,
but what a thought to willingly sign over your life. I got the chills
handing over my signed declaration and traveling documents to the
customs officer. Obtaining my passport he additionally asked to see my
departing ticket. No problem | thought, just I had done many of times,
and | handed over the requested information. The officer looked me over

133

£1 Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004266

and got on the phone immediately which sounded like a phone call to his
superiors but | couldn’t tell since it was in another language. A brief
conversation but long enough to get me thinking, he then called over two
guards who took me by the arms and brought me into an empty room but
for a desk and three chairs to be interrogated. No one would tell me what
was going on they all just scattered around in frenzy, ignoring all of my
hysterical inquisitions. Leaving me by myself and alone with my thoughts
I couldn’t help but panic even worse now.

This was a total bombshell of confusion on my part, what had | done
wrong? Minute’s later a large-framed women in a green uniform entered
the room with the guards from before and sat down across from me with
a stern look in her eyes. She placed my documents on the desk in between
us. Not saying a word to me she was waiting for me to give her an
explanation for something. “Can you please tell me what this is about,
have I done something wrong?” L asked her politely, trying to restraint
any animosity towards her. Her reply sounded as grim as she looked.
“You have been in Thailand for three months and now you have only a
one way ticket booked to Australia with no visa. What exactly are your
plans once you get there, Ms. Roberts?” To myself 1 wondered what
business it was to her, don’t people travel with one-way tickets all the
time? Knowing I was in no position to be able to say anything like that or
even at all I just gave in nicely and told her my intentions to travel over
there. Crying through my entire explanation | wasn’t sure if | was going ~
to even make my flight now. She had to think about everything | had told
her fora moment, deciding whether or not she would grant me
permission to meet my husband in Australia or send me back alone to
Bangkok. With only time on my side she had to make a hasty verdict
now. One more question had to be answered before | was let go, she
wanted some proof. “If you have just got married can you show me your
marriage certificate then?” This didn’t help my stories credibility at all
seeing that we were married in a Buddhist temple and given woven
bracelets instead of certificates. Explaining to her that I didn’t have one to
show her yet but was already aware that I would have to obtain a legal
marriage certificate through a courthouse upon my arrival in Australia to
stay there legally, it was only because of my husbands beliefs we wanted
to get married in a Buddhist ceremony. She must have shared a common
interest in religion or something like that as she finally cracked a smile
upon the photos of the wedding day that 1 showed her and carrying in my
purse since getting them developed, if she wanted proof, well this is all I
really had.

Handing me back my documents and ticket I was now free to leave but
she wasn’t leaving me much time to run through the airports terminal to
get to my departing plane. Expeditiously bolting through the busy airport

0 Copyright Protected Material

GIUTEREO04267

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021211
