that I'm married and I love my husband. My clients accept that.

KOK ok
This can be found on the Internet at:

http://clarissethorn.com/blog/2012/01/05/one-blurred-edge-of-sex-work-interview-with-
a-sugar-baby-part-1/

and

SEX WORK:
[theory] A Sugar Baby Leaves The Business

I published this in 2012; it continues Olivia's story. Thanks again to Olivia for being so
incredibly generous with her time and her thoughts.

te OK ok

A Sugar Baby Leaves The Business

Previously on Role/Reboot, we ran an interview with my friend Olivia, a 25-year-old
graduate student who had just started having sex for money through a sugar baby”
website called SeekingArrangement.com. In the interview, Olivia covered a lot of topics.
She mentioned that she usually feels powerful in her relationships with her clients. As she
put it, When I show up, I don't feel like -- here is this rich, powerful person who is about
to bestow wealth upon me. I feel like -- here is this person who is a bit sad and lonely,
and maybe I can make their day better. Olivia also noted that her negotiations can be
delicate, because some men are quite squeamish while talking about money. And she
explained that she’s married -- but it was already an open relationship, and she doesn't see
having sex for money as different from the other kinds of sex that she and her husband
were already having with other people. To deal with it, they're sure to communicate
clearly. As Olivia said, We just have to talk about it.”

In the months since that interview, Olivia and I have hung out occasionally to talk about
her experience with sex work. She's traveled across the city to meet me, and often bought
me coffee; non-judgmental social support for sex workers can be rare, and I've seen more
of her since she started the job. Although she really enjoyed the work at first, there were
tough times too, especially after the novelty wore off. Recently, Olivia decided to stop
seeing clients. We talked it through and she gave me permission to write about it. (She
also reviewed this article pre-publication.)

Obviously, there were logistical complexities from the beginning. Taxes were a

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018614
