begets success.

She was most afraid in Singapore, and in retrospect, it was where she had the least reason to be
worried (she took her kids to South Africa, among other places). She was scared because it was the first
stop and she was unaccustomed to traveling with her kids. It was perception, not reality.

Robin Malinsky-Rummell, who spent a year traveling through South America with her husband and
seven-year-old son, was warned by friends and family not to visit Argentina after their devaluation riots
in 2001. She did her homework, decided that the fear was unfounded, and proceeded to have the time of
her life in Patagonia. When she told locals that she was originally from New York, their eyes widened
and jaws dropped: “I saw those buildings blow up on TV! I would never go to such a dangerous place!”
Don’t assume that places abroad are more dangerous than your hometown. Most aren’t.

Robin is convinced, as are other NR parents, that people use children as an excuse to stay in their
comfort zones. It’s an easy excuse not to do something adventurous. How to overcome the fear? Robin
recommends two things:

1. Before embarking on a long international trip with your children for the first time, take a trial run
for a few weeks.

2. For each stop, arrange a week of language classes that begin upon arrival and take advantage of
transportation from the airport if available. The school staff will often handle apartment rentals for
you, and you will be able to make friends and learn the area before setting off on your own.

But what if your concern isn’t so much losing your children but losing your mind because of your
children?

Several families interviewed for this book recommended the oldest persuasive tool known to man:
bribery. Each child is given some amount of virtual cash, 25-50 cents, for each hour of good behavior.
The same amount is subtracted from their accounts for breaking the rules. All purchases for fun—
whether souvenirs, ice cream, or otherwise—come out of their own individual accounts. No balance, no
goodies. This often requires more self-control on the part of the parents than the children.

How to Get Airfare at 50-80% Off

This is not a book on budget travel. Most of the cost-cutting recommendations found in such guides

are designed with the binge traveler in mind. For someone embarking on a mini-retirement, an extra $150
for hassle-free airfare amortized over two months is a better deal than 20 hours of manipulating frequent-
flier points on an unknown airline or chasing questionable deals.

Following two weeks of research, I once bought a one-way standby ticket to Europe for $120. I
arrived at JFK brimming with enthusiasm and confidence—look at all these schmucks paying retail! —
and 90% of the “participating” airlines refused my ticket. Those that didn’t were booked for weeks solid.
I ended up staying in a hotel for two nights for a $300 tab, filing a complaint with AMEX, and
eventually calling 1-800-FLY-EUROPE from the JFK terminal in frustration. I bought a round-trip
ticket to London on Virgin Atlantic for $300 and left an hour later. The same ticket cost more than $700
a week earlier.

After 25 countries, I’ve found a few simple strategies that get you 90% of the possible savings without
wasting time or producing migraines.

1. Use credit cards with reward points for large muse-related advertising and manufacturing
expenses.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013962
