this wasn’t the first time a young girl had been trialed for the same
position | was about to fill.

We were only chatting for a moment before Ghislane appeared and told
me Jeffrey was ready for his massage. ] was led through the extensively
large house to the winding staircase that would lead me up to the same
dreaded room where I would have to re-enact last night’s performance. I
wasn’t far from wrong. I gave Jeffrey a massage with Ghislane leading
the way again, this time we surprisingly made it to the front of his body
and she continued to show me how to massage all the way up to his
stomach pushing my hands in a spiraling clockwise circular motion to not
disrupt the bowels and then we came up to his chest. He couldn’t dare
contain himself for one second longer, telling me to put my lips on his
nipples and give them a kiss. Jeffrey moaned in pleasure and Ghislane
started to undress me from behind. Within moments I was completely
naked and Ghislane had her top off. She was caressing my body with her
hands while Jeffrey moved his hands down to stroke his loins while he
watched her and I kiss and touch each other. I didn’t know if she was
doing this for the sake of his eye-candy but she sure did act like she loved
having the control over me telling me what to do throughout the entire
threesome. Jeffrey’s climax was always the end to our sessions and this
time he wanted to have me make him orgasm orally. Afterwards we went
for the ritualistic steam-room, this time Ghislane joining in with us for
conversation. She asked me to massage her feet this time while we were
in the steam room, showing me that Jeffrey wasn’t the only one I had pay
my homage to. We all had a shower next and then we all went downstairs
to pay me and have Juan drop me off back home.

The following afternoon I received a call at work, surprisingly it was
Ghislane asking me to come over when I got off of work again. The
compliant side took over and I told her I looked forward to meeting with
them today, instead of telling her to go screw herself for lying to me and
making me degrade myself more each time I saw them. I finished work
for the day and my Dad brought me over to El Brillo Way again, where
the vultures were patiently waiting in their lair, he wished me well as I
hopped out of his big truck, looking ever so much like his little girl again.
T gave him a smile and a wave as he drove down the long driveway,
waiting for him to suddenly turn back and not leave me alone to my task.
T shook myself out of that calamity and put on my “big girls” face.

Juan brought me to the kitchen again as I waited for Ghislane. He
offered me a cold drink and some fruit on a platter, I accepted and was
grateful for the rejuvenation before I went to work again. It wasn’t long
before Ghislane approached me from behind with a cold intense look in
her eye. | jumped from my seat, feeling like maybe I shouldn’t have been
eating and drinking while on the job, as her demeanor seemed annoyed

29

and temperamental in the seconds that she appeared. She told me | would
be on my own today as she had business to attend to, so make sure I
remembered what she had taught me, as my trial depended on it.

Chapter 5

I walked up the stairs by myself this time, taking in more of the décor,
noticing the more I looked around the more I noticed a different girl in
each photograph in his collection of half-nude and topless girls on display
around his mansion. I couldn’t believe how many girls there were, it’s not
like Jeffrey was much to look at. He was an aging man in his early fifties
with shiny grey hair and characteristic lines drawn down his face as if he
had seen harder days. With no prospects of ever settling down or having a
family of his own, Jeffrey treated us girls like a piece of clothing he could
try on for the day and get rid of the next. So why was there so many girls
in these photo’s? I wondered to myself if I would end up one of those
girls among his collection of forgotten relationships and broken promises.

I continued to make my way up the stairs, and as if all of my senses
were heightened from my bare nerves being exposed, I could smell the
cleaning detergents recently used by the housekeepers, my observations
of the shade of lighting through the concealed blinds as I entered Jeffrey’s
bedroom appeared golden, and the sound of stillness except for the thud
of my rapid beating heart all made me more aware of how nervous I was
to be on my own. Not that Ghislane was anything of a comfort, but I
didn’t know what to expect or how I was going to lead myself into
upholding my obligation in pleasing him. 1 would hope for the best I
thought, trying to uplift my confidence as I opened the door to the
massage room with the typical scene of Jeffrey laying naked facedown in
the massage bed waiting for his entertainment. It was de’ja’vous’ all over
again. Repeating what Ghislane had taught me, with him commenting on
what else |] should be doing, until it got to the end and | was expected to
grant him all of his spoken desires. We finished up with the shower again
and he seemed very pleased in my contribution of myself to him, giving
in to every request.

He told me to go ask Juan to pay me, as he was lethargic after the
massage and intimate affair between us and now was going to have sleep.
I walked back down stairs and told Juan that Jeffrey was asleep and said |
had to ask him for my pay. He went to Jeffrey’s desk and took out the
exact amount 1 was owed without even asking how much I normally get
paid. He then drove me home, only to be back the next afternoon.

30

[ Copyright Protected Material OU Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004 162 CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004 163

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021159
