'‘ATTERSON

a different. But they were not

must be based on admissible
1 cases of this type, those are
e victims are frightened and
‘ they do speak, they give con-
‘judgment in this case, based
-he time, was that it was better
time in jail, register as a sex
ms restitution than risk a trial
1 of success. 1 supported that
on the state law as it then stood
- the time, I would support that

hile in state custody, likewise
hat the office should have been
rms of confinement in a state
priately left to the State of Flor-
rities, without doubt, the treat-
le in state custody undermined
nce.

ve that the prosecution should
iliation for the defense’s tactics.

ften failed to negotiate in good j

concessions as part of a negotla-

d, only to change their minds, q
sition to Washington. The inves a
lives of individual prosecutors |

alled for, as were the accusallo
t against individual prosecute

210

Fittay Ricw

At times, some prosecutors felt that we should just go to
trial, and at times I felt that frustration myself. What was
right in the first meeting, however, remained right irre-
spective of defense tactics. Individuals have a constitu-
tional right to a defense. The aggressive exercise of that
right should not be punished, nor should a defense coun-
sel’s exercise of their right to appeal a U.S Attorney to
Washington D.C. Prosecutors must be careful not to allow
frustration and anger with defense counsel to influence
their judgment.

After the plea, I recall receiving several phone calls.
One was from the FBI Special Agent-In-Charge. He called
to offer congratulations. He had been at many of the
meetings regarding this case. He was aware of the tactics
of the defense, and he called to praise our prosecutors for
holding firm against the likes of Messrs. Black, Dershow-
itz, Lefkowitz and Starr. It was a proud moment. | also
received calls or communications from Messrs. Dershow-
itz, Lefkowitz and Starr. I had known all three individu-
als previously, from my time in law school and at
Kirkland & Ellis in the mid 90s. They all sought to make
peace. I agreed to talk and meet with each of them after
Epstein pled guilty, as I think it important that prosecu-
tors battle defense attorneys in a case and then move on. I
have tried, yet I confess that this has been difficult to do
fully in this case.

The bottom line is this: Mr. Jeffrey Epstein, a billionaire,

7 Served time in jail and is now a registered sexual offender.
_ He has been required to pay his victims restitution, though
» festitution clearly cannot compensate for the crime. And

211

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010551
