Chapter 6
A Brief Overview of CogPrime

6.1 Introduction

Just as there are many different approaches to human flight — airplanes, helicopters, balloons,
spacecraft, and doubtless many methods no person has thought of yet — similarly, there are likely
many different approaches to advanced artificial general intelligence. All the different approaches
to flight exploit the same core principles of aerodynamics in different ways; and similarly, the
various different approaches to AGI will exploit the same core principles of general intelligence
in different ways.

In the chapters leading up to this one, we have taken a fairly broad view of the project
of engineering AGI. We have presented a conception and formal model of intelligence, and
described environments, teaching methodologies and cognitive and developmental pathways
that we believe are collectively appropriate for the creation of AGI at the human level and
ultimately beyond, and with a roughly human-like bias to its intelligence. These ideas stand
alone and may be compatible with a variety of approaches to engineering AGI systems. However,
they also set the stage for the presentation of CogPrime, the particular AGI design on which
we are currently working.

The thorough presentation of the CogPrime design is the job of Part 2 of this book — where,
not only are the algorithms and structures involved in CogPrime reviewed in more detailed,
but their relationship to the theoretical ideas underlying CogPrime is pursued more deeply.
The job of this chapter is a smaller one: to give a high-level overview of some key aspects the
CogPrime architecture at a mostly nontechnical level, so as to enable you to approach Part
2 with a little more idea of what to expect. The remainder of Part 1, following this chapter,
will present various theoretical notions enabling the particulars, intent and consequences of the
CogPrime design to be more thoroughly understood.

6.2 High-Level Architecture of CogPrime

Figures 6.1, 6.2 , 6.4 and 6.5 depict the high-level architecture of CogPrime, which involves
the use of multiple cognitive processes associated with multiple types of memory to enable
an intelligent agent to execute the procedures that it believes have the best probability of
working toward its goals in its current context. In a robot preschool context, for example, the

107

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013023
