BREAKING DOWN DEMOCRACY: Goals, Strategies, and Methods of Modern Authoritarians

Chapter 1

Validating Autocracy through the Ballot

A major difference between modern authoritarian
systems and traditional dictatorships lies in the role of
elections for parliament and head of state.

Twentieth-century dictatorships often dispensed with
elections entirely or conducted them under blatantly
fraudulent conditions. In the Soviet bloc, elections
were a pointless ritual in which citizens were pres-
sured to go to a polling place and cast ballots for the
Communist Party candidate, the only one permitted to
compete. Military and postcolonial dictatorships often
canceled elections on spurious “national emergency
grounds, or rigged the outcome through crude bal-
lot-stuffing and open intimidation.

At acertain point in the 1980s, however, the strong-
men, juntas, and revolutionary councils of the era
realized that reasonably fair elections could no longer
be avoided. Sometimes a ruling group understood
that this would likely lead to an opposition victory. But
usually, the incumbent leaders—and often foreign
journalists and diplomats—presumed that voters in
repressive settings preferred stability to uncertainty
and would opt for the reassuring faces of authority.

These calculations proved wildly misplaced. Opposi-
tion parties swept to victory in country after coun-
try—in Uruguay, Argentina, Nicaragua, South Korea,
the Philippines, Poland. The word “stunning” made

a frequent appearance in news accounts, as in the
stunning rejection of the ruling party in Poland, or the
stunning setback suffered by Chile's Augusto Pinochet
in a referendum on the continuation of his dicta-
torship. Or, perhaps most astonishing, the stunning
defeat of Communist Party stalwarts in a number of
Soviet cities in 1990 local elections.*

Elections became a key force behind the wave of de-
mocratization that engulfed much of the world during
that decade. Today, the obligation to hold some form of
multiparty balloting is felt by nearly all governments.

The illusion of pluralism

Yet just as with other democratic institutions, modern
authoritarians have mastered the techniques of con-
trol over the electoral process, maintaining political
dominance behind a screen of false diversity.

They have adapted in many ways to the age of the inter-

“We're not perfect. But we do have
democracy.”

—Hugo Chavez

“Yes, we falsified the last election...

In fact, 93.5 percent [of ballots were]
for President Lukashenka. People
say this is not a European result, so
we changed it to 86 percent.”

—Alyaksandr Lukashenka

net and the expectations of a better-informed public. In
the most sophisticated authoritarian states, profes-
sional political operatives—in Russia they are called
“oolitical technologists’—work just as hard as their
counterparts in the United States. Their goal, however,
is not to defeat opposition candidates in a competitive
setting, but rather to organize a system that creates the
illusion of competition while squelching it in reality.

In most countries, elections are largely “free and fair,
meaning the playing field is reasonably level, there is an
honest tabulation of the ballots, vote buying and ballot
stuffing do not change the outcome, and independent
election observers are allowed to monitor the proceed-
ings. For 2015, Freedom in the World placed the num-
ber of electoral democracies at 125, around 64 percent
of the world’s sovereign states.? By historical standards,
this is an impressive figure. Still, there are 70 countries
that do not qualify as electoral democracies. In all but
a few of these settings, elections are indeed held, but
they are either badly flawed or patently dishonest.

Yet even in systems where elections are tainted or fixed
outright, authoritarian leaders often claim legitimacy
from the ballot box. Of the countries assessed in this
study, only China rejects elections as part of the leader-
ships strategy for political control. In Russia, Turkey, Ven-
ezuela, and elsewhere, the leadership invokes victory at
the polls as a mandate for government, including the
adoption of policies that are in fact deeply unpopular.

In some authoritarian states, elections are neither free
nor fair, with heavy manipulation that directly ensures

10

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019244
