BREAKING DOWN DEMOCRACY: Goals, Strategies, and Methods of Modern Authoritarians

ereignty, they are aligning themselves with a Russian
leader who has sought to dominate neighboring
states and who regularly invokes his country’s imperial
and Soviet past. Putin has refused to apologize for
Russias historical subjugation of Central and Eastern
Europe. He has defended the Soviet Unions occupa-
tions as necessary to secure its national interests, and
denounced the movement of former Soviet bloc coun-
tries to join the EU and seek protection in the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).

Far-right parties apparently see Putin not as a threat
to national security, but as an exemplar of their own
nationalist values. Like him, they hope to build a
strong national state without regard for international
agreements, domestic checks and balances, or funda-
mental human rights. Putin's contempt for democracy
carries no stigma among these parties, for which
elections and civil liberties are purely instrumental.
While Le Pen, Wilders, and their ilk need elections as
a means of gaining power and a free press to convey
their arguments, they are hostile to the extension of
rights to immigrants and minorities, and unenthusias-
tic about independent courts that might block their
initiatives. To the extent that the EU enforces demo-
cratic norms in its region, Putin and Europe's far right
have a common enemy in Brussels.

Flacks for autocrats

Paul Manafort, a Washington lobbyist and consultant,
had a long career of work for leading Republicans,
including presidents Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford, and
Ronald Reagan. But by the time he became Donald
Trump's campaign chairman in 2016, Manafort was
best known for his work on behalf of foreign political
leaders, including several with distinctly autocratic
pedigrees: Ferdinand Marcos, the strongman of the
Philippines until 1986; Mobutu Sese Seko, the klepto-
cratic dictator of what is now the Democratic Republic
of Congo; Sani Abacha, a Nigerian military ruler; and
Viktor Yanukovych, president of Ukraine from 2010 to
2014, when he was forced to abandon the presidency
and flee to Russia in the wake of nationwide protests.

anafort's work to dress up the images of Marcos and
obutu stood out at a time when American consul-
tants seldom represented dictators or authoritarians.
nthe 1980s, U.S. political operatives with experience
in major campaigns were expanding their clientele
to include foreign governments and political parties,
though usually in democratic settings.

By 2005, when Manafort signed on to work with Yanu-

kovych, political consultants, public relations special-
ists, and blue-chip law firms were earning fees paid

by a majority of the world’s autocracies, dictatorships,
and illiberal regimes. Some, especially Middle Eastern
monarchies, are American allies. But others are hostile
to democracy and regard the United States—and often
the EU—as adversaries. The lobbyists and spin masters
they employ are not located exclusively in the United
States. Authoritarians with the requisite means and
interests have hired representatives in London and
Brussels as well as Washington and New York.

Lawyers and consultants often represent dictator-
ships indirectly, through state-owned enterprises. A
number of China's state businesses have hired legal
and political consultants in major democracies, as
have state energy corporations in oil-rich countries
like Azerbaijan, Venezuela, and Angola.

But authoritarian governments generally seek the
assistance of global public relations companies in the
wake of repressive crackdowns at home or acts of
aggression against neighbors. During Manafort’s rela-
tively brief tenure with the Trump campaign, it emerged
that several American firms had been contracted to
discourage Congress from criticizing the Yanukovych
government for its jailing of Yanukovych’s 2010 presi-
dential campaign rival, Yuliya Tymoshenko. That effort
failed, as members of Congress and the American me-
dia made Tymoshenko’ fate a crucial criterion in their
assessment of Yanukovych’s record.’? Manafort had
more success in his earlier work to prepare Yanukovych
for his candidacy in 2010. Ukrainian observers credited
the American adviser with smoothing Yanukovychs
rough edges, convincing him to stay on message, and
reminding him that it was important to assure U.S. and
European audiences that he was committed to democ-
racy and the fight against corruption.

n 2016, Reuters reported that five global public rela-
tions firms had competed for a contract to improve
China's image abroad. The planned campaign would
presumably repair reputational damage caused by

the Chinese government's intensifying domestic
repression, its aggressive territorial policies in the
South China Sea, and a push by Chinese companies
to acquire crucial assets in democratic countries. The
firms that participated in the public relations audition
were Hill+Knowlton, Ogilvy, Ketchum, FleishmanHil-
lard, and Edelman. According to the Reuters account,
the firms were asked to give a presentation “on China's
most pressing image problems and demonstrate their
expertise on managing new forms of media.

44

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019278
