should pay their fair share - without ever defining what a “fair share is; with saying that
Romney wants the poor, elderly and sick to fend for themselves - without even
acknowledging that all these government programs are going bankrupt, their current
insolvency only papered over by deficit spending.

Similarly, Obama (or his surrogates) could hint to blacks that a Romney victory would lead
them back into chains and proclaim to women that their abortions and birth control would be
taken away. He could appeal to Hispanics that Romney would have them all arrested and
shipped to Mexico and unabashedly state that he will not enforce the current immigration
laws. He could espouse the furtherance of the incestuous relationship between governments
and unions - in which politicians ply the unions with public money, in exchange for which the
unions provide the politicians with votes, in exchange for which the politicians provide more
money and the unions provide more votes, etc., even though the money is gone.

Obama also knows that the electorate has changed - that whites will soon | | minority in
America (they're already a minority in California) and that the new immigrants to the US are
primarily from the Third World and do not share the traditional American values that attracted
immigrants in the 19th and 20th centuries. It is a different world, and a different America .
Obama is part of that different America , knows it, and knows how to tap into it. That is why
he won.

Obama also proved again that negative advertising works, invective sells, and harsh personal
attacks succeed. That Romney never engaged in such diatribes points to his essential
goodness as a person; his negative ads were simple facts, never personal abuse - facts
about high unemployment, lower take-home pay, a loss of American power and prestige
abroad, a lack of leadership, etc. As a politician, though, Romney failed because he did not
embrace the devil's bargain of making unsustainable promises.

It turned out that it was not possible for Romney and Ryan - people of substance, depth and
ideas - to compete with the shallow populism and platitudes of their opponents. Obama
mastered the politics of envy — of class warfare - never reaching out to Americans as such
but to individual groups, and cobbling together a winning majority from these minority
groups. If an Obama could not be defeated - with his record and his vision of America , in
which free stuff seduces voters - it is hard to envision any change in the future.

The road to Hillary Clinton in 2016 and to a European-socialist
economy - those very economies that are collapsing today in
Europe - is paved.

For Jews, mostly assimilated anyway and staunch Democrats, the results demonstrate again
that liberalism is their Torah. Almost 70% voted for a

president widely perceived by Israelis and most committed Jews as hostile to Israel . They
voted to secure Obama's future at America 's expense and at Israel 's expense - in effect,
preferring Obama to Netanyahu by a wide margin.

A dangerous time is ahead. Under present circumstances, it is

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031702
