Laide

CHAPTER THIRTY
The Consequences for the ‘War on Terrorism’ “

“Because of a number of unauthorized disclosures and a lot of hand-wringing over the government’s role in the
effort to try to uncover these terrorists, there have been some policy and legal and other actions that make our
ability collectively, internationally, to find these terrorists much more challenging.”

CIA Director John Brennan in response to the Paris attack, November 2015

In the evening of November 13, 2015, normal life in Paris was brought to a screeching halt by
nine Jihadist terrorists acting on behalf of ISIS. Three blew themselves up at the stadium at Saint-
Denis, where President Hollande was attending a match between France and Germany, while the
others shot killed 130 people at cafes, restaurants and a theater. 388 others had been wounded in
the carnage. The attack was planned over many months by Abdelhamid Abaaoud, a 28-year old
Belgium citizen of Moroccan origins, who served ISIS as a logistics officer in Syria in 2014. To
organize the attack, he smuggled three suicide bombers into Europe through Greece, raise
financing, set up a base in the Molenbeek section of Brussels, import deactivated assault weapons
from Slovenia (which then had to be restored by a technician), buy ammunition, acquire suicide
vests, obtain “burner” cell phones, rent cars and make on-line bookings for quarters in Paris for
the nine attackers.. Even though Abaaoud was well known to western intelligence services, none
of the communications surrounding the preparations for the attack came to the attention of the
NSA or its allied services in Europe.

Those Paris attackers who did not kill themselves with their suicide vests were killed by the
police, but the real challenge in such a terrorist operation is not bringing culprits to justice after
the massacre civilians. It is preventing them from carrying it out. As “soft targets,” such as
restaurants, cafes, theaters and street gatherings, cannot be continually protected by police, the
only practical means by which a government can prevent such attacks is to learn in advance about
their planning and preparations. One means of acquiring this information is by listening in on the
channels through which members of loosely-knit terrorists organizations, such as ISIS,
communicates with one another. This form of intelligence-gathering obviously works best so
long as the terrorists remain unaware that the communication channels they are using are being
monitored. Once they find out that their messages and conversations are being intercepted, they
will likely find a safer means to communicate important information. For that reason,
communications intelligence organizations keep the sources and methods they employ for
monitoring these channels in a tightly-sealed envelope of secrecy.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020374
