Edwards adv. Epstein
Telephone interview with Virginia Roberts
Page 2 of 23

JS: | Could you spell your last name for us? That is your married last name:
\ Ee eee

JS: Alright, thank you, and where are you living right now?

V: I live in Australia.

JS: | And how long have you resided in Australia.

V: This is my 19 year.

JS: That is where you are right now, correct? We’ve reached you in Australia for this phone
conversation?

V: That is correct, yes.

JS: | And what time is it in Australia right now?
V: I think it’s about 9:00 now.

JS: Ok. That’s 9am, correct?

V: That’s correct.

JS: Alright. Virginia, the reason for this conversation is because it is our understanding that
you know a man by the name Jeffrey Epstein, and I want to begin by asking you please to
tell us about the circumstances of your first meeting Mr. Epstein.

V: Ok. I was introduced to Mr. Epstein by Ghislaine Maxwell. I was working at Donald
Trump’s spa in Mar-a-Lago and I was prompted by Ghislaine to come to Jeffrey’s
mansion in Palm Beach that afternoon after work to make some extra money and to learn
about massage. She met me at the spa, and I was reading a book about anatomy, so I was
already interested in massage therapy as it was and not having any of the education or
you know anything behind me, I thought this was a great opportunity to work for her and
go. So, I went to Jeffrey’s mansion about 5 or 6 in the afternoon. My dad drove me
there. My dad worked at Mar-a-Lago with me, and he met Ghislaine and she seemed like
a nice, proper English lady, and she knows, I mean, you know, one time then _once
before I left to travel overseas, she just seemed really nice and like she would like to help
me out. So my dad left, and I had no problem getting home that night, one of her drivers
would take me back after my trial. So she led me upstairs, and into Jeffrey’s bedroom,
and past that is Jeffrey’s massage room, which has got his steam room and a shower and
a massage table, and there is actually an extra room that has, that nobody knows about it,
it’s kinda like a secret room and it’s got a whole bunch of decorative pictures of
pornographic literature and sex toys andIcan___? _ what happened in there.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015557
