attorney general or chief of staff.

But when he was the federal prosecutor in New Jersey, Christie had sent Jared’s father,
Charles Kushner, to jail in 2005. Charlie Kushner, pursued by the feds for an income tax
cheat, set up a scheme with a prostitute to blackmail his brother-in-law, who was planning
to testify against him.

Various accounts, mostly offered by Christie himself, make Jared the vengeful hatchet
man in Christie’s aborted Trump administration career. It was a kind of perfect sweet-
revenge story: the son of the wronged man (or, in this case—there’s little dispute—the
guilty-as-charged man) uses his power over the man who wronged his family. But other
accounts offer a subtler and in a way darker picture. Jared Kushner, like sons-in-law
everywhere, tiptoes around his father-in-law, carefully displacing as little air as possible:
the massive and domineering older man, the reedy and pliant younger one. In the revised
death-of-Chris-Christie story, it is not the deferential Jared who strikes back, but—in some
sense even more satisfying for the revenge fantasy—Charlie Kushner himself who harshly
demands his due. It was his daughter-in-law who held the real influence in the Trump
circle, who delivered the blow. Ivanka told her father that Christie’s appointment as chief
of staff or to any other high position would be extremely difficult for her and her family,
and it would be best that Christie be removed from the Trump orbit altogether.

7 OK Ok

Bannon was the heavy of the organization. Trump, who seemed awestruck by Bannon’s
conversation—a mix of insults, historical riffs, media insights, right-wing bons mots, and
motivational truisms—now began suggesting Bannon to his circle of billionaires as chief
of staff, only to have this notion soundly ridiculed and denounced. But Trump pronounced
many people in favor of it anyway.

In the weeks leading up to the election, Trump had labeled Bannon a flatterer for his
certainty that Trump would win. But now he had come to credit Bannon with something
like mystical powers. And in fact Bannon, with no prior political experience, was the only
Trump insider able to offer a coherent vision of Trump’s populism—aka Trumpism.

The anti-Bannon forces—which included almost every non-Tea Party Republican—
were quick to react. Murdoch, a growing Bannon nemesis, told Trump that Bannon would
be a dangerous choice. Joe Scarborough, the former congressman and cohost of MSNBC’s
Morning Joe, a favorite Trump show, privately told Trump “Washington will go up in
flames” if Bannon became chief of staff, and, beginning a running theme, publicly
denigrated Bannon on the show.

In fact, Bannon presented even bigger problems than his politics: he was profoundly
disorganized, seemingly on the spectrum given what captured his single-minded focus to
the disregard of everything else. Might he be the worst manager who ever lived? He
might. He seemed incapable of returning a phone call. He answered emails in one word—

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019907
