—,

KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP

Congress to speak more clearly and keeps courts from making criminal law in Congress’s stead.”
Slip op. at 6.

In Cuellar, the Court examined the link between the money-laundering statute’s mens rea
requirement and the underlying elements of the offense. After a careful textual analysis of the
statute and its structure, the Court ruled that the defendant’s conviction could be sustained only if
he knew that the transportation of funds to Mexico was designed to conceal their nature,
location, source, ownership or control—not merely that the defendant knew that the Funds had
been hidden during their transportation to Mexico. Slip op. at 10-17.

Both decisions relied on the ordinary meaning of the statutory terms Congress chose.
And both rejected attempts to broaden those words to cover conduct not clearly targeted by
Congress. Taken together, these decisions reject the notion that prosecutors can take language
from a narrowly drawn federal statute—especially one that itself federalizes the prosecution of
conduct traditionally within the heartland of State police powers—and convert it into a license to
reach additional conduct by ignoring, rewriting or expansively interpreting the law. Both cases
additionally rejected the notion that statutes should be broadly construed in order to facilitate
prosecutions or to in anyway diminish the burden on prosecutors to prove each essential element
of a federal charge in conformity with Congress’s determinations as to what is within the federal
criminal law and what is not. The conflict between the Santos and Cuellar decisions and
CEOS’s grant of effectively unlimited discretionary authority to the USAO to take federal law to
“novel” places where they have never reached before could not be starker.

These lessons have no less force in the context of Executive Branch decision-making
than they do in the context of Judicial interpretation. As you are aware, when federal prosecutors
exercise their discretion, they bear an independent constitutional obligation to faithfully interpret
the law as written—not to broaden its scope beyond the limits endorsed by both Congress and
the President. There is no support for CEOS’s view that the courts or a jury should ultimately
decide whether a “novel” construction of the law is correct. Instead, the Executive Branch itself
has a non-delegable obligation not to exceed its authority; the power of other branches to check
or remedy such usurpation does not legitimize executive action that exceeds its bounds. See Tab
12, November 2, 1994 Memorandum from Assistant Attorney General Walter Dellinger to the
Hon. Abner J. Mikva, Counsel To The President, on Presidential Authority To Decline To
Execute Unconstitutional Statutes, available at http://www.usdoj.gov/olc/nonexcut.htm.

In this case, the text, structure, and history of the relevant federal statutes unambiguously
indicate that these statutes were designed to address problems of a national and international

Justice Stevens, in his concurring opinion, also acknowledged the rule of lenity, calling the plurality opinion’s
discussion of that rule “surely persuasive.” United States v. Santos, No. 06-1005, slip op. at 5 (June 2, 2008)
(Stevens, J., concurring).

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012146
