2006 / 200 Ibs ago

MATT GROENING

Matt Groening was born in Portland, Oregon, on February
15, the third of five children. His father, Homer, was a
cartoonist and filmmaker. From an early age, Matt created
his own cartoons, amusing his friends and annoying his
teachers. Groening attended Evergreen State College

in Washington State, where he studied philosophy and
continued his interest in cartoons, comics and music.

After his graduation in 1977, Groening headed to
Los Angeles where he struggled in immobilizing but irksome
poverty. Increasingly frustrated by the traffic, smog, and
his landlords, Matt began to vent his angst to his friends by
sending them cartoons starring a bug-eyed rabbit named
Binky. Groening soon began to publish and sell these cartoons
at the record shop where he worked. Their popularity
encouraged Matt to syndicate, and in April 1980, Life In Hell®
formally debuted in the Los Angeles Reader. It was there that
he met his future wife, Deborah Caplan, and together
they formed Acme Features Syndicate, which today
circulates Life in Hell® to more than 250 newspapers
around the world in a half-dozen languages.

Life in Hell® has also been collected in a best-
selling series of books with over two million copies in print,
including Love is Hell, Work is Hell, School is Hell, Childhood
is Hell, Akbar & Jeff's Guide to Life, Greetings From Hell, The
Big Book of Hell, With Love From Hell, How to Go to Hell, The
Road to Hell, Binky’s Guide to Love, and Love is Still Hell.

In 1987 James L. Brooks approached Matt about
creating animated shorts to fit between sketches of “The
Tracey Ullman Show.” Matt agreed, but instead of using the
Life in Hell® characters, he created an entirely new cast:

The Simpsons, which bear the names of his family members,
Homer, Marge, Lisa and Maggie (Bart is an anagram for brat).
The Simpsons were soon spun off into a half-hour
animated series which first aired on December 17, 1989
with a Christmas special, followed by the series premiere
on January 14, 1990. It has since gone on to become
the longest running prime-time animated show in
television history. An international hit, the series has
also spawned a licensing and merchandising empire.
Books based on The Simpsons include The Simpsons
Xmas Book, Greetings From The Simpsons, The Simpsons
Rainy Day Fun Book, The Simpsons Uncensored Family Album,
Maggie Simpson’s Alphabet Book, Maggie Simpson’s Counting
Book, Maggie Simpson’s Book of Colors ¢ Shapes, Maggie
Simpson’s Book of Animals, The Simpsons Fun in the Sun Book,
Making Faces With The Simpsons, The Ultra-Jumbo Rain-
Or-Shine Fun Book, Cartooning With The Simpsons, Bart’s
Guide To Life and The Simpsons: A Complete Guide To Our
Favorite Family, a campanion book to the television series.
Groening is also creator and publisher
of Bongo Comics and Zongo Comics.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017540
