violation of our human and international commitments, ensuring the objective of variation of the demographic
structure in our country.

Naturally, our children and new generations will remain the actual solution for this question. Hence, the
development of education, the competencies and capabilities of the UAE nationals will remain our main
priority. We are optimistic about our youth, and proud of their spirit of national belonging, of their growing
realization of the importance of self-reliance and active participation in building the homeland. I follow their
activities and expect a great deal from them, and ask them to double their efforts in learning and enhancing their
competencies in various fields, in20orders to become a distinguished group eagerly sought after by public and
private sectors. We are eager to increase the rate of Emiratization in government and private sectors. I informed
the Cabinet last march that the rate of Emiratization in the ministries has not reached the targeted level, as it did
not exceed 54 percent and 25 percent in the Federal Authorities. I gave directives to prepare a study to denote
the reasons for such a situation in order to draw suitable programs to fill this gap.

By Al-Sharq al-Awsat Daily

Almost a year ago, Your Highness introduced a major reshuffle in the Cabinet. You
mentioned that any minister is liable to change. Is there a plan for a cabinet reshuffle
soon?

There is a fact which should not be absent from the minds of people — that is, the government 1s at the service of
the people. A reshuffle is introduced when there is a need for it, and when we find that it suits an active
handling of the need of national demands, to ensure the power of the union to achieve the objectives of its
strategy, and whatever objective that may come up to meet the actual developments. I still say that any minister
or a man of responsibility entrusted with him is open to replacement by another one who is more capable of
shouldering that responsibility. The basic reference in any decision of this type is the criteria of performance
and level of fulfillment of plans for development projec ts.

By Al-Sharq al-Awsat Daily

Frankly, people outside the Emirates think there is a kind of sensitivity among the seven
Emirates. With reference to the federal system adopted by the state, how do you respond
to that?

I do not understand what you mean by “sensitivity” and the relation of the word to the federal system. But I
know the reason behind your question: it is the media reports which tried, in handling the reflections of the
international financial crisis on the UAE, to place hurdles and fabricate differences between Abu Dhabi and
Dubai. These are vicious attempts that ignored the way the UAE faced the repercussions of the global financial
crisis and the superb performance of our federal entities, under the leadership of His Highness, the President of
the UAE. The performance was excellent, and it presented a new proof of the capability and power of the
federation to face difficult challenges. Anyhow, since you brought the subject up, it is useful to remind
everybody that the seven Emirates chose the federal system, realizing that it is the most viable system to
survive and develop. The founding fathers had wisdom, vision and a future perspective. Whoever knows the
history of the area and its situation prior to the establishment of the union will realize the great achievement of
the union in the establishment of the UAE. Ifthe results are the test, then look at the advance and achievements
of the UAE20after 37 years of the Union. The UAE 1s a state of institutions governed by a constitution, which
covers the allocation of responsibilities to local and federal authorities. Like all federal states, the Federal
government is concerned with all the sovereign affairs, whether related to defense policy, the armed forces,
national security, foreign policy, and financial policy, legislations related to justice, economy, labor or
residence of foreigners.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024940
