even been difficult to get a consensus on releasing a firm statement about the
unacceptability of the use of chemical weapons at the noon press briefing. To both
Kushner and McMaster it seemed obvious that the president was more annoyed about
having to think about the attack than by the attack itself.

Finally, Ivanka told Dina they needed to show the president a different kind of
presentation. Ivanka had long ago figured out how to make successful pitches to her
father. You had to push his enthusiasm buttons. He may be a businessman, but numbers
didn’t do it for him. He was not a spreadsheet jockey—his numbers guys dealt with
spreadsheets. He liked big names. He liked the big picture—he liked /iteral big pictures.
He liked to see it. He liked “impact.”

But in one sense, the military, the intelligence community, and the White House’s
national security team remained behind the times. Theirs was a data world rather than a
picture world. As it happened, the attack on Khan Sheikhoun had produced a wealth of
visual evidence. Bannon might be right that this attack was no more mortal than countless
others, but by focusing on this one and curating the visual proof, this atrocity became
singular.

Late that afternoon, Ivanka and Dina created a presentation that Bannon, in disgust,
characterized as pictures of kids foaming at the mouth. When the two women showed the
presentation to the president, he went through it several times. He seemed mesmerized.

Watching the president’s response, Bannon saw Trumpism melting before his eyes.
Trump—despite his visceral resistance to the establishment ass-covering and standard-
issue foreign policy expertise that had pulled the country into hopeless wars—was
suddenly putty. After seeing all the horrifying photos, he immediately adopted a
completely conventional point of view: it seemed inconceivable to him that we couldn’t
do something.

That evening, the president described the pictures in a call to a friend—the foam, all
that foam. These are just kids. He usually displayed a consistent contempt for anything but
overwhelming military response; now he expressed a sudden, wide-eyed interest in all
kinds of other military options.

On Wednesday, April 5, Trump received a briefing that outlined multiple options for
how to respond. But again McMaster burdened him with detail. He quickly became
frustrated, feeling that he was being manipulated.

The following day, the president and several of his top aides flew to Florida for a
meeting with the Chinese president, Xi Jinping—a meeting organized by Kushner with the
help of Henry Kissinger. While aboard Air Force One, he held a tightly choreographed
meeting of the National Security Council, tying into the staff on the ground. By this point,
the decision about how to respond to the chemical attack had already been made: the
military would launch a Tomahawk cruise missile strike at Al Shayrat airfield. After a

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020028
