http:/Avww.politico.com/blogs/under-the-radar/2014/12/court-filing-levels-sex-claims-at-
alan-dershowitz-200495.html

Woman who sued convicted billionaire over
sex abuse levels claims at his friends

By JOSH GERSTEIN |
12/31/14 6:38 PM EST

A woman allegedly kept as a sex slave by politically-connected billionaire investor Jeffrey
Epstein, who went to jail for having sex with underaged girls, is accusing several prominent
friends of the financier of having taken part in the debauchery, according to a new court filing.

The woman—referred to in court papers as Jane Doe #3— leveled the allegations Tuesday
against Harvard Law School professor Alan Dershowitz and Britain’s Prince Andrew, as well as
British socialite Ghislaine Maxwell and French model scout Jean Luc Brunel.

Dershowitz flatly denied the claims about him Wednesday in an interview with POLITICO.
“Tt’s totally, unequivocally and completely false,” the celebrated attorney said.

A spokesman for Prince Andrew denied the allegations Friday, while a lawyer who handled
related matters for Maxwell did not respond to an e-mail seeking comment. Representatives of
Brunel's modeling firm also did not reply to e-mail messages.

The accusations came in a long-running lawsuit charging federal prosecutors in Florida with
violating a victims-rights law by failing to consult with Epstein’s victims before signing off on a
plea deal. That pact ruled out any federal prosecution of the investor, who agreed to plead guilty
to two state prostitution-related felony charges. Lawyers for the victims have described the
arrangement as a sweetheart dea] the well-connected Epstein and his high-powered legal team
achieved by putting pressure on prosecutors.

Epstein served 13 months of an 18-month sentence on the two state charges before being
released in 2009. He's now a registered sex offender.

The new court filing, submitted by Florida lawyer Brad Edwards and former federal judge Paul
Cassell in a federal court in West Palm Beach, Fla., asked that Jane Doe #3 and another woman
be allowed to join the pending case over the victims’ rights claim.

“Epstein. ..trafficked Jane Doe #3 for sexual purposes to many other powerful men, including

numerous prominent American politicians, powerful business executives, foreign presidents, a
well-known Prime Minister, and other world leaders. Epstein required Jane Doe #3 to describe

EXHIBIT R

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012032
