11

ordeal of the 2003 US-led invasion of Iraq and the long occupation
that followed. Had the United States been successful in Iraq, Syria
would have been the next target, as pro-Israel neocons, the main
architects of the Iraq war, had intended. Syria was then confronted by
the 2005 Lebanese crisis, triggered by the assassination of former
prime minister Rafik Hariri. Syrian forces were ousted from Lebanon
and the Assad regime threatened with extinction by the combined
pressures of the United States and France.

There is also a much older memory that still hangs like a dark cloud --
that of the massacres at Hama in central Syria in 1982. It was then
that Hafez al-Assad put down, with great violence, an armed
insurrection by the Muslim Brothers. Beginning in 1977, this Islamic
group had launched a series of terrorist attacks against the regime,
murdering several of the president’s close associates and eventually
seizing control of Hama, where they killed Ba’ath Party and
government officials. The regime regained control of the town, but
only after a bloodbath in which between 10,000 and 20,000 people
lost their lives.

Thirty years later, some Islamists still dream of revenge, while
minorities such as the Alawites fear that if the regime were to fall,
they would be massacred in turn. Emerging from underground, the
Muslim Brothers have now called on the people to join the protests.
The cry for freedom risks being drowned by sectarian strife.

Such has been Bashar al-Assad’s harsh apprenticeship. He has had to
surmount a series of regime-threatening crises much like those his
father confronted in his time. Both Assads felt some satisfaction at
managing to survive them and thus provide Syria with a measure of
stability and security, especially compared with Iraq and Lebanon.
There was, however, a price to pay. Having to live and survive in a
hostile environment inevitably conferred great powers on the security
services, guardians of the regime -- to the increasing resentment of

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024968
