23

affiliates.* These and other organizations maintain close ties to China’s diplomatic
missions in the United States and are often in contact with training or “cultural
exchange” companies that bring delegations of PRC experts and Communist Party

members to US cities and states for so-called study tours.

US and Chinese groups promoting exchanges and investment have often been a
valuable resource for American local leaders—see, for example, the Virginia Museum of
Fine Arts annual China Fest'* or the Chinese investment program in Greenville, South
Carolina'*—but there have been other instances in which American politicians working

with Chinese organizations have been drawn into schemes that cost them their jobs.

Perhaps the most telling case is that of four officials in Ypsilanti, Michigan, who, in
2017, accepted a trip to China that they had been told was paid for by the Wayne State
CSSA. The trip was eventually revealed as a boondoggle funded by a developer, Amy
Xue Foster, who hoped to build a $300 million “Chinatown” in the area.’ The four

officials, including the mayor, were fired.

This is not to suggest that shady Chinese nationals are always plotting to corrupt
otherwise innocent American leaders; US politicians have a long history of willingly
accepting free trips, gifts, and other favors from the PRC or its fronts. As other
sections of this study make clear, however, Beijing-directed activities such as the secret
purchase of American Chinese-language newspapers and radio stations, harassment of
local Chinese American dissidents, and the operation of CCP cells in local American
businesses and universities do require heightened vigilance by US sub-national
authorities, regardless of how much investment, how many tuition-paying students,

or how many tourists China is able to produce.

China Exchanges and Chinese Leverage

The over forty years of engagement with China has created for American cities

and states, as it has for American corporations and universities, deep interests and
traditions with regard to China. However, the local policies that have guided these
relationships are sometimes at odds with Washington’s policies, even our larger
national interest. Although the United States has pulled out of the Paris Agreement, the
seventeen governors who have joined the United States Climate Alliance, for example,
continue to work with Beijing, which many would agree is a very salutary thing. But
sometimes sub-national solidarity with China can become overexuberant, as it did

ona July 2018 trip to Hong Kong by Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, who declared

Section 2

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020482
