4.2.12
WC: 191694

The resulting one-sided report, which violated all the rules of an organization that had long
claimed to be a neutral advocate for universal human rights in the spirit of Eleanor Roosevelt, was
according to Guild old-timers, designed as a litmus test for its Jewish members:

“Basically ... you had a situation where a bunch of Third World types wanted to ensure
that the Jews in the guild — and the Jews were almost certainly a majority — would be
forced to eat crow, to choose sides. The guild changed dramatically in the late 1960s and
early 1970s, when the veterans of the early days were displaced by the veterans of campus
unrest who had gone from SDS to law schools around the country. They’re angry, and
rigid, and there’s no better test of their control of the guild than forcing the old-timers to
grovel, and there’s no better evidence of their own militance — if they’re Jews — than
toadying up to the PLO. Endorsing the PLO has become a litmus test for Jewish
radicals.”

I decided to devise a litmus test of my own to challenge the bona fides of the Guild’s claim that it
was still a neutral human rights organization. I called Professor John Quigley, the national vice-
president of the guild. After learning that the guild had decided to send an observer to a trial of
an alleged terrorist in Israel, I requested that the guild also send an observer to the Soviet trial of
Anatoly Shcharansky. It was the belief of several experts on Soviet law that a request by the
guild to send an observer to the Shcharansky trial could have had a unique impact on Soviet
actions, since the Soviet Union has a close relationship with the International Association of
Democratic Layers and its constituent members. Professor Quigley was extremely candid in his
response to my request. He told me that he doubted the guild would be willing to send an
observer to a Soviet trial, since the “reality” of the situation is that a considerable number of the
guild members approve of the Soviet Union and would not want to criticize a Soviet judicial
proceeding. In his written response, claiming that the guild could not act on my request in time
for the Shcharansky trial, he put it somewhat differently:

“The problem is that we do not approach matters such as this purely from a human-rights
perspective. We regard it as well from the standpoint of the importance of focusing
attention on human-rights violations in a particular country. With respect to the U.S.S.R.,
we have not had discussion or come to any decision about the appropriateness of focusing
on human-rights issues there.”

The only conclusion one can reasonably draw from the guild’s reluctance to send observers to the
Soviet Union, coupled with its willingness to send observers to Israel, is that the guild is as
unwilling to criticize Communist countries as it is eager to criticize Israel and other Western
democracies.

In my article I put the choice to the Guild:
“Tf the guild decides to continue its foray into international politics, it will have to make a
choice: either to perpetuate its double standard on human rights, which will surely
alienate much of its support here at home for its domestic programs; or to report honestly

on human rights throughout the world, which will surely alienate the PLO and the Soviet
Union.”

333

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017420
