5.4 Interpretation and Application of the Integrative Diagram 105

something the integrative diagram doesn’t touch at all. This brings us again to the network of
ideas we’ve discussed under the name of cognitive synergy, to be discussed later on.

It might be possible to make something similar to the integrative diagram on the level of
dynamics rather than structures, complementing the structural integrative diagram given here;
but this would seem significantly more challenging, because we lack a standard set of tools for
depicting system dynamics. Most cognitive theorists and AGI architects describe their structural
ideas using boxes-and-lines diagrams of some sort, but there is no standard method for depicting
complex system dynamics. So to make a dynamical analogue to the integrative diagram, via
a similar integrative methodology, one would first need to create appropriate diagrammatic
formalizations of the dynamics of the various cognitive theories being integrated — a fascinating
but onerous task.

When we first set out to make an integrated cognitive architecture diagram, via combining
the complementary insights of various cognitive science and AGI theorists, we weren’t sure how
well it would work. But now we feel the experiment was generally a success — the resultant
integrated architecture seems sensible and coherent, and reasonably complete. It doesn’t come
close to telling you everything you need to know to understand or implement a human-like
mind — but it tells you the various processes and structures you need to deal with, and which of
their interrelations are most critical. And, perhaps just as importantly, it gives a concrete way
of understanding the insights of a specific but fairly diverse set of cognitive science and AGI
theorists as complementary rather than contradictory. In a CogPrime context, it provides a
way of tying in the specific structures and dynamics involved in CogPrime, with a more generic
portrayal of the structures and dynamics of human-like intelligence.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013021
