184 Teaching Minds

liked it as a student. Who said that listening to what I happened to be
talking about was an important thing to do? And, who said students
should be graded on how well they had listened to whatever truth I
was espousing? What if I was saying nonsense? I didn’t think I pos-
sessed a direct line to the truth any more than I had thought that my
own teachers did. The system didn’t make sense to me as a student
and it didn’t as a professor.

But it was a very easy job. And the pay, despite what people think
about professors’ salaries, was pretty good.

How hard was this teaching obligation? At Northwestern I was
required to teach one 3-hour- a-week course for 1 quarter every other
year. This came to about 36 hours of work in 2 years.

Yes, really.

So, how was I part of the problem? Actually my light teaching ob-
ligation is the tip of the iceberg of an enormous problem. It brings up
the question of how and why that light load works for a university, the
answer to which sheds light on what is wrong with our school system.

How do the economics of a university work such that a profes-
sor can teach so little? That is an important question. But an equally
important question is how it is that a professor, who is after all, in the
mind of the public at least, a teacher, teaches so little and is happy
about it?

People used to ask me, when I said that I was a professor, what
I taught. I would always laugh. I would suggest that they ask me in-
stead what I was a professor of, which was, of course, the only relevant
question. I didn’t teach much and when I did teach, I hardly taught
computer science, which was actually what I was a professor of. I usu-
ally taught my view of how the mind worked. Sometimes I taught how
education needed to be fixed. But, anyhow, as I have said, there wasn’t
all that much teaching going on in my life. Sometimes I taught more
often than required of me, simply because I was feeling guilty. The
rules said I didn’t have to teach much but there were students, usually
graduate students, who were thinking that as they had attended this
university in part to interact with me, at least I should teach a course
that included them at least once. So I did it because I felt guilty, not
because anyone higher up in the university cared what I did.

I remember a Yale undergraduate who wanted an appointment
with me. He was screaming in the halls, after he had been told that he
could see a graduate assistant instead of me, that he had paid $20,000

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023930
