178 Teaching Minds

Rule #5: No homework unless that homework is to produce
something.

Now let’s have a look at mistake #6.

Mistake #6: Thinking that because students have chosen to take
your course, they have an interest in learning what you plan to
teach them

Professors who typically teach courses that students have chosen
voluntarily to take generally are under the illusion that students have
come to the course hoping to learn what they intend to teach. Noth-
ing could be further from the truth. Unless you are teaching human
sexuality or how to get a job, or abnormal psychology, you generally
can expect that students have very little interest in the content you
are about to share and a great interest in the grade you eventually are
going to give them. The reason for this is simple enough. Professors
are teaching a subject.

Subject, in the university world, is a euphemism for profession.
The profession of English professors is something other than teaching
English—it is being a professional in some subspecialty in literature
or some allied field. Similarly, a professor of psychology has an area of
research within psychology that is his real profession. When a profes-
sor teaches, he is teaching how things work in his profession and he
is teaching the basics of being in that profession. The percentage of
undergraduates in a class that actually want to enter the profession
of the professors is very small. Most have no intention whatsoever of
entering the profession of the professors. So, they recognize instantly
that what they are learning is very unlikely to be of use to them in
their later lives. Some take it seriously anyway and some don’t. But for
the most part students really aren’t much interested in what a profes-
sor is teaching.

They don’t listen and they don’t do what you ask them to do. Why
not? They may be lazy, but that isn’t the real reason. It may be true
that they are taking four other classes, but that also isn’t the real rea-
son. The real reason has to do with the inherent value of work, which
is one of the real issues in the transformation from subject-based edu-
cation to cognitive process-based education. Students can feel, rightly,
that they have read enough Dickens or have solved enough equations

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023924
