settlements in these civil suits agreed not to testify against him or speak publicly about the case.
However, new evidence developed by the Department of Justice on other offenses not covered by the
agreement, including allegations by additional victims who come forward, could lead to new charges.
There is no statute of limitations in the federal sex-trafficking law, which was also enacted by the state of
Florida in 2002. Because his predatory habits stretch back many years and involved dozens of young-
looking girls, there may well be more evidence to uncover. (Several young women who claim to be
Epstein victims have recently contacted a Ft. Lauderdale lawyer, but to date no new civil complaints
have been filed.)

* Conchita Sarnoff: The Billionaire Pedphile's Sex Den

* Billionaire Pedophile Goes Free

These new developments come one week after the publication of two articles in The Daily Beast about
Epstein’s pattern of sexual contact with underage girls, which Palm Beach police began investigating in
2005 and the U.S. Attorney’s office then settled in a 2007 plea deal. The first article quoted a deposition
by then-Palm Beach Chief of Police Michael Reiter, in which he stated that Epstein, a billionaire with
many powerful friends, had received special treatment in both his plea deal and the terms of his
incarceration. Although federal investigators at one point produced a draft 53-page indictment against
Epstein, he was eventually allowed to plead guilty to only two relatively minor state charges and receive
a short term of incarceration: 13 months in the county jail, during which he went to the office every day,
and one year of community control, during which he traveled frequently to New York and his private
island in the Virgin Islands.

The Daily Beast has now discovered another instance in which Epstein apparently received special
consideration: As a convicted sex offender, he is required by law to undergo an impartial psychological
evaluation prior to sentencing and to receive psychiatric treatment during and after incarceration. This is
because child molesters tend to be repeat offenders with high rates of recidivism. According to a source
in law enforcement, however, Epstein was allowed to submit a report by his private psychologist, Dr.
Stephen Alexander of Palm Beach, Florida, whose phone has since been disconnected with no
forwarding information.

The Daily Beast’s second article provided details about Epstein’s systematic abuse of underage girls at
his Palm Beach mansion, where members of his staff allegedly recruited and paid a parade of teenagers,
most of them 16 or younger, to perform daily massages that devolved into masturbation, groping, and
sometimes full-blown sexual contact. It also revealed a monetary relationship between Epstein and Jean
Luc Brunel, a frequent visitor to whom he gave $1 million around the same time that Brunel was starting
his MC2 modeling agency. Some of the young girls MC2 recruited from overseas—often from Eastern
Europe and South America—are known to have been passengers on Epstein’s private jets.

The U.S. Attorney General’s Office in Florida says that it is against policy to confirm or deny the
existence of an investigation. Jeffrey Epstein’s lawyer, Jack Goldberger, says he has no knowledge of an
ongoing probe, and he told The Daily Beast, Jeffrey Epstein has fully complied with all state and federal
requirements that arise from the prior proceedings in Palm Beach. There are no pending civil lawsuits.
There are not and should not be any pending criminal investigations, given Mr. Epstein’s complete
fulfillment of all the terms of his non-prosecution agreement with the federal government.

Conchita Sarnoff has developed multimedia communication programs for Fortune 500 companies and
has produced three current-events debate TV programs, The Americas Forum, From Beirut to Kabul, and
a segment for The Oppenheimer Report. She is writing a book about child trafficking in America.

0

#2 bruce

e Registered User
e

e Group: Members

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022256
