thousands of other colleges in the United States. Yale professors are
thinking about their research, ideas, and projects. Yale administrators
are thinking about making Yale work better and about money and
prestige issues. They are not thinking that the subject-based education
that is the basis of the university structure has filtered down to high
school for no good reason. They think that there is a good reason: to
prepare high school students for college, namely to make the professors’
lives easier when the students arrive at college.
They do not know they are killing education with their subject orientation.
But they are, just as surely as if they had a plan to do so and
were working on it on a daily basis. And, the parents who just must
send their kids to Yale are regularly giving them the power to continue
doing just that.
People who do not live and work within the confines of a great
university imagine that professors are basically teachers, like high
school teachers but more intellectual. They do not understand the collective
mindset at a place like Yale, a mindset that the Yale faculty, for
the most part, is perfectly happy with. They do not understand why
asking what I taught was a funny question. They do not readily get, if
teaching isn’t a professor’s main concern, what exactly his concerns
would be.
To explain all this requires looking at the life of a typical Yale faculty
member and beginning to understand the world in which he
lives. We must begin by understanding the aims of the university itself.
Universities are employers, after all, and professors, like any other
employee, worry about what their boss thinks of them. Curiously,
How the Best Universities Inadvertently Ruin Our Schools 187
however, professors don’t really have bosses in the traditional sense. I
remember the provost of a top university complaining to me that with
professors everything is a la carte. The provost is the guy who runs the
university. What he meant was that he could not ask any professor to
do anything without the professor asking what he would get in return.
The traditional sense of boss is gone, of course, when the boss can’t
fire you.
The real bosses in the university system are your colleagues.
Huh?
Your colleagues can’t fire you. But this is what they can do. In
order to hire a new senior faculty member at Yale, we actually had
to write letters, at the beginning of the process, to all the important
faculty members around the world in the subspecialty in which we
wanted to hire, asking them to rank the top ten people in the world in
that subspecialty. If the person we wanted was not on that top ten list,
we would not be able to hire them without proving why we couldn’t
get one of the people in the top ten and why we so desperately needed
someone who clearly wasn’t that good.
Top universities are caught up in a game they can’t get out of that
has two very bad results. The game is the superstar-prestige game. Top
universities want to be number one. They want this very badly. University
administrators worry about this on a daily basis. All hirings
revolve around this issue. All professors worry about their status in the
academic world at large. It is the coin of the realm in academia.
Although it does not obviously follow from this, one effect of
this game is less than stellar education for undergraduates. And, incidentally,
this game also has a disastrous effect on the nation’s high
schools. This is not at all obvious to professors and to the universities
for whom they work. To understand this, we need to first see what
professors do and how they think about what they do.
I will start by telling a story about someone I barely know. He is a
professor of aerospace engineering at the University of Washington,
which is in the top tier of state universities. I met him because I was
working on creating a high school aerospace curriculum that I hope
one day will replace some of what is now in high school for those interested
in engineering. I asked Boeing to host a meeting to design this
curriculum and they agreed. They invited some of their engineers as
well as this professor, I brought some of my people, and we began to
design a series of projects that would take students with no knowledge
188 Teaching Minds
of engineering and after a year allow them to work on designing a
787. Such a project-based, real-world curriculum is, in my mind, an
important improvement on the way things are done now in school.
At the very beginning of the meeting, this professor said that he
hoped the outcome of this high school curriculum redesign meeting
would be a curriculum that taught math and science better because
the average student at the University of Washington that he encountered
had very weak math and science skills.
This was not my intent at all and I told him so. I was hoping to
allow high school students to have a year-long experience of actually
doing engineering so they could decide whether that interested them
or at least make use of some of what they learned in their later lives.
As far as I’m concerned, there is too much math and science in high
school now and I told him so.
Since no one ever says things like that, he was quite shocked. I
asked him, since he thought entering college students who wished
to study aerospace were deficient in math and science, why he didn’t
think it was his obligation to teach it to them? He replied that this was
the duty of the high schools. His position then was that even though
less than 1% of college students would study aerospace engineering,
nevertheless every student in the country should be made to learn
the math and science they might need just in case they might study
aerospace engineering.
Of course, this is hardly a unique position. In fact, this stance is
exactly the one in place in high schools today. Just in case you some
day might need it, we will teach it to you.
What is the reasoning behind this point of view?
What is really going on here relates strongly to the teaching
requirement issue I mentioned earlier. I had a light teaching load. This
man certainly teaches more often than I did. To see what his load was,
I looked him up on the web. Here are the courses he was teaching in
2007–08 as I wrote this:
• A A 430 Finite Element Structural Analysis
• A A 432 Composite Materials for Aerospace Structures
• A A 532 Mechanics of Composite Materials
I had guessed what kinds of courses he taught before looking him up.
The man is about my age, which means he has seniority, and he is
How the Best Universities Inadvertently Ruin Our Schools 189
obviously respected by Boeing, so he is a senior and successful man
in his field. This means a small teaching load since the best professors
teach the least. Three semester-long courses in a year is a light load at
a big state university.
You might wonder, as an outsider to the ins and outs of the university,
why the best professors teach the least. You also might wonder
why I knew the types of courses he would teach and what I mean by
that. I will explain.
To start this explanation, it is important to understand why professors
are “rewarded” with light teaching loads. (Note the word load.
This is the normal way this is discussed in a university.) I was given
an extraordinarily light load at Northwestern for two reasons. One
reason was that universities, like baseball teams, recruit so-called “superstars”
(yes, that is how they are referred to in the university) from
competitors. So Northwestern had to beat Yale’s offer in my case. At
Yale I taught one semester-long course per year, so Northwestern simply
made me a better offer.
The reason both of these universities would even consider such a
light load is that I earned money for the university. As I used to tell
my children when they asked “why” questions, in the end it is usually
about money.
I was recruited by Northwestern (in 1988), but I was really being
recruited by Andersen Consulting. They offered Northwestern (that is,
they offered me if I came to Northwestern) $30 million (over a 10-year
period). Yes, that’s right, $30 million. I think you can see that Northwestern
didn’t really care what I taught or when I taught it. They
wanted that money. And, they also wanted the prestige.
Before I go too much further, I need to explain the prestige thing
because it is very important. In fact, the prestige issue for professors
and universities is precisely the root of the problem in our education
system. This will take some time to explain, so let me start simply for
now.
When Harvard plays Yale in football, they are battling for prestige.
But the battle may not be on the field exactly. The real battle is in
how powerful and important the alumni who attend the game have
become and how big their respective endowments have become and
who has the best chemistry department or business school. It is a real
battle. The battle is for reputation. And, although it may seem silly to
take this battle seriously, it is taken very seriously. There is no World
190 Teaching Minds
Series that determines the winner. The real determination is made by
newspapers, or parents who want their kids to apply there, or potential
donors. But the battle is real enough.
This battle was dead serious before U.S. News and World Report
started publishing annual rankings. Now, it is the basis of how the
university functions. When the current president was recruited at
Northwestern, he essentially was told that his job was to get Northwestern
into the top ten (in the U.S. News rankings). Northwestern was
ranked 12th or 13th at this time. In his first year he succeeded. Why?
Because Northwestern’s football team won the Big Ten title and went
to the Rose Bowl. Of course, he had nothing to do with that. But the
following year applications doubled (or something like that) and that
is a statistic that U.S. News uses, so presto, we were number nine. It
didn’t last. Neither did it make sense.
Recruiting me was like winning the Rose Bowl. Well, all right, not
really. But a member of the Board of Trustees actually did say to me
when he met me: “It’s our star quarterback.” I brought in money and
prestige. It is natural to wonder who actually got the money that Andersen
offered and what was done with it and why it was given out,
and, while we are at it, what exactly it was I did all day if I didn’t teach.
First the university’s share. Every dollar of that $30 million went
into Northwestern’s bank account. Then they let me spend it according
to certain rules. The first rule is called “overhead.” The university
charges an overhead rate on all contracts. The actual percentage varies
and one of the first things I had to negotiate with Northwestern was
how much their take would be. I don’t remember exactly now, but
they got about 30% of what I brought in. So, about $9 million of this
money went into Northwestern’s pocket. Do you see now why they
didn’t care how much I taught? They just wanted me there and they
wanted that money. By the way, they also got the interest on all the
money.
They also got the prestige. I set up a new institute that became instantly
well known and was something the university could brag about.
The Institute for the Learning Sciences was something unique. Northwestern
had one and no one else did. Moreover, I might (and did) raise
even more money for my institute. More overhead money. Yippee!
What did I do with the money? Mostly what you can do with
this money is hire people. If you have a research agenda, something
you want to build or accomplish, you will need help. If you want to
build a rocket ship that no one has ever built before, you will need to
How the Best Universities Inadvertently Ruin Our Schools 191
hire folks who can contribute. I was trying to build educational software
but the principle was the same. I hired programmers, researchers,
assistants to do lower level work, video staff, artists, and, of course,
graduate students.
And, now you know what I did all day. I managed this enterprise.
Eventually my institute had 200 people working in it. I did what any
person in charge of 200 people does. I set the direction and checked
on progress. Also, I wrote books and thought deep thoughts. This is
what any professor does who brings in grant money. I was just doing
it on a larger scale than most.
All of this is about winning the prestige game. Any university
wants pre-eminent professors. Universities want the best faculty so
their name is mentioned a lot, so they get applications from students,
attention from the media, and more grant money. That is what universities
do. Teaching? Well, how exactly does teaching fit in with all
that?
It really doesn’t. Most professors agree that the university is a lot
nicer place when there aren’t all those undergraduates around. From
May to September New Haven was an idyllic place. Smart people, good
weather, interesting conversation. Then in September, thousands of
young people, making a racket and expecting to be taught. But, therein
lies the problem. Are students really expecting to be taught?
It doesn’t take very long for a professor to learn that those brilliant
Yale students, the ones who killed themselves to get into the place, may
not be there solely to enter into the life of the mind. While everyone
is thinking great thoughts and doing great research over the summer,
professors manage to get themselves believing that the job of a professor
at a great university is to be an intellectual. What they forget easily
enough is who is paying the bills. And, they forget the real agenda of
those who are paying the bills. They are reminded soon enough.
Students want courses to be easy, not bother them too much with
work outside the classroom, and help them get a good job. Of course,
I am oversimplifying here. Many students attend Yale to learn what it
is that you, the professor, really know and want to teach. In 15 years
at Yale I met a number of them. I remember their names because there
weren’t that many. We can hope that all professors have met their
share of that type of student.
Most college students are 18-year-olds who are on their own for
the first time. They are more interested in exploring themselves and
their new freedoms than they are in working hard at intellectual
192 Teaching Minds
pursuits. Every university has underground lists, written by students,
about courses that are easy or professors who readily give good grades.
The real agenda of the majority of students is to take school just seriously
enough to graduate. If you offered them a diploma after 1 year,
most of them would take the deal.
This all brings me back to our aerospace friend. Why does he want
high schools to teach more math? Because he doesn’t want to teach it.
Teaching undergraduates becomes pleasurable at precisely the point
where you can teach the very courses this man teaches. He is teaching
highly technical courses, and, it is safe to assume, the students
who are taking those courses are there with serious intentions. They
want to become engineers and they want to know what he knows. So
he may well enjoy teaching them. But he certainly would not enjoy
teaching them calculus. There is a big difference in the experience of
teaching when you are teaching people who plan on working in your
field some day and when you are teaching a required course that students
wish they weren’t being made to take.
But why does it matter what this man enjoys teaching?
In the ideal university, the one professors at top-tier universities
would have if it were possible, professors, who consider themselves
primarily to be researchers in very specialized subfields, would teach
only work that directly related to their actual research or was important
for preparing future researchers in their field.
Professors at Yale get to be professors at Yale because they are either
potentially or actually the best in the world at something. While this
might not actually be true, it is certainly supposed to be true. When
a professor is proposed to be promoted (or hired for the first time) as
a full professor at Yale, the chair of his department must address a
meeting of all the other chairs and high officials and explain why the
professor in question is indeed the best in the world at what he does.
To do this, the chairs often have to define what he does extremely
narrowly to have it be at all credible. Isn’t there someone at Stanford
or Princeton who is just as good or, perish the thought, even better
than the candidate you propose? There better not be or this candidate
won’t get voted in. So, somewhere in every professor’s mind is the idea
that he or she is the best at something or for assistant professors, soon
will become the best at something.
Under this kind of pressure, and this kind of egotism, a professor’s
first and foremost concern is attaining and maintaining that exalted
How the Best Universities Inadvertently Ruin Our Schools 193
status. Teaching future professors in one’s own field helps maintain
that status, so graduate students pursuing Ph.D.s are quite often taken
very seriously. Teaching graduate seminars is intellectually stimulating,
may help with one’s own research, and is therefore worthwhile
to do. But undergraduates are a whole different story. Very small percentages
of them actually will become researchers in one’s field. Professors
are in the fame game. They worry about the prestige of their
department and themselves. They care about this because they won’t
attract high-quality Ph.D. students unless they maintain that prestige.
Undergraduates do not figure into this equation. Except they do pay
the bills.
So professors have to teach them. And, someone has to teach those
damn introductory courses that typically have hundreds of students
in them. Why do they have hundreds of students in them? Because
no one wants to teach them so making the sections as large as possible
means fewer professors will have to teach them. And, why does our
aerospace guy want high school to teach the math his students need?
Because he certainly doesn’t want to do it. He wants to teach esoteric
courses about composites, which is his field. Teaching basic math
would be worse than teaching Introduction to Aerospace. A great deal
of work and no enhancement to prestige at all. And, there is a bigger
problem. He can’t teach math because the structure of the university
doesn’t allow it.
Math is taught by the math department. If everyone had to learn
math, there would have to be an awful lot of math professors. While
that sounds OK, it really isn’t possible. Remember, at top universities
everyone has to be a superstar or close. Math isn’t that hot of a
field. There aren’t large numbers of people wanting to become math
professors, nor is there a great deal of funding for math research. Remember,
without outside funding as a possibility, a top university isn’t
going to want to create a big department. You get big departments,
and lots of professors, only in fields that pay for themselves through
outside funding. So math has to stay small. Solution—make sure math
is taught in high school.
This solution makes everyone in the university happy. And, it
shouldn’t be a big surprise that the original idea of requiring algebra
of high school students came from the president of Harvard and
the chairman of the Princeton Math Department (in 1892). It has always
been in the university’s interest to push teaching the basics that
194 Teaching Minds
are needed in college into the hands of the high schools so that the
university professor’s life is easier and involves less teaching that he
doesn’t want to do.
So, of course, professors want high schools to do a better job. The
question is why high schools should care about what universities want
at all. High schools have their own problems, or should have, but they
have been convinced to ignore their problems and focus on the problems
that universities have.
Parents demand that high schools prepare their kids for college,
which really means help them get into college. Gradually the high
school curriculum has become one giant entrance test for college. The
idea that someone might not want to go to college seems very odd to
most people. So, if the colleges say more math, then more math it is.
But colleges are not saying more math in good faith. They are just having
high schools teach what they don’t want to teach.
But there are about 3,000 colleges in the United States and only
about 50 top-tier research universities. What Yale needs may not be
what the other colleges need. Why, then, is the tail wagging the dog?
Yale says jump and everybody asks how high. Yale sets the rules. Yale
says 3 years of math, and 3 years of math it is, even though higher
math will not, or at least should not, come up in most college classes.
Does Yale know it is doing this? Do the faculty understand that
by requiring that the high schools teach mathematics, they are causing
massive numbers of dropouts and making learning a very stressful
experience for most high school students?
I think the answer is no, but even if they did know it, they would
do nothing about it. They have a university to run and they simply
cannot change the way they operate. I can explain this with a story,
this time from Columbia University.
I once had the opportunity to create courses for Columbia University
that would be put online through a business I started that
was funded (and then abruptly terminated when the dot com boom
busted) by venture capitalists. I interviewed various professors at Columbia
in order to decide which courses to put online. I wasn’t trying
to simply copy the courses they had but was trying to build learn-bydoing
versions of them that would be more engaging than the usual
lecture course and would try to teach real-world skills rather than the
usual stuff one gets in an introductory course.
We decided to build an economics course and talked at length with
the chairman of the Economics Department. We decided to simulate
How the Best Universities Inadvertently Ruin Our Schools 195
the experience that this man had had working as an economic advisor
in the White House. The students played that role in the simulation
and learned how economics is used in the real world.
All of this is really beside the point, however. I learned, during
these conversations, that at Columbia calculus is required in order to
be an economics major. I wondered about this, since the courses we
were building never had any complicated math in them, so it seemed
that calculus wasn’t something that came up regularly in real-world
economics.
I asked and was told that my observation was right and that calculus
was required in order to ensure that there wouldn’t be too many
economics majors. As an insider in the university world, I understood
this remark, but it needs some explaining for outsiders.
Columbia doesn’t have an undergraduate business major. And, in
New York City there are a lot of students interested in business. Columbia
and other Ivy League schools think that business isn’t an academic
subject, so students shouldn’t learn it until they go to graduate school.
Columbia does have a well-respected business school, but, as I pointed
out, no one really wants to teach undergraduates so they certainly
aren’t lobbying to teach them. (This is also true of medical schools and
law schools and it is why you never see courses for undergraduates in
those fields despite the evident interest of the undergraduates.)
So, potential businesspeople at Columbia need to major in something
and economics seems to them to be a reasonable second choice.
(I am not really sure that it is a good choice but these are 18-year-olds
making these decisions.) Thus, the Economics Department is flooded
with potential majors. This seems like it would be a good thing,
doesn’t it? Students want to study what you teach. Isn’t that good?
Well, not really.
Let us assume we have an economics faculty of 20 people, each of
whom teaches three courses a year. So we can offer 60 courses. Sounds
like a good number. But this has to include graduate seminars, and
the faculty will be lobbying to have more of these and more advanced
courses where they can teach their own specialty, as I have said. But
majors need courses too. They might need 20 or more. This doesn’t
leave a lot for introductory courses unless the department runs enormous
lecture courses that have hundreds of students. Now departments
know that such courses are pretty awful things and they try to
keep them down to a dull roar. But if you have hundreds of students
wanting to take your courses, and you were set up with just enough
196 Teaching Minds
faculty to handle 60 courses with fewer than 20 students in each class,
you have a problem. Multiple sections of courses require multiple faculty
and maybe even, God forbid, heavier teaching loads.
Simply put, if there are too many majors, all the specialty courses
will overflow and you might need twice the faculty to handle them.
The university is not going to let you hire twice the faculty in order to
handle them. Why not?
Tenure is why not. Once you hire tenured faculty, they stay forever.
Tenure is another one of those ideas that sounds a lot better than
it is. One of its downsides, and it has many, is that you can’t easily
hire new faculty when you need to. There may be a jump in economics
majors this year, but who is to say that this will be true next year?
Universities move slowly.
So, the current economics faculty would have to teach more courses.
They simply do not want to do that. They want to go back to their
offices and do research and write books and consult with the government
or big business, should they call.
Voila!
Calculus.
That will keep the little buggers out. If that doesn’t work, advanced
calculus. Who cares if those courses have little relevance for economics?
They can always say it might come up some day. (It might.) Or
they can say it teaches rigorous thinking. The real reason is to keep the
numbers down. This is also why biology and chemistry are required
courses for pre-med students, why statistics is required for psychology
majors, and so on. Most departments will not admit to this, but that’s
why those things are there.
You never see this kind of thing in departments that have too few
students. Too few students is the kind of problem that gets your department
shut down. So, linguistics departments, which were started
when linguistics was in fashion in the 1960s, are always under threat
of shut down. They won’t be requiring calculus. But they would if
their situation changed. Instead, what they are doing is trying to explain
why linguistics is calculus.
Huh?
When I arrived at Northwestern, undergraduates were required to
take a math course in order to graduate. There could have been any
number of reasons for this requirement—none of them having to do
with interests or needs of the undergraduates.
How the Best Universities Inadvertently Ruin Our Schools 197
In fact, diverting from that story for a moment, my secretary, who
never went to college, insisted that her daughters go, so one of them
found herself in an art history course that she hated and complained
to her mother who in turn complained to me. Why does she have to
take art history? She is a business major (at Hofstra), for God’s sake,
said my secretary.
Obviously, I replied, there are art history professors who are worried
that no one will take their course and they will be fired (tenure
doesn’t apply in that case as tenured faculty can be fired if their department
is shut down), so they have lobbied successfully to require it.
She thought that was stupid and so do I. Now back to Northwestern.
Clearly the mathematics professors at Northwestern were similarly
concerned. Of course, they made their argument, the same way
the Hofstra art history professors did, one would assume, about these
courses being necessary for a liberal education, but the real argument
was about saving the department and everyone knew it.
But at Northwestern, this math argument had been made a long
time ago. What was new was that linguistics, at Northwestern, had
been classified as a math course! The reasons are clear enough. No one
was taking linguistics at Northwestern and the linguists were scared.
How they won the argument that linguistics was math (and thus an
alternative to the required math course) is anybody’s guess. Just remember
that none of this is being done with the interests of the students
as the real agenda item.
If you believe, as universities do, that the most important thing
you can do as an administrator is recruit superstars to make your university
great, then there is a consequence to all this. The students suffer.
At first this seems an odd idea. How could a student be harmed by
recruiting a superstar? Well, it depends on the university.
At MIT, where students are different than they are at Northwestern
by quite a bit, there are a number of superstars that I know quite well.
Two of them, whom I will not name but are about as famous as a professor
can be, are people I have heard lecture many times. I have never
understood what they were talking about in any of those lectures. Now,
bear in mind that I know their fields very well so I should have been
able to understand them. Also, bear in mind that I was a terrible student,
which means my attention fades fast when I am bored or irritated.
Since I know these two men well enough, I can tell you that neither
is particularly worried about being understood. They have been
198 Teaching Minds
acclaimed by one and all to be brilliant, and many brilliant people
think that if you can’t understand what they are thinking about, then
it is your fault not theirs. They are talking about complex issues that
interest them, and you should be able to follow along, and if you can’t
then you are a dope.
This works at MIT, sort of. No MIT student happily admits to not
understanding what the professor is saying. They all muddle through
as best they can and are usually awestruck by even being in the presence
of these great men, much less being able to take a course from
them. Understanding what they said, or, worse, actually being able
to make use of what they said, seems unimportant by comparison.
You would take a course given by Einstein, wouldn’t you, even if you
didn’t understand physics? That is the attitude.
This attitude works at MIT. But it fails miserably at lesser schools.
I took advanced calculus from a superstar when I was an undergraduate.
I didn’t understand anything. I was a math major, but that
course caused me to lose interest in math and start thinking about
other things. I went to see this superstar and asked him for advice. We
had a great conversation. He was a very smart guy. He pointed me in
a direction that helped me make some important decisions. As a oneon-one
advisor he was great. But the system made him teach, which
really wasn’t something he could do very well.
As luck would have it, years later when I was chairman of the
Computer Science Department at Yale, he was one of my faculty. So,
in a sense he wound up working for me (to the extent that any faculty
member actually works for the chair, which is really not the case).
He was a great man. He inspired many a graduate student to become
a professor. He was fun to talk to. But he couldn’t teach at all.
At Yale we made sure that he taught only specialty courses, which was
fine with him. What he was doing teaching advanced calculus that year
long ago is anybody’s guess. My guess is that as he was the chairman of
the Math Department at the time, either he got stuck with it because
there was nobody else or he was trying to prove a point in order to induce
senior faculty to come down from on high and teach the basics.
Either way it was a terrible idea.
Prestigious universities that recruit superstars are not, at the same
time, recruiting teachers. They are just hoping someone can and will
teach. But no one cares that much.
I once had dinner with a man who was on the Board of Trustees of
the University of Illinois. I asked him how he liked being on the board
How the Best Universities Inadvertently Ruin Our Schools 199
of a fraudulent institution. He reacted the way you might expect and
demanded an explanation. I asked him if he thought the average student
attending the University of Illinois was going there because she
figured after graduation she would be able to get a job.
He agreed.
I then asked whether job skills were in fact taught to the majority
of students there and whether the faculty, by and large, actually had
ever worked anyplace but a university.
He laughed.
It is OK that Yale hires only intellectuals and only the best of the
best because Yale is not a state-run institution and Yale can do what it
wants. No one is making anyone go to Yale. Caveat emptor.
But a state spending a great deal of money on its flagship educational
institution ought to know what it is getting.
This is what it is getting—Yale.
There are no faculty members at the University of Illinois in any
mainstream department (I don’t mean agriculture, for example) who
do not consider themselves the equal of, and in some cases better
than, their Yale colleagues.
When I went to Northwestern, I was given the right to hire a variety
of faculty in a number of disciplines that related to learning.
When you recruit faculty, you mostly consider how your institution
might look better to someone at another institution. So, Northwestern
doesn’t recruit from Harvard or MIT (or Yale!) very often because Chicago
doesn’t seem a more appealing place than Boston to an academic
and Northwestern isn’t a step up. And, Northwestern doesn’t recruit
from California in general, for the same reason.
So, it’s the University of Illinois!
I recruited heavily from Illinois because Chicago looks more appealing
than Champaign-Urbana to most people, so I had something
to offer, and the faculty there had already bought into the idea of living
in the Midwest. Moreover, in the academic world, the University
of Illinois is considered to a top-ranked institution with a faculty every
bit as good as Yale’s, maybe better in some departments.
So, why is this bad?
It is bad for the students of the state of Illinois who worked hard
to get into the state’s best university only to discover that its faculty
think they are at Yale.
Of course, they know they are not at Yale, but they are competing
in that world nevertheless. They also do research and publish and
200 Teaching Minds
work hard to be famous superstars. They are in exactly the same game
as their Yale counterparts, so it follows that they don’t want to teach
either.
But the numbers are much bigger at Illinois. Classes are larger and
faculty have to teach more classes. So these same people, who would
readily move to an institution that didn’t treat them like this, are stuck
competing with their Yale colleagues and, at the same time, having so
many more undergraduates to deal with.
Guess who loses?
And, I haven’t even started to discuss the idea that most students
at Illinois do not go there to become professors or intellectuals, or
hobnob with the best and brightest. The faculty think they are (or
ought to be) at Yale, but the students do not. The students want to
get jobs 4 years later. Good luck with that. That is not what Yale is for.
I was told that explicitly one day, by the way. I had to give a short
talk to entering freshmen at Yale when I was the department chair.
The idea was to extol the virtues of majoring in the field represented
by the chair. Each chair gave a short speech. Mine, as usual, was the
shortest. Major in computer science—get a job. That was my speech.
I was booed.
I was booed by the freshmen, who by this time at Yale had been
there maybe 5 minutes but had already absorbed the zeitgeist of the
place. Yale was for thinkers not workers.
By the way, that was in 1982 or so. All our computer science graduates
went to work at Microsoft in those years. There were lots of millionaire
alums not too long after. (Presumably, not those who were booing.)
They wouldn’t have booed at Illinois, and that is the point. Yale
is not the problem unless you realize that it sets the direction for every
other university in the country. It doesn’t do this by itself and it
doesn’t do it intentionally. Nevertheless, it ruins the chances that Illinois
graduates will receive a reasonably practical education that actually
might get them jobs or teach them how to live in the real world.
So, we have created a system that values heavy intellectuals and
gives them a place to do their thing. Is this bad? How could it be bad?
It certainly isn’t bad for the intellectuals. But it is bad for the students.
Not necessarily for the students at Yale, although there are certainly
unhappy students there. It is bad for the society at large. Students
don’t need to major in subjects unless they intend to become professionals
in those subjects. Actually, they need to intend to be professional
researchers in those subjects, since the faculty really don’t know
How the Best Universities Inadvertently Ruin Our Schools 201
how to or care to think about their subject as anything other than a
research area. Making a real living with what they teach is not on any
faculty member’s mind. But students go to college precisely because
they think they will get a job afterward that college will have prepared
them for. It just isn’t true.
Teaching how to survive in the real world is simply not the job of
an Ivy League professor. This is too bad because there are professors
who really do like to teach.
One day I decided that I needed some news video from the major
networks for a project I wanted to start. I called the president of
Northwestern and asked him if he knew anyone at the networks, and
he told me that the former president of one of them was now on our
journalism faculty.
So I called him. He said he would help me but only on one condition.
He wanted me to sit in on the class he taught. This was really an
odd request, and especially hard for me to agree to given how much I
hate classes and classrooms. But I really wanted that video.
Professors almost never ask other professors to watch them teach.
One reason is that they usually aren’t all that proud of their teaching
and don’t want to hear the criticism that inevitably follows. Also, it
really isn’t something they want to talk about even if they are good at
it. It has minor value in a professor’s world.
The class I attended was the most extraordinary I had ever witnessed.
This former head of a network previously had been head of the
news division. He had turned his class into an all-day simulation of a
network newsroom. Students were charged with preparing and producing
the evening news. They got their information from various sources
that were used by the networks and prepared stories, played the roles
of on air reporter, news writer, anchor, camera person, editors, and so
on. They finished and went on air at 5.00. At 5:30 they watched to see
what the networks had done that day and compared and judged their
own success. The professor was there all day guiding them.
I thought this class was fantastic and said so. I then said it would
be a loss when he left Northwestern in a couple of years. He said he
had no intention of leaving, but I knew what he was doing would
never be tolerated.
Why not?
Let me count the reasons. First, he was teaching doing and practice,
and not theory and analysis. While the rest of the world knows
that doing and practice is how you learn, this is the exact opposite of
202 Teaching Minds
how teaching occurs in a great university. (There are exceptions to this,
of course. In engineering, agriculture, and even in journalism, practice
does occur. But it always occurs in the presence of lots of theory.)
University professors are not practitioners. Usually they don’t
know a thing about how what they teach actually is used in the real
world, never having been in the real world themselves, so they have
created a culture where theories and ideas are considered to be more
important than simply being able to do something. So one reason his
class would have to go is that it inevitably would be seen as threatening
to the other faculty.
Another reason that it threatens the other faculty is that it is a
lot of work to do what he did. He was there all day. Professors teach
3 hours a week, 6 if they aren’t superstars. No one wants to see a new
standard of teaching created that is both practical and takes a long
time to do. When would the professors do their research and write
their books? This man didn’t have that agenda. He just wanted to
teach. There is no room for that in a top-tier university.
And, how would this class fit in a student’s schedule? Students can’t
spend all day at something without missing those important required
classes that meet 3 times a week for an hour. Totally consuming classes
that take all day, and may even take all week, cannot possibly exist.
Two years later this man was gone.
It is actually very difficult to change the way a university runs, and
this includes trying to change any aspect of how courses are offered
or structured.
I learned this when I took on the job of building a new West Coast
campus for Carnegie Mellon University. (By building, I mean designing
its offerings, not its buildings.) As I am an advocate of learning by
doing, in just the way our former network head was doing in his class,
I decided that there would be no courses, only projects, and that each
project would build on the one that preceded it. The administration
in Pittsburgh let me get away with this precisely because there were no
faculty hired in California and the Pittsburgh faculty wouldn’t much
notice what we were doing 2,000 miles away.
We had to lie to the registrar about what we were doing because
courses had to be in parallel to make it into their system and we
weren’t offering courses at all. The projects had to be labeled as courses,
but they varied in length (not every project takes the same amount
of time). These “courses” ran in sequence not parallel, so we basically
had to lie about it to get by the registrar.
How the Best Universities Inadvertently Ruin Our Schools 203
The students objected that there were no faculty around and were
no classes, so they felt cheated in some way and asked why they had
to show up at all. We replied that they didn’t, since all the materials
they needed were online anyway. The students were assigned mentors
who were on campus, but after a while students interacted with them
by instant message instead of walking down the hall even when the
students were on campus. The students started out hating what we
did and wound up loving it. These were students in master’s degree
programs and they were, in essence, simulating the jobs they were
preparing for.
Even the faculty in Pittsburgh came to appreciate what we were
doing in California. But you will never hear about it (except from me).
Carnegie Mellon will never brag about it or publicize it in any way.
Why not?
What I did is very threatening. At one point the provost, realizing
that since the program was online, in principle we could serve a lot of
students, asked me whether I was going to put Golden Arches over the
campus and say over a million served. Seemed a good idea to me. But
not to Carnegie Mellon. We don’t want to cheapen our brand name,
the provost told me.
In other words, if hundreds of thousands of people had Carnegie
Mellon degrees, how prestigious would such a degree be? These degrees
were in computer science, a field in which Carnegie Mellon is
number one or two in the world. But if too many people had these
degrees, the university’s prestige would go down, so whether or not
this was good educational practice, and the certifying boards certainly
thought it was, this was never going to happen.
I made the mistake of saying in an interview how well our experiment
was going, and was told by Carnegie Mellon to stop doing that.
It seemed that parents of undergraduates at Carnegie Mellon were
calling and asking why, if this method was so preferable to the usual
course-based method, it wasn’t being employed in Pittsburgh? Since
that could never happen—the professors would never allow it—I had
to stop giving interviews.
As I write this, the learn-by-doing master’s degree programs we
built are still running, but no more will be developed at Carnegie Mellon.
Eventually the ones I built will be shut down. The reason will be
that they employ teachers who teach (as mentors) all the time and
therefore don’t do research and that can’t be allowed. Not if you are in
the superstar prestige game.
204 Teaching Minds
Universities will not change until some equally prestigious online
university is developed that challenges their ability to attract students.
As long as students show up at Yale, and there is no danger there in the
foreseeable future, Yale does not have to change.
But Yale must understand what it is doing to the high school system.
It has to stop telling the high schools what to teach. It has to stop
talking about how high schools must prepare students for college.
That should not be its job. Yale has to accept the idea that students
will arrive at Yale “unprepared” for college. Making Yale’s admissions
process easier should not be the job of the high schools. Teaching the
subjects that superstars don’t want to teach should not be the job of
the high schools. High schools need to focus on the concerns and issues
of real students living in the real world. If Yale really believes in
algebra for its students, then it can teach algebra to all entering freshmen.
(Believe me, it never will.)
Until subjects cease to be the basis of the structure of universities,
there will be a big problem in education across the planet because everyone
everywhere assumes that university degrees are important. As
long as we assume this, and as long as we accept that what is taught
in high school will be determined by the universities, we are in serious
trouble. High schools have become college preparation centers and
thus no one learns anything but academic subjects in high school.
Cognitive processes must be the meat of high schools and should
be the basis of college as well. The top-tier colleges will not change and
maybe they shouldn’t. They can continue to be research universities
and specialize in producing the next generation of Nobel physicists or
literary scholars. Great scientists are nice and I am all for producing
them. But the 3,000 colleges in the United States are not all producing
great physicists. Still they teach chemistry and require mathematics
for no reason that anyone can remember.
If we don’t start thinking seriously about how to teach thinking,
as opposed to academic subjects, to the 99% of students who have no
intention of becoming scholars, we will all lose.
CHAPTER 14
What Can We Do About It?
Simple solutions seldom are. It takes a very unusual mind to
undertake analysis of the obvious.
—Alfred North Whitehead
What is obvious here? Schooling is broken. It needs to be rethought.
What can we build as an alternative? It is a simple question really. If
we had all the resources in the world and we really wanted to educate
our children, where education means teach them to think clearly,
live well-thought-out lives, and be able to pursue their dreams, what
would we build?
It is, of course, very difficult to think about replacing sacred institutions.
The only way I know to think about it, is as a thought
experiment. Just imagine that we lived in a different world, maybe a
Greek colony in the 1st century, and ask yourself how we might educate
our children in this environment, pretending that schools are the
one thing we cannot build for some reason. As we think about this,
we must not assume that what we teach in schools now needs to be
taught in some other way. We simply need to ask: What should one
teach children? while making no assumptions that what we have been
teaching is necessarily relevant.
To put this another way, the right question to ask is: What do children
need to be able to do, in order to function in the world they inhabit?
The next question is, of course, How would we teach children to do
those things?
Now admittedly I am prejudicing the answer here by simply leaving
out the word know. The usual question is, What should children
know? It is this question that leads people to make lists of things every
3rd-grader should know and allows school boards to create lists of
facts students need to be tested on. So, let’s leave that word out of the
discussion and see where it gets us.
205
206 Teaching Minds
A good place to start is to ask what a highly functioning adult can
do and moreover has to be able to do in order to live in this world.
When we ask this question, the phrase “21st-century skills” will not
come up. Every time that phrase comes up, somehow the answer
turns out to include algebra and calculus and science, which, the last
I heard, were 19th-century skills too.
In fact, let’s not talk about particular centuries at all. To see why,
I want to diverge for a moment into a discussion of the maritime industry,
a subject with which I have become more fascinated over the
years. What did a mariner from Ancient Greece have in common with
his modern counterpart in terms of abilities?
The answer is an obsession with weather, ship maintenance, leadership
and organization, navigation, planning, goal prioritization,
and handling of emergencies.
Effective mariners from ancient times would have in common
with those of today is an understanding of how to operate their ships,
the basic laws of weather, tides, navigation, and other relevant issues
in the physical world, and an ability to make decisions well when
circumstances are difficult. They also would have to know how to get
along with fellow workers, how to manage the people who report to
them, as well as basic laws of commerce and defense.
In fact, the worlds they inhabit, from an educational point of view,
that is, from thinking about what to teach and how to teach it, would
be nearly identical except for one thing: how to operate and maintain
the equipment. Their ships were, of course, quite different.
So, let’s reformulate this question that seems to haunt every modern-day
pundit on education (usually politicians or newspaper people).
What are 21st-century skills? Can this question be transformed (for
mariners) into what does a 21st-century mariner need to be educated
about that his Ancient Greek counterpart was not educated about?
The answer, it seems obvious to me, is 21st-century equipment
and procedures: engines, navigation devices, particular political situations,
computers, and so on. But, and this is an important “but,” none
of this stuff is the real issue in the education of a mariner. The real
issue is decision making. What one has to make a decision about is
secondary to the issue of knowing how to make a decision at all.
You can learn about a piece of equipment or a procedure by apprenticeship.
Start as a helper and move on gradually to being an expert.
But this is not what school emphasizes. School typically attempts
to intellectualize these subjects. Experts write books about the theory
What Can We Do About It? 207
of how something works and the next we know, schools are teaching
that theory as a prelude to actually doing the work. Scholarship has
been equated with education. You do not have to know calculus to repair
an engine. You might want to know calculus to design an engine,
but that is no excuse for forcing every engineer to learn it. Similarly,
you do not have to know theoretical physics to master the seas. Mariners
do know physics, of course—practical physics about load balancing,
for example—but they do not have to know how to derive the
equations that describe it.
What I am saying here about the shipping industry holds true for
every other area of life as well. Twenty-first-century skills are no different
from 1st-century skills. Interestingly, Petronius, a 1st-century
Roman author, complained that Roman schools were teaching “young
men to grow up to be idiots, because they neither see nor hear one
single thing connected with the usual circumstances of everyday life.”
In other words, schools have always been about educating the elite in
things that don’t matter much to anyone. This is fine as long as the
elite don’t have to work.
But today the elite have extrapolated from what they learned at
Harvard and decided that every single schoolchild needs to know the
same stuff. So, they whine and complain about math scores going
down without once asking why this could possible matter. Math is not
a 21st-century skill any more than it was a 1st-century skill. Algebra
is nice for those who need it, and useless for those who don’t. Skill
in mathematics is certainly not going to make any industrial nation
more competitive with any other, no matter how many times our “experts”
assert that it will. One wonders how politicians can even say
this junk, but they all do.
Why?
My own guess is that, apart from the fact that they all took these
subjects in school (and were probably bad at them—you don’t become
a politician or a newspaper person because you were great at calculus),
there is another issue: They don’t know what else to suggest.
Thinking about the 1st-century will help us figure out what the
real issues are. People then and people now had to learn how to function
in the world they inhabit. This means being able to communicate,
get along with others, function economically and physically,
and in general reason about issues that confront them. It didn’t mean
then, and doesn’t mean now, science and mathematics, at least not for
95% of the population.
208 Teaching Minds
How do we choose who studies the elite subjects? We don’t.
Offer choices. Stop making lists of what one must know and start
putting students into situations where they can learn from experience
while attempting to accomplish goals that they set out for themselves,
just as people did before there were schools. Education has
always been the same: learning from experience with help from wiser
mentors. School has screwed that all up and it is time to go back to
basics.
So the “what” question is simple. We should teach children what
adults know that enables them to function in the world they inhabit.
This has much less to do with academic knowledge than it has to do
with practical, and often subconscious, knowledge of how to do a variety
of things in the social and physical and economic world we have
created.
Now let’s address the question of how to teach these things.
John Dewey noted, in 1916, that he had been talking about learning
by doing for a long time, but nobody ever listened to him about
it—which was exactly his point. He was frustrated about changing the
system. In 1916! Imagine how he would feel today.
It is not unreasonable to ask why the system never changes, and
who is making sure that it won’t change. The answer is obvious. So
many people have vested interests in things staying as they are that
the system basically cannot change—at least not of its own free will.
The President of the United States could help make the changes
needed, but he won’t. Here is a piece from then-Senator Obama’s
education speech given during his campaign in Dayton, Ohio, in 2008:
We will help schools integrate technology into their curriculum
so we can make sure public school students are fluent in the
digital language of the 21st-century economy. We’ll teach our
students not only math and science, but teamwork and critical
thinking and communication skills, because that’s how we’ll
make sure they’re prepared for today’s workplace.
Some advisor of his had read my writings and was quoting me on that
one. I usually say reasoning and not critical thinking, but this is taken
from my many speeches on education. And what has the President
actually done? He said in that same speech:
What Can We Do About It? 209
And don’t tell us that the only way to teach a child is to spend
most of the year preparing him to fill in a few bubbles on a
standardized test. I don’t want teachers to be teaching to the
test. I don’t want them uninspired and I don’t want our students
uninspired.
Uh huh. Did he change No Child Left Behind? No. Of course not. Testing
dominates education as much as it ever did. All presidents are the
same, really. They can’t fight the vested interests, or won’t. I will avoid
figuring out why here, although, once again, John Dewey had much
to say on the subject of how governments stay in power by making
sure that people aren’t really educated.
We can’t count on politicians, but here is what we can do. We can
build it and then we can work inside or outside the system in such a
way that allows people to be able to come.
But how do you build a new high school system? Very simple: one
curriculum at a time. The trick is making sure that you put the curricula
online. We cannot change education one school at a time. Many
good schools have been created over the years. Today, John Dewey’s
Lab School (in Chicago), which was entirely a learning-by-doing place,
is now a college prep school. Having a few reasonable schools will not
change the system. A curriculum offered online is available to everyone
and eventually can provide an alternative to a system that offers
boring and mindless education.
In addition, online means choices. Once we create dozens, maybe
hundreds, of curricula from which to choose, students should be
able to learn anything they want to learn without regard to whether
a teacher for that curriculum or other students interested in that curriculum
happen to live nearby.
So, in an ideal world, what would these curricula be about?
They can be about anything that one can learn to do in the real
world (which would leave out all the traditional academic subjects).
They should teach teaching cognitive processes, of course, but one
should not endeavor to teach cognitive processes specifically, that is,
apart from their possible use. So, it is the use of these processes in
some area of real life that would be the intent of any full-year, storycentered
curriculum.
These curricula and any others that we would design have the
following characteristics:
210 Teaching Minds
1. They must be learn-by-doing curricula consisting of series of
projects inside coherent stories about life in some aspect of
the real world.
2. They must be delivered on the web. Students should work on
projects where the background and help are web delivered.
They would submit their work to mentors and receive
feedback online.
3. Mentors in the curricula would include parents, online
subject matter experts worldwide, local experts, and teachers
trained to be mentors. Mentoring, unlike teaching, is not
about providing information that can be found easily in
books but about helping students through a problem without
giving them the answer. Mentors point students in the right
direction and react to their work as it progresses.
4. Students should, on a regular basis (sometimes weekly,
sometimes more often), submit work products related to each
project for evaluation and feedback. Students would submit
their work many times to achieve increasing mastery and get
continuing feedback. There should be no competency tests,
only the continual monitoring of performance.
5. Each curriculum should be designed by a panel of experts in
a given field. The curriculum should provide a simulation of
what life might be like in that field. For example, students
might spend the year working legal cases, or starting a
business, or designing roads and bridges.
6. Students should be encouraged to work in virtual teams,
learning to deal with others to produce results.
7. Choice must be a staple of the curricula. There can be no
single set of standard requirements. Instead, students should
be able to select the curricula they wish to participate in.
Their records would list what deliverables they have created
in their chosen curricula.
8. Curricula must be designed around projects with clear,
meaningful, achievable goals. They must be designed
carefully so to incorporate all the key basic skills like reading,
writing, reasoning, researching, calculating, computing, and
so on, in a systematic and natural way.
What Can We Do About It? 211
Here are some curricula that have been proposed that would meet student’s
interests head on, that would be able to teach them to be good
at a variety of skills (including all 12 cognitive processes), and that
would make the students employable as well:
• Criminal Justice
• Sports Management
• The Music Business
• The Legal Office
• Military Readiness
• The Fashion Business
• Aerospace Engineering
• Computer Networking
• Homeland Security
• Medical Technology
• Construction
• Computer Programming
• Television Production
• Real Estate Management
• Architecture
• The Banking Industry
• Automotive Engineering
• Architecture
• Biotechnology
• Film Making
• Travel Planning
• Financial Management
• Parenting and Childcare
• Starting an Online Business
• Urban Planning
• Hotel Management
• Health Sciences
• The Food Industry
• Graphic Arts
• Communication
• Veterinary Science
• Marketing
• Telecommunications
• Scientific Reasoning
212 Teaching Minds
Obviously, this list could be much longer. The intention here is to
make any student excited about learning because what he or she wants
to learn about is offered. The trick for the designers of the curricula is
to make sure that students’ interest is grabbed and maintained for a
full year, while teaching them how to hone their capabilities at the 12
cognitive processes.
What are the obstacles?
What would prevent this from happening? Really there are only
four issues:
Finding people who know how to build the curricula
Paying the people who will build the curricula
Convincing schools or other entities to offer the curricula
Training teachers to be mentors in these curricula
Smart, articulate, people who are well organized and can write
well can easily learn to do the bulk of the work involved in building
a course as long as they have access to experts and are guided by
experienced designers, and the project is run by someone how knows
how to run projects. Finding people who can do this work is not a
problem. Being able to pay them for the year or so that it takes to do
the work is the real issue.
This leads us to discuss who would pay for this. The answer should
be the federal government, but it is clear that that will never happen.
The federal government, as any interested citizen knows, is influenced
mightily by big business, especially when big business has profits to
protect.
Companies that produce textbooks and companies that produce
and grade exams will not stand by and see their revenues drop. Any
alternative curriculum that did not use textbooks and did not use
standardized tests would be anathema to them. Companies that have
billions of dollars in revenues from textbooks know how to encourage
politicians to protect their interests.
What about the testing industry? A recent report says that “the
testing industry is somewhat secretive.” I wonder why. But sometimes
they do report revenue. To give an example, the revenue of Kaplan
Inc., which is just one of many test preparation companies, was over
$1 billion in 2008. Who owns Kaplan? The Washington Post. So while
the testing companies make great profits, the nation’s newspapers,
having a vested interest in those profits, tout testing as the country’s
What Can We Do About It? 213
salvation. The most visible touter is the Secretary of Education, who
gives eloquent speeches about more rigorous testing that are, of course,
printed in The Washington Post.
Why would President Obama want to do the same thing as President
Bush did, especially when he campaigned against No Child Left
Behind, as I pointed out earlier? The answer is simple. There is lots of
money invested in testing by powerful players. Kids are no one’s main
concern.
So the money for the new plan will not be coming from the
government.
What about from business? Venture capital, for example?
Is a new kind of high school offered online likely to be a successful
business venture? One mentor in the story-centered curriculum can
handle between 20 and 50 students, depending on the mentor’s experience.
Assuming that the students pay tuition that covers the mentor’s
salary, which means they need to pay at least $3,000 a year, more
or less, in tuition, it shouldn’t cost anything to run. Charge larger tuitions
and there will be profits. Initial investment is about $2 million
to build a curriculum, but enough students paying reasonable tuitions
will pay that investment back quickly enough. So, is this a big business
opportunity?
Actually I doubt it. I think that it is a big opportunity for universities
that traditionally charge large tuitions. We have had a great deal
of success with master’s degrees, for example. But universities typically
don’t invest $2 million in anything, even if it does have great upside
potential. When Carnegie Mellon University made that investment in
its West Coast campus (where I was designing the curriculum), it did
so without quite knowing it was doing so because the person in charge
didn’t tell the University officials what he was up to. Universities typically
don’t think about investing money in order to make money in
the daily enterprise. Businesses do think that way, of course, but businesses
have trouble starting universities that are accredited. I worked for
Trump University, which supposedly was going to do exactly that, but
they never could raise enough money or figure out how to be accredited.
So there is a potentially very big business in master’s degrees, but
it needs some well-financed and prescient people to make it happen.
High schools are another story. I actually do not believe that business
will invest in online high schools whose mission is to overthrow
the existing system. Venture capitalists are not revolutionaries. They
tend to follow the herd in whatever they do and there is no herd in
214 Teaching Minds
education except the one promoting more testing. They certainly do
invest in that.
So we are left with appealing to people who actually care about
kids and their education. Money isn’t and shouldn’t be the allure here.
This means that the saviors of education will have to be wealthy individuals
or foundations started by wealthy individuals.
The health sciences curriculum that we built was funded by the
Ewing Kauffman Foundation. We built it using our not-for-profit company,
Engines for Education. I really believe that no alternative to the
nonprofit model funded by wealthy people exists. We just have to find
people who care about education. They are in short supply, and they
typically aren’t the wealthy people who make pronouncements about
education, but I am hopeful that they are out there.
I wouldn’t mind being wrong about anything I have said here. The
federal government could get taken over by people who actually care
about kids and not votes.
How do we convince schools to offer these curricula once they
have been developed? It won’t be easy. There aren’t that many schools
run by people who realize that the system is broken. But they do exist,
however. The real problem is not so much convincing the head of
a private school or the superintendent of a school district. It is more
about convincing parents who fundamentally do not understand education,
or teachers who have taught what they have always taught and
really don’t want to learn new skills.
And, in addition, there are all those state standards. The first thing
that any school that wants to use our curriculum has to do is to see
how they can map what we will teach into their state’s standards. If
the state standards specify 2 years of algebra, we are out of luck. If
they have vague science standards, we are in better shape. Either way,
the state standards, passed by all those brilliant state legislatures that
know all there is to know about what should be taught in high school,
inhibit real change in the system.
So we need motivated heads of schools or school systems, in states
that have flexible standards, where parents who hold views about why
school was better in their day do not have to be listened to. Do these
exist?
Sure.
The last issue is training teachers to mentor. We do this by having
teachers be students in a curriculum mentored by others who have
experience in that curriculum. Mentoring does not come naturally to
What Can We Do About It? 215
people who have been teaching in the usual way. But they pick it up
and often find that they like it better.
Here is Lynn Carter, one of the first mentors we trained to teach
in this new way at CMU’s West Coast campus. He is a professor of
software engineering at Carnegie Mellon University.
It has taken me a while to figure out how to undo about 25 years
of teaching experience that was standing in front of a room and
talking, but I really like it. I enjoy interacting with students. As
much as I enjoy standing in front of students and talking, it is
much more satisfying to be dealing with smaller groups, more of
a one-on-one interaction.
Professors often complain that no students come to see them
during their office hours. That isn’t a problem with us here.
How did we teach Professor Carter to mentor Socratically? It wasn’t
trivial to do, but it didn’t take that long either. Once a teacher gets
the idea that his job is not telling but helping, he gets into the swing
of it fairly easily. Training teachers to teach in the kinds of SCCs we
propose for high school is more an issue of familiarizing them with
the content, which will differ considerably from what they have been
teaching. Handholding comes naturally to most people because they
have been doing that kind of teaching all their lives with siblings and
children. Lecturing is not a natural human activity and teachers are
easily dissuaded from doing it as long as they are not being presented
with a classroom of listeners.
In the end, the real question is this: Why do we still have schools?
This is a little like asking why we still have religious institutions.
In fact, it is a lot like asking that question because you will get the
same reactions. People get used to the institutions that have always
been a part of their lives. The fact is that these institutions were created
in a different time when knowledge was harder to come by and
the economy was quite different.
Religion is not my issue. Should we still have schools?
Instead of answering this question by listing all the good things
that schools provide—no one would argue that a literate population
is a bad thing, for example—I will turn the question around: What is
bad about having schools?
Here is a list of what is bad. Following the list, I will explain what
is bad about these things (assuming it isn’t obvious).
216 Teaching Minds
Schools emphasize competition.
Schools make kids stressed.
Schools know the right answers.
Schools enable bullying and peer pressure.
Schools stifle curiosity.
Schools choose the subjects for students.
Schools have classrooms.
Schools give grades.
Schools provide certification.
Schools confine children.
Schools claim that academics are the winners.
Schools do not value practical skills.
Schools cause students to want to please teachers.
Schools cause students to question their self-worth.
Schools are run by politicians.
Governments use education for repression.
Discovery is not valued in school.
Boredom is seen as a bad thing in school.
Competition: Why should school be a competitive event? Why do
we ask how a kid is doing in school? Learning in life outside of school is
not a competitive event. We learn what we choose to know in real life.
Stress: When 6-year-olds are stressed about going to school, you
know that something is wrong. Is learning in real life stressful? Stress
can’t be helping kids learn. What kid wouldn’t happily skip school on
any given day? What does this tell us about the experience?
Right answers: School teaches that there are right answers. The
teacher knows them. The test makers know them. Now you have to
know them. But in real life, there are very few right answers. Life isn’t
mathematics. Thinking about how to behave in a situation, planning
your day or your life, plotting a strategy for your company or your
country—no right answers.
Bullying and peer pressure: You wouldn’t have to have say no to
drugs or cigarettes campaigns if kids didn’t go to school. In school there
are always other kids telling you how to dress, how to act, how to be
cool. Why do we want kids’ peer groups to be the true teachers of
What Can We Do About It? 217
children? Being left out terrorizes children. Why do we allow this to
happen by creating places that foster this behavior?
Stifling of curiosity: Isn’t it obvious that learning is really about
curiosity? Adults learn about things they want to learn about. Before
the age of 6, prior to school, one kid becomes a dinosaur specialist,
while another knows all about dog breeds. Outside of school, people
drive their own learning. Schools eliminate this natural behavior.
Subjects chosen for you: Why algebra, physics, economics,
and U.S. history? Because those subjects were pretty exciting to the
president of Harvard in 1892. And, if you are interested in something
else—psychology, business, medicine, computers, design? Too bad.
Those subjects weren’t taught at Harvard in 1892. Is that nuts or
what?
Classrooms: If you wanted to learn something and had the
money, wouldn’t you hire someone to be your mentor, and have
them be there for you while you tried out learning the new thing?
Isn’t that what small children have, a parent ready to teach as needed.
Classrooms make no sense as a venue for learning unless, of course,
you want to save money and have 30 (or, worse, hundreds of) students
handled by one teacher. Once you have ratios like that, you have to
teach by talking and then hoping someone was listening, so then you
have to have tests. Schools cannot work as places of learning if they
employ classrooms. And, of course, they pretty much all do.
Grades: Any professor can tell you that students are pretty much
concerned with whether what you are telling them will be on the
test and what they might do for extra credit. In other words, they
want a good grade. If you tell them that 2 + 2 = 5 and it will be on
the test, they will tell you that 2 + 2 = 5 if it means getting a good
grade. Parents do not give grades to children and employers do not
give grades to employees. They judge their work and progress for sure,
but not by assigning numbers to a report card.
Certification: We all know why people attend college. They do so
primarily to say they are college graduates so they can get a job or go
on to a professional school. Most don’t care all that much about what
218 Teaching Minds
hoops they have to go through. They do what they are told. Similarly,
students try to get through high school so they can go on to college.
As long as students are not in school to get an education, you can be
pretty sure they won’t get one. Most of our graduates have learned to
jump through hoops, nothing more.
Confined children: Children like to run around. Is this news to
anyone? They have a difficult time sitting still and they learn by trying
things out and asking questions. Of course, in school sitting still is the
norm. So we have come up with this wonderful idea of ADHD, that
is, drug those who won’t sit still into submission. Is the system sick or
what?
Academics viewed as winners: Who are the smartest kids in
school? The ones who are good at math and science, of course. Why do
we think that? Who knows? We just do. Those who are good at these
subjects go on to be professors. So those are certainly the smartest
people we have in our society. Perhaps they are. But I can tell you from
personal experience that our society doesn’t respect professors all that
much, so something is wrong here.
Practical skills not valued: When I was young, there were
academic high schools and trade high schools. Trade high schools
were for dumb kids. Academic high schools were for smart kids. We
all thought this made sense. Except that are a lot of unemployed
English majors and a lot of employed airplane mechanics. Where
did we get the idea that education was about scholarship? This is not
what Ben Franklin thought when our system was being designed, but
he was outvoted.
The need to please teachers: People who succeed at school are
invariably people who are good at figuring out what the teacher
wants and giving it to her. In real life there is no teacher to please
and these “grade grubbers” often find themselves lost. When I did
graduate admissions, if a student presented an undergraduate record
with all A’s, I immediately rejected him. There was no way he was
equally good at or equally interested in everything (except pleasing
the teacher). As a professor, I had no patience for students who
What Can We Do About It? 219
thought that telling me what I just told them was the essence of
academic achievement.
Self-worth questioned: School is full of winners and losers. I
graduated number 322 in my high school class (out of 678). Notice
that I remember this. Do you think this was good for my self-esteem?
Even the guy who graduated number 2 felt like a loser. In school, most
everyone sees themselves as a loser. Why do we allow this to happen?
Politicians in charge: Politicians demand reform but they wouldn’t
know reform if it hit them over the head. What they mean is that
school should be like they remember rather than how it is now, and
they will work hard to get you to vote for them to give them money
to restore the system to the awful state it always was in. Politicians,
no matter what party, actually have no interest in education at all. An
educated electorate makes campaigning much harder.
Government use of education for repression: As long as there have
been governments, there have been governments that wanted people
to think that the government (and the country) is very good. We all
recognize this tendency in dictatorships that promote the marvels of
the dictator and rewrite history whenever it is convenient. When you
point out that our government does the same thing, you are roundly
booed. We all know that the Indians were savages that Abraham
Lincoln was a great president and that we are the freest country on
earth. School is about teaching “truth.”
Discovery not valued: The most important things we learn we
teach ourselves. This is why kids have trouble learning from their
parents’ experience. They need their own experiences to ponder and
to learn from. We need to try things out and see how they go. This kind
of learning is not valued in school because it might lead to, heaven
forbid, failure, and failure is a really bad word in school. Except failure
is how we learn, which is pretty much why school doesn’t work.
Boredom ignored: Boredom is a bad thing. We drug bored kids
with Ritalin so they will stop being bored. All of my best work has
come when I was most bored and let my mind wander. It is odd that
220 Teaching Minds
we keep trying to prevent this from happening with kids. Lots of TV,
that’s the ticket.
Major learning by-doing mechanism ignored: And last but not
least, scholars from Plato to Dewey have pointed that people learn
by doing. That is how we learn. Doing. Got it? Apparently not. Very
little doing in schools. Unless you count filling in circles with number
2 pencils as doing.
Online education can change all this. Build it right once and children
the world over will have the opportunity to learn how to think and to
learn how to work. Such a system would be capable of changing fast.
Any new industry or market or technology could produce a course in
what is needed to work in that field and instantly get the people it
needed.
Schools are an ancient artifact that can’t last much longer.
Notes
Chapter 1
1. In the United States it all stems from a meeting of the Committee of
Ten chaired by the president of Harvard in 1892.
2. John Adams, the second president of the United States, said that school
should teach us how to live and teach us how to make a living. No subsequent
U.S. president has ever understood this point, however.
Chapter 2
1. Paul Ramsden. Learning to Teach in Higher Education. New York:
Routledge, 1992..
2. Arthur W. Chickering and Zelda F. Gamson. “Seven Principles for Good
Practice in Undergraduate Education.” The American Association for Higher
Education Bulletin, March 1987.
3. John V. Adams, Student Evaluations: The Ratings Game. Inquiry, 1(2),
Fall 1997, 10–16.
Chapter 3
1. From a column by Robert Jamieson, Jr., Seattle PI.com, February 27,
2008.
2. I didn’t start writing about education until 1978. Before that it was
always artificial intelligence that concerned me.
3. I have done this in gory detail in Dynamic Memory and in Dynamic
Memory Revisited as well as in Explanation Patterns.
4. Tell Me a Story.
Chapter 5
1. For more on the origins of the school system, see The Origins of the
American High School as well as Making Minds Less Well Educated Than Our Own.
2. Socratic Arts, a company that builds learning-by-doing software for
schools, businesses, and government.
221
222 Notes
Chapter 7
1. Report Urges Changes in Teaching Math , New York Times, March 14,
2008.
2. Daniel Willingham, Why Don’t Students Like School: A Cognitive Scientist
Answers Questions About How the Mind Works and What It Means for the
Classroom. San Francisco: Jossey Bass, 2010
Chapter 8
1. Scripts, Plans, Goals and Understanding (1977) and Dynamic Memory
(1981).
Chapter 9
1. I wrote about this in some detail in The Future of Decision Making and
have been building this kind of thing for big corporations.
2. There are many experiences one could build. I talked about some that
we have built for high school and graduate school in Chapter 8. At the end of
this chapter, I talk about one for little kids.
3. Scripts, Plans, Goals, and Understanding.
4. For example, Dynamic Memory and Inside CBR.
5. Richard Neustadt and Ernest May, Thinking in Time: The Uses of History
For Decision Makers, Washington, D.C.: Free Press, 1988
6. Taken from Smart Parenting, Brad Smart and Kate Smart .Mursau: CDK
Press, 2007.
7. Roger Fisher, author of Getting to Yes.
8. Blaise Pascal usually gets the credit.
About the Author
Roger Schank is the CEO of Socratic Arts and Managing Director of
Engines for Education. He was Chief Education Officer of Carnegie
Mellon West, Distinguished Career Professor in the School of Computer
Science at Carnegie Mellon University, and Chief Learning Officer
of Trump University. He founded the renowned Institute for the
Learning Sciences at Northwestern University, where he is John P. Evans
Professor Emeritus in Computer Science, Education, and Psychology.
He has taught at Yale University, the University of Paris VII, and
Stanford University. He holds a Ph.D. in linguistics from the University
of Texas. He is a fellow of the AAAI and was founder of the Cognitive
Science Society and co-founder of the Journal of Cognitive Science.
He is the author of more than 25 books on learning, language, artificial
intelligence, education, memory, reading, e-learning, and storytelling.
Recently he has been consulting with businesses about how to
be more innovative, and how to manage their corporate knowledge so
that it is delivered just in time.
223

