Case 9:08-cv-80736-KAM Document 85-1 Entered on FLSD Docket 06/17/2011 Page 3 of 4

S3608

U.S. SENATE,
Washington, DC, June 6, 2011.
Hon. ERIC H. HOLDER, Jr.,
Attorney General; U.S. Department of Justice,
Washington, DC.

DEAR ATTORNEY GENERAL HOLDER: I am
writing about the Justice Department’s im-
plementation of the Crime Victims’ Rights
Act--an act that I co-sponsored in 2004.
These questions relate to an Office of Legal
Counsel (“OLC’’?) Opinion made public on
May 20, 2011 and more broadly to concerns I
have heard from crime victims’ advocates
that the Department has been thwarting ef-
fective implementation of the Act by failing
to extend the Act to the investigative phases
of criminal cases and by preventing effective
appellate enforcement of victims’ rights. I
am writing to ask you to answer these ques-
tions and explain the Department’s actions
in these areas.

GOVERNMENT PROTECTION OF VICTIMS’ RIGHTS
DURING INVESTIGATION OF A CRIME

When Congress enacted the CVRA, it in-
tended to protect crime victims throughout
the criminal justice process—from the inves-
tigative phases to the final conclusion of a
case. Congress could not have been clearer in
its direction that using ‘“‘best efforts’’ to en-
force the CVRA was an obligation of
“Colfficers and employees of the Department
of Justice and other departments and agen-
cies of the United States engaged in the de-
tection, investigation, or prosecution of crime

. .? 18 U.S.C. §8771(c)(1) (emphasis added).
Congress also permitted crime victims to as-
sert their rights either in the court in which
formal charges had already been filed “or, if
no prosecution is underway, in the district
court in the district in which the crime oc-
curred.” 18 U.S.C. §38771(d)(3) (emphasis
added).

Despite Congress’ clear intention to extend
rights to crime victims throughout the proc-
ess, the Justice Department is reading the
CVRA much more narrowly. In the recent
OLC opinion, for example, the Department
takes the position that ‘“‘the CVRA is best
read as providing that the rights identified
in section 377l(a) are guaranteed from the
time that criminal proceedings are initiated
(by complaint, information, or indictment)
and cease to be available if all charges are
dismissed either voluntarily or on the merits
(or if the Government declines to bring for-
mal charges after the filing of a complaint).”
The Availability of Crime Victims’ Rights
Under the Crime Victims’ Rights Act of 2004,
Memorandum from John E. Bies (Dec. 17,
2010, publicly released May 20, 2011) (herein-
after “‘OLC Opinion’’). Indeed, in that same
opinion, I am surprised to see the Depart-
ment citing a snippet from my floor remarks
during the passage of the CVRA for the prop-
osition that crime victims can confer with
prosecutors only after the formal filing of
charges. See id. at 9 (citing 150 Cong. Rec.
$4260, S4268 (Apr. 22, 2004) (statement of Sen.
Kyl).

I did want to express my surprise that your
prosecutors are so clearly quoting my re-
marks out of context. Here is the full pas-
sage of my remarks, which were part of a
colloquy with my co-sponsor on the CVRA,
Senator Feinstein:

Senator Feinstein: Section .. . (a)(5) pro-
vides a right to confer with the attorney for
the Government in the case. This right is in-
tended to be expansive. For example, the vic-
tim has the right to confer with the Govern-
ment concerning any critical stage or dis-
position of the case. The right, however, is not
limited to these examples. I ask the Senator if
he concurs in this intent.

Senator Kyl: Yes. The intent of this sec-
tion is just as the Senator says. This right to
confer does not give the crime victim any

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE

right to direct the prosecution. Prosecutors
should consider it part of their profession to
be available to consult with crime victims
about concerns the victims may have which
are pertinent to the case, case proceedings or
dispositions. Under this provision, victims are
able to confer with the Government's attorney
about proceedings after charging.

150 Cong. Rec. S4260, S4268 (Apr. 22, 2004)
(statements of Sens. Feinstein & Kyl) (em-
phases added). Read in context, it is obvious
that the main point of my remarks was that
a victim’s right to confer was ‘‘intended to
be expansive.”’ Senator Feinstein and I then
gave various examples of situations in which
victims could confer with prosecutors, with
the note that the right to confer was ‘‘not
limited to these examples.’ It is therefore
troubling to me that in this opinion the Jus-
tice Department is quoting only a limited
portion of my remarks and wrenching them
out of context to suggest that I think that
crime victims do not have any right to con-
fer (or to be treated with fairness) until after
charging.

In giving an example that the victims
would have such rights after charging, I was
not suggesting that they had no such right
earlier in the process. Elsewhere in my re-
marks I made clear that crime victims had
rights under the CVRA even before an indict-
ment is filed. For example, in the passage
quoted above, I made clear that crime vic-
tims had a right to consult about both ‘‘the
case’’ and ‘‘case proceedings’’—i.e., both
about how the case was being handled before
being filed in court and then later how the
case was being handled in court “pro-
ceedings.”’ As another example, Senator
Feinstein and I explained that we had draft-
ed the CVRA to extend a right to victims to
attend only ‘‘public” proceedings, because
otherwise the rights would extend to grand
jury proceedings. See, e.g., 150 Cong. Rec.
54260, S4268 (Apr. 22, 2004) (statements of
Sens. Feinstein & Kyl). Of course, no such
limitation would have been necessary under
the CVRA if CVRA rights attach (as the De-
partment seems to think) only after the fil-
ing of a grand jury indictment.

Courts have already rejected the Justice
Department’s position that the CVRA ap-
plies only after an indictment is filed. For
example, in In re Dean, 527 F.3d 391 (5th Cir.
2008), the Department took the position that
crime victims had no right to confer with
prosecutors until after the Department had
reached and signed a plea agreement with a
corporation (BP Products North America)
whose illegal actions had resulted in the
deaths of fifteen workers in an oil refinery
explosion. Of course, this position meant
that the victims could have no role in shap-
ing any plea deal that the Department
reached. In rejecting the Department’s posi-
tion, the Fifth Circuit held that “the govern-
ment should have fashioned a reasonable
way to inform the victims of the likelihood
of criminal charges and to ascertain the vic-
tims’ views on the possible details of a plea
bargain.”’ Id. at 394.

In spite of this binding decision from the
Fifth Circuit, crime victims’ advocates have
reported to me that the Justice Department
is still proceeding in the Fifth Circuit and
elsewhere on the assumption that it has no
obligations to treat victims fairly or to con-
fer with them until after charges are for-
mally filed. Given the Fifth Circuit’s Dean
decision, this position appears to place the
Department in violation of a binding court
ruling that extends rights to thousands of
crime victims in Louisiana, Mississippi, and
Texas. And more generally, the Depart-
ment’s position simply has no grounding in
the clear language of the CVRA.

My first question: What is the Justice De-
partment doing to extend to victims their

June 8, 2011

right to fair treatment and their right to
confer with prosecutors when the Justice De-
partment is negotiating pre-indictment plea
agreements and non-prosecution agreements
with defense attorneys, including negotia-
tions within the Fifth Circuit?
CRIME VICTIMS’ RIGHT TO APPELLATE
PROTECTION

Protection of crime victims’ rights in ap-
pellate courts is an important part of the
CVRA. As you know, when Congress passed
the CVRA, the federal courts of appeals had
recognized that crime victims could take or-
dinary appeals to protect their rights. See,
e.g., Doe v. United States, 666 F.2d 43, 46 (4th
Cir. 1981) (rape victim allowed to appeal dis-
trict court’s adverse ‘“‘rape shield statute”
ruling); United States v. Kones, 77 F.3d 66 (8rd
Cir. 1996) (victim allowed to appeal adverse
restitution decision). Congress sought to
leave these protections in place, while ex-
panding them to ensure that crime victims
could obtain quick vindication of their
rights in appellate courts by providing—in
§3771(d)(3)—that ‘“‘{i]f the district court de-
nies the relief sought, the [victim] may peti-
tion the court of appeals for a writ of man-
damus.”” 18 U.S.C. §8771(d)(3). Ordinarily,
whether mandamus relief should issue is dis-
cretionary. The plain language of the CVRA,
however, specifically and clearly overruled
such discretionary mandamus standards by
directing that ‘‘[t]he court of appeals shall
take up and decide such application forthwith
.... 18 U.S.C. §3771(d)(3) (emphasis added).
As I explained when the Senate considered
the CVRA:

{[W]hile mandamus is generally discre-

tionary, this provision [18 U.S.C. §3771(d)(3)]
means that courts must review these cases.
Appellate review of denials of victims’ rights
is just as important as the initial assertion
of a victim’s right. This provision ensures re-
view and encourages courts to broadly defend
the victims’ rights.
150 Conc. REc. $4270 (Apr. 22, 2004) (state-
ment of Sen. Kyl) (emphases added). Simi-
larly, the CVRA’s co-sponsor with me, Sen-
ator Feinstein, stated that the Act would
create “‘a new use of a very old procedure,
the writ of mandamus. This provision will
establish a procedure where a crime victim
can, in essence, immediately appeal a denial
of their rights by a trial court to the court
of appeals.”’ 150 Conc. REc. $4262 (statement
of Sen. Feinstein) (emphases added): see also
id. (statement of Sen. Kyl) (crime victims
must ‘“‘be able to have ... the appellate
courts take the appeal and order relief). In
short, the legislative history shows that
§3771(d)(3) was intended to allow crime vic-
tims to take accelerated appeals from dis-
trict court decisions denying their rights and
have their appeals reviewed under ordinary
standards of appellate review.

In spite of that unequivocal legislative his-
tory, the Justice Department has in past
cases asserted a contrary position. In In re
Antrobus, 519 F.3d 1123 (10th Cir. 2008), Ken
and Sue Antrobus sought to obtain appellate
review of a ruling by a trial court that they
could not deliver a victim impact statement
at the sentencing of the man who sold the
murder weapon used to kill their daughter.
The Tenth Circuit ruled against them on the
basis that the Antrobuses were not entitled
to regular appellate review, but only discre-
tionary mandamus review. See id. at 1124-25.
The Tenth Circuit did not consider the legis-
lative history in reaching this conclusion,
leading the Antrobuses to file petitions for
rehearing and rehearing en banc—petitions
that recounted this legislative history. In re-
sponse, the Justice Department asked the
Tenth Circuit to deny the victims’ petitions.
Remarkably, the Justice Department told
the Tenth Circuit that it could ignore the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012720
