The Russians Are Coming | 223

1960, at the Hall of Journalists and invited all the foreign correspon-
dents in Moscow. Before television cameras, the defectors denounced
the NSA’s activities. Martin told how the NSA breached interna-
tional laws by spying on Germany, Britain, and other NATO allies.
Mitchell, for his part, suggested that the NSA’s practice of break-
ing international laws could ignite a nuclear war. Indeed, he justi-
fied their joint defection to Russia in heroic whistle-blowing terms,
saying, “We would attempt to crawl to the moon if we thought it
would lessen the threat of an atomic war.” The NSA review of the
case, however, assessed that little damage had been done, because the
NSA quickly changed the codes they had compromised. It noted,
“The Communist spymasters would undoubtedly have preferred
Martin and Mitchell to remain in place as moles, since their infor-
mation was dated as of the moment they left NSA.”

The next NSA defector was Victor Norris Hamilton, a translator
and analyst at the NSA. He arrived in Moscow in 1962, and like
Mitchell and Martin he claimed the status of a whistle-blower. This
time, the KGB provided a newspaper platform. Writing in the Rus-

© sian newspaper Izvestia, Hamilton revealed the extent of U.S. spying ©
on its allies in the Middle East.

None of these three 1960s defectors revealed what, if any, NSA
secret documents they had compromised. Nor did any of them ever
return to the United States. Martin changed his name to Vladimir
Sokolodsky, married a Russian woman, and died in Mexico City on
January 17, 1987. Mitchell vanished from sight and was reported to
have died in St. Petersburg on November 12, 2001. Hamilton, after
telling Russian authorities stories about hearing voices in his head
because of an NSA device implanted in his brain, was consigned to
Special Psychiatric Hospital No. 5 outside Moscow.

There were also KGB spies in the NSA who were caught or died
before they could defect. One of them was Sergeant Jack Dunlap.
He was found dead of carbon monoxide poisoning in his garage on
July 23, 1963. Although there was no suicide note, his death was
ruled an apparent suicide. NSA classified documents were later dis-
covered in his house. After that, NSA investigators unraveled his
decade-long career as a KGB mole. Dunlap had been recruited by the
KGB in Turkey in 1952. The standard KGB tool kit for recruitment

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r.indd 223 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019711
