AUTHOR’S NOTE

The reason to write this book could not be more obvious. With the inauguration of Donald
Trump on January 20, 2017, the United States entered the eye of the most extraordinary
political storm since at least Watergate. As the day approached, I set out to tell this story in
as contemporaneous a fashion as possible, and to try to see life in the Trump White House
through the eyes of the people closest to it.

This was originally conceived as an account of the Trump administration’s first
hundred days, that most traditional marker of a presidency. But events barreled on without
natural pause for more than two hundred days, the curtain coming down on the first act of
Trump’s presidency only with the appointment of retired general John Kelly as the chief of
staff in late July and the exit of chief strategist Stephen K. Bannon three weeks later.

The events I’ve described in these pages are based on conversations that took place
over a period of eighteen months with the president, with most members of his senior staff
—some of whom talked to me dozens of times—and with many people who they in turn
spoke to. The first interview occurred well before I could have imagined a Trump White
House, much less a book about it, in late May 2016 at Trump’s home in Beverly Hills—
the then candidate polishing off a pint of Haagen-Dazs vanilla as he happily and idly
opined about a range of topics while his aides, Hope Hicks, Corey Lewandowski, and
Jared Kushner, went in and out of the room. Conversations with members of the
campaign’s team continued through the Republican Convention in Cleveland, when it was
still hardly possible to conceive of Trump’s election. They moved on to Trump Tower with
a voluble Steve Bannon—before the election, when he still seemed like an entertaining
oddity, and later, after the election, when he seemed like a miracle worker.

Shortly after January 20, I took up something like a semipermanent seat on a couch in
the West Wing. Since then I have conducted more than two hundred interviews.

While the Trump administration has made hostility to the press a virtual policy, it has
also been more open to the media than any White House in recent memory. In the
beginning, I sought a level of formal access to this White House, something of a fly-on-
the-wall status. The president himself encouraged this idea. But, given the many fiefdoms
in the Trump White House that came into open conflict from the first days of the
administration, there seemed no one person able to make this happen. Equally, there was

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019881
