I wrote this in late 2011, while I was finishing up the first draft of my awesome book
Confessions of a Pickup Artist Chaser. / was still processing a lot of stuff I'd learned
about pickup artist tactics and pickup artist attitudes, and that's reflected in this piece.
But there's a lot more to it, from working out some stuff about polyamory to my feelings
about marriage. A lot of these thoughts are developed further in Confessions.

KK ok

Chemistry
It's a long story and a short one, but I guess all of them are.

I'm 27. It's about that age: A lot of my compatriots are getting married lately -- most
monogamously, some to a primary polyamorous partner. I myself have a stack of
relationships in my past. Some were monogamous, some polyamorous. Some have been
on-and-off, some short-term, some long-term (5 or 6 years was the longest). Lately I've
been processing some tough questions about polyamory, but I'd like to stick with it.

And I've been thinking a lot about what I want in a primary polyamorous partner. The
kind of guy I could marry. I wonder if I'll ever get to that point. I wonder if I'd know him
if I saw him.

te OK ok

I met Mr. Ambition at one of the aforementioned weddings. Several people
recommended that I talk to him, and we liked each other right away. Mutual friends used
words like zealot to describe him; let's just say he's got an intense history of dedicated
activism. Charisma, integrity, and pure energy pour off him. His words are almost always
articulate and challenging. He can socially dominate a room without thinking. He works a
challenging job ten hours per day; exercises two hours; socializes several hours; sleeps
and eats when he can. He gives hugs easily, laughs easily, hands out compliments like
candy.

Mr. Ambition is most definitely not a neutral personality. Of course, neither am I.

At the time, I was just coming out of the worst stage of my research on pickup artists -- a
subculture of men who trade tips on how to seduce women. Also, I'd just had one of those
breakups where I was too busy feeling stupid to properly understand how hurt I was.
(Don't you hate those?) You can read all about those Dramatic Events in my upcoming
book Confessions of a Pickup Artist Chaser. In the meantime, suffice to say that I felt...
flattened.

Arguably, I should have had a sign taped to my forehead that read: Emotionally
Unavailable.

I went to dinner with Mr. Ambition later that week. At the end of the meal, he sat back
and looked at me. You're so authentic, he said.

I haven't felt very authentic lately, I said frankly, but his words felt good. Like a balm.
Like I was healing.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018619
