direction by eileen and ada , and then brad. His breakdown was not a surprise after months and moths of
warnings. Though disabled, he ran your office this year. with john and joe. He ran amok, and as i told
you he rarely failed to remind me in our conversations that you told him that he works for you and not for
me and that brad needs to pays him .

. Asking me who to hire , estate attny tax people etc. :
I have taken heat for years over the fact that 1 gave you no more than carlyns name, . no follow up
questions no interactions , not even one single question asked of me re her work. (that was Eileen _) but
somehow carlyns fuck up was my doing. . _ when i told you that i thought Eileen wasn't up to the task, you
bellowed. that i was talking out of both sides of my mouth. . You told me this year , that by trying to protect
you from crazy joslin, I had in essence fired him and it was my responsibility to do his work. it then turns out
that he didn't consider himself fired at all he just received less money. and continued to make a really
dangerous mess.. Joshn castrucci, in your eyes, was also my doing , though email after email said , I take no
responsibility for him,and 1YOU SHOULD NOT HIRE HIM |!!! , your response was that was my opinion
was only because i didn't trust him. then to add insult to injury last jan you told me he was gone. however he
too is still there, and a waste of money and space.

My time is complicated by Donald's potentially eviscerating any reason for anyone to use the foreign
funds repatriation plan that 1 had put together. . however as you are aware I have some decisions to make re
my time allocation in the next year or two. so at least for a few weeks I am unable to commit much time and
make any future plans to guide you in the redoing of your procrastination produced mess.

That being said, the tasks at hand are the following.

You have a bomb of colored string that your retarded children have formed , It has to be very carefully
unwound , even the substitution of Barry for your next trustee, needs a careful focus on procedure.s It would
be much preferable if Wechsler was not his replacement. do you have any person you trust ??!. Iam
concermed re brad taking barrys place re XXXX. In the beginning Barry will need to find and learn
ACCURATE .. org charts. books , balance sheets . trust valuations. are alla part. Barry will need 2 months
to just get his arm around what is there , this is before any needed modifications.,

a way overdue re- fresh of your estate plan. . clats , trust. partnerships. grats. Ilcs. bank accounts , filing
requirements. etc. the long awaited review of the brh tra and shareholders agreement to see how they fit into
new plan. . XXXXX planning. art partnership engagement .. , airplane re-do. , buying another. .? boat
sale , Miami sale. . TRADING ACCOUNTS. . three years over due. . an accounting system. fire john
.. Joslin stays for a year. or so. so does tom and . except for heather everyone should be replaced with
new. . Sell Artspace and shut down regan arts. . rationalize. cash flow reporting. cash mgmt. stock
sales. sec irs. gaming. foreign reporting. the 8865 mess will take months to review now. . you
CANNOT file unreviewed audited documents. .CANNOT!!! _ this will be very detailed work. . a self
inflicted wound - all avoidable if professionals had been in place to limit . or contain it. . . you will need
3 new hires .as there is no one in your office that is truly an A player. I have great hope in Barry as you
know. He will need to be trained. note
; One year is my guesstimate After 4 years of telling you , that you could do better than Halperin, : im glad
that you now are willing to follow barrys advice . I take no offense , in fact I take comfort in the fact that after
only one conversation with Barry you are now convinced to make that change . will take a year or more.

I expect as a friend you will understand that

I will no longer , not even for one day , work on your affairs . without the compensation that is long
overdue. . your unilateral idea of after care , not imposed on any other professional , except me, not paul
weiss ,( caesars alone , a direct screw up on their part ) tom, akin, , no one. needs toend.. you and I had
previously agreed no more of that , and this after you decided not to pay me per our agreement. to be fair I can
not say im surprised as you have email after email , stating that , if you save a great deal of money, you
wont want to pay , so limit itto 40m per year. - water under the bridge

If I can find the time to work , on your project , which is not by any means certain as Ihave said, I hope
you understand that it now will have to be under my standard terms and conditions. and well documented so as
to avoid any more of the he said she said. I never want to have any more uncomfortable money moments with

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023320
