Octahedral Air people intellectualize objectively in confident and insensitive
aloofness. Those symbolized by cubic Earth are realistic and practical, a what-you-
see-is-what-there-is belief along with rigid, materialistic ways. /cosahedral Water
types experience emotions strongly and are sensitive, intuitive, nurturing and can be
overly sensitive and dependent.

What intuitions and observations relevant to self, subjective and objective,
emanate from the stylistic properties of feelings as derived from a time series of
observations of their associated actions suggested by their statistical measures, Hr,
Hu, AC and srs? The yield is rich and unexpected. We find an enjoining of values of
these measures, characteristic and invariant for each person, with the brain and
behavioral actions of entheogenic agents and Zen meditation in contrast with
worldlier focused attitude adjusting experiences and drugs. The range of their
potential values helps rationalize a person’s inclinations along the continuum of
attachment and detachment. This quantifiable dimension augers positively and
negatively with respect to the requirements for mystical experience as poetically
described by the ambivalent warrior prince, Ardjuna, in conversations with Lord
Krishna in the Bhagavad-Gita, the most famous and influential component of the
Mahabharata of Hindu scripture, A similar theme relevant to the occupancy of a
propitious range of values for the measures, H7, Hy, AC and srs, is found in what is
often called the Second Nobe/ Truth as explained by the Buddha, Siddhartha
Gautama, in lectures recorded in a deer park near Benares. We begin with the
results of some drug experiments conducted by behavioral neurophysiologists and
end with suggestions about the intuitive relevance of the conceptual content of
these measures to the universals of mystical experience and perhaps to elements
of spiritual transformation.

As described previously, the brain and behavioral process of habituation is
characterized by a decrease in the strength of an observable response to the
repetition of an evocative stimulus. Imagine the decrease in our startle responding
when a once unexpected loud noise continues to occur. Sir Charles Sherrington,
the early Twentieth Century British pioneer in neurophysiology showed that animals

and humans gradually stopped the withdrawal of their limbs with stimulation of its

114

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013614
