Freedom House

Sharing worst practices

During the 1990s there was much discussion in the
major democracies regarding the export of “best prac-
tices,” meaning the institutions, policies, and ways

f doing things that had strengthened democratic
governance in some of the more successful post-au-
thoritarian societies, especially in Central Europe.

ore recently, modern authoritarian regimes have
turned this concept on its head by sharing their own
experiences with laws and tactics that have the effect
f retarding democratic development.

e}

o}

Laws restricting the autonomy and funding of NGOs
have been widely copied around the world. Many of
the affected countries tolerated civil society activism
in the period after the Cold War, only to move ina
more repressive direction after the most prominent
color revolutions alerted incumbent leaders to poten-
tial threat posed by civic activism. Once Russia had
demonstrated a willingness to adopt legislation and
then enforce it, other countries followed suit, first in
Eurasia but subsequently in Africa, Asia, the Middle
East, and Latin America.

Governments that adopt such laws seldom if ever
shut down the civil society sector entirely. Instead,
they deal with NGOs selectively, tolerating those that
present no threat to the status quo, monitoring oth-
ers, and repressing those that the leadership regards
as a potential focus of opposition activity. Even some
democracies, such as India, Indonesia, and Kenya,
have enacted laws to strengthen state control over
NGOs. But the most serious restrictions have been
imposed by authoritarian regimes.

According to a 2013 report, 12 countries had prohib-
ited foreign funding for NGOs outright while another
49 placed restrictions on foreign donations. For
authoritarian leaders, the imposition of foreign fund-
ing restrictions is a convenient tactic in that it makes
it difficult for the organization to function effectively
but falls short of an outright ban, which could attract
sharper criticism. Furthermore, governments can jus-
tify their action on grounds of protecting sovereignty
against foreign interference—a potent argument in
an era when nationalist ideas have garnered greater
public support. Thus in rejecting an appeal to govern-
ment policies that restrict NGO work, the Venezuelan
Supreme Court spoke of foreign assistance as “a
typical manifestation of the interventionist policies of
a foreign power to influence the internal affairs of the
Venezuelan state.!”

China piles on

In early 2016, joining its authoritarian colleagues,
China acopted its first formal law meant to regulate
the country’s rapidly expanding NGO sector. Previous-
ly, foreign NGOs registered as commercial enterprises
and conducted their advocacy work “off the books.”
Under the new law, foreign NGOs are subject to a se-
ries of additional bureaucratic hurdles, some of which
could seriously impinge on their work.

For example, foreign NGOs are now required to join in
partnership with a Chinese organization. In practice,
this could make it difficult for NGOs that work on sen-
sitive issues like the rule of law to function, as Chinese
organizations would be hesitant to join a foreign entity
in pursuing such a politically explosive mission.

Moreover, foreign NGOs will be compelled to register
with the police rather than the Ministry of Civil Affairs,
as had been the case.'® The law gives the police
sweeping powers to detain staff, restrict activities or
events, or regulate an NGO's ability to open an office.'®
An NGOs registration can be revoked under a vague
clause that forbids spreading rumors, engaging in
defamation, or publishing “other harmful information
that endangers state security or damages the national
interest.”°

The new law was passed in the context of intensified
repression, an economic slowdown, and a drive by
the Xi Jinping leadership to suppress discussion of
“Western ideas” in the media and at universities. Even
as the country’s leadership boasted of China's role as
a world power, the country’s education minister, Yuan
Guiren, felt compelled in 2015 to warn against the use
of “textbooks promoting Western values” in Chinese
classrooms.

Indeed, the authorities had carried out a series of
arrests, focusing on precisely the sort of indepen-
dent-minded activists with whom reform-oriented
international NGOs would expect to collaborate: hu-
man rights lawyers, advocates for minority rights and
religious freedom, and women's rights campaigners.”
Around the time of the law's adoption, the govern-
ment took the unusual step of showcasing a televised
confession by a Swedish citizen who had worked with
legal reform groups in China. Xinhua claimed that

the activist, Peter Dahlin, had served a human rights
organization that “hired and trained others to gather,
fabricate, and distort information about China.22

The adoption of formal restrictions on NGOs is one

www.freedomhouse.org

27

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019261
