10

a hostile Middle East environment shaped by Israel’s overwhelming
victory over the Arabs in the 1967 war, its seizure of extensive Arab
territories including Syria’s Golan Heights and its subsequent close
alliance with the United States, which put in place a sort of dual US-
Israeli regional hegemony from which Syria and its allies have sought
to free themselves ever since. The 1973 war waged by Egypt and
Syria to recover lost territories and force Israel to negotiate a global
peace had some initial success but failed to realise its objectives.
Instead, Egypt made a separate peace with Israel in 1979 and was
removed from the Arab line up. The rest of the region was then
exposed to the full force of Israeli power.

Looking to its defences, Syria established a partnership in 1979 with
the newborn Islamic Republic of Iran. And once Israel invaded
Lebanon in 1982 in a bid to expel Syrian influence, destroy the PLO
and bring Lebanon into its orbit, Syria found local allies among the
Shia resistance movements of South Lebanon -- of which Hizbullah
became the most prominent. Waging a guerrilla war, and benefiting
from logistical support and weapons from Iran and Syria, Hizbullah
managed to force Israel out of South Lebanon in 2000, after an 18-
year occupation. From this was born the Tehran-Damascus-Hizbullah
axis, which over the years grew into the principal regional challenger
of the United States and Israel.

Both the United States and Israel have done their utmost to disrupt
this axis and prevent it acquiring any effective deterrent capability:
Iran has faced constant demonisation, sanctions and threat of military
attack because of its nuclear programme, while Israel has made
repeated attempts to destroy Hizbullah, including its war on Lebanon
in 2006. Syria, in turn, has faced intimidation, isolation, US sanctions
and an Israeli attack in 2007 on its alleged nuclear facility.

Bashar has had to wrestle with his own crises. He survived George
W. Bush’s “global war on terror” after 9/11, then faced the greater

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024967
