their part, Epstein’s lawyers argued that the lowest designation should be applied because “there
are no real victims here.” Jd. Ex. C.

In January 2011, the judge presiding over the sex-offender registration proceedings,
Justice Ruth Pickholz, rejected ADA Gaffney’s arguments and designated Epstein as a level
three sex offender. Epstein, 89 A.D.3d at 570, 933 N.Y.S.2d at 240. Ata hearing preceding her
ruling, Justice Pickholz told the Assistant District Attorney that she had “never seen the
prosecutor’s office do anything like this” and further stated that she had “done many [cases]
much less troubling than this one where [prosecutors] would never make a downward argument
like this.” Jd. Ex. B. When ADA Gaffney was questioned about whether she knew Epstein had
sexually abused other minors, Gaffney admitted that she had never spoken to the federal
investigators in Florida who had reached the conclusion that Epstein was a serial abuser of
underage girls. Id. Ex. C.

B. The Appeal

Epstein subsequently commenced this Appeal, seeking to overturn the trial court’s ruling
that he is a level three sex offender. The appellate briefs submitted by Epstein and the
Manhattan District Attorney were filed under seal, pursuant to New York Civil Rights Law
section 50-b. /d. 47. That statute protects the anonymity “of any victim of a sex offense” by
requiring any “court file . .. which tends to identify such a victim” to be filed under seal. N.Y.
Civ. Rights Law § 50-b(1). The statute further provides, however, that court documents filed
under seal shall be disclosed if a movant “demonstrates to the satisfaction of the court that good
cause exists for disclosure to that person.” /d. § 50-b(2)(b).

In a decision filed on the public docket (the “Decision’’), this Court affirmed Epstein’s
level three offender status because the lower “court properly relied on highly reliable proof of
criminal conduct for which defendant was neither indicted nor convicted.” Epstein, 89 A.D.3d at

4
4811-3721-9459v 3 3930033-000039

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016491
