done early in her modeling career—a leak that everybody other than Melania assumed
could be traced back to Trump himself.

Inconsolable, she confronted her husband. Is this the future? She told him she wouldn’t
be able to take it.

Trump responded in his fashion—We’ll sue/—and set her up with lawyers who
successfully did just that. But he was unaccustomedly contrite, too. Just a little longer, he
told her. It would all be over in November. He offered his wife a solemn guarantee: there
was simply no way he would win. And even for a chronically—he would say helplessly—
unfaithful husband, this was one promise to his wife that he seemed sure to keep.

OOK Ok

The Trump campaign had, perhaps less than inadvertently, replicated the scheme from Mel
Brooks’s The Producers. In that classic, Brooks’s larcenous and dopey heroes, Max
Bialystock and Leo Bloom, set out to sell more than 100 percent of the ownership stakes
in the Broadway show they are producing. Since they will be found out only if the show is
a hit, everything about the show is premised on its being a flop. Accordingly, they create a
show so outlandish that it actually succeeds, thus dooming our heroes.

Winning presidential candidates—driven by hubris or narcissism or a preternatural
sense of destiny—have, more than likely, spent a substantial part of their careers, if not
their lives from adolescence, preparing for the role. They rise up the ladder of elected
offices. They perfect a public face. They manically network, since success in politics is
largely about who your allies are. They cram. (Even in the case of an uninterested George
W. Bush, he relied on his father’s cronies to cram for him.) And they clean up after
themselves—or, at least, take great care to cover up. They prepare themselves to win and
to govern.

The Trump calculation, quite a conscious one, was different. The candidate and his top
lieutenants believed they could get all the benefits of almost becoming president without
having to change their behavior or their fundamental worldview one whit: we don’t have
to be anything but who and what we are, because of course we won’t win.

Many candidates for president have made a virtue of being Washington outsiders; in
practice, this strategy merely favors governors over senators. Every serious candidate, no
matter how much he or she disses Washington, relies on Beltway insiders for counsel and
support. But with Trump, hardly a person in his innermost circle had ever worked in
politics at the national level—his closest advisers had not worked in politics at all.
Throughout his life, Trump had few close friends of any kind, but when he began his
campaign for president he had almost no friends in politics. The only two actual
politicians with whom Trump was close were Rudy Giuliani and Chris Christie, and both
men were in their own way peculiar and isolated. And to say that he knew nothing—
nothing at all—about the basic intellectual foundations of the job was a comic

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019895
