+> BONUS MATERIAL

This book is not just what you hold in your hands. There was much more I wanted to include but

couldn’t due to space constraints. Use passwords hidden in this book to access some of the best I have to
offer. Here are just a few examples that took me years to assemble:

How to Get $250,000 of Advertising for $10,000
(includes real scripts)

How to Learn Any Language in 3 Months

Muse Math: Predicting the Revenue of Any Product
(includes case studies)

Licensing: From Tae Bo to Teddy Ruxpin

Real Licensing Agreement with Real Dollars
(this alone is worth $5,000)

Online Round-the-World (RTW) Trip Planner

For this and much more reader-only content, visit our companion site and free how-to message boards
at www.fourhourblog.com. How would you like a free trip around the world? Join us and see how simple
it is.

» ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

Fin. I must thank the students whose feedback and questions birthed this book, and Ed Zschau,

tibermentor and entrepreneurial superhero, for giving me the chance to speak with them. Ed, in a world
where deferred dreams are the norm, you have been a shining light for those who dare to do it their way.
I bow down to your skills (and Karen Cindrich, the best right-hand woman ever) and look forward to
cleaning your erasers whenever the call comes—I’Il make a 220-pound bodybuilder of you yet!

Jack Canfield, you are an inspiration and have shown me that it is possible to make it huge and still be
a wonderful, kind human being. This book was just an idea until you breathed life into it. I cannot thank
you enough for your wisdom, support, and incredible friendship.

To Stephen Hanselman, prince among men and the best agent in the world, I thank you for “getting”
the book at first glance and taking me from writer to author. I cannot imagine a better partner or cooler
cat, and I look forward to many more adventures together. From negotiation to nonstop jazz, you amaze
me. LevelFiveMedia is the new breed of agenting, where first-time authors are developed into bestselling

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014033
