Michaelhouse Pvt Bag X1 Balgowan KwaZulu-Natal 3275 South Africa

Telephone Facsimi/ www.michaelhouse.org
>>> Miles Alexander 2016-05-18 05:56 PM >>>

Hi

Cathy and | have discussed your questions. At this stage we do not feel it is beneficial and may negatively impact our
privacy to answer the questions.

Please respect our request not to assist.

Regards

Sent from my iPhone

On 18 May 2016, at 16:01, Brad Edwards SG wrote:

Thank you for your response. My initial questions are fairly general | believe.

Was Former Pres Clinton ever a guest on the island?

Was George Mitchell a guest?

Would any of the guests get massages from the girls brought by Mr. Epstein or Ms. Maxwell?

Do you remember [iii

What was her interaction with Ms. Maxwell?

How many massages would Mr. Epstein get per day? | understand that the massages happened in a location where,
based on the article | read, Ghislaine instructed you to never go while in use. But | am curious knowing - were the
massages done by the various young girls brought to the island? Did they appear to be massage therapists? | think |
know that answer based again on the previous article | read.

Were you aware of Ghislaine flying a helicopter? Flying girls to the island? Flying guests to the island?

What did you understand Ghislaine's role to be? How did she describe herself or act while there? If she was the
“queen bee girlfriend, then what was her explanation of the presence of the other younger girls? And what
interaction did Ghislaine have with those girls? It is our understanding that one of her primarily jobs was to find
the girls to bring to Mr. Epstein but we do not yet have a firm understand where she found them or what interaction
she personally had with each of them while on the island. | was hoping you could provide some clarity based on
things you heard or observations you made.

Again, thank you for any clarification you can provide. | am interested in the facts, including any inaccuracies that
have been reported in the past which may have given us a misunderstanding of anything.

Sincerely,
Brad

Sent from my iPhone

On May 18, 2016, at 4:05 AM, Miles Alexander r wrote:

Greetings

Thank you for your letter and sentiments contained there in.

Cathy and | have read a number of articles that have appeared in the press over the past few years. In the cases
where statements are credited tol | can honestly say that we cannot agree to the statements

made and therefore do not see what further info you need. For example, the notion that we served or witnessed the
stated alleged acts or parties are untrue.

If you wish to take this further, please supply a list of questions you think are pertinent and we will then decide if any
need answering .

Regards

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022995
