Kellen, had called many of the girls. Epstein’s flight logs showed that the calls
were made when Epstein was in Palm Beach.

They obtained dozens of message pads from his home that read like a who’s who
of famous people, including magician David Copperfield and Donald Trump, an

indication of Epstein’s vast circle of influential friends. There were also messages
from girls, and their phone numbers matched those of many of the girls Recarey

had interviewed, Recarey said. They read: “Courtney called, she can come at 4,
or “Tanya can’t come at 7 p.m. tomorrow because she has soccer practice.”

They also found naked photographs of underage girls in Epstein’s closet, Recarey
said.

There were also witnesses: Two of Epstein’s butlers gave Recarey sworn
interviews, confirming that young girls had been coming and going at the house.
One of the butlers, Alfredo Rodriguez, told Recarey that when he was tasked with
cleaning up the master bath after Epstein’s sessions with the girls, he often
discovered sex toys. Once, he accidentally stumbled on a high school girl, whom
he identified, sleeping naked in Epstein’s spa, he testified in a 2009 court
deposition.

Rodriguez said he was given the job of paying the girls, telling Recarey that he
was “a human ATM machine” because he was ordered by Epstein to keep $2,000
on him at all times. He was also assigned to buy the girls gifts. Rodriguez gave
Recarey copies of pages from a book that Epstein and his staff kept with the
names and phone numbers for many of the Palm Beach County girls, Recarey
said.

Rodriguez, however, held onto the bulk of Epstein’s “little black book,” and in
November 2009 tried to sell it for $50,000 to an undercover FBI agent posing as
a victim’s lawyer. He was arrested and sentenced in 2012 to federal prison, and
died three years later following an illness. The book — listing personal phone
numbers for a cavalcade of Epstein’s powerful friends and celebrities — eventually
became public as part of a civil lawsuit. It listed more than 100 female names
and phone numbers under the headings “massage’’ in every city where Epstein
had homes.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016442
