By the afternoon, the national security team was experiencing a sense of rising panic:
the president, in their view, didn’t seem to be quite registering the situation. Bannon
wasn’t helping. His hyperrationalist approach obviously appealed to the not-always-
rational president. A chemical attack didn’t change the circumstances on the ground,
Bannon argued; besides, there had been far worse attacks with far more casualties than
this one. If you were looking for broken children, you could find them anywhere. Why
these broken children?

The president was not a debater—well, not in any Socratic sense. Nor was he in any
conventional sense a decision maker. And certainly he was not a student of foreign policy
views and options. But this was nevertheless turning into a genuine philosophical face-off.

“Do nothing” had long been viewed as an unacceptable position of helplessness by
American foreign policy experts. The instinct to do something was driven by the desire to
prove you were not limited to nothing. You couldn’t do nothing and show strength. But
Bannon’s approach was very much “A pox on all your houses,” it was not our mess, and
judging by all recent evidence, no good would come of trying to help clean it up. That
effort would cost military lives with no military reward. Bannon, believing in the need for
a radical shift in foreign policy, was proposing a new doctrine: Fuck ’em. This iron-fisted
isolationism appealed to the president’s transactional self: What was in it for us (or for
him)?

Hence the urgency to get Bannon off the National Security Council. The curious thing
is that in the beginning he was thought to be much more reasonable than Michael Flynn,
with his fixation on Iran as the source of all evil. Bannon was supposed to babysit Flynn.
But Bannon, quite to Kushner’s shock, had not just an isolationist worldview but an
apocalyptic one. Much of the world would burn and there was nothing you could do about
it.

The announcement of Bannon’s removal was made the day after the attack. That in
itself was a rather remarkable accomplishment on the part of the moderates. In little more
than two months, Trump’s radical, if not screwball, national security leadership had been
replaced by so-called reasonable people.

The job was now to bring the president into this circle of reason.

OOK Ok

As the day wore on, both Ivanka Trump and Dina Powell were united in their
determination to persuade the president to react ... normally. At the very minimum, an
absolute condemnation of the use of chemical weapons, a set of sanctions, and, ideally, a
military response—although not a big one. None of this was in any way exceptional.
Which was sort of the point: it was critical not to respond in a radical, destabilizing way—
including a radical nonresponse.

Kushner was by now complaining to his wife that her father just didn’t get it. It had

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020027
