something, or give a little, it makes a tiny bit of difference. Maybe you just have to stay
open. Keep trying. These things build up.”

You don't understand,” I snapped. You don't know him! Maybe he really cares, but
even if he does, it doesn't matter! Things always end up the same. If I mention emotions,
or if I act warm to him, he'll ignore me for a while... and then he'll be cold to me again.
I'm telling you, I've been here before, with Richard. It's a trap.”

Mr. Ambition didn't waver. If you're strong enough, he said simply, then you can walk
into a trap.”

His words made my heart crack, my breath catch. Made me feel like I've forgotten
everything I knew about love.

When I was younger, I thought of my emotional strength like water: an embrace that
could make someone I loved feel lighter. Water is a slow, eroding force that pulls beauty
from the unexpected. Water makes wood into twisted driftwood sculptures; sharp glass
into opaque dim jewels; rocks into soft sand. Water will eventually reveal the heart of
everything it touches. If you let it.

I hadn't thought of myself that way in a long time. I felt like Mr. Ambition was calling
me out, reminding me of who I wanted to be. Maybe I protect myself better, these days.
But vulnerability is not always a bad thing.

I definitely could fall in love with this man, I realized.
You're really amazing, I said, and threw myself on his chest.
He put his arms around me. So are you, he said.

TK OK ok

As a storyteller, I often look back on my relationships and pick out foreshadowing: the
omens. And by now, I recognize the omens even as they're happening... and sometimes I
change my behavior, but usually I don't. Perhaps this state is what they call maturity.

One night while we were out, Mr. Ambition sighed in an offhand way. He seemed tired,
out of sorts. I just want someone to take me on an emotional journey,” he remarked to
me. Then he added, ... No offense.”

I mentioned this to a friend, later: Mr. Ambition says he wants me to take him on an
emotional journey,” I said.

An 'emotional journey’? That shit gets old, though, said my friend. I laughed, and
agreed with him.

Another night, Mr. Ambition mentioned something about enjoying drama. I was with my
best girlfriend at the time; she and I looked at each other. Careful what you wish for, I
said.

My friend said, Yeah, I'm pretty sure Clarisse knows how to create arbitrary amounts of
drama at any time.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018625
