Donald Trump’s marriage was perplexing to almost everybody around him—or it was,
anyway, for those without private jets and many homes. He and Melania spent relatively
little time together. They could go days at a time without contact, even when they were
both in Trump Tower. Often she did not know where he was, or take much notice of that
fact. Her husband moved between residences as he would move between rooms. Along
with knowing little about his whereabouts, she knew little about his business, and took at
best modest interest in it. An absentee father for his first four children, Trump was even
more absent for his fifth, Barron, his son with Melania. Now on his third marriage, he told
friends he thought he had finally perfected the art: live and let live—‘Do your own thing.”

He was a notorious womanizer, and during the campaign became possibly the world’s
most famous masher. While nobody would ever say Trump was sensitive when it came to
women, he had many views about how to get along with them, including a theory he
discussed with friends about how the more years between an older man and a younger
woman, the less the younger woman took an older man’s cheating personally.

Still, the notion that this was a marriage in name only was far from true. He spoke of
Melania frequently when she wasn’t there. He admired her looks—often, awkwardly for
her, in the presence of others. She was, he told people proudly and without irony, a
“trophy wife.” And while he may not have quite shared his life with her, he gladly shared
the spoils of it. “A happy wife is a happy life,” he said, echoing a popular rich-man truism.

He also sought Melania’s approval. (He sought the approval of all the women around
him, who were wise to give it.) In 2014, when he first seriously began to consider running
for president, Melania was one of the few who thought it was possible he could win. It
was a punch line for his daughter, Ivanka, who had carefully distanced herself from the
campaign. With a never-too-hidden distaste for her stepmother, Ivanka would say to
friends: All you have to know about Melania is that she thinks if he runs he’ll certainly
win.

But the prospect of her husband’s actually becoming president was, for Melania, a
horrifying one. She believed it would destroy her carefully sheltered life—one sheltered,
not inconsiderably, from the extended Trump family—which was almost entirely focused
on her young son.

Don’t put the cart before the horse, her amused husband said, even as he spent every
day on the campaign trail, dominating the news. But her terror and torment mounted.

There was a whisper campaign about her, cruel and comical in its insinuations, going
on in Manhattan, which friends told her about. Her modeling career was under close
scrutiny. In Slovenia, where she grew up, a celebrity magazine, Suzy, put the rumors about
her into print after Trump got the nomination. Then, with a sickening taste of what might
be ahead, the Daily Mail blew the story across the world.

The New York Post got its hands on outtakes from a nude photo shoot that Melania had

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019894
