Scott Link
June 19, 2019
Page 3

fF confided to him that she had never even had a boyfriend. He told her
everything would fall into place, “just keep doing what you are doing, work hard and stay
focused.” She told Mr. Epstein that she preferred to abstain from sex until she was married.

The first time HE asked her for a massage was to help with an ache in his
shoulder. I thought it was an innocent request. He said his masseuse had failed to
get a kink out of his shoulder. He gave her a large purple massager for her to use to take the knot
out of his back. Mr. Epstein told her she was an excellent masseuse and she was pleased to be
able to ease his pain.

When the massage ended, Mr. Epstein pulled two hundred dollars from his wallet and
handed it to her. He said, “I was going to give it to the masseuse anyway, so you take it and pay
for your car service or something.”

Mr. Epstein began calling her every day, no matter where she was in the world. He told
her he loved her. He became a vital part of a as her parents remained
distant. He invited her to stay at one of his apartments close to him on the Upper East Side. Her
arduous work schedule, starting with 6:00 a.m. call times and shows running late into the night
were exhausting. Epstein’s daily check-up calls and pep talks gave her strength to survive her
grinding schedule.

When in Paris, Mr. Epstein allowed her to stay at his home with her sister and arranged
for a night out at a concert with Naomi Campbell. It appeared to a ih: Mr. Epstein’s
thoughts were focused on her career, future and good fortune.

The first time the purple massage tool found its way between her legs, a 01d
him to stop, but Mr. Epstein pushed the head of the massager firmly against her and forced her
legs apart. She felt ashamed and embarrassed. The massages became a ritual and were always
accompanied with sexual abuse and a two-hundred dollar payment at the end.

Mr. Epstein approached her as if he was her mentor and teacher, teaching her about
sexuality, opening her eyes. She experienced immense orgasms, and then shame and fear. She
felt claustrophobia as she stared up into Mr. Epstein’s church-like ceiling of the massage parlor
while he fondled her. She felt she couldn’t escape her position, and that this was the way it had
to be because this powerful man orchestrated it. At the end of each massage he would make
himself ejaculate by demanding she pay vigorous attention to his nipples with her fingers and he
would tell her what a good girl she was, that he loved her and would call her later, which made
everything seem better. Then he would open his wallet filled with hundred dollar bills and give
her a couple, which she accepted as pocket money, never thinking twice about it.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010562
