Cannabis Investment Report | December 2017

through minority investment, by acquisition or otherwise. Examples of the emergence of such strategic
investors include Constellation Brands, Inc.’s (NYSE: STZ) approximately $190 million investment
in Canopy Growth Corporation (TSX: WEED) and the more than $400 million spent by The Scotts
Miracle-Gro Company (NYSE: SMG) to acquire soil, fertilizer, hydroponic equipment and lighting
companies that are supplying the cannabis industry. These types of transactions help support the valu-
ation levels in the industry and, to an extent, validate investors’ enthusiasm for the industry.

The stock price performance and valuations of cannabis-related companies continue to be robust,
irrespective of the aforementioned funding gap. In general, we believe that valuations in both the
public and private markets are being driven more by investors’ expectations for the future growth of
the cannabis industry than by individual company fundamentals. Similarly, especially in the over-the-
counter stock market in the United States—where most of the public cannabis-related companies are
traded—stock price fluctuations and valuations tend to be heavily influenced by the illiquidity in most
stocks and the trading strategies of those involved. Overall, we believe that the capital markets for the
cannabis industry will become more efficient and rational over time as we expect increased participa-
tion from institutional and strategic investors.

= Public Capital Markets

More than 300 cannabis-related companies are traded on one or more stock markets in the United
States, Canada and other international locations. Although these companies are publicly traded, most
are in early stages of development, have de minimis revenue and are not profitable. We use the term
“cannabis-related” to include companies that participate solely in the cannabis industry and those that
participate in the cannabis industry in addition to other industries or markets.

The ability of companies to access capital markets is dependent largely on the legal landscape
for cannabis in a particular country. For example, the capital markets in countries such as Canada,
Australia, Germany and Israel (countries that have a more permissive legal framework for cannabis)
have been receptive to cannabis-related companies, while the reception by capital markets in the United
States has been more varied.

In evaluating publicly traded companies, an investor should be cognizant of where the company is
traded, as there are significant differences across the various exchanges and markets with respect to list-
ing requirements, liquidity, independent research and types of investors. Many cannabis-related com-
panies are traded on more than one market in order to attract additional investors and facilitate trading
in multiple jurisdictions. However, we believe that it is instructive to evaluate a company based on the
primary market on which it trades (We determine a company’s primary market based on a number of
factors, including stock price history, trading volume and availability of estimates.)

In the United States, a limited number of cannabis-related companies are traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market (Nasdaq), the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and the NYSE American (NYSE
American), the NYSE’s market for small to mid-size capitalization companies. In addition, more than
200 cannabis-related companies are traded on the over-the-counter stock market (OTC). Nasdaq and

118 © 2017 Ackrell Capital, LLC | Member FINRA/SIPC

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024754
