Note

iposing residence had a stone
mt door that wouldn't have
istle. And, like our neighbor’s
ram: raised brass letters that

, the two women belonged to
ul man who was also a regis-
ste for underage women.

n-year-olds. But younger girls

ised dozens of young women,
‘ttled potential lawsuits with
‘ison time for his crimes. A bit

in the world again.
tng women.

ries about Jeffrey Epstein for a

ld not have been more differ-

oth live, is small and tightly

1e people.

idlines in papers all over the

:d a scandal that continues to

smell.

ase in the media and talked
I wondered why it had taken
o catch up with Epstein. And,

30 little jail time.

tions, but there were others:

ey, possibly billions? No one

ea a ant oemmsipganhintla. amp Saw db me

Se ne eee

AuTHor’s Note

seemed to know. And while the news media had some details
about the underage girls, reporters seemed only to know what
had happened at the moment of his arrest.

Epstein definitely liked his massages. He got them from two,
even three, young women a day, right in his mansion on the
island. He'd been operating on an almost industrial scale. But
who were these girls? Where had they come from? How did they
find their way to his home on a secluded street in Palm Beach?

Epstein had powerful friends. He'd flown Bill Clinton around
in his private jet and rubbed shoulders with heads of state, Nobel
Prize winners, any number of billionaires. Prince Andrew, the
man sixth in line to the British throne, had been a close friend.

Were any of these connections the reason that Epstein was
now a free man?

I wanted to know. After all, our homes were a half mile apart,
and Epstein’s actions had had an undeniable impact on the town
where | lived. Stirred by that sighting of Epstein up in New York,
Tim Malloy and I began to investigate.

We partnered with John Connolly, a tough, no-nonsense
journalist who had once been a cop with the NYPD and had been
following the Epstein story for close to ten years.

Working together, we interviewed Epstein’s friends, going all
the way back to his childhood; we met with Epstein’s acquain-
tances, employees, neighbors, and business associates, and finally
with the families of his victims. We interviewed law enforce-
ment officers who'd worked on the investigation in Palm Beach
and lawyers on all sides of the resulting court cases, some of
which are still working their way through the court system.

Combining our interview material with evidence obtained
from court filings and other investigations, such as the one

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019116
