in the pages of The Atlantic Monthly that he would not “publish any future work of mine
which may do damage in the hands of irresponsible militarists.”°° He remained
ambivalent about the transformative power of new technologies, indulging in neither the
boundless hype nor the digital utopianism of later pundits.

“Progress imposes not only new possibilities for the future but new restrictions,”
he wrote, in Human Use. He was concerned about human-made restrictions as well as
technological ones, especially Cold War restrictions that threatened the flow of
information so critical to cybernetic systems: “Under the impetus of Senator [Joseph]
McCarthy and his imitators, the blind and excessive classification of military
information” was driving political leaders in the United States to adopt a “secretive frame
of mind paralleled in history only in the Venice of the Renaissance.” Wiener, echoing
many outspoken veterans of the Manhattan Project, argued that the postwar obsession
with secrecy—especially around nuclear weapons—stemmed from a misunderstanding of
the scientific process. The only genuine secret about the production of nuclear weapons,
he wrote, was whether such bombs could be built. Once that secret had been revealed,
with the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, no amount of state-imposed secrecy
would stop others from puzzling through chains of reasoning like those the Manhattan
Project researchers had followed. As Wiener memorably put it, “There is no Maginot
Line of the brain.”

To drive this point home, Wiener borrowed Shannon’s fresh ideas about
information theory. In 1948, Shannon, a mathematician and engineer working at Bell
Labs, had published a pair of lengthy articles in the Be// System Technical Journal.
Introducing the new work to a broad readership in 1949, mathematician Warren Weaver
explained that in Shannon’s formulation, “the word information...is used in a special
sense that must not be confused with its ordinary usage. In particular, information must
not be confused with meaning.”?! Linguists and poets might be concerned about the
“semantic” aspects of communication, Weaver continued, but not engineers like
Shannon. Rather, “this word ‘information’ in communication theory relates not so much
to what you do say, as to what you could say.” In Shannon’s now-famous formulation,
the information content of a string of symbols was given by the logarithm of the number
of possible symbols from which a given string was chosen. Shannon’s key insight was
that the information of a message was just like the entropy of a gas: a measure of the
system’s disorder.

Wiener borrowed this insight when composing Human Use. If information was
like entropy, then it could not be conserved—or contained. Physicists in the 19th century
had demonstrated that the total energy of a physical system must always remain the same,
a perfect balance between the start and the end of a process. Not so for entropy, which
would inexorably increase over time, an imperative that came to be known as the second
law of thermodynamics. From that stark distinction—energy is conserved, whereas
entropy must grow—followed enormous cosmic consequences. Time must flow forward;

3° Norbert Wiener, “A Scientist Rebels,” Zhe Atlantic Monthly, January 1947.

31 Warren Weaver, “Recent Contributions to the Mathematical Theory of Communication,” in Claude
Shannon & Warren Weaver, The Mathematical Theory of Communication (Urbana, IL: University of
Illinois Press, 1949), p. 8 (emphasis in original). Shannon’s 1948 papers were republished in the same
volume.

110

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016330
