UK challenges centred on currency, but future role
as European hub is unclear

While the UK has faced short-term challenges over low

interest rates (relative to the US), the Brexit decision
poses a threat to the long-term attractiveness of

the UK. Brexit is seen as a significant negative for
UK investment, and investment sovereigns with
European interests questioned the future of the UK
as an ‘investment hub’ for Europe, given uncertainty
over taxes on imports and market access. Liquidity
sovereigns also noted their concern that demand for
UK government bonds would drop, challenging the
liquidity of their holdings.

Despite this negative sentiment, UK allocations
remain relatively stable with stated declines
likely linked to currency fluctuations rather than
withdrawal, as demonstrated in figure 9. Furthermore,
the fall in value of the pound has led to a rally in UK
stocks as export-linked businesses benefit from more
competitive pricing. The low value of the pound also
allows UK asset managers to offer their services at
a discount to international competitors. This low
entry price into the UK represents an opportunity
for UK managers who can demonstrate local market
expertise and robust currency hedging processes to
international sovereign investors.

There has also been a demonstration of ongoing
sovereign commitment to long-term alternative
investments in the UK. Many sovereigns noted that
they were unlikely to cancel UK real estate assets
in the near future and there have been several
high-profile statements of renewed commitment to
UK infrastructure investments following the Brexit
decision, including Thames Water and Heathrow
Airport. However, respondents noted that these are
long-term investments which are unlikely to move
until the outlook of the UK as a preferred investment
destination (comparable to the US or Germany)
becomes clearer.

17

Mi 2016
M2017

Fig 9. Exchange rate, geographic allocations to the UK (% AUM)

GBP/USD exchange rate
(External data)

Geographic allocations
to the UK (% AUM)
(Sovereign sample)

LHS: Source - XE currency data. Data as of beginning of given year. RHS: Sample is based on
sovereign investors and excludes central banks. Data is not weighted by AUM.
Sample: 2016=55, 2017=57.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026697
