effectively hawking his secret sauce algorithm) and invest up to $5 million
with each. (Epstein’s advantage here, over traditional investment firms, is
that he was proposing to do this without needing to own the algorithm itself,
the manner in which many firms operate to the disadvantage of the quants.) I
knew paltry little about this and so rather found myself identifying with the
young women to whom Epstein was explaining the basic math and
mechanics. (Epstein demands a certain amount of pedagogical attention in
return for a wealth of information.)

Hefnerian prurience becomes quite businesslike: poised young women
in a mansion on the Upper East Side with various office responsibilities—
really not that different from any of the art galleries in the surrounding
neighborhood.

The Epstein house/office is, not unlike many nearby galleries, an
ultimate club, a private reserve, a place of shared and valuable
information—indeed, the kind of place, that, even for the most ardent
conspiracists, might seem a little too movie-like. And while it’s hard to
explain why, given the radio-active nature of Epstein’s disgrace, the rich and
powerful still beat a path to his door, it’s also notable in the fixed hierarchy
of who comes to whose turf, that everybody, when they went to see Epstein,
comes to him.

A week in late September, U.N. week as it happened, began, on
Sunday, at Epstein’s house with a colloquial for billionaires—Gates, TK,
TK, TK.

Epstein, preternaturally responsive to both the price of oil and to the
politics of the middle of East, entertained that evening a delegation from
Qatar, including Sheikh Hamad, the foreign minister. Hamad, indeed, lives
across the street in a similarly furnished house—he and Epstein have the
same decorator. Epstein, in his relaxed and amused demeanor, kept
prodding: “Why are you financing the bad guys? What do you get out of
that?”

The Qatarians, in some mild diplomatic discomfort, seemed most
worried that their bid for the World Cup might be compromised by bribery
allegations.

At 9:00 next morning, Epstein is joined for breakfast in the dining
room by Reid Weingarten, who’s represented among other fat cats in
trouble, Worldcom’s Bernie Ebbers and Goldman Sach’s Lloyd Blankfein.
Weingarten, horse, with a cold, and dejected, is just back from a failed
defense of former Connecticut Governor John Rowland. (Epstein: “You
actually believe he was getting fucked?” Weingarten: “From minute one.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022957
