10

that Hamas has a regional focus, while al Qaeda's is global. Hamas
bears no love for the United States, but it has not deliberately targeted
Americans. Al Qaeda, of course, sees the United States as its primary
enemy, and it doesn't stop there. European countries, supposed
enemies of Islam such as Russia and India, and Arab regimes of all
stripes are on their hit list. Other components of the Salafi-jihadist
movement (of which al Qaeda is a part) focus operations on killing
Shiite Muslims, whom they view as apostates. Hamas, in contrast,
does not call for the overthrow of Arab regimes and works with
Shiite Iran and the Alawite-dominated secular regime in Damascus,
pragmatically preferring weapons, money, and assistance in training
to ideological consistency.

Hamas, like its parent organization, the Muslim Brotherhood, also
devotes much of its attention to education, health care, and social
services. Like it or not, by caring for the poor and teaching the next
generation of Muslims about its view of the world, Hamas is
fundamentally reshaping Palestinian society. Thus, many Palestinians
who do not share Hamas's worldview nonetheless respect it; in part
because the Palestinian moderates so beloved of the West have often
failed to deliver on basic government functions. The old Arab
nationalist visions of the 1950s and 1960s that animated the moderate
Palestinian leader Mahmood Abbas and his mentor Yasir Arafat have
less appeal to Palestinians today.

One of the greatest differences today, as the Arab spring raises the
hope that democracy will take seed across the Middle East, is that
Hamas accepts elections (and, in fact, took power in Gaza in part
because of them) while al Qaeda vehemently rejects them. For
Ayman al-Zawahiri, Osama bin Ladin's deputy and presumed heir-
apparent, elections put man's (and, even worse, woman's) wishes
above God's. A democratic government could allow the sale of
alcohol, cooperate militarily with the United States, permit women to

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023526
