16 Wednesday March 21, 2018

FORUM

GLOBAL
TIMES

CPC-led system a political innovation

Editor’s Note:

The Two Sessions, the annual meet-
ings of China’s top legislative and
advisory bodies, have been under
global spotlight for the past few
weeks. This year’s Two Sessions

are of extraordinary importance as
they have adopted the constitutional
amendments, restructured govern-
ment institutions and elected the new
national leadership. To understand
what the institutional changes mean
for China’s future, as well as the
policy agenda for the coming year,
Global Times (GT) Washington-
based correspondent Hu Zexi talked
‘o Dr. Robert Lawrence Kuhn (Kuhn)
who is a long-time China observer,
and author and editor of over 25
books. Kuhn has been invited to Bei-
jing to take a closer look at this year’s
Two Sessions.

GT: What kind of policy issues are

you following during the Two Ses-
sions?

Kuhn: The proposed amendments

to the Constitution of the People’s
Republic of China give a road map

of areas deemed critical. Several

of the provisions strengthen the
stability, continuity and robustness of
governance. Beyond these, I looked for
any deviations from expectations, for
example, on State-owned enterprise
reform or local government financing.
I also looked for any reaction to the
increased push-back against China’s
rising global capabilities from certain
countries.

GT: In recent years, the Chinese govern-
ment has made more efforts to make
Two Sessions’ agenda better meet public
expectations. For example, the govern-
ment will cooperate with media websites
to conduct surveys
about top policy areas
that the public wants
the Two Sessions to
address. How do you
evaluate such efforts?
Kuhn: Irrespective of the nature of the
political system or ideology, transpar-
ency in governance is the best way for
government to deliver effective, ef-
ficient programs, and enhance credibil-
ity. The Chinese government has been
striving to increase transparency, which
deserves praise.

The Two Sessions are a vehicle for
the government to communicate with
the people and engage them through
media in dealing with all the critical
issues.

GT: How do you see the political belief
of China that democracy should meet the
real or fundamental needs of the public?
Kuhn: Government performance and
democracy are not the same.

The former is indeed assessed by
alleviating poverty, reducing pollution,
improving healthcare and the like.
Democracy is the public participation of
common people in the complex process
of governance.

Thus, true democracy is much
broader than one-person-one-vote.

It includes, primarily, the capacity to
provide substantive input on complex

issues and to provide oversight in the
management of officials.

GT: China for long has argued that
democracy or any other political mecha-
nism should be developed on the basis
of a country’s specific condition. How do
you see this belief, as well as its practice?
Kuhn: Certainly, political systems dif-
fer, even between countries that have
the same ideology. Nonetheless, there
are great commonalities in the goals
and objectives shared by all countries
and people. I suspect that over time,
measured in not less than decades and
perhaps even centuries, there will be

a convergence of
systems toward
what I call with a
smile, “Optimiza-
tionism” — leaders,
officials, executives
making myriad decisions every day to
optimize outcomes without thinking of
the ideology.

GT: There’s talk about China’s unique
system of multiparty cooperation and
political consultation led by the Com-
munist Party of China (CPC) during the
Two Sessions. How do you observe this
system?

Kuhn: The benefits of a one-party-rule
are apparent: the coherence of policies,
rapid decision-making and formula-
tion of strategies that require long-term
consistency for long-term commitment.
But all systems of governance have
trade-offs, and two challenges of one-
party-rule are assuring that all rational
points of view, including dissenting
ones, are included in the decision-mak-
ing process; and systemic checks and
balances for oversight of officials at all
levels of government.

China’s system of multi-party co-
operation and consultation, led by the
CPC, is a political innovation in includ-
ing inputs and ideas from diverse seg-
ments of society, while still maintaining
harmony of spirit and consistency in

policies. But because of its scale and
power, the CPC, which is the ruling
party, has a higher obligation to pay
attention to other parties and voices. A
true democracy is measured by how the
majority treats the minority.

GT: As a decades-long observer of China,
what do you think the constitutional
amendment will bring to the country?
Kuhn: This constitutional amendment
is all about strengthening China’s
system of governance, especially the
Party’s leadership of the country and
President Xi Jinping’s leadership of the
Party and the nation.

Going by the whiplash of Western
reactions, one could be forgiven for as-
suming that the amendment is all about
abolishing term limits of the president
and vice president. In fact, there are 21
clauses in the constitutional amend-
ment and to understand where China
is going, one must gauge the meaning
and intent of all of them.

Xi has been consistent in respect-
ing, indeed in championing, China’s
Constitution, and by now amending it,
he underscores the congruity between
the realities of how China is governed
and what the Constitution says — thus
bolstering Xi’s commitment to the Rule
of Law.

Establishing the National Supervi-
sory Law and Commissions, expanding
the anti-corruption campaign to all
public organs and organizations, reaf-
firms Xi’s commitment to enhancing
the rule of law.

As for term limits, it is not that Xi
will hold the formal titles of leader-
ship for life, but that he will hold real
eadership long enough to bring about
China’s national rejuvenation and es-
ablish Chinese type democratic norms.

All factors considered, because of
China’s special conditions and Xi’s spe-
cial capabilities, abolishing term limits
may be good for China. It is commonly
said that China’s system of governance
can ensure stability and consistency,

which is a necessary requirement
for advancing reform.

GT: What do you see as the under-
lying reason for the institutional
restructuring of the government
passed during the Two Sessions?
Kuhn: The sweeping restructur-
ing of the Chinese government
streamlines the bureaucracy,
eliminates institutional conflicts
of interest between government
bodies, aligns authority with
responsibility, and, significantly,
enhances the leadership of the
Party in the management as well
as the oversight of the govern-
ment. Although the restructur-
ing has multiple motivations, a
prime driver is to support China’s
continuing development under
complex conditions — a slowing
economy, uncertain financial risk,
unacceptable pollution, the special
demands of innovation.

Given China’s challenges at
home and abroad the government
restructure is timely. Some media
outlets describe it as a “reshuffle,”
as if the random rearrangement of

a deck of cards. I beg to differ.

This restructuring is as deliberate as
it is far-reaching — and planned precise-
ly to address a host of contradictions.
The outcome is to strengthen CPC’s
leadership throughout the country. In
fact, deepening reform is now defined,
for state as well as for Party institutions,
as strengthening the CPC’s leadership
in every sector. The aim is consistency
and uniformity in implementing policy.

The announcement of the restruc-
turing followed swiftly after the adop-
tion by the National People’s Congress
of the constitutional amendment, and
although both were long in the works,
their rapid-fire sequence serves to un-
derscore the preeminence of President
Xi in setting the new agenda, and the
power of the Party in implementing the
new policies.

GT: Environment has always been a
heated topic at the Two Sessions. How
do you see the prospect of green develop-
ment in China?
Kuhn: | have been following China’s
environmental problems for over two
decades, and until recent years under
President Xi. While officials would of
course decry pollution, it only became
progressively worse. Companies flouted
the law. The minuscule fines were a
small price for not worrying about the
cost of controlling pollution. Officials
were loath to risk impeding economic
growth. Today is dramatically different.
President Xi has raised ecology and
environment to the highest category of
national priorities. Ecological progress
is among the five top goals (along with
economic, political, cultural and social
progress). Green is the third of the New
(Five Major) Concepts of Development.
The change in attitudes toward pollu-
tion is stunning. For example, fines for
corporate pollution now hurt.

Page Editor:
yujincui@globaltimes.com.cn

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023687
