But a state grand jury found the witnesses in the case were not credible and threw out all
but the single charge of soliciting a hooker in his luxurious Palm Beach home. Epstein's
lawyers and friends now say he's the hapless victim of a vendetta by Palm Beach Police
Chief Michael Reiter, whom they describe as a born-again nut case.

According to the police investigation, a copy of which was obtained by the Palm Beach
Post, detectives took statements from 17 witnesses and five alleged victims. Haley
Robson, 20, a Palm Beach Community College student who described herself as like a
Heidi Fleiss, says she got naked to give Epstein a massage, then brought him six girls
ages 14-16 for massages and sex at his home. She said they were paid $200 per session.
Cops also allege that Epstein's personal assistant, Sarah Kellen, who hasn't been charged,
set up the liaisons and put fresh sheets on the massage table and supplied massage oils.
Police searched through Epstein's garbage and retrieved sex toys and feminine hygiene
products.

Epstein's Palm Beach lawyer, Jack Goldberger, told Page Six that the Florida state
attorney concluded the cops had looked at evidence from a one-sided perspective. He
added that Epstein had passed an extensive lie-detector test in which he was grilled about
underage girls.

Epstein's New York lawyer, Gerald Lefcourt, said, The prosecutor didn't want to bring
any charges in this case, but because of the craziness of this police chief, we have the
charge of solicitation.

Last night, WPTV in Palm Beach reported that one reason Robson's testimony may have
been dismissed is the kinky Web page she has on MySpace featuring photos of her
female friends playing with sex toys. One friend even uses the name Pimpin' Made EZ.
Robson, who isn't charged, also writes, Do what you do to make that money, life is

a gamble. Stay hustling.”

A spokeswoman for Reiter said, We think our investigation speaks for itself.

Cops also allege that [Jeffrey Epstein]'s personal assistant, Sarah Kellen, who hasn't been
charged, set up the liaisons and put fresh sheets on the massage table and supplied
massage oils. Police searched through Epstein's garbage and retrieved sex toys and
feminine hygiene products.

Epstein's Palm Beach lawyer, Jack Goldberger, told Page Six that the Florida state
attorney concluded the cops had looked at evidence from a one-sided perspective. He
added that Epstein had passed an extensive lie-detector test in which he was grilled about
underage girls.

NewYork Post — 09/20/2007

JAIL LOOMS FOR SEX-CASE MOGUL

September 20, 2007 -- THE sordid sex case involving Jeffrey Epstein may

be coming to an unhappy ending -with a plea deal that would put the

publicity-shy billionaire behind bars for 15 months for allegedly soliciting

underage teen girls for sex at his Palm Beach mansion.

Sources tell Page Six that Epstein’s high-powered lawyers - including Alan

Dershowitz, Gerald Lefcourt, Roy Black and Kenneth Starr - have been

negotiating a deal with federal prosecutors who are probing, among other

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030304
