to pieces, and it's much harder to speak against condoms when funeral processions wind
through your neighborhood every weekend. Occasional religious educators claim that
promoting condom usage waters down their message and therefore makes anti-HIV
education less effective; but most churches I've encountered take a pragmatic, condom-
promoting approach. Indeed, one of the best HIV curricula I've seen so far is the
Channels of Hope workshop, created by the Christian organization World Vision and
designed to train church groups. It not only promotes explicit condom education, but
urges compassion towards sex workers and homosexuals. And it discusses why marital
rape isn't okay! I'd venture to say that the majority of liberal, secular sex education
curricula in the USA aren't as awesome.

Just the other day, I was surveying a bunch of kids aged 11-13 and they asked how to put
on a condom. Cursing myself silently, I had to admit that I didn't have any to show
them... at which point one child dashed from the room and returned minutes later bearing
both a condom, plus a rather splintery stick from a firewood pile. Condom distribution is
in full swing; I can think of three places to pick up free condoms within a ten-minute
walk from where I'm seated. Condoms are described in kids' textbooks, and condom
demonstrations are welcome in every school. Condoms are lauded by politicians, pop
icons, and religious leaders. Take any person off the street and they'll know the HIV-
prevention mantra: ABC -- Abstain, Be faithful, use Condoms. Yet condom usage rates
are still killingly low.

KK ok

Though I'm fishbelly-pale, I'm not great at wearing sunscreen, and I live in Africa. I try...
I mean, I kinda try... I mean it's so annoying to apply, and it feels gross! And this
notwithstanding the fact that I literally have ten bottles of top-quality, non-sticky, oil-free
sunscreen sitting across the room from me as I type this. On the other hand, I religiously
take my malaria prophylactic pill; I've noticed no side effects, and getting malaria would
really suck.

I recall one recurring conversation between myself and a former boyfriend, whom I dated
for years. We'd both had excellent sex education, and yet we used withdrawal as our
primary birth-control method. We did it even though we both had boxes of condoms
available. We did it even though neither of us wanted me to get pregnant, and -- though
I'm definitely pro-choice -- I wasn't sure I could bring myself to have an abortion. We'd
both been tested, and we trusted each other not to cheat, but that's some dangerous trust
to extend -- and we knew it.

One particular moment comes to mind: we were lying lazily in bed together, talking
about how stupid we were.

We should be more careful,” he said seriously.
We really should, I agreed.

Let's be more careful,” he suggested.

I nodded.

We weren't.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018590
