helping them to navigate the ambitions of their wealth. They’ve satisfied
their business dreams. Now there are the separate challenges and
possibilities of their actual wealth. If they had big dreams before, it’s
nothing to what they can have now.

In essence, as Epstein becomes more of a public figure the response to
this description of his livelihood, is, in the media and in high social circles,
“bullshit.” True, there is no clear alternate narrative. No one is accusing him
of anything, accept, sometimes, guilt by association. (In addition to Robert
Maxwell, who will be accused of fraud, there’s Steven Hoffenberg, briefly a
New York high flyer, who went to jail for a Ponzi scheme, for whom
Epstein acted as a consultant—along with, he points out, Paul Volcker.) But
the characterization persist: if it’s not clear, 1t must be murky. Sure,
Goldman Sachs partners and tech geniuses, they might have stratospheric
wealth, but what to make of a Coney Island, Zelig-like no-namer?

In 1994, just at the moment when Prince Charles is on television
acknowledging his love for Camilla Parker Bowles, Jeffrey Epstein is sitting
with his arm around Princess Diana at a dinner at the Serpentine Galley in
London (Diana is wearing her “revenge” dress that evening). Graydon
Carter, into his second years as editor of Vanity Fair, is also at the dinner.
Epstein’s rise and Carter’s rise are not, with a little critical interpretation,
that different. Both are a function of the age of new money, both are helped
by strategic relationships with the exceptionally wealthy (1.e. they are social
climbers), both men have made themselves up. To say that Epstein, in the
company of the Princess, sticks in Carter’s craw would be a big
understatement. Epstein becomes one of the “what do you know about him”
figures in Carter’s gossip trail—a story waiting to happen. A variety of the
gossip that begins to circulate about Epstein—for instance, that he secretly
films his guests—is seeded by Carter, who once advised me not to go to
Epstein’s house or accept a ride in his car least I risk being blackmail. (“For
what?” I asked Carter. “You can’t even begin to imagine,” said Carter.)

Epstein is playing a cat and mouse game with his own growing wealth
and influence. He is private and secretive, but grandly so. He joins the board
of Rockefeller University. He’s suddenly on the Trilateral commission, that
cabal of business people who fancy themselves, and who are fancied by
conspiracy buffs, as running the world. He buys from his client Limited
Founder Les Wexner the larges private house in Manhattan. (Rumors will
continue for many years, that Wexner owns the house and Epstein is just
squatting in it—an 18-year squat.) He buys an airplane. He buys another. He
expands his holdings in New Mexico. He begins a Zanadu refurbishment of
his Caribbean Island.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022758
