and attention to details and mechanics. with regard Phaidon I was not shown one single document , not

one.!! Brad wanted to keep it private between he, and his so called  advisors however as he was out of the
office during the most important transaction of the year, I did get to spend time with joslin Joe and john, - the
situation in your office is totally ludicrous - to summarize - the list I provided to Brad last December -

of things I thought were a priority to get done - still remains in the whole unresolved.

The IT, is virtually untouched and is still in desperate need of a format - reporting flawed cumbersome and
inaccurate . all done by hand as one -off exercises , when either you or brad ask for it - airplane: re structure,
(my only suggested priority in june ) is really ,no further ahead, ,consultants up the kazoo but nothing at all
done.( the office was told by Brad not to share the outside proposals with me - brad has no idea even as to
what questions to ask. he knows little of finance, is bullshitted over by almost everyone in the office. a little
man , using your power, to appear larger . Eileen was self aware enough to know she was over her head , that is
a huge difference. bad info is rampant a simple emblematic example- 3 million in deductions Im told
were taken for art space but on closer examination it turns out they cannot be used at all. ( ZERO benefit
) though you will be told yes they were deducted on the return they said that is the only real question you were
focused on !  were they deducted  not - is there a benefit !! I asked for the balance sheet and P and L
for Regan arts , a basic first step in order to check your financials. sorry we never got one? though 9.8
million invested, no p&l, nothing!, a construction project run amok , no budget, the coo fired after only 3
months. , no clue. fyi artspace financials are also a total mess. ( no receivables ??). when i asked for a list of
what got done and did not, i received the email from Brad basicailly mind you own business. so much was
promised. !!!

As in your words probably your closest friend and in order to turn the page. I hope the following to
be constructive

Here is alist of things I think would be in your interest to get done asap .but definitely not by me .

isuggest you form new grats. , hire a high level tax partner. use your trading accounts as they remain

a paramount requirement 16 months after i emailed you re their importance. THe Phaidon transaction papered
and structured as contemplated DOES NOT WORK , its as simple as that DOES NOT !! I suggest again
that you re-do bank loans. no need to pay interest at higher rates on boat or plane. . as Richard is now no
longer trustee. re- do will, make suydam executor , with Barry, and john as back up. pay 1 million a year for
executor role. get rid of Judy Black trust, deal with gifts and their tax returns, . review amounts to kids at fixed
ages. put more protections in for Alex and Victoria. , distribute some money to kids let them make

decisions. , decide art division with children in attendance . have fire drill done on estate. fill out

estate returns as if you and Debra died today, choose advisers - rick bronstein said the only 1040 he ever filled
out was his own. Halperin has a conflict that should be addressed., A strategy of the use of art should be
implemented. . you have tax consultants it consultants. plane operation consultant. . boat

consultants. architects, lighting , art, legal, . foundation , deal with TRA , BRH, rationalize

investments. cash flow. reporting, gaming disclosures. foreign, gift. . prepare tax projections for 15 and 16, .
deal with neg basis ( tufts gain, debt financed. art partnership, pledges. sell stock , art, deal with phaidon

debt. athene,? income, capital , foreign , exit, corporate, insurance regs, out and inbound

issues, basis, appropriate discount rates. ? terminations. control. , qualified dividends. corporate

tolls, inversion rules. , grat issues, short swing and other sec disclosures, I still think you might consider a
Rothshcild bank transaction they have 150b and a distribution network with no products , private

bank Rockefeller Rothschild. financial service. deal with UK visa issue sooner rather than later. we can talk
about Rowen request re Athene , complex 2 billion in taxes on transaction. ?!

the facts as i see them

in June and then again Sept, we both agreed to a 50% of phaidon payout., then only after weeks, when you
delayed any detailed discussion of money wanting to give the issue a thoughtful response ( which I fully
understand ) . you unilaterally changed changed our agreement.. 5m would be reserved for the future ? . and
out of the remaining 15m ,? 1 would receive only a third. ( note : I'm confident that both the debt , and the
artspace investment will also lead to a write off of another 30 m. plus ) In my dining room ,you were

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023308
