BofA Merrill Lynch is aware that the implementation of the ideas expressed in this report may depend upon an investor's ability to short securities or other financial instruments and that such

action may be limited by regulations prohibiting or restricting shortselling in many jurisdictions. Investors are urged to seek advice regarding the applicability of such regu

executing any short idea contained in this report.
Foreign currency rates of exchange may adversely affect
effectively assume currency risk.

UK Readers: The protections provided by the U.K. regulatory regime, including the Financial Services Scheme, do not apply in general to business coordinated by BofA Merrill
h policies relating to conflicts of interest are described at http://go.bofa.com/coi.
ments linked to securities that may have been recommended in this report. MLPF&S or one of its

located outside of the United Kingdom. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Researc
MLPF&S or one of its affiliates is a regular issuer of traded financial instru
time, hold a trading position (long or short) in the securities and financial
BofA Merrill Lynch, through business units other than Bo
with, and reach different conclusions from, the information presented in
methods of the persons who prepared them, and BofA Merrill Lynch is un
recipient of this report.

In the event that the recipient received this report pursuant to a contract
therewith ML
beyond the delivery of this report (unless otherwise agreed specifically in
transactions, including transactions in any securities mentioned in this re
Copyright and General Information regarding Research Reports:
Copyright 20

instrum

writing
port.

and client websites and other portals by BofA Merrill Lynch and are not pu
constitutes your agreement not to redistribute, retransmit, or disclose to others tl
recommenda
Materials prepared by BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research personnel are ba
information known to, professionals in other business areas of BofA Merri
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research and certain business groups. As a resul
research reports. To the extent this report discusses any legal proceeding or issue
should consult their own legal advisers as to issues of law relating to the subj
any BofA Merrill Lynch entity and/or its directors, officers and employees may be
on public information. Facts and views presented in this material that relate to an

sed on
I Lynch
, BofA

professionals in other business areas of BofA Merrill Lynch in connection with the
herei

Any information relating to the tax status of financial instruments discussed
seek tax advice based on their particular circumstances from an independent tax

The information herein (other than disclosure information relating to BofA Merril
may contain links to third-party websites. BofA Merrill Lynch is not responsible fo

between the recipient and MLPF&S for t
PF&S may be deemed to be acting as an investment adviser, such status relates, if at all, solely to the

6 Bank of America Corporation. All rights reserved. This research report is prepared for the use of Bo

disclosed, in whole or in part, or in any form or manner, without the express written consent of BofA Merrill Lynch.

ions, estimates or price targets) without first obtaining expressed permiss

ect m

ents discussed in this report.

by MLPF&S). MLPF&S is and continues to ac

BofA Merri

ne con

ion from an authorized officer of BofA Merrill Lynch.
public information. Facts and views presented in this material
, including investment banking personnel. BofA Merrill Lynch
errill Lynch does not disclose certain client relationships witl
5, ithas not been prepared as nor is it intended
atter of this report. BofA Merril
aintiffs, defendants, co-defend
such proceedings have not been reviewed by, discussed with, and may not reflect
egal proceedings or matters relevant to such proceedings.

nis not intended to provide tax
professional.
Lynch and its affiliates) was ob
r the content of any third-party website or any

p
iy

he provision of research services for a separate fee,
person with whom MLPF&S has contracted directly and does not extend
solely as a broker-dealer in connection with tl

‘A Merrill Lynch clients and may not be redistributed, retransmitted or
| Lynch research reports are distributed simul
blicly-available materials. Any unauthorized use or disclosure Is prohibited. Receipt and review of tl
ents, opinions, conclusion, or information contained in this report (including any investment

have not been reviewed by, and may not re
has established information
h, or compensation received from, such issuers in
to express any legal conclusion, opinion or advice. Investors
Lynch Global Research personnel’s knowledge of legal proceedings in which
ants or co-plaintiffs with or involving issuers mentioned in this report is based

ations prior to

he value, price or income of any security or financial instrument mentioned in this report. Investors in such securities and instruments

Lynch entities

affiliates may, at any

‘A Merrill Lynch Global Research, may have issued and may in the future issue trading ideas or recommendations that are inconsistent
his report. Such ideas or recommendations reflect the different time frames, assumptions, views and analytical
der no obligation to ensure that such other trading ideas or recommendations are brought to the a

tention of any
and in connection
he execution of any

aneously to internal
his research report

lect
barriers between

information known to,

advice or to be used by anyone to provide tax advice. Investors are urged to

ained from various sources and we do not guarantee its accuracy. This report
inked content contained in a third-party website. Content

contained on such third-party websites is not part of this report and is not incorporated by reference into this report. The inclusion of a link in this report does not imply any endorsement by or

any affiliation with BofA Merrill Lynch. Access to any third-party website is a
submitting any personal information to them. BofA Merrill Lynch is not responsib

All opinions, projections and estimates constitute the judgment of the author as of

e

or such terms and privacy policies and expressly disclaims any liability for them.
he date of the report and are subject to change without notice. Prices also are su

your own risk, and you should always review the terms and privacy policies at third-party websites before

bject to change without

notice. BofA Merrill Lynch is under no obligation to update this report and BofA Merrill Lynch's ability to publish research on the subject issuer(s) in the future is subject to applicable quiet

periods. You should therefore assume that BofA Merrill Lynch will not update any
Certain outstanding reports may contain discussions and/or investment opinions
recent research report relating to an issuer prior to making an investment decisio

inancial instruments) nor should the analyses or opinion(s) be considered a solici

his report or its contents.

nsome cases, an issuer may be classified as Restricted or may be Under Review o
its security and/or financial instruments) to be suspended or withdrawn and shou

act, circumstance or opinion contained in this report.

relating to securities, financial instruments and/or issuers that are no longer curren
n.
r Extended Review. In each case, investors should consider any investment opinion
dnot rely on the analyses and investment opinion(s) pertaining to such issuer (or i
a

. Always refer to the most

relating to such issuer (or
s securities and/or

ion of any kind. Sales persons and financial advisors affiliated with MLPF&S or any of its affiliates may not
solicit purchases of securities or financial instruments that are Restricted or Under Review and may only solicit securities under Extended Review in accordance with
either BofA Merrill Lynch nor any officer or employee of BofA Merrill Lynch accepts any liability whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential damages or losses arising from any use of

irm policies.

14 Japan Economics Viewpoint | 18 November 2016

BankofAmerica <2
Merrill Lynch

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014423
