Page 2 of 31
104 J. Crim. L. & Criminology 59, *59

[61]

Introduction

In recent years, federal and state enactments have given crime victims extensive rights to participate in criminal cases. Many of
these rights apply only after the filing of criminal charges, such as the victim's right to be heard during court proceedings. A
crime victim's right to deliver an impact statement at sentencing, for instance, can only be exercised after a prosecutor has filed
charges against a defendant and obtained a conviction. Other rights, however, can apply even before the formal filing of
charges. As one example, the Crime Victims' Rights Act (CVRA) ! extends to federal crime victims the right to confer with
prosecutors. But can victims exercise this right before charges have been filed?

This question has tremendous practical importance. In many cases, prosecutors negotiate pleas well before any charges are ever
drafted. If crime victims’ rights enactments do not extend rights to victims until the formal filing of charges, then crime victims
can be effectively excluded from the plea bargaining process. Yet the exclusion of victims in early stages of a criminal case
affects more than just the content of a plea deal. Crime victims will also lose other important rights in the process if the formal
filing of charges is the necessary trigger for those rights. If, for example, prosecutors work out a nonprosecution agreement
with an offender, they need not notify his victims of what they are doing or of the fact that potential charges will never be filed.

The issue of pre-charging rights has most prominently surfaced in connection with federal cases. In 2010, the Department of
Justice's Office of Legal Counsel (OLC) weighed in on the issue and released a legal opinion arguing that victims of federal
crimes have no CVRA rights during a federal criminal investigation. ? The Justice Department took the position that rights
under the CVRA do not apply until prosecutors formally initiate criminal proceedings by filing a complaint, information, or
indictment. The Department claims to find support for that limiting interpretation of the statute in its plain language and
legislative history.

Shortly after the Department released its opinion, one of the CVRA's congressional sponsors, then-Senator Jon Kyl, sent a letter
to Attorney General Eric Holder strenuously objecting to the Department's conclusions. Senator Kyl directly stated his view
that when Congress enacted the [*62] CVRA, it intended to protect crime victims throughout the criminal justice process -
from the investigative phases to the final conclusion of a case. ? Senator Kyl contested the Department's analysis of the statute
and, in particular, its use of statements from him during Congress's consideration of the CVRA.

This Article sides with the CVRA's cosponsor and concludes that crime victims’ CVRA rights attach before formal charging.
Both the CVRA's plain language and its legislative history lead inexorably to this conclusion, as every court that has considered
this issue has concluded. This Article also contends that, as a matter of sound public policy, crime victims should have rights
before the formal filing of criminal charges.

This Article proceeds in four parts. Part I frames the issues under discussion by defending the importance of extending rights to
crime victims during criminal investigations. Part I also provides background on victims' rights and gives a concrete illustration
of a case in which the question of pre-charging rights for crime victims has arisen - specifically, the Jeffrey Epstein sex abuse
case before a federal court in Florida. In that case, girls victimized by Epstein have argued that they should have been consulted
about a federal nonprosecution agreement; Department attorneys have responded that because prosecutors never filed charges,
government officials had no formal obligations to inform the girls.

' Scott Campbell, Stephanie Roper, Wendy Preston, Louarna Gillis, and Nila Lynn Crime Victims' Rights Act, Pub. L. No. 108-405, 178
Stat. 2260, 2261-65 (2004) (codified as amended at 18 U.S.C. § 377] (2012) and 42 U.S.C. § 10603(d)-(e) (2006)).

2 The Availability of Crime Victims’ Rights Under the Crime Victims' Rights Act of 2004, 35 Op. O.L.C. J (Dec. 17, 2010) [hereinafter OLC
CVRA Rights Memo], available at http://goo.gl/fHmCL4.

3 Letter from Jon Kyl, U.S. Sen., to Eric H. Holder, Jr., Att'y Gen. (June 6, 2011), reprinted in 157 Cong. Rec. $3608 (daily ed. June 8, 2011)
(statement of Sen. Jon Kyl).

DAVID SCHOEN

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017605
