and 119 House Republicans represent these states. Repealing Obamacare without
replacing it would entail either a significant cut in the funding of the program or
that the state tax payers will have to pick up the bills. Either is likely to hurt
Republican support in these states.

Tax reform: BAT won’t kill it

The proposed border adjustment tax in the Ryan-Brady plan has been attracting a lot of
attention lately. Although we have concerns about some specific aspects of the proposal
(which we will discuss later), the popular view that it could be a deal breaker for the
whole tax reform initiative seems to us difficult to substantiate.

Below are some key facts that are worth noting:

« — It has been thirty years since the US last overhauled its tax code. Most mainstream
economists agree that it needs a serious update.

* Tax reform requires strong political consensus. The Republicans, by gaining control
of the Presidency and retaining their control of both houses of Congress in the
November elections, are in a strong position to push through major tax reform.

* The tax reform proposal from House Republicans has already gone through
extensive consultations and enjoys broad support within the House Republican
Conference.

e One of the key commitments of the Trump campaign is tax cuts and simplification
to boost growth.

« The US today has the highest marginal corporate income tax rate among OECD
countries.

« Another major difference between the US and other major economies is that US
corporations are taxed on their world-wide income as opposed to territorial income.
In 2000, 17 out of the current 34 OECD members had a world-wide system. By
2010, only 7 did.

e | The combination of high corporate income tax rate and a world-wide income tax
system has two unintended consequences. One, US companies currently hold more
than $2trn in capital overseas. Two, an increasing number of US companies are
acquiring smaller foreign companies with the purpose of relocating their
headquarters outside the US (ie, inversion). Between 2003 and 2011, there were
only 7 such transactions. From 2012 and 2015, 27 such transactions were
completed.

« The valued added tax (VAT) system has been gaining popularity over the past
twenty years. Today, more than 160 countries have a VAT. The U.S. is the only
OECD country that doesn’t.

« — The fact that the US does not have a VAT system puts US produced goods at a
disadvantage. VAT is “border adjusted” - meaning that when a good is exported the
producer gets a rebate while imports are subject to VAT.

These facts together make it very apparent that both the case for tax reform and
support for tax reform are very strong. Paul Ryan said on January 26 after the
Republican retreat in Philadelphia that they “aspire” to pass tax reforms by August.

Bankof America <>
Merrill Lynch Cause and Effect | 13 February 2017 5

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014725
