“Well, one thing I’ve always really enjoyed is making

things. Out of whatever. It started with modeling as a kid,
building models. When computers came along, I started
learning programming and realizing the computer was this
great tool for making things, making models, dynamic models,
and behaviors, not just static models. I think when I started
doing games I really wanted to carry that to the next step, to
the player, so that you give the player a tool so that they can
create things. And then you give them some context for that
creation. You know, what is it, what kind of kind of world

does it live in, what’s its purpose? What are you trying to do
with this thing that you’re creating? To really put the player

in the design role. And the actual world is reactive to their
design. So they design something that the little world inside
the computer reacts to. And then they have to revisit the
design and redesign it, or tear it down and build another one,
whatever it is. So I guess what really draws me to interactive
entertainment and the thing that I try to keep focused on is
enabling the creativity of the player. Giving them a pretty large
solution space to solve the problem within the game. So the
game represents this problem landscape. Most games have
small solution landscapes, so there’s one possible solution and
one way to solve it. Other games, the games that tend to be
more creative, have a much larger solution space, so you can
potentially solve this problem in a way that nobody else has. If
you're building a solution, how large that solution space is gives
the player a much stronger feeling of empathy. If they know
that what they’ve done is unique to them, they tend to care for
it a lot more. I think that’s the direction I tend to come from.”

Wright believes that simulations as games
can be used to improve education by teaching
children how to learn. In his own words:

“The problem with our education system is we’ve
taken this kind of narrow, reductionist, Aristotelian approach
to what learning is. It’s not designed for experimenting
with complex systems and navigating your way through
them in an intuitive way, which is what games teach. It’s not

really designed for failure, which is also something games
teach. I mean, I think that failure is a better teacher than
success. Trial and error, reverse-engineering stuff in your
mind—all the ways that kids interact with games—that’s
the kind of thinking schools should be teaching. And I
would argue that as the world becomes more complex, and
as outcomes become less about success or failure, games
are better at preparing you. The education system is going
to realize this sooner or later. It’s starting. Teachers are
entering the system who grew up playing games. They’re
going to want to engage with the kids using games.”

Wright will appear as a character in the video game
Mr. T, where he will team up with Mr. T to fight Nazis.

Wright was given a “Lifetime Achievement
Award” at the Game Developers Choice Awards in 2001.

In 2002, he became the fifth person to be inducted into the
Academy of Interactive Arts and Sciences’ Hall of Fame.
Until 2006, he was the only person to have been honored
this way by both of these industry organizations. In 2007
the British Academy of Film and Television Arts awarded
him a fellowship, the first given to a game designer.

He has been called one of the most important
people in gaming, technology, and entertainment by
publications such as Entertainment Weekly, Time, PC Gamer,
Discover and GameSpy. Wright was also awarded the PC
Magazine Lifetime Achievement Award in January 2005.

In 1980, along with co-driver and race organizer
Rick Doherty, Wright participated in the U.S. Express,

a cross-country race that was the predecessor to The
Cannonball Run. Wright and Doherty drove a specially
outfitted Mazda RX-7 from Brooklyn, New York to Santa
Monica, California in 33:39, winning the illegal race. Wright
only competed once in the race, which continued until 1983.

Since 2003, in his spare time, Wright has collected
leftovers from the Soviet space program, “including a
100-pound hatch from a space shuttle, a seat from a
Soyuz... control panels from the Mir”, and the control

console of the Soyuz 23, as well as dolls, dice, and
fossils. During E3 2004 he passed off an old lapel pin
commemorating the Soviet space program to a reporter.
“T’m uncollecting. I buy collections on eBay, and I
disperse them out to people again. I have to be like an entropic
force to collectors, otherwise all of this stuff will get sorted.”
He once built competitive robots for BattleBots
with his daughter, but no longer does so. As of November
2006, Wright still had remnant bits of machined metal left
over from his BattleBots days strewn about the garage of his
Oakland home. Wright was a former Robot Wars champion
in the Berkeley-based robotics workshop, the Stupid Fun
Club. One of Wright’s bots, designed with the help of Wright’s
daughter Cassidy, “Kitty Puff Puff”, fought against its
opponents by sticking a roll of gauze onto its armature and
circling around them, encapsulating them and denying them
movement. The technique, cocooning, was eventually banned.
Following his work in BattleBots, he has taken
steps into the field of human-robot interactions.
“We build these robots and we take them down to
Berkeley and study the interactions that people have with
the robots,” says Wright. “We built this newer one that has a
rapid-fire pingpong cannon. It will fire about 10 per second.
So we give people this plastic bat and we say, ‘It’s set up to
play baseball. Do you want to play baseball? It’s going to
shoot a little ball and you try to hit it.’ And all of a sudden
it’s like da-da-da-da, and it’s pelting them with balls.”
After building his reputation as one of the most
important game designers in the world, Wright in 2009
left Maxis, the Electronic Arts owned studio he founded.
His first post-E.A. venture was the Stupid Fun Club.
In October 2010, Current TV announced that
Will Wright will produce a new show for the network. The
program, entitled Bar Karma, began airing in February 2011.
In October 2011, Will Wright became
a member of the Board of Directors of Linden
Lab, the creators of Second Life.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017566
