have a problem with people choosing not to have sex... but I'm not sure how I feel about
actively convincing people not to have sex.

In America, I advocate for open, explicit, pleasure-affirming sex education. But that's a
radical stance even in America -- I'm not sure whether it's possible here! At least I'm
spotting a few allies, some in unexpected places: for instance, there's a great high-profile,
outspoken sex-positive educator named Agrippa Khathide in South Africa... who happens
to be a pastor. I'm starting to think there's room to do fascinating work here, creating
culturally appropriate sex-positive education.

Yet abstinence remains the only 100% effective tactic for avoiding HIV. As another
educator told me, I hate abstinence-only education more than anything. Seriously. But...
here, I think it's a necessary ingredient. Is it responsible for me to avoid promoting
abstinence? Even if marketing abstinence means that to some extent, I'll have to tell
people sexual exploration isn't worth doing?

I'm still feeling out my approach, but... what if the most effective way to fight HIV is to
align myself with values antithetical to free sexuality? Does properly doing my job
require me to promote a sex-negative agenda? Surely not. Surely there are ways to
promote sex-positive abstinence -- perhaps a Vibrators for African Women program...?
(This is a joke. Mostly.)

And that's just one facet of the broader question keeping me awake at night! Which is:
given a fatal, incurable sexually transmitted infection; given a population where, in some
groups, up to 40% test positive; given a society in which culturally appropriate messages
emphatically do not include my pro-sex, pro-queer, pro-kink approach to sex education...
what does being a sex-positive educator mean?

Maybe I can harvest clues from my own feelings, past and present, about abstinence:
clues for how to promote it compassionately, effectively and responsibly; clues for
locating my boundaries when I talk about it. And maybe I can harvest down-to-earth
advice from my relationship with Mr. Chastity, too. I can work from toxic masculine
norms he's had such trouble with, and examine how men in southern Africa might
likewise worry about abstinence -- if you think American men have tough definitions of
sexual manliness to contend with, then try living in a place where the big men have
multiple wives and over a dozen children. I also think it'll be hot to be bound against
going too far. Maybe I can learn how abstinence is fun, fun, fun!

Hey, at the very least, it'll give me a taste of what I'm telling everyone else to do.

KOK ok

The original version of this article can be found on the Internet, but please note that I've
done some editing for clarity. Here's the original:

http://carnalnation.com/content/45211/1133/sexual-abcs-africa-part-1-abstinence

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018584
