He befriends Bill Clinton in his new after-office life.

And that’s quite the fatal pairing.

The post-Monica Clinton, now having pardoned the on-the-lam
financier Marc Rich—at this point, before his own rehabilitation, Clinton
really is the world’s ultimate sleaze ball—is suddenly being ferried around
in the jet of... who exactly?

The New York Post is the first to take formal media note of the
Clinton-Epstein connection, hinting at a sex and money bromance. (“I
suppose travel with Clinton changed the arc of my life,” Epstein tells me.
“There were, I knew, lots of obvious reasons not to do it, but having the
ability to spend 100 hours with a former president just doesn’t happen to
many people.”)

The instinctively private Epstein is not just increasingly exposed, but
clearly curious about the nature of exposure.

I met Epstein around this time. Epstein had become a more and more
active backer of advanced scientific research and in 2002 he was taking a
small group of scientists out to the TED conference in Monterey. The TED
organizers invited various other TED participants, including me, to join the
flight. A small group assembled at the private plane terminal, most of us
unfamiliar with our benefactor, and as we headed in the direction of the
discrete private plans we were gently pointed to our ride: Epstein’s 727.

It is some thoroughly updated drawing room set-up, all of us
nervously ensconced in this luxury plane, waiting for our unknown host to
arrive—and soon he does, tanned, relaxed, with wide open smile,
accompanied by three young women.

It would be unlikely, outside of a men’s magazine fantasy of the luxe
life, that you could locate this in reality. Epstein’s attentions, taking time
with each of his passengers, seemed impossible to account for. The quiet of
the plane, engineered into acoustic perfection, seemed spooky. Epstein’s
three companions were witty, poised, helpful as well as powerfully
alluring—as though stewardesses of bygone times.

(One more thing about this trip: Google founders, Larry Page and
Sergey Brin, with their company still in its infancy, came out to see the
plane on the Monterey tarmac and, with a few other Googlers, literally ran
whopping from one end of the plan to the other. Then they described for
Epstein, in what I can not now remember as a put on or entrepreneurial
brainstorm, a brand extension in which they would market a line of Google
bras with the Os as convenient cups. In fact, the name Google, they said,
was invented out of the belief that men would focus on a word with two Os
in it.)

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022759
