Entitlement Spending: Non-Partisan CBO Advises Excluding Social Security /

Medicare Trust Funds’ Balances + Interest Income in Fiscal Analysis

Trust funds can be useful mechanisms for monitoring the balance between
earmarked receipts and a program's spending, but they are basically an
accounting device, and their balances, even if invested in Treasury securities,
provide no resources to the government for meeting future funding commitments.
When those payments come due, the government must finance them in the
same way that it finances other commitments -- through taxes or borrowing from
the public. Thus, assessing the state of the federal government's future finances
requires measuring such commitments independently of their trust fund status or
the balance recorded in the funds.

-- Congressional Budget Office (CBO)

“Measures of the U.S. Government’s Fiscal Position Under Current Law,” 8/04

KP
i USA Inc. | Income Statement Drilldown 77

Entitlement Spending: Funding Patterns of Some

Entitlement Programs Work Better than Others

Have Worked Relatively Well Financially:
Social Security — Has operated at close to break-even - so far - thanks to sufficient payroll
tax income from a relatively large working-age population. In fact, Social Security has
worked so well, that its surplus net income has been used to finance other government
activities such as Medicaid.
Unemployment Insurance — Has operated at close to break-even thanks to accumulated
net incomes during ‘good years’ (though expenses spiked to $123 billion / $160 billion in
2009 / 2010 from $45 billion in 2008 owing to recession).

Have Worked Relatively Poorly Financially:
Medicaid — Has operated at an average annual loss of $160 billion with, in effect, an
average net margin of -100% over past 15 years; the annual dollar loss has risen from $108
billion to $273 billion because of rising healthcare costs and expanded enrollment.

Medicare — Has operated at an average annual loss of $123 billion with, in effect, an
average net margin of -83% over past 15 years; the margin has fallen from -66% to -154%
(or -$64 billion in annual loss to -$272 billion) because of rising healthcare costs +
expanding coverage (added Part D prescription drug benefits through legislation in 2003,
rolled out in 2006).

P Source: White House Office of Management and Budget.
a USA Inc. | Income Statement Drilldown 78

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020880
