my forearm so it prevented me from having to keep going back for more
and was less disruptive to Jeffrey. This all seemed for real to begin with, I
was being educated about the body and splitting Jeffrey’s body with
Ghislane, mimicking her every motion. Starting with his feet, we began
with his heels and arches of his soles. Pushing the blood up his calves in
upward strokes to rejuvenate the body’s blood supply and being careful to
mind his leg hair didn’t pull. | was keeping up with her and enjoying the
education. It was so interesting how the body worked and I couldn’t
believe I was learning all of this for free. Once | got a bit of a groove
following Ghislane, they began asking me all sorts of questions about my
past and it didn’t take long before the conversation led down the darker
experiences of my young life. When they found out that I hadn’t led
much of a normal existence they only probed me with more questions,
which being put on the spot answered honestly. The funny thing was they
didn’t seem appalled at all by my statements, rather entertained if
anything. Jeffrey called me a “naughty-girl” with that wry smile of his,
and half playful and half defensive, ! answered “no I’m not, I’m really a
good girl, just always in the wrong places” he then replied, “It’s O.K, I
like naughty girls” and rolled over onto his front side to expose his
complete nude self. He wasn’t the first man to show me his penis, so I
wasn’t shocked at the appearance of his manhood but I was incredibly
shocked at his complete ease to present himself with an erection. I tried to
ignore it waiting to follow the next directions off of Ghislane, who
surprisingly now stood behind me bare breasted. Before I had a chance to
even think of replying hastily she began to slowly undress me, while
Jeffrey started to stroke his manhood while watching us. She unbuttoned
my blouse and removed my bra, revealing my bosoms. Cupping them in
her hands she moved her lips across my nipples, licking and teasing them
with her tongue making them cold and stiff. Next her hands moved down
to my little white skirt, removing the final piece of my remaining
uniform. She slid my skirt down my legs with ease, for a moment keeping
on my love-heart panties, so they could both take notice of my apparent
youth. They even snickered to each other about “ How cute she still wears
little girl pantie’s” Jeffrey said, and Ghislane joined in his laughter.
Acting as my madam, she instructed me to start by licking his nipples
and after I had sufficiently pleasured both of them, then prompted me to
go down on Jeffery orally while she rubbed her breasts along his body
tantalizingly. She moved behind me again this time to remove my panties
and start fondling the delicate folds between my legs. | was still in shock
from the initial degrading blow. I hadn’t even let the reality sink in, it was
all too much for me to emotionally handle so instead I hid behind my
fears, which I told myself “I wasn’t going to ever be worth anything at all
and this would probably be as good as it gets for me” after all I thought,

25

Cl Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004158

“what have I been trained up for until now”. Nobody ever stopped to ask
if | was comfortable or if I wanted to stop, no, instead, Ghislane only
directed me to conclude the massage session by climbing up on the table
to be fixated on Jeffrey, straddling him so he could penetrate me.

When it was all done and over with, I was taken into the steam room
with just Jeffrey to get further aquatinted, as Ghislane left the room to go
get dressed. He asked me to grab his feet and rub them not saying a word
about what just happened, like it was all normal and accepted. I listened
to him ramble on about the health benefits of a sauna and the history of it,
ignoring the fact of the matter of his pretentiousness degrading my spirit.
I figured I had gone too far already, what would be the point in throwing
in the towel now after I had done exactly what these people wanted.

Whilst we were sweating out our bodies’ toxins, and the steam was
blasting my burning face I listened to his lessons, entertaining his ego, I
let him become my teacher, he seemed to like that. He sounded like a
very clever and intelligent man though. Telling me his story of how he
made himself an empire of billions from being a middle-class professor to
an elite financial advisor for clientele with only billions in their bank
accounts and through his so-called “lessons”, He became my mentor and
I emerged as his pupil, the teacher’s pet.

After the sauna we went to the next glass door beside us where the
shower was. He turned tap outwards and stood underneath the water as 1
stood naked and cold from the temperature difference. Instead of asking
me to join him under the warm stream, like I thought he was going to, he
handed me a bar of soap and asked me to wash his body from top to toe.
It didn’t stop there I had to massage the shampoo and conditioner into his
scalp as well. I was bewildered someone would ask this off of someone
else, wasn’t it belittling enough having to endure the illicit massage from
beforehand but now this. The surprises kept coming that night, as this
was definitely not how I expected my interview to turn out, but that’s
what I had learned in my short time on this earth, life was full of
disappointment.

I let everyone else take the power of authority from myself and use me
in whatever way he or she wanted instead of standing up and giving
myself the respect I deserved, which in turn would’ve helped me get
through life without all of the abuse I ended up copping. Not given the
belief in myself from an early age on I suppose is what affected my sense
of control. Always letting the one’s with power and strength reduce my
inner-self to shreds until I was cut so tiny in size I would be completely
subdued to only their wants and needs left ignoring mine. The men I had
encountered in my short experience with them only repeated their
inflictions convincing me there was no running away from the sick world
1 lived in, not yet understanding it all came down to the choices | had

26

0 Copyright Protected Material

GIUFFREQO4 159

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021157
