ull

Page 6 of 8

Tap B (3230). Table 1 arrays the target Primary and Secondary Drinking Standards, regulated
MCLs, required sampling frequency, and laboratory analytical results for the November 14,
2008-collected water samples.

Appendix A contains the laboratory analytical reports from HSA’s November 14, 2008
sampling event.

COMPARISON TO RECENT CITY MONITORING PROGRAM RESULTS

The City’s most recent annual compliance monitoring event for Primary and Secondary
Drinking Water Standards was performed in June 2008. The sample of ‘finished’ water product
was collected at a sampling point (laboratory tap) at the water treatment plant. Analysis was
performed by the City’s FDOH/NELAC-certified, vendor analytical laboratory, Genapure.
Analysis yielded all target parameter results below method detection limits (MDLs) or less than
respective maximum contaminant limits (MCLs) per Chapter 62-550, F.A.C.

The City’s most recent quarterly routine monitoring event for Nitrate and Nitrite was performed
in August 2008. The sample of ‘finished’ water product was also collected at the water
treatment plant’s laboratory tap. Analysis was again performed by the City’s vendor analytical
laboratory, Genapure. The detected concentration of Nitrate was less than the MCL (10 mg/L).
The concentration of Nitrite was below the MDL (< 0.053 mg/L). Nitrate concentrations from
HSA’s November 2008 sampling event are lower than either result reported from the City’s
annual or latest quarterly sampling from the water treatment plant's laboratory tap. The
difference between these results is not relevant since the reported concentrations from the City
and from HSA’s sampling event are still less than the MCL.

Table 1 includes a comparative array of the City’s monitoring program results to the results
from HSA’s November 2008 distribution system tap sampling for the target Primary and
Secondary Drinking Standards.

APPLICATION OF DISINFECTION CHEMICALS, BYPRODUCTS, AND THE EFFECT ON
TASTE
To eliminate the presence of microbiologics, such as Coliform bacteria, the City applies
chlorine at the treatment plant to disinfect the processed supply water. This treatment process
results in the formation of chemical compounds in the potable water product known as
Disinfection Byproducts (DBPRs). The allowable concentrations of DBPRs in drinking water
are set as Standards in FDEP rule 62-550, F.A.C.

The latest quarterly (3-month) reporting period for the City’s weekly routine monitoring of
DBPRs (Total Trihalomethanes, TTHMs) ended September 2008. The samples of water

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016686
