Business Expansion Portfolio and Prospectus
Twin City Care of The Virgin Islands
5

Ambulance Division and Definition

TCMIH provides Advanced Life Support services (ALS) 24/7, 365 days a year to our hospitals,
nursing facilities and various other health care providers in the Virgin Islands. Our entire fleet will
stand ready to provide consistent, high quality, patient centered care. Not only are we here for the
day-to-day needs of our community, but during times of need, for mutual aid support to the Virgin
Islands Department of Health EMS and the Virgin Islands Territorial Emergency Management
Agency.

All Paramedics, EMTs, Nurses and Emergency Medical Responders will be working under the
guidance of our Medical Director Dr. Christopher C. Hill DO, (Board License Emergency
Physician) in accordance with National Highway and Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA).

As the premier interfacility non-emergency ambulance provider for the community, our role is as
diverse as the patients we serve. From providing critical care transports to monitoring the vital
signs and offering support for a Hospice patient, it is all about the connections we make, each day,
and each transport.

Advanced Life Support (ALS)

ALS care is provided by Advance EMTs, and Paramedics who are licensed in pre-hospital care,
having qualifications and equipment to provide BLS capabilities as well as advanced airway
management, cardiac monitoring and defibrillation, [V administration, administering of life saving
medications and capable of handling severe medical emergencies.

Specialty Care Transports (ALS-2)

Patients who require specialized monitoring of IV medication drips and ventilators. Care from Air
Ambulance services (Medivac).

Mental Health Transport and Crisis Hotline

Specialized medical transport team, working with agencies such as law enforcement, mental
healthcare providers, hospital emergency rooms and nursing facilities to ensure the safe, efficient
and dignified transport of the mental health patient. In addition to the transport component, Twin
City will be a vested partner in the progress and wellbeing of our mental health community at
large. Attending and participating in many community forums such as local planning meetings,
any mental health taskforce meetings TCMIH will be committed to assisting with the best practices
for the providers for the patients that we serve.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029480
