JOSHUA WURMAN

I grew up in Pennsylvania, bereft of any really meaningful
opportunities to experience severe weather, hurricanes, even
real deep snow. As a youth, I tried to impress friends and
girls with my home weather station and insect collection.
These efforts, among other factors, kept me well out of the
running for homecoming king. Naturally, I moved on toa
party school, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)
to search for a better social life. But hating schoolwork, I
rushed through it, earning my MS at only 21. Then after some
aimless additional years in school I dropped out for three
years, working for the Air Force on nuclear winter computer
simulations and other cheery subjects. Returning to MIT,
Iearned my Doctorate and moved to Colorado to work at

the National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR) on
bistatic radar networks, a new type of weather radar system
that I had invented. However, after seeing real High Plains
thunderstorms close up, and tornadoes, I got distracted

and conceived of building a network of big, fast scanning
radars that could drive right up to tornadoes and fires, inside
hurricanes, and into other nice weather. The DOW program
was born, and I moved down to Oklahoma to be a professor
for a few years, chase tornadoes and hurricanes, file patents,
teach and write papers. In the middle of this, I traveled to Asia

on a research project and met my wife operating a weather
radar on an island off the coast of Hong Kong and conned
her into believing that Oklahoma was just like Hong Kong.
After receiving tenure and the implied lifetime sentence

at the university, I did the sensible thing: I quit and moved
back to Boulder and founded my own non-profit research
institution, the Center for Severe Weather Research (CSWR).
My wife and Irun CSWR, manage the DOWs as National
Science Foundation (NSF) Facilities, and conduct research
programs such as the VORTEX2 study and hurricane studies.
We have four young children who, so far, show no unhealthy
obsessive interests in tornadoes, hurricanes or radars. I’ve just
finished the VORTEX2 tornado study (http://vortex2.org),
which is the largest tornado research mission ever, funded
mostly by NSF, employing about 120 scientists and crew in
50 vehicles. We had 11 radars, 4 balloon trucks, UAVs, 40
deployable instruments, 13 mobile mesonets, photogrammetry
and microphysics teams, damage survey teams, basically
more of anything that used to study tornadoes scientifically.
Just imagine the lines for fuel and bathrooms in small-

town gas stations. During WWW, I'll be keeping a nervous
eye out for any hurricanes threatening to make landfall.

If a hurricane looms, I'll be leading my team into the eye.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017567
