176 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

also said that he was “100 percent” certain that no foreign intelli-
gence service had had access to them at any point during his journey
from Honolulu to Moscow. When I later asked Kucherena in Mos-
cow why Snowden changed his story in direct contradiction of what
Kucherena had stated, he said, “Wizner.”

He was referring to Ben Wizner, Snowden’s ACLU lawyer in
Washington, D.C. Wizner had joined the ACLU in August 2001
after graduating from NYU Law School and clerking for a federal
judge. At the ACLU, he became an effective foe of NSA surveillance.
“IT had spent ten years before this [Snowden leak] trying to bring
lawsuits against the intelligence community,” he explained in an
interview with Forbes in 2014. Prior to the Snowden leak, he had
frequently been consulted by Poitras on government surveillance
issues (and appeared in Poitras’s 2010 documentary, The Oath). He
had also been engaged in a lawsuit aimed at exposing the NSA’s sub-
poenas for Verizon records.

He had first learned about Snowden from Poitras in January
2013 while Snowden was still working for Dell at the NSA base in

© Hawaii. At that time, Poitras did not know Snowden’s real name, but ©
she informed Wizner that she was in touch with a person identify-
ing himself as a senior officer in U.S. intelligence. (Poitras did not
know at that time that her source, Snowden, was lying to her about
his position.) Wizner also was shown e-mails by Poitras in which
Snowden said he had information about the government’s secret
domestic surveillance program. Wizner, according to Poitras, advised
her to stay in touch with this source.

On July 13, 2013, after Snowden asked for asylum in Russia,
Kucherena arranged an encrypted chat between Snowden and Wiz-
ner. According to Wizner, Snowden asked him at the outset, “Do you
have standing now?” It was a question that suggested that Snowden
was aware that the ACLU needed to gain standing in federal court to
challenge the government's alleged domestic surveillance. Up until
now, it was unsuccessful because it had no way to show it was a vic-
tim of surveillance. The FISA order to Verizon, which Snowden had
taken had provided that standing to Wizner and the ACLU.

Aside from the opportunity Snowden offered the ACLU, Wiz-
ner no doubt believed in the salutary benefit of Snowden’s revela-

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 176 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019664
