confiscatory taxation; and (v) the possible imposition of non-U.S. taxes on income and gains
recognized with respect to such securities. While the General Partner will take these factors into
consideration in making investment decisions for the Fund and intends to manage the Fund ina
manner to minimize exposure to the foregoing risks, there can be no assurance that the General
Partner will be able to evaluate the risks accurately or that adverse developments with respect
to such risks will not adversely affect the value or realization of investments that are held by the
Fund in certain countries.

Reserves

As is customary in the industry, the General Partner may establish reserves for follow-on
investments by the Fund in portfolio companies, operating expenses (including the
Management Fee), Fund liabilities, and other matters. Estimating the appropriate amount of
such reserves is difficult, especially for follow-on investment opportunities, which are directly
tied to the success and capital needs of portfolio companies. Inadequate or excessive reserves
could impair the investment returns to the Limited Partners. If reserves are inadequate, the
Fund may be unable to take advantage of attractive follow-on or other investment opportunities
or to protect its existing investments from dilutive or other punitive terms associated with “pay-
to-play” or similar provisions. If reserves are excessive, the Fund may decline attractive
investment opportunities or hold unnecessary amounts of capital in money market or similar
low-yield accounts.

Diverse Investors

The Limited Partners may have conflicting investment, tax, and other interests with respect to
their investments in the Fund. The conflicting interests of individual Limited Partners may
relate to or arise from, among other things, the nature of investments made by the Fund, the
structuring or the acquisition of investments and the timing of disposition of investments. As a
consequence, conflicts of interest may arise in connection with decisions made by the Fund
Managers, including with respect to the nature or structuring of investments that may be more
beneficial for some Limited Partners than for others, particularly with respect to investors’
individual tax situations. In selecting and structuring investments appropriate for the Fund, the
General Partner will consider the investment and tax objective of the Fund and the Partners as a
whole, not the investment, tax or other objective of any Limited Partner individually.

Failure of Limited Partners to Fulfill Their Commitment Obligations

The Fund’s investments in portfolio companies will require capital calls on Limited Partners
over an extended period of time. Failure by a Limited Partner to meet a capital call could result
in the failure of the Fund to make desired investments, which could have adverse consequences
for the Fund and thus all of the Limited Partners. The failure by the Fund to receive a
significant portion of capital contributions due from Limited Partners in respect of their
Commitments could materially impair the Fund’s ability to realize its financial objectives. In
the event that a Limited Partner defaults, such Limited Partner may be subject to various
penalties, including forfeiture of all or a portion of its interest in the Fund, as provided in the
Partnership Agreement.

Risk of Dilution
Limited Partners subscribing for interests at subsequent closings will participate in existing

investments of the Fund, diluting the interest of existing Limited Partners therein. Although
such Limited Partners will contribute their pro rata share of prior capital contributions

66 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024077
