“Having some ambition that transcends just making money is a critical thing
for a company,” he said. “But there is some point where it gets crazy and self-
delusional.” He added that the companies “are probably in some trouble — maybe
it’s a little, maybe it’s a lot.” The prospect of government regulation looms.

In 2015 and 2016, Mr. Thiel gave $300,000 to Josh Hawley, who was
campaigning to become Missouri’s attorney general. Mr. Hawley won, and in
November he opened an antitrust investigation of Google. A spokeswoman for Mr.
Hawley, a Republican who is now challenging the state’s Democratic senator,
Claire McCaskill, said there was “no connection” between Mr. Thiel’s donation and
the investigation. Google declined to comment.

The news last month that Mr. Thiel is moving from San Francisco to Los
Angeles reflects a shift that is as much mental as literal. Getting out of the tech
bubble, he figures, will give him more clarity about his investments.

“Network effects are very positive things, but there’s a tipping point where
they fall over into the madness of crowds,” he said.

Another of Mr. Thiel’s contentious ideas was destroying Gawker, the online
publisher. He secretly financed the privacy lawsuit that Hulk Hogan, the former
pro wrestler, filed against the media company, which Mr. Hogan won. That led to
Gawker’s bankruptcy in 2016.

A news operation that specialized in deflating the arrogance of Silicon Valley
should have been to Mr. Thiel’s liking. But he argues that his philosophy is

consistent here.

“Gawker was trying to cut people down to size for not conforming,” he said.
“The ability to speak and not have every word you say get distorted, to have wrong
ideas and then be able to correct them — these notions were powerfully undercut
by Gawker.”

Mr. Thiel is still pursuing the remnants of Gawker in court, which has
prompted accusations that he wants to remove all of its content from the internet
as a final victory.

He denied this. “Terry Bollea, a.k.a. Hulk Hogan, is still owed some money
HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029456
