4.2.12
WC: 191694

I responded, “If I wanted any of Mia’s former husbands to put the fear of God in Woody Allen,
I'd pick Sinatra over you Mr. Previn.” He laughed in agreement.

I have maintained a good relationship with Mia. Woody Allen eventually married Soon-Yi, and
they have adopted children. Their marriage seems to be working.

Both the Clinton-Lewinsky impeachment and Woody Allen-Mia Farrow cases involved sordid
accusation of improper sexual conduct by famous and powerful men. These kinds of accusation
directed against these kinds of men are grist for the media mill. Every legal and political move is
covered in detail. Everyone has an opinion. Litigating in such an environment is perilous. Every
mistake is magnified. You don’t learn how to manage such cases in law school. There are no
tule books. Experience is the only teacher.

After years of experience in dozens of high profile cases, I now try to teach my students how to
avoid, really minimize, inevitable mistakes. Here are some of my everchanging rules:

1. Never take a case just because the client is a celebrity or because the case is “high profile.”
Make sure the issues in the case are within your area of expertise.

2. Ifyou do take the case, don’t “hang out,” “chill” or socialize with the celebrity. (It is ok
to get an autograph for your kid, but that’s all.) Never assume the celebrity, or high
profile client, is your friend. You have an entirely professional relationship. Charge your
usual fee. No discount, no gauging.

3. Never say anything about the client or the case to anyone unless you are prepared to see it
in The New York Times or The National Enquirer.

4. Every time you meet the client, be prepared to be fired for telling him or her what they
don’t want to hear. Famous people often get bad medical treatment and bad legal service
for the same reason: the doctor and lawyer don’t want to offend or upset them and care
more about keeping the patient or client than telling them the painful truth.

5. Don’t pretend your celebrity or high profile case is just like an ordinary case. The media
is watching your every move, and every move should take into account the anticipated
media coverage. This doesn’t mean you should make or refrain from making the right
move because of the anticipated coverage, but rather you should consider (and perhaps
reject, but at least consider) what is the right move.

6. Remember that judges, jurors and prosecutors, their family members, their friends and

colleagues all watch television and read the papers. The media environment may have an
impact on their decisions.

7. Remember that high profile and celebrity cases tend to distort the legal system, because
the law treats famous people differently. Sometimes better. Sometimes worse. Never the
same. It has been said that hard cases make bad law. So, often, do high profile cases.

288

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017375
