KUE Management

At the conclusion of this offering, the KUE management team will consist of the following
individuals.

Principals

Michael Mifken, Co-Founder and Chairman

Mr. Milken is Co-Founder and Chairman of KUE. One cf America’s leading philanthropists, he was called
“The Man Who Changed Medicine’ in a Fortune magazine cover story that chronicled his three decades
of efforts to accelerate medical solutions. He Co-Founded the Milken Family Foundation in 1982 to
advance programs in medical research and education. In 1993, Mr. Milken expanded his medical
philanthropy by launching the Prosiate Cancer Foundation, the world's largest private source of funding
for research on that disease. A decade later, he concluded that progress wasn’t coming fast enough, so
he founded FasterCures, which seeks to shorten the path to breakthroughs for all deadly diseases. Mr.
Milken also chairs the Milken Institute, a think tank who conferences feature opinion leaders and
government officials from around the world. Among the many awards Mr. Milken has received is the
Marcus Garvey Award for major contributions to the formation and inspiration of African-American
businesses. He earned his bachelor’s degree at the University of California at Berkeley, and his MBA
from the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School,

Steven Green, Vice Chairman

Steven Green, who served as the 12th U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of Singapore from 1997 to 2001,
is Vice Chairman of KUE and Chairman and CEO of Greenstreet Real Estate Partners, a professional
real estate firm. Ambassador Green previously served as Chairman and CEO of Samsonite Corporation,
which was the major operating subsidiary of Astrum International Corporation. As Chairman of Astrum,
Ambassador Green spearheaded the operating company’s expansion into emerging markets in Eastern
Europe, the CIS, Asia and the Middle East. In 1992, he opened the first American retailing center on Red
Square. In 1995, President Clinton appointed him to the President's Export Council, where he served on
the Executive Committee and chaired the Strategic Communications Committee. Ambassador Green is
also Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of K1 Ventures Limited, a publicly traded investment company
in Singapore, and is a board member of Greensireet Realty, a company that manages a large portfolio of
education-related real estate. [In addition to his corporate responsibilities, he has been active in U.S. civic
affairs, serving as a contributing trustee and director for a number of community and national
organizations, including the University of Miami, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and serves as Honorary
Consul General of Singapore in Miami, Florida. The Green Family Foundation endows special projects in
community and national service.

Lowell Milken, Co-Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer

Lowell Milken is President and Chief Executive Officer of KUE. He is also Chairman of London-based
Heron International, a worldwide leader in property development and investment; Chairman of KU
Education, Inc., a leading company in ECE and K-9 educational programs and services; and Chairman
and Co-Founder of the Milken Family Foundation. Under his leadership, the Milken Family Foundation
has become one of the most innovative private foundations in the U.S., developing groundbreaking
programs in K-12 education. Mr. Milken created the Foundation’s National Educator Award program,
which today is the largest teacher-recognition program in the U.S. Dubbed the “Oscars of Teaching” by
Teacher Magazine, it has awarded more than $50 million to honor more than 2,100 K-12 teachers and
principals. Mr. Milken also launched the Teacher Advancement Program (TAP) in 1999 as a
comprehensive school reform to attract, develop, motivate and retain high quality teachers for America’s
schools. Today TAP schools are operating in 12 states impacting thousands of teachers and ten of
thousands of students. Mr. Milken serves as Chairman of the Institute for Excellence in Teaching which
among its many activities is the operation of the Teacher Advancement Program. Widely known as an
educational pioneer and innovator, Mr. Milken has been recognized by numerous awards from such

148

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024581
