transcendence and belonging can
simultaneously lead to greater fitness of
the individual and increased cohesion
and sustainability of the social
organization—another indication of
positive selection associated with the
social brain.

The notion of resonance with
another appears repeatedly through the
book. Our connections to others derive
in part from being able to see what they
see, to hear what they hear, to know
what they know, to feel what they feel.
Or we have to be able to believe not only
that this is possible, but that it happens.
The social brain, in which the same
regions are activated by our own
experience of pain and by our perception
of others in pain, makes both aspects
possible. There is a close connection
between being able to “feel for” another
(empathy) and to “see into” another
mind (anthropomorphism).

Language has the potential to
affect people and groups in part because
it is tied to meaning. Language is the
medium through which we convey,
preserve, and transmit meaning from one
individual to another, and from one
social generation to another. Language
is powerful because it can activate
belief, which in turn can activate
physical responses. Words can bind;
words can terrify; and words can cause
physical pain and death. The power of
words comes from the meanings they
entail about our connections to one
another.

Paradox

Our investigation of invisible
forces involving the social brain has led
us repeatedly to factors that
fundamentally conflict. An important
invisible force is the respect we pay to
the boundary between self and other.

151

Page

Our relationship to it comes into play in
conceptualizing loneliness,
anthropomorphism, spirituality, group
behavior, empathy, and inclusive fitness.
When we speak of loneliness, this
boundary seems to be an impenetrable
barrier. When we speak of empathy or
anthropomorphism, however, the self-
other boundary is defined by the
similarity and congruence of individuals
to one another, providing a transparent
window through which we perceive and
interact with others (who must be like
us). And when we speak of group
synchrony, the boundary vanishes
completely: self and other are one.

Successful engagement with
others requires work. It is the work of
attending to something, and it is work
that often is needed to resolve competing
forces. Thinking about other minds is a
demanding task and requires attentional
effort. It is this effort that allows us to
manipulate the transparency of the self-
other boundary by what we put in
through learning, attending, seeking, and
projecting. In effect, we can tune the
degree of resonance we have with
members of different groups. Similarly,
consistent attentional effort is also
required for the physician to attend to
the mindfulness of patients, for the
Vineyard church member to experience
God as present in one’s life, and for
another to find connection to an
omnipresent yet invisible God who
works through the very workings of the
world.

What it means to feel a
connection to a higher being is a theme
that several essays explore. As is
evident in these essays, the Network has
considered very different, even
divergent, pictures of what such
connection might entail. These apparent
inconsistencies that can be found in

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021397
