“... and then it became really sunny and I walked off and it poured right after I left. It
poured but we have something amazing because—honestly it looked like a million,
million and a half people, whatever it was it was, but it went all the way back to the
Washington Monument and by mistake I get this network and it showed an empty field
and it said we drew two hundred fifty thousand people. Now that’s not bad, but it’s a lie...
. And we had another one yesterday which was interesting. In the Oval Office there’s a
beautiful statue of Dr. Martin Luther King and I also happen to like Churchill—Winston
Churchill—I think most of us like Churchill, doesn’t come from our country but had a lot
to do with it, helped us, real ally, and as you know the Churchill statue was taken out... .
So a reporter for Zime magazine and I have been on the cover like fourteen or fifteen
times. I think I have the all-time record in the history of 7Zime magazine. Like if Tom
Brady is on the cover it’s one time because he won the Super Bowl or something. I’ve
been on fifteen times this year. I don’t think, Mike, that’s a record that can ever be broken,
do you agree with that ... . What do you think?”

“No,” said Pompeo in a stricken voice.

“But I will say that they said it was very interesting that ‘Donald Trump took down the
bust, the statue, of Dr. Martin Luther King,’ and it was right there, there was a cameraman
that was in front of it. So Zeke ... Zeke ... from Time magazine ... writes a story that I
took it down. I would never do that. I have great respect for Dr. Martin Luther King. But
this is how dishonest the media is. Now big story, but the retraction was like this”—he
indicated ever-so-small with his fingers. “Is it a line or do they even bother putting it in? I
only like to say I love honesty, I like honest reporting. I will tell you, final time, although I
will say it when you let in your thousands of other people who have been trying to come
in, because I am coming back, we may have to get you a larger room, we may have to get
you a larger room and maybe, maybe, it will be built by somebody that knows how to
build and we won’t have columns. You understand that? We get rid of the columns, but
you know I just wanted to say that I love you, I respect you, there’s nobody I respect more.
You do a fantastic job and we’re going to start winning again, and you’re going to be
leading the charge, so thank you all very much.”

In a continuing sign of Trump’s Rashomon effect—his speeches inspiring joy or horror
—witnesses would describe his reception at the CIA as either a Beatles-like emotional
outpouring or a response so confounded and appalled that, in the seconds after he finished,
you could hear a pin drop.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019922
