4.2.12
WC: 191694

Not only has the verdict of history condemned the words of the Sedition Act, it has also
condemned the selective manner in which it was enforced against certain journalists and
newspapers but not others. If there are to be any restrictions of freedom in the press, they should
be applied uniformly. Ifthe publication of classified material is to be prosecuted, then all who
publish it should be prosecuted, not only the marginal, the powerless, the “irresponsible” and the
unpatriotic --- in the eyes of the government . If all are prosecuted, there is the possibility of the
self-correcting mechanism of democracy operating to change the law, by narrowing it to
criminalize only those categories of currently classified information that truly endanger national
security. If untrammeled prosecutorial discretion is permitted, then the law can be kept as broad
and overinclusive as it currently is, without fear that the New York Times will be caught in its
web. But if only the weak and the unpopular are selected for prosecution, the pressures for
change will diminish.

Moreover, selective prosecution of only certain journalists who violate broad statutes will
encourage some in the media to curry favor with the government, and the government to curry
favor with certain media. This is an unhealthy and dangerous relationship in a democracy in
which the press is supposed to check the government and be independent of its control.

The exercise of some discretion is necessary under the statutory scheme that currently
criminalizes the publication of classified material. If all journalists who publish any classified
material were to be prosecuted, there would be few left. The New York Times and its publishers,
editors, and national security reporters would be convicted felons, since the current statutes are
written in the broadest of terms that invite the exercise of discretion, which has always been
employed to immunize the mainstream media.

In a definitive history of this problem, the author, Gabriel Schoenfeld, argues that an appropriate
balance must be struck and that neither the press nor Congress can be relied on to strike that
balance. Surprisingly, and wrongly in my view, he places his greatest reliance on the exercise of
prosecutorial discretion and in the common sense of juries. History has not vindicated this trust,
especially in times of national turmoil and fear. For me, a better democratic answer is for the
courts to demand that legislatures enact clear, precise and extremely limited prohibitions on the
real-time disclosure of only the most necessary of secrets. These statutes must neither be
overinclusive or underinclusive (as are current laws). They should be capable of uniform and
universal application that constrain the power of the government to pick and choose. Precise
codification is not a perfect solution to an intractable dilemma, but it would be a significant
improvement over the unacceptable current situation.

In vibrant democracies there will always be tensions between the government’s need to keep
secrets and the news media’s need to reveal them. There will never be a perfect solution or an

agreed-upon balance. This is as it should be. Constant tension between the government and the
press is an essential requisite of our system of checks and balances.

128

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017215
