the ‘selfie’ photo. This photo was not made available to the Australian National University, although it was
requested
in the course of the investigation.”

(And for the record I often put my hand up in front of a camera if there is a flash, as I specifically request selfies
not to include flashes, so that I don’t end up with a series bright spots in front of my eyes for the next half hour)

What makes this particular type of allegation so repugnant is that I get asked for literally thousands of selfies,
and when people come up to me they are vulnerable, often shaking, and sometimes overly aggressive. I am
particularly proud of the way I attempt to make all people feel at ease, and respected, rather than humiliated.
Thus, this false claim strikes at the heart of what I am about, which is to acknowledge fans in a way that makes
them feel appreciated. As I understand you had a reporter watching me sign books and take selfies at the CFI
conference in Las Vegas this year, that behavior is what they will have witnessed. Moreover, I am proud of the
interactions I have had at both Case and ASU, with students, colleagues and staff. I have had numerous female
graduate students, postdocs, employees, and colleagues, and as ASU attested to you, none of these have ever
complained of harassment. Quite the contrary in fact, as I have worked hard to support them, mentor them, and
treat them with respect. I treat others as responsible adults, and I expect to be treated equally.

Lawrence M. Krauss

Director, The Origins Project at ASU

Co-Director, Cosmology Initiative

Foundation Professor

School of Earth & Space Exploration and Physics Department

Arizona State University, P.O. Box 871404, Tempe, AZ 85287-1404
Origins Office

origins.asu.edu | twitter.com/Ikrauss1 | krauss.faculty.asu.edu

= - -
RSU Origins
PREOGIECT

ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY

Begin forwarded message:

From: Peter Aldhous J

Subject: URGENT: BuzzFeed News inquiry re allegations of sexual harassment
Date: December 10, 2017 at 5:12:27 PM PST
To:

Dr. Krauss:

As you know, I’m a reporter for BuzzFeed News who has been investigating sexual misconduct allegations
against you. As we've already discussed by email, I’d very much like to interview you about these allegations in
detail.

In particular, you stated in an email sent on Nov 13 that two universities had investigated an incident (# 6
below). You claimed that “both Universities independently concluded that the report was unsubstantiated and
fabricated with malicious intent.” We are not aware that either university concluded fabrication or malicious
intent, so if you have evidence to support this assertion, we would like to see and discuss it.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031241
