did massage on the side, I stated I was only reading the book and had not
yet began to study but one day J would love to practice massage therapy.

She introduced herself as Ghislane Maxwell. I would later find out that
she was the daughter of the late prominent businessman and disgraced
newspaper tycoon, Robert Maxwell. I told her my name is Jenna pointing
to my nametag on my shirt and offered her a cold or hot beverage, as
those were my instructed duties at work. She accepted a tea and went on
to chat a bit about this rich guy that she worked for and she knew off-
hand that he was looking for a massage therapist. Just doing me a good
deed out of her kindness of her heart, 1’m sure, she offered to introduce
me to him. I declined her first proposition, thinking out loud, told her I
didn’t know the body well enough to even attempt an interview. She
didn’t seem worried at all by my fear of incompetence saying that if he
liked me enough he would get me the best training in the industry.
Ghislane thought I had a cheery persona and fit the quota for what he was
looking for and as she put it an enthusiastic learner that she said she
gathered from the sticky notes popping out of the various sections in my
book. | accepted her phone number and the house address and told her I
will call her if | am able to come over after work. I rushed over to the
tennis courts where my dad was working and told him of the news. We
both thought this could be a wonderful opportunity to get my
accreditation in massage therapy. Seeing that it was a lady in her late
thirties who came off as more of a nurturer rather than a procurer, neither
of us saw any reason to be hesitant.

Chapter 4

At around Five p.m. my dad drove me down to the bottom of “El Brillo
Way.” on the Palm Beach intercostal. We pulled into a short driveway
beckoning a large pink mansion with heavy wooden doors. I was so
excited about this chance and asked my dad to wish me luck. He gave me
a big squeeze and wished me the best. He walked me to the front door
and I rung the door chime. Moments later we were greeted by an older
gentleman dressed in a casual butler uniform. I told him 1 was here to
meet Ms. Maxwell for a massage trial and he opened the doors for my
father and I telling us to wait in the entry as Ms. Maxwell would be on
her way any second, and she was. Down the stairs she walked with a
warm smile, her short black hair seeming very proper and elegant, for
now. She shook my fathers hand and thanked him for bringing me and
kissed us both on the cheeks. They spoke briefly about whom she worked
for and about Mar-a-Lago where we worked. She was in hurry, you could
tell to end the conversation and say good-bye to my dad, which she did so

23

(1 Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004156

ever pleasantly. She said the boss was upstairs and waiting my arrival, so
with that I said bye to my dad and began to follow Ghislane up the stairs.
I was so nervous, but I didn’t show it. I kept my reserve and demeanor
cool as ice, trying show maturity for the open position. We continued on
to the massage room, passing by a grand crystal chandelier, and a couple
lengthy wooden hall tables displaying a multitude of photos displaying
young girls and beautiful women, trying not to gawk at them I didn’t
even notice that some of those girls were only wearing their smile.

Ghislane asked me how my day at work was and I told her it was easy
peasy as always just trying to make simple conversation. There was a
fork at the end of the staircase and she led me to the right hand side. The
lights were dimmed in the bedroom but I could still see the King Size bed
in the middle of room, we did a U-turn around the bed, which led us into
a massage room. Dripping in luxury I could’ve definitely compared it to
the renowned Mar-a-Lago’s spa’s, it had marble walls and a glass
enclosed shower and self-automated steam room at the very end of the
Burberry carpeted room. There was a large mirror over a basin to the
right of the room with an array of oils, ointments, soaps, and lotions anda
small closed door, which I assumed must be a closet. The only thing that
struck awkward about this room was the naked man laying face down
atop of the turquoise massage table in the center of it. “I had to be
prepared for this,” I told myself. Massage was something | had never
done before so I quickly brushed away my thoughts of possible schemes,
wanting to believe whole-hearted this was going to be legit. Ghislane
introduced us to each other and | proceeded to make his acquaintance.

Looking up at from his downwards position, he looked me over and
gave a smile to Ghislane, an obvious notion of his approval. He was
Jeffrey Epstein as she pronounced for him, as if | supposed to recognize
his name or something. He affirmed, “It was his pleasure” and replied to
just call him Jeffrey, “No need for formalities” he answered, cleverly
putting me at ease. This man did not look like someone to beware of.
Both him and Ghislane appeared to be very nice people and conscious of
their health as their need for massages and spa visits, no alarm bells went
off, yet. I was prepped by Ghislane to “treat this as a lesson from her and
follow her exact lead, if] did good tonight then maybe I would become
Jeffrey’s Travelling Masseuse, seeing the world and getting paid well for
it’. I was very hopeful, a job like this could really make my dreams come
true.

I followed suit and washed my hands with warm water so the coldness
would not shock Jeffery’s naked body, then lathered them in rich bady
butter. Ghislane told me to always keep one hand on Jeffrey, even when
getting more lotion, so it didn’t make him lose concentration on being
relaxed. She gave me a tip and told me to keep a blob of lotion high up on

24

O Copyright Protected Material

GIUFFRLO04 157

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021156
