in 2H19, we view final investment decision (FID) — and an exploration program that
yields one well result every 6-8 weeks as a catalyst to rerate Hess over time.

Liza area moving towards 2bn boe

Operator Exxon recently confirmed the latest exploration test in Guyana ‘Snoek’ as the
latest discovery in the Liza development area, with ~82ft of net pay and in line with pre
drill expectations we are led to believe is in the 200-300mm boe range. Recall from our
discussions with management, Snoek was characterized as a smaller but distinct target,
updip of Liza, but lower risk.

The well was drilled in 26 days to a depth of ~17,000ft in 5,128ft of water 5 miles south
west of Liza #1, as shown in the graphic below; the Stena Carron drill ship has now
relocated to the next well test, the ‘Liza #4’ appraisal, where we anticipate results by
end April but with the possibility of a drill stem test in a success case that may push the
well result into mid-May.

Exhibit 5: Liza targeting Exhibit 6: Exxon operated blocks in Guyana

= Multi-FPSO, ExxonMobil-operated development a

- Phase 1: 100 - 120 KBD; attractive return at $40/B flat real

- FEED under way; Phase 1 AID expected in 2017

Future

potential Duscomocs

Block Size

tn
150

Liza Phase 2

Discoveries

Potential 2017-2019
opportunities

| XOM interest

Liza Phase 1

Source: Exxonmobil Source: Exxonmobil

Critically, ‘Snoek’ reinforces management's prior characterization of the Stabroek block
as moving towards a 'DHI play’ meaning the risk profile of incremental exploration
improves - a critical factor for the next well in queue, the Payara #2 appraisal that will
also target a deeper test (Pacuma)} scaled with a pre drill target of ~1bn boe. The next
prospect, Liza lookalike named ‘Turbot will likely be spud around mid-year.

From our discussions with Hess and the operator we summarize our understanding as
follows:

¢ Operator XOM had previously framed the discovered potential in the Liza /
Payara at 1.5bn — 2.0bn boe, subject to completion of two planned additional
appraisal wells. Quoting EVP Mark Albers and CEO Darren Woods

‘The success at Payara combined with the additional oil pay discovered with Liza-3
brings the total discovered resource on the block to somewhere between 1.4 billion oil
equivalent barrels and 2 billion oil equivalent barrels.’

“to clarify, what we have found - not potential upside, but what we have found is 1.4
billion to 2 billion BOE. The upside is mutti-billion barrel unrisked potential’

Bankof America <>
Merrill Lynch Hess Corp. | 11 April 2017 5

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014877
