or debarment from contracting with the federal government,
cross-debarment by multilateral development banks, and the

suspension or revocation of certain export privileges.

Debarment

Under federal guidelines governing procurement,
an individual or company that violates the FCPA or other
criminal statutes may be barred from doing business with the
federal government. The Federal Acquisition Regulations
(FAR) provide for the potential suspension or debarment
of companies that contract with the government upon
conviction of or civil judgment for bribery, falsification or
destruction of records, the making of false statements, or
“[cJommission of any other offense indicating a lack of busi-
ness integrity or business honesty that seriously and directly
affects the present responsibility of a Government contrac-
tor or subcontractor.” These measures are not intended
to be punitive and may be imposed only if “in the public’s
interest for the Government's protection.”*“

Under the FAR, a decision to debar or suspend is dis-
cretionary. The decision is not made by DOJ prosecutors or
SEC staff, but instead by independent debarment authorities
within each agency, such as the Department of Defense or
the General Services Administration, which analyze a num-
ber of factors to determine whether a company should be sus-
pended, debarred, or otherwise determined to be ineligible
for government contracting, Such factors include whether
the contractor has effective internal control systems in place,
self-reported the misconduct in a timely manner, and has
taken remedial measures.*® If a cause for debarment exists,
the contractor has the burden of demonstrating to the satis-
faction of the debarring official that it is presently responsible
and that debarment is not necessary.** Each federal depart-
ment and agency determines the eligibility of contractors
with whom it deals. However, if one department or agency
debars or suspends a contractor, the debarment or suspension
applies to the entire executive branch of the federal govern-
ment, unless a department or agency shows compelling rea-
sons not to debar or suspend the contractor?”

Although guilty pleas, DPAs, and NPAs do not result

in automatic debarment from U.S. government contracting,

FCPA Penalties,
Sanctions, and
Remedies

committing a federal crime and the factual admissions
underlying a resolution are factors that the independent
debarment authorities may consider. Moreover, indictment
alone can lead to suspension of the right to do business
with the government.* The US. Attorney’s Manual also
provides that when a company engages in fraud against the
government, a prosecutor may not negotiate away an agen-
cy’s right to debar or delist the company as part of the plea

bargaining process.

In making debarment determina-
tions, contracting agencies, including at the state and local
level, may consult with DOJ in advance of awarding a con-
tract. Depending on the circumstances, DOJ may provide
information to contracting authorities in the context of
the corporate settlement about the facts and circumstances
underlying the criminal conduct and remediation measures
undertaken by the company, if any. This information shar-
ing is not advocacy, and the ultimate debarment decisions
are squarely within the purview of the independent debar-
ment authorities. In some situations, the contracting agency
may impose its own oversight requirements in order for a
company that has admitted to violations of federal law to be
awarded federal contracts, such as the Corporate Integrity
Agreements often required by the Department of Health

and Human Services.

Cross-Debarment by Multilateral Development
Banks

Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs), like the
World Bank, also have the ability to debar companies and
individuals for corrupt practices.” Each MDB has its own
process for evaluating alleged corruption in connection
with MDB-funded projects. When appropriate, DOJ and
SEC work with MDBs to share evidence and refer cases.
On April 9, 2010, the African Development Bank Group,
the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022572

