290 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

is 1900 by 1000 pixels with 32 bits of color depth and 100 frames per
second. This is a great deal better — if you enjoy watching sport or nature
documentaries, the additional resolution is amazing. This still falls far
short of reality. An IMAX theatre gives a wrap-around image of about
10,000 by 7,000 pixels and comes closer to the average resolution of the
human eye, estimated at about 30,000 by 20,000 pixels. But the eye cheats.
It concentrates the rods and cones in the central portion of the retina.
Although IMAX achieves the average pixel density of your eye, it comes
nowhere near the peak density which is nearly 10,000 times greater.

For a truly equivalent experience, we would need about 320 million
pixels per eye at a frame rate of 120 frames per second, allowing us full
stereo synthesis. At this speed and resolution, we are matching the visual
acuity of the eye and should be able to fool it completely. But there is
one more problem to overcome: The image is not interactive. Move your
head in the real world and the image will change. The objects in the
foreground will vary their position in relation to the background, so-
called motion parallax. Try it now, move your head and you will see that
the book, or screen you are reading moves in relation to the background.
In a simple digitized 3D image this will not happen. You will have a 3D
image but you will not have a real image, a light field.

To create a real image you need to view a hologram or use head-
tracking technology. A hologram records the light waves given off by
an object in multiple directions rather than just the intensity of the light
striking the camera through a single focal point. When you shine a laser
back through the hologram, it regenerates the light waves as they would
have originally come from the object. That light can be viewed from
different directions, giving the impression of three dimensions rather
than a mere two-dimensional photograph. There is often a limitation in
viewing angle because the original photographic plate must wrap all the
way around an object to capture the full 3D light field, but the illusion is
very convincing.

A more effective way to create a real experience — and one with no
restriction on viewing angle — is to construct the image in a computer
and track the movement of your head. The computer can create the
two-dimensional images each eye would see if the scene were truly
three-dimensional. Computer software resolves motion parallax and a
host of other elements, but to do so the computer must understand a
model of the world so it can calculate how the scene would look from a
particular angle and in the appropriate lighting. Some recent games such
as Activision's ‘Call of Duty’ do this, and the experience is compelling.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015980
