stock annually on a “mark-to-market” basis so that the Fund may treat any resulting gain or
loss as ordinary income or loss to avoid the PFIC tax.

As noted above, the PFIC rules (including the rules pertaining to QEF elections) generally
should not affect tax-exempt U.S. Partners.

The Fund cannot predict with any certainty at this time whether any non-U.S. portfolio
company in which the Fund invests may be subject to the PFIC regime, whether a timely QEF
election can or will be made, or the effect or availability of any applicable elections made by the
Fund. The rules applicable to PFICs are complex, and the foregoing summary of U.S. federal
income taxation of U.S. Partners indirectly owning an interest in a PFIC is general in nature. It
is possible that U.S. Partners may be subject to tax currently under the PFIC regime on their
proportionate shares of certain earnings of a non-U.S. corporation in which the Fund holds an
interest and/or may incur nondeductible interest-like charges on tax liability deferred under the
PFIC regime without receiving from the Fund distributions sufficient to satisfy any such
obligations.

In addition to the PFIC rules discussed above, a U.S. person that is a shareholder of a PFIC may
be required to file an annual information report and/or applicable tax forms with the IRS.

Controlled Foreign Corporations - Under Sections 951 through 957 of the Code, special rules
apply to U.S. persons who own, directly or indirectly and applying certain attribution rules,
10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of a non-U.S. corporation
(each, a “United States Shareholder”) that is a “controlled foreign corporation” (“CFC”). For
this purpose, the Fund will be treated as a United States Shareholder of any foreign corporation
in which the Fund’s share ownership reaches this 10% threshold. A non-U.S. corporation
generally will be a CFC for a taxable year if United States Shareholders collectively own more
than 50% of the total combined voting power or total value of the corporation’s stock on any
day during such taxable year. United States Shareholders of a CFC generally must include in
their gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes their pro rata shares of certain earnings
and profits of the CFC. Further, under Section 1248 of the Code, if a U.S. person sells or
exchanges stock of a non-U.S. corporation and that person is or was a United States Shareholder
at any time during the five-year period ending on the date of such sale or exchange during
which that non-U.S. corporation was a CFC, that U.S. person generally will be required to treat
a portion of the gain recognized upon such sale or exchange as a dividend to the extent of the
earnings and profits of the CFC attributable to such stock. Under U.S. federal income tax rules,
the Fund itself is a U.S. person and, if the Fund becomes a United States Shareholder of a CFC,
taxable U.S. Partners (i) will be required to report and pay tax currently on their shares of the
CFC’s earnings and profits attributable to the Fund that are taxable to its United States
Shareholders under the CFC rules, and (ii) will be subject to the Section 1248 recharacterization
rule described above. In addition, if the Fund is a United States Shareholder of a CFC and a
U.S. Partner disposes of its Limited Partner Interest, that Partner generally will recognize
income under Section 751 of the Code equal to its distributive share of the Section 1248 income
that would have been triggered if the Fund had sold its interest in the CFC at fair market value.
The maximum rate of tax imposed on certain dividend income and certain long-term capital
gains attributable to dispositions of securities generally is 20%, so that a recharacterization of
gain under Section 1248 might not increase that U.S. Partner’s U.S. federal income tax liability.
In addition, income of a CFC subject to income tax in a country other than the U.S. at an

77 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024088
