A
=a

ELL
TAL Cannabis Investment Report | December 2017

Ackrell Capital Cannabis Team

Mike Ackrell founded Ackrell Capital in 2003. Previously, Mr. Ackrell was the Head of
ABN AMRO’s U.S. Technology Investment Banking Group and the Head of Invest-
ment Banking at WR Hambrecht+Co. He also was a Senior Vice President in the

Of
SO

Technology Investment Banking Group of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, where he
began his investment banking career in 1988. Mr. Ackrell has completed more than

150 financing transactions, including more than 50 initial public offerings, and more
than 100 M&A transactions, totaling more than $15 billion in value. He serves on the

Mike Ackrell

rain Board of Directors of a number of companies, including American Giant, Scrubbed
ounder . . . Lo

and Vator.tv. Mr. Ackrell holds a B.S. in Economics, summa cum laude, with majors in
mackrell@ackrell.com

Finance and Accounting, from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.

Tim Coxon joined Ackrell Capital in 2017 after serving as the firm’s legal counsel for
more than five years. Previously, Mr. Coxon was a corporate finance attorney in Silicon
Valley focused on venture capital fund formation, early stage company financings,
mergers and acquisitions and related areas of tax and securities law. He has advised
dozens of VC firms on fund and management-level structuring and portfolio company
investment transactions, and has advised private companies in M&A transactions val-

ued at more than $1.5 billion. Mr. Coxon also has worked as a consultant performing

Tim Coxon
General Counsel

financial and economic analysis for use in corporate litigation and regulatory mat-
ters, and taught college level mathematics for more than 13 years, including 7 years

tcoxon@ackrell.com

as an adjunct statistics professor for the M.B.A. program at Santa Clara University.
Mr. Coxon holds a J.D. from the Santa Clara University School of Law, an M.A. in
Mathematics from San Francisco State University, and a B.A. in Mathematics from the
University of Texas at Austin.

Bryan Castillo joined Ackrell Capital in 2015. Previously, Mr. Castillo served as an
adviser to governments on economic and foreign policy. He has more than 10 years of
investment banking experience focused primarily on cross-border transactions span-
ning Asia, Europe and the Middle East. Mr. Castillo has experience in a number of

industries, including agriculture, cleantech, consumer, energy, media, real estate and

4\ technology. He has advised on more than 50 financing transactions, primarily with
= state-owned enterprises and private companies. Mr. Castillo works closely with several
Bryan Castill P P P Y
ryan Castillo : | “ : :
. family offices on private equity and venture capital investments. Mr. Castillo holds a
artner . . . ae
beastillo@ackrell.com B.S. in Economics from the Pennsylvania State University.

Jeff Mathews joined Ackrell Capital in 2015. Previously, Mr. Mathews was a Direc-
tor with Seven Hills Group, a boutique investment bank focused on middle-market
technology companies. He has more than 15 years of investment banking experience
and was also an Associate in the Technology Investment Banking Groups at Deutsche
Bank and Lehman Brothers. He has advised on a broad range of financings and M&A
transactions across a variety of technology industries totaling more than $10 billion in

Jeff Mathew:

Partner

value. Mr. Mathews holds a B.A. in Economics from the University of Chicago.

jmathews@ackrell.com

176 © 2017 Ackrell Capital, LLC | Member FINRA/SIPC

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024812
