It was initiated in defiance of a longstanding Justice Department presumption against investigating
campaigns in an election year. And while impartiality 1s always required, a 2012 memo by then-
Attorney General Eric Holder emphasizes that impartiality 1s “particularly important in an election
year,” and “politics must play no role in the decisions of federal prosecutors or investigators regarding
any investigations. ... Law enforcement officers and prosecutors may never select the timing of
investigative steps or criminal charges for the purpose of affecting any election, or for the purpose of

giving an advantage or disadvantage to any candidate or political party.”

Strong evidence of a crime can overcome this policy, as was the case with the bureau’s investigation
of Mrs. Clinton’s private email server, which began more than a year before the 2016 election. But
Crossfire was not a criminal investigation. It was a counterintelligence investigation predicated on the
notion that Russia could be colluding with the Trump campaign. There appears to have been no
discernible evidence of Trump-Russia collusion at the time Crossfire was launched, further reinforcing

the notion that it was initiated “for the purpose” of affecting the presidential election.

The chief evidence of collusion is the hacking of the Democratic National Committee’s servers. But
nothing in the public record suggests the Trump campaign aided that effort. The collusion narrative
therefore hinges on the more generic assertion that Russia aimed to help Mr. Trump’s election, and
that the Trump campaign reciprocated by embracing pro-Russian policies. Yet despite massive
surveillance and investigation, there’s still no public evidence of any such exchange—only that Russia

attempted to sow political discord by undermining Mrs. Clinton and to a lesser extent Mr. Trump.

Some members of the Trump team interacted with Russians and advocated dovish policies. But so did
numerous American political and academic elites, including many Clinton advisers. Presidential
campaigns routinely seek opposition research and interact with foreign powers. The Clinton campaign
funded the Steele dossier, whose British author paid Russians to dish anti-Trump dirt. The Podesta
Group, led by the brother of Mrs. Clinton’s campaign chairman, received millions lobbying for
Russia’s largest bank and the European Center for a Modern Ukraine, both with deep Kremlin ties.

The Clinton Foundation and Bill Clinton took millions from Kremlin-connected businesses.

No evidence has emerged of Trump-Russia collusion, and Mr. Mueller has yet to bring collusion-
related charges against anyone. Evidence suggests one of his targets, George Papadopoulos, was lured
to London, plied with the prospect of Russian information damaging to Mrs. Clinton, and taken to
dinner, where he drunkenly bragged that he’d heard about such dirt but never seen it. These
circumstances not only fail to suggest Mr. Papadopoulos committed a crime, they reek of entrapment.

The source of this information, former Australian diplomat Alexander Downer, admits Mr.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026480
