CHINA DAILY Wednesday, October 18, 2017

G Five years on

Robert Lawrence Kuhn

Historical starting point for new stage of development

he 19th National Congress of the

Communist Party of China,

which begins on October 18, will

set the leadership and establish
the policies for the next five years, at least.
While Party national congresses are
always seminal events in the political life
of the country, there is reason to expect
that this congress will have even greater
and longer-reaching impact.

The context of the 19th
CPC National Congress is
the grand vision for Chi-
na presented by CPC
Central Committee Gen-
eral Secretary Xi Jinping,
who is now the “core” of
“the CPC Central Com-
mittee and of the whole
Party” It is an epic narra-
tive of what China has
remarkably achieved, what China has yet to
do, and what China envisages as necessary
to become a great nation.

Xi’s grand vision is famously expressed as
“the Chinese Dream’; described as “the
great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation’,
which has personal and national implica-
tions. It is specified by two overarching
goals: the two centenary goals of establish-
ing a moderately prosperous society by
2020 — the 100th anniversary of the CPC is
2021 — and establishing China as a “fully
modernized, socialist nation” by the 100th
anniversary of the People’s Republic of Chi-
na in 2049.

The first goal, which includes the total
elimination of extreme poverty in the coun-
try, will likely be achieved within the five-
year term of the 19th CPC National
Congress. It is the second goal that is of spe-
cial interest at this time, because in drawing
the roadmap and formulating the policies
to achieve China’s mid-century goal, this
Congress may set the agenda for the next
30-plus years.

The CPC national congresses are the
highest authority of CPC governance and
decision-making. The CPC constitutional
provision of holding congresses every five
years was reaffirmed by Deng Xiaoping in
the early days of reform (in part to establish
order and collective responsibility after a
period of chaos and political vicissitudes),
and since 1982, Party congresses have been
held scrupulously on schedule.

The congresses establish the senior lead-
ership of the Party and hence the nation by
electing the CPC Central Committee, which
in turn elects all top Party positions, and
also the Central Commission for Discipline
Inspection; review and assess the achieve-
ments and challenges over the five years
since the previous Party Congress; set the
vision, goals and objectives, agenda and pri-
orities for the subsequent five years; revise
the Party constitution (to keep up with the
times); and project an image of unified pur-
pose and direction to engender national
confidence and commitment.

The review and assessment of the previ-
ous five years and setting the agenda and
priorities for the subsequent five years are
formally presented in the Report, delivered
by the general secretary representing the
outgoing Central Committee and thus
reflecting the consensus view of the Party
leadership. Ratified by the congress (after
minor modifications), it becomes the guid-
ing document that drives policy for the
incoming Central Committee.

On the day following a congress, the first
plenum of the new 19th Central Committee
is convened to elect the Party’s new senior
leadership, including the Political Bureau,
the Standing Committee of the Political
Bureau (to which, in essence, everything in
China reports), and the general secretary of
the Central Committee. Also approved are
the Central Military Commission (which
oversees the People’s Liberation Army), the
Secretariat (which runs Party daily opera-
tions), and the head of the Central Commis-
sion for Discipline Inspection.

The planning for the national Party Con-
gress follows similar patterns. Beginning
more than a year in advance, it involves
both formal and informal processes. The
formal process includes the election or
appointment of about 2,300 delegates
(2,280 delegates at the 19th National Con-
gress) from among the Party’s over 89 mil-
lion members, at all levels and in all sectors,
and the preparation of the Report via an
elaborate system of extensive research in
targeted areas (involving thousands of
experts), solicitation of broad input, drafts
(or sections) circulated to numerous Party
experts and officials for comments, and iter-
ative intense reviews by higher bodies and
senior leaders. In addition, smaller groups
are assigned the more sensitive tasks of
amending the Party constitution and rec-
commending candidates for the new Central
Committee and senior leadership positions.

Final decisions for this year’s congress, as
well as final edits of the Report, were made
at the Seventh Plenum of the 18th CPC Cen-
tral Committee, held on Oct 11 to 14, days
prior to the opening ceremony of the 19th
CPC National Congress.

To understand the position and role of
CPC Central Committee General Secretary
Xi at the 19th Party National Congress, we
should appreciate what it means for Xi to

Robert
Lawrence Kuhn

be the core. It was in October 2016, at the
Sixth Plenum of the 18th CPC Central Com-
mittee, that Xi was designated the “core” of
the CPC Central Committee and of the
entire Party. The appellation was an unam-
biguous assertion that China requires
strong leadership to maintain stability and
ensure development given China’s unprece-
dented, complex challenges: domestically,
slower growth, industrial overcapacity,
endemic pollution, unbalanced develop-
ment, income disparity, social injustice,
social service demands; and internationally,
regional conflicts, sluggish economies, vola-
tile markets, trade protectionism, ethnic
clashes, terrorism, geopolitical rivalries, and
territorial disputes.

Moreover, because China must deepen
reform to achieve the goal of being a moder-
ately prosperous society, the resistance of
entrenched interest groups must be over-
come. In fact, the necessity of having a lead-
ership core to maintain stability and
expedite reform was a primary factor relat-
ing to Xi’s elevation to be the core.

In addition, not only does Xi have the
responsibility for China’s transformation;
he is also accountable for it. He has shown
courage in combating rampant practice of
graft, bribery and illicit patronage. Xi’s
relentless anti-corruption campaign is
altering how officials in government and
managers in industry work, and even how
they think. And let no one assume that Xi’s
battle against corruption has been risk-free.

Xi as the core does not change the Party's
cardinal principle of “democratic central-
ism” The Party says it is encouraging the
democratic solicitation of input and feed-
back from Party members, lower-ranked
officials, and the general public; and
strengthening centralism through Xi’s core
leadership.

In acomplex world, given the diverse
interests and forces in Chinese society, the
Party asserts that the Chinese Dream can-
not be realized without unity. Strong leader-
ship is required to build and maintain unity
for China to continue its development.

When Xi received the core appellation, he
was already general secretary of the Party,
chairman of the Central Military Commis-
sion, and president of the country — the
three highest leadership positions in China
— so how does being the “core” augment his
perceived stature or actual power?

The 2016 Party plenum communique
confirmed that “the collective leadership
system ... must always be adhered to”,
Nonetheless, there must have been shifts in
terms of both the setting of the agenda and
making final decisions — or else making Xi
the core would have little meaning.

When foreigners dismiss the political
aphorisms of China’s leaders as simplistic
sloganeering, they miss an opportunity to
enrich their understanding. Chinese offi-
cials certainly hold Xi’s frameworks in high
esteem.

Xi’s thought for the Party, the inner-Party
directives, include the “eight regulations”
(against waste and perks); “four self-confi-
dences” (in the country’s development path,

The China model, Xi
said, successful at home,
also broadens the way
for developing countries
to modernize, thus
providing Chinese
wisdom and Chinese
solutions for problems
facing mankind.

theories, systems, culture of socialism with
Chinese characteristics); opposing the “four
evil winds” (formalism, bureaucracy,
hedonism, decadence); the “four greats”
(struggles, projects, enterprises, dreams).

The combined intent is to make Party
members, especially Party and government
officials, more dedicated, committed, com-
petent and loyal, with exemplary moral
standards of probity and rectitude. It is no
small order.

The Party’s unremitting anti-corruption
campaign, unprecedented under Xi, has
won strong public support and will certain-
ly continue. But some foreign analysts mis-
takenly see Xi’s anti-corruption campaign
as largely a tool of political power, thus
reflecting a superficial and one-dimension-
al understanding of China. Befitting the size
and complexity of the country, for almost
every decision of importance, China’s lead-
ers have multiple motivations.

For the anti-corruption campaign, these
motivations include respect for the rule of
law and judicial impartiality; effective func-
tioning of the Party devoid of personal
interests; public trust in the Party; efficient
economic resource allocations (corruption
distorts markets); expediting reform (by
breaking up “interest groups” that resist
reform); maintaining national unity (by
removing officials with non-standard politi-
cal ambitions); elevating morality of Chi-
nese society; restoring ethical standards of
Chinese civilization; and facilitating China’s
emergence as a world-business center and
global role model.

Xi’s thought for the country — his new
ideas, new strategies, new initiatives set
forth over the past five years — can be
encapsulated as the overall vision of the
“Five in One” construction (economic, polit-
ical, cultural, social, ecological); governance
of the country via his “Four Comprehen-
sives” (a moderately prosperous society;
deepening reform, strengthening the rule of
law, strictly governing the Party); and
renewed economic development via the
Five Major Development Concepts (innova-
tion, coordination, green, open, sharing),
plus “supply-side structural reform’,

Xi’s thought for national rejuvenation
includes a grand vision for global govern-
ance, consisting of eight big diplomatic con-
cepts: a global community of shared destiny
and future; win-win cooperation; economic
globalization; fairer global governance; a
new kind of major power relationship;
expanding cooperation while managing dif-
ferences; multilateralism; and people-to-
people exchanges. Moreover, Xi’s Belt and
Road Initiative — facilitating economic
development in developing countries, espe-
cially by building much-needed infrastruc-
ture — is China's “project of the century”,

China recognizes it has international
responsibilities and seeks to uphold a com-
mon, comprehensive, cooperative and sus-
tainable security strategy. China’s own.
requirement is to protect the country’s
three sacrosanct “core interests” — its polit-
ical system, economic development, and
national sovereignty (territorial integrity).

China appreciates that to be a major
country, with its political influence reflect-
ing its economic strength, and also to pro-
tect its own core interests, its diplomacy
must be pro-active. China does not claim
that its “China model” can be adopted by
other countries, but the world should
understand Xi’s principles of governance as
optimally suited for China’s domestic condi-
tions.

Party congresses have similar styles and
to casual observers, they can all seem much
the same. But they do have differences,
which are usually subtle and often mean-
ingful.

For the 19th National Congress, some of
the things to look out for are:

Are political frameworks and policies
stated in their expected forms? If so, confi-
dence in political and economic stability is
reinforced.

How is General Secretary Xi Jinping’s sta-
tus as “core” further stressed, as expected?

Who are the members of the new Stand-
ing Committee of the Political Bureau and.
what are their portfolios?

Assuming the Party Constitution is
amended to include Xi’s new ideas, new
strategies, new initiatives, will they be given
an overarching label?

What is the composition of the new Cen-
tral Committee?

In listing the essential economic, politi-
cal, cultural, social and ecological policies,
are there shifts of emphasis that, however
nuanced, suggest changing priorities?

For deepening reform, surely stressed,
what targets are specified? For example,
what will be stated explicitly about State-
owned enterprise reform?

Environmental protection is a high prior-
ity, but what specific regulations and
enhanced enforcements distinguish the
fight against pollution under Xi from those
of previous congresses?

Many social areas will be highlighted —
for example, education, healthcare, rural
land reform, migrant worker residencies —
but do any stand out?

As already affirmed, the anti-corruption
campaign will continue, but will its intensi-

SHI YU / CHINA DAILY

ty or direction change in any manner, will it
be institutionalized? How will the forth-
coming National Supervisory Commission
work?

What is the relative prominence of mili-
tary reform and modernization?

What is the relative prominence of inter-
national affairs, given the high-profile Belt
and Road Initiative and China’s intense,
pro-active diplomacy?

Forecasting the 19th CPC National Con-
gress is not all guesswork and triangulating
rumors. Following tradition, Xi offered to
Party leaders a preview of his Report.
Speaking on July 26, he outlined China’s
achievements since the previous national
congress: new concepts of development,
deepened reform, enhanced rule of law,
strengthened environmental protection,
and a more capable military.

China, Xi said, has, after suffering centu-
ry-long hardships and tribulations, taken
three historic leaps, from standing-up to
becoming better-off to becoming stronger.
Xi called for a comprehensive, strategic and
forward-looking action program, highlight-
ing the success and vitality of socialism with
Chinese characteristics, the increasing
strength of the Party, and China’s expanding
circle of friends in the international com-
munity. In China, he stressed, political legit-
imacy is founded on competence and
accomplishment.

Significantly, Xi asserted that China’s
development stands at a new historic start-
ing point and that socialism with Chinese
characteristics is entering a new develop-
ment stage. The CPC cannot rest on its lau-
rels, he stressed. The country faces daunting
challenges. He warned the Party against
self-satisfaction and blind optimism.

Xi’s comments resonated with his core
values and bear witness to his consistency.
In 2006, then Zhejiang Party Secretary Xi
told me that China should be proud of its
successes, but its “achievements should not
engender complacency’, adding “we need to
assess ourselves objectively”:

Preparing for the upcoming congress, Xi
recognizes that the people's desire for a hap-
pier life is stronger than ever. They want
better education, higher incomes, stable
jobs, reliable social insurance, higher quali-
ty healthcare, more comfortable living con-
ditions, a more beautiful environment and
aricher cultural life.

And there has been an inflection point in
China’s international perspective, reflecting
the nation’s consequential global engage-
ment. The China model, Xi said, successful
at home, also broadens the way for develop-
ing countries to modernize, thus providing
Chinese wisdom and Chinese solutions for
problems facing mankind.

The influence of the 19th CPC National
Congress and the impact of Xi Jinping’s
thought seem for decades to come.

The author is a public intellectual, interna-
tional corporate strategist, and China
expert/commentator. He is co-creator (with
Adam Zhu) and host of CGTN’s Closer to
China with R.L. Kuhn.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023686
