Date: 7/13/06 PALM BEACH POLICE DEPARTMENT

Time: 9:27:55 Incident Report ' Program: CMS301L

Case No. . . . : 1-05-000368 (Continued)
property number 05-294 with the blank tape.

KEKKEKEERERRREREREREREREEREKEK NARRATIVE # BR RRR EKERKEEKERKRERERKREERREEE

NA Reported By: RECAREY, JOSEPH 9/26/05

Entered By.: ALTOMARO, NICKIE A. 9/28/05

Copies of the tapes that were submitted into evidence were requested.
Additionally, trash pulls were started on September 21, 2005. Sgt. b6
Szarszewski made telephone contact with Tony Higgins, Supervisor of b7c

the Sanitation Department, and requested that trash be collected at
the Epstein House located at 358 El Brillo in Palm Beach. Sgt
Szarszewski met with Sanitation worker, Jeff Williams and observed him
enter the property at 358 El Brillo. Shortly thereafter, Williams
exited the property and placed the three white trash bags in the empty
well in the rear of the truck. Williams then drove away where he met
with Sgt. Szarszewski who removed the bags from the well and placed
them into one large black trash bag. The bag was returned to the
Police Station where I was waiting for him. Upon his arrival, we
inspected the bags where several notes and papers were found. These

notes contained names of girls with times. Additionally, there was a

note Sean Jeffrey Epstein on a notepad, which

stated,For a good time aT Also,
there was another telephone number on the note Also found
was a written note, which stated, can not come at 7 p.m.
tomorrow because of soccer. These items were written on notepads that
contain Jeffrey Epstein on the bottom of the notes. These items were
placed into evidence for future follow up. I requested subpoenas for
subscriber information on the telephone numbers listed above on the
note from The cellular telephones[_jand

are both assigned to Cingular Cellular Service. Other notes

were found within the trash on Jeffrey Epstein pad, papers that.
contained telephone numbers. One note had Po with

‘written on it. This cellular number_is assigned to Cingular Cellular
Service. Another sheet had written[> | which is assigned to Bell
South Telecommunications. The subpoenas were picked up and submitted
to Cingular and Bell South Telecommunication for subscriber
information.

On September 22, 2005, I was informed by Sgt. Szarszewski that there
would be no trash pick up as it was recycle pick up day. A request
for copies of the micro and standard size cassettes were requested
from crime scene to familiarize myself with the interviews conducted.

On September 23, 2005, the tapes were received and I began to become
familiar with the interviews that were conducted. Det. Krauel had met
with Town of Palm Beach Sanitation worker, Jeff Williams and observed
him enter the property of 358 El Brillo. Shortly thereafter, Williams
exited the property and placed the three white trash bags in the empty
well in the rear of the truck. Williams then drove away where he met
with Det. Krauel who removed the bags from the well and placed them
into.one large black trash bag. The bag was returned to the Police
Station where I was waiting for him. Upon his arrival, we inspected

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018977
