This policy would effectively result in the tax authorities recognizing all sales that take
place in the US (regardless of where they are produced) and all the domestic costs
incurred to produce goods and services for customers (regardless of where the sale
takes place). As a result, net importers (such as many retailers) would suffer, as they
would have to pay taxes on their domestic sales without being able to deduct a
significant portion of their costs of production. Conversely, net exporters (companies
with much of their production in the US but sales outside of the US) would stand to
benefit from not having to pay taxes on their foreign sales while being able to deduct a
significant proportion of production costs (Exhibit 3). Purely domestic companies would
be unaffected.

Exhibit 3: Illustration of border adjustment treatment of US corporate taxation

US Non-US
Sold in the US:

Recognize sales Made in the US:
Deduct costs

Sold overseas:
ignore sales

&
os

Sold overseas

Ignore sles

. =,
Made in the U3,
Deduct costs

Made overseas:
Made overseas: Can’t deduct costs
Can’t deduct costs

Sold in the OS:
Recognize sales

Source: BofA Merrill Lynch US Equity & US Quant Strategy

Even if border adjustments are enacted, there is significant uncertainty around
implementation details. For this analysis, we focus on the first order impact of border
adjustments, but we recognize there would be significant second order impacts on the
pricing of products, pricing within the supply chain, foreign exchange rates as well as
foreign policy reactions. (We discuss many of these second order impacts later in this
report.) For the current exercise, we also ignored the cost of services as the
implementation of these rules would be more complicated. See the Methodology
section for more details.

We estimate that at a 20% tax rate, border adjustments would detract $5-6 from 2018
EPS, with nearly 80% of the drag coming from the Consumer Discretionary and
Consumer Staples sectors (roughly evenly split). This impact includes a 50% haircut to
account for offsets from alternate sourcing, currency rates and pricing power. On one
hand, we may be drastically underestimating the impact because we have not included
the second order impacts on the supply chain. For example, many retailers source the
bulk of their goods from domestic suppliers, who source their goods from overseas
suppliers. So while the original retailer may not feel the direct tax hit from importing
goods, the supplier that took the tax hit would likely pass along a significant portion of
this via a higher cost. On the other hand, the supplier or the retailer could look for
alternate domestic sources for those products, but it would largely depend on whether
the cost differential of production between the US and overseas exceeded the border
adjustment tax. Some key components in determining the cost differential are the
foreign exchange rates (more on this below) and labor costs. In the end, the net impact
of the border adjustment taxes will be driven by a complex interplay between corporate
tax rates, pricing power, foreign exchange moves, foreign versus domestic availability
and cost differentials.

Bankof America

Merrill Lynch Equity Strategy Focus Point | 29 January 2017s: 13

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023081
