Freedom House

Chapter 2

Propaganda at Home and Abroad

The following propositions have all appeared in the
Russian media over the past few years:

¢ The United States hired Islamic State terrorists
to sabotage the Russian commercial airliner that
was destroyed after takeoff in the Sinai in 2015.

¢ A three-year-old boy was crucified by the U.S.-
backed Ukrainian army in Slovyansk in 2014.

¢ The United States is planning a major war in Eu-
rope to enable Washington to cancel its national
debt.

¢ The downing of the Malaysian airliner over
eastern Ukraine in 2014 was in fact the central
ingredient in an elaborate, American-driven plot
to place blame on Russia.

e American policies will lead to a global “homosex-
ual sodomite tsunami.

This is just a small sample of similar claims or conjec-
tures that have made their way into Russian news cov-
erage, especially in the wake of Moscow's occupation
of Crimea and invasion of eastern Ukraine. They stand
as areminder that under Vladimir Putin, the Russian
media environment has been transformed from one
marked by vibrancy and diverse opinions (if not high
professional standards) to one dominated by blatant
propaganda on the most sensitive international topics
of the day.

The basic regime narrative of U.S.-led conspiracy is
applied to a broad set of themes: depression in oil
prices, downgrading of Russia's credit ratings, political
change in Ukraine, Russia's Olympics doping scandal.
Every problem, Russians are told, is due to American
plots and maneuvers.

Press freedom and democracy

A free press ranks among the most critical institutions
of liberal democracy. Among the reforms introduced
by Mikhail Gorbachev in his campaign to modernize
the Soviet system, glasnost, or openness, played the
most important role in challenging the decades-old
system of Soviet totalitarianism. Something similar
can be said of press freedom initiatives in other new
democracies during the latter part of the 20th century,

“If the 20th century was defined by
the battle for freedom of information
and against censorship, the 21st
century will be defined by malevo-
lent actors, states or corporations,
abusing the right to freedom of
information for quite other ends.”

—Vasily Gatov, media analyst

“Information wars have already
become standard practice and the
main type of warfare. The bombers
are now sent in after the information
campaign.”

—Dmitry Kiselyov, chief Russian propaganda strategist

particularly in postcommunist societies where strict
press censorship had prevailed for years. Even if the
professionalism and ethical standards of journalism
in those countries were not always up to the highest
levels, the fact that the press spoke with different
voices, different opinions, and even different biases
was a huge step toward a world in which democracy
was the norm.

Authoritarians push back

lt is precisely because of press freedom’s central
importance to democracy that the new generation of
authoritarian leaders has made its annihilation a top
priority. However, modern authoritarians recognize
that the methods of the print and analog broadcast
era—prepublication censorship and stilted, formula-
ic propaganda—were no longer viable in the age of
digital media and globalization.

At a minimum, governments that sought involvement
in the world economy found it advisable to tolerate a
measure of openness about budgets, economic data,
and those aspects of social life that are critical for
international business. Authoritarian leaders thus face
the dilemma of retaining domination over the political
story while permitting a degree of accurate informa-
tion about economic affairs.

www.freedomhouse.org

15

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019249
