28

current headlines, begin with the Arab world, but the answers such as
there are will, nevertheless, ultimately come in from the East. It 1s in
those Asian lands that conventional Western philosophical precepts
are challenged. The ideology by which Asian autocrats stand in
opposition to the likes of Mill and Berlin falls—to some extent—
under the rubric of Confucianism. Confucianism is more a sensibility
than a political doctrine. It stresses traditional authority, particularly
that of the family, as the sine qua non of political tranquility. The
well-being of the community takes precedence over that of the
individual. Morality is inseparable from one’s social obligation to the
kin group and the powers that be. The Western—and particularly the
American—tendency is to be suspicious of power and central
authority; whereas the Asian tendency is to worry about disorder.
Thus, it is in Asia, much more so than in the Middle East, where
autocracy can give the Western notion of freedom a good run for its
money. The fact that even a chaotic democracy is better than the rule
of a Mubarak or a Ben Ali proves nothing. But is a chaotic
democracy better than the rule of autocrats who have overseen GDP
growth rates of 10 percent annually over the past three decades? It is
in places like China, Singapore, Malaysia and Vietnam where good
dictators have produced economic miracles. These in turn have led to
the creation of wide-ranging personal freedoms, even as these leaders
have compelled people against their will on a grand scale. Here the
debate gets interesting.

Indeed, probably one of the most morally vexing realizations in the
field of international politics is that Deng Xiaoping, by dramatically
raising the living standard of hundreds of millions of Chinese in such
a comparatively short space of time—which, likewise, led to an
unforeseen explosion in personal freedoms across China—was,
despite the atrocity of Tiananmen Square that he helped perpetrate,
one of the great men of the twentieth century. Deng’s successors,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_032198
