This research report provides general information only. Neither the information nor any opinion expressed constitutes an offer or an invitation to make an offer, to buy or sell any securities or
other financial instrument or any derivative related to such securities or instruments (e.g, options, futures, warrants, and contracts for differences). This report is not intended to provide

personal investment advice and it does not take into account the specific investment o!
ppropriateness of investing in financial instruments and
re prospects may not be realized. Any decision to purchase or subscribe for securities in any offering must be based solely on existing public information on such

financial advice regarding the a
that statements regarding futu
security or the in
Securities and ot
deposits or other obligations 0
among others, m
instruments may be difficult to

income from
lose their enti
Futures and o

disclosure documents. Investmi

BofA Merrill L

action may be limited by regulations prohibiting or restricting shortse
executing any short idea con

his report m
hat presents

In the event tl
therewith ML

transactions, i
Copyright an
Copyright 20

and client we
recommenda

information k
BofA
researc
hould
ny Bo
n public info
rofessionals
his re
ities. No

h repo
consu

ou

Any informati
seek tax advic
The informati
may contain li
contained on
any affiliation
submi
All opinions, p

periods. You s|

its security an
inancial instr

his report or

ideas and recommenda
Foreign currency rates of exc
effectively assume currency risk.
UK Readers: The protec
ocated outside of the U

LPF&S or one of its aff
ime, hold a trading posi
BofA Merrill Lynch, through business units other than Bo
with, and reach differen
methods of th
recipient of th

errill Lynch Global Research and certain business groups. As a resul

Research po
containing suc

ting any personal information to them. BofA Merrill Lynch is not responsib

Certain outstanding reports may contain discussions and/or investment opinions
recent research report relating to an issuer prior to making an investment decision.
nsome cases, an issuer may be classified as Restricted or may be Under Review o

ormation in the prospectus or other offering document issued in con
her financial instruments discussed in this report, or recommended, o
any insured depository institution (inc!
nterparty default risk and liquidity risk.
va
d other financial instruments, if any, may fluctuate and
ment. Past performance is not necessarily a guide to fu
propriate for all investors. Such financia
en

arket risk, cou

such securities an
re principal inves
ptions are not ap

ynch is aware tha
ained in this report.

ay contain a trading idea or recommendation which
a transaction opportunity, but does not have any im
ions may differ directionally from the ana
hange may adversely affect the value

high
pact on the analyst's
lyst's ra
, price o|

ions
nited Kingdom. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Researc
iliates is a regular issuer of traded financial instru
tion (long or short) in the securities and financial

A Merril
conclusions from, the information presented in

@ persons who prepared them, and BofA Merrill Lynch is un
is report.

hat the recipient received this report pursuant to a contract

ments linked

port.

ncluding transactions in any securities mentioned in this re
d General Information regarding Research Reports:

bsites and other portals by BofA Merrill Lynch and are not pu

nown to, professionals in other business areas of BofA Merri

t their o'

rmation. Fac
in other busi

s and views presented in this material that rela
ness areas of BofA Merrill Lynch in connection with the legal

ne of MLPF&S, any of i
icy prohibits rese
h rating, recom|

s affiliates or their research analysts has any au
arch personnel from disclosing a recommenciati
mendation or investment thesis.

on relating to the tax status of financial instruments discussed herein i
e based on their particular circumstances from an independent tax pro
on herein (other than disclosure information relating to BofA Merrill Ly
nks to tl
such
with

hird-
hird-party websi
BofA Merrill Lyne

es is not part of this report and is not incorpora

e
ions and estimates constitute the judgment of the author as of

rojec
hould therefore assume that BofA Merrill Lynch will not update any

re

d
a

d/or financial instruments) to be suspended or withdrawn and shou
uments) nor should the analyses or opinion(s) be considered a solici

its contents.

uding, Bank of A
jo security, financial instrument or derivative is suitable for all investors. In some cases, securities and other financial
ue or sell and reliable information about the value or

strategies explained in this report may not be appro}

provided by the U.K. regulatory regime, including the Financial Services Scheme, do not apply in general to

instruments discussed in this report.
Lynch Global Research, may have issued and may in the future issue

between the recipient and MLPF&S for t
PF&S may be deemed to be acting as an investment adviser, such status relates, if at all, solely to the

beyond the delivery of this report (unless otherwise agreed specifically in writing by MLPF&S). MLPF&S is and con

6 Bank of America Corporation. All rights reserved. This research report is prepared for the use of Bo
disclosed, in whole or in part, or in any form or manner, without the express written consent of BofA Merrill Lynch.
blicly-available materials. Any unauthorized use or disclosure is prohi
constitutes your agreement not to redistribute, retransmit, or disclose to others the con
ions, estimates or price targets) without first obtaining expressed permiss
Materials prepared by BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research personnel are based on public i
I Lynch, includ
, BofA Merrill Lynch does not disclose certain client relationships witl
rts. To the extent this report discusses any legal proceeding or issues, it has not been prepared as nor is it intended to express any legal conclusion, opinion or advice. Investors
wn legal advisers as to issues of law relating to the subject matter of this report. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research perso!
‘A Merrill Lynch entity and/or its directors, officers and employees may be plaintif
e to any such

bjectives, financial situation and the particular needs of any specific
implementing investment strategies discussed or recommended in

nection with such offering, and not on this report.
fered or sold by Merrill Lynch, are not insured by the Federal Deposi
merica, N.A.). Investments in general and, derivatives, in particular, in

risks related to the security or financial instrument may be difficult

person. Investors should seek
this report and should understand

Insurance Corporation and are not
volve numerous risks, including,

‘0 obtain. Investors should note that

hat price or value of such securities and instruments may rise or fal
ure performance. Levels and basis for taxation may change.

particular “Overweight” or “Underweight” rating

to securities that may have been recommended in this report. MLPF:

inues to ac

A Merrill Ly
BofA Merri

nch clients and may not be re
| Lynch research reports are d
bited. Receip
ents, opinions, conclusion, or information contained in this report
ion from an authorized officer of BofA Merrill Lynch.

nformation. Facts and views presented in this material
ing investment banking personnel. BofA Merrill Lynch

have not be

nnel’s know

proceedings have not been reviewed by, discussed with, and may n
proceedings or matters relevant to such proceedings.

port has been prepared independently of any issuer of securities mentioned herein and not in connection with any proposed offering of securities or as agent of
hority whatsoever to make any representation or warranty on behalf of the issuer(s}. Bo
on, investment rating, or investment thesis for review by an issuer prior to the pub

s not intended to provide tax advice or to be used by anyone to provide tax advi
essional.
nch and its affiliates) was obtained from various sources and we do not guaran
party websites. BofA Merrill Lynch is not responsible for the content of any third-party website or any linked content contained in a third-
ed by reference into this report. The inclusion of a link in this report does not imply any
h. Access to any third-party website is at your own risk, and you should always review the terms and privacy policies at third-par'
or such terms and privacy policies and expressly disclaims any liability for them.
he date of the report and are subject to change without notice. Prices also are su
notice. BofA Merrill Lynch is under no obligation to update this report and BofA Merrill Lynch's ability to publish research on the subject issuer(s) in the future is subj
act, circumstance or opinion contained in this report.
ating to securities, financial instruments and/or issuers that are no longer curren

r Extended Review. In each case, investors should consider any investment opinion
not rely on the analyses and investment opinion(s) pertaining to such issuer (or i
ion of any kind. Sales persons and financial advisors affiliated with MLPF&S or any of its affiliates may not
solicit purchases of securities or financial instruments that are Restricted or Under Review and may only solicit securities under Extended Review in accordance with
either BofA Merrill Lynch nor any officer or employee of BofA Merrill Lynch accepts any liability whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential damages or losses arising from any use of

this report. Investors in such sec!

business coordinated by BofA
h policies relating to conflicts of interest are described at http://go.bofa.com/coi.

and, in some cases, investors may

instruments may expire worthless. Before investing in futures or options, clients must receive the appropriate risk

priate at all times. Costs of such strategies do not include commission or margin expenses.

the implementation of the ideas expressed in this report may depend upon an investor's ability to short securities or other financial instruments and that such
ling in many jurisdictions. Investors are urged to seek advice regarding the applicability of such regulations prior to

ights a specific identified near-term catalyst or event impacting a security, issuer, industry sector or the market generally

which is based on a three month trade horizon). Trading
ing ona security or issuer because they reflect the impact of a near-term catalyst or event.
r Income of any security or financial instrument mentioned in

urities and instruments
errill Lynch entities

&S or one of its affiliates may, at any

rading ideas or recommendations that are inconsistent
his report. Such ideas or recommendations reflect the different time frames, assumptions, views and analytical
der no obligation to ensure that such other trading ideas or recommendations are brought to

he attention of any

he provision of research services for a separate fee, and in connection
person with whom MLPF&S has contracted directly and does not extend
solely as a broker-dealer in connection with tl

he execution of any

distributed, retransmitted or
istributed simultaneously to internal
t and review of this research report

(including any investment

en reviewed by, and may not reflect

has established information barriers between
h, or compensation received

rom, such issuers in

ledge of legal proceedings in which

s, defendants, co-defendants or co-plaintiffs with or involving issuers mentioned in this report is based

ot reflect information known to,
any issuer of any

A Merrill Lynch
ication of a research
ce. Investors are urged to
cal
part

ts accuracy. This report
y website. Content
endorsement by or
es before

y websi

bject to change without
ect to applicable quiet

. Always refer to the most

relating to such issuer (or
s securities and/or

irm policies.

Bankof Ame:
Merrill Lyne!

rica
h

Liquid Insight | 22 September 2016

HOUS

7

E_OVERSIGHT_010615
