UNTIED ARAB EMIRATES

By receiving this Memorandum, the person or entity to whom it has been issued understands, acknowledges and
agrees that neither this Memorandum nor the interests in the Fund have been approved, disapproved or passed on in
any way by the Central Bank of the United Arab Emirates (“UAE”), the UAE Securities and Commodities Authority
(the “SCA”) or any other authority in the UAE, nor has the entity conducting the placement in the UAE received
authorization or licensing from the Central Bank of the UAE, the SCA or any other authority in the UAE to market or
sell interests in the Fund within the UAE. The SCA accepts no liability in relation to the Fund and is not making any
recommendation with respect to an investment in the Fund. No services relating to the interests in the Fund
including the receipt of applications and/or the allotment or redemption of such interests have been or will be
rendered within the UAE by the Fund. Nothing contained in this Memorandum is intended to constitute UAE
investment, legal, tax, accounting or other professional advice. This Memorandum is for the information of
prospective investors only and nothing in this Memorandum is intended to endorse or recommend a particular
course of action. Prospective investors should consult with an appropriate professional for specific advice rendered
on the basis of their situation. No offer or invitation to subscribe for interests or sale of interests in the Fund has been
or will be rendered in, or to any persons in, or from, the Dubai International Finance Centre.

UNITED KINGDOM

In the United Kingdom, this Memorandum is being distributed only to and is directed only at (i) persons who have
professional experience in matters relating to investments falling within Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005, as amended (the “Order”), (ii) high-net-worth entities falling
within Article 49(2) of the Order, and (iii) any other persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully be communicated
(all such persons together being referred to as “relevant persons”). Persons who are not relevant persons must not
act on or rely on this Memorandum or any of its contents. Any investment or investment activity to which this
Memorandum relates is available only to relevant persons and will be engaged in only with relevant persons.
Recipients must not distribute, publish, reproduce, or disclose this Memorandum, in whole or in part, to any other
person.

105 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024116
