Kushner, going concave, retreated from the discussion.

Trump, changing the topic, said to Scarborough and Brzezinski, “So what about you
guys? What’s going on?” He was referencing their not-so-secret secret relationship.

Scarborough and Brzezinski said it was all still complicated, and not public, officially,
but it was good and everything was getting resolved.

“You guys should just get married,” prodded Trump.

“T can marry you! I’m an Internet Unitarian minister,” Kushner, otherwise an Orthodox
Jew, said suddenly.

“What?” said the president. “What are you talking about? Why would they want you to
marry them when / could marry them? When they could be married by the president! At
Mar-a-Lago!”

7 OK Ok

Almost everybody advised Jared not to take the inside job. As a family member, he would
command extraordinary influence from a position that no one could challenge. As an
insider, a staffer, not only could his experience be challenged, but while the president
himself might not yet be exposed, a family member on staff would be where enemies and
critics might quite effectively start chipping from. Besides, inside Trump’s West Wing, if
you had a title—that is, other than son-in-law—people would surely want to take it from
you.

Both Jared and Ivanka listened to this advice—from among others it came from Jared’s
brother, Josh, doubly making this case not only to protect his brother but also because of
his antipathy to Trump—but both, balancing risk against reward, ignored it. Trump
himself variously encouraged his son-in-law and his daughter in their new ambitions and,
as their excitement mounted, tried to express his skepticism—while at the same time
telling others that he was helpless to stop them.

For Jared and Ivanka, as really for everybody else in the new administration, quite
including the president, this was a random and crazy turn of history such that how could
you not seize it? It was a joint decision by the couple, and, in some sense, a joint job. Jared
and Ivanka had made an earnest deal between themselves: if sometime in the future the
time came, she’d be the one to run for president (or the first one of them to take the shot).
The first woman president, Ivanka entertained, would not be Hillary Clinton, it would be
Ivanka Trump.

Bannon, who had coined the Jarvanka conflation now in ever greater use, was horrified
when the couple’s deal was reported to him. “They didn’t say that? Stop. Oh come on.
They didn’t actually say that? Please don’t tell me that. Oh my god.”

And the truth was that at least by then Ivanka would have more experience than almost

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019936
