skin when it was repeated several times. Columbia University’s Nobelist in the brain
sciences, Eric Kandel studied the neural mechanisms of habituation as a primitive,
accessible and fundamental example of learning, the association of a nonresponse
to a usually evocative stimulus, in Aplysia californica. The sea snails learned not to
respond to a local irritation with a gill-withdrawal response when exposed to it many
times. They learned to stop paying attention to the perturbation. The background
noise appears to disappear after a little time in the Mall. Though his exploration of
its synaptic mechanisms involved the neural circuit of the gill-withdrawal reflex in the
marine snail, its generality and human relevance is well established. Hundreds of
papers can be found reporting the results of studies of habituation in normal
humans under all kinds of circumstances as well as in psychopathological
conditions. That it samples something both fundamental and persistent is suggested
by studies in children by one of Kandel’s students, Michael Lewis. He found that the
rate of habituation of a startle response to a bright light in one-year-old human
infants predicted success in many kinds of learning and other cognitive functions
when the children were tested again at the age of four. Pavlov’s experiments
studied habituation of the classically conditioned salivary response to meat powder-
coupled bell sounds in dogs in which the bell was followed by nothing, not only led
to inhibition of the salivary response with unreinforced trial repetition but
generalization of the inhibitory state such that dogs were observed to freeze in
motionless catatonic states for hours. In the language of our statistical measures,
the fixation of the dog’s behavior would manifest minimal entropy in the form of H7 =
Hu = 0 and the lowest complexity values for AC and srs. Entheogenic agents like
LSD or mescaline inhibit the process of habituation and fixation, maximizing the
entropy of behavioral measures, H7, Hy > 1 and high complexity values for AC and
srs.

Mark Geyer and David Braff, Professors at the University of California in La
Jolla and Michael Davis, a Professor at Yale’s School of Medicine, found that
entheogenic agents, such as mescaline and LSD, as well as naturally occurring
indoleamines, such as DMT, which occurs naturally in human brain, prevented

habituation of startle responding in mammals. Each sound repetition was treated as

115

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013615
