47

many with some kind of government linkage underscores the need for vigilance in
enforcing a stricter code of due diligence and transparency on the part of university
administrations and faculties.

Pressure on University Administrations

There are a large number of successful exchange programs between American and
Chinese universities. Three US universities have developed campuses in China (Johns
Hopkins, Duke, NYU), more than one hundred universities participate in cooperative-
education programs in China, and countless US faculty members participate in
collaborative projects with Chinese colleagues (principally in the sciences). These
relationships have not been easy to establish or maintain, but they have generally
been successful. A 2016 report by the Government Accounting Office, which reviewed
the cooperative programs of twelve American universities, found that the universities
“generally indicated that they experienced academic freedom,” while noting that

self- and internet censorship remains a problem.

In recent years, the outlook for these collaborations has deteriorated in line with
broader restrictions on academic freedom on Chinese campuses. In 2013, and
commensurate with CCP Central Committee Document No. 9, universities were
reportedly instructed to avoid discussing topics including “universal values” and civil
rights,?” and admonitions against teaching of Western values have continued. Since
2017, foreign university collaborative institutions have been required to institute
Communist Party committees and place a Party secretary on their management
boards.*8 In July 2018, the Ministry of Education ended 234, or one-fifth, of its
international university partnerships. More than twenty-five programs with
American universities were among them.”

The Chinese government has demonstrated a penchant for turning to these
collaborations as points of leverage when US universities have hosted the Dalai

Lama or held other events deemed politically sensitive or offensive to the Chinese
government. In such instances, existing collaborative exchange programs have been
suspended or put on hold, planned visits of university administrators have been
canceled, programs between university institutes and centers have been suspended,
and Chinese students wishing to study at these US institutions have been counseled
to go elsewhere. Such punitive actions resulting from campus visits by the Dalai Lama
have been taken against Emory University, the University of Maryland, the University
of California-San Diego, and others. In the case of the University of Maryland, which
hosted the Dalai Lama in 2013, there was temporary fallout, and then following the
2017 graduation incident the Chinese government again halted cooperation, seriously
damaging one of the most extensive exchange programs with China.

Section 4

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020506
