How to Teach the Twelve Cognitive Processes 131

a hero is and what leadership is, and they can determine for them-
selves who they know or have seen who is good at both. Again, real
experiences and discussions are how one learns to think about this,
but it must be done in an environment of possible truths, not prede-
termined truths. One doesn’t create a nation of people who can think
by telling them what they should think. Kids know who is the leader
among them. They should learn to discuss what it is about their leader
that makes them want to follow. This is difficult discussion to have
with a 6-year-old, but it gets easier with age.

Once again, asking kids to make judgments isn’t that unusual.
Here is a remark from a parenting book that I happened upon:

When adults praise their kids for smart judgments, the kids glow.
But here’s the clincher: kids earn more and more freedom and
independence when parents trust their judgments more and
more.®

The issue here is, yet again, not whether kids make judgments, but
whether they are taught, as a central part of what they study, how to
make judgments.

The cognitive processes depend on reasoning from evidence in a
way that makes sense. This is not something people are naturally good
at. They often exhibit faulty reasoning. Practicing reasoning means
practicing within particular domains of knowledge. Reasoning is the
same process no matter what you are reasoning about, but we don’t
reason about nothing. Learning the actual facts is important, but it
is the idea that this is important that has sent the school systems on
the wrong path. Academics study the facts, as well they should, but
they also teach the facts, which is a grievous error. How to determine
the facts and how to determine their effects on a situation is what the
processes of diagnosis, planning, and causation are all about.

HOW TO TEACH INFLUENCE

This is yet another childhood skill. Children learn how to influence
their parents and their siblings and their friends very early on. Of
course, they may not learn these things in a good way. They might
learn that temper tantrums or bullying works very well.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023877
