Swiss equities

Preference: neutral

SMI (24 Oct): 6,627 (last publication: 6,540)
UBS View SMI (6-month target): 6,700

e We stay neutral on Swiss equities relative to global ones. Swiss companies are internationally well
diversified, with about 2/3 of revenues generated in the US and in emerging markets. This provides the
basis for solid revenue and earnings, despite economic weakness in Europe.

¢ Swiss companies are trying to mitigate concerns about global economic prospects and a strong Swiss
franc using tight cost controls. This should protect operating margins.

¢ While the Swiss franc remains overvalued, the currency is not longer a drag. In fact, after depreciating
since summer versus the USD and related currencies, Swiss companies’ earnings will show positive currency
translation and margin effects.

e Especially in an environment of low economic growth we like the properties of decent earnings growth,
solid balance sheets and a reasonable valuation.

4 Positive scenario SMI (6-month target): 7,500

e Eurozone economic growth is reaccelerating considerably, providing further relief to Swiss financials as
well as Swiss exporters. Defensive sectors would likely be left behind in a strong global relief rally. In this
scenario, we would expect the equity market P/E to be re-rated to 15x and earnings to grow by 5% over
the next six months.

& Negative scenario SMI (6-month target): 5,600

¢ The global economy slides into a recession. Despite being less dependent on the global business cycle,
Swiss companies will also feel the drop in global demand. In this scenario, corporate earnings are likely to
drop slightly over the next six months and we would expect the P/E to contract toward 12.0x.

Note: Scenarios refer to global economic scenarios (see slide 7)

What we're watching Why it matters

Economic indicators Key announcements of domestic economic indicators: Nov 1, Manufacturing

PMI index; Nov 30, KOF Swiss leading indicator;

Key Swiss monetary policy dates that could impact Swiss equities: Nov 1, SNB
meeting

Monetary and economic
policy

Corporate news Key corporate announcement dates: Oct 30, Geberit, Oerlikon, Straumann &

UBS; Oct 31, Lonza & Sika

2 UBS

Recommendations

Tactical (6 months)

e We favor large caps over small caps.

e We like stocks paying high and
sustainable dividends.

e Within defensives, we favor the
Healthcare and Consumer Staples
sectors.

e Among the cyclical companies, we
prefer those with a broad emerging-
markets exposure and/or cheap
valuation, including insurers.

Strategic (1 to 2 years)

e We favor leaders in regards to the two
key Swiss success factors: innovation and
globalization.

Swiss market relative to world
equities

30

2003 2005 2007 2009 2011

— SMI realized PIE MSCI World: realized PIE

Source: Thomsen Reuters, UBS, as of October 24, 2012

Note: Past performance is not an indication of future returns.

For further information please contact ClO's asset class specialist Stefan Meyer, stefan-r.meyer@ubs.com u

Please see important disclaimer and disclosures at the end of the document.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025264
