message on economic reform. It is likely, I believe, that the focus of the
general public will be moved to these critical economic reforms. (3) I repeat
a point I’ve made in the past, that because the mainstream media and most
scholars are still so skeptical of Mr Trump’s policies, the hurdle for him to
clear and impress positively is very low. Ironically, such general hostility
will probably work in favour of the Trump Administration. 5 days after the
surprise election victory, the press declared that Mr Trump’s transition plan
was in hopeless disarray, only for Mr Trump to announce one cabinet
appointment every day — ahead of the schedule of Presidents Obama and Bill
Clinton when they got elected. (4) We will likely see a less radical President
Trump. We have already seen this on various issues (the Wall, prosecuting
Ms Clinton), and my guess is that the trade policy will be more restrictive,
but the changes will be nuanced at the same time. The appointment of the
next Treasury Secretary will convey an important message. (5) I personally
think that various countries will likely adopt industrial policies, as a
substitute for slower trade globalization. Already, the UK’s PM May
announced an ambitious industrial strategy, with a focus on technology. The
government is committed to investing in R&D through the Industrial
Strategy Challenge Fund. Regular readers of our work should also know
that that is what I would recommend for Japan to consider. I just came back
from a trip to Singapore, and understand that the government there is also
struggling to find the best strategy to deal with the next phase of economic
development, now that the growth model based on trade and finance may be
coming to an end. I think the US should also contemplate its own industrial
policy. The title of this section is ‘economic Olympics’ to convey the notion
that the world is in competition, not just along the axes of cheapness of
labour and technology. There are different disciplines (analogous to the
various sports in Olympics) in which any country can excel, if the efforts are
appropriately focused. Instead of being mediocre in many events, countries
should seek to win the gold medal in their best events...

5%-plus nominal GDP growth in the US in 2017? There are several
inconsistencies in the market trends: (1) a strong dollar and strong US
equities; (2) protectionism and a strong dollar (Mexico, for example, has
gotten 10% cheaper so far this month, and China is also cheaper. The
greater the threats of protectionism against these countries, the cheaper are
their costs of production...); (3) higher yields and strong equities; (4) Mr
Trump does not like Chair Yellen or the Fed but he still needs and prefers
low interest rates. The only variable that can address these inconsistencies is
3-4% real economic growth and 5%-plus nominal GDP growth in the

US. While it is unlikely that 5% nominal GDP growth is sustained over
time, the atmospherics will stop the talk about ‘r-star’ and help support
interest rates in the US. 2017 may very well see 5%-plus nominal GDP

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026640
