Exclusive Agents

Mare D. Renard 213-955-6413
Vice Chairman
marc.renard@cushwake.com

Manfred W. Schaub 213-955-5128
Senior Director
manfred.schaub@cushwake.com

John C. Cushman Ill 213-629-6575
Chairman
john.cushman@cushwake.com

John Stinson (65) 6232 0878
Executive Managing Director
(65) 6232 0878
john.stinson@ap.cushwake.com

Ml CUSHMAN &
( WAKEFIELD

Cushman & Wakefield of California, Inc.
01 South Figueroa Street, Suite 4700
Los Angeles, California 90017

Lic: #955076

Geoffrey West 702-688-6936
Senior Director
gwest@comre.com

An independently owned and

COM M E RCE | alll CUSHMAN &

REAL ESTATE SOLUTIONS * COMRE.COM WAKEFIELD
Commerce Real Estate Solutions
3773 Howard Hughes Parkway, Suite
100S

Las Vegas, NV 89169

Confidentiality & Conditions

This is a confidential Offering Memorandum intended
solely for your limited use and benefit in determining
whether you desire to express any further interest in
the purchase of the 38.5-acre site (“the Property”).

This Offering Memorandum was prepared by
Cushman & Wakefield and Commerce Real Estate
Solutions (“Cushman & Wakefield”) and has been
reviewed by representatives of the owners of The
Property (“the Ownership”). It contains selected
information pertaining to the Property and does not
purport to be all-inclusive or to contain all of the
information that prospective purchasers may desire.
It should be noted that all information provided is
for general reference purposes only in that such
information is based on assumptions relating to the
general economy, competition, and other factors
beyond the control of Ownership and, therefore, is
subject to material variation. Additional information
and an opportunity to inspect the Property will be
made available to interested and qualified prospective
purchasers. Neither Ownership nor Cushman &
Wakefield nor any of their respective officers have
made any representation or warranty, express or
implied, as to the accuracy or completeness of this
Offering Memorandum, any of its contents, or any
other materials provided as a courtesy to facilitate
prospective purchaser’s own investigations of the
Property, and no legal commitments or obligations
shall arise by reason of this Offering Memorandum,
its contents or any further information provided by
Cushman & Wakefield regarding the Property.

It is essential that all parties to real estate transactions
be aware of the health, liability and economic impact
of environmental factors on real estate. Cushman &
Wakefield does not conduct investigations or analyses
of environmental matters and, accordingly, urges its
clients to retain qualified environmental professionals
to determine whether hazardous or toxic wastes
or substances (such as asbestos, PCB’s and other
contaminants or petro-chemical products stored in
underground tanks) or other undesirable materials
or conditions are present at the Property and, if so,
whether any health danger or other liability exists. Such
substances may have been used in the construction or
operation of buildings or may be present as a result of
previous activities at the Property.

Various laws and regulations have been enacted at
the federal, state and local levels dealing with the use,
storage, handling, removal, transport and disposal of

toxic or hazardous wastes and substances. Depending
upon past, current and proposed uses of the Property,
it may be prudent to retain an environmental expert to
conduct a site investigation and/or building inspection.
If such substances exist or are contemplated to be
used at the Property, special governmental approvals
or permits may be required. In addition, the cost
of removal and disposal of such materials may be
substantial. Consequently, legal counsel and technical
experts should be consulted where these substances
are or may be present.

Ownership and Cushman & Wakefield expressly
reserve the right, at their sole discretion, to reject any
or all expressions of interest or offers to purchase
the Property and/or terminate discussions with any
entity at any time with or without notice. Ownership
shall have no legal commitment or obligation to
any entity reviewing this Offering Memorandum or
making an offer to purchase the Property unless and
until a written commitment to purchase the Property
has been fully executed, delivered and approved
by Ownership and any conditions to Ownership’s
obligations thereunder have been satisfied or waived.
Except for representations and warranties expressly
set forth in such definitive, executed purchase and
sale agreement, Ownership makes and will make no
representations and warranties regarding the Property
and any prospective purchaser must rely entirely on
its own investigations and those of its agents and
consultants.

By receipt of this Offering Memorandum, you agree
that this Offering Memorandum and its contents are of
a confidential nature, that you will hold and treat it in
the strictest confidence, and that you will not disclose
this Offering Memorandum or any of its contents to
any other entity without the prior written authorization
of Ownership nor will you use this Offering
Memorandum or any of its contents in any fashion or
manner detrimental to the interest of Ownership or
Cushman & Wakefield.

The terms and conditions stated in this section will relate
to all of the sections of the Offering Memorandum as
if stated independently therein. If, after reviewing this
Offering Memorandum, you have no further interest
in purchasing the Property at this time, kindly return
this Offering Memorandum to Cushman & Wakefield
at your earliest possible convenience. Photocopying or
other duplication is not authorized.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_
