Local News: West Palm Beach, Palm Beach County, Martin & St. Lucie Counties | The Palm Beach Post

It's very, very rare. I've never seen or heard of the procedure that was set up here. said McCabe, who has no
involvement in any Epstein litigation and is now a securities litigation attorney.

He's essentially avoiding federal prosecution because he can afford to pay that many lawyers to help those victims
review their cases.... If a person has no money he couldn't be able to strike a deal like this and avoid federal
prosecution.”

The back-room deal with federal prosecutors all the more interesting in light of the legal heavyweights who have
worked for Epstein, including Harvard professor Alan Dershowitz and Kenneth Starr of Clinton impeachment fame.
Lefcourt is a past president of the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers.

Epstein's local defense attorney, Jack Goldberger, issued a statement Friday saying he had fought the release of
the sealed agreement to protect the third parties named there. Mr. Epstein has fully abided by all of its terms and
conditions. He is looking forward to putting this difficult period in his life behind him. He is continuing his long
standing history of science philanthropy...”

Epstein ended up avoiding federal charges, and pleaded guilty in state court to felony solicitation of prostitution and
procuring a person under the age of 18 for prostitution. In July 2008, he was sentenced to 18 months in jail, and
later allowed out up to six days a week on work release.

Epstein left the jail in late July 2009 after serving not quite 13 months of the sentence, having earned gain time for
good behavior.

Palm Beach Police began investigating the international moneyman of mystery,” as the New York magazine
dubbed him, after they received a complaint from a relative of a 14-year-old girl who had given Epstein a naked
massage at his home on the Intracoastal Waterway.

Police sought and found in poor neighborhoods a variety of tall, thin, model-like young women, who told stories of
begin recruiting, then going to Epstein's home and massaging and stimulating him. They walked away with between
$200 and $1,000.

The investigation triggered tensions between police and prosecutors, with then-Chief Michael Reiter saying in a
May 2006 letter to then-State Attorney Barry Krischer that the chief prosecutor should disqualify himself.

| continue to find your office's treatment of these cases highly unusual,” Reiter wrote. He then asked for and got
the federal investigation that ended in the sealed deal.

The Jeffrey Epstein matter was an experience of what a many-million-dollar defense can accomplish, Reiter told
the Palm Beach Daily News upon his retirement.

http://www.palmbeachpost.com/pbcwest/content/local_news/epaper/2009/09/18/0918epstein.html

4/6/11 1:38 PM

Nea

Rick Heidy Vero Debra Robin
Audrey Gabriel Jeffrey Katie Jodie

Recent Activity
[ Login | You need to be logged into Facebook to
see your friends’ activity

Cerabino: Florida House GOP's ‘uterus’
ban: A free-speech battle is born

1,518 people shared this.

Foreclosure crisis: Fed-up judges crack
‘ down disorder in the courts

207 people shared this.

| | Facebook social plugin

POSTPIX » Latest news photos

a
e.. Aa 4

Massive earthquake and

tsunami devastate Japan

MAGES OF WAR in Iraq
and Afghanistan

Jeri Mucio Sworn in as Severe weather in Central,

South Florida

Mayor

Do Your Feet Hurt?
SELBY SHOES
561-969-9369

We'LI| Put Wow! Into Your Windows
IN THE SHADE INC
772-223-1212

Eree Hearing Test!
BELTONE
561-948-3049

Gourmet Meat in Delray
MARIO'S MEATS

561-499-7019

Do Your Feet Hurt?
SELBY SHOES
561-969-9369

Historic Archive
(1897 - 1988)

Search historic editions of The Palm Beach
Post, Palm Beach Daily News, Miami News and
more. It's free!

Page 2 of 3

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013417
