When I was noticed watching them, about fifteen of them came up to me
and began to beg for money and food. | was over taken by the poor,
hungry children and I felt sad for them all and wished I could help out
somehow. When the tide of kids washed away and the street went empty,
I was overcome with intrigue at these two little boys. Brothers I found out
later on, and there only toy was an empty can they were kicking to each
other in the middle of the street. Intelligent kids, they were able to speak
three different languages, including English and I was interested to ask
them about life here. They didn’t seem to notice or be bothered by their
poverty stricken lives. They told me about their school and parents and I
thought | had just heard the saddest story ever but they were accustomed
to living like that like I had been so accustomed to my degrading lifestyle
for so long.

1] was compelled to empty out the contents of my purse, giving them
over two thousand dollars in U.S currency. A passer-byer snapped a
photo of the kids and me for myself to take home as a personal souvenir
before they rushed home to proudly show there parents the money. I told
Jeffrey later on of my good deed and he couldn’t believe I’d give away
my money so carelessly. He told me | had set up their parents with
enough money to feed and shelter their family for a year. Wasn’t that a
good thing? I couldn’t believe it, not that | was well off or anything close
too it, but to realize how lucky I was and to not have compassion for the
lesser off, especially children of a third- world country, I wouldn’t be
human anymore. Then again what did I expect from someone who could
numerously steal another man’s daughter for the use of his own sexual
pleasure with great ease.

We went out to lunch the following day with Jeffrey’s team of
designers to wrap things up and after Jeffrey’s afternoon massage he went
to the palace to have a nap. When | was all alone I thought I’d go see the
culture of the local unique markets again and this time buy some trinkets
to bring home. I got to sightseeing and took pictures of the legs of lamb
hung over the blood drenched doorway over people’s homes as to warn
off evil spirits and the ghettos where the local villager’s called home. I
walked into many of the market’s stalls and saw the most peculiar
antiques, such as weaponry with the blood of it’s last victim stained on
it’s sharp blades and body pieces of various animal’s for the use of
religious sacrifices. I was more interested in the different culture and
respecting their ancient way of life with interest, instead of squirming like
a tourist and getting grossed out. I thought it was so educational and
enthralling in fact, [ ended up buying a few sacrificial trinkets to have
sent to my apartment in Palm Beach. Not to say that I wasn’t looking
forward to getting back to the luxuries of western civilization it was a bit
like camping, fun and adventurous but as equally dangerous and thrilling.

73

©] Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004206

When we left for the final destination of our trip | was looking forward to
eating normal food again, not one to stray for foreign dishes, I’m a more
of a cheeseburger and pizza kind of girl, a true sign of my American
heritage.

We landed at the Heathrow Int’l Airport and greeted by a driver that
would take us to Ghislane’s town house in London’s central that Jeffrey
had recently bought and refurbished as a gift for her. Emmy said “Good-
Bye” at the airport, leaving us to go to her hometown in the rural
countryside nearby to visit family for a six-week holiday from work. It
wasn’t a very long drive before we were in the heart of the city and at
Ghislane’s place. I thought it was a cheery townhouse that had character
and the historical pub in front of it and cobblestone streets only added a
unique charm to its presence. They were going out for dinner and invited
me along with them but seeing | was so exhausted from all the travelling
and looking a bit melancholy, I apologetically declined going out for
dinner that evening, I rather would be taking a few pills to catch up on
some needed sleep. “Are you sure your Okay”? Ghislane asked as she
showed me to my room, more considerate than she normally was but |
assured her that | was in absolute good health, just tired from all of the
recent jet lag. Without another word said she whisked off downstairs, to
the car where Jeffrey was waiting for her.

I took the liberty to call my parents house to say “Hello” and catch up
with them since I hadn’t been home at all for the holiday season this year,
always too busy working. They sounded really happy to hear from me
and my mom put me on the phone to talk to my brothers as well. | got to
tell them about my travels abroad and I had some cool tribal stuff from
Africa that I bought for them. They sounded so proud of me, all of them,
and why shouldn’t they be? In everyone’s convinced mind I was making
great money, travelling the world, and meeting new faces everywhere |
went, why should I spoil anyone’s delusions, especially mine. | took my
sleeping tablets and had a bath before falling into a deep and much
needed sleep.

The next morning I was woken up by Ghislane who | could tell was in a
chirpy mood by the way she paraded through my closed door saying
“Wake-up sleepy head” and opened the window’s shutters to let in the
bright sunlight, she had never done anything like this before and I knew
immediately something big was happening. She sat down on my bed as I
rolled over from my deep slumber and | was able to mutter for an
explanation as to why she was awake so early. “Besides the fact it is ten
o’clock in the morning and nearly time for brunch, we have a big day
planned out for you today.” She was waiting for my cue to ask her “What
are we doing”, when I did, she responded with a convincing enthusiasm
“We're going shopping for a new ensemble” she paused for a moment to

74

O Copyright Protected Material

GIUFFRE004207

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021181
