James PATTERSON

Over tea in his town house, she noticed, Epstein ate all the
finger food that had been put out for both of them. She found it

odd that the only book this supposedly brilliant man had left for

her to see was a paperback by the Marquis de Sade. And then

there was the call afterward from one of Epstein’s assistants — a
woman Ward did not know —who told her, “Jeffrey wanted me
to tell you that you looked so pretty.”

Ward is pretty, with fine English features and flowing blond

hair. She was also very pregnant then, with a bad case of morn-

ing sickness. She threw up often, sometimes in public, and these
clumsy advances on Epstein’s part only added to her ever-present
nausea. For a man who was supposedly brilliant, he'd struck her,

oddly, as not very smart.
“Epstein is charming, but he doesn’t let the charm slip into

his eyes,” she wrote. “They are steely and calculating, giving
some hint at the steady whir of machinery running behind them.
‘Let’s play chess, he said to me, after refusing to give an inter-

view for this article. ‘You be white. You get the first move.’ It was
an appropriate metaphor for a man who seems to feel he can win
no matter what the advantage of the other side. His advantage 1s
that no one really seems to know him or his history completely
or what his arsenal actually consists of. He has carefully engi-

neered it so that he remains one of the few truly baffling mystet

ies among New York's moneyed world. People know snippets, =

but few know the whole.”

The testimonials Epstein’s friends gave were glowing: 14

think we both possess the skill of seeing patterns,” Les Wexner

told her. “Jeffrey sees patterns in politics and financial markets,
ds. My skills are ©

and I see patterns in lifestyle and fashion tren

146

not in investment strateg
knows, his are not in fast
world trends as each of us
“Tm on my 20th boc
Epstein in 1997, “The onl
ily that I send drafts to is
But Ward also talked
questions and qualms ab«
in lawsuits against him. C
with him. One who had
board of Rockefeller Uniy
One powerful investn
conspicuous absence frot
ing desks don’t seem to
animals that big to not le:
Ward uncovered lega
view with the SEC, given
Stearns. She visited a fed:
at length with Steven Ho
made a major mistake in
told him to stay below the
accusations, about Epste
denied—and Ward kne

7 mastermind, was not to b
_ throughout the reporting

- concerned with what sh

with what she’d uncovere

Time and again, he '

i
have on the girls?”

,
Bt .

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022113
