te OK ok

I was gone for six months, and I returned in heartbreak. A relationship more important
than words can encompass had become -- after years of attempts -- impossible. I think it
was obvious. One friend told me vulnerability was all over me; /ike a scent, I thought,
and wondered if Richard could smell it. In worse shape than ever, I saw Richard and
laughed with an edge to my voice. I gave him doe-eyed looks, but deflected his interest
with doublespeak and icy tones. I wanted him, and I felt the rage returning. I hated and
sheltered behind the unclear verbal games we played. Furious and despairing, I refused to
chase him, yet I felt him everywhere. North.

I had to do something. My identity had somewhat solidified: I was into BDSM. I believed
it, I even accepted it, but I couldn't go on feeling like I did.

In looking around the Internet, I came upon a directory of Kink Aware Professionals,
including therapists who provided their names for people who needed to talk about
BDSM but feared judgment. I visited two. One listened to me silently, with a vaguely
sorrowful expression; he offered no feedback, and left me wondering why he'd listed his
name in the directory. He obviously didn't know what to do with me, and I got the uneasy
feeling that I worried him. Naturally, that didn't help at all.

Luckily, the other was everything I could have asked for -- open, patient, clearly
knowledgeable about BDSM. He looked straight at me and nodded understandingly when
I confessed the whole trail of events; he explained how common my experience was; he
gave me ideas about where to look for more information, but didn't try to put his own
preferences into our talks. Most people in your situation feel that they've broken a major
taboo, he said. A lot try to get away from BDSM. But I'm not hearing that from you.
You want to adjust, not escape. I nodded, and arranged to see him regularly.

Still, I don't think I could have put myself together again without two other things.

My close friend Andrew went after me at a drunken party. Shades of Richard, | might
have thought, but I never did. Andrew pinned me to the floor, laughed as I fought back,
hurt me, finally kissed me. When I asked in bewilderment what brought this on, he
confessed. When you were gone, I missed you, he whispered, and I've never missed
anyone like that before. He was as afraid of the darkness of BDSM as I had been, yet
he'd thought of me and found himself fantasizing. He wanted to try it with me, but first he
wanted to be sure that he and I would remain close -- wouldn't lose what we already had.

In everything Andrew told me -- everything we said to each other, laughing, almost in
tears, burying each other in embraces, happily drunk and clear-eyed in the morning -- I
found the things that were missing with Richard. Uncertain about BDSM, guarding his
and my boundaries, Andrew wanted to commit to me and to a devoted monogamous
relationship. Part of me counseled caution and withdrawal, but as my therapist laughingly
put it, Andrew was as tempting as an ice-cream factory. It was my chance to fall
straightforwardly in love.

Soon after that, I had to explain to my parents why I wanted a psychiatrist who was out-
of-network for my health insurance. I closed my eyes as my father asked why I needed
this specialist, what his focus was. S&M, I said shortly.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018456
