Jay Lefkowitz/New To Ami Sheth/New York/Kirkland-Ellis@K&E

York/Kirktand-Eli
Sent by: Kasin AndarsarvNee cc Eugene Kornel/New York/Kirkland-Ellis@K&E

York/Kirkland-Ellis bcc

12/12/2007 04:20 PM Subject Fw: Epstein

~— Forwarded by Kristin Andersen/New York/Kirkland-Ellis on 12/12/2007 04:19 PM —--

“Sloman, Jeff (USAFLS)
ns To “Jay Lefkowitz isn
11/27/2007 01:55 PM co Acosta, Alex (USAFLS) i

Subject Epstein

Jay,

Please accept my apologies for not getting back to you sooner but I was a little under the weather
yesterday. I hope that you enjoyed your Thanksgiving.

Regarding the issue of due diligence concerning Judge Davis’ selection, I’d like to make a few
observations. First, Guy Lewis has known for some time that Judge Davis was making
reasonable efforts to secure Aaron Podhurst and Bob Josephsberg for this assignment. In fact,
when I told you of Judge Davis’s selection during our meeting last Wednesday, November 21°,
you and Professor Dershowitz seemed very comfortable, and certainly not surprised, with the
selection. Podhurst and Josephsberg are no strangers to nearly the entire Epstein defense team
including Guy Lewis, Lili Ann Sanchez, Roy Black, and, apparently, Professor Dershowitz who
said he knew Mr. Josephsberg from law school. Second, Podhurst and Josephsberg have
long-standing stellar reputations for their legal acumen and ethics. It’s hard for me to imagine
how much more vetting needs to be done.

The United States has a statutory obligation (Justice for All Act of 2004) to notify the victims of
the anticipated upcoming events and their tights associated with the agreement entered into by
the United States and Mr. Epstein in a timely fashion. Tomorrow will make one full week since
you were formally notified of the selection. I must insist that the vetting process come to an end,
Therefore, unless you provide me with a good faith objection to Judge Davis’s selection by COB
tomorrow, November 28, 2007, I will authorize the notification of the victims. Should you give
me the go-ahead on Podhurst and Josephsberg selection by COB tomorrow, I will simultaneously
send you a draft of the letter. I intend to notify the victims by letter after COB Thursday,

November 29. Thanks,

Jeff

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012654
