potentials, which limits their spacing to a few 10s per second. It is probably
no accident that the “frame rate,” at which we can distinguish that movies are
actually a sequence of stills, is about 40 per second. Thus, electronic
processing is close to a billion times faster.

e Size: The linear dimension of a typical neuron is about 10 microns.
Molecular dimensions, which set a practical limit, are about 10,000 times
smaller, and artificial processing units are approaching that scale. Smallness
makes communication more efficient.

e Stability: Whereas human memory 1s essentially continuous (analog),
artificial memory can incorporate discrete (digital) features. Whereas analog
quantities can erode, digital quantities can be stored, refreshed, and
maintained with complete accuracy.

e Duty Cycle: Human brains grow tired with effort. They need time off to take
nourishment and to sleep. They carry the burden of aging. Most profoundly:
They die.

e Modularity (open architecture): Because artificial information processors can
support precisely defined digital interfaces, they can readily assimilate new
modules. Thus, if we want a computer to “see” ultraviolet or infrared or
“hear” ultrasound, we can feed the output from an appropriate sensor directly
into its “nervous system.” The architecture of brains is much more closed and
opaque, and the human immune system actively resists implants.

e Quantum readiness: One case of modularity deserves special mention,
because of its long-term potential. Recently physicists and information
scientists have come to appreciate that the principles of quantum mechanics
support new computing principles, which can empower qualitatively new
forms of information processing and (plausibly) new levels of intelligence.
But these possibilities rely on aspects of quantum behavior which are quite
delicate and seem especially unsuitable for interfacing with the warm, wet,
messy enviroment of human brains.

Evidently, as platforms for intelligence, human brains are far from optimal. Still,
although versatile housekeeping robots or mechanical soldiers would find ready, lucrative
markets, at present there is no machine that approaches the kind of general-purpose
human intelligence those applications would require. Despite their relative weakness on
many fronts, human brains have some big advantages over their artificial competitors.
Let me mention five:

e Three-dimensionality: Although, as noted, the linear dimensions of existing
artificial processing units are vastly smaller than those of brains, the procedure by
which they’re made—centered on lithography (basically, etching)—is essentially
two-dimensional. That is revealed visibly in the geometry of computer boards
and chips. Of course, one can stack boards, but the spacing between layers is
much larger, and communication much less efficient, than within layers. Brains
make better use of all three dimensions.

e Self-repair: Human brains can recover from, or work around, many kinds of
injuries or errors. Computers often must be repaired or rebooted externally.

59

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016279
