L£/0 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

sixty years monitored government communications. It had also kept
track of adversaries’ missile telemetry, submarine movements, and
nuclear proliferation.

The Snowden breach was not without precedent at the NSA.
There had been two Russian spies at the NSA during the Cold
War, Jack Dunlap and David Sheldon Boone, who took a limited
number of documents, but no one since the end of the Cold War
is known to have taken a single NSA classified document. Now an
insider had removed a vast number of the NSA’s documents. Many
of these documents were classified TS/SCI—“Top Secret, Sensitive
Compartmented Information”—which, as NSA secrets went, were
deemed the gold standard of espionage because they revealed the
sources used in communications intelligence. Whatever the assess-
ment of Snowden’s motivation, the single question that needed to be
answered was, what happened to these stolen files?

Recall the huge disparity between the number of documents that
the NSA calculated that Snowden compromised and the number of
documents he is known to have handed over to journalists in Hong

© Kong on a thumb drive. When the House and Senate Intelligence ©
Committees asked the NSA how many documents Snowden took,
the NSA could not come up with a definitive number despite having
employed a world-class team of experts to reconstruct the crime. The
NSA could say that 1.7 million documents had been selected in two
dozen NSA computers during Snowden’s brief tenure at Booz Allen
in 2013, including documents from the Department of Defense, the
NSA, and the CIA. Of these “touched” documents, some 1.3 million
had been copied and moved to another computer.

There was evidence that Snowden had used preprogrammed spi-
ders to find and index the documents. He had said that he took the
job at Booz Allen to get access to data that he copied. So as far as the
NSA was concerned, of course, the 1.3 million documents he cop-
ied and moved were considered compromised. On top of this haul,
Snowden had copied files while working at Dell in 2012. As a sys-
tem administrator there, he could download data without leaving a
digital trail. As previously mentioned, more than half the documents
actually published in newspapers had been taken during Snowden’s
time at Dell.

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 170 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019658
