32

CHAPTER TWO

The Crime Scene Investigation

“Any private contractor, not even an employee of the government, could walk into the NSA building, take
whatever they wanted, and walk out with it and they would never know.”

Edward Snowden, Moscow 2014

About 15 miles northwest of Honolulu on the island of Oahu in Hawaii, adjacent to the
sprawling Wheeler Air Force Base, is a 250,000 square foot man-made mound of earth and
reinforced concrete surrounded by an electrified fence. Inside the mound is a three story structure
originally built by the Air Force in the Second World War as a bomb-proof aircraft repair facility.
In the Cold War, it was modernized to withstand an enemy chemical, biological, radiological or
Electrical Magnetic Pulse attacks, and used by the Navy’s operation center for its Pacific fleet.
After the Cold War ended, the huge edifice was turned over to the NSA, which had been created
as an intelligence service to intercept the communications and signals of foreign countries after
World War II, a mission which included vacuuming into its giant computer arrays telephone
messages, missile telemetry, submarine signals and virtually everything on the electro-magnetic
spectrum of interest to the US defense department and US intelligence agencies. Because it
provided a valuable window on the activities of adversary nations in the Pacific region, it was able
to monitor the ballistic missile tests and submarine activities of China, North Korea and Russia.
As the NSA developed it, this Hawatian base became one of its primary regional bases for
gathering Asian communications intelligence. By 2013, the Kunia base, also called “the tunnel”
by its NSA workers, had a vast array of state-of-the-art technology, including 90 Cray
supercomputers arranged in a horseshoe configuration, used to decipher and make sense of the
intercepted signals from China, Russia and North Korea. At the heart of the Hawaiian complex
was a unit with both military and civilian employees. A large share of the civilians who ran the
computers worked under two-year contract to the NSA’s leading civilian contractor, Booz Allen
Hamilton.

Keith Alexander, the four-star general who headed the NSA from 2005 to 2014, first learned
about the impending story in the Guardian on June 4, 2013 while he was in Germany meeting
with its top intelligence officials. Janine Gibson, the Guardian’s American website editor had
notified the NSA it intended to break a story based on NSA the next day. It took NSA
counterintelligence less than 48 hours to determine that a civilian employee at the base from
which documents were stolen had not reported back to work on June 3rd, 2013. It also
determined he had lied on his application of a two-week medical leave and had flown to Hong
Kong. The missing man was Edward Joseph Snowden, a 29-year civilian employee of Booz Allen
Hamilton. At the time of the theft in May 2013, he was still being trained as an analyst at the
Threat Operations Center. Personnel records further showed that he had worked there for less

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020184
