Here's my short answer for those guys: If you know women who are submissive and/or
masochistic in bed, that means those particular women like being submissive and/or
masochistic in bed. It doesn't mean anything else.

You're still here? Ah, well. I figured that wouldn't satisfy. So here's a longer answer:

Firstly, if you're a straight dude, and you're drawing conclusions about all women based
on the women you get involved with, then stop. Just stop. Even if you have slept with
zillions of women, you don't actually know what all women want, because:

A) Your experience of women is limited to women who got involved with you. You
are screening for certain qualities, sometimes consciously, and sometimes unconsciously
or by accident. If you tend to enjoy the dominant role, for example, or if you use a
dominant style of flirtation, then you could be screening for submissive female partners,
whether you intend to or not.

B) Everyone has biases, including you. I love the old saying: When all you have is a
hammer, everything looks like a nail. If you have a bias towards seeing women as
sexually submissive (and you almost certainly do, because female sexual submission is a
hugely prevalent cultural trope), then you're more likely to see female submission in
places where it does not exist.

C) Women, like people of all genders, are demonstrably varied. You really don't think
non-submissive straight women exist? Why then, it must be so inconvenient when I point
you to the work of blatantly dominant women, huh? It's shocking, I know... next I'll be
telling you that queer and asexual women exist! (Not to mention women who switch
among roles -- from submissive to dominant, from sadistic to masochistic. I primarily go
for submissive masochism, but still, I myself play for both teams.)

The thing is, though... no matter how many holes I can poke in these dudes' anecdotal
data, I can't bring myself to worry like they do. Even if a brilliant, well-reviewed study
came out tomorrow and proved beyond a shadow of a doubt that 100% of women are
submissive masochists in bed, I wouldn't care. (I bet you my left ear this study will never
happen, but I'm just saying, even if it did, I wouldn't care.)

Let me say it really clearly: Even if most women are submissive masochists in bed
(and I'm not convinced most women are), there's nothing wrong with that. I don't
care.

Why don't I care? Because all this anxiety and argument about submission -- and in
particular, what it means for women to be submissive; whether all women are
submissive; whether women are inherently or biologically submissive; whether
BDSM is an orientation or not... this is all the wrong question.

I'll note that the research seems to indicate that more kinky women are submissive than
dominant. Of course, this doesn't necessarily indicate anything about the tastes of women
who don't identify as kinky. And it's probably biased by culture, in that everything from
fashion photos to romance novels emphasizes female submission and male dominance.
Within BDSM culture, female dominance and male submission are often disappeared,
much to the justified frustration of actual female dominants and male submissives. When

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018547
