individuals that make up societies. On
this view, the social level of organization
arises out of the interaction of lower-
level entities. But invisible forces
operate in both directions; one’s degree
of social integration or isolation (at the
higher level) can have profound
influence on one’s mental and physical
health (at the lower level). Just how
these forces operate—in both
directions—is one of the main themes of
this book.

A recurring theme is the human
need for connection. As we have
explored this fundamental need, it has
become clear that it can be satisfied in
part by connections not necessarily to
other human persons, but to other minds.
Since the minds of others are in part of
our own construction, connections to a
higher being, or to our pets, or even to a
transcendent order underlying the world,
can fulfill part of what we strive to
attain. Indeed, such non-human
attachments can share the character of
human connection: we can feel valued
by our pet (just as we can feel validated
in a social relationship), we can have an
intimate dyadic relationship with God
(just as we can be intimate with a close
friend), and we can feel a sense of
belonging to the universe (just as we can
feel that we belong to social group).
This explains how different, even
contradictory, notions of a relationship
to God, for instance, can lead different
people each to find meaning in such a
relationship: finding God on the
downtown bus versus encountering God
in the purposeful unfolding of the natural
order.

The ideas of symmetry,
complementarity, coordination, and co-
regulation also run through several of
our essays. Regulation of biological
systems is often maintained through

150

Page

paired systems of biological checks and
balances; when one system is activated,
the other tends to restore equilibrium.
For instance, one set of muscles flexes
the arm, and an opposing set extends it.
We have seen that the sympathetic and
parasympathetic components of the
autonomic nervous system—the system
that makes us breathe and that makes our
heart pump—operate in this way, and
that chronic stimulation of some
systems, like overstretched elastic bands,
lose their ability to spring back. The
notions of observing a behavior and
performing that behavior not only are
conceptually similar, they may be rooted
in a common set of neurological
structures which may, in turn, help us to
understand how we can perceive another
human being as being /ike us, but not us.
Anthropomorphism is the belief that
other minds mirror our own; this colors
the way we perceive the world and the
other actors in it, a mechanism that
allows us to simulate getting under the
skin of the other person.

Happiness and loneliness are
perceptions about our place in the world
that profoundly affect our physical
bodies and our social relationships.
Religious beliefs, too, can have profound
effects on health and physical well-
being, working through the same
biological mechanisms that in health
maintain equilibrium.

Unseen, yet powerful, forces
regulate social behavior. Empathy, for
instance, contributes to the regulation of
social interactions. Synchronous
behavior points to a phenomenon that
makes the individual feel subsumed by
the group, feeling part of a larger,
organic whole. These behaviors can be
as disparate as “the wave” at a sports
stadium or congregational prayer at a
church service. Shared feelings of

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021396
