Case 9:08-cv-80736-KAM Document 85-1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE

June 8, 2011

legislative history because the CVRA ‘is un-
ambiguous.’’ Response of the United States,
In re Antrobus, No. 08-4002, at 12 n.7 (10th Cir.
Feb. 12, 2008).

At the time that the Justice Department
filed this brief, no Court of Appeals agreed
with the Tenth Circuit. At the time, three
other Circuits had all issued unanimous rul-
ings that crime victims were entitled to reg-
ular appellate review. See In re W.R. Huff
Asset Mgmt. Co., 409 F.3d 555, 562 (2d Cir. 2005);
Kenna v. US. Dist. Ct. for the Cent. Dist. of Ca.,
435 F.3d 1011, 1017 (9th Cir. 2006); In re Walsh,
229 Fed.Appx. 58, at 60 (8rd Cir. 2007).

My next question for you is, given that the
Justice Department has an obligation to use
its ‘‘best efforts,’’ 18 U.S.C. §38771(c)(1), to af-
ford crime victims their rights, how could
the Department argue in Antrobus (and later
cases) that the CVRA ‘‘unambiguously”’ de-
nied crime victims regular appellate protec-
tions of their rights when three circuits had
reached the opposite conclusion?

GOVERNMENT'S RIGHT TO ASSERT ERROR
DENIAL OF VICTIMS’ RIGHTS

To further bolster protection of crime vic-
tims’ rights, Congress also included an addi-
tional provision in the CVRA—$§3771(d)(4)—
allowing the Justice Department to obtain
review of crime victims’ rights issues in ap-
peals filed by defendants: ‘‘In any appeal in
a criminal case, the Government may assert
as error the district court’s denial of any
crime victim’s right in the proceeding to
which the appeal relates.’ 18 U.S.C.
§3771(d)(4). The intent underlying this provi-
sion was to supplement the crime victims’
appeal provision found in §3771(d)(3) by per-
mitting the Department to also help develop
a body of case law expanding crime victims’
rights in the many defense appeals that are
filed. It was not intended to in any way nar-
row crime victims’ rights to seek relief
under §3771(d)(3). Nor was it intended to bar
crime victims from asserting other remedies.
For instance, it was not intended to block
crime victims from taking an ordinary ap-
peal from an adverse decision affecting their
rights (such as a decision denying restitu-
tion) under 28 U.S.C. §1291. Crime victims
had been allowed to take such appeals in var-
ious circuits even before the passage of the
CVRA. See, e.g., United States v. Kones, 77
F.3d 66 (8rd Cir. 1996) (crime victim allowed
to appeal restitution ruling); United States v.
Perry, 360 F.8d 519 (6th Cir. 2004) (crime vic-
tims allowed to appeal restitution lien
issue); Doe v. United States, 666 F.2d 43, 46 (4th
Cir. 1981) (crime victim allowed to appeal
rape shield ruling).

As I explained at the time the CVRA was
under consideration, this provision supple-
mented those pre-existing decisions by
“allow[ing] the Government to assert a vic-
tim’s right on appeal even when it is the de-
fendant who seeks appeal of his or her con-
viction. This ensures that victims’ rights are
protected throughout the criminal justice
process and that they do not fall by the way-
side during what can often be an extended
appeal that the victim is not a party to.’’ 150
Conc. REC. $4270 (Apr. 22, 2004) (statement of
Sen. Kyl).

I have heard from crime victims’ advocates
that the Department has not been actively
enforcing this provision. Indeed, these advo-
cates tell me that they are unaware of even
a single case where the Department has used
this supplemental remedy. My final ques-
tion: Is it true that the Department has
never used this provision in even a single
case in the more than six years since the
CVRA was enacted?

Sincerely,
JON KYL,
U.S. Senator.

HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES

SERGEANT VORASACK T. XKAYSANA

Mr. BENNET. Mr. President, it is
with a heavy heart that I rise today to
honor the life and heroic service of
SGT Vorasack T. Xaysana. Sergeant
Xaysana, assigned to the Headquarters
and Headquarters Company, 2nd Bat-
talion, based in Fort Hood, TX, died on
April 10, 2011. Sergeant Xaysana was
serving in support of Operation New
Dawn in Kirkuk, Iraq. He was 30 years
old.

A native of Westminster, CO, Ser-
geant Xaysana enlisted in the Army in
2005. During over 6 years of service, he
distinguished himself through his cour-
age and dedication to duty. Sergeant
Xaysana’s exemplary service quickly
won the recognition of his commanding
officers. He earned, among other deco-
rations, the Iraq Campaign Medal, the
Global War on Terrorism Service
Medal, and the Army Good Conduct
Medal.

Sergeant Xaysana worked on the
front lines of battle, serving in the
most dangerous areas of Iraq. Mark
Twain once said, ‘‘The fear of death fol-
lows from the fear of life. A man who
lives fully is prepared to die at any
time.” Sergeant Xaysana’s service was
in keeping with this sentiment—by
selflessly putting country first, he
lived life to the fullest. He lived with a
sense of the highest honorable purpose.

At substantial personal risk, he
braved the chaos of combat zones
throughout Iraq. Though his fate on
the battlefield was uncertain, he
pushed forward, protecting America’s
citizens, her safety, and the freedoms
we hold dear. For his service and the
lives he touched, Sergeant Xaysana
will forever be remembered as one of
our country’s bravest.

To Sergeant Xaysana’s parents,
Thong Chanh and Manithip, and to his
entire family, I cannot imagine the
sorrow you must be feeling. I hope
that, in time, the pain of your loss will
be eased by your pride in Vorasack’s
service and by your knowledge that his
country will never forget him. We are
humbled by his service and his sac-
rifice.

EST

GRAZING IMPROVEMENT ACT

Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I rise
today to submit for the REcoRD an ar-
ticle written by Karen Budd-Falen and
published May 28, 2011, in the Wyoming
Livestock Journal. The article’s title is
“Leveling the Playing Field: Support
for the Grazing Improvement Act of
2011.”’

The title of the article is instructive.
Anyone living and working in rural
communities knows the playing field is
not level. The National Environmental
Policy Act has become the preferred
tool to delay and litigate grazing per-
mit renewals for American ranchers.

Livestock grazing on public lands has
a strong tradition in Wyoming and all
Western States. Ranchers are proud

Entered on FLSD Docket 06/17/2011 Page 4 of 4

S3609

stewards of the land, yet the permit-
ting process to renew their permits is
severely backlogged due to litigation
aimed at eliminating livestock from
public land.

During times of high unemployment
and increasing food prices, we need to
be encouraging jobs in rural economies.
We need to be fostering an environ-
ment to raise more high quality, safe,
American beef and lamb; not litigating
less.

That is why I introduced the Grazing
Improvement Act of 2011. This legisla-
tion will provide the certainty and sta-
bility public grazing permit holders
desperately need in order to continue
supporting rural jobs, providing
healthy food, and maintaining open
spaces for recreation and wildlife.

It is time to help level the playing
field for hard working ranching fami-
lies across the West. Their livelihood
should not be held hostage by litiga-
tion and anti-grazing special interest
groups. I thank my colleagues, Sen-
ators ENZI, CRAPO, HATCH, HELLER,
RIScH, and THUNE, in supporting ranch-
ing families and this legislation.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent to have printed in the REcorpD the
article to which I referred.

There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:

[From the Wyoming Livestock Roundup,

May 28, 2011)

LEVELING THE PLAYING FIELD: SUPPORT FOR
THE GRAZING IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2011
(By Karen Budd-Falen)

If jobs and the economy are the number
one concern for America, why are rural com-
munities and ranchers under attack by rad-
ical environmental groups and overzealous
federal regulators?

America depends upon the hundreds of
products that livestock provide, yet radical
groups and oppressive regulations make it
almost impossible for ranchers to stay in
business. Opposition to these jobs comes in
the form of litigation by radical environ-
mental groups to eliminate grazing on public
lands, radical environmental group pressure
to force “voluntary” grazing permit buy-
outs from “willing sellers,’’ and holding per-
mittees hostage to the court deference given
to regulatory ‘‘experts.” The playing field is
not level and the rancher is on the losing
side. The Grazing Improvement Act of 2011
will level the playing field. I urge your sup-
port.

The Grazing Improvement Act of 2011 does
the following:

1. Term of Grazing Leases and Permits.
Both BLM and Forest Service term grazing
permits are for a 10-year term. This bill ex-
tends that term to 20 years. This extension
does not affect either the BLM’s or Forest
Service’s ability to make interim manage-
ment decisions based upon resource or other
needs, nor does it impact the preference
right of renewal for term grazing permits or
leases.

2. Renewal, Transfer and Reissuance of
Grazing Leases and Permits. This section
codifies the various ‘‘appropriation riders”
for the BLM and Forest Service requiring
that permits being reissued, renewed or
transferred continue to follow the existing
terms and conditions until the paperwork is
complete. Thus, the rancher is not held hos-
tage to the ability of the agency to get its

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012721
