US rates

Duration preference: neutral

US 10-year (24 Oct): 1.8% (last month: 1.8%)
UBS view US 10-year (6-month forecast): 2.0%
e US 10-year yields traded largely sideways within a narrow range. Improving domestic economic and sentiment data
was balanced by concerns of the elections/fiscal cliff weighing on the US economy. However, both the ECB and the
Fed have provided substantial and credible backstops that significantly reduce tail risks. This reduces the flight to
quality and the risk discount placed on Treasuries in the event of a re-escalation of the European debt crisis. This
represents a clear floor with little chance of retesting the historical lows of July (~1.4%). In addition, the Fed's
willingness to fall behind the curve in support of the domestic labor market will increase inflation expectations over
the medium term. This implies steeper yield curves.
¢ In addition, the credible and conditional central bank backstops have already improved sentiment and should help
to kick-start growth if politicians provide the necessary tailwinds. Yields will then return to their slightly higher,
previously stable ranges over a six-month horizon (1.8%-2.1%).
e At the same time, US yields should be capped, as the US economy continues to be vulnerable to spillover effects
from the Eurozone. Structurally weak growth which will be dampened by the upcoming US fiscal consolidation, will
add to volatility and limit the increase in yields.

A Positive scenario for US bonds US 10-year (6-month range): 1.4-1.6%
¢ US fiscal deleveraging beyond our expectations weighs on the cyclical recovery and is a drag on yields.

° A re-escalation of the European debt crisis burdens yields. Implementation risks in the ECB framework remain, given
that Italy and Spain have not yet made the necessary application, which will result in the peripheral spread widening.
At the same time, Greece is likely to announce a second debt restructuring and leave the Eurozone next year.

¢ The labor market fails to recover, increasing the likelihood of even more MBS purchases or alternative measures, and
yields stay low or fall further.

& Negative scenario for US bonds US 10-year (6-month range): 2.1-2.5%
¢ If the ECB buying of short-dated Spanish and Italian sovereign bonds increases risk appetite, it would reduce the
flight to quality more substantially and this represents an upside risk to our forecasts.

Recommendations

Tactical (6 months)

e Weak global growth momentum, ongoing
bond market support from central banks
and the lingering euro crisis are likely to
keep yields at extraordinarily low levels for
some time. Tactically, we suggest a neutral
duration position.

Strategic (1 to 2 years)

e Yields have significant upside potential
over the next couple of years given the
extraordinarily low current levels of real
interest rates in particular. Thus clients
with a longer time horizon should focus
on bonds with short and medium
maturities.

USD 10-year yields and forecasts

5%

4%

e If EU leaders make progress toward increased fiscal integration, and US growth recovers with a rapidly improving paul
labor market, then yields could rise more significantly. i \, yA,
Note: Scenarios refer to global economic scenarios (see slide 7) 3% My Why
Wy \
1 7 . \ rt
What we're watching Why it matters is, Mol,
Fed policy The Fed's assessment of the labor market determines its stance on quantitative easing me
and is key for yields. Key dates: Nov 2, NFP; Dec 11 Fed FOMC meeting 1%
Inflation expectations Current yields do not reflect low real-interest rates, but rather normal inflation
expectations. Inflation expectations increased on the back of the latest Fed action, ed
A ‘ ‘ . 6 Oct-09 Oct-10 Oct-11 Oct-12 Oct-13
leading to more upside risk for long maturity yields.
US presidential The US presidential election will guide fiscal spending for the coming years. forecasts US 10¥
elecienihises| cliff & debt Source: Bloomberg, UBS, as of October 15, 2012
coud Note: Past performance is not an indication of future returns.
ba UBS For further information please contact ClO's asset class specialist Daniela Steinbrink Mattei, daniela.steinbrinkmattei@ubs.com 24

Please see important disclaimer and disclosures at the end of the document.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025271
