then I would either put myself in a mental institution or commit suicide. And thus I lived,
waiting and watching to see if I was turning into someone that I needed to shoot.

Fortunately, Wiseman found partners who were open to exploring S&M with him, and
went on to write extensively about safety and consent and communication within S&M.
Trying to communicate in an egalitarian way is arguably the most complicated part of
any S&M encounter; as Scootah told me, There are certainly elements that could
potentially unbalance a relationship in my favor. I'm a big reasonably strong guy. I do
usually make more money than my partners. I also have this whole sense of position in
the local S&M community. I mostly just try to be aware of those things. I try to be very
careful about not taking advantage of that and negotiate clearly and not pressure people.”

There are lots of ways to do clear negotiation, including asking open-ended questions
before any S&M actually happens: What are you interested in? Could you go into that
more? There's also a huge emphasis on talking through the S&M encounter afterwards,
as part of the post-S&M processing we call aftercare. As another gent who goes by Noir
said: It really helped me to have a few great, feminist S&M partners. Having that echo
of ‘it's OK, I want this,' as well as the honest feedback when I do wrong really helped
shape how I experience S&M, and with who. It's meant I learned how better to read and
grasp the people in my, er, grasp.”

Noir also noted, I strive to use dominance and submission as a tool for helping my
partners become stronger, in ways that also feed my S&M preferences. For example, I
tend to form long-term interests with women who want a 'safe space’ to extend and
explore their ability to be sluts, with all that can imply. But in the process, we also
explore how becoming more confident in one's sexuality also can reflect into everyday
life. Also, just coming to spaces in the S&M community can be a goldmine of
information. All a dominant man has to do is read, listen, open up and understand. One
thing I learned was that my fears about reinforcing our messed-up society were shared by
women into kink... but also that my ways of approaching the topic, as 'oh, we're so
controlled by society!' were themselves pushing too much agency out of women's
choices. There's a balance there that we guys who identify as both feminist and kinky
have to respect, and that can come from listening to feminist women struggle with these
issues, themselves.

The alternative sexuality advocate Pepper Mint (who has his own blog) told me that in
terms of putting gender on his experiences, I am a bit genderqueer, and I personally
experience dominance with either a feminine or masculine vibe from moment to moment.
Certain activities -- like punching -- feel masculine, while others -- like whipping --
feminine in the moment. Also, I switch, meaning that I don't always take the dominant
role. Strangely, my most clearly masculine S&M activity is masochism. I always feel
very manly while taking pain. I don't think I can clearly explain why these things have
attached to gender in my head, though presumably I'm being affected by cultural tropes to
some extent.”

The consensus in general was that dominance, whether masculine or feminine, is
something that happens in an encounter... not outside it. As Pepper put it, New guys
often want to play hard or do hardcore things, and will often boast and swagger. Kinky
women almost always recognize this as dangerous bullshit. Learn to chill out and not take

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018552
