Arch gift card for free McDonalds hamburgers. A bargain is a bargain,
rich people run around like lunatics, collecting gifts for their
housekeepers. Among the shoppers are Steven and Heather Mnuchin,
Viacom’s Deborah and Philippe Dauman, Tamara Mellon, Christine Taylor
and Ben Stiller, Cate Blanchette, Susan and Robert Downey,Jr., and Debra
and Hugh Jackman.

Next stop is The Weinstein Company’s Pre-Oscar party at the Soho House,
sponsored by MontBlanc, celebrating their new charity partnership and $1
million dollar donation to the Princess Grace Foundation-USA. Long gone
are the funky Miramax Saturday night parties where nominees spoofed
their own films in homemade costumes and ad-libbed hilarious skits.
Grown men would dress as Anna Paquin and play the piano in hopes of
winning a Max Award.

There is social anxiety at the Soho House garage entrance. Guests
patiently wait as super stars whisk by. A four hundred pound gorilla
refuses to let me on the elevator until I spot Benny Medina. Once on, I
see the radiant Jennifer Lopez in the corner and remind her we met on
Len Blavatnik’s yacht in Cannes. She graciously pretends to know me. Her
manager, Benny Medina is kicking me.

I slip into Colin Firth’s booth by the front bar to have a tete-a-tete
with him and his wife Livia Giuggioli about tomorrow night. Jokingly, I
suggest when he wins to say, “I’m speechless”. Colin patiently assures
me many people, far more clever than I, have already mentioned this. He
then says that others are waging bets on whether he might subconsciously
stutter. I grill him about his wardrobe, assuming he will be wearing a
new Tom Ford tuxedo. He tells me both he and Ford will be in older
models as Ford only designs classics. I tell him I made director Charles
Ferguson, front runner for the financial documentary “Inside Job” spend
$6,000 dollars last week for a new Tom Ford tuxedo.

In the back room Jennifer Lopez is now seated with Weinstein’s wife
Georgina Chapman. Nominee Helena Bonham Carter, her husband Tim Burton
and her mother Elena circulate. Celebs have now drifted over from The
Night Before Party. The star power includes Adrien Brody, Mary-Kate and
Ashley Olsen, Cameron Diaz, Camilla Belle, Chace Crawford, Claire Danes
and Hugh Dancy, Darren Aronofsky, Emma Stone, Jaime Foxx, director John
Wells, Kerry Washington, Piers Morgan, Rachel Zoe, Russell Simmons, Sean
Parker, Sir Ben Kingsly, Zack Braff , Michelle Williams and Leonardo
Dicaprio with Bar Rafaeli. “Speech” filmmakers are functioning on high
anxiety.

Sunday, February 27, 2011

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012697
