Indeed, Roberts, with the Daily Mail being her prime outlet, emerges
as the most vocal accuser—and, in fact, the some total of the current story
and attention.

That is, there is no story without her and what is being billed as her
memoir of her “sex slavery” with Epstein, written ten years after the fact.
Along with the Dershowitz and Prince Andrew charges, Roberts puts, with
rather some narrative detail, both Clinton and Al and Tipper Gore on the
island—and in fact Clinton, apparently with the acquiescence of the Secret
Service, flying in a helicopter piloted by Epstein’s girlfriend, an amateur
pilot. Epstein’s lawyers say that not only have Clinton and the Gores never
been to the Epstein Island, but that there is easy proof of this in secret
service records, which would seem to make the memoir opportunistic or
hallucinatory fiction.

The FBI, in a recent filing, has argued that Roberts should not be
party to the suit against the government because she refused to cooperate
with the government in its investigation in 2007, hence has no standing as a
victim. (At the same time, the FBI included her on the list of 40 victims with
whom it mandated Epstein reach a settlement.)

It is hard to find a more hyperbolic intersection of media and lawyers
then in Epstein’s case.

Edwards, over the six years of his law suit, tries to depose Clinton,
Donald Trump, and Dershowitz—almost all of his targets coming directly
from the original Vanity Fair and New York Magazine articles about
Epstein.

In addition to Prince Andrew as a British hot button, first connected to
Epstein through Roberts’ interview with the Daily Mail in 2010, Clinton
takes on a new role as Hillary spoiler through his connection, real or
imagined, to Epstein and sex slaves.

Almost everybody identified in any story about Epstein is approached
by other media seeking to write about Epstein, often with financial
incentives.

No new stories or even new details emerge. Every aspect of the
current story is based on court filings describing events that may or may not
have taken place prior to 2007. It’s as though a kind of ground-hog day of
moral opprobrium, a desire to repeat and to savor a new the old details.

A recent Reuters story identified a charity that Epstein has not given
money to in 15 years that said if he does give again, they would give it back.

The world cleanly divides, with Epstein (and friends) behind secure
walls and the Mail and social media and upholders of new norms ever more

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022764
