the peak of hyperinflation, and just in time for the worst drought in a decade. For these same reasons,
some people would consider his timing quite poor from a more selfish survival standpoint.

He had also missed the memo. The national menu had changed, and they were out of luxuries like
bread and clean water. He would be surviving for four months on a slushlike concoction of corn meal
and spinach. Not what most of us would order at the movie theater.

“WOW,I CAN SURVIVE.”

J ean-Marc had passed the point of no return, but it didn’t matter. After two weeks of adjusting to the

breakfast, lunch, and dinner (Mush a la Ghana), he had no desire to escape. The most basic of foods and
good friends proved to be the only real necessities, and what would seem like a disaster from the outside
was the most life-affirming epiphany he’d ever experienced: The worst really wasn’t that bad. To enjoy
life, you don’t need fancy nonsense, but you do need to control your time and realize that most things
just aren’t as serious as you make them out to be.

Now 48, Jean-Marc lives in a nice home in Ontario, but could live without it. He has cash, but could
fall into poverty tomorrow and it wouldn’t matter. Some of his fondest memories still include nothing
but friends and gruel. He is dedicated to creating special moments for himself and his family and is
utterly unconcerned with retirement. He’s already lived 20 years of partial retirement in perfect health.

Don’t save it all for the end. There is every reason not to.

=» Q&A: QUESTIONS AND ACTIONS

I am an old man and have known a great many troubles, but most of them never happened.
— MARK TWAIN

L, you are nervous about making the jump or simply putting it off out of fear of the unknown, here is

your antidote. Write down your answers, and keep in mind that thinking a lot will not prove as fruitful or
as prolific as simply brain vomiting on the page. Write and do not edit—aim for volume. Spend a few
minutes on each answer.

1. Define your nightmare, the absolute worst that could happen if you did what you are
considering. What doubt, fears, and “what-ifs” pop up as you consider the big changes you can—
or need—to make? Envision them in painstaking detail. Would it be the end of your life? What
would be the permanent impact, if any, on a scale of 1-10? Are these things really permanent?
How likely do you think it is that they would actually happen?

2. What steps could you take to repair the damage or get things back on the upswing, even if
temporarily? Chances are, it’s easier than you imagine. How could you get things back under
control?

3. What are the outcomes or benefits, both temporary and permanent, of more probable

scenarios? Now that you’ve defined the nightmare, what are the more probable or definite positive
outcomes, whether internal (confidence, self-esteem, etc.) or external? What would the impact of
these more-likely outcomes be ona scale of 1-10? How likely is it that you could produce at least
a moderately good outcome? Have less intelligent people done this before and pulled it off?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013827
