96 5 A Generic Architecture of Human-Like Cognition

data, rather than mainly embodying speculative notions; however, given the current state of
knowledge, this could not be done to a complete extent, and there is still some speculation
involved here and there.

While based on understandings of human intelligence, the integrative diagram is intended to
serve as an architectural outline for human-like general intelligence more broadly. For example,
CogPrime is explicitly not intended as a precise emulation of human intelligence, and does many
things quite differently than the human mind, yet can still fairly straightforwardly be mapped
into the integrative diagram.

The integrative diagram focuses on structure, but this should not be taken to represent a
valuation of structure over dynamics in our approach to intelligence. Following chapters treat
various dynamical phenomena in depth.

5.2 Key Ingredients of the Integrative Human-Like Cognitive
Architecture Diagram

The main ingredients we’ve used in assembling the integrative diagram are as follows:

e Our own views on the various types of memory critical for human-like cognition, and the
need for tight, synergetic interactions between the cognitive processes focused on these

e Aaron Sloman’s high-level architecture diagram of human intelligence [Slo01], drawn from
his CogAff architecture, which strikes me as a particularly clear embodiment of modern
common sense regarding the overall architecture of the human mind. We have added only
a couple items to Sloman’s high-level diagram, which we felt deserved an explicit high-level
role that he did not give them: emotion, language and reinforcement.

e The LIDA architecture diagram presented by Stan Franklin and Bernard Baars [BF 09].
We think LIDA is an excellent model of working memory and what Sloman calls reactive
processes, with well-researched grounding in the psychology and neuroscience literature.
We have adapted the LIDA diagram only very slightly for use here, changing some of
the terminology on the arrows, and indicating where parts of the LIDA diagram indicate
processes elaborated in more detail elsewhere in the integrative diagram.

e The architecture diagram of the Psi model of motivated cognition, presented by Joscha
Bach in [Bac09] based on prior work by Dietrich Dorner [Dér02]. This diagram is presented
without significant modification; however it should be noted that Bach and Dorner present
this diagram in the context of larger and richer cognitive models, the other aspects of which
are not all incorporated in the integrative diagram.

e James Albus’s three-hierarchy model of intelligence [AMO1], involving coupled perception,
action and reinforcement hierarchies. Albus’s model, utilized in the creation of intelligent
unmanned automated vehicles, is a crisp embodiment of many ideas emergent from the field
of intelligent control systems.

e Deep learning networks as a model of perception (and action and reinforcement learning),
as embodied for example in the work of Itamar Arel [ARC09] and Jeff Hawkins [HB06]. The
integrative diagram adopts this as the basic model of the perception and action subsystems
of human intelligence. Language understanding and generation are also modeled according
to this paradigm.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013012
