In Williams v. Pennsylvania (2016), the court held that a state judge’s potential bias violated due

process because he had played a role, a quarter-century earlier, in prosecuting the death-row inmate
whose habeas corpus petition he was hearing. The passage of time and involvement of others do not
vitiate the taint but heighten “the need for objective rules preventing the operation of bias that might
otherwise be obscured,” the justices wrote. A single biased individual “might still have an influence

that, while not so visible . . . is nevertheless significant.”

In addition to the numerous anti-Trump messages uncovered by the inspector general, there is a strong
circumstantial case—including personnel, timing, methods and the absence of evidence—that

Crossfire was initiated for political, not national-security, purposes.

It was initiated in defiance of a longstanding Justice Department presumption against investigating
campaigns in an election year. And while impartiality 1s always required, a 2012 memo by then-
Attorney General Eric Holder emphasizes that impartiality is “particularly important in an election
year,” and “politics must play no role in the decisions of federal prosecutors or investigators regarding
any investigations. ... Law enforcement officers and prosecutors may never select the timing of
investigative steps or criminal charges for the purpose of affecting any election, or for the purpose of

giving an advantage or disadvantage to any candidate or political party.”

Strong evidence of a crime can overcome this policy, as was the case with the bureau’s investigation
of Mrs. Clinton’s private email server, which began more than a year before the 2016 election. But
Crossfire was not a criminal investigation. It was a counterintelligence investigation predicated on the
notion that Russia could be colluding with the Trump campaign. There appears to have been no
discernible evidence of Trump-Russia collusion at the time Crossfire was launched, further reinforcing

the notion that it was initiated “for the purpose” of affecting the presidential election.

The chief evidence of collusion is the hacking of the Democratic National Committee’s servers. But
nothing in the public record suggests the Trump campaign aided that effort. The collusion narrative
therefore hinges on the more generic assertion that Russia aimed to help Mr. Trump’s election, and
that the Trump campaign reciprocated by embracing pro-Russian policies. Yet despite massive
surveillance and investigation, there’s still no public evidence of any such exchange—only that Russia

attempted to sow political discord by undermining Mrs. Clinton and to a lesser extent Mr. Trump.

Some members of the Trump team interacted with Russians and advocated dovish policies. But so did
numerous American political and academic elites, including many Clinton advisers. Presidential
campaigns routinely seek opposition research and interact with foreign powers. The Clinton campaign

funded the Steele dossier, whose British author paid Russians to dish anti-Trump dirt. The Podesta

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026494
