Bonds overview

Government bonds - Key points

¢ We expected government bond yields to move towards slightly higher ranges over the next 6 months,
as seen in late 201 1/early 2012. This is likely to have a slightly negative effect on most developed
government bond prices, and is likely to result in a total return around zero over this period.

¢ Price fluctuations in the month ahead could originate from developments in the Eurozone and the US.
They include the Troika report on Greece, Spanish local elections/referendum and the possible delayed
request for additional ECB support in Europe. In the US, the extent of the fiscal cliff is dependent on the
election outcome and the results from the debates in the subsequent lame duck session of congress.
While we expect the full cliff to be avoided, it poses a significant downside risk to domestic growth.

* Overall, we suggest keeping the duration close to neutral, as we expect global growth to remain
lackluster and central banks to continue supporting bond markets.

Corporate and emerging market bonds - Key points

¢ We maintain a preference for investment-grade (IG) and US high-yield (HY) corporate credit. A strong
(US) corporate sector, the ongoing moderate recovery of the US economy, determined central bank
support and a strong technical backdrop are likely to further support credit segments.

e Investment-grade corporate bonds have achieved a total return of more than 10% so far this year, at
remarkably low volatility. While absolute returns will likely be moderate in the next six months (1-2%),
the asset class should continue outperforming government bonds, offering higher liquidity than HY
bonds. We see the highest return potential in the lower-rated IG segments (BBB and A).

e US corporate bonds of lower credit quality (HY) remain fundamentally supported by solid balance
sheets and a benign US growth outlook. Given the low risk of default losses, valuations are attractive at
an effective yield of above 6%. For US HY, we expect mid single-digit total returns in the next six months.
US senior loans are an attractive alternative to traditional fixed income assets.

e Emerging market (EM) bonds should continue to benefit from better fundamentals than those of
developed markets over the medium term. However, valuations have now moved towards a fair level for
sovereign bonds (in USD) and we take profits on selected sovereign bond issuers. For EM corporate bonds
in USD, there is still some potential for spreads to trend lower in the quarters ahead, and we continue to
recommend this area as a ClO-preferred theme.

2 UBS

Preferences (6 months)

short duration

USD

EUR (DE)

GBP

JPY

CHF

CAD

AUD

Bonds total

Bnew

underweight

neutral

old

neutral

long duration

overweight

Government C1

bonds

Investment
grade
corporate
bonds

High yield
bonds

Emerging
market
bonds

Bnew

old

Source: UBS CIO WM Global Investment Office

23
For further information please contact ClO's asset class specialists Achim Peijan, achim.peijan@ubs.com and Daniela Steinbrink Mattei, daniela.steinbrinkmattei@ubs.com

Please see important disclaimer and disclosures at the end of the document.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025270
