Sandringham in 2000. The picture shows just how close she and Epstein were with Prince
Andrew

The girl is said to have been taken there by 18-year-old student Haley Robson, who claims in a sworn

statement that she was recruited at the age of 17 to provide the billionaire with a $200 nude massage.

One of the girls ‘cried hysterically’, according to a police report, as she recalled how she was recruited to

provide services for Epstein when she was 16.

She claims in a sworn statement that he introduced her to a woman whom he said he had brought from

Yugoslavia ‘to be his sex slave’.

Epstein was convicted in 2008 of soliciting sex from a minor - a minor in the US is someone younger than

18 - and served 13 months in prison.

Now, lawyers for four of Epstein's alleged victims are fighting to get a federal non-prosecution agreement
against Epstein thrown out so he can potentially face criminal charges for allegedly sexually abusing the

women, one of whom says she was only 13 at the time of the assault.

Bizarrely, Maxwell was initially served with a subpoena in September 2009, as she was leaving the Clinton

Global Initiatives Conference in New York.

Power people: Ghislaine Maxwell and newspaper billionaire Rupert Murdoch, pictured
together in at the Fifth Important Dinner for Women hosted by Her Majesty Queen Rania
Al Abdullah, Wendi Murdoch and Indra Nooyi in New York in September 2010

Epstein was convicted in 2008 of soliciting sex from a minor - a minor in the US is someone younger than

18 - and served 13 months in prison.

Now, lawyers for four of Epstein's alleged victims are fighting to get a federal non-prosecution agreement
against Epstein thrown out so he can potentially face criminal charges for allegedly sexually abusing the

women, one of whom says she was only 13 at the time of the assault.

As for Maxwell, bizarrely, she was initially served with a subpoena in September 2009, as she was leaving
the Clinton Global Initiatives Conference in New York, and continues to deny all allegations made against

her.

Gossip girls: Ghislaine Maxwell (right) and Gossip Girl actress Kelly Rutherford at an event

to celebrate Anna Netrebko's new album 'Verdi', in New York in September 2013

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019472
