depreciation. That implies that it includes all free growth of the larger factor. And
these huge flows would figure to be uncorrelated. Depreciation of either factor is a
steady drag on growth, while free growth is revealed in the charts and tables as a
bucking bronco which might be double-digit positive one year and double-digit
negative the next. No wonder that national accounts cannot reliably tell good years

from bad.

Another distortion in the Y=I+C equation is the undue prominence given to
consumption. Physical capital, in most views including mine, is only a third to a fifth
of total including human capital. Human capital is the lion’s share. Pure
consumption is most of consumption, in my view, but not all of consumption. If the
factors grow in mutual proportion, then, the ratio of total capital growth to pure
consumption will be much higher than of net investment to all of consumption. That
explains, | think, why national accounts have reported not a single year of negative
net product in any of the eight countries since inception. Balanced portfolios report
negative total returns every few years. So would net product, were it not dominated
artificially by the steady positive of consumption. It is as if a portfolio dominated by
investment grade bonds were taken as representative of a realistically balanced

portfolio.

Solving the Age-Wage Puzzle

I will now try to solve a feature that troubled Ben-Porath and has troubled many
economists since. I call it the age-wage puzzle. Age-wage profiles are published
reports comparing pay earned by all working ages at the same time. Since all
cohorts (same-age sets) are compared at once, as in a family portrait, age-wage
profiles do not show effects of technological growth over time. They show effects of
age and experience alone. What appears is that pay or wage rises steadily until
retirement or near it. Meanwhile human capital is present value of remaining
lifetime pay, and shrinks steadily as approaching retirement and mortality leaves
fewer future paydays to discount. Most students of human capital including Ben-

Porath reason that self-investment must end when time left for recovery in higher

Chapter 2: Fast Forward 1/06/16 13

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010953
