Software 253

mathematician, he managed to prove this conjecture and so, two years
after first announcing that he had solved Fermat's Last Theorem he could
finally lay it to rest.

The Special Purpose Objection

Before I declare mankind’s outright victory over computers, the Special
Purpose Objection must be overcome. The objectors would argue that
Wiles is a Special Purpose computer. Special Purpose computers are at
no risk of breaking the Turing limit when they solve problems they have

Theorem (Undecidability of Hilbert’s tenth problem)

There is no algorithm which, for a given arbitrary Diophantine
equation, would tell whether the equation has a solution or not.

been programmed to answer. The objection misses the key point. I am
not arguing having a solution to a given mathematical puzzle presents a
difficulty to a computer; I am arguing a computer cannot discover one.

Take, for example, the search engine Google. If I type “where can
I find the proof of Fermat’s Last Theorem?” into the search box, it will
retrieve a PDF of the proof as the third result. It appears this special
purpose computer solved the problem. But you immediately see the
difficulty. Google search already knew the answer, or more precisely had
indexed the answer. The computer was not tackling a random problem
from scratch. It was tackling a problem for which it knew the answer, or
at least where an answer could be found. There is no sense in which the
search engine discovered the proof.

To really understand this objection we need to examine exactly
what Turing and Matiyasevich proved.

An arbitrary problem is one you do not already know the solution
to when you write the algorithm. You can think of it as a variable. Is
there an algorithm that can solve problem ‘X’? The alternative is a special
program. It can solve problem Y. Y is a problem it knows. It must have
the solution coded somewhere within it in a computably expandable way.
You might think of this as a table of constants; problem Y has solution
1, problem Z has solution 2, and so on. But it could be more subtle than
that. Problem Y might have a solution which is encrypted so you cannot
recognize it within the program, or it might even be the result of some

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015943
