In an astounding move puzzling many in Moscow, Putin after reading this secret FSB report today ordered
posted to the Kremlin’s official website a defense of Strauss-Khan becoming the first world leader to state that
the former IMF chief was a victim of a US conspiracy. Putin further stated, “It’s hard for me to evaluate the
hidden political motives but | cannot believe that it looks the way it was initially introduced. It doesn’t sit right
in my head.”

Interesting to note about all of these events is that one of the United States top Congressman, and 2012
Presidential candidate, Ron Paul has long stated his belief that the US government has lied about its gold
reserves held at Fort Knox. So concerned had Congressman Paul become about the US government and the
Federal Reserve hiding the truth about American gold reserves he put forward a bill in late 2010 to force an
audit of them, but which was subsequently defeated by Obama regime forces.

When directly asked by reporters if he believed there was no gold in Fort Knox or the Federal Reserve,
Congressman Paul gave the incredible reply, “I think it is a possibility.”

Also interesting to note is that barely 3 days after the arrest of Strauss-Kahn, Congressman Paul made a new
call for the US to sell its gold reserves by stating, “Given the high price it is now, and the tremendous debt
problem we now have, by all means, sell at the peak.”

Bizarre reports emanating from the US for years, however, suggest there is no gold to sell, and as we can read
as posted in 2009 on the ViewZone.Com news site:

“In October of 2009 the Chinese received a shipment of gold bars. Gold is regularly exchanged between
countries to pay debts and to settle the so-called balance of trade.

Most gold is exchanged and stored in vaults under the supervision of a special organization based in London,
the London Bullion Market Association (or LBMA). When the shipment was received, the Chinese government
asked that special tests be performed to guarantee the purity and weight of the gold bars. In this test, four
small holes are drilled into the gold bars and the metal is then analyzed.

Officials were shocked to learn that the bars were fake. They contained cores of tungsten with only a outer
coating of real gold. What’s more, these gold bars, containing serial numbers for tracking, originated in the US
and had been stored in Fort Knox for years. There were reportedly between 5,600 to 5,700 bars, weighing 400
oz. each, in the shipment!”

To the final fate of Strauss-Kahn it is not in our knowing, but new reports coming from the United States show
his determination not to go down without a fight as he has hired what is described as a ‘crack team’ of former
CIA spies, private investigators and media advisers to defend him.

To the practical effects on the global economy should it be proved that the US, indeed, has been lying about
its gold reserves, Russia’s Central Bank yesterday ordered the interest rate raised from 0.25 to 3.5 percent and
Putin ordered the export ban on wheat and grain crops lifted by July 1st ina move designed to fill the
Motherlands coffers with money that normally would have flowed to the US.

The American peoples ability to know the truth of these things, and as always, has been shouted out by their
propaganda media organs leaving them in danger of not being prepared for the horrific economic collapse of
their nation now believed will much sooner than later.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031334
