Case 9:08-cv-80736-KAM Document 306 Entered on FLSD Docket 02/02/2015 Page 14 of 19

“Alessi Depo. Tr.”) Alessi testified that he saw “many celebrities” at the house... [including] a
very famous lawyer[] that I’m sure you know, Alan Dershowitz, who spend [sic] at the house a
couple times.” (Alessi Depo. Tr. 70, 71.) However, Alessi made no allegations of improprieties
against any of these individuals. Jane Doe #3 asks the Court to infer that because Prof.
Dershowitz was at his client’s home, he must have participated in nefarious activities. In fact,
Prof. Dershowitz’s friendship with Epstein consisted of the exchange of academic and
intellectual ideas. At most, Alessi testified that Prof. Dershowitz visited Epstein’s home and
received a massage from an adult massage therapist, which “was a treat for everybody” at the
Epstein home. (Id. at 74) (“Q. Did [Dershowitz] have massages sometimes when he was there?
A. Yes. A massage was like a treat for everybody. If they want it, we call the massage and they
have a massage.”) Alessi explains that he was referring to massages performed by adult
massage therapists. (Id. at 184) (“Q. All right. And if I understood your testimony is, the ones
the — that is, of the massage therapists as you’ve just described [a hundred, 200 different massage
therapists], you saw some men? A. Yes. Q. You saw more women? A. Yes. Q. And all of the
women, at least from your viewpoint, were 18, 19 or older? A. Yes.”)’

Messrs. Alessi and Rodriguez did not allege that Prof. Dershowitz received a massage
from any underage females, had any physical contact whatsoever with any underage females, or
witnessed anyone engaging in any inappropriate behavior with any underage females.
Additionally, despite their allegations to the contrary, it is clear that previous testimony from
Rodriguez and Alessi does not corroborate Jane Doe #3’s baseless and utterly false affidavit.

(DE 291-1.)

’TIn fact, the only massage Prof. Dershowitz ever received at any of Epstein’s homes was from a
professional massage therapist who was in her 30’s or 40s.
14

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010748
