Music As A Remedy For Parkinson's Gets Funding From Harvard University And...

MarketWatch (press release)
The results are remarkable, Jeffrey Epstein asserted. Morestudies need to be done to showthat musicimproves motor coordination. However,
these studies highlighthow areas inthe auditory cortexare affected, providing aroad map forhowto...

See all stories on this topic »

Exceptional Public Schools Cited By Obama, Get Critical Backing From Investor_

U.S. Politics Today
Exceptional Public Schools Cited By Obama, Get Critical Backing From Investor, Jeffrey Epstein. Press release distribution provided

by US Politics Today.

World's Smartest Think Tank Gets Substantial Backing from The Jeffrey Epstein...
SacramentoBee
PRNewswire/ --Whathas been dubbed %22the world's smartest website%22and think tank from the UK's Guardian and Observer, The Edge
Foundation, has just received substantial backing from science philanthropistand Edgemember, Jeffrey Epstein. ...

A Genetic Approach For Crohn's And Colitis Disease Is Financed By The Jeffrey...
MarketWatch (press release)
NEY YORK, July 3, 2012/PRNewswire via COMTEX/-- The Jeffrey Epstein VI Foundation, which actively supports science research, has given
substantial support to the Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of America to continue its Genetic Initiative tofinda...

Charter Schools In Washington DC Given A Boost By Education Philanthropist ...

MarketWatch (press release)
The Jeffrey Epstein VI Foundation which helped fund these schools, was establishedin 2000 to support science education throughoutthe United

States but has evolved to support inner city and youthbased education. Charterschools, though generally ...

Largest School In Haiti To Be Built With The Support Of The Jeffrey Epstein VI...
MarketWatch (press release)

NEWYORK, June 19, 2012/PRNewswire via COMTEX/-- The largest grade school in Haiti, called Ecole du Bel-Air, is currently under construction
inthe country's capital, Port-au-Prince, thanks to The Edeyo Foundation and the support of The Jeffrey ...

His 2fe 2s 24s 2s fs 24s ois 24s 2s fe 2fs of 2c ois 2fe oie fe 2fs fs 2s ois ofc ois 2fe ois fe 2s ois 2fe of 2fe 2s of 2c ois 2fe ois 2fe ois fe 2c ois 2fe ois 2fe 2s fe oie ois 2s ois 2fe ois 2s oie ok 2 ok

The information contained in this communication 1s
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and 1s intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of

Jeffrey Epstein

Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited
and may be unlawful. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and
destroy this communication and all copies thereof,
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028761
