thus not told that the USAO had entered into a non-prosecution agreement with
Epstein until after it was signed,” wrote Assistant U.S. Attorney Dexter Lee.

Said Hakes, the former federal prosecutor: “I have never heard of a case where
federal prosecutors consult with a defense attorney before they send out standard
victim notification letters. To negotiate what the letters would say and whether
they would be sent at all suggest that the victims’ rights were violated multiple

times.”

Starr’s aggressive advocacy for Epstein against allegations of improper sexual
behavior was in stark contrast to the path he took investigating then-President
Clinton. The Starr Report, the summary of his findings in the Whitewater
investigation, which started as a probe of a land deal gone sour and veered into
an investigation of sexual misconduct, savaged the president for his involvement
with White House intern Monica Lewinsky and was the basis for impeachment.

Starr himself would face criticism in 2016 — he stepped down as president of
Baylor University amid allegations that he and other university officials
mishandled sexual assault allegations brought by female students against
members of the school’s football team.

The Herald reached out to Starr, through certified letter and through a spokesman
for his current law firm, the Lanier Firm, but did not receive a response for this
story.

Palm Beach police detective Recarey, one of the most highly decorated officers on
the Palm Beach Police Department, called the Epstein case the most troubling of
his 23-year career.

“Some of the victims were — and still are — afraid of Epstein,” he said as part of
a series of interviews with the Herald earlier this year.

Privately, Reiter and Recarey said, they held onto a hope that Epstein would be
brought to trial someday, but they said that that notion had faded.

“T always hoped that the plea would be thrown out and that these teenage girls,
who were labeled as prostitutes by prosecutors, would get to finally shed that label
and see him go to prison where he belongs,”’ Recarey said.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016456
