The NSA‘s Back Door | 217

through the back door of outside contractors were not fully vetted.
(On August 20, 2015, USIS agreed to forfeit $30 million in fees to
settle the lawsuit.)

USIS was also open to sophisticated hacking attacks by outsid-
ers. In August 2014, the Department of Homeland Security’s coun-
terintelligence unit discovered such a massive and persistent breach
in USIS that it shut down its entire exchange of data with it. The
intrusion into USIS records in this case was attributed to hackers in
China most likely linked to the Chinese intelligence service. Such
massive intrusions dated back to 2011. USIS’s lack of security in its
website left a gaping hole through which outside parties, including
Chinese and Russian hackers, could learn both the identity and the
background information of specialists applying for jobs at the NSA.

These private companies also did not sufficiently protect the per-
sonal data of their independent contractors working at the NSA.
The hackers’ group Anonymous took credit for the successful 2011
attack on the Booz Allen Hamilton servers. It also cracked the algo-
rithms used to protect employees. It next injected so-called Trojan

© horse viruses and other malicious codes into Booz Allen servers ©
that allowed it future entry. If amateur hackers such as Anonymous
could break into the computers of the NSA’s largest contractor, so
could adversaries’ state espionage services with far more advanced
hacking tools. From these sites, China or Russia could obtain all the
job applications and personal résumés submitted to contractors such
as Booz Allen. It could then compile a list of the best candidates to
do its bidding.

These deficiencies in the private sector were compounded by
the failure of security in the government’s own Office of Person-
nel Management. It used a computer system called e-QIP in which
intelligence employees, including outside contractors, updated their
computerized records to maintain or upgrade their security clear-
ances. For example, Snowden updated his clearance in 2011. To do
so, these employees constantly updated their financial and personal
information. As it turned out, there was a major hole in the e-QIP
system. It has repeatedly been hacked by unknown parties since
2010. In 2015, the U.S. government told Congress that China was
most likely responsible, but Russia and other nations with sophis-

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r.indd 217 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019705
