for loneliness or perceived social
isolation. Because they believe
themselves to be creatures of God,
Christians feel related to God whatever
happens. Whatever their social
circumstances--no matter, at the
extreme, how isolated or strong their
feelings of abandonment by human
others--individuals are to remember that
they remain in a relationship with God,
who is concerned about them. Even
when they feel themselves utterly
forsaken by others, Christians have
reason to believe God cannot be
forsaking them. They can believe they
are never alone even when they appear
to be absolutely so. In such
circumstances, Christians can always
avail themselves of a completely
counterfactual sense of social connection
with the best-connected “superfriend” of
all—the God who remains, they believe,
in a relationship of ultimately beneficial
causal efficacy with not just themselves
but everyone and everything.

It is the very unapparent,
counterfactual character of God’s
influence on human lives—the
invisibility of God’s influence, in short--
that permits Christians to perceive their
relationship with God as an unbreakable
constant. Because God’s influence is
unapparent or invisible Christians can
continue to believe God is operative for
creation’s benefit in the absence of any
of the obvious confirming evidence
required in ordinary cases of beneficent
human influence. Christians who believe
that God is a universal influence for
good as the world’s creator do not
expect God to be present in the way one
expects a human person to be; and
therefore God’s apparent absence, in
human terms, need not break down their
sense of being in relation to God.

123

Page

Having God as one’s creator (in
the best case scenario) is like having a
perfectly loving human benefactor; but it
is the unusual invisibility of this
benefactor that allows Christians to think
God present even when not apparently
so. Being in a relationship with God for
Christians who believe God is a good
creator is something like being in a
relationship with a human person who
never lets one out of her sight and who
intends one’s good comprehensively. It
is, for example, very like being ina
relationship with a loving parent who is
fully responsible, not just for the fact of
one’s existence, but in a comprehensive
way for one’s nurturance throughout an
extended minority. Unlike a relationship
with an ordinary human person of that
sort, however, God is believed to be
invisible and this is what allows
individuals to assume God’s constant
presence, all appearances to the contrary.

The invisibility that underlies the
Christian affirmation of God’s constancy
here is a function of the very diffuseness
of God’s influence, a diffuseness of
influence no human person, invisible or
otherwise, could possibly match. Belief
in God as the creator of the world does
not encourage one to single out God as
the cause of any specific happening in a
way that suggests God is one cause
among many, the cause of this particular
happening rather than some other with a
different cause. Belief in God as the
creator of the world does not allow one
to identify God’s influence in overly
close fashion with any particular causal
influence of a beneficent sort. Instead, as
I have suggested, whatever is of benefit
to the individual, over the long or short
term, taken as a whole, is to be attributed
to God’s influence.

The Christian cannot, then, locate
or pick out God as one could a loving

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021369
