29

therefore, generally poor. The area to its north, Asia Minor, is heavily
mountainous. Syria cannot project power to the north except with
great difficulty, but powers in Asia Minor can move south. Syria's
eastern flank is buffered by a desert that stretches to the Euphrates.
Therefore, when there is no threat from the north, Syria's interest —
after securing itself internally — 1s to gain access to the coast. Its
primary channel is directly westward, toward the rich cities of the
northern Levantine coast, with which it trades heavily. An alternative
interest is southwestward, toward the southern Levantine coast
controlled by Israel.

As can be seen, Syria can be interested in Israel only selectively.
When it is interested, it has a serious battle problem. To attack Israel,
it would have to strike between Mount Hermon and the Sea of
Galilee, an area about 25 miles wide. The Syrians potentially can
attack south of the sea, but only if they are prepared to fight through
this region and then attack on extended supply lines. If an attack is
mounted along the main route, Syrian forces must descend the Golan
Heights and then fight through the hilly Galilee before reaching the
coastal plain — sometimes with guerrillas holding out in the Galilean
hills. The Galilee is an area that is relatively easy to defend and
difficult to attack. Therefore, it is only once Syria takes the Galilee,
and can control its lines of supply against guerrilla attack, that its real
battle begins.

To reach the coast or move toward Jerusalem, Syria must fight
through a plain in front of a line of low hills. This is the decisive
battleground where massed Israeli forces, close to lines of supply, can
defend against dispersed Syrian forces on extended lines of supply. It
is no accident that Megiddo — or Armageddon, as the plain is
sometimes referred to — has apocalyptic meaning. This is the point at
which any move from Syria would be decided. But a Syrian offensive
would have a tough fight to reach Megiddo, and a tougher one as it

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031862
