Following are the key areas of breakthrough in sleep and dreams (from Patrick). Patrick states that these are
now reproducible, non-controversial, and well-accepted among experts, although still not appreciated by the
public - hence the high value of our CTT TV series. The organizing idea is why and how are sleep and
dreams essential for normal memory consolidation and bodily health / well-being.

Memory Consolidation. There is a fundamental difference between REM and NREM Sleep for memory
consolidation: REM is for emotional memories, whereas NREM is for declarative and procedural memories.
Hence, understanding and dealing with REM emotional memories can lead to treatment for the many
neuropsychiatric illnesses that have sleep/dream-related disorders or syndromes (Parkinson’s Disease,
Anxiety, Substance Abuse, many sleep disorders such as Nightmare Disorder, etc., in addition to PTSD and
Depression). Research shows bi-directional causality between neuropsychiatric disorders and sleep disorders.
This is a superb example of how fundamental science breakthroughs lead to clinical breakthroughs. This fact
that REM is associated with emotional memories is nicely consistent with the apparent psychotic nature of
dreams, because in REM Sleep the frontal cortex is ‘down-regulated’ (and the frontal cortex is associated
with rational planning, reflection, controlling impulses), while in REM Sleep the limbic system is ‘up-
regulated” (and the limbic system is associated with emotions and feelings) — see Neuroimaging below. This
is why dream states flood the ego with emotional fantasies without rational control. However, it is also true
that the limbic system enables creative ideas, thus grounding in science the long-suspected idea that sleep
and dreams can enhance creativity.

As Dr. Robert Stickgold, our other advisor on the series, wrote: “It would be nice if we could talk about sleep
and memory as if there were only one type of memory and one type of sleep. But this is far from the case.
Sleep and memory each comes in many forms, and furthermore, memories can go through multiple forms of
post-encoding processing that must be individually addressed.”

Immunity / Immune System. Strengthening the immune system is now a proven product of NREM sleep.
Discerning the evolutionary basis for this is a key research project (1.e., it seems counter-intuitive

that sleeping facilitates fitness for survival in that predators lurked in the jungles and on the plains so that
going unconscious during sleep does not, at first glance, seem especially adaptive). Studies of sleep in
various non-human animals reveals a direct relationship between longer periods of NREM (Slow-Wave)
Sleep and a stronger immune system, especially in fighting parasites. NREM Sleep releases molecules that
fight inflection; NREM Sleep works for the maintenance, repair and activation of the immune system. (This
gives scientific rationale for the need or desire to sleep during illnesses.) Related are “genetic conflict”
studies with respect to REM and NREM, showing differences in heredity between material and paternal
lines, and differences between males and females in which genes get “imprinted”.

Neuroplasticity. Exciting recent research has reversed the century-long conventional wisdom that new
neurons are never created in adult animals/humans. The development of new neurons — neuronogenesis — is a
vital part of maintaining normal brain and mental functioning. New neurons are being created, importantly,
in the hippocampus (brain organ where new memories are encoded) — but, remarkably, the neuronogensis in
the hippocampus occurs only/largely during REM Sleep — a stunning finding. This is another reason why
REM sleep is needed for emotional memory consolidation (normal functioning).

Dream-Content. Although dreams have sparked human fascination and fantasy for thousands of years, only
in very recent years, have large-scale surveys been conducted with rigorous design, classifications and
statistical analysis. Literally hundreds of thousands of dreams are enabling statistically significant theories,
including cross-cultural analyses (similarities and differences). Dream-posting sites have revolutionized size
and structure of dream data sets. This enables, for the first time, longitudinal studies of dreams over time.
Patterns are repeated. For example, in general, the dreams of males and females differ in fundamental ways.
Males will engage in fighting with other males; females with both males and females. Male dreamers

are often the initiator of fights and the fights are usually physical. Females fight verbally. Aggressiveness

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025112
