304 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

time. Often, if a problem seems impossible, he will sleep on it. When he
wakes the next morning, he will frequently find the problem has solved
itself and a solution is ready at hand.

Art

The final class of creative thinking we generally recognize is artistic skill.
This is probably a form of convergent thinking, except both the problem
and the solution are open. Good artists are considered highly creative
and most people tend to agree on what constitutes good art. There are
some arguments but they are usually more about genres. I might not
appreciate modern installation art, even to the point of declaring it, “not
art” But, when forced to ignore their prejudices most people tend to
agree on the distinction between good and bad.

Painting, sculpture, music, architecture and poetry are the
traditional fine arts. There is often some argument over architecture: is
it not too ‘functional to be considered an artistic endeavor? After all,
art is not supposed to have any purpose other than to be, well, art. This
definition inevitably leads to arguments about whether bad art is still ‘art’
Art should be artful and how do you arrange a pile of used tires artfully?
But this isa very narrow definition. I prefer to define art as something that
provokes an emotional response in the beholder. Using this definition,
the fact that a pile of tires disgusts and annoys you is exactly the point.
Perhaps a more ‘enlightened’ viewer than you is intrigued by the clever
use of materials.

Regardless, we consider art to be a creative endeavor and we can
measure it using the criteria of novelty and quality. Since most people
agree on these measures for a given piece of art, we can use the wisdom
of crowds to give us a scientific scale. That does not mean there won't be
art that you love but which leaves me cold. That is the joy of it. Novelty
and quality are not the same as joy and pleasure, far less the tingle factor.

A quick test for artistic skill is to take a pen and paper and turn to
the person sitting on your left and try to sketch them.

TRY IT!

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015994
