116 Teaching Minds

Never been to college but have been to high school? These are situa-
tions that happen to people. They usually assume that one is like the
other. While this assumption may not work out all that well, it is the
best a scriptless person can do in the situation.

A teacher, therefore, can take advantage of this human desire to
see unknown A as being like known B. People do this all the time.
They assume the girl they just met will behave like the last one they
went out with. They assume that their teacher will behave the way
their last teacher did. They assume that their new car works the way
the last one did. They do this with situations as well. What it means is
that people predict on the basis of experience and it is the job of the
teacher to help students understand which of their prior experiences
is most relevant when they are confused. Doing this is not so easy. But
it is possible and it is a proper area for a teacher or a course to focus on.

Here is the process. Students need to be asked what to do in a situ-
ation that is new to them. Their natural response would be to rely on
prior experience. The teacher’s job is to make that reliance explicit. To
ask students to say which experience they will rely on for help in the
new situation and ask why they think that that particular choice will
be helpful. To ask them to analyze the differences between the current
issue and the prior script and to predict where the prior script might
not work. To ask them to think of alternative scripts that might help.

What I have described here is the basic process of indexing cases
and matching cases, which is critical to thinking—especially original
thinking. No case is really exactly the same as one that came before.
We are used to partial matches when we use an old case to help with
a new one. What we are not used to is a discussion of why one match
was correct and why another was less helpful. Making case matching
a conscious process helps us understand something that we normally
do without much conscious thought. People need to learn to rely on
partial matches and they need to know how to determine which par-
tial match is most likely. I have referred to this process as case-based
reasoning in many prior publications.* But I have not spoken about
how to teach case-based reasoning. This is where post hoc discussion
is very important. An example of such a discussion can be found in
a book written by Harvard government professors® on the failure of
President Ford to choose the right cases to reason from in a crisis. Usu-
ally this kind of analysis is done as kind of an afterthought. However,
teaching people to do it actually is critical to teaching people to pre-
dict properly.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023862
