Guiding Principles
of Enforcement

and reference checks; ensuring that the contract spells out exactly what services and deliverables (such as written status
reports or other documentation) Consultant is providing; training Consultant on the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws;
requiring Consultant to represent that he will abide by the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws; including audit rights in the
contract (and exercising those rights); and ensuring that payments requested by Consultant have the proper supporting
documentation before they are approved for payment.

Part 2: Distributors and Local Partners

Assume the following alternative facts:

Instead of hiring Consultant, Company A retains an often-used local distributor (Distributor) to sell Company A's
products to the Ministry of Immigration. In negotiating the pricing structure, Distributor, which had introduced the project
to Company A, claims that the standard discount price to Distributor creates insufficient margin for Distributor to cover
warehousing, distribution, installation, marketing, and training costs and requests an additional discount or rebate, or, in
the alternative, a contribution to its marketing efforts, either in the form of a lump sum or as a percentage of the total
contract. The requested discount/allowance is significantly larger than usual, although there is precedent at Company
A for granting this level of discount in unique circumstances. Distributor further advises Company A that the Ministry's
procurement officials responsible for awarding the contract have expressed a strong preference for including a particular
local company (Local Partner) in the transaction as a subcontractor of Company A to perform installation, training, and
other services that would normally have been performed by Distributor or Company A. According to Distributor, the
Ministry has a solid working relationship with Local Partner, and it would cause less disruption for Local Partner to perform
most of the on-site work at the Ministry. One of the principals (Principal 1) of the Local Partner is an official in another

government ministry.

What additional compliance considerations do these alternative facts raise?

As with Consultant in the first scenario above, Company A should carefully vet Distributor and Local Partner and their
roles in the transaction in order to minimize the likelihood of incurring FCPA liability. While Company A has an established
relationship with Distributor, the fact that Distributor has requested an additional discount warrants further inquiry into
the economic justification for the change, particularly where, as here, the proposed transaction structure contemplates
paying Local Partner to provide many of the same services that Distributor would otherwise provide. In many cases, it may
be appropriate for distributors to receive larger discounts to account for unique circumstances in particular transactions.
That said, a common mechanism to create additional margin for bribe payments is through excessive discounts or rebates
to distributors. Accordingly, when a company has pre-existing relationships with distributors and other third parties,
transaction-specific due diligence—including an analysis of payment terms to confirm that the payment is commensurate
with the work being performed—can be critical even in circumstances where due diligence of the distributor or other third
party raises no initial red flags.

Company A should carefully scrutinize the relationship among Local Partner, Distributor, and Ministry of Immigration
officials. While there is nothing inherently illegal about contracting with a third party that is recommended by the end-user,
or even hiring a government official to perform legitimate services on a transaction unrelated to his or her government
job, these facts raise additional red flags that warrant significant scrutiny. Among other things, Company A would be
well-advised to require Principal 1 to verify that he will have no role in the Ministry of Immigration’s decision to award
the contract to Company A, notify the Ministry of Immigration and his own ministry of his proposed involvement in the
transaction, and certify that he will abide by the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws and that his involvement in the
transaction is permitted under local law.

(cont’d)

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022566
