Freedom House

Chapter 6

Flacks and Friends

Did the Russian government attempt to surrepti-
tiously influence the 2016 U.S. presidential election
in Donald Trump's favor? The answer to that question
may never be definitively known. There is, neverthe-
less, a critical mass of evidence that Kremlin-allied
forces were responsible for hacking into the Dem-
ocratic National Committee's computers, stealing
millions of files, and turning the information over to
WikiLeaks, which in turn circulated it to the media.
Some may find the evidence unsatisfactory. But given
Russia's well-established record of cyberwarfare,
previously directed at neighboring states like Estonia
and Ukraine, and the Russian regime's dislike for the
Democratic candidate, Hillary Clinton, there is ample
reason to treat charges of Russian culpability as
strongly credible.

Another body of evidence can be found in Russia's
record of involvement in the internal politics of a
number of countries in Europe, including European
Union (EU) member states. In fact, under Vladimir
Putin, Russia has repeatedly interfered in the affairs of
European states in ways that the Kremlin would regard
as intolerable if Russia were the target.

Russian involvement is usually camouflaged so as

to ensure a degree of deniability, but the disguise is
sometimes rather thin. In late 2014, France's far-right
National Front party, led by Marine Le Pen, secured a
€9 million loan from a Russian bank with indirect ties
to the government in what many interpreted as a bet
by Putin on the future of French politics. Le Pen has
subsequently spoken favorably of Putin and criticized
the sanctions imposed on Russia by the EU.' She has
even called for a strategic alliance with Russia and
proposed a pan-European grouping that would include
Russia while leaving out the United States. By 2016, the
National Front was seeking more funding that would
enable it to participate on an equal footing with main-
stream parties in the 2017 presidential contest.

The 2014 loan came just months after the National
Front helped provide a veneer of legitimacy to Russia's
illegal annexation of Crimea. Aymeric Chauprade, a Le
Pen adviser who once called Russia “the hope of the
world against new totalitarianism,” participated in an
observer mission to monitor the Crimean referendum
on secession from Ukraine and union with Russia. The

“As an operator, but not as a human
being, | would say Putin. The way he
played the whole Syria thing. Bril-
liant.”

—Nigel Farage, on the world leader he most admires

“| admire his cool head. Because
there is a cold war being waged
against him by the EU at the behest
of the United States... | admire that

he has managed to restore pride and
contentment to a great nation that
had been humiliated and persecuted
for 70 years.”

—Marine Le Pen

“[Putin] makes a decision and he exe-
cutes it, quickly. And then everybody
reacts. That's what you call a leader.”

—Rudy Giuliani

mission was arranged by a pro-Moscow organization
called the Eurasian Observatory for Elections and
Democracy, and consisted largely of politicians from

a variety of European far-right parties, including Hun-
gary’s Jobbik and Austria's Freedom Party. The vote,
held under Russian military occupation, was widely re-
garded as falling well short of international standards.
However, the Eurasian Observatory delegation gave
the referendum an enthusiastic thumbs-up.’

oscow has paid considerable attention to evolving
political developments in Central and Eastern Europe.
Despite their relatively recent histories of Soviet
subjugation and communist rule, a number of these
countries have seen the rise of populist or nationalist
parties that express admiration for or affinity with
Putin's regime. Meanwhile, mainstream parties have
developed attitudes toward Russia that are notable
for their ambivalence, including on the pivotal issue of
the Kremlin's invasion of Ukraine.

www.freedomhouse.org

A

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019275
