income from such securities and other financial instruments, if any, may fluctuate and that price or value of such securities and instruments may rise or fall and, in some cases, investors may

or
ine
UK
ocated outsi

uding AD

ime, hold a
BofA Merrill
w
methods of
recipient of
In the event
therewith

rading position (long or

h
his report.

that the recipient receiv
LPF&S may be deemed

ref|
be more or less positive than a stock
BofA Merrill Lynch is aware that the i
acti

de of the United Kingdom. BofA
LPF&S or one of its affiliates is a regular issuer of traded financial instru

Lynch, through business units other than Bo
th, and reach different conclusions from, the information presented in
€ persons who prepared them, and BofA

's fundamental equi
mplemen

y rating.

rt.

errill Lynch Global Researe

short) in the securities and financial

errill Lynch is un

ed this report pursuant to a contract

beyond the delivery of this report (unless otherwise agreed specifically in

transactions, including transactions i

nany securities mentioned in this re

Copyright and General Information regarding Research Reports:

Copyright 2017 Bank of America Con

retransmitted or disclosed, in whole
simultaneously to internal

review of this research report consti
(including any investmen
Materials p

BofA
researc
hould

errill Lynch Global
h reports. To tl
consult their ow
ny BofA Merrill Lynch en
n public information. Fac
rofessionals in other busi
his re
ities. None of MLPF&S, any of i
Research policy prohibits rese
containing such rating, recom
ormation relating to the tax s
ax advice based
The information herein (o
ontain links to third-
ined on such third-party websi
any affiliation with BofA Merrill Lyne
submitting any personal in

os

é)
a

recent research report rela

In some cases, an issuer may be classified as Restric
instruments) to be suspended or withdrawn and should
financial instruments) nor should the analyses or opinion(s) be considered a solicita

its security and/or financia

solicit purchases of securities or fina

ormation to them. BofA
Certain outstanding reports may contain discussions and/or investment opinions re
ing to an issuer prior to making an investment decision.
ed or may be Under Review or Extended Review. In each case, investors should consider any investment opinion
not rely on the analyses and investment opinion(s) pertaining to such issuer (or i
ion of any kind. Sales persons and financial advisors affiliated with MLPF&S or any of its affiliates may not
s that are Restricted or Under Review and may only solicit securities under Extended Review in accordance with

recommendations, estimates or price targets) without
repared by BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research personnel are ba:
information known to, professionals in other business areas of BofA Merri
Research and certain business groups. As a resul
he extent this report discusses any legal proceeding or issues, it has not been prepared as nor is it intended to express any legal conclusion, opinion or advice. Investors

egal advisers as to issues of law relating to the subject matter of this report. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research personnel’s knowledge of legal proceedings in which
ity and/or its directors, officers and employees may be
5 and views presented in this material that rela
ness areas of BofA Merrill Lynch in connection with the legal proceedings or matters relevant to such proceedings.
port has been prepared independently of any issuer of securities mentioned herein and not in connection with any proposed offering of securities or as agent of
s affiliates or their research analysts has any authority whatsoever to make any representation or warranty on behalf of the issuer(s). Bo
arch personnel from disclosing a recommendation, investment rating, or investment thesis for review by an issuer prior to the pub

mendation or investment thesis.

es is not part o
h. Access to any

ncial instrumen

on may be limited by regulations prohibiting or restricting shortselling in many jurisdictions. Investors are urged
executing any short idea contained in this repo!
Foreign currency rates of exchange may adversely affect
Rs, effectively assume currency risk.
Readers: The protections provided by the U.K. regulatory regime, including the Financial Services Scheme, co not a
h policies relating to conflicts of interest are described at http://go.bofa.com/coi.
ments linked to securities that may have been recommended in this report. ML

instrum

port.

sed on
I Lynch
, BofA

errill Lynch and are not publicly-available materials. Any unautl

s Coverage Cluster. Short

ation of the ideas expressed in this report may depend upon an investor's ability to short securities or ot
o seek advice regarding the applica

he value, price or income of any security or financial instrument mentioned in this report. Inves

ents discussed in this report.

‘A Merrill Lynch Global Research, may have issued and may in the future issue trading ideas or recommenda
his report. Such ideas or recommendations reflect the different time
der no obligation to ensure that such other trading ideas or recommendations are brought

between the recipient and MLPF&S for the provision of research services for a separate fee,
o be acting as an investment adviser, such status relates, if at all, solely to the person with whom MLPF&S
writing by MLPF&S). MLPF&S is and continues to act solely as a broker-dealer in connection

poration. All rights reserved. iQmethod, iQmethod 2.0, iQprofile, iQtoolkit, iQworks are service marks of Ban
iQcustom®, iQdatabase® are registered service marks of Bank of America Corporation. This research report is prepared for the use of BofA Merri
or in part, or in any form or manner, without
and client websites and other portals by BofA
utes your agreement not to redistribute, retransmi

he express written consent of BofA Merrill Lynch. BofA Merri
, or disclose to others the contents, opinions, co
public information. Facts and views presented in this material

, including investment banking personnel. BofA Merrill Lynch
errill Lynch does not disclose certain client relationships wit

plaintif

e to an

s, defendants, co-defendants or co-plaintiffs wi

erent from and co not affect a stocl

pply in general to business coordinated by BofA Merri

jose their entire principal investment. Past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance. Levels and basis for taxation may change.

This report may contain a short-term trading idea or recommendation, which highlights a specific near-term catalyst or event impacting the issuer or the market that is anticipated to have a
short-term price impact on the equity securities of the issuer. Short-term trading ideas and recommendations are dif
ects both a longer term total return expectation and attractiveness for investment relative to other stocks within i

's fundamental equity rating, which

-term trading ideas and recommendations may

her financial instruments and that such
bility of such regulations prior to

ors in such securities and instruments,

I Lynch entities

PF&S or one of its affiliates may, at any

ions that are inconsistent
rames, assumptions, views and analytical
o the attention of any

and in connection
ly and does not extend
with the execution of any

has contracted direct

of America Corporation. iQanalytics®,
| Lynch clients and may not be redistributed,
Lynch Global Research reports are distributed

horized use or disclosure is prohibited. Receipt and
nclusion, or information con
first obtaining expressed permission from an authorized officer of BofA Merrill Lynch.

ained in this report

have not been reviewed by, and may not reflect
has established information barriers between
h, or compensation received from, such issuers in

h or involving issuers mentioned in this report is based

y such proceedings have not been reviewed by, discussed wit

atus of financial instruments discussed herein is not intended to provide tax advice or to be used by anyone to provide tax advice.
on their particular circumstances from an independent tax professional.
her than disclosure information relating to BofA Merrill Lynch and its affiliates) was obtained from various sources and we do not guarantee its accuracy. This report
party websites. BofA Merrill Lynch is not responsible for the content of any third-party website or any linked content contained in a third-par'
this report and is not incorporated by reference into this report. The inclusion of a link in this report does not im
third-party website is at your own risk, and you should always review the terms and privacy policies at third-party websi

errill Lynch is not responsible for such terms and privacy policies and expressly disclaims any liability for them.
ating to securities, financial instruments and/or issuers that are no longer curren

h, and may not reflect information known to,

any issuer of any
A Merrill Lynch
ication of a research

nvestors are urged to

bsite. Content
endorsement by or
es before

y we
ply any

. Always refer to the most

relating to such issuer (or
s securities and/or

irm policies.

Neither BofA Merrill Lynch nor any officer or employee of BofA Merrill Lynch accepts any liability whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential damages or losses arising from any use of

this report or its contents.

Bankof America
Merrill Lynch

Equity Strategy Focus Point | 29 January 2017

27

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023095
