International real estate focused on key markets
with potential for long-term investment
International real estate allocations also grew in
the period to 2016, though at a lower rate than
home market. Sovereigns reported that increased
international allocations in many cases represented
tactical factors such as restrictions in domestic
market or challenges achieving target allocations in
infrastructure or private equity.

As aresult, increases in international allocations
were relatively concentrated in terms of asset quality
(tier-1 assets offering a comparable return profile
of private equity and infrastructure). This has led
sovereigns to expect greater growth in high grade
office and commercial real estate (figure 20), with
long-term tenancies underpinning income generation,
over industrial or residential categories which offer
asset growth and development potential.

The importance of quality to international real
estate allocations is also evident in geographic
allocations. Sovereigns prefer ‘safe haven’ markets
such as North America and Western Europe when
investing in overseas real estate, with developed
markets leading sovereign citations for preferred real
estate locations shown in figure 21.

Sovereigns acknowledged the benefits

of external asset managers, particularly

for international allocations

The success of domestic real estate investments in

matching liabilities and the scope to capture liquidity

alpha through internal models is reflected in the pace

of home market allocations over the past three years.

However, looking forward sovereigns appreciate

that further increases may be constrained by asset

allocation or the maturity and depth of the local

market. Many sovereigns also noted that there were

risks associated with further internal investment in

home market real estate:

- Despite a focus on high-quality assets, liquidity
is a challenge for real estate investors and many
sovereigns are approaching limits on the size of
their investments

- Growing internalisation leaves sovereigns without
third-party support in governance and compliance
for their real estate investments

- lf interest rates rise, demand for real estate is
expected to slow, with implications for both asset
pricing and liquidity

However, on the assumption that interest rates

globally remain lower near-term, we expect that

sovereign demand for real estate will grow faster

than sovereigns are willing or able to deploy to

home markets. As a result, we expect that over

the next three years allocations to international

markets will grow, and diversification outside

preferred geographies and classes will accelerate.

Despite success in greenfield investing in their home

market, sovereigns are less able to influence supply

of real estate opportunities overseas, providing an

opportunity for external asset managers to support

sovereigns in sourcing and managing real estate deals.

Developed market
sovereigns have
access to a wide
range of high-
quality domestic
realestate assets.

Fig 20. Future increase in real estate sub-asset class allocations (% citations)

Sample is based on sovereign investors and excludes central banks.
Sample=25.

28

Office

Commercial

Residential

Industrial

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026708
