KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP

Agreement to Defer Prosecution to the State, an agreement without precedent and fraught
with substantial practical and legal hurdles to its implementation.

6. THE SDFL DID NOT DEFER TO THE STATE.
Sloman’s Letter:
e “{TJhe SDFL indicated a willingness to defer to the State the length of incarceration.”
Id., p.2.
The Truth:

* The SDFL neither deferred to the State, nor even discussed with. the State, the length of
Mr. Epstein’s incarceration. In a letter to the defense, Criminal Division Chief, Matthew
Menchel rejected the sentence contemplated by the State’s plea agreement, writing that
“the federal interest will not be vindicated in the absence of a two-year term of state
imprisonment.” See Tab 40, August 3, 2007 Email from M. Menchel. Of course, this
position is contrary to Section 9-2031D of the U.S. Attorney’s Manual (indicating that
the “result” of a state prosecution is “presume/d]” to have vindicated the federal interest).
It is understandable, therefore, that Mr. Sloman might want to retreat from it now.
Indeed, the final Deferred Prosecution Agreement (DPA) restricts the state-court judge
from exercising any of his rightful discretion and to specifically prohibit the judge from
offering probation, community control or any other alternative in lieu of incarceration.
DPA,  2(a).

7. SUGGESTION OF ADDITIONAL STATE PLEA
Mr. Sloman’s Letter:

e The parties considered: “as suggested by [the defense], a plea to state charges
encompassing Epstein’s conduct.” See Tab 1, May 19, 2008 Letter from J. Sloman, p.2,

q2.

The Truth:

e It was the government, and not the defense, that suggested a plea to state charges to
resolve the federal investigation. Andrew Lourie proposed declining prosecution in favor
of the state. Although Mr. Epstein and the State Attorney’s Office had already reached
a plea agreement, in August 2007, Mr. Sloman and AUSA Marie Villafana warned that
they intended to prosecute Epstein federally unless his counsel (i.e., not the U.S.
Attorney’s Office) sought more stringent conditions to the State’s proposed plea
agreement. These stringent conditions included, among other things, the two-year prison
term demanded by Mr. Menchel (discussed above) and a charge requiring him to register
as a sex offender.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012177
