Already some baby boomers are able to remotely lock their parents’ doors, track calls coming into
their homes and even see who is ringing the doorbell, in many cases right from their smart phones.
Systems such as QuietCare, WellAWARE, FineThanx and SimplyHome are already fixtures in
some U.S. homes and seniors’ communities, although Orlov estimates fewer than 10,000 units are
in active use because the systems can be so costly.

Next month, Paul Whyte, a Markham dealer of smart-home technology that allows ordinary
electronics and appliances to communicate with each other, will unveil the GrandCare system at
the Zoomer show in Toronto.

“T call it the invisible caregiver,” says Whyte of Cybernetics Systems Inc. “The minute I saw this
system I thought, ‘There’s something that actually makes sense.’

The key, of course, with all these technologies is that the senior be relatively able-bodied and
sound of mind — most are of limited value if the senior is suffering from dementia, which is
expected to become a major public health issue in the next few decades.

But developers are also working hard on that challenging front.

Sometime later this fall or next spring the first GPS-equipped shoe, the Aetrex Ambulator, will go
on sale through www.gpsshoe.com orwww.foot.com.

Originally designed for children by Los Angeles-based GTX Corp., the new shoes are expected to
retail for about $250 U.S. They enable caregivers to track those afflicted with dementia or
Alzheimer’s thanks to GPS and cellular technology that will relay their whereabouts back to a
monitoring centre.

“Privacy may be a talking point, but it’s not really an issue,” says Patrick Bertagna, chairman and
CEO of GTX Corp.

MED Cottage creator Dupin expects concerns around privacy will fade quickly as families and
health-care systems here and in the U.S. become overwhelmed by aging baby boomers — more
than 76 million in the U.S., 10 million in Canada — who start hitting 65 next year.

“T see remote monitoring becoming an integral part of health care as we all age,” says Dupin. “One
of the issues around aging in place is going to be making trade-offs. Privacy may be something we

have to give up.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018133
