not be had” or that “the discovery may be had only on specified terms and conditions...”. Fla. R.
Civ. P. 1.280(c).

Defendant issued a vastly overbroad subpoena to this non-party which included 25
separate document requests, many with subparts. In addition to placing an undue burden on this
non-party to have to search for the broad scope of materials requested, the document requests seek
information that is irrelevant to the Florida Defamation Action and clearly intended to “embarrass
and oppress” this non-party. Fla. R. Civ. P. 1.280(c). Defendant’s overly broad subpoena to non-
party, Jane Doe No. 3, goes so far as to seek documents relating to former President, Bill Clinton
and former Vice President, Al Gore, which, even if such documents existed, would be absolutely
irrelevant to the Florida Defamation Action. See Toledo v. Publix Super Markets, Inc., 30 So. 3d
712 (Fla. 4 DCA 2010).

Defendant’s requests can be grouped into four key categories: (1) documents that contain
highly personal and sensitive information sought only to harass, embarrass and intimidate the non-
party; (2) documents unrelated to this action and, instead, intended to gain discovery relating to
Defendant’s admitted “goal” of putting this non-party in “jail,” bringing a new case against Jane
Doe No. 3, or related to the federal action; (3) documents that contain personal financial or other
confidential information; and (4) privileged communications between the non-party and her
lawyers. Non-party, Jane Doe No. 3, has filed specific objections as to each request sought in
Defendant’s subpoena as set forth in Exhibit 9. Here, Jane Doe No. 3 provides the Court with a
sampling of the oppressive nature of the subpoena that is the subject of her detailed objections.

a. Category 1 — Overly Broad Subpoena Requests Intended Solely to Harass, Embarrass
and Intimidate the Non-Party by Seeking Highly Personal and Sensitive Information

It is clear from the Defendant’s requests that his intent is to intimidate and harass this non-
party by seeking highly sensitive personal information that is irrelevant to this action. For

example, Request no. 16 seeks “Any diary, journal or calendar concerning your activities between

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015604
