Okay, thanks for this statement . . . I'll print it in full along with the article, probably today. I very, very
strongly disagree with your position and hope you eventually reconsider, but I do appreciate you taking the
time to respond.

-R

On Wed, Apr 6, 2011 at 1:15 PM, Lawrence Krauss qq wrote:

jeffrey apparently paid for massages with sex... I believe him when he told me he had no idea the girls were
underage, and I doubt that people normally are asked for or present a driver's license under such
circumstances... Moreover, I also believe that Jeffrey is an easy target for those who want to take advantage
of him... Moreover, I can say with great honesty that Jeffrey's time in prison led him to seriously examine
his life in very positive ways and I don't believe in blanket condemnations of people. He served time for
something that was determined was inappropriate. I honestly don't know who was the victim in this case. I
fully expect that these masseuses knew what they were doing, and were not swayed to do anything with
Jeffrey that they were not already doing. That is not to approve of the whole behavior, but lots of peoplel
know and like have behavior I don't entirely approve of.. I know it is not politically correct to say that,
because in general this is a very sensitive issue and all other things being equal one should take the side of
the young women. But all things are not equal in this case, from my point of view. It is a judgement call,
and I will not turn my back on a good friend so easily.

On Apr 6, 2011, at 9:57 AM, Rebecca Watson wrote:

Thanks for getting back to me. I was asking because I found the quote shocking . . . the evidence against
Epstein is overwhelming and he's even pled guilty to paying for sex with a minor. It's in no way scientific or
rational to assume that because you never saw him with an underage girl he must actually be innocent. It is
possible for a person to be kind and generous with his friends but still a criminal paying for sex with
underage girls in his private life.

I'm going to write about the topic on Skepchick, and I'll include any additional statement you'd like if you
want to provide more context or if you've changed your mind.

-R

On Wed, Apr 6, 2011 at 12:50 PM, Lawrence Krauss qq wrote:
yes it is.. Based on my direct experience with Jeffrey, which is all I can base my assessment on, he is a
thoughtful, kind, considerate man who is generous to his friends, and all of the women I have known who
have been associated with Jeffrey speak glowingly in the same words..

why are you asking?

On Apr 6, 2011, at 9:41 AM, Rebecca Watson wrote:

Dear Professor Krauss,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031080
