In May 2006, Recarey drew up probable cause affidavits, charging Epstein, two of
his assistants and one recruiter with sex-related crimes. Instead, Krischer took
what Recarey said was the unusual step of referring the case to a state grand jury.
Epstein was indicted in state court on a minor charge of solicitation of
prostitution.

Recarey said Krischer told him he didn’t believe Epstein’s accusers, and only two
of them were called before the state grand jury investigating the case — even
though police had lined up more than a dozen girls and witnesses at that time.

Believing that the case had been tainted, Reiter — that same month, May 2006 —
took a very public stance against Krischer, writing a letter, which was released to
the news media, calling on Krischer to remove himself from the case. The chief
then referred it to the FBI, which opened its own investigation in July 2006, FBI
records show.

Reiter said he was effectively blackballed in some Palm Beach circles as a result
of going over Krischer’s head, and their relationship, once strong, would never be
the same.

Reiter has no regrets about what he did.

“There are challenges here that don’t exist in a lot of other places because of the
affluence in the community, but the only way I could approach this case was that
none of that matters. The truth is still the truth. The facts are the facts.
Everybody is treated the same.”

In the years that followed, several of the victims obtained lawyers and filed civil
lawsuits against Epstein. About two dozen lawsuits were filed, starting in 2008.
The early cases were particularly brutal for his victims, the court records show.

The girls faced fierce grilling from another pack of Epstein’s civil attorneys, who
questioned them about their boyfriends, drinking, drug use, social media posts,
their parents and even their medical histories.

One girl was asked about her abortions, and her parents, who were Catholic and
knew nothing about the abortions, were also deposed and questioned.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016443
