Local News: West Palm Beach, Palm Beach County, Martin & St. Lucie Counties | The Palm Beach Post 4/6/11 1:38 PM

| NEXT GENERATION PENNZOIL®
| : CLEANS OUT UP TO 40% OF
SLUDGE IN THE 1ST OIL CHANGE*

“Based on a severe sludge clean-up test using SAE 54-30.

Subscribe Now Renew

Local News Greater Palm Beaches and Treasure Coast

Palm Beach sex offender's secret plea deal:
Possible co-conspirators not charged, presses
victims to settle civil suits

By SUSAN SPENCER-WENDEL
Palm Beach Post Staff Writer
Friday, September 18, 2009

WEST PALM BEACH — Billionaire financier sex offender Jeffrey Epstein's secret non-prosecution agreement he
struck with federal prosecutors was unsealed Friday, offering the first public look at the deal Epstein's high-powered
legal counsel brokered on his behalf.

According the agreement, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the U.S. Attorney's Office investigated Epstein
for various federal crimes, including prostitution, some punishable by a minimum of 10 years up to life in prison

But federal prosecutors backed down and agreed to recall grand jury subpoeanas, if Epstein pleaded guilty to
prostitution-related felonies in state court, which he ultimately did. He received an 18-month jail sentence, of which
he served 13.

A former federal prosecutor of 15 years, Mark Johnson of Stuart, said the disparity in the potential sentences was
unusual.

The United States Attorney's Office also agreed not to charge any of Epstein's possible co-conspirators - Sarah
Kellen, Adriana Ross, Lesley Groff and Nadia Marcinkova.

The agreement was negotiated in part by New York heavyweight criminal defense attorney Gerald Lefcourt.

On its first draft in September 2007, it required that Epstein pay an attorney - tapped by the U.S. Attorney's Office
and approved by Epstein - to represent some of the victims in civil suits they had filed against Epstein. That
attorney is prominent Miami lawyer Bob Josefsberg.

Former prosecutor Johnson said he has never seen a provision like that before.

But an addendum to the agreement signed the following month struck Epstein's duty to pay Josefsberg if he and the
victims did not accept a settlement and instead pursued litigation.

The agreement, signed by Assistant U.S. Attorney Maria Villafana, does not expressly state whether any victims
were contacted or consulted before the deal was made.

Attorney Brad Edwards of Fort Lauderdale, who represents three of the young women, believes that none of the
between 30 and 40 woman identified as victims in the federal investigation were told of the deal. Edwards said his
clients were still receiving letters in the mail months afterwards saying the U.S. Attorney's Office assuring them
Epstein would be prosecuted.

Never consulting the victims is probably the most outrageous aspect of it... Edwards said. It taught them that
someone with money can buy his way out of anything. It's outrageous and embarrassing for United States
Attorney's Office and the State Attorneys Office.”

Epstein now faces many civil lawsuits filed by the women, who are represented by a variety attorneys. In many, the
facts alleged are the same: that Epstein had a predilection for teenage girls, identified poor, vulnerable ones and
lured them to his home via other young women. The teens describe ascending a staircase lined with nude
photographs of young girls and to the spa room where Epstein would appear in a small towel.

Former Circuit Judge Bill Berger, who represents one of the victims, and The Palm Beach Post sought the
unsealing of the agreement. Berger refers to it as a sweetheart deal.”

Why was itso important for the government to make this deal? Berger asked rhetorically. We have not yet had
honest explanation by any public official as to why it was made .. and why the victim's were sold down the river.”

Former federal prosecutor Ryon McCabe described the agreement as very unorthodox. Such agreements, he said,
are usually reserved for corporations, not individuals.

http://www.palmbeachpost.com/pbcwest/content/local_news/epaper/2009/09/18/0918epstein.html

|

® Site O Web Web Search by YAHOO!

Obama Launches Mortgage Relief Plan

lf you owe less than $729,000 on your _
mortgage, you probably qualify forthe _
President's Making Home Affordable
Program. With rates lower than they've ever
been, there has never been a better time to
refinance. If you are a homeowner and you
haven't looked into refinancing recently, you
may be surprised at how much you can save.

Select Your Age: :

Calculate New House Payment

COLUMNISTS AND BLOGGERS

FRANK CERABINO
5

Read Frank's latest columns
and follow him on Twitter.
Read more
«l

HOT CELEBRITY NEWS

Get the latest on South Florida
celebrities, billionaires,
politicos, more. Page2Live

GEORGE BENNETT

Read Post politics columnist
George Bennett's latest
articles. Read more

MOST POPULAR HEADLINES COMMENTS

Fatal shooting in Delray Beach draws crowd of 100
onlookers

Lake Worth mayor says The Cottage complaints use
‘gay card' against city manager

West Palm Beach mayor: Firefighter layoffs likely

Narcy Novack charged in 2009 Fort Lauderdale killing
of her mother-in-law

Boynton Police warn of new twist on ATM identity fraud

| _ | FOLLOW THE POST ON TWITTER
-_—

f txt | SIGN UP FOR MOBILE TEXT ALERTS

a The Palm Beach Post on Facebook
Like

16,985 people like The Palm Beach Post.

Page 1 of 3

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013416
