outstanding Partnership Units of KUE.

Board of Directors: The General Partner will have a Board of Directors initially
consisting of up to 13 persons.

Following the first closing of the offering and prior to the
“Initial Listing (as defined below), the outside Investor
(including its affiliates) holding the greatest number of shares
in the General Partner at the first closing of the offering will
appoint two directors of the General Partner and the holders
of the Class B Shares will appoint the remaining directors.

Following the fnitial appointment of the Board, the Board
may, in its sole discretion, increase the number of directors,
including to accommodate investors that invest subsequent
to the initial closing of the offering of the Units, provided that
the outside Investor appointing two directors pursuant to the
paragraph above shall have the right to appoint additional
directors as required to maintain a ratio of such Investor's
designees to total Board members of not less than 2/15ths.

“Independent Directors of the Board of Directors of the
General Partner shall be individuals who (a) are not (i) a
Principal, (ii) a family member of a Principal, (iti) an
employee of a Principal or any entity controlled by one or
more cf the Principals, and (b) meet the definition of
independent director’ set forth in Rule 303A.02 of the New
York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual (as if the
General Partner, the Partnership and each of its Subsidiaries
were the “listed company’) , including any such individuals
appointed by the Investors who otherwise satisfy the
requirements of this definition.

At the time of the final closing of this offering, the General
Partner will have at least two Independent Directors. After
the Initial Listing and so long as consistent with contractual,
listing and licensing cbligations, a majority of the board of
directors of the listed company will be Independent
Directors.

Initial Listing Process: Initial Listing” means a listing on a recognized international
securities exchange with a substantially concurrent
underwritten offering generating gross proceeds of U.S.
$200 million or more. “Initial Listing” refers to the Initial
Listing of KUE or any successor or any subsidiary of KUE to
which substantially all of KUE’s assets and liabilities have
been transferred or are held.

The General Partner may take and cause KUE to take such
actions as the General Partner reasonably deems necessary
to complete the initial Listing on the recognized internaiional
securities exchange or exchanges selected by the General
Partner, including without limitation a restructuring or
reorganization or other transaction or asset transfer between
or among KUE and any of its subsidiaries, and may require

33

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024466
