waiting for his flight in front of a TV in the crapped-out lobby of an old hotel on the
road out of town, watching Mubarak’s promised speech. The President projected
total confidence on screen. This was the Mubarak Wisner had known in the 1980s.
There had always been a barreling self-assurance about the man; it was alive in him
now, facing the unthinkable. Ruggedly handsome and perfectly controlled. You could
almost believe, as Wisner did for a moment, “This was a great man who had led a
country through difficult times. He will endure.” Six assassination attempts. Mubarak
had always been a survivor.

Yet as he watched, Wisner knew the challenge the great man faced. Did Mubarak, he
wondered? Did he even understand what was happening around him? That he was
giving the speech on television, in the face of this strange revolutionary movement
that was unfolding on the smart phones of Cairo as much as on its streets, was a
subtle admission: Old power struggles to handle new rules. Wisner had seen tapes
of the earlier speeches, the ones intended to calm the crowds which had in fact
inflamed them further. He knew just how fine the edge Mubarak now paced.
Mubarak needed to address the protestors on their own level. He needed to show he
understood. There was only one thing he must not do, Wisner thought as he
watched. He must not address the protesters paternalistically, as a father might
speak to a child. On the screen in front of him, Mubarak continued in his steady,
slightly strident voice. “I am speaking to you all from the heart,” he said. “A speech
from a father to his sons and daughters.”

Two weeks later, Mubarak was gone.
2.

Imagine, for a moment, you are Mubarak - or really any successful early 215' century
autocrat. You’ve managed several decades of control in your Middle Eastern, North
African or Asian country. Perhaps you've inherited your position from your father or
an uncle. They’ve taught you about power. Keep it tightly controlled. Replace key
officials regularly. Execute your enemies from time to time. You’ve learned the
virtues of the hard crackdown. You've sent your security officers to the best military
schools in the US and Europe, and taught them to temper their firm grip with (a bit
of) humanity. In short, you’ve mastered the use of a strong hand and the
establishment of a certain national logic that suggested your name — Qadafi or
Mubarak or el-Abidine ben Ali - as a synonym for stability, for prosperity and even
pride. This seems to you like the most stable possible order. You know that someday
it might have to change, but that day seems a long way off. You delay reform. You
prepare your son to take over. Meanwhile, your citizens begin to acquire the
Internet and cell phones. And one day in 2008, following a financial crisis far away
from your own shores, you begin to notice an unnerving trend.

On the streets of Iceland and then Spain and then Chile and then Israel and Ukraine
and Turkey and Mexico and then New York City, thousands or hundreds of

thousands of citizens gather. There is no one leader of any of these protests. Instead
these movements breathe and grow like an organic whole. The discontent is diffuse

61

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018293
