2 .to engage the second phase if youso choose , and considering there is only 8 more to be paid this
year in oct, for the job now almost completed, total of 23. that was agreed only for history fix.

3. with the necessary proprietary protections , proposal is for first year only an additional 17 . making it 40
, but full year balance on signing , ie 25. takes care of 2013

4, moving forward , 40 per year ,( approx | percent ) for three years, to be credited against an agreed
formula. Im open to suggestions total approx 120 for new workover 3 years , benefits to you over the
next 20.

5, can consider interests other than cash as payment. ?

6. need to speak re , bankers, valuations, mechanics and their continued importance.

Date: Fri, Oct 16, 2015 at 4:38 AM

Subject:
To: Melanie Spinella (i ii i i>
Office, - adagoes. , hire heather a paralegal. Joslin goes or is closely managed by new cfo with tax

experience. . castrucii goes asap.as he merely adds to mess.( too many people , ex 7 people or more to
pay a bill) eva goes. outsource as much as possible... bookkeeping systems built from scratch,

airplane restructure, boat . same, new grats. phaidon sale , decide on artspace survivability, regan, . do
the kids really want these? , children accounting ie bens house.etc. re do estate for new facts. redo
loans, trading accounts activity, . gaming -foreign- disclosures. . BRH TRA re thinks . household and
construction architects. . redone. art partnership , choice of paintings. . re do structure of consultants.
tax re family office... decide if investments are a realistic option in the next three years.. insurance.
operations. airplane , etc. . art foundation , private. max charity contributions. financial reports. still
waiting. ? on line banking, . tax planning, family office deductions ( profit center ) . airplane certificate,
redone jet aviationredo. . paper gigi ( E )trust to avoid gift tax. .

today is Oct 15

With your full knowledge I paid out 8 mil to my staff before june, . soi guess I can safely assume that
after consideration of all the things I did for the entire past year separate and apart from your unique free
after care concept. , what you thought was ultimately fair was the contribution of 5 million to a
foundation and a total of 2 million dollars to me.

Date: Fri, Oct 16, 2015 at 1:08 PM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella <

I think you should consider the fact that your family office will be the most central component of what you
leave to your children , wife heirs. it is the core of your assets. your art might be sold. your houses may
lie empty, the apollo stock could be sold. you will pass on your office , . it will be the primary player in
your estate tax. probate, transition. Brad has taken it from aD minus toaC minus, IfI were youl
would set the goal of an A. just like your paintings. . Like a house you could attempt to renovate it. it
will take more time and money. or. in essence as I suggested in dec of 13, start from scratch. A
financail head of office. - brad could move to being richards replacment as trustee. . barry cohen would
be perfect but carries the trustee taint now. . take a tax partner from a major firm. to replace joslin,
cost 1+ mil . keep heather and ssmantha. . bring in full time IT person. ASAP . your lighting
contractor in your new townhouse has better IT than your multi billlion dollar antique opersation. data
breaches are not your concern. precision is. . either re do the office layout . or get enterly new space.
the proposals to focus on following on a monthly basis the values of all your current investments is an
example of misplaced prioirties. . Your office is the heart of the familys financial life and temp future,
it needs a heart operation

Date: Mon, Oct 19, 2015 at 5:10 PM

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023283
