Secret Agent | 25

quickly uncovering his true identity. He was listed by his true name
on the roster of the U.S. mission to the UN. By consulting personnel
records, one would further discover that he did not actually work for
the State Department. Because it was no secret that the U.S. mission
in Geneva housed the CIA station for all of Switzerland, any out-
sider would think it probable that this brittle gambler who played
the options market worked for the CIA.

Even though it cannot be precluded that Snowden was spotted
in Geneva by another intelligence service, there is no evidence, at
least that I know of, to suggest that he was approached by one. Nor
is there reason to believe that if he had been contacted by a for-
eign service in 2008, he would have responded positively. Despite
his indiscreet posting about his outside activities, he apparently still
respected the boundaries of secrecy that had been clearly defined in
the oath he had taken at the CIA. For example, after The New York
Times published an article revealing secret American intelligence
activities in Iran on January 11, 2009, Snowden railed against the
newspaper on the Internet under his TrueHooHa alias. He wrote,

© “This shit is classified for a reason.... It’s because this shit won't ®
work if Iran knows what we are doing.” He clearly recognized that
revealing intelligence sources was extremely damaging. As for the
Times, he said, “Hopefully they’Il finally go bankrupt this year.”
When another Internet user asked him if it was unethical to release
national security secrets, he answered, “ YEEEEEEEEEES.”

As with every CIA officer, Snowden had to undergo a two-year
evaluation and take a routine polygraph test. It was then, in Decem-
ber 2008, that his superior at the CIA placed a “derog” in his file, the
CIA’s shorthand for a derogatory comment, in an unfavorable evalu-
ation. The reason remains somewhat murky. According to a New
York Times story by the veteran intelligence reporter Eric Schmitt,
Snowden’s superior had suspected that Snowden “was trying to
break into classified computer files to which he was not authorized
to have access.” Schmitt evidently had well-placed sources in the
CIA. He said that he interviewed two senior American officials who
were familiar with the case. According to what they told Schmitt, the
CIA superior had decided to “send Snowden home.” Officially, how-

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 25 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019513
