4.2.12
WC: 191694

lately become —despite, perhaps even because of, the frequency and promiscuousness of its
invocation — little more than a caricature of logical argumentation. From the beginning of my
career as a First Amendment lawyer, I have taken aim at this analogy, both in my writings and in
my cases. In my view, it is one of the least persuasive, though most influential, arguments for
censorship that ever came from anyone’s pen!

The case that gave rise to the “Fire!’”’-in-a-crowded-theater analogy— Schenck v. United States—
involved the prosecution of Charles Schenck, who was the general secretary of the Socialist Party
in Philadelphia. In 1917 a jury found Schenck guilty of attempting to cause insubordination
among soldiers who had been drafted to fight in the First World War. He had circulated leaflets
urging draftees not to “submit to intimidation” by fighting in a war being conducted on behalf of
“Wall Street’s chosen few.” Schenck admitted that the intent of the pamphlet’s “impassioned
language” was to “influence” draftees to resist the draft. Nothing in the pamphlet suggested that
the draftees should use unlawful or violent means to oppose conscription. As Justice Holmes
found: “In form at least [the pamphlet] confined itself to peaceful measures, such as a petition for
the repeal of the act” and an exhortation to exercise “your right to assert your opposition to the
draft.” Many of the pamphlet’s words were quoted directly from the Constitution. It would hard
to . Aclear case of petitioning one’s government for a redress of grievances, which is
explicitly protected by the worlds of the First Amendment.

Holmes also acknowledged that “in many places and in ordinary times the defendants, in saying all
that was said in the circular, would have been within their constitutional rights.” “But,” he added,
“the character of every act depends upon the circumstances in which it is

done.” And to illustrate that truism he went on to say, “The most stringent protection of free
speech would not protect a man in falsely shouting fire in a theater, and causing a panic.”

Justice Holmes upheld the convictions, finding that the pamphlet created “a clear and present
danger” of hindering the war effort while our soldiers were fighting for their lives and our liberty.

The example of shouting “Fire!” obviously bore little relationship to the facts of the Schenck case.
The Schenck pamphlet contained a political message—a series of ideas and arguments. It urged
its draftee readers to think about the message and then — if they so chose — to act on it ina
lawful and nonviolent way. The man who shouts “Fire!” in a theater is neither sending a political
message nor inviting his listener to think about what he has said and decide what to do in a
rational, calculated manner. On the contrary, the message is designed to force action without
contemplation. The shout of “Fire!” is directed not to the mind and the conscience of the listener
but, rather, to his adrenaline and his feet. It is a stimulus to immediate action, not thoughtful
reflection.

> The core analogy is the nonverbal alarm, and the derivative example is the verbal shout. By cleverly substituting
the derivative shout for the core alarm, Holmes made it possible to analogize one set of words to another—as he

90

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017177
