78

Greenwald was an activist as well as a journalist. Like Poitras, he joined the board of directors
of the Freedom of the Press Foundation. The foundation, which eventually Runa Sandvik and
Micah Lee would join, had been set up expressly to funnel money to both Assange’s Wikileaks
site and the defense fund for Bradley Manning after he was arrested. Such a money laundry was
necessary because, as will be recalled, American credit card companies were blocking money
transfers to these two causes. This “blockade” was taking its toll on Wikileaks. According to
Assange, “WikiLeaks had been cut off from more than 90 percent of its finances.” So the
Freedom of the Press Foundation came to its rescue. John Perry Barlow, one of the song writers
for the Grateful Dead band, was one of its chief financial backers. “The first serious info war is
now engaged, Barlow declared. “The field of battle is WikiLeaks.” He served with Greenwald and
Poitras on its Board in December 2012.

Snowden was an avid reader of Greenwald’s screeds against the government. If he was to
assume the role of a modern-day Prometheus, delivering forbidden secrets of the NSA to the
public, Greenwald would be a logical candidate to break the story. Snowden could safely assume
that Greenwald would be sympathetic to exposing NSA surveillance from his many blogs, tweets
and YouTube comments on the subject. For example, on November 13 2012, just 18 days before
Snowden contacted him, Greenwald had written a blog in Guardian asserting that the United
States was “a surveillance state run amok.” In it, echoing very closely what Snowden said at his
Crypto party, Greenwald wrote that “any remnants of internet anonymity have been all but
obliterated by the union between the state and technology companies.” Citing a story in the
Washington Post, he continued: “Every day, collection systems at the National Security Agency
intercept and store 1.7 billion e-mails, phone calls and other types of communications. Asa
result, Greenwald called for action in his blog on November 13, 2012, writing: “The US
operates a sprawling, unaccountable Surveillance State that, in violent breach of the core
guarantees of the Fourth Amendment, monitors and records virtually everything even the most
law-abiding citizens do.” That same week Snowden invited Runa Sandvik to co-host his crypto

party.

One problem for Snowden was reaching out to Greenwald was Greenwald's lack of any
encryption for his e-mails. Communicating with a journalist like Greenwald who famously
attacked the very organization for which he worked was itself a risky undertaking, especially if he
wanted to pass classified NSA documents to him. If his emails were intercepted by the NSA in
Brazil (where Greenwald lived) and where the NSA was not restricted by US law, he could lose
his job or even be arrested. Under his alias Cincinnatus, he told Greenwald that he needed to
immediately encrypt his computer. To make his point, he cited Greenwald’s own November 12,
2012 blog. In it, Greenwald noted that General David Petraeus, then the CIA director, had been
caught in a minor sex scandal because his personal emails had been intercepted, Snowden wrote
Greenwald that Petraeus would not have been exposed if he had used encryption. Snowden also
sent Greenwald instruction on how to install the necessary encryption software and a link to a 12-

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020230
