Liquidity sovereigns

Liquidity sovereigns manage assets to stimulate
economies that are highly dependent on commodity
prices during a market shock. Due to the unpredictable
and sudden nature of outflows, liquidity sovereigns
have extremely short time horizons and prioritise
portfolio liquidity above investment returns. Despite
low yields of government bonds, liquidity sovereigns
are unable to seek higher returns from alternative
asset classes due to the inherent liquidity risk.

Development sovereigns

The asset and geographic allocation of development
sovereigns is driven by the requirement to encourage
local economic growth (rather than investment
return). Development sovereigns take large (often
controlling) stakes in companies of economic
significance in order to grow their presence in

the local market. While other sovereigns adjust
allocations to maximise their asset growth and yield,
development sovereigns consider their success

in economic metrics such as GDP growth and job
creation, working closely with their investments to
grow long-term strategic assets. This means that
development funds are relatively unreactive to
return shortfalls and asset allocation trends.

Central banks

Central banks are ‘lenders of last resort’ - managers
of a large foreign reserves portfolio to bail out
financial institutions of public importance. Due to

the importance of maintaining reserves to sufficiently
cover such requirements, preservation of capital

is of greatest importance. Central banks also have
high levels of public accountability and disclosure,
encouraging risk aversion through short time horizons
and highly liquid investments. While other sovereigns
invest in home market assets, central bank reserve
managers hold the majority of their assets in foreign
securities, increasing the importance of currency
exposure relative to other sovereigns.

Unlike sovereign investors, central banks have
objectives outside of reserves management, including
local market liquidity management and maintenance
of currency pegs. Since these external factors have
influence over the foreign reserves, in this study we
consider central banks separately from sovereign
investors. However, as many government bonds have
negative yields, certain central banks have looked to
invest in non-traditional asset classes (e.g. equities)
to preserve their capital, closer aligning their foreign
reserves investment strategy to that of sovereign
wealth funds.

Funding challenges
and the low return
environment have
unique implications
for each sovereign
segment.

Investment & liquidity

Liquidity sovereigns

(ale)

(DEV)

Investment & development

Development sovereigns

Capital p

Central banks!
(CB)

03

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026683

