Date: Fri, Mar 17, 2017 at 10:45 AM
Subject: RE: request for docs - AAP

To: Barry J. Cohen , jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com>
Cc: Brad Wechsler

Attached are:
1. Executed Version of AAP
2. Most Current Draft of AAP
3. Redline of 1 against 2
4. Summary of AAP from Vanessa Eng

From: Barry J. Cohen [mailto
Sent: Friday, March 17, 2017 8:

To: jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com>
Melanie Spinella a. Ada Clapp
Subject: request for docs

Cc: Brad Wechsler
I will organize. Copying Ada who has a lot of this.
Sent from my iPhone

On Mar 17, 2017, at 7:25 AM, jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com<mailto:jeevacation@gmail.com>> wrote:

can you send me latest bank art loan docs. BRH agreement. TRA agreement , agreement amongst
shareholders. . , org chart for phaidon , art space and regan arts.. . , ownership only,. - list of
invetsments , ownership of l.a. house.structure, / list of art by highest gain. . -

Date: Tue, Dec 29, 2015 at 7:26 AM
Subject: Fwd: leon DO NOT SEND, hand deliver.
To: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com>

Transaction complete !
. this - in spite of your collection of Elysium misfits. !!!

With Brad out of the office and unable to run his usual interference , the level of his utter incompetence was
brought front and center, he may be a step up from Eileen, but if he is, then it is not certainly not by much, .
Though you and I have spent many many hours discussing the importance of details and mechanics. I was not
shown one document re phaidon,- not one.. Brad wanted to keep it private between he and his so called
advisors  however as he was out of the office during the most important transaction of the year, I did get
to spend time with joslin Joe and john, - the situation in your office is wholly ludicrous - to summarize - the
list I provided to Brad last December - things I thought were a priority to get done after consulting with your
office still remains virtually undone.

IT, still desperately needed- reporting flawed cumbersome and inaccurate . all done by hand as one -off
exercises , - airplane: re structure, (my only suggested priority in june ) is really ,no further ahead, ,consultants
up the kazoo but nothing at all done.( the office was told that i cannot even see the proposals received without
brads specific authorization ) - brad has no idea even as to what questions to ask. he knows little of finance, is
run roughshod over by almost everyone in the office. he is a little man , using your power, to appear larger .
Eileen was self aware enough to know she was over her head , that is a huge difference. bad info is
rampant ie 3 million in deductions Im told are taken for art space but on closer examination it turns out
they cannot be used at all. (ZERO benefit ) though you will be told yes they were deducted on the return they
said that is the question they get asked !  were they deducted not -is there a benefit !! I asked for the
balance sheet and P and L for Regan arts , a basic first step in order to check your financials. sorry we never
got one? though 9.8 million invested, no p&l, nothing , a construction project run amok , no budget, the coo
fired after only 3 months. , no clue. I can add that artspace financials are also a total mess.

As your friend and in order toturn the page. I will try to be constructive

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023334
