of dependence upon God for what one is,
However, long one exists.” A human
being therefore depends upon God for
more than the fact of his or her birth: he
or she remains dependent upon God in
the same way ever after. God’s creation
of the world in general is simply not
temporally indexed; it is no more closely
associated with the beginning of things
than with what comes later. A
preoccupation with temporal origins
therefore commonly drops out of
Christian accounts of creation: the world
is just as dependent upon God for its
existence whether it has a beginning or
always exists.” Belief in God’s creation
of the world for these reasons blurs into
belief in God’s supportive maintenance
of it at every point in time.

Also enabling belief in God as
creator to form a general backdrop to all
one’s experience—to be relevant on
every occasion as a universally
applicable worldview--is the fact that
God is thought to be responsible as
creator for the whole of what happens in
the world at any one time. To believe
that God is the creator of the world is at
the very least to believe that God holds
into existence the entirety of the world in
any and all respects in which it is good.
In the case of one’s own life, therefore,
every aspect of value at every moment—
one’s existence, fine qualities and
capacities, enjoyments and
achievements, beneficial connections
with natural and social environments,
and so on—is to be attributed to God’s
agency as creator. While there is a good
deal of disagreement within Christianity
on this matter, Christians, moreover, not
uncommonly affirm that God is equally
behind the bad things that happen, at
least insofar as those bad things can be
turned to good account--for example,
harm suffered turned into a salutary

122

Page

pedagogical correction, just punishment
for sin, the necessary testing of one’s
faith, or simply a beneficial form of
sympathy with God’s own suffering on
the cross. For both the general reasons
just mentioned—because of its holism
and temporal inclusiveness--belief in
God as the creator of the world
encourages love, gratitude, and trust
toward God, and toward the world that
God brings about, as constant Christian
dispositions, basic Christian attitudes of
wide-ranging applicability, whatever
might be going on in one’s life.

Social Connectedness and Invisibility

The same all-inclusive causal
dependence upon God at all times is
what ensures individuals are never left
on their own, never abandoned to their
own devices. Christian theologians
(especially in the Protestant tradition)
usually develop the psychological
implications of this in terms of avoiding
either anxious or arrogant self-
concern.” According to this theology,
one does not believe he or she ever
operates independently of God.
Therefore, one should never attribute
successes and achievements in a prideful
way to oneself, but rather one should
always give the glory to God as their
ultimate source. For the same reason,
one should never despair of failings, as if
one’s own inadequacies were the last
word; one believes a supremely
powerful and loving influence, God,
remains an operative force in one’s life,
However, desperate the situation
otherwise appears to be from the
standpoint of one’s own powers and
capacities to improve one’s lot in life.

By discouraging isolated self-
regard or self-understanding generally,
the same nexus of Christian ideas about
God as creator has clear consequences

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021368
