Supreme Court Rejects Newman Requirement of “Pecuniary or Similarly Valuable” Personal
Benefit for Insider Trading Liability for Tipping Family and Friends (continued trom page 1)

as a personal benefit necessary to be held liable
for insider trading.? Sa/man will almost certainly
embolden the SEC and federal prosecutors to
bring more insider trading cases, because it Is
much easier for the government to prove a “gift”
to a “friend” than to prove a “pecuniary” or similar
quid pro quo.

In Sa/man, an investment banker at Citigroup
tipped his brother about certain pending health-
care mergers involving Citigroup clients. The
brother traded on that information for a profit,
and also tipped his brother-in-law, Mr. Salman,
who also traded for a profit. At trial, the govern-
ment relied solely on the tippers giving a gift of

inside information to a close family member to
satisfy the “personal benefit” requirement of tip-
per-tippee insider trading liability. The government
did not identify any money or other valuable quid
pro quo paid for the tip. Salman was convicted at
trial, and his conviction was upheld by the Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.

(continued on page 3)

Client Alert: Status of the New DOL Fiduciary Rule (continued from page 1)

a better commission for the adviser. The Obama
administration found that conflicted advice cost
savers about $17 billion a year based on a 2015
report. To be clear, the Rule applies only to retire-
ment accounts like 401(k)s and individual retire-
ment accounts (“IRAs”), not to regular taxable
accounts. According to the Investment Company
Institute, Americans invest $7.8 trillion in IRAs
and $7 trillion in 401(k)s.

On January 20, 2017, the DOL issued two new
sets of Frequently Asked Questions (“FAQs”) on
the Rule. One of the sets of FAQs focuses on the
new definition of fiduciary investment advice
and the other set is geared toward retirement
investors and consumers, covering consumer
protection features of the new Rule. This is the
second of three rounds of guidance to be pub-
lished by the DOL prior to the effective date of
the new Rule.

The Executive Branch also issued responses to
the Rule on January 20, 2017. The White House
issued a Memorandum from Reince Priebus to the
heads of the executive departments and agencies
requesting a sixty (60)-day delay as the effective
date of regulations published in the Office of the
Federal Register have not taken effect as of yet.

On February 3, 2017, President Trump signed a
presidential memorandum to delay the Rule by
six (6)-months, casting doubt on its viability.
The memorandum instructs the DOL to conduct

a new “economic and legal analysis’ to deter-
mine whether the Rule is likely to harm inves-
tors, disrupt the industry or cause an increase
in litigation and the price of advice. If the DOL
concludes that the regulation does hurt inves-
tors or firms, it can propose a rule “rescind-
ing or revising” the regulation. On March 1,
2017, the DOL issued a proposed rule, which
will extend the applicability date of its fidu-
ciary rule, including the Best Interest Contract
Exemption, from April 10, 2017 to June 9, 2017,
a 60-day delay.

Some are saying the Rule would hurt investors
because it would supposedly make it harder
for people to receive retirement advice. For
example, advisers would not be able to afford
to service low-balance retirement accounts.
On the other hand, consumer, labor and civil
rights groups have pushed for the Rule saying
that the current system provides a loophole
that lets brokers drain money from retirement
accounts in fees they receive that can sway
the investment advice they give their retire-
ment accounts. We see that many retirement
advisers already have chosen to act in their
clients’ best interests, opting to work under
the fiduciary standard—it is ultimately a
business advantage.

The FAQs are available on the DOL’s website
and the Memoranda are available on the White
House Press Office website.

FAQs
https://www.dol.gov/sites/default/files/ebsa/
about-ebsa/our-activities/resource-center/
faqs/coi-rules-and-exemptions-part-2. pdf

https://www.dol. gov/sites/default/files/ebsa/
about-ebsa/our-activities/resource-center/faqs/
consumer-protections-for-retirement-investors-
your-rights-and-financial-advisers.pdf

Memoranda

January 20, 2017—Regulatory Freeze Pending
Review
https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-
office/2017/01/20/memorandum-heads-execu-
tive-departments-and-agencies

February 3, 2017—Fiduciary Duty Rule

https ://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/
2017/02/03/ presidential-memorandum-fiduciary-
duty-rule

Daniel G. Viola is a Partner and the

Head of the Regulatory and Com-

pliance Group. He structures and

organizes broker-dealers, invest-

ment advisers, funds and regularly

counsels investment professionals

in connection with regulatory and

corporate matters. Mr. Viola served as a Senior Com-
pliance Examiner for the Northeast Regional Office of
the SEC, where he worked from 1992 through 1996.
During his tenure at the SEC, Mr. Viola worked on sev-
eral compliance inspection projects and enforcement
actions involving examinations of registered invest-
ment advisers, ensuring compliance with federal and
state secutities laws. Mr. Viola’s examination experi-
ence includes financial statement, performance adver-
lising, and disclosure document reviews, as well as,
analysis of investment adviser and hedge fund issues
arising under ERISA and blue sky laws. Dan can be
reached at 212.573.8038, or dviola@sglawyers.com.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019857
