9716/14

V3GR

Vermont Bence Conver
73 Lawer Welden Stree:
&. Abans, VF 5479-000) 1

BH: @.1 Non-doemagrent Vian Frirteen an bea! of Jean Lue Brun) :
h
Deer Ge of Modam. |

t enw Que Wier m strong support af Mr Jean Luc Brenela applicofcs 7 a mon

as tp Chee country, | am currently working os an Ageet et Two Munagerme im
Loe Angeles Based upen my standing im the faid of tic fashion industry | am equens:
cabed tc evaluate the credenualy of olber profreucnals om the field | hove been Ghee be
review the prafemecnal credentials of Mir. Jean lag Beane! It we oy peefedcicnel opmien.
based upon my persenel end profeaminonal kncwieige of Mr. Brincis talents, thar tr
Bravel u an art director of extrvordinary abihty eho ranks ameng the mal pArcentar? of
foreign preécesinna!s 31 wry top of hus bel.

3 greatly: admire Joan tue Brunet and ted 0 oa picasum f work win etic ao inlepied
Petia. Judang ty the high promie guecraa of she compearues with whieh he regulate
@roviea, chearty | am mot the nly om eho apprecigtes hie talant. Hie models! hese appeal ad
to bay ol the waeNe's saat pujzutar publicetiann, reaching bteraly mélioce 4! edinvers He
ts perticulerk: fumous for brs eerk i jechicn, advertining and educce! sorkl He
contrutiog to major chen, mich s¢ Galvle Kien, Genel, Christian Dot have aecured
him @ godtien as one of the leedmg ict iastuon art derectore working tddsy. Jean Lu;
Brunet is the consummate profeseqanel when tf comes bo the at of faahion god his work
efi: fiapieyed in worlds most eitte miagmemern A true arte. he mm cummiiied ta the
@ntielection of the chant on every gocasion. Although Mr Grune) covnmeneds the Regret
@aeapeentem for hee werk. be ta well worth Lhe cost.

Mr Jean Lut Grand Oo uoquesisunetty an cviividual of extnsondhnary trent, enerpy,
intereadional echwewsreent and ockraviedemcnt. hhould you Rees any questions iegerdhiag
My. fewnels extracrdmars atnlity, plemee (ccl free to contact me

Thenk you for your sthenuen ang conmderanen.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012003
