potential is spread out in a silent market...” It was generally believed that with
adequate spiritual preparation, ayahuasca could generate transcendent states that
allowed access to ones inner being and the beings of other worlds that could serve
as sources of mystical knowledge and healing. The Shams dervish of the 13
Century, wandering the Turkish portion of the Silk Road, used the word sohbet to
describe the inner land of mystical conversations about mystical subjects that their
turning meditation, whirling, and the shaman’s entheogenic compounds such as
DMT give entrance.

The question was whether our finding of DMT and its human brain enzyme
had been an artifact, an accidental laboratory fluke. Members of my neurochemical
research teams at the University of California Medical Schools in Irvine and La
Jolla, notably Dr. Lee Poth, now a professor of pediatric endocrinology at the
Uniform Services Medical School in Washington D.C., demonstrated that the DMT
synthesizing enzyme existed in the brains of recent accident victims that as far as
we were able to learn from their family and social histories, had been completely
psychologically normal. More than a little bit startled by this finding and worried
about making a sensational scientific mistake, we repeated the experiments with a
variety of controls with the same findings. Though our original estimates of the
human brain enzyme concentration were on the high side, we confirmed the general
finding and published them in Science in 1969 and Nature in 1970. Our carboline
work was published in the Journal of Neurochemistry in 1975. A year or so after our
Nature paper was published, the Nobel Prize winning neuropharmacologist at the
National Institutes of Mental Health, Julius Axelrod, confirmed the presence of the
DMT biosynthetic enzyme that converted the tryptophan product, tryptamine, to
DMT in mammalian brain tissue. We were both delighted and relieved.

We speculate, perhaps too grandly, that this finding, along with the beta
carboline human brain synthesizing capacity, supplies one of many possible
neurobiological and neurochemical mechanisms for the claims of the cross-cultural
universality of mystical experience. We all had human brains with these enzymes.
The idea that the phenomena accompanying primary religious experience were

common to all cultures was a major theme of the life’s work of the philosopher-

89

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013589
