Assume the following additional facts:

Under its company policy for a government transaction of this size, Company A requires both finance and compliance
approval. The finance officer is concerned that the discounts to Distributor are significantly larger than what they have
approved for similar work and will cut too deeply into Company A's profit margin. The finance officer is also skeptical about
including Local Partner to perform some of the same services that Company A is paying Distributor to perform. Unsatisfied
with Sales Executive's explanation, she requests a meeting with Distributor and Principal 1. At the meeting, Distributor
and Principal 1 offer vague and inconsistent justifications for the payments and fail to provide any supporting analysis, and
Principal 1 seems to have no real expertise in the industry. During a coffee break, Distributor comments to Sales Executive
that the finance officer is naive about “how business is done in my country.” Following the meeting, Sales Executive
dismisses the finance officer's concerns, assuring her that the proposed transaction structure is reasonable and legitimate.
Sales Executive also reminds the finance officer that “the deal is key to their growth in the industry.”

The compliance officer focuses his due diligence on vetting Distributor and Local Partner and hires a business investigative
firm to conduct a background check. Distributor appears reputable, capable, and financially stable and is willing to take on
real risk in the project, financial and otherwise. However, the compliance officer learns that Distributor has established an
off-shore bank account for the transaction. The compliance officer further learns that Local Partner’s business was organized
two years ago and appears financially stable but has no expertise in the industry and has established an off-shore shell
company and bank account to conduct this transaction. The background check also reveals that Principal 1 is a former college
roommate of a senior official of the Ministry of Immigration. The Sales Executive dismisses the compliance officer’s concerns,
commenting that what Local Partner does with its payments “isn’t our problem.” Sales Executive also strongly objects to the
compliance officer’s request to meet with Principal 1 to discuss the off-shore company and account, assuring him that it was
done for legitimate tax purposes and complaining that if Company A continues to “harass” Local Partner and Distributor, they
would partner with Company A's chief competitor. The compliance officer and the finance officer discuss their concerns with
each other but ultimately sign off on the deal even though their questions had not been answered. Their decision is motivated
in large part by their conversation with Sales Executive, who told them that this was the region's most important contract
and that the detailed FCPA questionnaires and robust anti-corruption representations in the contracts placed the burden on
Distributor and Local Partner to act ethically.

Company A goes forward with the Distributor and Local Partner agreements and wins the contract after six months. The
finance officer approves Company A’s payments to Local Partner via the offshore account, even though Local Partner's invoices
did not contain supporting detail or documentation of any services provided. Company A recorded the payments as legitimate
operational expenses on its books and records. Sales Executive received a large year-end bonus due to the award of the contract.

In fact, Local Partner and Distributor used part of the payments and discount margin, respectively, to funnel bribe payments
to several Ministry of Immigration officials, including Principal 1’s former college roommate, in exchange for awarding the
contract to Company A. Thousands of dollars are also wired to the personal offshore bank account of Sales Executive.

How would DOJ and SEC evaluate the potential FCPA liability of Company A and its employees?

This is not the case of a single “rogue employee” circumventing an otherwise robust compliance program. Although
Company A's finance and compliance officers had the correct instincts to scrutinize the structure and economics of the
transaction and the role of the third parties, their due diligence was incomplete. When the initial inquiry identified significant
red flags, they approved the transaction despite knowing that their concerns were unanswered or the answers they received
raised additional concerns and red flags. Relying on due diligence questionnaires and anti-corruption representations is
insufficient, particularly when the risks are readily apparent. Nor can Company A or its employees shield themselves from
liability because it was Distributor and Local Partner—rather than Company A directly—that made the payments.

The facts suggest that Sales Executive had actual knowledge of or was willfully blind to the consultant's payment of
the bribes. He also personally profited from the scheme (both from the kickback and from the bonus he received from the
company) and intentionally discouraged the finance and compliance officers from learning the full story. Sales Executive is
therefore subject to liability under the anti-bribery, books and records, and internal controls provisions of the FCPA, and
others may be as well. Company A may also be liable for violations of the anti-bribery, books and records, and internal
controls provisions of the FCPA given the number and significance of red flags that established a high probability of bribery
and the role of employees and agents acting on the company’s behalf.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022567
