Sovereign segmentation is crucial to understanding Investment sovereigns

attitudes and responses to external themes Investment sovereigns do not have any liabilities,
Economic challenges affect sovereigns differently, allowing for long time horizons and high exposure to
according to their liabilities, risk appetites, funding illiquid asset classes. Due to this investment freedom,
dynamics and other factors. We use the framework return targets are high - investment sovereigns have
in figure 1 to categorise sovereign investors. We will responded to falling returns by targeting greater
explore the unique implications of the themes in illiquid asset exposure (to generate higher returns)
this report for each of these segments. and developing internal management capability

(to capture more of the value chain), however many
funds are reaching limits on these allocations.

Liability sovereigns

Liability sovereigns are split into funds with existing
outflows (current liability sovereigns) and funds with
future liabilities (partial liability sovereigns). While
partial liability sovereigns have similar strategies

to investment sovereigns (due to their long time
horizons), matching outflows is a key concern

for funds with current liabilities. The return gap

is therefore of particular significance to liability
sovereigns and many funds expect their target rates
to eventually increase as they update models to
lower ‘risk free’ rates and increasing life expectancy.
To manage these concerns, many current liability
sovereigns are seeking greater exposure to high-
yielding asset classes.

Fig 1. Sovereign profile segmentation

Primary objective Investment only Investment & liability

Global sovereign profile Investment sovereigns Liability sovereigns
(INV) (LIA)

Sovereign investors €

‘Central banks have secondary liquidity objectives as well as primary capital preservation objectives. They are distinct from sovereigns through their role in local market
money supply and their regulatory function.

02

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026682
