So maybe Mr. Epstein is satisfied that he's getting his money's worth from his large
legal team, which includes Harvard Law School Professor Alan Dershowitz
(remember O.J. Simpson?) and Kenneth Starr (remember Monica Lewinsky?). Jack
Goldberger of West Palm Beach, who's also on the team, told Post columnist Jose
Lambiet in November: This case is absolutely going to end without a trial within
the next two months.”

He was wrong, but Mr. Goldberger remains on Mr. Epstein's payroll, feigning
moral outrage at two lawsuits filed this year against the Manhattan money
manager. The lawsuits allege sexual exploitation of teenaged girls, one of
them as young as 14. Said Mr. Goldberger after the first lawsuit, seeking
more than $50 million, was filed on Jan. 24: We think this shows what this
case is all about: money.” Yes, it is - Mr. Epstein's effort to buy his way out
of prosecution.

According to the lawyer of a 17-year-old whose parents are suing him, Mr. Epstein

masturbated in front of her (she was 14 at the time) and used a vibrator on her at his
home in February 2005. Another Epstein attorney, Lilly Ann Sanchez dismissed it:

Jeffrey Epstein did not have sex with this woman.

For those girls who claim that he did, Mr. Epstein's lawyers maintain that he did not
know their ages, despite a police search of his home and garbage that found phone
messages about the girls' school schedules and even a high school transcript. For all of
his money, Mr. Epstein's best defense remains I didn't know that I was a criminal
pervert?

Palm Beach Post Editorial #4

Rich man fought the law and he mostly won
Palm Beach Post Editorial

Monday, July 07, 2008

Two years after a grand jury indicted him on a felony charge of solicitation of
prostitution, Jeffrey Epstein finally admitted that he lured a teenage girl to his $8.5
million, 13,000-square-foot Palm Beach mansion for sex. A week ago, the 55-yearold
investment banker began serving 18 months in jail.

But that plea deal - guilty of felony solicitation of prostitution and procuring a

person under the age of 18 for prostitution - does not account for all five of the girls,

one as young as 14, who alleged that Epstein sexually abused them. And why is Epstein
serving his term in the overcrowded Palm Beach County Jail and not a state prison, where
inmates are sent if their sentences are longer than one year?

The slow, dissatisfying resolution of the case sends a message to the public

Post your that there's a different system of justice for the wealthy who hire high-
comments powered lawyers. Epstein's legal team included West Palm Beach defense
on this attorney Jack Goldberger, Harvard Law School Professor Alan Dershowitz,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021778
