asset globally where vols are up this year — and the one with broader consequences for neighbors (through EM Asian intervention
policy). Hence, this week's focus in our FX Markets Weekly on two other dimensions of the bearish yen view: what is the currency
worth if the BoJ successfully delivers 2% inflation, and how broad is the yen short.

° To those who believe in purchasing power parity (and we are not amongst them), USD/JPY could move to 100 on a credible
BoJ. Realizing these extreme targets requires Japanese participation in this yen move, since international investors could reach their
risk limits on yen shorts. So far domestics look fairly unconvinced. Japan has been posting net capital outflows (foreign purchases of
JGBs minus Japanese purchases of foreign bonds) since mid-2011, but the pace of those outflows has not increased since then-
candidate Shinzo Abe began calling for much looser monetary policy. Stay short yen on the possibility that locals join the move, but
rotate exposure. Book gains on a KRW/JPY one-touch, a USD/JPY seagull and CHF/JPY cash. Stay long NOK/JPY and re-enter
EUR/JPY (both in cash). Stay short USD vs a basket of AUD, RUB and KRW.

Commodities

° Commodities are up around 1% this week, with all sectors gaining ground. In Wednesday’s GMOS, we retained all our
previous positions. Our main trades are long Brent time spreads (long front vs. third futures contract), long industrial metals, long US
natural gas and short agriculture. Production losses in the North Sea should support our Brent trade, while the current economic
rebound in China should push industrial metals higher. US Natural gas should benefit from the ongoing switch from coal to gas for
power generation and 2013 should see the first slowdown in production since the boom began five years ago.

e The GSCI agriculture index has already reversed around 80% of its rise in summer 2012 as farmers have planted a much
larger area, which means a higher likelihood of much higher future supply. We stay short for now as we think this downtrend has
further to go. We are also long gasoil vs. Brent. Global inventories are very low and demand from Asia is picking up, consistent with
the economic data, which we expect to improve further over the coming months. An expected cold snap should also help push demand
higher through January

e We took profit on our long position in gold last Friday and year-to-date gold is down around 1%. We believe many investors
had bought gold over the past few years to hedge against the risk of “QE unlimited.” The recent FOMC minutes, however, have since
raised the risk of an early end to QE, reducing to need to hedge through gold. The risk is thus that a number of market participants will
reduce their gold hedges, pushing gold prices down further. We still like gold as a hedge against long-term inflation risks once global
growth returns to trend and we would look to reopen the position at around $1,550/oz..

Jan Loeys
(1-212) 834-5874

jan.loeys@jpmorgan.com

John Normand
(44-20) 7134-1816
john.normand@jpmorgan.com

Nikolaos Panigirtzoglou
(44-20) 7134-7815

nikolaos.panigirtzoglou@jpmorgan.com

Seamus Mac Gorain
(44-20) 7134-7761
seamus.macgorain@jpmorgan.com

Matthew Lehmann
(44-20) 7134-7813
matthew.m.lehmann@jpmorgan.com

Leo Evans
(44-20) 7742-2537
leonard.a.evans@jpmorgan.com

If you no longer wish to receive these e-mails then click here to unsubscribe www.jpmorganmarkets.com

Analyst certification: I certify that: (1) all of the views expressed in this research accurately reflect my personal views about any and all of the subject
securities or issuers; and (2) no part of my compensation was, is, or will be directly or indirectly related to the specific recommendations or views
expressed herein. Important disclosures, including price charts, are available for compendium reports and all J.P. Morgan—covered companies by
visiting https://mm.jpmorgan.com/disclosures/company, calling 1-800-477-0406, or e-mailing research.disclosure.inquiries@jpmorgan.com with

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031123
