system’s functionality.”134 Hackers, they mean, reveal the dangerous holes of our
new world. The bad news is that the worst of them (and often the best of them skill
wise) did this at times by swiping your data, your money and finally your peace of
mind. Their fortunes and safety and curiosity — all of these are woven together in
their hot hunger to touch and pull and break the roots of the network. In a world of
expanding connection, they are both more powerful and more dangerous than ever.

3.

Networked systems of our age are confronted, constantly, with diverse, dangerous
challenges, each informed by that Gordian paradox so familiar to us by now: The
more connected we are, the greater the risks. And as bank balances, secret jet
engine designs, and other priceless digital data are developed and then slipped
safely away on connected machines, the rewards for cracking into the systems grow
- far faster than the (near zero) costs of trying to break in. “It is increasingly
obvious,” security researchers F.X. Lindner and Sandro Gaycken have said, “that the
state of the art in Computer Network Defense is over a decade behind its
counterpart in Computer Network Offense. Even intelligence and military
organizations, considered to be the best positioned to defend their own
infrastructures, struggle to keep the constant onslaught of attackers with varying
motives, skills and resources at bay.”!35 The long list of failed US government
security attempts express a strange digital logic: The more essential it is that an
organization keep a secret, the less it seems able to do so. A decade behind? That is
the gap between a flip phone and an iPhone. In the hyperspeed world of technology
it is like confronting a laser weapon with a hoplite. The losing race slips easily
enough into Donald Rumsfeld’s aheader-behinder dynamic, the one that haunts the
paradoxes of national power we face now. Are we killing more terrorists than the
madrassas are producing? Rumsfeld wondered. We can ask: Are we plugging more
machines with more layers, software and applications than we can protect? Are we
making more bugs than we're patching? (Yes and yes.) “Attackers are not like
natural catastrophes,” Lindner and Gaycken write. “They can analyze their targets.”

Bratus, a math genius who turned to computer science out of curiosity and now
teaches at Dartmouth, has spent a fair amount of time trying to understand just
what happens when a computer or a network is exploited by a hacker, or “pwned” in
the funny idiom of Warez Dudes language. (The phrase means to take control, or to
“own” a system. The spelling is an artifact of an overenthusiastic video-game death
match gloat, in which one player killed another and in his rush to celebrate typed
something along the lines of “I pwned you!” The mis-typing lives today: The highest
award in hacking is known as The Pwnie.) Bratus calls the resulting, pwned device a

134 “Exploit engineers” :Sergei Bratus, et al. “Chapter 13: ‘Weird Machine’ Patterns”
in C. Blackwell and H. Zhu (eds.), Cyberpatterns, Springer International Publishing
Switzerland 2014, p. 13

135 Even intelligence: Felix “F.X” Lidner and Sandro Gaycken, “Back to Basics:
Beyond Network Hygiene”, in Best Practices in Computer Network Defense: Incident
Detection and Response, M.E. Hathaway (Ed.) IOS Press, 2014

98

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018330
