48

Such cases establish a worrying precedent of Chinese intrusion into American
academic life. The message from China to US universities is clear: Do not transgress the
political no-go zones of the Chinese Communist Party or government, or you will pay
a price. Sometimes the pressure is overt; other times it is more subtle and indirect, but
no less alarming. Some American faculty members report troubling conversations with
university administrators who continue to view Chinese students as such a lucrative
revenue stream that it should not be endangered by “needlessly irritating Chinese
authorities.”

Censorship and Self-Censorship

The final category of troubling Chinese influence on American campuses involves the
vexing issue of self-censorship among faculty and students in Chinese studies.*° In a
much-quoted essay, Perry Link described censorship within China as the use of vague
threats to induce academics, writers, and others to self-limit what they say; he called
this “the anaconda in the chandelier” syndrome.*! More recently, the phenomenon

has begun to loom over scholars working outside China, and the Chinese government
has started deploying a variety of techniques to also encourage self-censorship beyond
China’s borders, including in the United States. In some cases, this syndrome has led to
outright self-censorship of academic work. To cite some of the most egregious examples:

e Denial of visas to qualified scholars and students seeking access to China for
research or training purposes. The State Department estimates that fifteen to
twenty individuals are on an outright “black list,” while scores of others appear
to be on a “gray” list, where denials are less absolute and sometimes temporary
or limited only to certain categories of visa. But being cast into the “gray” status
helps create exactly the kind of uncertainty about what behavior might lead to
visa denial, thus inducing self-censorship in the hopes of not offending anyone
further, much less turning one’s status from “gray” to “black.” In other words,
the power to withhold or deny access through the issuance of visas affords the
Chinese government a full spectrum of powerful control mechanisms over
scholars.

e Denial of access to interviewees, archives, libraries, and research institutes, even
when visas are granted.

e Restriction of visiting scholar status for American researchers to a few institutes
under the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, and
some universities. Other think tanks and research institutes do not permit foreign
resident researchers. At the same time, it should be noted, Chinese researchers
from a wide variety of institutes are free to regularly come to US universities and
think tanks for short- and long-term stays.

Universities

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020507
