The Keys to the Kingdom Are Missing | 183

Moscow that were more embarrassing to America. In June 2015, the
WikiLeaks website released another putative Snowden document,
two years after he had supposedly wiped his computer clean in Hong
Kong. It revealed that the NSA had targeted the telephones of three
consecutive presidents of France—Jacques Chirac, Nicolas Sarkozy,
and Francois Hollande.

According to a former NSA official, this document, like the 2013
Merkel material, was not among the data on the thumb drive given
to journalists in Hong Kong, which Greenwald confirmed. Green-
wald suggested to The New York Times that it might have been sto-
len by another penetration in the NSA, presumably one who had
access to the same secret compartments as Snowden in 2013. Since
Greenwald and Poitras had no way of knowing about the documents
that Snowden did not give them, it is equally possible that the Rus-
sian intelligence services obtained this document from Snowden and
later gave it to WikiLeaks. The release on Assange’s WikiLeaks site
came in the midst of NATO war games held near the Russian border,
which Putin had vehemently denounced. The accompanying article

© was co-authored by Assange, who now claimed to have access to ®
Snowden’s NSA material. Because Assange had been in telephonic
contact with Snowden in Hong Kong, and his deputy, Sarah Har-
rison, had spent five months in Moscow with Snowden in 2013, it
is certainly possible Snowden was his source. But it seems difficult
to believe that Assange waited two years before publishing because
he has made it part of his modus operandi to publish documents
immediately. Because WikiLeaks receives documents anonymously
via its Tor software, any party with access to the Snowden files
could have sent it. Subsequently, in July 2016, Assange released via
WikiLeaks a cache of politically disruptive documents from the files
of the Democratic National Committee. U.S. intelligence strongly
suspected they been stolen by the Russian intelligence services and
sent to WikiLeaks. If so, Russia made use of Assange and WikiLeaks
to exploit selected fruits of its espionage activities

Greenwald and Poitras also released belated documents. On
July 15, 2015, their web publication, The Intercept, released a
Snowden document that cited an NSA intercept of an Israeli mili-
tary communication concerning an Israeli raid in Syria on August 1,

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 183 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019671
