Edwards adv. Epstein
Telephone interview with Virginia Roberts
Page 11 of 23

V: In a roundabout way, yes. In so many ways, Jeffrey really really had to train me, and that
was why Ghislaine said that she and Jeffrey enjoyed me so much was because they never
really had to speak much to me to tell me what they wanted me to do. You know, I
wasn’t waiting for you know, their directions. Jeffrey would tell me to go give an erotic
massage to friends. He wouldn’t give me much detail about it, but he would say to treat
them like you treat me.

JS: Did he refer to it as an erotic massage or are those your words?

V: Erotic massage is my words. That’s exactly what it was, but he would tell me to treat
them how he wanted it, so I'd do what he wanted without having to say to me words
more. I mean, I complied with what he wanted because it was somewhat of a, I don’t
know, I don’t know how to say it, it was just very mindboggling how I let him have so
much control or power over me basically. The massages would be routine to what Jeffrey
wanted with my so called new clientele, and with their own words would ask me to
provide them with sexual pleasure after the massage.

JS: Did you ever report back to Jeffrey about what happened when you provided massages to
his friends?

V: Of course, of course, and I knew that his friends were reporting back to him as well
because there were times where he would instigate conversation by saying you know, so
and so had a great time, you did wonderful, you know so and so gave me a call and told
J.E how it went_...

JS: Did Jeffrey ever elicit details from you? “Tell me what happened, describe in detail what
went on?”

V: No, but he would have a laugh, he had a laugh with me a few times about some of their
different mannerisms, I guess you would say, like some of them, one guy had a foot
fetish and that was really weird and I mentioned it to Jeffrey, and we would have a laugh
over it. He didn’t want to know details. He wasn’t asking me “so tell me what did you
guys do exactly.” No, he just basically gave me a slap on the back and said, you know,
good job. And we had some kind of conversation about it. I can’t recall any conversation
off the top of my head. I really don’t know one. It’s been that long. But yeah, we did
talk about it briefly.

JS: Can you give me an estimate as to the number of friends for whom Jeffrey provided and
paid for your services?

V: There was about, you know, I don’t know, 8 guys possibly.

JS: | And are you able to name those people for me?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015566
