however - that is all in the past.
In order to move forward

I would ask that you realize that very unlike yours, My business is only comprised of my personal
attention and my personal time . Time that I was forced to grossly overspend on your various issues
last year. . As you are my very close friend I will not have you participate in a bidding process that I
have decided 1 will have this year for my time . (hopefully a more fair way to allocate ) I would also
ask that you keep in mind that though our deal expired months ago. (also keeping in mind , that your
understanding of the final payment terms neither reflected the emails or my memory, we finished it up
your way. ) I have answered every call Brad , joslin, Ada or you, have made . reviewed docs over and
over/ until once again, I was forced to insert myself strongly as I thought it dangerous not to. I made
serious dollar and time concessions last year.very serious I am wiling to continue to accommodate
some of your concerns , but I am, under no circumstances , none, willing to spend my time for free.
its not fair. After cleaning up Carlyn's mess , which was a few weeks and 30 million dollars . We
were both highly aware of the dire circumstances in which you found yourself last year, and in fact due
predominately to its seriousness. and those very circumstances I took extra care in our negotiations .
(you had claimed I had you over a barrel , ( a horrible position to be in with my very close friend.),
unfortunately I fear that if you are not cautious ,in the near future, another barrel will appear of your
own design )

I heard you when you said you believed 1 had already been paid for the work that is now required. The
art partnership has fully answered all your concerns and discharged all my obligations and more so.
. (FYI Carlyns art partnership that you referenced is similar in only its title.) You will also recall
that you required that my payments be at the end of my work not at the beginning as everyone else's .(
my work was never to include hours upon hours of training your staff). I eventually agreed, this of
course should make clear that the 2014 tax year that will close Oct 2015 is not covered by our past
agreement at all. I pointed this very fact out to you when I initially proposed a multi year agreement
right out of the box. you said you preferred not. As you said ,I have produced results to date, far in
excess of even my own exalted opinion of my projections. I have devoted a monumental amount of my
limited amount of time-- way, way in excess of our agreement. I will be fair, I am willing to roll in
the amount still outstanding from last year if that helps .. However, As my best student , and my only
one, you are now capable of doing most, if not all, of the required work yourself. I can put my
whiteboard away when you come to eat and just have fun, trade stories,. share moments ideas etc.. I
am of course always available to guide you as a friend if you choose that route . always . It will take a
great deal of your time , but you will not have to spend any more money on mine .

We are scheduled to meet fri at 430 , I leave at 5 am sat morning.

Date: Tue, Feb 24, 2015 at 8:20 AM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella - tsi—<“itsSCS
Leon,

Yesterday , I again spent hours upon hours of my time with your office. ,( speak to brad to get
flavor) and you and 1 will discuss the results in gory gruesome detail on Friday. it mirrored many other
weeks spent doing the things that I don;t have the time to do.

In order to keep things in perspective, maybe reviewing an analogy I have used before with you,

might be helpful. You and your family are a 6 billion dollar corp. with an income between 250 -500
million dollars per year. It contains a few operating biz's , a large wide array of existing investments,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023268
