The central problem was that the president was neither inclined to make fun of himself,
nor particularly funny himself—at least not, in Conway’s description, “in that kind of
humorous way.”

George W. Bush had famously resisted the Correspondents’ Dinner and suffered
greatly at it, but he had prepped extensively, and every year he pulled out an acceptable
performance. But neither woman, confiding their concerns around the small table in
Conway’s office to a journalist they regarded as sympathetic, thought Trump had a
realistic chance of making the dinner anything like a success.

“He doesn’t appreciate cruel humor,” said Conway.
“His style is more old-fashioned,” said Hicks.

Both women, clearly seeing the Correspondents’ Dinner as an intractable problem, kept
characterizing the event as “unfair,” which, more generally, is how they characterized the
media’s view of Trump. “He’s unfairly portrayed.” “They don’t give him the benefit of the
doubt.” “He’s just not treated the way other presidents have been treated.”

The burden here for Conway and Hicks was their understanding that the president did
not see the media’s lack of regard for him as part of a political divide on which he stood
on a particular side. Instead, he perceived it as a deep personal attack on him: for entirely
unfair reasons, ad hominem reasons, the media just did not like him. Ridiculed him.
Cruelly. Why?

The journalist, trying to offer some comfort, told the two women there was a rumor
going around that Graydon Carter—the editor of Vanity Fair and host of one of the most
important parties of the Correspondents’ Dinner weekend, and, for decades, one of
Trump’s key tormentors in the media—was shortly going to be pushed out of the
magazine.

“Really?” said Hicks, jumping up. “Oh my God, can I tell him? Would that be okay?
He’ll want to know this.” She headed quickly downstairs to the Oval Office.

OOK Ok

Curiously, Conway and Hicks each portrayed a side of the president’s alter ego media
problem. Conway was the bitter antagonist, the mud-in-your-eye messenger who reliably
sent the media into paroxysms of outrage against the president. Hicks was the confidante
ever trying to get the president a break and some good ink in the only media he really
cared about—the media that most hated him. But as different as they were in their media
functions and temperament, both women had achieved remarkable influence in the
administration by serving as the key lieutenants responsible for addressing the president’s
most pressing concern, his media reputation.

While Trump was in most ways a conventional misogynist, in the workplace he was
much closer to women than to men. The former he confided in, the latter he held at arm’s

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020033
