We use an equal weighted, three-factor valuation framework (P/E, P/TBV, DCF) to arrive
at our PO of $14. We assigned a 1.2x multiple to 2Q17E TBV and a 12x multiple on
2017E EPS, with lower PTBV/PE multiple than peers assigned due to the higher
perceived risk of their lending model. Our DCF assumes a two-stage cost of capital of
9.4% and 11.5% and a terminal growth rate of 2%.

Upside risk to our price objective is a less onerous residential real estate cycle favorably
benefiting credit provision forecasts. Downside risks are a double dip in home prices
and a prolonged low rate environment.

Texas Capital Bancshares Inc. (TCBI)

We use a three-factor valuation framework (P/TBV, P/E, DCF) to arrive at our $74 price
objective and assign a 1.7x multiple to our 2Q17E TBV, below high growth peers due to
possible losses as a result of the downturn in energy prices. We place a 17x multiple on
our 2017E EPS, below TCBI's historical pre-crisis P/E multiple based on possible EPS
headwinds from their energy exposures. Our DCF assumes a two-stage cost of capital of
10% and a terminal growth rate of 4%.

Downside risks to our price objective are lower than expected oil prices and a slowdown
in economic activity in Texas. Upside risk to our price objective is better than expected
ramp up in MCA business, and sooner than expected hike in rates, faster than expected
recovery in oil prices.

The Blackstone Group (BX)

Our price objective (PO) for Blackstone is $29, which results in a target price-to-ENI
(P/ENI or P/E} multiple of 12x our 2017 ENI estimate. Our price objective is based on
our sum-of-the-parts (SOTP) analysis. Our SOTP analysis is based on the following
components: a target multiple on fee related earnings (16x - roughly in line with or a
premium to top tier asset manager multiples given healthy growth and sticky assets},
book value for the balance sheet investments and accrued carry, and a discounted value
on the performance fee upside over a cycle (1.5x MOIC). Based on this method, we value
the fee related earnings at $14/unit, the balance sheet (principal investments and
accrued carry) at $6/unit, and the discounted value of future carry income and
investment income at $9/unit, which equates to a total value of $29, in line with our
price objective.

Risks to our PO: a weak macro and capital markets backdrop, potential changes in tax
laws related to carried interest and partnerships, legal and political risk, increased
regulation, poor performance, weak fundraising, expansion risk, key person and talent
risk, competition, and a unique corporate structure that limits unitholder control.

The Carlyle Group (CG)

Our price objective (PO) for Carlyle is $18, which implies a target price-to-ENI (P/ENI or
P/E) multiple of 13x our 2017 ENI estimate. Our price objective is based on our sum-of-
the-parts (SOTP) analysis. Our SOTP analysis is based on the following components: a
target multiple on fee-related earnings (16x, roughly in line with or a premium to asset
manager multiples given growth outlook), book value for the balance sheet investments
and accrued carry, and a discounted value on the performance fee upside over a cycle
(1.5x MOIC). Based on this method, we value the fee-related earnings at $4 share, the
balance sheet at $5 share, and incentive upside at $9 share, which equates to a total
value of $18, in line with our price objective.

Risks to our PO: a weak macro and capital markets backdrop, potential changes in
carried interest and partnership tax laws, regulatory and political risk, poor performance,
weak fundraising, expansion risk, key person and talent risk, competition, a unique
corporate structure that limits shareholder control, a limited float, and share lock-ups
that could weigh on the stock.

Bankof America

Merrill Lynch 2016 Future of Financials Conference | 17 November 2016 73

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014387
