Chairman, Federal Trade
Commission, USA
Achankeng Leke Partner McKinsey & Company South Africa
Frédéric Lemoine Chairman of the Executive Board Wendel France
François J. Lenglet Editorial Director La Tribune France
Steve J. Lennon
Managing Director, Corporate Eskom Holdings Limited South Africa
Services Division
Sergio Leo Columnist, Senior Reporter Valor Econômico Brazil
Mark Leonard Director European Council on United Kingdom
Foreign Relations (ECFR)
Stefano Lepri International Economic Editor La Stampa Italy
Josh Lerner
Jacob H. Schiff Professor of
Harvard Business School USA
Investment Banking
Monique F. Leroux Chair of the Board, President and Desjardins Group
Canada
Chief Executive Officer
Aharon Leshno-Yaar Ambassador and Permanent
Representative of Israel to the United
Nations, Geneva
Rich Lesser Chairman, North and South America The Boston Consulting
Group
USA
Yves Leterme
Doris Leuthard
Prime Minister of Belgium
Federal Councillor of Environment,
Transport, Energy and
Communications of the Swiss
Confederation
Lord Levene Chairman Lloyd's United Kingdom
Richard C. Levin President Yale University USA
Alison Levine Mountaineer and President DareDevil Strategies USA
Zohar Levkovitz Chief Executive Officer Amobee USA
Maurice Lévy Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Publicis Groupe SA France
Freda Lewis-Hall
Executive Vice President, Chief
Medical Officer
Pfizer Inc.
Ursula von der Leyen Federal Minister of Labour and Social
Affairs of Germany
Li Daokui Director Center for China in the
People's Republic of
World Economy (CCWE) China
Ping Li Partner Accel Partners USA
Jason Li Yat-Sen Director The George Institute for Australia
Global Health
Bernard Liautaud General Partner Balderton Capital United Kingdom
Zachary Lieberman Artist and Computer Programmer thesystemis USA
Michael Liebreich Chief Executive Bloomberg New Energy United Kingdom
Finance
Michel M. Liès Chairman, Global Partnerships Swiss Reinsurance
Switzerland
Company Ltd
Ernst Ligteringen Chief Executive Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI)
Netherlands
Andrew Likierman Dean London Business School United Kingdom
Lin Yu Chief Executive Officer NetQin Mobile Inc. People's Republic of
China
Julio Linares Chief Operating Officer Telefonica SA Spain
Donald Lindsay
President and Chief Executive Officer
USA
It is the policy of the World Economic Forum to safeguard the privacy of its Members and participants by preventing any misuse of
personal information provided to us for the purpose of facilitating contact and dialogue in furtherance of the Forum’s mission.
• All participants in any World Economic Forum activity agree to treat any information related to the list of participants and
participant contact information as strictly confidential and to use it solely to facilitate personal communication among
participants of World Economic Forum activities.
• They agree that this information shall not be used for any other purpose, including solicitation for commercial endeavours.
In case of violation of this rule, the World Economic Forum reserves the right to take any action it deems appropriate and
necessary to protect the nature and the confidentiality of its activities.
World Economic Forum Annual Meeting 2011
