Epstein appears to have received highly unusual treatment 
while in jail, Acosta would say in a letter addressed to the gen-
eral public. Although the terms of confinement in a state prison 
are a matter appropriately left to the state of Florida and not fed-
eral authorities, without doubt, the treatment that he received 
while in state custody undermined the purpose of a jail sentence. 
And, of course, Epstein's stay at the Stockade was subsidized 
by taxpayers. 
205 
Fi 
CHAPTER 55 
R. Alexander Acosta's letter to the general public, 
March 20, 2011 
To whom it may concern: 
I served as U. S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida 
from 2005 through 2009. Over the past weeks, I have read 
much regarding Mr. Jeffrey Epstein. Some appears true, 
some appears distorted. I thought it appropriate to provide 
some background, with two caveats: (i) under Justice Depart-
ment guidelines, I cannot discuss privileged internal com-
munications among department attorneys and (ii) I no longer 
have access to the original documents, and as the matter is 
now nearly 4 years old, the precision of memory is reduced. 
The Epstein matter was originally presented to the 
Palm Beach County State Attorney. Palm Beach Police 
alleged that Epstein unlawfully hired underage high 
206 
school females to provic 
massages. Police sought 
resulted in a term of im 
reports, however, in 200( 
to concerns regarding th( 
to charge Epstein only 
assault with no intent tc 
would have resulted in 
register as a sexual offet 
underage victims. 
Local police were di! 
ney's conclusions, and res 
Federal authorities recei 
engaged in additional invt 
the quality of the evidenc( 
at trial. With a federal 
considerations. First, a 
requires that the crime be 
an interstate nexus. Seco] 
charged by the state, the fe 
extent, to back-stop state 
is no miscarriage of justice 
erally that which has alre 
level. 
After considering the q 
additional considerations, 
the state charge was insufi 
the prosecutors and age 
Mr. Epstein's attorney, Rc:, 
best known for his suc 
CHAPTER 55 
er to the general public, 
T the Southern District of Florida 
Dver the past weeks, I have read 
ey Epstein. Some appears true, 
thought it appropriate to provide 
D caveats: (i) under Justice Depart-
discuss privileged internal com-
ment attorneys and (ii) I no longer 
I. documents, and as the matter is 
precision of memory is reduced. 
was originally presented to the 
te Attorney. Palm Beach Police 
Ilawfully hired underage high 
206 
FILTHY RICH 
school females to provide him sexually lewd and erotic 
massages. Police sought felony charges that would have 
resulted in a term of imprisonment. According to press 
reports, however, in 2006 the State Attorney, in part due 
to concerns regarding the quality of the evidence, agreed 
to charge Epstein only with one count of aggravated 
assault with no intent to commit a felony. That charge 
would have resulted in no jail time, no requirement to 
register as a sexual offender and no restitution for the 
underage victims. 
Local police were dissatisfied with the State Attor-
ney's conclusions, and requested a federal investigation. 
Federal authorities received the State's evidence and 
engaged in additional investigation. Prosecutors weighed 
the quality of the evidence and the likelihood for success 
at trial. With a federal case, there were two additional 
considerations. First, a federal criminal prosecution 
requires that the crime be more than local; it must have 
an interstate nexus. Second, as the matter was initially 
charged by the state, the federal responsibility is, to some 
extent, to back-stop state authorities to ensure that there 
is no miscarriage of justice, and not to also prosecute fed-
erally that which has already been charged at the state 
level. 
After considering the quality of the evidence and the 
additional considerations, prosecutors concluded that 
the state charge was insufficient. In early summer 2007, 
the prosecutors and agents in this case met with 
Mr. Epstein's attorney, Roy Black. Mr. Black is perhaps 
best known for his successful defense of William 
207 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Fij 
Kennedy Smith. The prosecutors presented Epstein a 
choice: plead to more serious state felony charges (that 
would result in 2 years' imprisonment, registration as a 
sexual offender, and restitution for the victims) or else 
prepare for a federal felony trial. 
What followed was a year-long assault on the prose-
cution and the prosecutors. I use the word assault inten-
tionally, as the defense in this case was more aggressive 
than any which I, or the prosecutors in my office, had 
previously encountered. Mr. Epstein hired an army of 
legal superstars: Harvard Professor Alan Dershowitz, for-
mer Judge and then Pepperdine Law Dean Kenneth Starr, 
former Deputy Assistant to the President and then Kirk-
land & Ellis Partner Jay Lefkowitz, and several others, 
including prosecutors who had formerly worked in the 
U.S. Attorney's Office and in the Child Exploitation and 
Obscenity Section of the Justice Department. Defense 
attorneys next requested a meeting with me to challenge 
the prosecution and the terms previously presented by 
the prosecutors in their meeting with Mr. Black. The 
prosecution team and I met with defense counsel in Fall 
2007, and I reaffirmed the office's position: two years, 
registration and restitution, or trial. 
Over the next several months, the defense team pre-
sented argument after argument claiming that felony 
criminal proceedings against Epstein were unsupported 
by the evidence and lacked a basis in law, and that the 
office's insistence on jail-time was motivated by a zeal to 
overcharge a man merely because he is wealthy. They 
bolstered their arguments with legal opinions from 
208 
well-known legal expert 
team warned me that th€ 
good man to serve time • 
book if we continued tc 
office systematically con! 
ment, and when we di 
appealed to Washington. 
The defense strategy 
Defense counsel investiga 
their families, looking for 
provide a basis for disqual 
ecutor is an effective (thi 
eliminating the individua 
and thus most qualified to 
lihood for success. Defensi 
least two prosecutors. I 
rejected, these arguments. 
Despite the army of au 
the terms first presented 
meeting. On June 30, 2008 
appeal to Washington D.( 
guilty in state court. He NiNq 
onment, register as a sexua 
restitution to the victims. 
Some may feel that the I 
tougher. Evidence that has 
encourage that view. Man; 
out, filing detailed statemen 
ages. Physical evidence has 
these additional statements 
2, 
ATTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
ecutors presented Epstein a 
)us state felony charges (that 
prisonment, registration as a 
ation for the victims) or else 
trial. 
..ar-long assault on the prose-
. I use the word assault inten-
this case was more aggressive 
prosecutors in my office, had 
4r. Epstein hired an army of 
'rofessor Alan Dershowitz, for-
-dine Law Dean Kenneth Starr, 
3 the President and then Kirk-
_efkowitz, and several others, 
o had formerly worked in the 
in the Child Exploitation and 
Justice Department. Defense 
t meeting with me to challenge 
terms previously presented by 
meeting with Mr. Black. The 
let with defense counsel in Fall 
he office's position: two years, 
n, or trial. 
months, the defense team pre-
Lrgument claiming that felony 
tinst Epstein were unsupported 
ced a basis in law, and that the 
time was motivated by a zeal to 
ly because he is wealthy. They 
nts with legal opinions from 
208 
well-known legal experts. One member of the defense 
team warned me that the office's excess zeal in forcing a 
good man to serve time in jail might be the subject of a 
book if we continued to proceed with the matter. My 
office systematically considered and rejected each argu-
ment, and when we did, my office's decisions were 
appealed to Washington. As to the warning, I ignored it. 
The defense strategy was not limited to legal issues. 
Defense counsel investigated individual prosecutors and 
their families, looking for personal peccadilloes that may 
provide a basis for disqualification. Disqualifying a pros-
ecutor is an effective (though rarely used) strategy, as 
eliminating the individuals most familiar with the facts 
and thus most qualified to take a case to trial harms like-
lihood for success. Defense counsel tried to disqualify at 
least two prosecutors. I carefully reviewed, and then 
rejected, these arguments. 
Despite the army of attorneys, the office held firm to 
the terms first presented to Mr. Black in the original 
meeting. On June 30, 2008, after yet another last minute 
appeal to Washington D.C. was rejected, Epstein pled 
guilty in state court. He was to serve 18 months impris-
onment, register as a sexual offender for life, and provide 
restitution to the victims. 
Some may feel that the prosecution should have been 
tougher. Evidence that has come to light since 2007 may 
encourage that view. Many victims have since spoken 
out, filing detailed statements in civil cases seeking dam-
ages. Physical evidence has since been discovered. Had 
these additional statements and evidence been known, 
209 
JAMES PATTERSON 
the outcome may have been different. But they were not 
known to us at the time. 
A prosecution decision must be based on admissible 
facts known at the time. In cases of this type, those are 
unusually difficult because victims are frightened and 
often decline to testify or if they do speak, they give con-
tradictory statements. Our judgment in this case, based 
on the evidence known at the time, was that it was better 
to have a billionaire serve time in jail, register as a sex 
offender, and pay his victims restitution than risk a trial 
with a reduced likelihood of success. I supported that 
judgment then, and based on the state law as it then stood 
and the evidence known at the time, I would support that 
judgment again. 
Epstein's treatment, while in state custody, likewise 
may encourage the view that the office should have been 
tougher. Although the terms of confinement in a state 
prison are a matter appropriately left to the State of Flor-
ida, and not federal authorities, without doubt, the treat-
ment that he received while in state custody undermined 
the purpose of a jail sentence. 
Some may also believe that the prosecution should 
have been tougher in retaliation for the defense's tactics. 
The defense, arguably, often failed to negotiate in good 
faith. They would obtain concessions as part of a negotia-
tion and agree to proceed, only to change their minds, 
and appeal the office's position to Washington. The inves-
tigations into the family lives of individual prosecutors 
were, in my opinion, uncalled for, as were the accusations 
of bias and/or misconduct against individual prosecutors. 
210 
F: 
At times, some prosecut 
trial, and at times I felt t 
right in the first meetin 
spective of defense tacti 
tional right to a defense 
right should not be puni: 
sel's exercise of their ri 
Washington D.C. Proseci 
frustration and anger wi 
their judgment. 
After the plea, I reca 
One was from the FBI Sp( 
to offer congratulations. 
meetings regarding this c 
of the defense, and he cat 
holding firm against the 1 
itz, Lefkowitz and Starr. 
received calls or commun 
itz, Lefkowitz and Starr. I 
als previously, from my 
Kirkland & Ellis in the m 
peace. I agreed to talk an 
Epstein pled guilty, as I tt 
tors battle defense attorne 
have tried, yet I confess ti: 
fully in this case. 
The bottom line is this: 
served time in jail and is ni 
He has been required to pa) 
restitution clearly cannot c 
'ATTERSON 
n different. But they were not 
must be based on admissible 
1 cases of this type, those are 
e victims are frightened and 
they do speak, they give con-
• judgment in this case, based 
:he time, was that it was better 
time in jail, register as a sex 
ms restitution than risk a trial 
I of success. I supported that 
on the state law as it then stood 
: the time, I would support that 
Idle in state custody, likewise 
hat the office should have been 
rms of confinement in a state 
priately left to the State of Flor-
rities, without doubt, the treat-
le in state custody undermined 
nce. 
ve that the prosecution should 
Iliation for the defense's tactics. 
['ten failed to negotiate in good 
concessions as part of a negotia-
:d, only to change their minds, 
sition to Washington. The inves-
lives of individual prosecutors 
ailed for, as were the accusations 
:t against individual prosecutors. 
210 
FILTHY RICH 
At times, some prosecutors felt that we should just go to 
trial, and at times I felt that frustration myself. What was 
right in the first meeting, however, remained right irre-
spective of defense tactics. Individuals have a constitu-
tional right to a defense. The aggressive exercise of that 
right should not be punished, nor should a defense coun-
sel's exercise of their right to appeal a U.S Attorney to 
Washington D.C. Prosecutors must be careful not to allow 
frustration and anger with defense counsel to influence 
their judgment. 
After the plea, I recall receiving several phone calls. 
One was from the FBI Special Agent-In-Charge. He called 
to offer congratulations. He had been at many of the 
meetings regarding this case. He was aware of the tactics 
of the defense, and he called to praise our prosecutors for 
holding firm against the likes of Messrs. Black, Dershow-
itz, Lefkowitz and Starr. It was a proud moment. I also 
received calls or communications from Messrs. Dershow-
itz, Lefkowitz and Starr. I had known all three individu-
als previously, from my time in law school and at 
Kirkland & Ellis in the mid 90s. They all sought to make 
peace. I agreed to talk and meet with each of them after 
Epstein pled guilty, as I think it important that prosecu-
tors battle defense attorneys in a case and then move on. I 
have tried, yet I confess that this has been difficult to do 
fully in this case. 
The bottom line is this: Mr. Jeffrey Epstein, a billionaire, 
served time in jail and is now a registered sexual offender. 
He has been required to pay his victims restitution, though 
restitution clearly cannot compensate for the crime. And 
2/1 
JAMES PATTERSON 
we know much more today about his crimes because vic-
tims have come forward to speak out. Some may disagree 
with prosecutorial judgments made in this case, but 
those individuals are not the ones who at the time 
reviewed the evidence available for trial and assessed the 
likelihood of success. 
• Respectfully, 
R. Alexander Acosta 
Former U.S. Attorney 
Southern District of Florida 
PATTERSON 
7 about his crimes because vic-
speak out. Some may disagree 
lents made in this case, but 
,t the ones who at the time 
ilable for trial and assessed the 
PA i T 
• Respectfully, 
R. Alexander Acosta 
Former U.S. Attorney 
Southern District of Florida 
212 
ftermath 
CHAPTER 56 
Jeffrey Epstein: July 2009 
Jeffrey Epstein walks out of the Stockade on July 21, 2009, 
having served less than thirteen months of his eighteen-month 
sentence. One of the concessions his lawyers have gotten 
while working out his plea-deal guarantees is that the media not 
be alerted to the time and day of his departure. 
But from now on, Epstein, who is fifty-six, will carry the 
mark of a level 3 sex offender—level 1 being the lowest, and 
level 3 indicating the highest possible risk of a future criminal 
act of a sexual nature. Wherever he goes, he will be forced to reg-
ister as such. 
Every ninety days, Epstein will have to check in with the 
authorities. Every year, the New York City Police Department 
will take his mug shot. And for a full year, Epstein will be under 
house arrest in Palm Beach. 
This last prohibition doesn't stop him from flying, with court 
215 
JAMES PATTERSON 
approval, on his own planes to New York and to Little Saint Jeff's, 
where the locals have taken to referring to Epstein's 727 as the 
Lolita Express. 
There are other restrictions, of course, that Epstein is sup-
posed to abide by. He has to provide the state of Florida with a 
list of all the motor vehicles, boats, and airplanes he owns. The 
full list includes two Escalades, six Suburbans, two Ford F-150s, 
two Harley-Davidsons, a Land Rover, a Hummer H2, a thirty-
four-foot JVC boat, and a thirty-five-foot Donzi powerboat. 
Three of his five planes turn out to be registered to a com-
pany called Air Ghislaine, Inc. 
As a registered sex offender, Epstein is legally obliged to 
undergo psychiatric treatment. This is a restriction he'll get 
around by having his own psychologist submit a report to law 
enforcement officers. 
Epstein is also prohibited from accessing pornography on 
the Internet and using social networking for sexual purposes. 
For Jeffrey Epstein, there will be no Bangbros, Tinder, or 
Swingles. com. 
There will be lawsuits. 
Six weeks before probation ends, he settles with seven women 
who sue him in civil court. But Epstein can easily afford the set-
tlement payments. He won't be going back to jail, and in regard 
to further prosecution for any criminal actions, his troubles are 
behind him. 
Not everyone who's spent time in his company will be so 
lucky. 
216 
Alfredo Rodriguez: Aug 
E pstein's houseman, Al 
prison sentence. 
In a sworn statem 
maid, Lupita, who had comi 
up after Epstein's massage5 
lic, had cried as she describe 
Rodriguez was fired by I 
after seeing a strange car— g 
As it turned out, the ca 
masseuses. 
On his way out of the hc 
of Epstein's papers, which he 
by Chief Reiter's investigator. 
For years, Rodriguez tries 
manager. No one wanted tc 
IATTERSON 
New York and to Little Saint Jeff's, 
referring to Epstein's 727 as the 
s, of course, that Epstein is sup-
rovide the state of Florida with a 
oats, and airplanes he owns. The 
, six Suburbans, two Ford F-150s, 
1 Rover, a Hummer H2, a thirty-
-five-foot Donzi powerboat. 
rn out to be registered to a corn-
ler, Epstein is legally obliged to 
it. This is a restriction he'll get 
ychologist submit a report to law 
from accessing pornography on 
.etworking for sexual purposes. 
will be no Bangbros, Tinder, or 
ends, he settles with seven women 
it Epstein can easily afford the set-
e going back to jail, and in regard 
• criminal actions, his troubles are 
time in his company will be 
216 
CHAPTER 57 
Alfredo Rodriguez: August 2009 
Epstein's houseman, Alfredo Rodriguez, also ends up with a 
prison sentence. 
In a sworn statement, Rodriguez talks about Epstein's 
maid, Lupita, who had complained to him about having to clean 
up after Epstein's massages. Lupita, who was a devout Catho-
lic, had cried as she described the stained towel and sex toys. 
Rodriguez was fired by Epstein, he says, when he called 911 
after seeing a strange car—a beater —in Epstein's driveway. 
As it turned out, the car had belonged to one of Epstein's 
masseuses. 
On his way out of the house on El Brillo Way, he took some 
of Epstein's papers, which he failed to produce when questioned 
by Chief Reiter's investigators. 
For years, Rodriguez tried and failed to find work as a house 
nager. No one wanted to hire someone who'd worked for 
217 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Jeffrey Epstein. Finally, desperately, he tried to sell the informa-
tion he'd stolen. 
The papers named underage girls and the places where 
Epstein had taken them. The list included locations in Califor-
nia, Paris, New Mexico, New York, and Michigan. The papers 
also included the names, addresses, and phone numbers of 
famous individuals—Henry Kissinger, Mick Jagger, Dustin Hoff-
man, Ralph Fiennes, David Koch, Ted Kennedy, Donald Trump, 
Bill Richardson, Bill Clinton, and former Israeli prime minister 
Ehud Barak among them. 
This was intriguing, if not at all damning. Epstein made a 
habit of collecting such information for future use. But informa-
tion pertaining to the girls would have bolstered the state's case 
against Jeffrey Epstein, and by withholding it from the Palm 
Beach PD and the FBI, Rodriguez had committed a crime. 
In his defense, Rodriguez would say that the papers were an 
insurance policy. Without them, he believed, Epstein would 
have made him disappear. 
But now Rodriguez needed the money. And so a few weeks 
after Epstein's release from the Stockade, he approached a lawyer 
who was representing some of Epstein's masseuses. He had the 
holy grail, he insisted. A• golden nugget. The names of hun-
dreds of girls, he said, who had been abused by Epstein. 
The lawyer told Rodriguez in no uncertain terms that he was 
obliged to turn whatever he had over to the authorities. By 
demanding money for the information, Rodriguez was commit-
ting another crime. 
According to a sworn statement by Christina Pryor, a special. 
agent with the FBI, Rodriguez persisted that he would only turn 
over the information in his possession in exchange for $50,000. 
218 
Fr u. 
Two months later, on Octobe. 
who insisted once more on bi 
lawyer told him that an associ 
What the lawyer knew one 
the associate in question was. 
the FBI. A few days later, on I' 
guez and sets up a meeting, wl 
During the meeting, Roc 
book and several sheets of lega 
ten notes, Special Agent Pryo 
continues: 
Rodriguez explained that he 
his former employer's resid 
2004 to 2005 and that the ho 
working for his former emp 
detail the information within 
ant information to the UCE. I; 
he had previously lied to the. 
about the $50,000, took posse 
counting it. 
Rodriguez was then detai. 
Proceedings, Title 18, U.S. Co 
tioned. After Miranda warning 
Rodriguez waived his rights a 
those rights. Rodriguez admiti 
and book in his possession an 
to local law enforcement or th 
21 
?ATTERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
.ately, he tried to sell the informa-
rage girls and the places where 
list included locations in Califor-
York, and Michigan. The papers 
'dresses, and phone numbers of 
:issinger, Mick Jagger, Dustin Hoff-
Dch, Ted Kennedy, Donald Trump, 
and former Israeli prime minister 
)t at all damning. Epstein made a 
nation for future use. But informa-
Duld have bolstered the state's case 
by withholding it from the Palm 
;uez had committed a crime. 
would say that the papers were an 
them, he believed, Epstein would 
ed the money. And so a few weeks 
i.e Stockade, he approached a lawyer 
of Epstein's masseuses. He had the 
golden nugget. The names of hun-
ad been abused by Epstein. 
!z in no uncertain terms that he was 
le had over to the authorities. By 
iformation, Rodriguez was commit 
itement by Christina Pryor, a special 
tz persisted that he would only air, . .; 
0 
.ossession in exchange for $50,000. ...,. .) 
218 
* * * 
Two months later, on October 28, the lawyer called Rodriguez, 
who insisted once more on being paid for the information. The 
lawyer told him that an associate would be in touch. 
What the lawyer knew and Rodriguez did not know was that 
the associate in question was an undercover employee (UCE) of 
the FBI. A few days later, on November 2, the UCE calls Rodri-
guez and sets up a meeting, which takes place the following day. 
During the meeting, Rodriguez produced a small bound 
book and several sheets of legal pad paper containing handwrit-
ten notes, Special Agent Pryor would say in her statement. She 
continues: 
Rodriguez explained that he had taken the bound book from 
his former employer's residence while employed there in 
2004 to 2005 and that the book had been created by persons 
working for his former employer. Rodriguez discussed in 
detail the information within the book and identified import-
ant information to the UCE. In addition, Rodriguez admitted 
he had previously lied to the FBI. Rodriguez asked the UCE 
about the $50,000, took possession of the money, and began 
counting it. 
Rodriguez was then detained for Obstruction of Official 
Proceedings, Title 18, U.S. Code, Section 1512(c), and ques-
tioned. After Miranda warnings were administered by agents, 
Rodriguez waived his rights and signed a written waiver of 
those rights. Rodriguez admitted that he had the documents 
and book in his possession and had never turned them over 
to local law enforcement or the FBI. In addition, Rodriguez 
219 
JAMES PATTERSON 
advised he had witnessed nude girls whom he believed were 
underage at the pool area of his former employer's home, 
knew that his former employer was engaging in sexual con-
tact with underage girls, and had viewed pornographic 
images of underage girls on computers in his employer's 
home. Rodriguez was then released from custody for further 
investigation. 
The items that Rodriguez had attempted to sell to the 
UCE for $50,000.00 were reviewed by an agent familiar with 
the underlying criminal investigation. As Rodriguez had 
described, the items contained information material to the 
underlying investigation that would have been extremely use-
ful in investigatang] and prosecuting the case, including the 
names and contact information of material witnesses and 
additional victims. Had those items been produced in 
response to the inquiries of the state law enforcement officers 
or the FBI Special Agents, their contents would have been 
presented to the federal grand jury. 
Following his release, Alfredo Rodriguez was arrested again. 
He appeared in court on June 18, 2010, facing charges of cor-
ruptly concealing records and documents. Dressed in a blue 
jumpsuit and shackles, he apologized for his crimes and asked 
the court to be merciful. 
He received a sentence of eighteen months. 
It was the same punishment that Jeffrey Epstein had gotten 
for his crimes. But unlike Epstein, Alfredo Rodriguez served his 
time in a federal prison and did not ask for, or receive, permis-
sion to go on work release. 
220 
Prince Andrew: 2011 
p rince Andrew also fares 
imprisonment. 
The two men are old I 
Ghislaine Maxwell introduced] 
time in the 1990s. In 2000, Eps 
Castle to celebrate the queen's E 
flew to Sandringham, the quee) 
a party Prince Andrew threw for 
The prince had also visited 
Palm Beach as well as in New 
Roberts made in her 2015 decla 
asked her to give the prince Iv; 
back with the details. 
According to the Guardian, 
tied together at Windsor Castle, 
2; 
