ter. (Dobbs] stated she once tried to bring a 23-year-old 
female and Epstein stated that the female was too old. 
(Dobbs] stated that in total she only remembers six girls that 
she brought to see Epstein. Each time she was paid $200. 
[Dobbs] said at the time she brought these girls to Epstein's 
house they were all 14 through 16 [years] of age. 
Wendy Dobbs keeps talking. What she says about Mary's 
visit lines up neatly with what Mary's already told the police. 
Wendy's own experience with Epstein syncs up, too. But Wen-
dy's not a victim, as Mary is. After all, she's been playing on 
Epstein's team. Team predator. 
A police sergeant enters the room. What he wants to know is, 
does Wendy realize that she's implicated herself in Epstein's 
crimes? 
Beads of sweat form on Wendy's forehead, and now the police 
know they've really got her. She gives them phone numbers to go 
with the young girls she's named. She provides addresses. But 
no, Wendy doesn't quite get it. On the way home, in a police car, 
she brags in the backseat: 
I'm like a Heidi Fleiss, she tells the escorting officers. 
54 
Wendy Dobbs, inter 
Sergeant Frick, Oct( 
video (excerpts) 
RECAREY: Okay. Your* 
of all, I know you're 
Okay? I want to thar 
door's closed, you're 
you know, it's only c 
DOBBS: That's fine. 
RECAREY: I understan, 
case that we're look 
brought you here tod 
untarily. You agreed 
I do want to talk yc 
thing. 
DOBBS: And I don't neec 
ERSON 
stated to [Dobbs] that he 
tble, but he would pay her if 
:old her the younger the bet-
-ied to bring a 23-year-0ld 
it the female was too old. 
mly remembers six girls that 
eh time she was paid $200. 
ought these girls to Epstein's 
16 [years] of age. 
What she says about Mary's 
Mary's already told the police. 
4)stein syncs up, too. But Wen-
kfter all, she's been playing on 
700M. What he wants to know is, 
implicated herself in Epstein's 
dy's forehead, and now the police 
: gives them phone numbers to go 
aed. She provides addresses. But 
On the way home, in a police car, 
e tells the escorting officers. 
54 
CHAPTER 14 
Wendy Dobbs, interview with Detective Recarey and 
Sergeant Frick, October 3, 2005, transcribed from 
video (excerpts) 
RECAREY: Okay. Your Pepsi's coming, my Pepsi's coming. First 
of all, I know you're freaking out. Don't freak out, just relax. 
Okay? I want to thank you for coming. All right? Though the 
. door's closed, you're free to go at any time. You're not here—
you know, it's only closed for our privacy. 
DOBBS: That's fine. 
RECAREY: I understand that you may have information on a 
case that we're looking into, okay? That's the reason why I 
brought you here today. All right? And again, you're here vol-
untarily. You agreed to come back with us and talk to us. But 
I do want to talk you about Jeff Epstein, and the whole... 
thing. 
DOBBS: And I don't need a lawyer, right? 
55 
JAMES PATTERSON 
RECAREY: It's up to you. If you wanted one, you can have one. 
I can't tell you yes or no on that. That's totally [up] to you, I'm 
only — 
DOBBS: I'm not gonna get in trouble for anything I say, right? 
RECAREY: Right now, you're just a witness. I'm talking to you as 
a witness.... That's totally up to you. You wanna talk to me? 
DOBBS: I have no problem telling you everything I know. I'm a 
very cooperative person. 
RECAREY: Okay. How did you first meet, um.—
DOBBS: I first met Jeffrey—I was at a beach resort on Singer 
Island, and I was approached by this girl I went to school 
with. Her name was [redacted]. And she was asking me, you 
know, Oh, you need extra money, I know this guy.... I 
thought about it and I finally gave her a call, and her and her 
friend [redacted] met up with me. I actually picked them up 
and we drove down to Jeffrey's house. She introduced me, 
whatever. 
RECAREY: Okay. Now, what [do] you mean by making money, 
how do you make money with Jeffrey? 
DOBBS: Um, there's two ways. There's two ways you can make 
money. He'll, all right — 
RECAREY: That's all right. Talk to me. Talk to me like, like 
nothin'. 
DOBBS: How do I say— this is going to sound really sleazy, but 
RECAREY: No. Go ahead. Talk to me. 
DOBBS: Every girl that meets Jeffrey starts off with giving him a 
massage. The more you do with him, the more you make. 
Basically, if you take off your clothes, you're gonna make more. 
If you let him do things to you, you're gonna make more. 
RECAREY: Like do things you mean, touch you? 
56 
DOBBS: Yeah. Touch yoi 
RECAREY: Okay. Does I 
DOBBS: He uses his hand 
I guess it's like a ma 
that refused to do th 
but I wouldn't let hirr 
that he's like, You l 
you $200 for every 
don't want you to ma: 
girls to me.... So th; 
For every girl that yc 
that I brought to Jeffri 
there. 
RECAREY: Just to bring 
DOBBS: Yeah. Just to brir 
RECAREY: Okay. And t: 
would have to massag 
DOBBS: She knew ever)/ 
one of Jeffrey's rules. 
the house that didn't 
would tell me, you knc 
expect, make sure the 
I get in that room I di 
need to know. And, 
everything she was get 
RECAREY: Okay. What di 
DOBBS: I told her the sam 
Jeffrey --she came to r 
I basically told her at 
What do you have to 
TERSON 
wanted one, you can have one. 
it. That's totally [up] to you, I'm 
ble for anything I say, right? 
a witness. I'm talking to you as 
to you. You wanna talk to me? 
tg you everything I know. I'm a 
irst meet, um—
vas at a beach resort on Singer 
by this girl I went to school 
.!.d1. And she was asking me, you 
I money, I know this guy.... I 
y gave her a call, and her and her 
th me. I actually picked them up 
'rey's house. She introduced me, 
dol you mean by making money, 
•ith Jeffrey? 
. There's two ways you can make 
'alk to me. Talk to me like, like 
going to sound really sleazy, but 
k to me. 
Jeffrey starts off with giving him a 
lo with him, the more you make. 
ur clothes, you're gonna make more. 
you, you're gonna make more. 
,ou mean, touch you? 
56 
FILTHY RICH 
DOBBS: Yeah. Touch you in inappropriate places. 
RECAREY: Okay. Does he use his hand? Does he — 
DOBBS: He uses his hands and, I really wouldn't call it a vibrator — 
I guess it's like a massager? But urn—I was one of the girls 
that refused to do that. I did it basically my—I did it naked, 
but I wouldn't let him touch me or anything like that. So after 
that he's like, You know what? He's like, Listen, I'll pay 
you $200 for every girl that you bring to me. He's like, I 
don't want you to massage me anymore, you know, just bring 
girls to me.... So that's the other way you can make money. 
For every girl that you bring to the table—so, for every girl 
that I brought to Jeffrey—I would make $200. Flat. Just right 
there. 
RECAREY: Just to bring a girl. 
DOBBS: Yeah. Just to bring a girl. 
RECAREY: Okay. And the girl that was going knew that she 
would have to massage him. 
DOBBS: She knew everything. She knew everything. That was 
one of Jeffrey's rules. He had a problem with girls coming to 
the house that didn't know what they were getting into. He 
would tell me, you know, Make sure these girls know what I 
expect, make sure they know what they want, because when 
I get in that room I don't want them to—you know—they 
need to know. And, as far as [redacteas case, she knew 
everything she was getting herself into. It was all volunteer. 
RECAREY: Okay. What did you tell her that she was gonna do? 
DOBBS: I told her the same thing. I told her, you know, this guy 
Jeffrey—she came to me saying she needed money, da da da. 
I basically told her about it. She was like, urn, you know, 
What do you have to do? I told her. I was like, The more 
57 
DOBBS: The more she'd 
RECAREY: The more sh 
DOBBS: Yeah. 
RECAREY: So, she had i 
DOBBS: Urn, I don't kni 
ent stories on that. 
But when I was first 
who introduced me 
slept with him and r 
or secretary—told 
plays around with ti 
RECAREY: So, when yo 
happened between y 
DOBBS: Nothing. I woul 
RECAREY: Okay. Did h( 
DOBBS: I wouldn't say he 
pointed. But I'm not-
let him—I let him lo 
the question for him. 
kind of down-promoi 
bring girls. But as far 
RECAREY: Okay. How 
aside from [redacted 
DOBBS: Oh. Urn. A lot. 
RECAREY: A lot? 
DOBBS: Urn, let's see, th 
RECAREY: And all thest 
DOBBS: Every one of th( 
JAMES PATTERSON 
you do, the more you make. That's it. In order to make money, 
you're gonna have to go up there. You're gonna take your 
clothes off. But the more you do, is the more you make. She 
walked out of there with $300. So she obviously and evi-
dently let him do a little more. Plus, on our way home, she 
kinda told me what she did. 
RECAREY: Which was? Give the massage.... 
DOBBS: She gave the massage, and she basically let him, like, 
touch her, down there. Basically. 
RECAREY: Did he touch her with his hands? 
DOBBS: All with his hands. And then he brought out the mas-
sager. From what she told me. 
RECAREY: How old were you when you were approached to see 
Jeffrey? 
DOBBS: Um, I think I was seventeen? 
RECAREY: Seventeen. 
DOBBS: Sixteen or seventeen. 
RECAREY: Okay. When was the last time you talked to him? 
DOBBS: It's been a while. I can honestly say it's probably been 
about close to a year. About a year. I actually stopped work-
ing for him. 
RECAREY: Who was the last girl you brought over? 
DOBBS: The last girl I brought over was [redacted[.... 
RECAREY: Okay. You got paid two hundred bucks for taking her 
over? 
DOBBS: Yes. 
RECAREY: Okay. [Redacted] knew... 
DOBBS: She knew everything. 
RECAREY: That she'd have to massage him, and the more she did-
58 
TERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
aat's it. In order to make money, 
there. You're gonna take your 
do, is the more you make. She 
So she obviously and evi-
re. Plus, on our way home, she 
massage.... 
and she basically let him, like, 
ally. 
.h his hands? 
.d then he brought out the mas-
e. 
Alen you were approached to see 
ateen? 
Le last time you talked to him? 
n honestly say it's probably been 
it a year. I actually stopped work-
;irl you brought over? 
over was [redacted]. 
. two hundred bucks for taking her 
knew... 
aassage him, and the more she did 
58 
DOBBS: The more she'd make. 
RECAREY: The more she got paid. 
DOBBS: Yeah. 
RECAREY: So, she had intercourse with him. 
DOBBS: Urn, I don't know about the intercourse. I heard differ-
ent stories on that. I've never asked him Oh, you know ... 
But when I was first introduced to him, my friend [redacted] 
who introduced me to him, told me that she knew a girl who 
slept with him and made $1,000. But from what his intern—
or secretary—told me, is that he doesn't do that. He just 
plays around with them. So I heard two different stories. 
RECAREY: So, when you went and you massaged him, nothing 
happened between you two. 
DOBBS: Nothing. I wouldn't let him. 
RECAREY: Okay. Did he become forceful? Did he get upset? 
DOBBS: I wouldn't say he became upset. I think he was a little disap-
pointed. But I'm not—I didn't care. I knew I was getting paid. I 
let him—I let him look, but I never let him touch. It was out of 
the question for him. And I think that's pretty much why he just, 
kind of down-promoted me? He was just kind of like, You can 
bring girls. But as far as working, you know—
RECAREY: Okay. How many girls have you brought to him, 
aside from [redacted]? 
DOBBS: Oh. Urn. A lot. 
RECAREY: A lot? 
DOBBS: Um, let's see, there's [several redacted names].... 
RECAREY: And all these girls knew what they had to do? 
DOBBS: Every one of them. 
59 
JAMES PATTERSON 
ti 
RECAREY: How long have you been working for him? 
DOBBS: Um ...I probably worked for him for a year. 
RECAREY: Okay. And out of all these girls... 
DOBBS: Those were all the girls I brought. But you have to 
remember, those girls brought other girls, too. 
RECAREY: Oh, okay. 
DOBBS: So it's like—it's like a train. It's like, I introduced him to 
all my friends, and then ... it goes on and on, like that 
RECAREY: Okay.... [Redacted] being fourteen or fifteen at the 
time—' think [redacted] was fourteen when this happened 
who else was underage? Out of all these? 
DOBBS: Underage, what do you mean? 
RECAREY: Under eighteen. 
DOBBS: Under eighteen? All of 'ern 
RECAREY: All of them? 
DOBBS: All of them.... 
RECAREY: Okay. Did Jeff know anybody's real true age? Or he 
didn't care. 
DOBBS: I don't think he cared. He told me the younger the better. 
RECAREY: The younger the better. All right. 
DOBBS: Pretty much. That's how it worked. He didn't—let me 
just put it this way: I tried to bring him a woman who was 
twenty-three, and he didn't really like it. 
RECAREY: Didn't go for it. 
DOBBS: It's not that he didn't go for it. He just didn't care for it. 
And he likes the girls that [are] between the ages of, like, 
eighteen and twenty.... But some of them, I think, lie about 
their age. I know that when 1 started off young, I think he 
knew better [than] to believe me. I think he knew that I was 
60 
younger—like, sev 
teen. Most of those 
RECAREY: Let's talk at 
DOBBS: Okay. 
RECAREY: [Mary] at tl 
DOBBS: Mm-hmm. 
RECAREY: Okay. She 
she know you work 
DOBBS: I told her. 
RECAREY: You had tol 
DOBBS: Mm-hmm. 
RECAREY: Did you tell 
DOBBS: She knew ever 
RECAREY: Okay. So sh 
some kind of—
DOBBS: Contact. Prett) 
what his expectatio 
girls that go up thei 
I was like, If you 
you go in that room 
know he was goin4 
right now, he's exp€ 
RECAREY: Basically, tt 
DOBBS: Fondling — 
RECAREY: Fondling — 
DOBBS: Or whatever. A 
Just like, Just rem 
make. But that's—I 
brought up, told he] 
FILTHY RICH 
EERSON 
en working for him? 
for him for a year. 
aese girls... 
s I brought. But you have to 
t other girls, too. 
tin. It's like, I introduced him to 
goes on and on, like that. 
being fourteen or fifteen at the 
fourteen when this happened—
of all these? 
mean? 
em. 
v anybody's real true age? Or he 
le told me the younger the better. 
tter. All right. 
ow it worked. He didn't—let me 
to bring him a woman who was 
• really like it. 
go for it. He just didn't care for it. 
tt [are] between the ages of, like, 
it some of them, I think, lie about 
en I started off young, I think he 
,.ve me. I think he knew that I was 
60 
younger—like, seventeen—but I told him I was, like, eigh-
teen. Most of those girls lie when they go in there. 
RECAREY: Let's talk about [Mary] for a minute. 
DOBBS: Okay. 
RECAREY: [Mary] at the time was dating your cousin, right? 
DOBBS: Mm-hmm. 
RECAREY: Okay. She told you she needed to make money. Did 
she know you worked for Jeffrey? 
DOBBS: I told her. 
RECAREY: You had told her you worked for Jeffrey. 
DOBBS: Mm-hmm. 
RECAREY: Did you tell her what it entailed? So she knew that? 
DOBBS: She knew everything before she even agreed to it. 
RECAREY: Okay. So she knew that there was going to have to be 
some kind of—
DOBBS: Contact. Pretty much. Yeah. I told her. I told her exactly 
what his expectations were. I told her what goes on with the 
girls that go up there. I told her—it was like, It's your call. 
I was like, If you want to do this, fine. If not, fine. But when 
you go in that room, I don't want to hear you say, 'Oh, I didn't 
know he was going to do all that.' Because I'm telling you 
right now, he's expecting it. 
RECAREY: Basically, this is touching—
DOBBS: Fondling—
RECAREY: Fondling — 
DOBBS: Or whatever. And I told her when she went on her own. 
Just like, Just remember, the more you do, the more you 
make. But that's—that's up to you. And she asked me, and I 
brought up, told her I wouldn't do more. 
61 
JAMES PATTERSON 
RECAREY: Okay. You made that clear, you wouldn't do more. 
DOBBS: No. Screw that! 
RECAREY: But as far as Mary] is concerned. What did she tell 
you that happened in that room? 
DOBBS: Exact words? If I can recall, when she came downstairs 
from—when she came downstairs, me and her and [redacted 
we all walked out. We got into the car. And I was like, How 
much did you make? She's like, Three hundred dollars. And I 
looked at [Mary] and I just knew right then she did more. 
RECAREY: Than just a massage, right? 
DOBBS: Yeah. And I asked her. I was like, Well, what'd you do? 
She's like, Well, I started giving a massage, and then my 
clothes came off and, you know, he put his fingers inside me. 
And then he brought out the massager. And that's basically 
what she said. 
RECAREY: It's all right. You can talk to me. It's all right. 
DOBBS: It's kind of incredible talking about it, now that I—I 
can't believe I worked for him. 
RECAREY: But it's okay. You know what, we all go through 
things in life, you know what I mean? It's an experience. And 
you can put this experience behind you. 
Do girls that—people that you brought over—how did you 
approach them? That they were going to have to do this... 
Like, if they wanted to work, how did you approach them? 
Say, Listen, I got this guy in Palm Beach? 
DOBBS: Urn. .. Two of them were my friends. The others were, 
like, my acquaintances. It was a little more easier talking to 
them about it, 'cause, like, I knew them. 
62 
RECAREY: Take a de 
see you're workir 
can see it, and I d 
DOBBS: I, urn, pretty 
RECAREY: Straight u 
DOBBS: If you're loo 
down in Palm Be 
have to give him 
Then, if they were 
I'd go into detail 
they told me, Ye: 
I'd tell them, 01( 
you have to do, th 
RECAREY: Did you te 
from bringing the 
DOBBS: Most part? I 
were open about I 
was making mone 
RECAREY: Okay. Gil 
Gimme two secon 
• • • 
All right, I talked 
FRICK: —Which is NN 
DOBBS: Okay. 
FRICK: Obviously I 
at this point you cl 
You've taken girls 
prostitution. Mon 
those girls was fou 
significant second 
TERSON 
:lear, you wouldn't do more. 
s concerned. What did she tell 
m? 
:all, when she came downstairs 
tairs, me and her and [redacted], 
o the car. And I was like, How 
e, Three hundred dollars?' And I 
w right then she did more. 
right? 
was like, Well, what'd you do? 
;tying a massage, and then my 
ow, he put his fingers inside me. 
!. massager. And that's basically 
talk to me. It's all right. 
talking about it, now that I—I 
m. 
know what, we all go through 
at I mean? It's an experience. And 
: behind you. 
you brought over —how did you 
were going to have to do this... 
irk, how did you approach them? 
in Palm Beach? 
/ere my friends. The others were, 
was a little more easier talking to 
I knew them. 
62 
FILTHY RICH 
RECAREY: Take a deep breath. Take a deep breath. 'Cause I can 
see you're working up again. You're working up the tears, I 
can see it, and I don't want to get you like that. 
DOBBS: I, urn, pretty much I just would ask them — 
RECAREY: Straight up? 
DOBBS: If you're looking for extra money, let me know; this guy 
down in Palm Beach, he's really, really, really wealthy. You 
have to give him a massage. That's all I would tell them. 
Then, if they were interested or told me, Yes, I want to do it, 
I'd go into detail with them before they'd actually agree. If 
they told me, Yeah, that sounds good, I'm interested, then 
I'd tell them, Okay, well I'm gonna let you know, this is what 
you have to do, this is what's gonna go on. 
RECAREY: Did you tell them that you were going to make money 
from bringing them over? Or.—. 
DOBBS: Most part? I believe they knew.... Most of the girls, we 
were open about that. We didn't—they pretty much knew I 
was making money under the table. So... 
RECAREY: Okay. Gimme two seconds. Let me get the soda.... 
Gimme two seconds. 
All right, I talked to my boss a little bit — 
FRICK: —Which is why I'm here. 
DOBBS: Okay. 
FRICK: Obviously I was listening to what you were saying. And 
at this point you clearly implicated yourself on a crime, okay? 
You've taken girls to somebody's house for the purpose of 
prostitution. More importantly, more significantly, one of 
those girls was fourteen at the time, okay? Now that's a pretty 
significant second-degree felony, okay? I'm not going to kid 
63 
JAMES PATTERSON 
you, that is— it's a significant thing, okay? Now, you came 
in, you cooperated with us. The question we have for you 
now is, do you want to continue cooperating with us and try 
and help us make a case against Jeff? 
DOBBS: I don't think that's really going to help me in the long 
run, though. I've already admitted to a second-degree felony, 
right? 
FRICK: Yeah, you have. 
DOBBS: Okay, so there you go. What's going to keep me out of 
trouble? It's not going to keep me out of trouble. I've already 
admitted committing a crime. 
FRICK: I'm not going to argue with that.... 
DOBBS: So basically I just fucked myself. I can go two ways. I 
can agree not to cooperate, which is going to put me at — 
well—now you can use the second-degree felony against me. 
Or you can help and work with it and maybe get myself some 
slack.... 
FRICK: We're still talkin' here. What would the odds be of you 
contacting Jeff at this point? Have you had any contact with 
him at all? 
DOBBS: I have not had any contact — 
FRICK: How about with — 
DOBBS: No, none of 'em. None of 'em.... I had a phone call about 
four or five months ago, and I told my parents. Look, I swear 
to you I'm not anywhere—like, no connection with him at 
all. That's why I pretty much got my number changed. I have 
not made any communication with him. It stopped. 
FRICK: Okay. Well, I mean, that's good. That's good that you 
stopped.... 
64 
This is what we'd 
some of your ex-
Now, the questior 
working for Jeff, i. 
to Jeff? Or can w 
you make a call a 
know, these guys 
everything? Our 
right? 
RECAREY: With youi 
FRICK: Let me, let 
thing, okay? Then 
leading to the de 
second-degree fel( 
demeanor.... First 
not going to take y 
DOBBS: Not today. 
FRICK: Well, you're — 
ate and if we can-
not—that's not ur 
would do is if we I 
meanor, we'd give 
in, you know. 
RECAREY: You sign it 
FRICK: That's our pr 
forthright with us, 
RECAREY: Very truth. 
FRICK: Do you want I 
deal with it, or do• 
FILTHY RICH 
rERSON 
t thing, okay? Now, you came 
The question we have for you 
ue cooperating with us and try 
1st Jeff? 
y going to help me in the long 
Lilted to a second-degree felony, 
What's going to keep me out of 
p me out of trouble. I've already 
ith that.... 
ed myself. I can go two ways. I 
which is going to put me at — 
second-degree felony against me. 
ith it and maybe get myself some 
What would the odds be of you 
? Have you had any contact with 
act—
of 'em.... I had a phone call about 
d I told my parents. Look, I swear 
—like, no connection with him at 
ch got my number changed. I have 
lion with him. It stopped. 
that's good. That's good that you 
64 
This is what we'd like to do: We would like to reach out to 
some of your ex-friends and [unintelligible] talk to them. 
Now, the question is, do we think that they are currently still 
working for Jeff, in which case they would make a phone call 
to Jeff? Or can we just kinda show up and, you know, have 
you make a call as we're standing outside and say: Hey, you 
know, these guys wanna talk to you, and I've already told 'ern 
everything? Our goal is to make a better case against Jeff, all 
right? 
RECAREY: With your cooperation. 
FRICK: Let me, let me get back to—past--the cooperation 
thing, okay? There are lesser charges that can easily be filed: 
leading to the delinquency of a minor, as compared to a 
second-degree felony. You know what I mean? That's a mis-
demeanor.... First of all, I'll tell you straight up, okay, we're 
not going to take you to jail today.... 
DOBBS: Not today. 
FRICK: Well, you're—And here's the other thing: If you cooper-
ate and if we can—If you cooperate, whether we pull it off or 
not— that's not up to you, that's up to us, okay? So what we 
would do is if we ended up charging you with like a misde-
meanor, we'd give you a call, we'd say: Hey, you gotta come 
in, you know. 
RECAREY: You sign it.... 
FRICK: That's our preference. You come in, you've been very 
forthright with us, you've been very up front — 
RECAREY: Very truthful. 
FRICK: Do you want us to call your parents, or do you want to 
deal with it, or do you —As far as we're concerned you're an 
65 
JAMES PATTERSON 
adult, okay? You're nineteen. You do what you do. You know, 
we can drop you off at the end of the block if you'd like. Or 
we can cushion the blow beyond what—but again, you're 
helping us at this point. We've been pretty forthright with 
you on what is going on, our options for your future. And 
what we'd like you to do obviously is make a couple of calls 
with us this evening to talk to a couple of your, you know, 
these other girls. 
DOBBS: I'm not really on a ...Me and my parents really don't get 
along right now.. 
FRICK: So you'd prefer that — 
DOBBS: If they found out that I was—If they found out that I 
was into some other stuff.... I'm actually stripping now.... So 
they're not exactly happy with me at the moment, and I don't 
want to do anything that's going to piss 'ern off even 
furthermore. 
Michael Reiter: Oc 
Chief Reiter sifts 
underage girls - 
cured for Epste 
on El Brillo. An arre 
caught with a dime bo 
She'd told Detectiv 
very much like a rape 
Soon Reiter will a5 
more footwork to do, 
his office. 
Later that day, De 
arrive at the home of 
* Jenny's, Francine's, an( 
dialogue have been cha 
TERSON 
fou do what you do. You know, 
id of the block if you'd like. Or 
yond what—but again, you're 
've been pretty forthright with 
r options for your future. And 
iously is make a couple of calls 
to a couple of your, you know, 
and my parents really don't get 
I was they found out that I 
I'm actually stripping now.. .. So 
.th me at the moment, and I don't 
t's going to piss 'em off even 
66 
CHAPTER IS 
Michael Reiter: October 3, 2005 
Chief Reiter sifts through the evidence: information about 
underage girls—six of them—whom Wendy Dobbs pro-
cured for Epstein. Phone numbers pulled from the trash 
on El Brillo. An arrest report for Alison, the girl who'd been 
caught with a dime bag of weed. 
She'd told Detective Recarey about an encounter that sounded 
very much like a rape. 
Soon Reiter will ask a judge for a warrant. But not yet. There's 
more footwork to do, and Reiter calls Detective Joe Recarey into 
his office. 
Later that day, Detective Recarey and Sergeant George Frick 
arrive at the home of a girl named Jenny.* An older woman greets 
* Jenny's, Francine's, and Kristina's names, some identifying details, and 
dialogue have been changed. 
67 
JAMES PATTERSON 
them at the front door and invites them inside. She introduces 
them to her husband and daughter. Jenny is sixteen years old. 
Sitting down at the dining room table, they see that she's ner-
vous. In between biting her lip and fidgeting, she tells them that 
yes, she's been to Jeffrey Epstein's house. 
Wendy took her there once. But nothing much happened. 
She met Epstein's chef and spent some time in the kitchen is all. 
Then she left. 
I get what you're asking, she says. But really, I just want to 
put the whole thing behind me. 
Okay, the officers tell her. You have our numbers. But 
Jenny, if you remember anything else, you'll find that we're very 
good listeners. 
One down. Five to go. 
Detective Recarey and Detective Michael Dawson have better 
luck the next day with Francine, a girl who tells them that a year 
earlier, Wendy Dobbs—someone she knew from high school—
drove her to the house on El Brillo Way. 
Francine would have been seventeen at the time. 
Now she's willing to make a sworn statement. The officers 
noted: 
She was told she could make money working for Jeff. She was 
told she would have to provide a massage for Jeff. . She was 
brought to the kitchen area by (Dobbs]. They met with the 
house chef who was already in the Kitchen area. Francine 
stated [Wendy] would wait for her in the kitchen. 
Just as she did wit 
Francine upstairs and 
the room, wearing onl 
She kept her clothi 
sometime during th, 
and pulled her clos, 
uncomfortable by ti 
sion of the massage 
Do you have any 
cers ask. 
No, says Francine 
But she does have c 
Sarah's been callirq 
It could mean any r 
that Epstein's caught IN 
he's doing something 
responsibility. This tr( 
day, they get one more 
her parents around she 
It turns out that Jenny's 
And, it turns out, 
kitchen. Without her p 
talk about it. 
The first time she'd 
says, Epstein had tried 
FILTHY RICH 
FERSON 
:s them inside. She introduces 
her. Jenny is sixteen years old. 
table, they see that she's ner-
id fidgeting, she tells them that 
house. 
But nothing much happened. 
some time in the kitchen is all. 
e says. But really, I just want to 
You have our numbers. But 
g else, you'll find that we're very 
ve Michael Dawson have better 
a girl who tells them that a year 
ne she knew from high school — 
illo Way. 
3eventeen at the time. 
a sworn statement. The officers 
money working for Jeff. She was 
de a massage for Jeff. . . . She was 
by (Dobbs]. They met with the 
ly in the Kitchen area. Francine 
for her in the kitchen. 
68 
Just as she did with Mary, a woman named Sarah had taken 
Francine upstairs and into a bedroom. Then Epstein had entered 
the room, wearing only a towel. 
She kept her clothes on during the massage. She advised 
sometime during the massage, Epstein grabbed her buttocks 
and pulled her close to him. Francine said she was [made] 
uncomfortable by the incident involving Jeff. At the conclu-
sion of the massage she was paid $200.00 for the massage. 
Do you have any formal training in massages? the offi-
cers ask. 
No, says Francine. 
But she does have one more thing to tell them. 
Sarah's been calling Francine's cell phone. 
It could mean any number of things. The police know already 
that Epstein's caught wind of their investigation. Now it appears 
he's doing something about it, or at least he's delegating the 
responsibility. This troubles the cops. But then, on that same 
day, they get one more break: Jenny calls and says that without 
her parents around she's willing to make a sworn statement. 
It turns out that Jenny's visited with Epstein several times. 
And, it turns out, she'd done much more than sit in the 
kitchen. Without her parents around, she's much more willing to 
talk about it. 
The first time she'd gone to the house on El Brill° Way, she 
says, Epstein had tried to take off her shirt. She'd become upset, 
69 
JAMES PATTERSON 
and this had led to a fight— a verbal disagreement —with 
Epstein. • 
She'd left without getting paid. Gone down to the kitchen 
and told Wendy, Let's go! 
If you're uncomfortable, Wendy had told her, tell him to 
stop, and he will. 
On the other hand, Wendy had also told her, The more you 
do, the more you get paid. 
A few weeks later, she agreed to return to the house on El 
Brillo. 
Once again Sarah had taken Jenny upstairs and into the mas-
ter bedroom. Sarah had set up the massage table, laid out the oils 
that Jenny would use. 
Then Epstein had entered the room wearing only a towel. 
Jenny had been wearing tight jeans. She had a tight belt on. 
She kept the jeans on, though Epstein still made a grab for her 
buttocks. Then he rolled onto his back and grabbed for her 
breasts. Jenny became upset yet again. But this time, she was 
paid two hundred dollars before leaving. She never did go back 
to the house. But, like Francine, she has one more thing to tell 
the detectives. 
Another girl from her high school had been there on the day 
of her second visit with Epstein. Kristina. And later, Kristina 
told Jenny that she also had a problem with Epstein. 
Girls seemed to be turning up all the time. And the detec-
tives were just getting started. 
One girl leads Chief Reiter's team to another. And every time, 
they hear the same story. The girls are approached by Wendy 
70 
A 
1 
Dobbs. They drive ove: 
the kitchen—maybe sc 
they're walked upstair 
towel. Sometimes witl; 
mend their friends, anC 
None of the girls cc 
been trained as a mass1 
become a licensed mas: 
eighteen years old, at 
or GED. 
7ERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
verbal disagreement —with 
d. Gone down to the kitchen 
.ndy had told her, tell him to 
ad also told her, The more you 
d to return to the house on El 
•enny upstairs and into the mas-
e massage table, laid out the oils 
e room wearing only a towel. 
:it jeans. She had a tight belt on. 
Epstein still made a grab for her 
his back and grabbed for her 
et again. But this time, she was 
-e leaving. She never did go back 
e, she has one more thing to tell 
school had been there on the day 
An. Kristina. And later, Kristina 
problem with Epstein. 
g up all the time. And the detec-
team to another. And every time, 
Le girls are approached by Wendy 
70 
Dobbs. They drive over to Epstein's house. After a short wait in 
the kitchen—maybe some milk and cereal, if they feel hungry—
they're walked upstairs. Epstein's there, waiting, wearing his 
towel. Sometimes with a vibrator. Sometimes the girls recom-
mend their friends, and for this they receive a commission. 
None of the girls comes from money. And none of them has 
been trained as a masseuse. Then again, how could they be? To 
become a licensed massage apprentice in Florida, you need to be 
eighteen years old, at least, and have a high school diploma 
or GED. 
She considered Epstei 
further and further ur 
telling him she had a I 
CHAPTER 16 
Cynthia: October 6, 2005 
Three days after meeting with Francine, the police drive to 
Boca Raton. They're there to see Cynthia Selleck, who's 
eighteen years old.* But according to the probable-cause 
affidavit that the Palm Beach PD is preparing in order to obtain 
an arrest warrant for Epstein, Cynthia was sixteen when Wendy 
Dobbs first took her to meet him. 
During a sworn taped statement, she tells the police that 
she'd met Wendy at her high school. She says that Wendy had 
recruited her and prepped her for her first visit to Epstein's 
house. And she says she'd ended up going to the house a lot of 
times to provide massages over the past two years. The affidavit 
.-1 
--
states: 
* Cynthia SeHeck's name, some identifying details, and dialogue have been 
changed. 
72 
Only recently, Cynt 
clothes in the course of 
Jeff would try to get 
sage, she tells the cops. 
Still, Sarah had Cyi 
would call whenever E1 
appointment for work. 
Each time she went, . 
door area. She woulo 
massage table. [Cynt, 
questions about hers4 
player and would be al 
The cops want to kno 
[Cynthia] stated Epstei 
massage she provided 1 
October 1. 
That's less than a wee 
What the cops know i 
What they're about to 
FILTHY RICH 
She considered Epstein a pervert, and he kept pushing to go 
further and further until [Cynthia] explained she would keep 
telling him she had a boyfriend. 
CHAPTER 16 
rith Francine, the police drive to 
re to see Cynthia Selleck, who's 
according to the probable-cause 
) is preparing in order to obtain 
ynthia was sixteen when Wendy 
El. 
ement, she tells the police that 
chool. She says that Wendy had 
T for her first visit to Epstein's 
:d up going to the house a lot of 
the past two years. The affidavit 
itifying details, and dialogue have been 
72 
Only recently, Cynthia says, did she begin to remove her 
clothes in the course of giving Epstein massages. 
Jeff would try to get away with more and more on each mas-
sage, she tells the cops. 
Still, Sarah had Cynthia's cell phone number, and Sarah 
would call whenever Epstein was in Palm Beach to make an 
appointment for work. 
Each time she went, Sarah would meet her at the kitchen 
door area. She would bring her upstairs and prepare the 
massage table. [Cynthia] advised Epstein would ask her 
questions about herself Epstein knew she was a soccer 
player and would be attending [a nearby] university. 
The cops want to know: Did Epstein know her real age? 
[Cynthia] stated Epstein did and didn't care. The most recent 
massage she provided was on October 1, 2005. 
October 1. 
That's less than a week ago. 
What the cops know now is that Epstein's still at it. 
What they're about to learn seals Epstein's fate. 
73 
CHAPTER 17 
Alison: October ii, 2005 
After speaking with Cynthia, Detectives Recarey and Daw-
son meet up, once again, with Alison. It's been exactly one 
month since her arrest, and once again, she's willing to talk. 
They have no trouble obtaining her sworn taped statement. 
Alison is eighteen, but she's been going to Epstein's house 
since 2002. Things got off to a slow start, she says. She received 
two hundred dollars for her first session, during which she had 
her bra off but her underwear on. Still, at the end of the session, 
Epstein had asked for her number. 
Then the sessions got heavier. Much heavier, as Detective Recarey 
already knew. [Alison] stated that during her many visits a routine was 
established between her and Epstein, he wrote in his report. 
She would enter the house and get naked in the bedroom. She 
would then start with a back massage. Epstein would roll on 
74 
to his back and allow he 
stated Epstein would the 
the same time would ii 
masturbate her with his 
[Alison] explained 1 
until he ejaculated. He 
sager on her vagina unti 
that during her frequen 
age, [and Alison] stated 
not to tell anyone her re 
escalated within the how, 
[Alison] to have interco 
Marcinhova [sic. 1. [Alisor 
using strap on dildos, 
devices that Epstein had 
them have intercourse ( 
ally, Epstein would then 
intercourse and provide 
cinkova. This occurred d 
years of age. 
[Alison] advised thi.! 
years. The routine becc 
assistant Sarah would tel 
in the Town of Palm Be( 
for her to visit and won. 
new was introduced, ad( 
offered for [Alison] to all( 
sented to perform all the. 
was an understanding wi 
tion would occur with 
FILTHY RICH 
CHAPTER 17 
hia, Detectives Recarey and Daw-
, with Alison. It's been exactly one 
tnd once again, she's willing to talk. 
her sworn taped statement. 
e's been going to Epstein's house 
slow start, she says. She received 
Lrst session, during which she had 
on. Still, at the end of the session, 
['her. 
r. Much heavier, as Detective Recarey 
at during her many visits a routine was 
em, he wrote in his report. 
and get naked in the bedroom. She 
ch massage. Epstein would roll on 
74 
to his back and allow her to massage his chest area. [Alison] 
stated Epstein would then begin to masturbate himself and at 
the same time would insert his fingers in her vagina and 
masturbate her with his fingers. 
[Alison] explained Epstein would continue this process 
until he ejaculated. He would then utilize a vibrator/mas-
sager on her vagina until [Alison] climaxed. [Alison] advised 
that during her frequent visits, Epstein asked for her real 
age, [and Alison] stated she was sixteen. Epstein advised her 
not to tell anyone her real age. [Alison] advised that things 
escalated within the home as Epstein would instruct and pay 
[Alison] to have intercourse with his female friend, Nada 
Marcinkova [sic]. [Alison] explained the intercourse included 
using strap on dildos, large rubber penisIsic] and other 
devices that Epstein had at his disposal. Epstein would watch 
them have intercourse and masturbate himself. Occasion-
ally, Epstein would then join in during the female on female 
intercourse and provide oral sex to both [Alison] and Mar-
cinkova. This occurred during the time [Alison] was sixteen 
years of age. 
[Alison] advised this continued to escalate during two 
years. The routine became familiar to [Alison]. Epstein's 
assistant Sarah would telephone her every time Epstein was 
in the Town of Palm Beach and would place appointments 
for her to visit and work for Epstein. Each time something 
new was introduced, additional monies were produced and 
offered for [Alison] to allow the acts to happen. [Alison] con-
sented to perform all these acts but was adamant that there 
was an understanding with Epstein that no vaginal penetra-
tion would occur with his penis. [Alison] explained that 
75 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Epstein's penis was deformed. [She] explained that his penis 
was oval shaped. [She] claimed when Epstein's penis was 
erect, it was thick toward the bottom but was thin and small 
toward the head portion. [She] called Epstein's penis 
egg-shaped. [She] stated Epstein would photograph Mar-
cinkova and her naked and having sex and proudly display 
the photographs within the home. [Alison] stated during one 
visit to Epstein's house in which she provided a massage to 
Epstein, his female friend, Nada [sic] Marcinkova, was also 
present. [Alison] provided the massage in which Marcinkova 
and her would fondle each other's breasts and kiss for Epstein 
to enjoy. Towards the end of this massage, Epstein grabbed 
[Alison] and turned her over onto her stomach on the mas-
sage table and forcibly inserted his penis into her vagina: 
[Alison] stated Epstein began to pump his penis in her 
vagina. [She] became upset over this. She said her head was 
being held against the table forcibly, as he continued to pump 
inside her. She screamed No! and Epstein stopped. She told 
him that she did not want to have his penis inside of her. 
Epstein did not ejaculate inside of her and apologized for his 
actions and subsequently paid her a thousand dollars for 
that visit. [Alison] stated she knows he still displays her pho-
tographs through out the house. 
What happened to Mary had been bad enough. But what hap-
pened to Alison was on a whole other level. She'd been caught 
with some pot, sure. But that was hardly a felony offense. It didn't 
make her a liar. And, in important respects, Alison's statement 
had aligned with Mary's and with statements they'd been given 
76 
by other girls, including 
Probably not. Almost ce 
also in line with what di 
Detective Recarey az 
on the investigation that 
It was enough, Reit( 
search warrant. 
CERSON 
FILTHY RICH 
ihe] explained that his penis 
d when Epstein's penis was 
Atom but was thin and small 
;he] called Epstein's penis 
tein would photograph Mar-
ving sex and proudly display 
qe. [Alison] stated during one 
:h she provided a massage to 
la [sic] Marcinkova, was also 
massage in which Marcinkova 
breasts and kiss for Epstein 
:his massage, Epstein grabbed 
onto her stomach on the mas-
ted his penis into her vagina: 
m to pump his penis in her 
ver this. She said her head was 
rcibly, as he continued to pump 
1 and Epstein stopped. She told 
o have his penis inside of her. 
de of her and apologized for his 
lid her a thousand dollars for 
knows he still displays her pho-
ise. 
been bad enough. But what hap-
ole other level. She'd been caught 
vas hardly a felony offense. It didn't 
Drtant respects, Alison's statement 
with statements they'd been given 
76 
by other girls, including Wendy Dobbs. Could Wendy be trusted? 
Probably not. Almost certainly not. But again, what she said was 
also in line with what the police had heard from other girls. 
Detective Recarey and his team had done exceptional work 
on the investigation that Officer Pagan had started. 
It was enough, Reiter decided, to cause a judge to issue a 
search warrant. 
77 
CHAPTER 18 
Michael Reiter: October 2005 
0 n October 20, Palm Beach police officers execute a search 
warrant, signed by Judge Laura Johnson, at Jeffrey Epstein's 
home on El Brillo Way. Inside the house, an employee is 
on the phone with Epstein. They ask him, politely, to hang up. 
Then, guns drawn, they walk up the winding stairs to the home's 
second story. 
Detective Recarey remains outside and reads the warrant, out 
loud, to Epstein's houseman while another officer videotapes them. 
This is your copy, Recarey says as he hands over the war-
rant. When we are concluded, I will leave a list of what items 
we've taken, okay? I would ask that you don't answer your tele-
phone. I know that the gentleman was having a conversation 
with Mr. Epstein at the time. So I'm sure he's trying to call and 
find out what's going on. He will be told what was going on as 
soon as we're done. Okay? 
78 
Inside the house, del 
that Mary and other gir 
naked young girls—in sc 
Epstein. They also find n 
names, dates, and numbe 
Sometimes there are 
hers: I have girls for him 
These notes are signe 
Epstein's house has ; 
the bedrooms look alma 
off Epstein's bedroom, ti 
holding strange machin( 
find in a dermatologist's ( 
In a wood-colored ai 
bottle of peach-flavored 
soaps shaped like penis( 
more Joy Jelly, and boxes 
The officers find stacl 
and other B-list movies. 
They also find receipi 
SlaveCraft: Roadmaps for 
On the first floor, det 
hidden in clocks. On th 
photographs of Wendy 
come from the camera in 
The officers know wl 
install them—in 2004, 
had stolen a gun and $: 
investigated that case. 
man, Juan Alessi, for the 
CHAPTER 18 
05 
:h police officers execute a search 
Laura Johnson, at Jeffrey Epstein's 
Inside the house, an employee is 
.ey ask him, politely, to hang up. 
p the winding stairs to the home's 
putside and reads the warrant, out 
ile another officer videotapes them. 
says as he hands over the war-
I will leave a list of what items 
k that you don't answer your tele-
Leman was having a conversation 
So I'm sure he's trying to call and 
will be told what was going on as 
78 
FILTHY RICH 
Inside the house, detectives see the pink-and-green couch 
that Mary and other girls had described. They see photos of 
naked young girls—in some cases, girls they've spoken to about 
Epstein. They also find message pads on which are written first 
names, dates, and numbers for the girls. 
Sometimes there are notes to go with the names and num-
bers: I have girls for him. Or I have 2 girls for him. 
These notes are signed by one Sarah Kellen. 
Epstein's house has a strangely antiseptic quality. Some of 
the bedrooms look almost like doctors' offices. In the bathroom 
off Epstein's bedroom, there's a massage table as well as stands 
holding strange machines, which looked like something you'd 
find in a dermatologist's office. 
In a wood-colored armoire beside Epstein's bed, they see a 
bottle of peach-flavored Joy Jelly. In the bathroom, there are 
soaps shaped like penises and vaginas, bottles of Mango Mist, 
more Joy Jelly, and boxes of tampons. 
The officers find stacks of UFC videos and DVDs of Rock Star 
and other B-list movies. 
They also find receipts for books bought on Amazon, such as 
SlaveCraft: Roadmaps for Erotic Servitude. 
On the first floor, detectives are drawn to two secret cameras 
hidden in clocks. On the computer hard drive, they see several 
photographs of Wendy and other girls. These images appear to 
come from the camera inside the clock behind Epstein's desk. 
The officers know where the cameras are because they helped 
install them—in 2004, when Epstein complained that someone 
had stolen a gun and $2,700 from him. Detective Recarey had 
investigated that case. But before he could arrest Epstein's handy-
man, Juan Alessi, for the theft, Epstein contacted a captain in the 
79 
JAMES PATTERSON 
Palm Beach PD and prevailed upon him to have the investigation 
called off. 
Epstein had met Alessi at a luncheonette, he explained, and 
Alessi had agreed to pay back the money. At the time, it made no 
sense to prosecute: Epstein was a busy man. He was going to get 
his money. But he did invite the police into his home to install 
the cameras. This was a service that the Palm Beach PD provided 
(though Epstein would be the only one with access to the foot-
age). But while they were there, the police had noticed a group of 
attractive young women who seemed to be camped out at the 
house. 
The group included Sarah Kellen and Nadia Marcinkova. 
None of the girls was a relative of Epstein— that fact had 
caught the cops' attention. 
And now, as the search continues, the cops see photographs 
of the very same girls. 
On Epstein's desk, the officers find Alison's high school 
transcript. 
The thing is, the detectives can't shake the feeling that the 
Epstein house has been tidied up for their arrival. Shelves look 
as though they've been emptied, and several photographs appear 
to have been removed from the walls. 
[Judging] by the condition of the place to be searched, 
Chief Reiter will say in his deposition for B.B. vs. Epstein, some-
one probably had cleaned it up a bit. 
Maybe there's nothing too surprising about this. After all, 
Reiter's team knows that Epstein's gotten wind of their investiga-
tion. What is surprising is that for a house that's been scrubbed, 
there's so much left lying around. 
In fact, the oddest thing about the search is that someone,* 
80 
appears to have gone 
nating materials, but 
It was as if the th 
ister as wrong. 
There's another feelii 
that they themselves 
First Reiter hears 
yers have hired prii 
checks. 
A public-records 
Reiter's own records. 
Detective Recare) 
and that his trash ha. 
In his entire car( 
that Reiter's seen or 
ing his investigators. 
ey's doing great wonl 
and for good reason 
Right now, more vic. 
now that the warra) 
interviewing Epstein 
FILTHY RICH 
ERSON 
him to have the investigation 
icheonette, he explained, and 
noney. At the time, it made no 
3u5y man. He was going to get 
)olice into his home to install 
at the Palm Beach PD provided 
ly one with access to the foot-
Le police had noticed a group of 
rned to be camped out at the 
Lien and Nadia Marcinkova. 
tive of Epstein— that fact had 
.nues, the cops see photographs 
.cers find Alison's high school 
can't shake the feeling that the 
ap for their arrival. Shelves look 
, and several photographs appear 
walls. 
,n of the place to be searched, 
psition for B.B. vs. Epstein, some-
a bit. 
surprising about this. After all, 
in's gotten wind of their investiga-
for a house that's been scrubbed, 
ad. 
about the search is that someone 
80 
appears to have gone through the house, gotten rid of incrimi-
nating materials, but left many clues behind. 
It was as if the things the police were seeing didn't even reg-
ister as wrong. 
There's another feeling the cops can't shake: the nagging sense 
that they themselves are being investigated and tailed. 
First Reiter hears through the grapevine that Epstein's law-
yers have hired private investigators to perform background 
checks. 
A public-records demand has been filed in an effort to obtain 
Reiter's own records. 
Detective Recarey tells Reiter that he, too, is being surveilled 
and that his trash has been picked through. 
In his entire career as a police officer, this is the first time 
that Reiter's seen or heard of such a thing: a suspect investigat-
ing his investigators. But for the moment, he puts it aside. Recar-
ey's doing great work on the investigation. He's deeply invested, 
and for good reason: the detective's got four kids of his own. 
Right now, more victims are coming out of the woodwork. And 
now that the warrant's been executed, there's no downside to 
interviewing Epstein's servants. 
81 
CHAPTER 19 
Detective Recarey, Probable-Cause Affidavit: 
May 2006 
On November 21, 2005 I interviewed Jose [sic] Alessi, a for-
mer houseman for Jeffrey Epstein. Alessi stated he was 
employed for eleven years with Mr. Epstein, from approxi-
mately 1993 through 2004. Alessi stated he was the house 
manager, driver and house maintenance person. It was his 
responsibility to prepare the house for Epstein's arrival. 
When asked about cooks or assistants, Alessi stated they 
traveled with Epstein on his private plane. I asked Mr. Alessi 
about the massages that have occurred at. Epstein's home. 
Alessi stated Epstein receives three massages a day. Each 
masseuse that visited the house was different. Alessi stated 
that towards the end of his employment, the masseuses were 
younger and younger. When asked how young, Mr. Alessi 
stated they appeared to be sixteen or seventeen years of age 
82 
at the most. The m( 
or bathroom. He kr 
sage tables. I asked 
massage. Alessi sta 
of his employment 
sager/vibrator and 
sink after the mass( 
almost always have 
On January 4, 
man, Mr. Alfredo I 
ment, Mr. Rodrigu 
Epstein for approxii 
through May of 20C 
included being the b 
run errands for Ep 
asked Rodriguez 
Rodriguez stated E, 
Epstein would have 
massage in the aft 
Rodriguez stated h( 
and make them co 
Epstein would meet 
masseuses would or 
kitchen area and of) 
would then be encou 
They would be taker 
Rodriguez if any of 
Rodriguez stated th 
too young to be mass 
direction, he deliver, 
FILTHY RICH 
CHAPTER 19 
-Cause Affidavit: 
-viewed Jose [sic] Alessi, a for-
42stein. Alessi stated he was 
th Mr. Epstein, from approxi-
Oessi stated he was the house 
laintenance person. It was his 
e house for Epstein's arrival. 
assistants, Alessi stated they 
Private plane. I asked Mr. Alessi 
ye occurred at Epstein's home. 
three massages a day. Each 
luse was different. Alessi stated 
mployment, the masseuses were 
ri asked how young, Mr. Alessi 
ixteen or seventeen years of age 
82 
at the most. The massages would occur in Epstein's bedroom 
or bathroom. He knew this because he often set up the mas-
sage tables. I asked if there were things going on other than a 
massage. Alessi stated that there were times towards the end 
of his employment that he would have to wash off a mas-
sager/vibrator and a long rubber penis, which were in the 
sink after the massage. Additionally, he stated the bed would 
almost always have to be made after the massage. 
On January 4, 2006 I interviewed another former house-
man, Mr. Alfredo Rodriguez. During a sworn taped state-
ment, Mr. Rodriguez stated he was employed by Jeffrey 
Epstein for approximately six months, from November 2004 
through May of 2005. His responsibilities as house manager 
included being the butler, chauffeur, chef, houseman [and to] 
run errands for Epstein and provide for Epstein's guests. I 
asked Rodriguez about masseuses corning to the house. 
Rodriguez stated Epstein would have two massages a day. 
Epstein would have one massage in the morning and one 
massage in the afternoon everyday he was in residence. 
Rodriguez stated he would be informed to expect someone 
and make them comfortable until either Sarah Kellen- or 
Epstein would meet with them. Rodriguez stated once the 
masseuses would arrive, he would allow them entry into the 
kitchen area and offer them something to drink or eat. They 
would then be encountered by either Sarah Kellen or Epstein. 
They would be taken upstairs to provide the massage. I asked 
Rodriguez if any of the masseuses appeared young in age. 
Rodriguez stated the girls that would come appeared to be 
too young to be masseuses. He stated one time under Epstein's 
direction, he delivered a dozen roses to [Mary's high school] 
83 
JAMES PATTERSON 
for one of the girls that came to provide a massage. He knew 
the girls were still in high school and were of high school age. 
I asked Rodriguez about the massages. He felt there was a lot 
more going on than just massages. 
He would often clean Mr. Epstein's bedroom after the 
alleged massages and would discover massagers/vibrators 
and sex toys scattered on the floor. He also said he would 
wipe down the vibrators and sex toys and put them away in 
an armoire. He described the armoire as a small wood 
armoire which was on the wall close to Epstein's bed. On one 
occasion Epstein ordered Rodriguez to go to the Dollar rent a 
car and rent a car for the same girl he brought the roses to, so 
that she could drive her self to Epstein's house without inci-
dent. Rodriguez said the girl always needed rides to and 
from the house. 
Rodriguez produced a green folder which contained doc-
uments, and a note with Mr. Epstein's stationery with direc-
tion to deliver a bucket of roses to (Mary's] High School after 
fa] high school drama performance. . . . 
During the course of the investigation, subpoenas were 
obtained for cell phone and home phone records from several 
victims and witnesses along with the cell phone records of 
Sarah Kellen. An analysis of these records was conducted 
which found numerous telephone calls were made between 
Sarah Kellen and the victims. These records indicate the 
dates the calls were made are consistent with the dates and 
times the victims/witnesses stated they were contacted. Spe-
cifically, the phone records showed Kellen called [Wendy 
Dobbs] during the exact times and dates when [name 
redacted] advised the incident occurred. Kellen also coordi-
84 
nated the encounters 
frame the girls stated 
Pursuant to a 
vate plane records fi 
records show arrivai 
Palm Beach Internati 
pared to the cell phon4 
ison found that all th 
and the victims were 
arrival or during the 
Therefore, as Jeff 
incidents was fifty on 
course either with i 
redacted], who were n 
is sufficient probable 
four counts of Unlawft 
lation of Florida State 
ony. As Epstein, who a 
years of age, did use a 
of [name redacted], a j 
cient probable cause ti 
ous Molestation, in vio 
(5), a second degree fel 
FILTHY RICH 
ERSON 
9rovide a massage. He knew 
and were of high school age. 
;sages. He felt there was a lot 
s. 
Epstein's bedroom after the 
liscover massagers/vibrators 
floor. He also said he would 
toys and put them away in 
armoire as a small wood 
close to Epstein's bed. On one 
guez to go to the Dollar rent a 
girl he brought the roses to, so 
Epstein's house without inci-
always needed rides to and 
en folder which contained doc-
Epstein's stationery with direc-
s to [Mary's] High School after 
nance.... 
investigation, subpoenas were 
9me phone records from several 
with the cell phone records of 
).1 these records was conducted 
phone calls were made between 
ms. These records indicate the 
re consistent with the dates and 
stated they were contacted. Spe-
showed Kellen called (Wendy 
times and dates when (name 
nt occurred. Kellen also coordi-
nated the encounters with [name redacted] during the time 
frame the girls stated they occurred. 
Pursuant to a lawful subpoena I obtained Epstein's pri-
vate plane records for 2005 from Jet Aviation. The plane 
records show arrival and departure of Epstein's plane at 
Palm Beach International airport. These records were com-
pared to the cell phone records of Sarah Kellen. This compar-
ison found that all the phone calls Kellen made to [Dobbs] 
and the victims were made in the days just prior to their 
arrival or during the time Epstein was in Palm Beach. 
Therefore, as Jeffrey Epstein, who at the time of these 
incidents was fifty one years of age, did have vaginal inter-
course either with his penis or digitally with [names 
redacted], who were minors at the time this occurred, there 
is sufficient probable cause to charge Jeffrey Epstein with 
four counts of Unlawful Sexual Activity with a Minor, in vio-
lation of Florida State Statute 794.05(1), a second degree fel-
ony. As Epstein, who at the time of the incident was fifty two 
years of age, did use a vibrator on the external vaginal area 
of [name redacted], a fourteen year old minor, there is suffi-
cient probable cause to charge him with Lewd and Lascivi-
ous Molestation, in violation of Florida State Statute 800.04 
(5), a second degree felony. 
84 85 
PART II 
The Man 
Wit 
