between human choice and machine intelligence? Why is one computer system
better than another? These decisions - and the people who make them - will
determine power distributions. They will reverberate through our future with the
same constant noise as the Bill of Rights, the Magna Carta, the Analects or the Koran
still do. The real contests ahead will be over networks, and we will come to
understand in this book how these struggles will unfold and how to fight them - but
keep in mind that this means, in fact, a deeper conflict. A fight about values.
Networks are like any organized system; they reflect the aims and ethics and habits
of the people who build them. The price of meshing so many different aims and
sensibilities, hopes and hatreds, will be costly. When Nan said that really, fully
grasping our world would be expensive this is what he meant. Particularly if he’s
right that we'll all be going half mad under the pressures of constant connection as
we try to make the shift. We will pay with our old ideas, our current fortunes and - if
we're not careful - our safety.

Engineers know this idea that network design shapes the real world as “Conway’s
Law.”21 Melvin Conway was an early AT&T systems designer who noticed that the
organization of any connected telephone system had an impact on the communities
or offices it touched. Who could call who was a kind of power map. The physical
world, Conway realized, could be shaped and influenced by something other than a
physical force; it could be reshaped by information flows, by connection. The
expansion of airline routes to Indonesia, for instance, was a network design change
that tilted real-life economic patterns. New flights enabled tourism, manufacturing,
investment. In our connected age, the design of research studies, voter databases,
genetic information sharing networks, financial webs - all of these will create
bumps in the surface of our every day lives.2? The way in which phones or data links
or mobile devices are tied together changes the way we act when we use them or
when we handle them to touch each other, even if the design of these systems is
insensible to us most of the time - the way a marble under a carpet might create a
surprising bump. Networks can organize themselves in many different ways. And in
the choice of layout, or the evolution of that layout in response to pressures of profit
or technology, a great deal can be decided. “When you decide what infrastructure to
use for a project, you're not just making a technical decision,” the programmer and
investor Paul Graham has written. “You're also making a social decision, and this
may be the more important of the two.”24

You might ask: What drew tens of millions of people to watch live as Steve Jobs
unveiled some new Apple device in the last years of his life? Of course, partly it was
the cool technology, the warmly charming charisma of the man. But something else
was at work, | think. What Jobs was unveiling atop those black-backed stages over

71 Engineers know this idea: Melvin E. Conway, “How Do Committees Invent?”
Datamation, April, 1968.

23 In our connected age: Barbara Schewick, Internet Architecture and Innovation,
(Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press, 2010) Chapter 1

24 “When you decide what infrastructure to use”: Paul Graham, “Great Hackers”,
on paulgraham.com July 2004

25

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018257
