Rotation trade — valuations have moved a long way

While technical metrics suggest a pause is due in the reflation rotation, we have also
seen a significant amount of ground covered from a valuation perspective in the market
moves to date.

The scatter chart below compares the PE relative change since 8th July (the post Brexit
valuation high / low for many sectors) against where PE relative ranks now compared to
history. Essentially sectors in the top right have enjoyed a relative multiple re-rating and
current relative PE levels are above the median since 1999. Those in the bottom left
have seen relative PE multiples de-rate while their current relative PE is below the
median since 1999. We make the following observations:

e Financials have had the biggest re-rating. Financials re-rated most since
Brexit and are now trading around median relative valuation levels. Given the
tight link between relative valuations and bond yields in recent years the PE-
relatives for Banks and Insurance have also recovered much more than would
seem justified by the move in the German 10-year yield. The sectors do screen
cheaper versus history on PBV reflecting relatively depressed ROEs especially
for Banks. Hence, we think PE multiple expansion from here would need to be
driven by improving EPS prospects in the sector — something our analysts are

sceptical about.

¢ Global Cyclicals trading near or below average relative PE’s. Many global
cyclicals have had fairly modest re-ratings since early July and trade on close to
median or below valuations. Sectors such as Industrials, Chemicals, Autos, Tech
have relative PE multiples 5-10% higher than post Brexit. Relative PE for
Chemicals and Industrials are close to post 1999 averages. Construction PE
relative does screen as elevated — at the 92? percentile. Autos, Tech and Travel
& Leisure all have PE relatives in the bottom quartile of their post 1999 range.
Relative PE valuations look very reasonable on this basis for Tech, Chemicals
and even industrials. In part this may reflect higher than historical average ROE
— relative PBV is less flattering for Industrials for example.

e Resources sectors — de-rating as EPS recovers. Oil and Basic Resources PE
relative has declined more than in any other sector. Although both sectors have
seen strong price performance this year, PE multiples are declining from very
elevated levels earlier this year as earnings bounce back from depressed levels.
Since the end of June Basics 12m forward EPS is up +65%, while the sector
index price has risen +33%. For Basics and Oil, performance from here is likely
to remain a function of EPS momentum rather than valuations.

e Defensives have all de-rated with Telecoms suffering least. Defensive
sectors have all seen relative valuations decline over the past four months.
Healthcare and Utilities are the two sectors with multiples at lower end of the
historical range — notably Healthcare at the 14 percentile. Utilities relative PE
is also close to the prior low hit in 2013. Telecoms screens as somewhat less
depressed form a valuation perspective — notwithstanding the poor sector
performance in 2016. PE relative remains well above the median levels since
1999.

e Staples approaching 2010/14 lows on PE-relative. Staples have also de-
rated severely — in fact Food & Beverage relative PE fell somewhat more than
the other Defensives. However, current levels are still somewhat higher versus
the historical range (since 1999) than for Healthcare or Utilities. That being
said, the PE-relative rose structurally through the 2000s. Over a shorter time
frame since 2010 Food & Beverage is also now trading near the bottom
quartile. PE-relative is 6-10% above the lows seen in 2010 and 2014 — but
those would still allow for healthy 25-30% valuation premiums to the market .

Bankof America

Merrill Lynch European Equity Strategy |O1 December 2016 23

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014482
