164 Teaching Minds

evaluated regularly and evaluation is taught explicitly in business
school. Political scientists evaluate politicians and political systems.
Historians evaluate what makes governments, battles, cities, and a
range of other things successful. Architects and urban planners and
engineers worry about evaluation of what they propose and produce.
All of these people could combine to teach students how to evaluate.
This is very important part of functioning in any society.

First College Year Summary

It would be my contention that a freshman year made up of these
four processes, taught in four simultaneous courses that were designed
to relate to one another in various ways and at specific times, would be
a wonderful thing for teaching people how to think. The best of our
faculty could teach what they thought about to students, who now
would be ready to start to think rigorously. By the end of this first year,
students could begin to specialize, not in academic subjects just yet,
but in other processes that build on the conceptual processes.

SECOND YEAR IN COLLEGE
Let’s look at the analytic processes.
Analytic Processes

Diagnosis. Who does diagnosis? Doctors certainly. Lawyers cer-
tainly. All the people I mentioned above who are building models
need to figure out why their models may have gone wrong. Anyone
who manages people or large operations needs to figure out all the
time what has gone wrong. In fact, diagnosis is a critical part of nearly
every area of thinking and every area of work. Diagnosis needs to be
studied for its own sake. How do we do diagnosis in principle, no mat-
ter what the situation?

Diagnosis also needs to be examined in the various contexts in
which it can be applied. A course in diagnosis, taught by the entire fac-
ulty who do diagnosis regularly, showing real work and real situations
that they have had to handle, and coming after the first year, would
have two advantages. One, it could build on the basic conceptual

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023910
