had run up her back. The passionate licking and sucking of her musky, moist, pink
labial lips brought what she said were explosions of pink and blue lights. She had
several ecstatic multicolored crises in a row, sometimes without pause. She begged
me to stop. | was as pleased as a sexually inexperienced young man in love could
have possibly been.

Bowled over by what seemed to be the uniquely sensual properties of her
brain, | began to wonder if her sensitivity was more general when she asked me to
keep the windows open or top down, even in the cool of a Florida January, because
the exhaust smell in my car was suffocating, though | couldn’t smell it. The car had
been checked and registered negative for abnormal fumes and leaks by Anderson
Ford. She asked me never to wear any kind of after-shave lotion because it choked
her. Jazz music on the car radio had to be played quietly. On-coming headlights
gave her headaches. Her mother, sometimes desperate, called me for help during
her daughters episodes of premenstrual emotionality and early menstrual
discomfort. During these times, we would drive together for hours as she explained
the many different colors of lower abdominal pain and how this particular kind
yawned darkly before it cramped. It was more purple then any of the others. | tried
to explain what | intuited but didn’t understand to her mother about the her gift of
unfiltered information coming through her nerve endings, her ever readiness for
surprise and her brain’s unwillingness or inability dampen or ignore what it didn’t
like. She saw things in art, heard things in music that | only saw, and heard after her
telling. She had tearful smiles listening to Debussy’s Afternoon of a Fawn. The
flatted fifths of Charley Parker and the laconic riffs of Miles Davis made her anxious.

Since then and for all these many years, the same sensually susceptible
brains showed up in my life carrying a variety of woman’s names and | never lost
my fascination for them. | learned that their heightened awareness extended to the
spiritual realm with unusually strong metaphysical inclinations and readiness for
transcendent experience. They seemed to live closer to the direct experience of
God. Attending Assembly of God and other Pentecostal midweek service, | found
that praying in tongues and dying in the Lord came as easily and dramatically to

them as their orgasmic experiences. At the same time, distant bad news could

65

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013565
