Subject: so there is no misunderstandin

To: Melanie Spinella a -
I have told the brads and barry,- Iam done. its not a negotiation , out !! - fyi given my carlyn joslin
castrucci, admonishments,- though my involvement in those - in one instance only gave a name - in
another only given an eileen dictated choice btween two 250k preparers. and for castrucci, I actually
sent emails that 1 take no responsiblity for his being hired. - however you felt strongly that I should be
saddled with their outcomes .even with brad wechsler , i again said two months in, Leon, he doesnt get
it. I tell you this so that you will understand that I will not interview, recommend or vet any new hire.

A story - In 1993 trump and I had a friend that kept telling his pilots how to fly , and when to fly , he
couldnt help himself from hiring morons as co pilots, and maintenance people based on cheapest rates.
Donald and I tried and tried to talk some sense into him, to no avail. Donald and I were in aspen, sitting
at little nells. when the friends plane crashed into the side of aspen mountain , klliing him and all on
board,- Trump looked at me and said without a blink , I guess NOW he wishes he would have listened to
us.- a metaphor for your office.. . had we not waited to the very last hour having had a six month
window and tens of unasnwered text and emails re decisions needed including the 1031. you would have
saved way more than you often feel obliged to argue about. . silly but 1 reallize you are stressed.

Barry will need to sit with brad for months, to absorb all the co's , structures. cash flow, financial
statments etc. I will present barry my thoughts on the overall redo , it will be the exact same email that i
presented to you and brad two years.ago . accurate numbers first. and foremost. . ( last week gaming
report stil funky). IT etc I pointed out some of the more glaring errors to barry to give him a flavor of
what is to come.

Tuesday if you like we should discuss Giacometti , and pesner ._ difficult to finesse him if they are
filing documents that you won't. these ridiculous conversations with tons of people on the phone ,
removes any claim you might have to not be considered a WILLFUL NON-FILER . ( after youve been
told by attnys and pwe that you should file in writing , you have NO choice ) ... worst possible result -
including serious penalties up the kazoo.

Date: Tue, Feb 24, 2015 at 8:20 AM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella (i iii i>
Leon,

Yesterday , again spent hours upon hours of my time with your office. ,( speak to brad to get
flavor) and you and 1 will discuss the results in gory gruesome detail on Friday. it mirrored many other
weeks spent doing the things that I don;t have the time to do.

In order to keep things in perspective, maybe reviewing an analogy I have used before with you,

might be helpful. You and your family are a 6 billion dollar corp. with an income between 250 -500
million dollars per year. It contains a few operating biz's , a large wide array of existing investments,
in various categories ,a desire to enter into others. A panoply of loans, notes. purchases, wide range
of all types of taxes. , planes. boats homes. . trusts ,grats. a crazy number of bank accts. ( with no
oversight ) . law firms, acct firms, 800 page tax returns, foreign firms. art consultants.
construction consultants bill payers, home mgmt.,vast multitude of Ilc's , including foreign, and with
all that you only have a combined overhead of less that 3 million dollars.

I have previously sent you the very same note that 1 have enclosed again below ,this time with
highlights . I wrote it to you over a year ago. As my acute disability ( selective memory) seems to
have been raised as one of your concerns , as arule I try to memorialize things in writing in an
attempt to lay out issues that I fear may later turn out to be a problem. ie what 1 would and wouldn't
do , - my responsibilities. ete and those things that are not. below you will find details of things that I

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023253
