KLC Management

KLC
Key Management
Years with Industry

Name Position Company Exp.
Elanna Yalow President and COO 16 19
Dan Jackson CFO 9 9
Toni Jaffe SVP of Human Resources 1 1
Eva Kripalani SVP & General Counsel 9 9
Marcy Suntken SVP of School Partnerships 14 20
Dan Frechiling SVP of Business Development 1 1
Sharon Bergen SVP of Education and Training 18 18
Steve Brown President, KCDL 1 1
Total 69 78
Average 8.6 9.7

Elanna Yalow, Ph.D., President and Chief Operating Officer

Dr. Yalow has been President and Chief Operating Officer of KLC since January 1996, having joined the
company in 1989 to initiate development of the employer-sponsored services division. Currently, Dr.
Yalow is responsible for supervising all center operations and support functions. Her educational degrees
include a Ph.D. in educational psychology from Stanford University School of Education in 1980 with an
emphasis on the design and evaluation of educational programs for children as well as an M.B.A. from
Stanford University’s Graduate School of Business in 1989. With a background in educational research
and development, Dr. Yalow contributed to numerous statewide and national curriculum development and
assessment projects. Dr. Yalow has written extensively on matters related to the education of young
children.

Mark Moreland, Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer

Mr. Moreland is Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Knowledge Learning Corporation
(KLC). Mr. Moreland joined KLC during 2006. Prior to joining KLC, Mr. Moreland was Interim CFO with
Movie Gallery, Inc.; the $2.6 billion holding company of the Movie Gallery and Hollywood Video movie
rental stores with 4,700 stores nationwide. Before being appointed interim CFO, Mr. Moreland served as
Senior Vice President, Finance and Treasurer. Before joining Movie Gallery, he was with Kmart
Corporation in both merchandising finance and treasury capacities, last holding the role of Divisional Vice
President, Assistant Treasurer. Mr. Moreland has also worked with Deloitte Consulting, Blue Shield of
California and the U.S. General Accounting Office. Mr. Moreland earned an MBA from the University of
Michigan and a B.S. in Economics from the University of Texas at Arlington.

Eva Kripalani, Senior Vice President and General Counsel

Ms. Kripalani became KLC’s Senior Vice President and General Counsel in January 2005. Prior to that,
Ms. Kripalani served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of KinderCare since July
2001. She joined KinderCare in July 1997 as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. Prior to
joining KinderCare, Ms. Kripalani was a partner in the law firm of Stoel Rives LLP in Portland, Oregon,
where she had worked since 1987. Ms. Kripalani received her J.D., magna cum laude, from the

153

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024586
