5.3 An Architecture Diagram for Human-Like General Intelligence 99

PERCEPTION/ ACTION
SUBSYSTEMS

Fig. 5.2: Architecture of Working Memory and Reactive Processing, closely modeled on the
LIDA architecture

Figure 5.3, modeling motivation and action selection, is a lightly modified version of the
Psi diagram from Joscha Bach’s book Principles of Synthetic Intelligence [Bac09|. The main
difference from Psi is that in the integrative diagram the Psi motivated action framework is
embedded in a larger, more complex cognitive model. Psi comes with its own theory of working
and long-term memory, which is related to but different from the one given in the integrative
diagram — it views the multiple memory types distinguished in the integrative diagram as
emergent from a common memory substrate. Psi comes with its own theory of perception and
action, which seems broadly consistent with the deep learning approach incorporated in the
integrative diagram. Psi’s handling of working memory lacks the detailed, explicit workflow of
LIDA, though it seems broadly conceptually consistent with LIDA.

In Figure 5.3, the box labeled Other portions of working memory is labeled Protocol and
situation memory in the original Psi diagram. The Perception, Action Execution and Action
Selection boxes have fairly similar semantics to the similarly labeled boxes in the LIDA-like
Figure 5.2, so that these diagrams may be viewed as overlapping. The LIDA model doesn’t
explain action selection and planning in as much detail as Psi, so the Psi-like Figure 5.3 could
be viewed as an elaboration of the action-selection portion of the LIDA-like Figure 5.2. In
Psi, reinforcement is considered as part of the learning process involved in action selection and
planning; in Figure 5.3 an explicit reinforcement box has been added to the original Psi
diagram, to emphasize this.

Figure 5.4, modeling long-term memory and deliberative processing, is derived from our own
prior work studying the cognitive synergy between different cognitive processes associated
with different types of memory. The division into types of memory is fairly standard. Declarative,
procedural, episodic and sensorimotor memory are routinely distinguished; we like to distinguish
attentional memory and intentional (goal) memory as well, and view these as the interface
between long-term memory and the mind’s global control systems. One focus of our AGI design
work has been on designing learning algorithms, corresponding to these various types of memory,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013015
