“He's the chief watchdog, who watches over all the other
watchdogs—but this must be his night off-”

no magic bullets for most of the problems
that ail us today,” Jonas said. “Diabetes,
immune-system disorders, chronic pain,
cancer. Our illnesses are complex, and we
need to approach them in more compre-
hensive ways. We try to identify drugs
that will eliminate disease. Yet the way
we go about delivering those agents—the
interaction between doctor and patient,
for example—often has a bigger impact
than the agent we focus on. More than
the drug and more than the surgery. And
that has been collectively called the pla-
cebo effect.”

he headquarters of the Food and
Drug Administration, situated on
a campus called White Oak, on the far
edge of Silver Spring, Maryland, seems
as close to the rest of the federal medi-
cal establishment as it is to Pluto. There
is no Metro to White Oak, and it takes
half an hour to drive from the sprawling
campus to the National Institutes of
Health, in Bethesda. The F.D.A.’s
physical isolation belies its position as
the nation’s principal regulator of con-
sumer products. No drug is sold with-
out the agency’s approval. There will be
no prescriptions for any placebo, either,
unless clinical trials have demonstrated
its effectiveness to the satisfaction of
the F.D.A.
“One of the absolutely fundamental
problems that we have is the use of the

34 THE NEW YORKER, DECEMBER 12, 2011

term ‘placebo, which does nobody any
good,” Robert Temple told me, echoing
a complaint made by virtually every-
one who deals with the subject. Temple,
who has for many years run the F.D.A’s
drug-evaluation department, is an owlish
man with a short, thick mustache and cir-
cular glasses. His office is so filled with
towering stacks of files that, after you
enter, it takes a moment to find him. “Just
because something is called a ‘placebo
eroup, ” he said, “everyone assumes that
what happens in that group is a result of
the placebo effect. And that is absolutely
not true.”

Temple, who has worked at the
F.D.A. for four decades, rarely makes a
decision without angering somebody. He
has been regarded as a meddlesome reac-
tionary by H.1.V. activists and others
who insist that drugs be released more
rapidly. The more conservative medical
establishment frequently accuses the
agency of endorsing the wishful thinking
of drug manufacturers. And to the large
and growing community that supports
alternative approaches to medicine Tem-
ple is Dr. No.

Temple said that he understands why
placebos attract people who become frus-
trated when science fails to provide
definitive answers. “The persistence of
what people believe will save their lives as
opposed to the evidence is staggering,” he
said. “So people are talking about using

placebos as drugs. But I have no idea what
that means in practical terms. How would
it work?” Tantalizing hints and possible
effects are not data, and Temple says there
are no data that would suggest that place-
bos are drugs. There are several studies,
though, that illustrate the basis for his
skepticism.

A placebo effect is commonly ob-
served during trials of blood-pressure
medications. To qualify for such studies,
subjects are supposed to have blood pres-
sure that exceeds a hundred and forty
over ninety in at least one of the two
measurements. “As soon as somebody
enters those studies, his or her blood
pressure falls an average of five or six mil-
limetres of mercury,” Temple said. “That
is significant, but it is not a placebo re-
sponse, and it is not a response to being
in the study. It is often the result of doc-
tors’ inflating readings—of rounding up.”
Ifa person's blood pressure is a hundred
and thirty-eight over eighty-eight, for ex-
ample, investigators will often include
him. “When you use an automatic blood-
pressure cuff to establish a baseline for
these kinds of studies, the entire placebo
effect vanishes,” Temple said.

When a drug (or a placebo) is under
study, subjects are usually divided into two
groups. Neither group knows exactly what
it is getting (nor do the doctors), but one
group generally receives the drug and the
other a placebo. “There is a better way,”
Temple said. “If you want to see if there is
a placebo effect, use three arms in a drug
trial, not two. Tell them, ‘Some of you will
be getting a drug, some will get a tablet
that looks like a drug but is nothing but a
sugar pill, and some of you will get noth-
ing at all’

“It seems to me,” he went on, “that if
there is any substantial placebo effect,
there ought to be a difference between the
group that knows it’s getting nothing and
the group that doesn’t know it’s getting
nothing. If there is no difference, then
what are we talking about? Because it’s
not a placebo effect.”

It turns out that there have been many
trials of the type Temple mentioned. In
2001, the Danish epidemiologist As-
bjorn Hrébjartsson, of Copenhagen’s
Nordic Cochrane Center, along with his
colleague Peter Getzsche, published a
systematic review of a hundred and four-
teen clinical trials that compared patients
who received a placebo with subjects who

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029929
