Subject:
To: Melanie Spinella (i
Radical but my preferred idea. . START from total scratch. there is absolutely nothing worth
keeping in your family office except for heather , nothing at all . I remember when 1 bought my first
house in order to renovate and jack robertson said forget it. knock it down start again, I could n't
believe it. but he was right. Like your tax returns that were done in triplicate. TOM RICH ALAN. .
tom and rich were not really useful in the end. Alan was the only smart one. you should in my
opinion Start a brand new office. hire cfo. bring joe over. heather and samantha, — run parallel
for 6 months and close down the mess of elysium forever. leave your kids a functioning operation
professionally constructed and managed. NOT BY ME!!!
LAst nov 1 laid out priorities IT , being the first nothing as of today. _in July I said focus on airplane
as atest. to examine procedure and proficiency, so far mostly a waste of resources time people
etc. Only last week told debra owns 49 percent of plane. no IT to speak of. bens house
unaccounted for. tax returns very very sloppy, . boat still argued as third home. . pilots bonuses? ,
structure unkown by all. cash sitlling at the same time loans outstanding.
Phaidon , looks like close to breakeven in a few years. others totally unknown. Query , do you
really want this ? : Im not sure how you both want to have an investment office and have cash flow
being eaten by publishing and loans amounts outstanding increased by art. --interest rates will be
going up.-. your plane will cost 10 million to refinance - so will boat if sold next year-. art space and
regan , both needs more cash. with little return, taxes , art purchases. Part of radical solutition is to
sell publishing.altogether. (are the children really interested.) restrucuture plane from scratch.
layers unncessary. simplify crazy structure s bank accounts trading accounts accounts payble. credit
cards. etc. The best way to wean yourself away from me is to have someone else do the whole thing
from scratch. . move brad to be the replacement for Richard. . he is nice but this 1s not what he does.
Him saying it is soooo fucked up to me , was only an echo of me sayint it to you.

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella [as

as brad can attest , I spent time today with joslin, joe. etc. no question at all, a failed experiment. In
the words of a banker that made a call on your office. what happened? leon seems to have replaced
Eillenn with a team of Shleppers. ? I know you care little for what they may think , but the legacy you
leave your kids is just that. you only have 60 days of planning left for this year. numbers are all over the
place.

I recieved a nice call from Karp today, . He touted me as a great friend to you. I am happy to be just
that.. He said it was important for me to tell you what others won't. Keep heather, fire EVERYONE
else.

Date: Mon, Oct 26, 2015 at 1:10 PM

Subject: CONSTRUCTIVE?

To: Brad Wechsler i, Melanie Spincla is

1 cash flow projections for 16. . draft ok. i will be easy. ineed reught projection. 2. phaidon chart
laid out now with who signs in sale of shares vs enitities. ? ie managing memebrs. . 2. 3 new
trusts. Apo-o , dynasty, ( does leon want to put in new restrictions per child ). - publishing interests. .
3 Ilc, for investments 4 names insured? guarnatees? art loans. outstanding. sales or use tax owed? 4
comparison of execu jet vs jet aviation. .5. the bank loan on the jet is going to come due. does leon
prefer to extend f they would (he is a guarantor. ? ) or will he need to pay 10 million cash to renew,
that wiill determine new structure of plane. getting rid of rance, wells fargo, john hannon, lisa gratizaino
etc.. 5. boat restructure . 6 grats - if leon decie to have another. 7 accountning for children, .

2

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023284
