BREAKING DOWN DEMOCRACY: Goals, Strategies, and Methods of Modern Authoritarians

len the democratic revolution from the Polish people
by failing to carry out a proper purge of communists
and their collaborators. PiS even initiated a cam-
paign to sully the reputation of Lech Walesa, leader of
the anticommunist Solidarity movement in the 1980s,
by accusing him of working as a communist agent.’

Since coming to power with a parliamentary majority
in October 2015, PiS has embarked on a course of
change that places it solidly in the illiberal camp, with
many of the initiatives mirroring those enacted by
Fidesz in Hungary.

As in Hungary, an initial focus for the new government
was securing control of the Constitutional Tribunal.
PiS has moved to pack the court with its own appoin-
tees, using tactics that are blatantly illegal according
to Polish law and which have drawn criticism both
from the EU and the United States.'* However, party
leader Jarostaw Kaczynski, who holds a seat in the
parliament but no formal government position, has
much greater ambitions to refashion Poland along
culturally conservative and politically illiberal lines.

The media are a major target. The government quickly
asserted control over public broadcasters and purged
them of journalists whom it regarded as loyal to the op-
position.’” PiS officials have also spoken of the need to
“restore balance” to the private media by, among other
things, taking measures to reduce foreign ownership of
key outlets. Already, the new government has used its
power over the allocation of state advertising to reward
friendly media and punish its critics.'®

The new government has involved itself in a debate
over history. It proposed a law that would punish those
who use the phrase “Polish death camps’ to refer to
sites established by Nazi Germany in Poland during
World War II.!9 PiS leaders have demonized scholars,
such as the eminent historian Jan Gross, who have
published research on the participation of Poles in

the persecution of Jews during the war. Gross was
questioned by a prosecutor on his research, and there
was talk of rescinding an award he had received.”° The
government threatened to withdraw support from the
useum of the Second World War, a project that was
near completion in Gdansk and enjoyed strong support
from such highly regarded scholars as Timothy Snyder
and Norman Davies. PiS complained that the museum
focused on all victims of the conflict rather than on
specifically Polish suffering.”?

Perhaps the most unsettling measure enacted under

the PiS government is an ambitious law that, in the
name of counterterrorism, gives the security services
sweeping powers over telecommunications and
personal information. With this legislation, Poland
became one of the first countries in the democratic
world to embrace the use of telecommunications
shutdowns in a particular area, a measure that
smacks of digital repression.??

The law gives Poland's domestic intelligence agency
unrestricted access to personal data without ap-
proval from a court or any other body. Tax reports,
vehicle information, insurance information, financial
statements, and other records are all now available

to the intelligence service of a government that has
made a point of naming party loyalists to key security
positions. The legislation also grants the domestic
security agency the ability to shut down websites. The
action can be reviewed by a court within five days, but
this is far from reassuring in light of the government's
efforts to exert political control over the judiciary.

The legislation is ostensibly needed to counter acts of
terrorism. But Poland has not experienced a terrorist
act since 1939, and has one of the smallest popula-
tions of Muslim immigrants—often perceived as a risk
factor for terrorism—in Europe. Furthermore, the law
is written in vague terms that give the government
great latitude to decide what is and is not an act of
terrorism.23 Given the PiS leadership's penchant for
smearing its political adversaries as traitors to the
Polish nation,”* it is not inconceivable that such a law

could one day be used against the opposition.

llliberalism’s preconditions

The triumph of illiberal governments in countries like
Hungary and Poland raises the question of whether
the phenomenon will spread further. Might illiberal-
ism come to dominate a society with much deeper
democratic roots—Austria, France, or even the United
States?

From a practical standpoint, illiberal forces are unlikely
to transform countries where the political divide is rel-
atively equal and the established parties have strong,
loyal followings.

It is only when the mainstream parties suffer cata-
strophic electoral setbacks that illiberal challengers
can rush into the breach.

The Socialist Party had governed Hungary for much of
the period since 1989, but it rapidly lost credibility due

38

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019272
