158 Teaching Minds

department affairs, never about computer science. We had nothing to
say to one another about that. The same is true in every department.
Academic departments are made up of faculty who have been thrown
together for historical reasons but really have no business being in the
same department.

What does a clinical psychologist have in common with someone
who studies animal behavior? Do they talk about crazy chimps? What
does an historical linguist have to say to a Chomskian linguist? What
does someone who works on the philosophy of mind have to say to
someone who studies religious philosophy?

Departments probably should have been organized around ideas
instead of around words. I tried to facilitate that when I helped create
cognitive science as a discipline by founding the Journal of Cognitive
Science and the Cognitive Science Society. That was over 30 years ago
and while some cognitive science departments have been created, in
the end the disciplines that study the mind continue to do so in their
own ways. Computer scientists who study the mind build comput-
er models, and psychologists who study the mind run experiments.
Anthropologists who study the mind do descriptions. That these are
three of the twelve cognitive processes is no accident. Departments are
organized to some extent around the processes that they use, but that
is by no means the central organizing principle. As that old adversary
to the creation of the Yale Computer Science Department said, the
central organizing principle was a machine and that is kind of silly.

Who suffers from this state of affairs? The students, of course.
When a department’s faculty meets to decide what courses students
must take in order to major in their field, it is not a sage conversation
among scholars about what it means to be a computer scientist or psy-
chologist. It is a political tug fest, where people from very diverse fields
within these departments push and shove for turf.

Why do they care? There are two big reasons. First, if no one signs
up for the courses you teach, you won't be teaching them for long.
Second, if many students sign up for the courses you teach, you can
justify hiring more faculty in your subdiscipline, which means more
friends to hang out with and more power in department meetings
where the votes can now go your way. You think this stuff doesn’t
matter? These issues are the lifeblood of every university department.

Let’s look at both of these and see why they might matter.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023904
