21

prominent neuroscientist Elizabeth Phelps suggest that directing our
thoughts of the future toward the positive is a result of our frontal
cortex's communicating with subcortical regions deep in our brain.
The frontal cortex, a large area behind the forehead, is the most
recently evolved part of the brain. It is larger in humans than in other
primates and is critical for many complex human functions such as
language and goal setting.

Using a functional magnetic resonance imaging ({MRI) scanner, we
recorded brain activity in volunteers as they imagined specific events
that might occur to them in the future. Some of the events that I asked
them to imagine were desirable (a great date or winning a large sum
of money), and some were undesirable (losing a wallet, ending a
romantic relationship). The volunteers reported that their images of
sought-after events were richer and more vivid than those of
unwanted events.

This matched the enhanced activity we observed in two critical
regions of the brain: the amygdala, a small structure deep in the brain
that is central to the processing of emotion, and the rostral anterior
cingulate cortex (rACC), an area of the frontal cortex that modulates
emotion and motivation. The rACC acts like a traffic conductor,
enhancing the flow of positive emotions and associations. The more
optimistic a person was, the higher the activity in these regions was
while imagining positive future events (relative to negative ones) and
the stronger the connectivity between the two structures. The findings
were particularly fascinating because these precise regions — the
amygdala and the rACC — show abnormal activity in depressed
individuals. While healthy people expect the future to be slightly
better than it ends up being, people with severe depression tend to be
pessimistically biased: they expect things to be worse than they end
up being. People with mild depression are relatively accurate when
predicting future events. They see the world as it is. In other words,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030288
