10

the Tagammu, as well as by a large collection of NGOs and other
representatives of civil society.

To some extent, these general orientations shaped the stances,
whether for or against, in the referendum on the constitutional
amendments, which drew the first clear lines in the post-25 January
political map. In that referendum, the first camp obtained 77.2 per
cent of the vote versus 22.8 per cent for the second. However, it is
important to bear in mind that, in this referendum, a critical mass of
voters sided with the first camp because they felt that the amendments
bill offered the clearest path to the transition from revolutionary
legitimacy to the legitimacy of the established state, which is to say to
the return to normalcy that Egyptians desperately yearned for at the
time. But this sentiment will no longer be a major factor now that this
wish has come true and elections are at hand in September.
Therefore, it remains open which way this key group of voters will
swing in those elections, the results of which will be crucial to the
subsequent selection of the constitutional committee and then to the
choice of president.

Several factors will be instrumental in determining the impact of the
critical mass of Egyptian voters. Foremost among them will be their
turnout at the polls. Only 41 per cent of the 45 million eligible voters
took part in the referendum. This relatively low figure could be
increased by increasing the number of polling stations, of which there
are only 44,000 at present, a factor that has long deterred all but the
most committed from braving long voting queues. Secondly,
although judicial supervision will now guarantee the integrity of the
polls and ensure that people's votes really do count, the proportional
electoral list system will yield very different kinds of results than
those produced by the individual candidate system. A third critical
factor will be campaign financing. Election campaigns and buying
television air-time in particular have become extraordinarily

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030277
