experiments were related in one way or another to Hannah Arendt’s thoughts about Adolf Eichmann and
the fact that good people are capable of horrific things: the banality of evil. Hiding behind every average
Joe is a person equipped with an engine of malice. Banality is the veil of evil. Thus, the American
psychologist Stanley Milgram showed that normal people were capable of shocking innocent others when
an authority figure told them to do so; of course, there were no shocks, but the subjects believed they
were real. Similarly, the American psychologists Solomon Asch and Philip Zimbardo showed that
normal people followed group attitudes and instructions, bleating like mindless sheep, no reflection, no
critical thinking, no concern about the consequences of their actions. In Zimbardo’s study — the famous
Stanford prison experiments — run of the mill undergraduates playing the role of prison guards turned
into little dictators, mentally and physically abusing their run of the mill undergraduates playing the role
of prisoners. Together, these studies seemed to support a blank slate view of the mind, a tablet waiting for
inscription by the local culture, with no constraints on the written matter.

A closer look at many of these studies reveals far more variation in how individuals responded,
suggesting that differences in their genetic make-up and personal experience either facilitated their
willingness to follow authority and ideology or prevented it. Many subjects in both the Milgram and
Zimbardo studies refused to follow the orders or rules of the game. Those who refused tended to identify
more with the victim and less with the authority figure or ideology. This suggests important differences in
the capacity to experience empathy and compassion for another. Studies by the cognitive neuroscientist
Esse Viding show that by the pre-school years, some children have a diminished capacity for empathy,
expressing a deeply callous and unemotional character. These children exhibit severe conduct problems,
especially violence. These children lack remorse and an awareness of others’ distress. They are cold,
heartless kids. If they have a twin, they are more likely to share this callous-unemotional personality than
two unrelated children, revealing the trademark of a powerful genetic engine. More boys than girls fall on
the high end of this callous-unemotional scale — where high translates to colder and more callous. Those
who score highest on the scale engage in more direct physical bullying than those who score lower. High
scorers lack the skills to modulate their behavior following direct or anticipated punishment. These
individuals also show reduced activity in the amygdala, a part of the brain that is critically involved in
regulating emotion, especially the assignment of a positive or negative value on our actions and
experiences. These individual differences persist into adulthood. These are the kind of individual
differences that can explain why some followed Milgram and Zimbardo’s instructions to perfection, while

others resisted, exerting self-control.

Hauser Chapter 4. Wicked in waiting 128

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012874
