up foreign fun faster than having to sign original documents when faxes are unacceptable.

> One month out—
Speak to the manager of your local post office and have all mail forwarded to a friend, family member,

or personal assistant,2who will be paid $100-200 per month to e-mail you brief descriptions of all
nonjunk mail each Monday.

Get all required and recommended immunizations and vaccinations for your target region. Check the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (www.cdc.gov/travel/). Note that proof of immunizations is
sometimes required to pass through foreign customs.

Set up a trial account with GoToMyPC or similar remote-access software and take a dry run to ensure
that there are no technological glitches. 2

If resellers (or distributors) still send you checks—the fulfillment house should handle customer
checks at this point—do one of three things: give the resellers direct bank deposit information (ideal),
have the fulfillment house handle these checks (second choice), or have the resellers pay via PayPal or
mail checks to one of the people you are trusting with power of attorney (far third). In the last case, give
the person with power of attorney deposit slips so he or she can sign or stamp and mail in the checks. It
is convenient to become a member of a large bank (Bank of America, Wells Fargo, Washington Mutual,
Citibank, etc.) with branches near the person assisting you so that they can drop off the deposits while
running other errands. No need to move all accounts to this bank if you don’t want to; just open a single
new account that is used solely for these deposits.

= Two weeks out—

Scan all identification, health insurance, and credit/debit cards into a computer from which you can print
multiple copies, several to be left with family members and several to be taken with you in separate
bags. E-mail the scanned file to yourself so that you can access it while abroad if you lose the paper
copies.

If you are an entrepreneur, downgrade your cell phone to the cheapest plan and set up a voicemail
greeting that states, “I am currently overseas on business. Please do not leave a voicemail, as I will not
be checking it while gone. Please send me an e-mail at__ @__.com if the matter is important. Thank you
for your understanding.” Then set up e-mail autoresponders that indicate responses could take up to
seven days (or whatever you decide for frequency) due to international business travel.

If you are an employee, consider getting a quad-band or GSM-compatible cell phone so that the boss
can contact you. Get a BlackBerry only if your boss will be checking to see if you are working via e-
mail. Be sure to disable the dead giveaway “Sent from a BlackBerry” signature on outgoing e-mail!
Other options include using a Skypeln account that forwards to your foreign cell phone (my preference)
or a Vonage IP box that allows you to receive landline calls anywhere in the world via a phone number
that begins with your home area code.

Find an apartment for your ultimate mini-retirement destination or reserve a hostel or hotel at your
starting point for three to four days. Reserving an apartment before you arrive is riskier and will be much
more expensive than using the latter three to four days to find an apartment. I recommend hostels for the
starting point if possible—not for cost considerations but because the staff and fellow travelers are more
knowledgeable and helpful with relocations.

Get foreign medical evacuation insurance if needed for peace of mind. This tends to be redundant if

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013968
