54018

Federal Register/Vol. 76, No. 168/Tuesday, August 30, 2011/Rules and Regulations

Some comments argue that the
Board’s notice posting rule does not go
far enough to effectuate the NLRA. One
labor attorney argues that the Board
should require annual trainings for
supervisors and captive audience
meetings where employees are read
their rights by supervisors and Board
agents and the employees would have to
acknowledge receiving those notices.
The same comment suggests banning
captive audience meetings by
employers. The comment concludes that
the NPRM “‘doesn’t go anywhere near
far enough. It is, however, an important
and worthwhile advancement.” %
Another comment also suggests that
annual, mandatory training classes for
employees would be desirable.9° The
Board believes that this Rule strikes the
proper balance in communicating
necessary information about the NLRA
to employees.

For all the foregoing reasons, the
Board is persuaded that many private
sector employees are unaware of their
NLRA rights.96

III. Summary of Final Rule and
Discussion of Related Comments

The Board’s rule, which requires
employers subject to the NLRA to post
notices of employee rights under the
NLRA, will be set forth in Chapter 1,
Part 104 of Volume 29 of the Code of
Federal Regulations (CFR). Subpart A of
the rule sets out definitions; prescribes
the size, form, and content of the
employee notice; and lists the categories
of employers that are not covered by the
rule. Subpart B sets out standards and

a few months, especially since the number of
contractors covered by the Labor Department’s rule
is only a small fraction of the number of employers
subject to the NLRA. In any event, the Board does
not believe that that is the proper criterion by
which to measure the rule’s effectiveness. The
purpose of requiring the posting of such notices is
to inform employees of their rights so that they may
exercise them more effectively, not to obtain any
particular result such as the filing of more election
petitions.

The same comment also cites a couple of
textbooks which it asserts are popularly used in
high schools today to argue that labor history is
being taught to today’s students. The Board is
unable to assess the truth of that assertion, but
regardless, it is unclear whether students
necessarily connect this history to their future
rights as employees.

°3Comment of Weinberg, Roger & Rosenfeld.

947d.

°5Comment of Staff Representative, Steelworkers.

°6 Accordingly, the Board finds it unnecessary to
conduct a study to determine the extent of
employees’ knowledge of NLRA rights. The Board
further observes that even if only 10 percent of
workers were unaware of those rights, that would
still mean that more than 10 million workers lacked
knowledge of one of their most basic workplace
rights. The Board believes that there is no question
that at least a similar percentage of employees are
unaware of the rights explained in the notice. In the
Board’s view, that justifies issuing the rule.

procedures related to allegations of
noncompliance and enforcement of the
tule. The discussion below is organized
in the same manner and explains the
Board’s reasoning in adopting the
standards and procedures contained in
the regulatory text, including the
Board’s responses to the comments
received.

Subpart A—Definitions, Requirements
for Employee Notice, and Exceptions
From Coverage Definitions

A. The Definitions

For the most part, the definitions
proposed in the rule are taken from
those appearing in Section 2 of the
NLRA, 29 U.S.C. 152. No comments
were received concerning those
definitions, and they are unchanged in
the final rule. A number of comments
were received concerning the definition
of other terms appearing in the rule.
Those comments are addressed below.

B. Requirements for Employee Notice

1. Content Requirements

The notice contains a summary of
employee rights established under the
NLRA. As explained above, the Board
believes that requiring notice of
employee rights is necessary to carry out
the provisions of the NLRA.
Accordingly, § 104.202 of the proposed
rule requires employers subject to the
NLRA to post and maintain the notice
in conspicuous places, including all
places where notices to employees are
customarily posted, and to take
reasonable steps to ensure that the
notices are not altered, defaced, or
covered by any other material, or
otherwise rendered unreadable.

As stated in the NPRM, the Board
considered the substantive content and
level of detail the notice should contain
regarding NLRA rights. In arriving at the
content of the notice of employee rights,
the Board proposed to adopt the
language of the Department of Labor’s
final rule requiring Federal contractors
to post notices of employees’ NLRA
rights. 29 CFR part 471. In the NPRM,
the Board explained that it tentatively
agreed with the Department of Labor
that neither quoting the statement of
employee rights contained in Section 7
of the NLRA nor briefly summarizing
those rights in the notice would be
likely to effectively inform employees of
their rights. Rather, the language of the
notice should include a more detailed
description of employee rights derived
from Board and court decisions
implementing those rights. The Board
also stated that it saw merit in the
Department of Labor’s judgment that
including in the notice examples, again

derived from Board and court decisions,
of conduct that violates the NLRA will
assist employees in understanding their
rights. 75 FR 80412.

Prior to issuing the NPRM, the Board
carefully reviewed the content of the
notice required under the Department of
Labor’s final rule, which was modified
in response to comments from
numerous sources, and tentatively
concluded that that notice explains
employee rights accurately and
effectively without going into excessive
or confusing detail. The Board therefore
found it unnecessary, for purposes of
the proposed rulemaking, to modify the
language of the notice in the Department
of Labor’s final rule. Moreover, the
Board reasoned that because the notice
of employee rights would be the same
under the Board’s proposed rule as
under the Department of Labor’s rule,
Federal contractors that have posted the
Department of Labor’s required notice
would have complied with the Board’s
rule and, so long as that notice is
posted, would not have to post a second
notice. Id.

The proposed notice contained
examples of general circumstances that
constitute violations of employee rights
under the NLRA. Thus, the Board
proposed a notice that provided
employees with more than a
rudimentary overview of their rights
under the NLRA, in a user-friendly
format, while simultaneously not
overwhelming employees with
information that is unnecessary and
distracting in the limited format of a
notice. As explained below, the Board
also tentatively agreed with the
Department of Labor that it is
unnecessary for the notice to include
specifically the right of employees who
are not union members and who are
covered by a contractual union-security
clause to refuse to pay union dues and
fees for any purpose other than
collective bargaining, contract
administration, or grievance adjustment.
See Communications Workers v. Beck,
487 U.S. 735 (1988). Id. at 80412-80413.

The Board specifically invited
comment on the statement of employee
rights proposed for inclusion in the
required notice to employees. In
particular, the Board requested
comment on whether the notice
contains sufficient information of
employee rights under the NLRA;
whether it effectively conveys that
information to employees; and whether
it achieves the desired balance between
providing an overview of employee
rights under the Act and limiting
unnecessary and distracting
information. Id. at 80413.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022289
