and appreciated. He was the anti-wonk. He was the counterexpert. His was the gut call. He
was the everyman. He was jazz (some, in the telling, made it rap), everybody else an
earnest folk music. In the other reality, in which resided most of his antagonists, his
virtues were grievous if not mental and criminal flaws. In this reality lived the media,
which, with its conclusion of a misbegotten and bastard presidency, believed it could
diminish him and wound him (and wind him up) and rob him of all credibility by
relentlessly pointing out how literally wrong he was.

The media, adopting a “shocked, shocked” morality, could not fathom how being
factually wrong was not an absolute ending in itself. How could this not utterly shame
him? How could his staff defend him? The facts were the facts! Defying them, or ignoring
them, or subverting them, made you a liar—intending to deceive, bearing false witness. (A
minor journalism controversy broke out about whether these untruths should be called
inaccuracies or lies.)

In Bannon’s view: (1) Trump was never going to change; (2) trying to get him to
change would surely cramp his style; (3) it didn’t matter to Trump supporters; (4) the
media wasn’t going to like him anyway; (5) it was better to play against the media than to
the media; (6) the media’s claim to be the protector of factual probity and accuracy was
itself a sham; (7) the Trump revolution was an attack on conventional assumptions and
expertise, so better to embrace Trump’s behavior than try to curb it or cure it.

The problem was that, for all he was never going to stick to a script (“his mind just
doesn’t work that way” was one of the internal rationalizations), Trump craved media
approval. But, as Bannon emphasized, he was never going to get the facts right, nor was
he ever going to acknowledge that he got them wrong, so therefore he was not going to get
that approval. This meant, next best thing, that he had to be aggressively defended against
the media’s disapproval.

The problem here was that the more vociferous the defense—mostly of assertions that
could easily be proved wrong—the more the media redoubled its attacks and censure.
What’s more, Trump was receiving the censure of his friends, too. And it was not only
calls from friends worried about him, but staffers calling people to call him and say
Simmer down. “Who do you have in there?” said Joe Scarborough in a frantic call. “Who’s
the person you trust? Jared? Who can talk you through this stuff before you decided to act
on it?”

“Well,” said the president, “you won’t like the answer, but the answer is me. Me. I talk

to myself.”

Hence, within twenty-four hours of the inauguration, the president had invented a
million or so people who did not exist. He sent his new press secretary, Sean Spicer—
whose personal mantra would shortly become “You can’t make this shit up’—to argue his
case in a media moment that turned Spicer, quite a buttoned-down political professional,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019919
