was a consequence of the high cost of my artwork. . the unfortunate result was easily predictable. -
now

If you want my and my atelier to continue, I will oversee the audits. take charge of the TRA BRH
assignments and review 2012 amendment options!!( note :your redo of the estate fire drill has not
progressed very far ). Lots of paper needs to be collected and reviewed, At MY direction. the outside
team will be brought in at my expense working for me and you. coming in for interviews and reviews, .
sucession, technology, tax and compliance. investment reporting , , computerized timelines for filings etc.
. household classifcations and reporting with a system of best practices.

My goal is clear - to end, not extend , our financial interactions. you will have a machine that works , it
will not be complexto oversee , to create it, is some thing else . Unfortunatley for us both, the price for
my works has not changed since day one. 40m per year, I m willing to discount it to 35 as I did give
you a bad number when asked and should pay an embarassment fine. Im also aware, as you made
perfectly clear . that you have already paid what you consider a great deal of money, for my work , but
again its value exceeds anything else by far in your collection at a cost less than agreed upon. . please
also remember that you and i agreed no more demands on my time after the last payment for the big
transaction.

OR, you can decide that brad , tom , and whomever else you choose can screw with my work and they
can oversee your audits . they are both aware and sensitive to the issue at hand. alan could be brought
in but i would be extra careful having paul weiss given access to entire story.

_-On an unrelated note- you recently seemed shy to discuss certain things. , please be assured I make
no judgement on any of your activities , whether or not i agree with them . not my role I am always on
your side on the table. I hope your personal life quiets. you 've had a rough 15 months.

3. Remind me to talk to you about MR
Date: Mon, Sep 19, 2016 at 8:56 PM
Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella hii,

dec 2015
IT, still desperately needed- reporting flawed cumbersome and inaccurate . all done by hand as one -off
exercises , - airplane: re structure, (my only suggested priority in june ) is really ,no further ahead,
,consultants up the kazoo but nothing at all done.( the office was told that i cannot even see the proposals
received without brads specific authorization ) - brad has no idea even as to what questions to ask. he
knows little of finance, is run roughshod over by almost everyone in the office. he is a little man , using
your power, to appear larger . Eileen was self aware enough to know she was over her head , that is a huge
difference. bad info is rampant ie 3 million in deductions Im told are taken for art space but on closer
examination it turns out they cannot be used at all. (ZERO benefit ) though you will be told yes they
were deducted on the return they said that is the question they get asked!  were they deducted not -
is there a benefit !! I asked for the balance sheet and P and L for Regan arts , a basic first step in
order to check your financials. sorry we never got one? though 9.8 million invested, no p&l, nothing ,
a construction project run amok , no budget, the coo fired after only 3 months. , no clue . I can add that
artspace financials are also a total mess.

As your friend and in order toturn the page. I will try to be constructive
The following is a list of things I think would be in your interest to get done asap .but definitely not by
me.

isuggest you form new grats. , hire a high level tax partner. use your trading accounts as they remain
the paramount requirement 16 months after i emailed to you their importance. , I suggest you consider
having the 49percent of phaidon merged into artspance and have Richard buy artspace. re-do bank

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023247
