THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA

PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)

The House of the Noble Man

15.10.2010

2 Cornwall Terrace, a magnificent 18th-century building off Regent’s Park and a stone’s throw from Frieze art fair,
will be the venue for this spectacular exhibition featuring Old Masters and famous names from contemporary art,
including Picasso, Manet, Cézanne, Damien Hirst, Banksy, Martin Kippenberger and Gerhard Richter. Work from
the Saatchi Gallery’s ‘New Sensations 2010 ‘ including jotta artist Joshua Bilton also on show.

The show imagines the house’s inhabitant as a hugely successful trader. Having used his mastery of technology
and the possibilities of the information age to amass vast wealth, he aspires to find a shaping narrative for the
etiolated form of his existence. Art is one of the avenues in his search.

He may live in a nobleman’s house, but he’s no blue blood. A tax exile, nomadic by habit, our collector spends his
days - and nights - bathed in the blue light of a computer screen, as he trades in dematerialized securities, or
prices options based on weather conditions on the other side of the globe: drowned cities viewed remotely via
CNN, or better, modelled via a computer simulation.

The roles of the nobleman and artist found a convergence in the figure of Don Quixote, a fool who aspired to the
chivalric codes he’d read about in antiquated texts. But this fantasy was a liberation; allowing him to contend with
base matter, infusing it with near-infinite possibilities, just as the empirical certainties of the Renaissance would
soon give way to the vertiginous perspectives of the new mathematics.

The exhibition updates the Don Quixote model to cast the collector/artist/nobleman as a man without qualities,
occupying the privileged space of the capitalist elite, looking down through a virtual window to plot the
constantly-changing vectors of matter, bodies and events as they hurtle by on the other side of the glass.
Curated by Victoria lonina-Golembiovskaya and Wolfe Von Lenkiewicz

Friday 15th to Wednesday the 20th October, 11 am - 6 p.m, by appointment only

2 Cornwall Terrace, The Regent's Park, London NW1

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028285
