The Saudis are reliable defenders of the West’s diverse interests in the
region, and have been America’s principal ally in the Middle East for
more than seventy years. The confused notion that Saudi Arabia is
synonymous with radical Islam is falsely based on the Western notion
that “one size fits all.” Fundamentalists supporting the Islamic State in
the Kingdom violate the rule of law at home, and the Saudis’ strong
efforts to prevent the export of terrorism. Saudi senior leaders desire
good relations with the West and see the Islamic State and Jihadist
terrorism as threatening to their very rule. Through the safeguarding
of the Holy Cities of Mecca and Medina, which remain open to tens of
millions of foreign visitors and differing Islamic beliefs, the Kingdom
has a unique window into the actions and motivations of radical
fundamentalists who pass in and out of those always accessible cities.
By sharing that intelligence, the Saudis greatly enhance America’s
security.

Like it or not, the military option most unpopular with America’s
voters and politicians may be its best. Bashar Assad may well be our
only hope in fighting the various terrorist factions that are attempting
to form an ISIS state. If America agrees that putting boots on the
ground would be impractical and ineffective, then a self-governed
“Syria State” must be the entity that reaches settlements with the
various factions that are causing the mass migration of thousands of
Syrians to Europe, the USA and elsewhere. The only solution is one
that works with Russia and not against them. Our vacuum forced that
hand, because we are no longer the lonesome superpower shaping
Middle East foreign policy.

When the USA had a narrow set of interests during the Cold War era,
acting prudently in favor of well-defined and communicated
objectives, its actions were more effective. But as the objectives
changed, and America attempted to democratize autocracies, the
broadening of goals led to a corresponding weakening of results. A
clear direction in the Middle East is imperative, not just to enhance
Middle Eastern nation-state interests, but to protect US interests at
home, as well as abroad.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031722
