Western Europe, it’s going to come to the United Kingdom. And so I think we are in a
crisis of the underpinnings of capitalism, and on top of that we’re now, I believe, at the

beginning stages of a global war against Islamic fascism.

“With all the baggage that those [right-wing]
groups bring — and trust me, a lot of them
bring a lot of baggage, both ethnically and

racially— but we think that will all be worked
through with time.”

Benjamin Harnwell, Human Dignity Institute: Thank you, Steve. That was a
fascinating, fascinating overview. I am particularly struck by your argument, then, that in
fact, capitalism would spread around the world based on the Judeo-Christian foundation
is, in fact, something that can create peace through peoples rather than antagonism,
which is often a point not sufficiently appreciated. Before I turn behind me to take a
question —

Bannon: One thing I want to make sure of, if you look at the leaders of capitalism at that
time, when capitalism was I believe at its highest flower and spreading its benefits to most
of mankind, almost all of those capitalists were strong believers in the Judeo-Christian
West. They were either active participants in the Jewish faith, they were active
participants in the Christians’ faith, and they took their beliefs, and the underpinnings of
their beliefs was manifested in the work they did. And I think that’s incredibly important
and something that would really become unmoored. I can see this on Wall Street today —
I can see this with the securitization of everything is that, everything is looked at as a
securitization opportunity. People are looked at as commodities. I don’t believe that our
forefathers had that same belief.

Harnwell: Over the course of this conference we’ve heard from various points of view
regarding alleviation of poverty. We’ve heard from the center-left perspective, we’ve

heard from the socialist perspective, we’ve heard from the Christian democrat, if you will,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029068
