occurred in the capital markets in the world.

With regard to your point that the attraction of foreign investment has been among the priorities of economic
mobility in the UAE; it is an inaccurate assumption. Investment plans have no limits or boundaries. There are
foreign investments in the UAE, and the=2 OUAE in its turn has countless investments in many regions of the
world. Investments imply promising opportunities ina favorable environment. This is what attracted foreign
investment to the UAE, and the investment environment remains favorable in the UAE; the opportunities are
still promising, and the UAE 1s still the most important regional center for business and international trade.
Today, it is more promising than ever before, and the advent of smart investors to the UAE has not stopped.
By Ro’ya Al Iqtesadiah newspaper

Security and profit are two very important concepts for the investor, and it is known
that the UAE has been a breeding ground for the development of capital in recent years.
This was reflected on the arrival of the most prominent businessmen, major companies
and famous brands to the country. The active UAE financial market contributed to the
success of many companies, which turned into public joint stock companies, with billions
of dirhams having been pumped into their capital. This means that thousands of
investors were involved in the ownership of shares. Recently, however, we have witnessed
legal and financial issues involving prominent names of UAE nationals. What does Your
Highness have to say with regard to the investment community in the UAE on the
capacity of governmental oversight of corporate governance and management of the
shareholders and their rights?

These legal issues are evidence of firm government20concern about good corporate governance and its
commitment to sound accounting principles, rules of governance and transparency. The government is
constantly working to develop bodies, procedures and safeguards. No one 1s above the law in the UAE, and
whoever crosses the line will be sought by judicial authorities and legally tried.

By Ro’ya Al Iqtesadiah newspaper

In light of the talk about the scarcity of liquidity in the domestic market, Dubai US$20
billion in bonds. Central Bank is subscribing to $10 billion of those bonds. Officials of the
Emirate stated that there is no current need for the rest of the money. Does this mean that
the Government of Dubai has closed the doors for new subscription to a second tranche?
Will support be provided by the Government of Dubai for the companies as a grant?

The doors to subscription have not been shut down. The subscriptions so far meet our requirements. The
support given to companies is not a grant, because its origin is the bill, and companies possess productive assets
that enable them to meet all the requirements. The problem of these companies is part of the liquidity problem
that has afflicted the financial system and banking world.

By Ro’ya Al Iqtesadiah newspaper

Looking at the entities that will avail from Dubai government’s financial support, can we
say that Dubai government affiliate companies have overestimated their financial
capabilities to cover development requirements, then subsequently their administrations
became responsible for the level of these companies’ transparency in handling their
projects?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024948
