260 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

write out the symbols in a table and assign a musical note to each. It is
straightforward to put these notes into a synthesizer and play the piece
of music. I have provided a link to such a piece. Warning: once you listen
to this you will have been ‘creatively inoculated’

This resulting piece of music, based on the transliteration of a proof,
is non-computable. You might immediately argue with this, “The piece
of music was translated from proof text to music file using a computer. It
is clearly computed. but this is not my point. The music could not have
come into existence in our Universe as a result of a computation. It is a
computable translation of a non-computable string. It could not have
been generated solely by a computer: It was done in two steps, the first of
which could not have been computed.

If, up to this time, our Universe has never contained a piece of
music that was generated non-computationally, it does now. If you listen
to this piece, you will find it impossible not to be somewhat inspired by
it. You cannot erase the experience from your memory. And once you
have heard it you will have been creatively inoculated. I have defeated
Daniel Dennett and his like, and given you creative freedom!

www.jamestagg.com/noncompmusic

Having made at least some music above the Turing limit I could
declare victory but I want to go further. Using the same reduction method,
I believe we can show all art is above the limit. First let’s attempt novels
and plays. Do you enjoy those crime novels by Agatha Christie and Colin
Dexter? It must be possible to construct a plot sufficiently complex, and
a murder sufficiently baffling that it exceeds the logic limit. I could keep
extending this idea to provide any number of examples and, therefore,
prove all art and creative output is above the logic limit.

There are many other arts we could apply this argument too. In
the visual domain there are non-computable images. In principle, it is
possible, to draw or paint things beyond the capability of a computer.
Roger Penrose has created non-computable visual puzzles such as tiling
an infinite plain with special jigsaw pieces. Creating an image containing
a solution to his visual puzzle is non-computable.

This extension argument also applies to me. There is an argument
that I am a finite being and therefore can be simulated by a computer.
Since I can be simulated by a computer, I am the same as a computer
and therefore incapable of non-computable thought. The argument is as
follows: James Tagg will have during his life a finite number of inputs and,
equally, a finite set of outputs. This means you could model me using a

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015950
