EMERY CELLI BRINCKERHOFF & ABADY LLP
Page 3

they were raw.” Notably, in these emails, Ms. [J mentions Professor Dershowitz, but she
does not allege that she was trafficked to or had sex with him.

As you know, Ms. EEE provided this information, on the record, to a New
York Post journalist with the expressed hope that it would be published. Although these
allegations, if credible, would have been the story of a lifetime — videos and eye witness
accounts of sexual misconduct by two presidential candidates, a former president, and one of the
world’s leading entrepreneurs— the New York Post declined to publish them, presumably, and
not surprisingly, because it did not find Ms. MM credible. Nonetheless, thereafter, Ms.
| represented by the same lawyers who represent the plaintiff in the above-captioned
case, was permitted to testify that Professor Dershowitz had sex with her. These same lawyers
have now provided documents to the Washington Post repeating the false charges, but have
failed to provide the Post with the emails that fatally undermine them. These selective
disclosures, and this use of the court’s protective and sealing orders “as a sword,” are manifestly
improper.

Professor Dershowitz intends to pursue all available remedies for violations of the
district court’s orders, including sanctions. That said, to remedy the gross imbalance in available
information created by counsel’s improper disclosures, we ask that the parties’ counsel
immediately agree to a stipulation, to be so-ordered by Judge Sweet, unsealing and removing the
confidentiality designations from Ms. HEEB emails. This will allow for full public
disclosure of these matters—where their falsity, exposed to the “sunlight” of public review, will
be manifest—and it will permit Professor Dershowitz to respond fully to the accusations
plaintift’s counsel leaked to the Washington Post. Only with such full disclosure can the public
decide who is telling the truth.

Please let us know your response to this request by noon on February 9, 2018.

Very truly yours,

Andrew G. Celli, Jr.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019299
