204

“T don’t know him, but I know someone who does,” he answered. “Why are you interested
in seeing Kucherena?”

I told him that I wanted to speak to him about Snowden but that I had been unable to arrange
a meeting.

“That’s no problem,” he said, raising his cell phone (which never left his hand.) He hit a number
the speed dial, and spoke rapidly in Russian (which I do not understand.) He cupped his hand
over the phone and asked how long I would be in Moscow.

After I told him that I was leaving on Friday, he spoke again in to the person on the other end.
“You will have an appointment on Thursday,” he said.

Later that afternoon Valentina, Kucherena’s assistant, called to say that Kucherena would be
happy to see me at his office at 6 PM on Thursday. I didn’t ask Lugovoy who he had called or
how this had happened. Clearly, whoever Lugovoy called had the power to arrange the meeting.
Power evidently works in unseen ways in Putin’s Russia.

Kucherena’s office was only two subway stops from the National hotel, and I arrived ten
minutes early. A receptionist showed me into a well-lit square room with an elegant table in the
center. There was a sumptuous basket of exotic fruit on the table and large portraits of
racehorses on the walls. Another door opened, and a tall, graceful woman came into the room
and introduced herself as “Valentina.” She was wearing a well-fitting black dress, striking jade
necklace and high heels. When she asked whether I would like anything to drink, it seemed more
like the prelude to an elegant dinner party than an interview about Snowden.

As Kucherena did not speak English, I brought Zamir along to translate for the conversation,
but Valentina also spoke very good English. She apologized for the delay in responding to my
requests, explaining that she received “thousands of requests” for interviews and did not have
time to answer them. When I asked how many were answered, she shrugged and said “not
many.”

At that moment, Kucherena entered with a jaunty step, a cherubic face and an untamed white
hair. He was wearing grey slacks, a partially buttoned cashmere polo sweater and a fully engaging
smile.

As [had learned from his entry in Wikipedia, he was born in a small village in the Soviet
Socialist Republic of Moldavia in 1960, and he had obtained his law degree from the All-Union
Correspondence Law Institute in 1991. He opened his own law firm in Moscow in 1995.
Kucherena’s well-known friendship with Putin evidently had not hurt his law practice. His clients
had included such well-connected defendants as Viktor Yanukovych, the overthrown president of
Ukraine in 2014; Grigory Leps, a Russian singer blacklisted by the U.S. for allegedly acting as a
money courier for a Eurasian criminal organization; Valentin Kovalev, a former Russian Minister

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020356
