consensus rather than supports one school over another. | think it is the consensus
view, as well as Keynes’, that his “attempted saving” means gross saving (gross
income less consumption) not invested in new productive assets. That can be

written as

Keynesian attempted saving - transfer payments

= Keynesian net saving = Keynesian net investment,

at any scale.

| accept Keynes’ definition of transfer payments, and | recognize the importance of
his distinction of those from investment in new productive assets which put idle
plant and workers to work. My interpretation, even so, is that it is better to leave
them idle than to put them to work unproductively. Keynes made his opposite view
crystal-clear with his brilliant tongue-in-cheek parable of money buried in
mineshafts and idle workers hired to dig it up. He had a sense of theater as well as a
great mind. And he just might have been right. But I think my way of putting things
encompasses that possibility. His mineshaft scenario works if it somehow

maximizes return in the big picture.

My language differs from Keynes’ in several ways. I prefer Myrdal’s ex ante - ex post
dichotomy, published three years after the General Theory, to Keynes’ equivalent
attempted-realized one. Like Myrdal, and unlike Keynes, I apply it to investment as
well as saving. That’s why | treat them as synonymous. And | prefer to recognize
human capital explicitly. Keynes surely understood the concept. He was the star
pupil of Alfred Marshall's later teaching career, unless he shared that distinction
with his lifelong personal friend and professional adversary Arthur Pigou, and
Marshall and Pigou both describe human capital in principle. Marshall wrote that he
neglected it as something outside what he saw as the main sequence ending with
consumption. Keynes could have agreed, or could have meant to provide for it

implicitly by defining output as investment plus consumption while realizing that

Chapter 4 Mill’s Idea 1/11/16 6

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010997
