The value-added tax, which is popular in many other countries, would serve as a kind of national sales tax, one that
consumers would pay when they make purchases and that businesses would pay for supplies, services and raw
materials. A carbon tax would target the emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouses gases in the burning of

gasoline, coal and other fossil fuels.

The study of the new options — which would represent major changes to American economic policy — comes as the
administration looks to tax reform as its next major battleground for implementing its agenda. Trump wants to cut

taxes sharply, but his advisers are looking for ways to raise revenue so as not to create a giant hole in the deficit.

Administration officials stressed that no final decision has been made and they are reviewing different alternatives.
Two officials and a third person confirmed the consideration of the value-added tax, while one official and the third

person confirmed the consideration of the carbon tax.

The search for new options reflects a recognition of the political challenges facing a proposal known as a border-
adjustment tax that the White House and some Republicans had begun to rally around. The proposal, effectively a tax
on imports, would not only raise needed revenue but also serve to fulfill Trump’s pledge to protect American

companies from unfair export competition.

The tax would create incentives for companies to manufacture and produce goods domestically. But the proposal is
unpopular with many other Republicans, who have said it would raise costs for consumers on things such as

automobiles, electronics and clothing.

A value-added tax and a carbon tax have long been favored tools among economists, including some on the right, to
raise revenue in a way that supports economic growth. But the prospect of any new taxes has long drawn skepticism

from Republicans.

Amanda Ens

Director

Bank of America Merrill Lynch

Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated
One Bryant Park, 5th Floor, New York, NY 10036

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014858
