modified will not likely change the outlook. LM feels its strong positioning in global
distribution and product sets bodes well to perform in a new fiduciary world.

¢ Additionally, a lower potential U.S. corporate tax rate will not change its cash tax
rate which is likely to be 6-7% through 2021 and in the mid-teens through 2025
after that. However, it would impact GAAP EPS and a lower corporate tax rate
would lower the value of LM’s DTA.

AB (AB), B-1-8, Buy
Presenting from AB was Peter Kraus, Chairman & CEO. Peter expects AB to
generate above average organic growth and hopes to accelerate it given its product
mix and mostly favorable investment performance. In addition, he sees the potential
for new pricing in the industry, and does not expect a significant change in the DOL
impact from the election or a lower corporate tax rate on their tax rate.

e When asked what would get you more interested in AB’s stock, 55% of investors
said they wanted to see consistent positive organic growth, 18% said a better
operating margin, another 18% said diversification from fixed income flows (i.e.
equity and alternative flows), and only 9% of investors wanted to see a simplified
structure and increased float.

Chart 59: What would get you more interested in investing in AB stock?

70%

60%

50%

40%

30%

20%

10%

0%

Consistent positive organic | Operatingleverage andan — Further diversification from Amore simplified structure and
growth improving margin fixed income flows increased float

Source: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research

« AB has seen and expects to continue to see above average organic growth (ex 3Q
which was weighed down by lumpy institutional outflows) given a relatively new
and attractive product set, strong investment performance (notable improvement in
recent years), better traction with the consultant community, and opportunities to
gain in the retail and private wealth channels.

¢ Regarding potential changes post the election, AB had a similar tone to other asset
managers on DOL, in the sense that it likely gets delayed/modestly modified, but
regardless of what happens, asset managers and distributors need to accept that
the industry is living in a new fiduciary world with minimized (potentially no)
conflicts of interest which ultimately is a good thing for end clients. A lower
potential corporate tax rate would not likely benefit AB given its tax structure/low
current tax rate.

BankofAmerica <2”

40 2016 Future of Financials Conference | 17 November 2016 Merrill Lynch

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014354
