all broke out into laughter. It was those fun times that made me feel like
we were all apart of this really perplexed family. We did everything
together similar to normal families like eat dinner, watch TV, and travel it
was only the hedonistic and corrupt side to these two deviates that made
them a peculiar pair.

Getting turned on at the two of us playing together, Jeffrey came over
to the couch we were on and pulled down his sweatpants revealing his
erect manhood. All of the laughter stopped, now it was time for work.
Pushing my head into his pubic region I had to give into his perverted
wants. Ghislane started to undress me. Once I was bare she loved starting
with my breasts. She cupped them in her hands and brushed her fingers
over my hardened nipples heading downwards pressing her lips deeply
into my skin, I had to maneuver my body on the couch in a complex
position to give them both what they wanted. And just like that, without
even a moment’s notice I could be put on the spot and have to amuse
them in any way they wanted. A shameful way to make someone feel like
aused toy, I wasn’t around for companionship I was there for one thing, I
was a compliant piece of eye candy.

Twenty minutes later and Jeffrey had erupted in pleasure. Ghislane sat
up, still fully dressed, and wiped the sides of her mouth with her hands,
giving a vindictive little chuckle, “That was fun.” Jeffrey concurred with
asly grin arching his back for a stretch just looking able to utter the
request “Why don’t you come up with me upstairs for a steam bath and
massage, I need to be loosened up after that?” It was more of a statement
than a request, as if I had the choice to say “No thanks, I’m actually tired
myself and would love to just relax” instead | would reply with my
accustomed trained obedience, “No problem, when your ready lead the
way.” I had to get dressed again being that we were in Ghislane’s
downstairs office. Putting my clothes back on, Ghislane thought she had
buttered him up just where she wanted him to ask for him to come have a
look at her new townhouse renovations when he was finished with his
massage. A very strange relationship those two have, there’s a definite
love flowing between them but not a passionate one, more like a
respectful business, he gets what he wants...an uncountable number of
girls and she gets what she wants, simple and sweet...an uncountable
amount of money. The two things in life that can create such beautiful
moments or the most horrendously terrible of them all, is sex and money.

Chapter 15

93

I joined him for a shower, steam bath and concluded his needs with a
massage while listening to classical music. I knew he didn’t want
anything sexual from me now seeing he got what he already wanted
downstairs, no this one was purely therapeutic. My favorite massages to
give, making me feel like an actual real therapist. I lathered him in
aromatic oils and let my hands discover the ways to unlock the stresses
that his body held. After the massage was concluded we were going
downstairs to get ready to go see Ghislane’s townhouse as he had

promised her earlier. He loved taking the hidden staircase while | hated it.

I was so creeped out by his choice of décor, the blood red carpets, violent
medieval paintings, and sculptures of the pagan god Pan, all of it
representing the darker side of hedonism his lifestyle provoked. Spiraling
down the hallway along with each step you took came with a pair of eyes
that followed your every step. Brown, blue, green, hazel, all of the colors
were there, staring at you the entire way down. As each step progressed,
so would my anxiety to get out of there.

We found Ghislane where we had left her, in her office. She had just
received an order in, a satellite camera with a twelve-inch flat screen. She
told us how it was used to pick up any person in any location with the
quick insert of an address. Quite a powerful new toy I thought, but it was
only a minute display of what the rich could afford, what use they would
get out of it was another concern. Soon after she was done figuring out
the controls on the camera, we made a rare and first for me pit stop, the
security room. What I thought was our way out by the front door was
another hidden door. I was in shock as I was led into a room, so discreet
that in three years I never even knew it existed. | kept my head down
most of the time, knowing how secretive this must be being another door
was an entire security base within his mansion. What I could see when |
stole a glimpse here and there was an array of tiny screens, twenty odd or
something. Small screens showing various rooms of the mansion | had
recognized. The images were constantly changing so'l found it hard to
pinpoint an exact location but from the décor and short glimpses |
suddenly knew from then on that my feelings of my every move being
watched inside his corridors was now more than a possibility but was
actually happening. Jeffrey spoke to an obese Spanish guy at the desk,
whose job was to disgustingly overlook all of the video feedback. Kill
two birds with one stone Jeffrey thought, free porn to share with all of his
pedophile friends and when the occasion called for it, a security system
all at one expense. Ever consumed with making money as well as saving
it, | was again astonished at Jeffrey’s capabilities. | didn’t want to even
think how deep the video infiltrated, pretending like I never saw anything
at all I put the memory to the back of my mind and went on about my
day. Stopping at Ghislane’s new townhouse, another gift bought and paid

94

(2 Copyright Protected Material 0 Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004226 CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004227

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021191
