Edwards, Bradley vs. Dershowitz

Case No.: CACE 15-000072

Edwards and Cassells Response to Dershowitz's Motion to Determine Confidentiality of Court Records
Page 8 of 20

Because the Government now contested the joinder motion, Edwards and
Cassell prepared a more detailed pleading explaining the justification for granting the
motion. One week after receiving the Government’s objection, on December 30, 2014, Ms.
Giuffre (i.e., Jane Doe No. 3) and Jane Doe No. 4 filed a motion (and later a corrected motion)
seeking to join the case. DE 279 and DE 280. (Note: DE 280 is the first of the three documents
Dershowitz seeks to have declared “confidential” in this case.) Uncertain as to the basis for the
Government’s objection, the motion briefly proffered the circumstances that would qualify
the two women as “victims” eligible to assert rights under the CVRA. See 18 U.S.C. 3771(e)
(defining “crime victim” protected under the Act). With regard to Ms. Giuffre, the motion
indicated that when she was a minor, Jeffrey Epstein had trafficked her to Dershowitz and Prince
Andrew (among others) for sexual purposes. Jane Doe No. 3 stated that she was prepared to
prove her proffer. See DE 280 at 3 (“If allowed to join this action, Jane Doe No. 3 would prove
the following . ... “). The motion also provided specific reasons why Jane Doe No. 3’s
participation was relevant to the case, including the pending discovery issues regarding
Dershowitz and Prince Andrew. DE 280 at 9-10 (explaining several reasons participation of new
victims was relevant to existing issues).

After the motion was filed, various news organizations published articles about
it. Dershowitz also made numerous media statements about the filing, including calling Jane
Doe No. 3 “a serial liar” who “has lied through her teeth about many world

leaders.” —_ http://www.cnn.com/2015/01/06/us/dershowitz-sex-allegation/, Dershowitz also

repeatedly called Edwards and Cassell “two sleazy, unprofessional, disbarable lawyers.” Id On

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010764
