this drama's subtle humor gets big laughs leading up to its emotional
ending.

Within two weeks, at The Toronto Film Festival, Harvey Weinstein is now
standing with his filmmakers witnessing the same reaction. The film wins
The Audience Prize. Their strategy is to say nothing. Do nothing. They
have a possible Oscar winner. Four out of five past Best Pictures have
premiered in Toronto.

Cut to New York City at the end of September. It's the opening night at
The Film Society of Lincoln Center. One of America's most important and
prolific producers Scott Rudin, along with Jesse Eisenberg, Andrew
Garfield and Aaron Sorkin are in a brightly lit box waving down to their
equally hysterical audience who have just seen The Social Network.

The film opens the next day to rave reviews and endless publicity. David
Fincher is off making The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo. Aaron Sorkin
becomes the face of the film and an immediate shoo-in for an Oscar.

The Hamptons International Film Festival in October suddenly becomes a
launching pad for 127 Hours, where cool Yale/NYU student James Franco
appears and receives a heroic standing ovation. More Oscar buzz.

Black Swan also unspools there in a tiny theater as Madonna, Alec

Baldwin and even Harvey Weinstein slip in the back. Darren Aronofsky,
sporting the ever present cool wool scarf around his neck is hailed a
genius. Natalie Portman is instantly the hot nominee for Best Actress.

Both films are sensational and movie goers go nuts, but it is The
King's Speech that edges out the competition for The Audience Prize.

Mid-November David O. Russell and Mark Wahlberg, working together for
the third time, sneak The Fighter in Manhattan. As their audience
erupts in cheers, I tell producer/actor Wahlberg, Clint Eastwood is
going to kill himself for not directing this. Wahlberg says, You are
wrong. He turned it down because he's done it. He has seen it and he
loves it. I instantly lavish my affection and praise on David O.
Russell, who becomes my new Clint Eastwood. Christian Bale and Melissa
Leo are hailed the supporting actors to beat.

True Grit directed by the Coen Brothers and also produced by Scott
Rudin doesn't premiere till mid-December at the Ziegfeld as the last
serious Oscar contender for Best Picture. It gallops off to box office
gold.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012691
