James PATTERSON 4

“T don't know this woman. I've never been in the same place with
her. She’s made the whole story up out of whole cloth.” ;

Bradley Edwards had already become involved in lawsuits
against Epstein. In 2007, working with a former federal judge
and University of Utah law professor named Paul Cassell, he had
Gled a lawsuit on behalf of another unnamed woman. Six years
later, that case is still pending, and now, Edwards and Cassell i
petition to have the two suits combined.

Allin all, four Jane Does take part in the lawsuit.

Jane Doe 3 is Virginia Roberts, the girl who says that Ghis-
laine Maxwell recruited her for Epstein at Trump's resort,
Mar-a-Lago.

Epstein had “lent” her and other young girls to prominent
businessmen, important politicians, world leaders, and other  s
powerful men in order “to ingratiate himself with them for busi-

ness, personal, political, and financial gain, as well as to obtain

blackmail information,” Roberts claims.

She says that Epstein forced her and other underage girls to
take part in an orgy in the Virgin Islands.

She names Prince Andrew and Alan Dershowitz as two of the 4
men she'd been forced to have sex with and claims that Der 9
showitz had been “an eyewitness to the sexual abuse of many q
other minors by Epstein and several of Epstein's co-conspirators. 7

This time, Prince Andrew does respond to the allegations. a

“This relates to longstanding and ongoing civil proceedings P
in the United States, to which the Duke of York is not a party,”
Buckingham Palace says in a short statement. “As such we would ,
not comment on the detail. However, for the avoidance of doubly

any suggestion of impropriety with underage minors is catego if

na
4

cally untrue.” 3
ig

Alan Dershowitz also ;
are part of a plot to exto
Edwards and Cassell have {
he’s ever seen.

“They manipulated a y
interested in money,” Ders
offense, and they will be d:
ever made this false charge

But then, the allegations m
15, 2015, in a declaration
attempt to overturn Jeffrey E
are highly disturbing.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022049
