Freedom House

chines, with their vast patronage networks, that pre-
sided over American cities a half-century ago. Fidesz
is apparently seeking to ensure that rival parties will
never have access to the funds or influence necessary
to unseat the incumbent government.

ls Orban a Central European version of Putin?
Orban's domestic critics have often compared his
governing style to that of Russian president Vladimir
Putin. On the surface, the comparison seems unfair.
Hungary is still rated Free by Freedom House. It still
has genuine opposition parties, however weak, in
parliament, a relatively unfettered civil society sector,
freedom of assembly, and other civil liberties. Hungary

has also been spared the routine violence that marks
Russian politics.

But Orban also began his current tenure in an environ-
ment very different from the Russia inherited by Putin.
Hungary had been a successful, if flawed, democracy
for two decades before Orban took office in 2010.

t was a member of the European Union (EU) and
subject to that bloc’s norms and regulations. It was
also a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organiza-
tion (NATO). For Hungarians, the events of 1989 led to
democratic liberties and freedom from foreign domi-
nation. For Russia, 1989 and 1991 meant the loss of a
vast empire and the beginning of a decade of political
and economic upheaval.

Given their different contexts, the striking feature in a
Putin-Orban comparison is the similarities. The follow-
ing are some of the more obvious:

¢ Both have repeatedly expressed disdain for
“Western” liberal values.

¢ Both have employed a combination of control
over state broadcasters and crony ownership of
the private press to dominate the mainstream
media, though Hungary's environment remains
notably more free than Russias.

¢ Both have hollowed out the institutions that
provide oversight and transparency regarding
actions by the executive branch.

¢ Both have made clear their dislike for civil
society organizations that pursue reformist or
human rights missions. While Orban has yet to
enact Russian-style laws to declare such groups
“foreign agents’ or ban them as “undesirable,” Fi-

desz has announced the intention to introduce
parliamentary legislation designed to harass
NGOs and curb their funding.'?

¢ Both have seized political opportunities offered
by the presence of ethnic compatriots in sur-
rounding countries. Putin has exploited sup-
posed discrimination against ethnic Russians
and certain other minorities in Ukraine, Georgia,
Moldova, and the Baltic states as justification
for military intervention or hostile propaganda.
Orban has brought nearby Hungarian minorities
into his political coalition by giving them the
right to vote in Hungarian national elections and
making it even easier for them to cast ballots
than it is for Hungarian citizens who are tempo-
rarily working in Europe or elsewhere.

¢ Asa matter of high priority, both Orban and Pu-
tin have secured domination over the judiciary
with the goal of removing its role as a check on
their power.

‘Law and Justice’ in Poland

Like Hungary, Poland was until recently regarded as
one of the chief success stories from the wave of de-
mocratization that accompanied the end of the Cold
War. Poland's democratic institutions were imperfect,
and the economic gains that were made possible by a
rapid changeover to free-market policies were spread
unevenly among the Polish people. But the achieve-
ments seemed to outweigh the deficiencies. The
country's rate of growth was impressive by European
standards; it was one of the few EU member states to
emerge relatively unscathed from the financial crisis
of 2008. Its leaders exercised influence within the EU
and NATO, and enjoyed global respect.

According to the leaders of the archconservative Law
and Justice (PiS) party, however, Poland was a deeply
troubled society whose system of government was in
need of a top-to-bottom overhaul.

Ahead of the 2015 elections, PiS appropriated a vo-
cabulary similar to that of Fidesz in its 2010 campaign.
lt depicted the center-right government as the archi-
tect of a failed economy. It denounced mainstream
leaders as more comfortable with the cosmopolitan
liberal values of Brussels and Berlin than with the
traditional Christian morality of rural Poland. And PiS
suggested that the liberal establishment that had gov-
erned for most of the postcommunist period had “sto-

www.freedomhouse.org

37

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019271
