The biggest network we use is the Givelndia network. Working with their team allows us to screen and monitor, before that
we were able to support a handful of NGOs. Now we have a reasonable portfolio across all the areas we are interested in. |
don’t think that scale up would be able to happen if we hadn't leveraged the Givelndia team.”

Back to top
Global Health and Development — Full text articles

Paton the back or force for good: what purpose do development awards serve?
Mark Tran — Guardian blog

Divyesh Thakkar has just returned from refugee camps in Ethiopia, where he was surprised to see portable solar lanterns
designed by his company still in use three years after their distribution.

The batteries for the prototype lamps were expected to last only two years, but were still functioning at the Jijiga camp near
the Somali border.

It's amazing they're still working and to see them changing lives, said Thakkar, who is based in Leicester. People are
going to university thanks to the lamp.

The solar lantern, which looks like an old-fashioned kerosene hurricane lamp, won an innovation award last year at AidEx,
an annual trade show bringing together suppliers and buyers of products for the aid industry. The lamp has a built-in solar
panel to charge its four AA-sized batteries.

The lantern has an obvious advantage over kerosone-fuelled equivalents: with no flame or smoke emissions, it is safer and
more environmentally friendly. The batteries are made for 500 cycles, or about two years, but the longevity of the lamps in
Ethiopia has come as a pleasant surprise. In a novel twist, the lantern, which costs $38 (£24.50), can also be used to charge
mobile phones.

The award provided a huge fillip for Thakkar's company, Sunlite. As word spread, relief agencies placed increasingly large
orders. About 100,000 of the lamps have been (or are being) used after emergencies in Japan, the Philippines, Thailand and
Syria.

Sunlite makes 15,000 lamps a month at two plants in India, including one in a special economic zone in Gujarat state.

Next month, there will be a new winner at AidEx in Brussels, the third year of the award. The innovation award sits alongside
a crowded field of honours in the development world, although AidEx is geared more towards humanitarian needs.

Awards seem to be proliferating. Last month, 53 finalists met in Washington to showcase ideas to save the lives of mothers
and newborns in developing countries. The award is given by the Saving Lives at Birth partnership, launched in 2011, which
includes USAid, Norway, Grand Challenges Canada, backed by the Canadian government, the UK's Department for
International Development, and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

In October, the Mo Ibrahim foundation will announce its prize for achievement in African leadership, established in 2007.
Past winners include presidents Joaquim Chissano and Festus Gontebanye Mogae, of Mozambique and Botswana
respectively, although the prize is not awarded if no one meets the criteria.

Sceptics may wonder whether these accolades contribute meaningfully to development, or exist only to make donors feel
good while sidestepping more fundamental, structural issues. Forinstance, the Gates foundation awarded $100,000 to the
California Institute of Technology last year for designing a solar-powered toilet that breaks down water and human waste
into hydrogen gas for use in fuel cells.

The competition was for next-generation toilets to improve sanitation in the developing world. Would that money have

been better spent on supporting community-led total sanitation — a project to end open defecation that has had considerable
success?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028639
