Best regards,

Craig D. Jacoby
Cooley LLP | 101 California Street | 5th Floor
San Francisco, CA 94111-5800

E-mail:
Direct: Fax

Bio | Practice | @cjacoby | LinkedIn

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use,
disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please contact the sender by reply email and destroy all copies of the original
message. If you are the intended recipient, please be advised that the content of this message is subject to access, review and disclosure by the sender's Email

System Administrator.

IRS Circular 230 disclosure: To ensure compliance with requirements imposed by the IRS, we inform you that any U.S. federal tax advice contained in this
communication (including any attachment) is not intended or written by us to be used, and cannot be used, (i) by any taxpayer for the purpose of avoiding tax
penalties under the Internal Revenue Code or (ii) for promoting, marketing or recommending to another party any transaction or matter addressed herein.

De ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee i ee ee a

The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of

Jeffrey Epstein

Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited
and may be unlawful. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and
destroy this communication and all copies thereof,
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved

De eee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee a

The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of

Jeffrey Epstein

Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030952
