How to Teach the Twelve Cognitive Processes 127

what is inside each egg by shaking and listening to the sound
generated. After he takes a first guess, show him the list of what
items are in each egg and have him guess again. See if he changes
his mind about some of the previous guesses. Now open the eggs
and see how close the guesses were to what was actually inside
each egg.

Now, let’s make a musical instrument called a kazoo. Cut a
small square of wax paper about 1 inch larger than the end of the
cardboard tube. After doing that, wrap the wax paper over one
of the ends of the tube and put a rubber band over the paper to
hold it in place. Now, put the open end of your kazoo up to your
mouth and hum a tune into it. Notice how the kazoo buzzes and
vibrates to amplify (make louder) the sound of your voice.

Of course, this is not exactly what I have in mind when I suggest focus-
ing school on experimentation. Say the word experiment and the word
science usually follows right away. This is unfortunate because most
kids won’t become scientists any time soon. Also, most kids already
know what they are being asked to “experiment” about. They know
the pencil falls and they know you can make noise by blowing through
things. They may not understand how all this works, but they won’t
understand much mote after doing these so-called “experiments.”

Experiments in the larger sense are about attempts to find out
what is true about things you are uncertain about. The issue is how
to do that when you are wondering about something. To do this we
need to constantly deal with what kids are worrying about and ask
them to determine how they can find out what is true. This is experi-
mentation that can be helped by teachers. It needs to be individually
focused, however. You can’t have a class worry collectively about any
one thing. Each kid has his own concerns,

HOW TO TEACH EVALUATION

For an issue that is so important to so many people, it is astonishing
how difficult this seems to be. Just say no to drugs campaigns don’t
work and people wonder why. Abstinence campaigns don’t work
and people wonder why. It is not all that mysterious. You can’t teach

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023867
