B

the revolutionary youth, having been one of the first to call for the
downfall of the old regime and to advocate less conventional means
of opposition. Yet it is odd that the field is now dominated people
and groups that, in the past, had reached accommodations with the
old regime, even if they had been in the opposition. In fact, it is
precisely these circles that have provided most of the presidential
candidates who are currently flitting from one press interview to the
next.

All this will enter another phase with the legislative elections in
September, at which time we will be able to speak of actual popular
representation. Until then, every candidate, party and group will
claim that they speak for the people, the masses, and the nation,
and they will continue to do so in increasingly strident tones all the
way to the polls, which will ultimately sort day from night.

One naturally wonders who will come out ahead in the forthcoming
electoral battle, which will probably be one of the most crucial
moments in Egyptian history. Certainly, the general lay of the field is
already clear. It is characterised by two main orientations, one
religious, the other secularist. The Muslim Brotherhood, represented
by its Freedom and Justice Party, leads the former camp, which also
consists of Al-Gamaa Al-Islamiya, the Egyptian Jihad and the various
shades of Salafis. They are likely to win the sympathy of quite a few
Sufi orders as well as a number of the old NDP apparatchiks who
often rallied against the Ahmed Nazif government in the pre-
November 2010 parliament. The other camp, which is championed by
a broad front of the movements that spearheaded the revolution and
similar coalitions, is beginning to coalesce in political party form,
although there is little to suggest that their parties will be familiar
enough to the public or sufficiently prepared by election time.
Nevertheless, they will be joined by Egyptian Christians, most of the
liberal and leftist parties, such as the Wafd, the Nasserist Party and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030276
