In the non-Closer To Truth world....

Did CNN Intl this morning on Trump’s China-oil-N.Korea-cheating tweet “Caught RED HANDED...”
[pun deliberate? ]

My favorite fun lines (there are so many) in Trump's NYTimes spontaneous interview.

2) “TI like very much President Xi. He treated me better than anybody’s ever been treated in the history of
China.”

Ever (~5,000 year history)
1) “T know the details of taxes better than anybody — better than the greatest CPA.”

Not, mind you, CPAs in general, not even smart Jewish CPAs who work all the time - but whoever, out
of 664,532 actively licensed CPAs (2016), is the greatest CPA of them all (#1 in citing code? creative
deductions?) - better than him!

On Dec 29, 2017, at 6:19 AM, jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com> wrote:

lets talk today. I went through the candidates in math. . we should talk , I have great hopes for this and am
sure you woud! want to get it right though some of the math people write well , their speakinn style and
presence is less than A , and probaby closertoaC+/ . Im around today or hte weekend if you would like
to chat.

On Fri, Dec 29, 2017 at 1:45 AM, Robert Kuhn wrote:
‘Blahblahs’ forbidden in Radical Breakthroughs’. So we need two replacements (for Multiverse as Science
and Rare Sentience).

Initial ideas:

* Expand the first episode “Mathematics and Truth” into two or likely three episodes. I’m intrigued by this
because there is so much rich material - pure math, philosophy (discovered or invented), physics (Wigner’s
‘unreasonable effectiveness of mathematics in the natural sciences)’, astrophysics, cosmology, biology, general
systems theory. I’ve felt frustrated in this first episode because there is so much material. I think three episodes
could work - if you agree, Ill get back to you with a suggested structure of the 2 or likely 3 parts. Also, Closer
To Truth has had only a few videos and one episode on mathematics per se (out of 277 episodes!), so

this would be original and complementary. In this may, math would become about half the series.

* Integrated Information Theory - quantifying and explaining consciousness (Giulio Tononi, Un of Wisconsin-
Madison), plus supporters and critics. New controversial, science-based radical theory.

* Evolutionary Dynamics - your program at Harvard - mathematical models. This is not an area of my
expertise, but it could well fit Closer To Truth in general and Radical Breakthroughs in particular. But you

need to tell me if you would like to include this.

* Replicability Crisis - Problems in Statistics in Search for Truth. Deep problems of replicability in biomedical
and especially psychological research - the scandal in recent years. See links and attachments.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029123
