The global financial crisis took all countries by surprise and was much bigger than any economy or large
companies across the world. It is not really helpful for anyone to claim wisdom in hindsight. Learning the
lesson well is the true bottom line of this crisis. I have always repeated that only the one who works is one who
is likely to commit errors. But the most important thing 1s to learn not to repeat the same error twice. Definitely
gaps that may be revealed through current reform efforts will be immediately addressed and rectified.

By Ro’ya Al Iqtesadiah newspaper

Your Highness, you have put Emiratization on top of the country’s development
priorities. Over the years, the UAE population has grown significantly to the extent that
expat residents have become absolute majority. Meanwhile, number of private sector
companies has significantly increased as well. How do you see this impacting the UAE
nationals’ job opportunities? Do you believe it might be necessary to expand the
Emiratization plan to cover a larger portion of the private sector companies?

The Emiratization plan is primarily based on training and qualifying UAE nationals, equipping them with all
necessary tools and competencies and supporting them to confidently compete in the job market. I am positive
that most of the private sector companies prefer to recruit UAE nationals as part of their Corporate Social
Responsibilities. Also salaries of UAE nationals — however high they may appear to be - are far less than those
of expats. Employing a UAE national will open the door for more interaction with government departments and
local customers, who are eventually the highest spenders. If some companies fall short of their responsibilities
toward the local workforce, then the government will intervene through a set of measures and incentives to
encourage these companies to live up to the expected level of responsibility.

By Ro’ya Al Iqtesadiah newspaper

Many countries have applauded the UAE’s hospitality and praised the level of respect it
shows to the expat communities and the freedom it offers them to lead their business and
social lives in perfect ease. This encouraged many expats to reside in the UAE for long
period of time, evolving the same habits and traditions of the local community as well as
significant loyalty to this country. Some of those expats felt optimistic about recent
announcements made by some real estate companies that property buyers in certain
projects in Dubai or Ajman will be offered “permanent UAE residency.” Other
companies have completely closed the door of speculation regarding the same issue. How
does the government perceive=2 Othe “Permanent Residency” promise? And are there
any eventual plans to adopt it in the UAE?

Offering residency is absolutely far beyond the jurisdiction of any real estate company. It is a sovereign issue
governed by laws and regulations. But I wonder if one buys property in London, Paris, Cairo, or Beirut does this
mean obtaining a permanent residency there? We are very keen to ensure convenient conditions for expat
property owners. However, we will be issuing a new law that includes a long multi-visit permit soon.

DALAL ABU GHAZALA, Al Hayat Newspaper

The UAE has proven remarkable capability in managing previous crises, including the
Gulf First or Second Wars and 9/11 events in the US. What are the steps endorsed by the
country’s supreme leadership to overcome the current financial crisis? And do these
measures include re-evaluating the UAE’s strategy and its plans for the coming few
years?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024949
