change the world. Rockefeller and Carnegie were, as examples of social-
engineering philanthropy, unique. They alone had such resources and will.
Now you have legions of people who have to give away vastly larger
fortunes than Rockefeller or Carnegie had at their disposal, or might even
have imagined.

“Except that it’s actually hard to give away this kind of dough,
without causing more problems than you’re solving.”

Epstein’s long-time business thesis is that the rich know very little
about their money. They may know about their own businesses, but the great
sums that are the result are an ultimate after thought and demand an entirely
different sort of intellectual discipline. The Forbes 400, says Epstein, not
immune to an amount of wonder, increased their wealth by $500 billion last
year, meaning, in effect, that every American billionaire makes more than
another billion every year. And, points out the 62-year-old Epstein, they will
almost all be dead in 30 years, most well before that, meaning $2 trillion,
compounding everyday, will have to be given away. “So, to understand the
future, what you have to begin to do is follow the money, not in Watergate-
like terms backwards, as in who has gotten it, but forwards to where it will
go and who will get it.”

Epstein can find himself echoing aspects of Thomas Piketty on the
inequities of the accumulation of wealth (“the divide is between people with
assets, which appreciate, and people without assets, who fail to advance—
that is, of course, the miracle of compounded interest”), except for the fact
that Epstein, knowing the rich, understands a curious point that Piketty
doesn’t: “Nobody, nobody, wants to give it to their children. Everybody now
has the modern appreciation that one of the curses of great wealth is that it
makes your kids weird and fucked up.”

Epstein’s position in this private allotment of a decent fraction of the
U.S. Gross Domestic Product is not as philanthropist but as a higher sort of
banker or guru or brain—a rich whisperer—making him, in addition to rich
himself, arguably, among the most influential people you’ ve never heard of.

Though, likely, you have heard of him, but not for his prowess with
high abstraction, but for a scandal of such luridness that he is, for a great
many, the poster child of the lawlessness of privilege and wealth, and for a
much smaller circle, the poster child for what can happen when you become
the target of a resentful world. He is that Epstein, according to the Daily
Mail—among his most dogged press antagonists—‘‘one of America’s most
notorious sex offenders.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022953
