I published this interview in January 2012 at the gender-lens website RoleReboot.org,
where I had just taken on the role of Sex + Relationships Section Editor. Olivia left the
business in mid-2012, as you can read in the piece that follows this one.

te ok ok

One Blurred Edge of Sex Work: Portrait of a Sugar Baby

Sex work is a controversial and polarized topic, and there are many perspectives on it.
My position is complex -- but for me, when it comes to how we actually interact with sex
workers, one important factor is whether or not they consent to and enjoy their jobs. Iam
absolutely in favor of giving better options to sex workers who do not enjoy their jobs,
and I am horrified by the idea of a person being trafficked or coerced into sex that they
don't want to have. But I also know people who have sex for money 100% voluntarily,
and I do not want to deny their experience.

My friend Olivia, a 25-year-old graduate student, recently started advertising her services
ona Sugar Baby” site called SeekingArrangement.com. I think it's important for more
people to understand these kinds of experiences, so I asked to interview her. Many people
have pointed out that once a person starts thinking about the definition of prostitute, it's
a bit difficult to define what exactly a prostitute is. Some of my sex worker friends have
asked the question: what exactly is the difference between a person whose partner buys
her a fancy dinner after which they have sex -- and a person whose partner buys sex with
money? Olivia has thought at length about this, and I'm grateful to her for sharing her
perspective on that question, and others.

Please note that Olivia is exceptionally privileged. What you are about to read is a
portrait of what the sex industry looks like for a person who is very privileged: she comes
from a white upper-middle-class background, she is not desperate, she is being paid a lot
of money, she does not have a drug addiction. Many other peoples’ experiences in the sex
industry are very different.

Clarisse Thorn: Hey Olivia, thanks so much for being willing to talk about this
incredibly complicated topic. Could you start by defining a sugar baby site? What is
it?

Olivia: I use the site SeekingArrangement.com. I don't actually know how many sugar
baby sites there are, but I get the sense there's more than one. It's very hard to pin down
exactly what it does. I guess it connects people, usually with a big age gap, who are
interested in exchanging some kind of material goods or financial resources for some
form of companionship that is often sexual -- but not always.

As far as I can tell, the site's founder is very against the claim that this is prostitution. He
puts out a lot of publicity claiming that this site has nothing to do with prostitution. At
first I thought that he was trying to evade legal consequences, but I think he actually
probably believes that. The site has a blog that he controls, and you can look at it to get a
sense of what he's thinking. One post I think is really interesting is called Sugar Baby &

Sugar Daddy: The Modern Day Princess & Prince?, which compares being a sugar baby
to a kind of happily ever after princess fantasy.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018609
