with the First Department — which would provide a more fulsome explanation of the District
Attorney’s position — because those documents remained under seal.

The prosecution of Epstein has remained in the news and was recently the subject ofa
wide-ranging investigation by the Miami Herald, which was published on November 28, 2018.
Id. Ex. A. One of several in-depth feature articles published by the Miami Herald was entitled
“Cops worked to put serial sex abuser in prison. Prosecutors worked to cut him a break.” Jd. In
that article, the Miami Herald reported that investigators uncovered evidence that Epstein had
abused “over 100 middle school and high school aged girls,” but “despite ample physical
evidence and multiple witnesses corroborating the girls’ stories, federal prosecutors and
Epstein’s lawyers quietly put together a remarkable deal for Epstein.” Jd. Epstein agreed to
plead guilty to soliciting an underage prostitute “in state court, and in exchange, he and his
accomplices received immunity from federal sex-trafficking charges that could have sent him to
prison for life. Jd. More troubling still, Epstein’s case file was sealed — including a detailed
criminal complaint — so that “no one . . . could know the full scope of Epstein’s crimes and who
else was involved.” Jd.

The Miami Herald’s reporting has also had serious political ramifications. As the Miami
Herald has reported, “[t]he U.S. attorney in Miami, Alexander Acosta, was personally involved
in the negotiations” back in and around 2008. Jd. Ex. C. Acosta subsequently became “a
member of President Donald Trump’s cabinet” and currently serves as the Secretary of Labor.
Id. Since the Miami Herald published its expose, some members of Congress have demanded an
investigation into what led to the slap-on-the-wrist punishment for Jeffrey Epstein. See, e.g.,
Anthony Man, Florida Democrats want investigation into Trump cabinet member’s role in

handling Epstein case, SOUTH FLORIDA SUN SENTINEL (Dec. 4, 2018) available at

4811-3721-9459v.3 3930033-000039

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016494
