“Independent Directors of the Board of Directors of the General Partner shall be individuals who (a) are
not (i) a Principal, (ii) a family member of a Principal, (iii} an employee of a Principal or any entity
controlled by one or more of the Principals, and (b} meet the definition of “independent director’ set forth
in Rule 303A.02 of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual (as if the General Partner,
KUE and each of its Subsidiaries were the ‘listed company”) , including any such individuals appointed by
the investors who otherwise satisfy the requirements of this definition.

At the time of the final closing of this offering, the General Partner will have at least two Independent
Directors. After the Initial Listing and sc long as consistent with contractual, listing and licensing
obligations, a majority of the board of directors of the listed company will be Independent Directors.

14.7. Initial Listing; Initial Listing Process

“Initial Listing” means a listing on a recognized international securities exchange with a substantially
concurrent underwritten offering generating gross proceeds of U.S. $200 million or more. “Initial Listing’
refers to the Initial Listing of KUE or any successor or any subsidiary of KUE to which substantially all of
KUE's assets and liabilities have been transferred or are held.

The General Partner may take and cause KUE to take such actions as the General Partner reasonably
deems necessary to complete the Initial Listing on the recognized international securities exchange or
exchanges selected by the General Partner, including without limitation a restructuring or reorganization
or other transaction or asset transfer between or among KUE and any of its subsidiaries. If the Initial
Listing involves the listing of shares or other interests of a subsidiary of KUE, in the General Partner's
discretion, KUE may (i} retain some or all of KUE’s interest in such subsidiary not sold in connection with
the Initial Listing, (ii) distribute some or all of KUE’s interest in such subsidiary not sold in connection with
the Initial Listing to the Partners, (iii) offer Partners the opportunity to exchange their Common LP Units
and shares of the General Pariner for interests in such subsidiary, (iv) require Partners to exchange their
Common LP Units and shares of the General Partner for interests in such subsidiary, or (v) any
combination of the foregoing. Each Partner shall cooperate with the General Partner in connection with
the foregoing, including, without limitation, (i) by providing any necessary approvals from such Partner for
(a) any merger or consolidation of KUE or a subsidiary then permitted by law into an entity that is eligible
to effect such Initial Listing and has no other material business, assets or liabilities, or (b) a transfer of all,
substantially all or a portion of the assets and liabilities of KUE to one or more wholly-owned subsidiaries
eligible to effect the Initial Listing; (ii} by exchanging such Partner's Common LP Units and shares of the
General Partner for shares or other interests of the entity to be listed; (iii) by agreeing to customary “lock-
up” (on terms no more restrictive than KUE LLC or its affiliates or any other Common Limited Partner
which provides a “lock-up) and other agreements with underwriters; and (iv} by taking such other actions
as may be reasonably requested by the General Partner, provided that, in connection with such Initial
Listing, no Partner shall be required to contribute additional capital to KUE or the entity effecting the Initial
Listing. The economic interests of the Profits Participation Limited Partner shall not be reduced as a result
of any actions taken fo effect the Initial Listing.

14.8. Mandatory Conversion of Class B Ordinary Shares

The Class B Shares will automatically convert to Class A Shares if the Principals' aggregate economic
interest in KUE is less than 15% of the outstanding Partnership Units.

14.9. Distributions

Cash and other property may be distributed from KUE after payment of ordinary expenses and all
amounts currently due on KUE indebtedness, funding capital expenditures of subsidiaries and joint
venture, funding operating and other expenses of KUE, its subsidiaries and joint ventures and after the

119

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024552
