In the years after the First World War, until the end of the Second World War, three political models for shaping the future of
nation states emerged; Fascism, Communism and liberal democracy. These all offered great ideas for the future of the world.
Fascism and Communism shared some common features: authoritarian, strong leaders and a belief that their revolutions had
to be carried through with violence. This led to the mass murders in the Nazi concentration camps and 1n the Soviet Gulags.

In the mid war periods, the “Litfass columns” that were originally designed to carry advertising, became the outdoor galleries
for the war of ideologies. The political poster was born. High quality posters from every political party in Germany popped
up on the columns. Hitler’s propaganda chief Géebels stated that the Nazi election campaign should be run through speeches
and posters. The other parties responded in kind. An art form thus became an essential political tool in the battle for votes.
The propagandist Art used by the Nazis and communists alike was essential in helping sell their message to the masses.
Indeed, much of the art that was critical of these movements was suppressed or censored and “subversive” artists cowed, in
some cases imprisoned or even worse.

The liberal democratic model departed sharply from these authoritarian perspectives by presenting the alternative of free and
transparent elections, the rule of law and freedom of speech. In the mid-war period the three narratives were competing to be
the conceptual frame for society. After the Second World War fascism was crushed leaving the two competing ideologies of
communism and liberal democracy. After the demise of communism in 1989, through to the late 1990’s, liberal democracy
was victorious 1n the idealogical battlefield. Some historians, like Francis Fukuyama, went so far as to proclaim this period as
“the end of history”.

A key piece of art that championed this kind of ideology was Sheppard Fairey’s campaign poster for Barack Obama. In this
poster, Fairey, a well established graffiti artist uses urban colours and stencilling techniques combined with the message
“HOPE” to promote the incoming presidents positive values and popularity with the young. It 1s notable that Fairey’s most
recent political poster protests the Trump presidency rather than promote it.

With the rise of so called “illiberal democracy”, with strong parties standing for populist ideologies, we have now moved into
what can be described as the age of bewilderment. We were not in fact at the “end of history”. Once again the future looks
unpredictable and insecure and artists are responding in different ways.

Jeremy Deller, a British Turner prize winning artist created a work which features a car damaged in the bombing of the
historic Mutanabbi Street book market, which resulted in the deaths of 38 people. Here, an art work has been used to show the
aftermath of an event. This event was the result of the Iraq war, which was seen as a way to spread democracy. Here Art 1s
used as a means by which to explore the effects of ideology rather than promote it, another really interesting area in the study
of the intersections between ideology and art.

Exploring how art reflects the historical and ideological contexts of the world around it is fascinating to me and I would love
to study these ideas in more depth at undergraduate level.

please note
The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of
JEE
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited
and may be unlawful. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and
destroy this communication and all copies thereof,
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_033417
