unacknowledged conflict between this goal and another of the
authors’ recommendations—ratification of the Comprehensive Test
Ban Treaty. That treaty could lock us in to weapons designs that are
less safe and secure than others that might one day be developed, but
whose development might necessitate testing. (The current
administration’s ideological opposition to any innovation in the
design of our increasingly obsolete weapons—with the result that we
are not, for example, introducing technology to make them unusable,
should they fall into unauthorized hands—is overly rigid and
shortsighted. It is too bad that the authors of the statement didn’t
make this point.)

Shultz, Kissinger, et al. correctly urge that international measures be
taken to place control of the nuclear fuel cycle in safe hands. But
accomplishing this task is complicated by the legacy of the “Atoms
for Peace” concept dating back to the Eisenhower administration and
enshrined in the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT). Rich in
unintended consequences, Atoms for Peace promised that nations
pledging (1.e., merely pledging) not to acquire nuclear weapons
would be eligible to receive assistance with their civilian nuclear
programs from the advanced nuclear powers. The problem is that the
infrastructure supporting civilian nuclear power gets you well down
the road to nuclear weapons. In fact, from its inception, Atoms for
Peace has spread nuclear technology around the world. India’s
nuclear program, for example, grew from its cooperation with
Canada, which supplied the reactor that enabled India’s bomb.

The NPT has become the poster child for opposition to the spread of
nuclear weapons. Yet, ironically, faith in its capacity actually to
restrain the proliferation of nuclear weapons is at least misplaced—
and possibly much worse. For one thing, the belief that the NPT is
robust enough, and its institutions effective enough, can easily
become an excuse for individual nations to do no more than the treaty

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023495
