activation locked together in time are assumed to be functionally integrated. Another
time-dependent neuronal characteristic of current interest involve neurons or
neuronal clusters that beat with almost strict periodicity, the oscillatory pacemakers.
For example, the program of research by Professor Al Selverson at University of
California at San Diego, among others, has elucidated the role of these rhythmic
pattern generators, both autonomous and those emerging from particular patterns
of network connections. A wide variety of functional links involving neuronal
pacemakers has been demonstrated. They range from the oscillatory transport of
calcium through membrane channels in neurons and heart muscle, smooth muscle
oscillations of the pylorus muscle of the stomach, the neuronal ganglion driven
chewing motions of the jaws of invertebrates and the retina-to-brain hypothalamic
cells gating human circadian rhythms coupling our body’s hormonal clocks to light

cycles.

Though regular rhythmicity in neuronal discharges is an intuitively attractive
idea and relatively easy to quantitate using simple sine wave trigonometric
transformations, in the real brain it is statistically rare. The commonest neuronal
discharge pattern observed is that of intermittent bursting, clusters of neuronal
discharges in time in which the inter-discharge intervals irregularly stretch and
contract like the bellow pleats of a syncopated accordion. Bursts of repeated firing
of some unpredictable length followed by silences of equally mysterious durations.
Their behavior can be represented as statistical measures using non-normal, /ong
tailed distributions and in-between entropies described previously. For a whole
human example, although the rhythm of manic depression is commonly thought to
involve periodic cycles, careful study using motility patterns of the timing through life
of these episodes of extreme mood states by Professor Allan Gottschalk at the
University of Pennsylvania and others have demonstrated an irregularly intermittent
bursting pattern in manic-depressive episodes, getting more frequent with age.
Neuronal inter-discharge intervals seldom demonstrate what is called a regression
to the mean like the normal distribution of heights, as one increases the number of
people measured, the tighter the distribution around the mean. Neurons, much like

our own irregular pattern of doing things (in spite of our plans), the statistical

99

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013599
