High yield corporate bonds

Preference: overweight

Spread USD HY (24 Oct): 540bps (last month: 573bps)
UBS View USD HY spread target (6-month): 475bps

¢ We reiterate our spread target of 475bps based on still robust corporate fundamentals, a favorable
technical backdrop and the commitment of major central banks to provide strong monetary support. In
particular, the Fed's buying of mortgage-backed securities (MBS) is likely to provide further support for the
credit universe.

¢ Thus, US high yield (HY) bonds continue to offer attractive value although spreads tightened
considerably in Q3. We think the recent rally has been justified in light of the favorable default outlook
and central bank action. The ongoing slow recovery of the US economy, healthy company balance sheets,
robust earnings, and strong investor appetite for yield assets continue to push spreads lower. US HY thus
remains our preferred asset class.

¢ Despite the recent uptick in defaults, in the absence of a renewed US recession, we expect the default
rate to remain stable at 3.5% until the end of the year. A heavy load of new issuance so far this year means
that HY companies will be faced with a lower risk of failed refinancing going forward (e.g. in case of an
unexpected economic slump).

4 Positive scenario USD HY spread target (6-month): 400bps

e Even in the positive economic scenario, spreads are unlikely to tighten to pre-crisis lows of below 300bps
due to lower liquidity and a generally higher risk premium after the financial crisis. Benchmark yields
would rise, limiting HY returns to around 7%. European HY outperforms the US.

& Negative scenario USD HY spread target (6-month): 1,000bps
e A global recession is the major risk for high yield bonds. Based on the robust state of the corporate
sector, we would not expect spreads to surpass usual recession levels around 1,000bps. Although short-
term spikes are possible due to liquidity suddenly drying up, we expect a quick normalization.

Note: Scenarios refer to global economic scenarios (see slide 7)

What we're watching Why it matters
Credit quality/

default cycle

US earnings were roughly flat in 2Q compared to 1Q. A modest pickup is expected in 2H.
Balance sheets are backed by high cash levels and low debt ratios. Against this backdrop
the default rate will likely remain below its long-term average.

New issuance For now, favorable conditions in the primary market have mainly been used for
refinancing. More aggressive issuance activities should be monitored.

Bank lending standards

2 UBS

Bank lending provides an important source of funding. US banks relaxed standards
further in early 3Q. Key dates: late October, US Fed Senior Loan Officer Survey

For further information please contact CIO's asset class specialist Philipp Schdttler, philipp.schoettler@ubs.com

Recommendations

Tactical (6 months)

e US high yield corporate bonds offer an
attractive return outlook and should be
overweighted.

We prefer US over European issuers given
the increasing proportion of peripheral
and financial issuers in the European HY
universe and the poorer economic outlook
in Europe.

Inflows into HY mutual funds have been
strong so far in 2012. New issuance was
strong in Q3.

Strategic (1 to 2 years)

e We expect US defaults to remain at below-
average levels for longer. Significant re-
leveraging is unlikely in the medium term.

e We believe US high yield corporate bonds
will provide good returns both relative to
other fixed income and for absolute
return-oriented investors.

Yield spreads

2,500
bps

2,000
4,500
4,000
500
0
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
—EUR High Yield —USD High Yield
Source: Bloomberg, UBS, as of 16 Oct 2012

Note: Past performance is not an indication of future returns.

27

Please see important disclaimer and disclosures at the end of the document.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025274
