After Trump’s victory, Ailes seemed to balance regret that he had not seized the chance
to run his friend’s campaign with incredulity that Trump’s offer had turned out to be the
ultimate opportunity. Trump’s rise to power, Ailes understood, was the improbable
triumph of many things that Ailes and Fox News represented. After all, Ailes was perhaps
the person most responsible for unleashing the angry-man currents of Trump’s victory: he
had invented the right-wing media that delighted in the Trump character.

Ailes, who was a member of the close circle of friends and advisers Trump frequently
called, found himself hoping he would get more time with the new president once he and
Beth moved to Palm Beach; he knew Trump planned to make regular trips to Mar-a-Lago,
down the road from Ailes’s new home. Still, though Ailes was well aware that in politics,
winning changes everything—the winner is the winner—he couldn’t quite get his head
around the improbable and bizarre fact that his friend Donald Trump was now president of
the United States.

OOK Ok

At nine-thirty, three hours late, a good part of the dinner already eaten, Bannon finally
arrived. Wearing a disheveled blazer, his signature pairing of two shirts, and military
fatigues, the unshaven, overweight sixty-three-year-old joined the other guests at the table
and immediately took control of the conversation. Pushing a proffered glass of wine away

“T don’t drink’—he dived into a live commentary, an urgent download of information
about the world he was about to take over.

“We’re going to flood the zone so we have every cabinet member for the next seven
days through their confirmation hearings,” he said of the business-and-military 1950s-type
cabinet choices. “Tillerson is two days, Session is two days, Mattis is two days... .”

Bannon veered from “Mad Dog” Mattis—the retired four-star general whom Trump
had nominated as secretary of defense—to a long riff on torture, the surprising liberalism
of generals, and the stupidity of the civilian-military bureaucracy. Then it was on to the
looming appointment of Michael Flynn—a favorite Trump general who’d been the
opening act at many Trump rallies—as the National Security Advisor.

“He’s fine. He’s not Jim Mattis and he’s not John Kelly ... but he’s fine. He just needs
the right staff around him.” Still, Bannon averred: “When you take out all the never-
Trump guys who signed all those letters and all the neocons who got us in all these wars
... It’s not a deep bench.”

Bannon said he’d tried to push John Bolton, the famously hawkish diplomat, for the
job as National Security Advisor. Bolton was an Ailes favorite, too.

“He’s a bomb thrower,” said Ailes. “And a strange little fucker. But you need him.
Who else is good on Israel? Flynn is a little nutty on Iran. Tillerson”—the secretary of
state designate—“just knows oil.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019885
