Fittuy Ricw

me personally in that area. Soon after that I went to Epstein’s
home in Palm Beach on El Brillo Way.

_5. From the first time I was taken to Epstein’s mansion
that day, his motivations and actions were sexual, as were
Maxwell’s. My father was not allowed inside. I was brought
up some stairs. There was a naked guy, Epstein, on the table
in the room. Epstein and Maxwell forced me into sexual

CHAPT ER 34 activity with Epstein. I was 15 years old at the time. He
seemed to be in his 40s or 50s. I was paid $200. I was driven
home by one of Epstein’s employees.

6. I came back for several days following and did the

E same sorts of sexual things for Epstein.
erts Giuffre: January 19, 1 4 7. After I did those things for Epstein, he and Maxwell said
015 by attorneys :: 3 they were going to have me travel and were going to get an edu-
ia cation for me. They were promising me the world, that I would

’s victims by
g travel with Epstein on his private jet and have a well-paid pro-

. fession. Epstein said he would eventually match me up with a

fre and I was born in August, : : : wealthy person so that I would be “set up” for life.

a 8. So I started “working” exclusively for Epstein. He took

i old me to New York on his big, private jet. We went to his man-

+h, Florida. When I was little, I
be a veterinarian. But my life
then adults—including Jeffrey
Alan Dershowitz—began to be

sion in New York City. I was shown to my room, a very luxu-
rious room. The mansion was huge. I was very young and I
; got scared because it was so big. Epstein brought me to a
room with a massage parlor. Epstein made me engage [in]
sexual activities with him there.

me.
| when I was L5 years old, I met . F 9. You can see how young I looked in the photograph
1 daughter of Robert Maxwell, . q below [see insert page 3).

isher in Britain. Maxwell asked 10. Epstein took me on a ferry boat on one of the trips to

-y Epstein’s mansion for the pur- New York City and there he took the picture above. I was

verform “massages” and to train approximately 15 or 16 years old at the time.

135

134

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022102
