Attorneys Say Miami Prosecutors Violated Crime Victims’ Rights Act | Main Justice 4/7/11 1:38 PM

IEGOTIA
STRATEGIES

_» (FREE W ak

ITH THE DOU: FR) Mangustice
PTIMAL RESULTS BRACEWELL Lawyers with 4 |

= '- Wed., April 13 \ & GIULIANI DOJ Experience

About Got Tips? Login or Register Search ES (3 fT

THURSDAY, APRIL 07, 2011 [Emajjor sername pkaeens EI

ITICS, POLICY AND THE LAW
 jUsSTJOBS

iT ANTI-CORRUPTION

orneys Say Miami Prosecutors Violated Crime Victims’ Rights Act | Us. ATToRNEYs CHART (interactive)

tephanie Woodrow | March 22, 2011 11:52 am ; ,
= Printable Version
ise attorneys for two girls who contend they were assaulted by billionaire and . Rights/Reprints

cted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein filed court papers on Monday claiming the ck leadership changes in the 93 U.S. Attorney
uitens with Bush holdovers and Obama
candidates.

i U.S. Attorney's office violated the Crime Victims’ Rights Act by signing a nonprosecution agreement with Epstein

ut notifying them, the Palm Beach Daily News reported.

Epstein served 13 months in jail from June 2008 to July 2009 for one state count of soliciting
an underage girl for prostitution. As a result, he is required to register as a sex offender. While

he wasn’t prosecuted for additional charges, more than 40 girls under the age of 18 say they

came to his home and gave him massages. During the massages, they say, he masturbated Providing clients with proven
and sexually assaulted them. experience and innovative solutions
to complex compliance and
Brad Edwards and Paul Cassell, attorneys representing two of his alleged victims, say in enforcement issues inside the
the filing that the U.S. Attorney's office for the Southern District of Florida of deliberately Beltway and around the globe.
y Epstein (gov) misled the victims by telling them there was an ongoing investigation into their claims.

However, they say, the office was concealing the fact that they already had signed a
Miller & Chevalier Chartered
‘osecution deal with Epstein. millerchevalier.com

‘ding to the motion, the U.S. Attorney's office in January 2008 and May 2008 sent “false notification” letters in to

in’s alleged victims saying “(t)his case is currently under investigation.” However, the office had signed the agreement

COVINGTON

ittorneys want a court hearing during which they will ask that the agreement be invalidated because it violated the COVINGTON & BURLING LLP

=zpstein in September 2007.

is’ rights. In the motion, the attorneys claim the agreement is illegal because the government did not protect the
jressionally mandated rights of victims before it entered this agreement.” Recognized for its Leading

White Collar Crime and

dge grants the request, Epstein could be charged by the U.S. Attorney’s office. If he were charged and convicted on
al charges, he could be sentenced to 10 years to life for each charge. Anti-Corruption Practices by

Chambers and Legal 500

‘ding to the motion, “The only reason that the (U.S. Attorney's office) concealed the existence of the non-prosecution

:ment from the victims was not to comply with some legal restriction, but rather to avoid a firestorm of public

oversy that would have erupted if the sweetheart plea deal with a politically connected billionaire had been revealed.”

1 Valle, special counsel for the U.S. Attorney's Office Southern District of Florida, in an email to the newspaper that the

 ’ .  Decisi bout who, wh dh
Attorney’s office will respond in court filings. BORSLO TS AOE SIO, MAREE SE LORS

to prosecute have always been--and

ever, as we stated more than two years ago in July 2008 in our response to the plaintiffs’ then-emergency petition for must remain--the responsibility of the

cement of the Crime Victim Rights Act, the CVRA was not violated because no federal charges were ever filed in the CUEING RFENEN.” ~-Aiarnny Gamera

a ; , , a , , ; — Eric Holder discussing pressure from
tern District of Florida,” Valle said. “Because the matter remains pending in court, it would be inappropriate at this time
members of Congress to prosecute

wide additional comment on the merits of the current motion.” Khalid Sheikh Mohammed before a

ATEN Dnere. military commission rather than in

http://www. mainjustice.com/2011/03/22/attorneys-say-miami-prosecutors-violated-crime-victims’-rights—act/ Page 1 of 2

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013406
