Thief | 41

“paradise” in June 2012, shortly before his twenty-ninth birthday.
Just before leaving Annapolis for Hawaii, Mills posted a seminude
picture of herself on her blog, L’s Journey. In it, her face was cov-
ered with a blanket. The caption under it read, “Trying to avoid the
changes coming my way.” In Honolulu, she found “E.,” as she called
Snowden in her blog, “elusive.” She found that he preferred to stay
at home and avoided meeting other people to the point that her
friends “were not quite sure that E. existed.” Lindsay’s fellow per-
formers in the Waikiki Acrobatic Troupe told me in 2016 that they
rarely, if ever, saw Snowden at the practice sessions. Andrew Towl,
a juggler with the group, did briefly meet Snowden once. It was on
a hike with Lindsay in Oahu. Towl said he asked Snowden what he
was doing in Hawaii and Snowden answered tersely, “I work with
computers,” and continued walking. Even though Mills had dated
Snowden for eight years, most of her other friends, except for Jennie
and Joe Chamberlin in Japan, had not met him. Next door neigh-
bors I spoke to caught brief glimpses of him entering or leaving his
house but did not engage him in a conversation as Snowden tended

® to avoid eye contact. If he had other social interactions in Hawaii, no ©
one he met came forward and spoke of meeting him, even after he
became world famous.

Two days after his twenty-ninth birthday dinner on June 21, Mills
described him playfully as a “goof.” She wrote in her blog, “The
universe is telling me something and I’m pretty sure it’s saying get
out, Fuck you Hawaii.” In early July, she summed up her shaky situ-
ation with Snowden in another blog, writing, “I moved to Hawaii
to continue my relationship with E. [but] it has been an emotional
roller coaster since I stepped off the plane.” She diverted herself by
organizing a pole-dancing studio in the four-hundred-square-foot
garage of the house. She also found her own friends in physical fit-
ness and dance groups. She joined a New Age yoga studio called
Physical Phatness, as well as a local acrobatic performance group,
and, on Friday nights, pole danced at the Mercury lounge in down-
town Honolulu. Unlike Snowden, she enjoyed socializing, writing in
her blog, “We lovingly crammed a large group into a small corner
of a delicious Japanese restaurant and filled our bellies with sushi,
tempura, and good conversation.”

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 41 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019529
