ensure that foreign migrant workers are provided protection equal to nationals of the foreign
country.” This provision does not differentiate between legal and non-legal migrant workers, nor
does it distinguish between forced labor and non-coerced mi grant labor. DOJ believes that any
international standard that we promote must mirror our domestic standards. Similarly, the new
subsection (a)(i)(4) could be read as encouraging countries to loosen their immigration laws,
‘something that the United States Government might not be willing to do.

Subsection (b) amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. § 2151 ef seq) to
provide specific assistance for anti-trafficking investigation and prosecution units in foreign
countries. This subsection could be construed as prioritizing sex trafficking over labor
trafficking. As stated above, DOJ believes that any international standard that we promote musi
mitror our domestic standards, which prioritize both sex trafficking and labor trafficking.
Further, the amendment to 22 U.S.C. § 2152(d)(a)(2) should include a reference to labor
trafficking and should, therefore, read “including investigation of individuals and entities that
may be involved in trafficking in persons involving sexual exploitation or forced labor.”

3. Section 104

The Department objects to the language in this section that specifies the groups with
which the United States Government must consult and coordinate in offering assistance and
protection to victims of human trafficking. Such language both places undue restrictions on the
United States Government and could limit the Government’s ability to deal with some necessary
groups. It has been the consistent practice of the Department to consult widely with a range of
stake holders and others before designing a program of foreign assistance on human trafficking,
Such an additional requirement in the statutory language is unnecessary. We suggest that the
language be amended to read, “[i]n cooperation and coordination with organizations which may
include the [UNHCR], the International Organization [for] Migration, and other relevant
organizations....”

4, Section 105

DOJ recommends that subsection (a) also require that the effectiveness of assistance
programs be measured based on best efforts to facilitate cooperation with law enforcement, along
with the other criteria.

5, Section 106

DOJ opposes the bar in subsection (b)(1) against including cases in which probation or
low sentences are given. Some of the most important cases are the ones against cooperating
defendants that result in minimal sentences in exchange for information or testimony. Embassies
Should have the discretion to take such situations into account when evaluating foreign
government efforts to combat trafficking. The Department recommends amending section
(b)(1)(B) by striking “shall not be considered to be an” and inserting in its place “shall be
considered on a case by case basis to determine if it will be considered an” so that it will give the tL
Secretary of State greater flexibility in evaluating the efforts of other countries. 7

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012373
