294 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

different feel to them. My question is this. Is there more to face-to-face
communication between human beings than the simple exchange of
symbolic information?

Let us propose an experiment. I erect a 3D screen with a hi-fi
surround sound system in a university lecture hall and deliver a lecture
to a camera in the adjacent hall. Half the students see the lecture directly,
and half remotely. With modern screens, it might be possible to set up
the experiment so well that is difficult to tell which hall I am actually in.
Is the experience of the remote students the same as the ones sitting in
direct proximity with me? Do mirror neurons fire more strongly and
pick up more information when you see me in the flesh, or is the feeling
that a lecture is better when you are ‘physically there’ an illusion? You are
perhaps less likely to fall asleep in my lecture if you are physically there
because you are afraid I might walk over and hit you! What possible non-
classical effects could be in play when you see an event or communicate
in person that might make the communication different? Here are two
potential differences:

Information in a face-to-face encounter is continuous, not digitized.
Continuous information is infinite in nature and does not have the finite
limitation of digitized data. Of course, if we have digitized the sound
at 24 bits and replayed it with extreme fidelity, there should not be any
loss in information, but the interactivity of the soundscape is hard to
simulate.

Light entering your eye contains information that could be quantum
entangled with the object you are viewing. You become part of the system
rather than merely an independent observer. It is difficult to see why this
would produce a different quality of communication but it is testable.
Set up the lecture experiment and measure the quality of understanding
communicated between the parties.

If we believe our brains are super-Turing, then considering there
might be some similar effects involved in human communication is not
unreasonable, perhaps quantum effects play a role in communication. If
we conclude our brains think classically, then we probably communicate
classically.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015984
