half of this international order—namely the complex web of multilateral institutions which
operate under international treaty law and which seek to govern the global commons on the
basis of the principle of shared sovereignty. As for “global governance”, it tends to refer to
the actual performance, for good or for ill, be it effective or ineffective, of the “international
system” so defined.

It is deeply significant that at the 2018 Work Conference, Xi Jinping states boldly that a core
component of his new ideology of a “diplomacy of socialism with Chinese characteristics”
would be for China to: “lead the reform of the global governance system with the concepts of
fairness and justice.” This is by far the most direct, unqualified and expansive statement on
China’s intentions on this important question we have seen.

China, like the rest of the international community, is acutely conscious of the dysfunctionality
of much of the current multilateral system. It also sees the US walking away from much of
the system as well: from the JCPOA which was agreed to by the UN Security Council; from
the UN’s Paris Agreement on Climate Change; its withdrawal from the UN Human Rights
Commission; its open defiance of the Refugees Convention; and its challenging of the
underlying fabric of the WTO.

Nature, as we know, abhors a vacuum. International relations even more so. And we all saw
Xi Jinping’s riposte to President Trump on climate change and trade at Davos 18 months ago
just after President Trump’s election. If China is indeed serious about leading the reform of
global governance, its attitude to various of these multilateral institutions will be radically
different to the historical posture of the US. Take for example the Human Rights Council in
Geneva, which China would like to see emasculated. Mind you, so too now, apparently, does
the current US administration!

The reference to “China leading the reform of global governance” in this conference is not an
accident. It also reflects a growing Chinese diplomatic activism in a number of UN and Bretton
Woods institutions around the world as China begins to seek to recast these institutions, their
cultures, their work practices and their personnel in a direction more compatible with China’s
core national interests. As I have written before, rather than China having to consistently
resist the pressures of “Westernisation” inherent in the existing laws, institutions and culture
of the current international system, particularly when these prove to be incompatible with the
retention of a Marxist-Leninist Chinese state, the resolve of China’s leadership now seems to
be to use its newfound global power to refashion those institutions within the international
system that may be most problematic for China on the home front.

As for the principles of fairness and justice that Xi refers to as the core principles that will
guide China’s reform of global governance, these terms historically imply China’s preference
for a more “multipolar” international system in which the unilateral voice of the United States
is reduced. China has already developed a strong constituency in Africa, parts of Asia and
Latin America in support of this. ‘Multipolarity’ in Chinese strategic parlance is code for the
dilution of American power in the post-war international system.

8 of 10

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026863
