U.S. Department of Justice

United States Attorney
Southern District of Florida

First Assistant U.S. Attorney 7 99 N.E. 4 Street
Miami, FL 33132
(305) 961-9100

DELIVERY BY FACSIMILE May 19, 2008
Jay P. Lefkowitz, Esq.

Kirkland & Ellis LLP

Citigroup Center

153 East 53rd Street

New York, New York 10022-4675

Re: Jeffrey Epstein
Dear Mr. Lefkowitz,

I am in receipt of your e-mail dated May 19, 2008 to the United States Attorney. The U.S.
Attomey would like me to advise you that all communications and inquiries related to the Epstein
matter, will be handled by AUSA Marie Villafana and/or her supervisor, Karen Atkinson, so he does
not intend to respond to your e-mail or calls unless AUSA Villafana and/or her supetvisors advise
him otherwise. Furthermore, you make reference to “our July 8 deadline.” Respectfully, the United

_ States.Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Florida (“SDFL”) has never agreed to any such

deadline. Should you decide to provide the SDFL with any additional information, please do so
through AUSA Villafana, and, in her absence, AUSA Atkinson.

On September 24, 2007, your client, Jeffrey Epstein, in consultation with Gerald Lefcourt,
Esq. and Lilly Ann Sanchez, Esq., as well as numerous other nationally-renowned lawyers, including
but not limited to Harvard Law Professor Alan Dershowitz, former Independent Counsel and
Solicitor General of the United States Kenneth Starr, just to name a few, entered into a global
resolution of state and federal liabilities faced by your client (“the Agreement”) with the SDFL.
Although you and other members of the défense team have since claimed that the Agreement was
the product of adhesion, the following facts demonstrate that Epstein knowingly and voluntarily
entered into the Agreement in order to avoid a federal indictment regarding his sexual conduct
involving minor victims. Despite the fact that by signing the Agreement, Epstein gave up the right
to object to its provisions, the SDFL bent over backwards to exhaustively consider and re-consider
your objections. Since these objections have finally been exhausted and Epstein has previously
expressed his intent to not comply with several of the terms and conditions of the Agreement as set
forth below, the SDFL hereby notifies you that unless he complies with all of the terms and
conditions of the Agreement, as modified by the United States Attorney’s December 19, 2007 letter
to Ms. Sanchez by close of business on Monday, June 2, 2008, the SDFL will elect to terminate the
Agreement.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012198
