With your acquiesence , Eileen did not report to Delson ( he acting as a conduit directly to me) , she
continued to provide bad info to both you ( cash flows , stock accts, structures. sales Etc) and me. and each
time with my many annoying calls to you made immediately afterwards that she was g.....y !! No one was
hired to run YOUR office until two months ago , no one was even interviewed and even now , Brad, a very
nice man, is not even full time,(crazy ) Hours upon hours of time need to be spent training him . and his new
staff. Eileen followed your instructions. not mine. in fact she continued to ignore mine saying  but Leon
said or its on Leon's desk etc, You would become frustrated when i pointed out each instance. of her
obfuscation. originally you were given the clear choice, but to save money ,you chose not to hire my team . I
was hired to do the architecture, you kept your own team. with Eileen at the head. instructions were given by
me, , detailed but ignored by her. ( except in the instances where I inserted myself and personally had to do the
weeks of grunt work ),ex. jpm morgan acct still not in use? That being said, If you do the cold calculation
starting from where you were, to where you are currently . youhave madea hell ofa deal. -- negotiating
down my original amount requested , calling upon our friendship and suggesting that the Carlyn mess was
partially my fault. (though in that specific example , I had never been asked to do more than merely provide
you the name of the most highly recognized atty in the field, not consulted,nor even asked again for my
guidance along the way. ). I accepted the discount as your friend. (by the way ,,suggesting now, that your
Tom is now that last word on tax characterization, frankly is a bit much,-). however - that is all in the past.

In order to move forward

I would ask that you realize that very unlike yours, My business is only comprised of my personal attention
and my personal time . Time that I was forced to grossly overspend on your various issues last year. . As you
are my very close friend I will not have you participate in a bidding process that I have decided i will
have this year for my time . (hopefully a more fair way to allocate ) I would also ask that you keep in mind
that though our deal expired months ago. (also keeping in mind , that your understanding of the final
payment terms neither reflected the emails or my memory, we finished it up your way. ) I have answered every
call Brad , joslin, Ada or you, have made . reviewed docs over and over/ until once again, I was
forced to insert myself strongly as I thought it dangerous not to. I made serious dollar and time concessions
last year.very serious I am wiling to continue to accommodate some of your concerns , but Iam, under no
circumstances , none, willing to spend my time for free. its not fair. After cleaning up Carlyn's mess , which
was a few weeks and 30 million dollars . We were both highly aware of the dire circumstances in which you
found yourself last year, and in fact due predominately to its seriousness. and those very circumstances I took
extra care in our negotiations . (you had claimed I had you over a barrel , ( a horrible position to be in with my
very close friend.), unfortunately I fear that if you are not cautious ,in the near future, another barrel will appear
of your own design )

I heard you when you said you believed i had already been paid for the work that is now required. The art
partnership has fully answered all your concerns and discharged all my obligations and more so. . (
FYI Carlyns art partnership that you referenced is similar in only its title. ) You will also recall that you
required that my payments be at the end of my work not at the beginning as everyone else's .( my work was
never to include hours upon hours of training your staff). I eventually agreed, this of course should
make clear that the 2014 tax year that will close Oct 2015 is not covered by our past agreement at all. I
pointed this very fact out to you when I initially proposed a multi year agreement right out of the box. you said
you preferred not. As you said ,I have produced results to date, far in excess of even my own exalted opinion
of my projections. I have devoted a monumental amount of my limited amount of time-- way, way in excess of
our agreement. I will be fair, I am willing to roll in the amount still outstanding from last year if that helps ..
However, As my best student , and my only one, you are now capable of doing most, if not all, of the
required work yourself. I can put my whiteboard away when you come to eat and just have fun, trade stories,.
share moments ideas etc.. Iam of course always available to guide you as a friend if you choose that route .
always . It will take a great deal of your time , but you will not have to spend any more money on mine .

We are scheduled to meet fri at 430 , I leave at 5 am sat morning.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023293
