* Research on each of the 13 episodes is ongoing and we are moving towards creating a short list of the top
contributors per episode (with some contributors in multiple episodes).

* We are aggregating the top contributors around 4 to 5 central locations, such as SF Bay Area, LA, Chicago,
Boston, New York, Santa Fe, London, Oxford, and Cambridge for the main shoots.

* We are creating a short list of locations for the secondary shoot - i.e. the more observational shoots on
specific labs and research facilities, such as the Music Lab at McGill, the Sleep Lab at Harvard.

* We are planning a recce in the autumn to assess locations and meet some of the key contributors.

* We've brought on a production manager / line producer as we develop detailed research, contributors,
locations, budgets.

* Our team is working toward interviewing and hiring a top science-literate associate producer / dedicated
research producer. We’ve been coordinating with colleagues at HHMI (Howard Hughes Medical Association)
as well as National Geographic for staffing referrals, and now have a strong short list. This is a critical, long-
term position.

* We are assessing graphics and animation companies and researching styles and graphic ideas that we might
use to communicate some of the more complex ideas.

* Our digital team is researching a web extension for the www.closertotruth.com website, developing ideas for
a dedicated site neighborhood for Radical Breakthroughs. We are in discussions with several website

design companies, including the company that designed and built our original CTT site, for ideas and bids on
creating the expanded site.

* By mid-October, we expect to begin to schedule the shoots.

please note
The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of
JEE
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited
and may be unlawful. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by

return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029296
