54030

Federal Register/Vol. 76, No. 168/Tuesday, August 30, 2011/Rules and Regulations

example, they ask whether an employer
that occasionally uses text messaging or
Twitter to communicate with employees
would have to use those technologies
and, if so, how they would be able to
comply with the rule, in view of the
length restrictions of these media. The
U.S. Chamber of Commerce raises the
same issue regarding faxing, voice mail,
and instant messaging. The National
Roofing Contractors Association notes
that some employers use email to
communicate with certain employees,
while other employees have no access to
email during their work day. As to email
communication itself, an individual
observes that many employees change
jobs every 3 to 4 years, and an email
reaches only those in the workforce at

a specific time. The same comment
notes that the proposed rule does not
state when or how often email notice
should be provided. Three Georgetown
law students recommend that the rule
mandate email as well as intranet notice
to employees when it goes into effect
and written notice to new employees
within a week of their starting
employment.

The Board responds that, as discussed
above regarding the location of posting,
“customarily” is used in its normal
meaning. This provision of the rule
would not apply to an employer that
only occasionally uses electronic means
to communicate with employees.
However, in view of the numerous
comments expressing concern over the
proposed rule’s email posting
requirements, the Board has decided not
to require employers to provide the
notice to employees by means of email
and the other forms of electronic
communication listed in the previous
paragraph. In the Board’s judgment, the
potential for confusion and the prospect
of requiring repeated notifications in
order to reach new employees outweigh
the benefits that could be derived at the
margin from such notifications. All
employers subject to the rule will be
required to post the notice physically in
their facilities; and employers who
customarily post notices to employees
regarding personnel rules or policies on
an internet or intranet site will be
required to post the Board’s notice on
those sites as well. Moreover, those
notices (unlike the Board’s election and
remedial notices) must remain posted;
thus, it is reasonable to expect that even
though some employees may not see the
notices immediately, more and more
will see them and learn about their
NLRA rights as time goes by.
Accordingly, the only electronic

Mount Sterling, Kentucky Chamber of Commerce;
U.S. Xpress, Inc.

postings required under the final rule
will be those on internet or intranet
sites.

Many comments address the
characteristics of electronic posting, as
prescribed in § 104.202(f). In the NPRM,
the Board proposed not to prescribe the
size, clarity, location, or brightness of an
electronic notice or link to the notice,
but rather require that it be at least as
prominent as other electronic notices to
employees, as the Department of Labor’s
rule requires. No comments suggest
more specific requirements; the
Michigan Health & Hospital Association
argues that such requirements would
result in inadvertent noncompliance.
The Board has decided to adopt the
Department of Labor’s approach, as
proposed in the NPRM.

Baker & McKenzie urges that the title
of the link in the proposed rule be
changed to ‘Employee Rights under the
National Labor Relations Act” rather
than “Important Notice about
Employees Rights to Organize and
Bargain Collectively with Their
Employers.’ The Board agrees and has
revised the rule accordingly.

A comment from Vigilant states that
a link to the Board’s Web site, which is
one means of electronic posting, should
not be required to include the
introductory language of the notice. The
Board agrees, noting that the
Department of Labor takes this
approach, and will not require that
electronic links to the Board’s Web site
include the introductory language.

For the foregoing reasons, the Board
has decided to retain the posting
requirements as proposed in the NPRM,
modified as indicated above.

e. Compliance With the Department of
Labor’s Rule

Several comments opposing the
proposed rule urge that, if the rule
becomes final, the Board should retain
the “safe harbor’ provided for Federal
contractors that comply with the
Department of Labor’s notice posting
rule.134 However, the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce states that some employers
post the Department of Labor’s notice at
facilities where it is not required or
where Federal contract work is
performed only sporadically. It
questions whether such employers must
replace the Department of Labor’s notice
with the Board’s when no contract work
is being performed, or whether they can
comply with the Board’s rule by leaving
the Department of Labor’s notice in
place. The Chamber proposes that

134 See, e.g., comments of IFDA; Estes; The Sack
Company; National Roofing Contractors
Association.

employers be allowed to choose to
maintain the Department of Labor’s
notice, although another comment
asserts that employees might think that
the notice is no longer applicable
because of the lack of a current contract.
Another comment raises the possibility
that either the Board or the Department
of Labor could decide to change its
notice and emphasized that they need to
be identical in order to provide the safe
harbor. The Board responds that a
Federal contractor that complies with
the Department of Labor’s notice-
posting rule will be deemed in
compliance with the Board’s
requirement.135

3. Exceptions

The rule applies only to employers
that are subject to the NLRA. Under
NLRA Section 2(2), “employer”
excludes the United States government,
any wholly owned government
corporation, any Federal Reserve Bank,
any State or political subdivision, and
any person subject to the Railway Labor
Act, 45 U.S.C. 151 et seg. 29 U.S.C.
152(2). Thus, under the proposed rule,
those excluded entities are not required
to post the notice of employee rights.
The proposed rule also does not apply
to entities that employ only individuals
who are not considered “employees”’
under the NLRA. See Subpart A, below;
29 U.S.C. 152(3). Finally, the proposed
rule does not apply to entities over
which the Board has been found not to
have jurisdiction, or over which the
Board has chosen through regulation or
adjudication not to assert
jurisdiction.13® The Board proposed that
all employers covered under the NLRA
would be subject to the notice posting
tule. 75 FR 80413.

The Coalition for a Democratic
Workplace argues that the final rule
cannot be applied to religiously-
affiliated employers. The Coalition
argues that assertion of jurisdiction
would “substantially burden [such
employers’] exercise of religion in
violation of both the First Amendment
and the Religious Freedom Restoration
Act.” Similarly, Seyfarth Shaw contends
that religiously-affiliated healthcare

135 A few comments ask whether the Board’s rule
would preempt the Department of Labor’s rule.
Because the answer to that question would not
affect the validity of the Board’s rule, the Board
finds it unnecessary to take a position on that issue
in this proceeding.

136 The proposed rule excludes small businesses
whose impact on interstate commerce is de minimis
or so slight that they do not meet the Board’s
discretionary jurisdiction requirements. See
generally An Outline of Law and Procedure in
Representation Cases, Chapter 1, found on the
Board’s Web site, http://www.nirb.gov, and cases
cited therein.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022301
