68

Such a fascination with the power of government-held secrets has always been a core concern of
radical libertarians. In his 1956 book The Torment of Secrecy: The Background and
Consequences of American Security Policies, the sociologist Edward Shils brilliantly dissects the
fascination with secrecy among individuals on all ends of the political spectrum who fear that
government agencies will use covert machinations against them. In Shils’ concept, this anti-
government counter-culture is “tormented” by the government’s possession of knowledge
unavailable to them. Those who subscribe to this culture tend to believe that the agencies that
hold these secrets, such as the FBI, CIA and NSA, can control their lives. The other side of this
torment over others holding secrets is the belief that by obtaining such secrets will give individuals
power over government.

Snowden himself was concerned with a coming “dark future,” which he later described as
follows: “[The elites] know everything about us and we know nothing about them — because they
are secret, they are privileged, and they are a separate class... the elite class, the political class,
the resource class — we don’t know where they live, we don’t know what they do, we don’t know
who their friends are. They have the ability to know all that about us. This is the direction of the
future but I think there are changing possibilities in this.”

To change the “dark future,” someone would have to know the secrets of the “elites.”

Snowden saw himself as one of the few individuals in a position to seize state secrets from those
elites. He had both a SCI, or Sensitive Compartmental Information, clearance, a pass into a NSA
regional base and the privileges of a system administrator. This position allowed him to steal state
secrets—and whatever power that went with them. And if he moved to a position that gave him
greater access, he would, in this view, amass even greater power.

Whatever his actual agenda in 2012, we know that he tested possible reactions to a leak
exposing NSA surveillance in the United States. He asked fellow workers at the NSA base in
2012, according to his own account: “What do you think the public would do if this [secret data]
was on the front page?” He asked this question at a time when a large number of State
Department and US Army classified documents had been posted on Julian Assange’s Wikileaks
website. While these Wikileaks revelations of secrets were making front-page headlines, the NSA
documents that Snowden had taken were far more explosive since they contained NSA
intelligence secrets. And no NSA document had ever been published in the press in 2012. One
reason why NSA documents remained secrets, as all intelligence workers at Dell were told when
they signed their oath, was that the unauthorized release of communications intelligence
documents could violate US espionage laws.

Even so, there was no shortage of activists overseas, such as Assange, who would be willing
to publish NSA documents revealing its global surveillance activities. And in answer to his
rhetorical question, he no doubt knew that they would cause an immense reaction on the front
page. Cyber punks, as these activists called themselves, tended to be hostile to the NSA since they
believed (correctly) that it monitored their activities on the Internet. This anti- NSA view was well

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020220
