4.2.12
WC: 191694

chances.” That was the last I heard, until a few years later when Dean Griswold informed me that
the chairman of the overseers subcommittee being asked to review and approve the faculty
decision recommending me for tenure, was an active member of “the Club.” I was ready for a
fight. But there was no fight. I was approved, the dean later told me, by a unanimous vote.

Several years after I began teaching, I was invited to deliver a distinguished named lectureship at
a major university. Following my talk, there was a dinner in my honor at the local university club.
When I got to the club, there were several women standing outside picketing because it was a
men’s only club. I refused to cross the picket line and the dinner had to be moved to a different
venue, over the strong objections of the Chief Justice of the State, who was one of the sponsors
to the dinner. I had a similar experience in Columbus, Ohio, after I argued an important case on
behalf of a local law firm. They invited my female associate and me to have dinner with them at
the local university club. When we got there, they asked my associate if she wouldn’t mind
walking in through the side door since the main entrance was for men only. Since she was a
young associate, she reluctantly agreed, but I refused to let her demean herself. We had lunch at
the local McDonald’s. Several years later, I was invited to Australia to give a series of lectures,
and the Harvard Club of Sydney asked me to give a luncheon talk to Harvard alumni. I agreed.
When I mentioned to a friend that I was going to be speaking at the Australia Club, he advised me
that it was closed to Jews, women, and Blacks. I gave the Harvard Club two options: I would
keep my commitment and make my speech, but I would speak about why it was wrong for
Harvard to hold events at segregated clubs; or they could move the speech and I would give a talk
about life at Harvard. They chose the second alternative. When I returned to Harvard, I wrote to
the dean and a memo was circulated mandating that henceforth no Harvard professors, speaking
on behalf of Harvard, should appear in a segregated venue. When a Jewish country club in
Boston asked me to talk, I told them about my policy and declined the invitation. They explained
that the club had been established in reaction to the unwillingness of other country clubs in the
area to accept Jewish members. I told them that I did not think this justified further
discrimination. A few days later, the membership chairman called and told me that, in fact, the
club had six non-Jewish members and that it was open to accepting more. I made the speech. A
young member approached me following my speech and told me I had been conned, “Sure, we
have six non-Jewish members, but they’re all sons-in-law of Jewish members.” I have never
spoken at that club again.

When I joined the faculty, it was quite small—perhaps two dozen full time professors. (Today
there are more than 100, with a student body that hasn’t increased in size.) The entire faculty
would meet for lunch every day in a small dining room around a large table presided over by the
dean, and in his absence by a senior faculty member. The discussions would revolve around legal
issues. The criteria for judging an argument and its maker was its “soundness.” That word still
rings in my ear, like my grandmother’s “meturnished.” All faculty nominees had to have “sound”
judgment. Their writing had to be “sound,” rather than creative, speculative, quirky or
provocative. I was concerned because my views were anything but “sound”—as least as judged
by some of the more traditional faculty members.

Recently, I told one of my long-time colleagues that when I was choosing between teaching at

Harvard and Yale Law Schools, my Yale Law School teacher, mentor and friend, Professor Alex
Bickel, who had been turned down for a professorship at Harvard because his views of

78

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017165
