The next two weeks I was expected to be at Charlie’s beckon call, never
aloud to leave his side, even making me sleep in his bed from the second
night onwards. J never even got the chance to call T.J again. It was too
much of a risk anyways. Thus pushing him further out of my memory,
too afraid, of the emotional repercussions.

Our typical routine was to wake up get showered and dressed and I
would put on my make-up while Charlie made his business calls for the
day. We would leave the house mid-afternoon and run his errands do
some shopping, sometimes meeting his friends or business partners for
lunch, none of the men he introduced me to seemed offended at his
choice of adolescent eye candy. They'd just continue to chat away as if it
was normal to be in public with his arms draped over a girl young enough
to be his granddaughter, not too shy by giving me a flirty tap on my
bottom or even try to kiss me.

My last night was no different from every other night. We went
shopping that day and out for lunch alone. Later we headed to a club his
friend just launched and it was his grand opening that night. The club was
called “Iguana Joe’s”. We met up with his friend and said our hellos.
They both seemed so excited about the club and Charlie was full of
compliments all around. The club did have a line out the door which
looked a mile long coming in, luckily we didn’t have to use the front
door. Charlie returned from the bar with two giant long-island iced teas,
which were his favorite drink to start with and then we just sat for a while
watching people dancing. Occasionally conversing about passing
thoughts. We danced for a while having a few more drinks and after
about two hours, Charlie said he was ready to go home. What a daunting
time to look forward to, he always liked to have a brief sexual encounter
before drifting off to sleep with my naked body intertwined between his
arms and legs.

It was bad enough to have to entertain him at every given second of the
day but his grip on me was so stifling | felt so chocked I could hardly
breathe much less sleep. Eventually my over-worked mind would drift in-
and-out of a restless sleep, but constantly on edge. I thought many of
nights of escaping, but where would I go? Would one of Ron’s ever-so-
connected informants finds me and turns me into him to be disposed of
for good? I just prayed that I wouldn’t be another missing person to add
to the list of girls found in the local ditches. I knew that’s where I was
headed if I screwed this up for Ron again.

As if my guardian angel was there the whole time listening to my
secret prayers, my rescue came the next morning with an abrupt bursting
through the bedroom door at about six am. Charlie and I were still lying
in bed together and his grip on me was still tight. The men dressed in all
black military gear had large guns and helmets on. It was so frightening

15

] Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004148

at first. | couldn’t even comprehend what was happening so rapidly. 1
thought Charlie could’ve been in some kind of trouble with a business
friend he had done wrong too, but then one of the men in black shouted
“FBI this is a raid get down with your hands on you head’, in too much
shock to move three of the men grabbed Charlie and threw him to the
floor and cuffed him. I sat up in bed with my sheets covering my naked
body and watched as they dragged Charlie from the room. Still
completely nude he wasn’t even aloud to get dressed. Another agent had
to come back in to the room to find him a pair of shorts. | could hear him
screaming at the top of his lungs all of the way outside He was screaming
and the last thing I heard him yell was “If you say anything you know
who will find you!” I could hear more threats being yelled at me but I
couldn’t make out what it was that he was saying. | was in total confusion
and couldn’t believe what was happening. There were so many uniformed
agents I felt so small compared to all of them but they were all very kind
and helped me out of bed allowing me to remain covered up with the bed
sheets so I could get dressed. The first decency | had been showed in a
long time. It was an odd feeling to acknowledge. I knew the life I had
come accustomed to for the last six months was now over, and in so
many ways I was relieved but was also very nervous about what lay
ahead of me.

I excused myself to the bathroom to put some clothes on. Not having
anything half decent, like a normal pair of jeans and a t-shirt. The best |
could come up with was a metallic blue miniskirt and a tiny matching top
that fell just below my breasts, hardly clothing at all it was more like
scraps of cloth. Putting my hair up in a tight bun with the scrunchie that
held my five hundred dollar bills I was led out of Charlie’s townhouse for
the very last time. Starting my life over...again, | wanted to leave behind
my every memory belonging to these horrid times. Only taking small
sack containing my underwear, makeup bag, and journal with me.

The agents led me down the staircase and my last vision’s of Charlie
was bent over the hood of a police vehicle still screaming and
handcuffed. I-slipped into the backseat of the car and was driven to
Broward County Police Station where the Federal Agents interviewed me
about my entire whereabouts for the last six months. I was so scared of
what Ron would do if I told the agents what really happened but at the
same token I knew he’d most likely kill me anyways for being such a
liability.

Over the next few hours I sat down and told the agents how Ron’s
business worked and what I part I had to play to him. 1 was able to ask
how they found out | was at Charlie’s house and they informed me that I
was being followed all the way from Ocala, Florida where Ron had me
stowed away for the last four months. T.J, my friend, called my parents

16

£1 Copyright Protected Material

GIUFFREOO4 149

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021152
