of the temptation, but more costly if the temptation is high. Thus, if the temptation is
low, player 1 gets a > 0 if she cooperates and q > a if she defects. If the temptation is
high, she gets a if she cooperates and cp, > c if she defects. We assume that cooperation
benefits the other player, which we refer to as player 2. We assume, for simplicity, that
player 2 gets 6 > 0 if 1 cooperates and d < 0 if 1 defects, and that these payoffs to player 2
are the same regardless of 1’s temptation. For now, we also assume that d < p/(1 —p)-;
that is, defection is sufficiently harmful to player 2 that player 2 prefers to avoid the
interaction if player 1 only cooperates some of the time. Finally, we model player 2’s
trust in player 1. We model this by giving player 2 the choice of whether to continue
the interaction with player 1. If player 2 continues the interaction, then with probability
w, all previous steps are repeated, potentially indefinitely. That is, the temptation to
defect is randomly chosen again, player 1 chooses whether to look at it, and so on. With
probability 1 — w, the game ends. The parameter w can be interpreted as the likelihood
of a future interaction or the player’s discounting of future payoffs. Crucially, we assume
that player 2 observes both of player 1’s choices: not only whether 1 cooperated, but
also whether 1 first looked. Our model, therefore, applies to situations where player 1’s
looking is somewhat observable, for example, if player 1 can gain additional information
about the costs of defection by asking player 2 questions, or if player 1 can take time to
ponder the decision and player 2 can observe player 1’s reaction time. We assume that
players maximize their expected payoffs. Note that since we assumed a > 0 and 6 > 0,
both players benefit from a cooperative interaction.

In the envelope game, a strategy for player 1 dictates whether she will look and whether
she will cooperate, as a function of whether she has looked and cooperated in the past,
and as a function of the temptation if she has just looked. For example, one relatively

simple strategy for player 1 is to look and cooperate whenever the temptation is low.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026524
