James PATTERSON

11. Over the next few weeks, Jeffrey Epstein and Ghis-
laine Maxwell trained me to do what they wanted, including
sexual activities. The training was in New York and Florida,
at Epstein’s mansion. It was basically every day and it was
like going to school. I also had to have sex with Epstein many
times.

12. I was trained to be “everything a man wanted me to
be.” It wasn't just sexual training—they wanted me to be
able to cater to all the needs of the men they were going to
send me to. They said that they loved that I was very compli-
ant and knew how to keep my mouth shut about what they
expected me to do.

13. Epstein and Maxwell also told me that they wanted
me to produce information for them in addition to perform-
ing sex on the men. They told me to pay attention to the
details about what the men wanted, so I could report back to
them.

14. While I had juvenile hopes of bettering my life, from
very early on I was also afraid of Epstein. Epstein told me he
was a billionaire. I told my mother that I was working for

this rich guy, and she said “go, go far away.” Epstein had
promised me a lot, and I knew if I left I would be in big trou-
ble. I was witness to a lot of illegal and bad behavior by
Epstein and his friends. If I left Epstein, he knew all kinds of
powerful people. He could have had me killed or abducted,
and I knew he was capable of that if I did not obey him. He
let me know that he knew many people in high places. Speak-
ing about himself, he said “I can get away” with things. Even
as a teenager, I understood what this meant and it scared me,

as I believe he intended.

136

Fictr

15. I visited and traveled
through the summer of 2002
with him for sexual activities
sions) in locations including
area of Santa Fe, New Mex
island in the US. Virgin Islan,
with him often in these places
ple he demanded that I have
many of these sexual encounte
my only purposes for Epsteir

was to be used for sex.

16. To illustrate my conne:
Jour photographs taken of me in
for one of the photographs m
museum in Santa Fe, New Mexi,
the day. Epstein took this picture
at the time, judging from the lox
we returned to Epstein’s Zorro R,
on one of Epstein’s horses on th

following two are from wintertin

17, When I was with him, F;
girls on a daily basis. His inte
obvious to the people around
obvious and bold that anyone S|
at one of Epstein’s residences we
of what was going on.

18. Epstein’s code word for s¢
Was a “massage.” At times the |
and the girls would start in thet
was always a sexual encounter a

137

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022103
