Any thoughts on the guy?

Meanwhile, | hope all is going well for you now and | wish you a happy and healthy new year.

David Schoen

From: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com>
To:

Sent: Mon, Feb 22, 2010 5:09 pm

Subject: Re:

the strange person is
On Mon, Feb 22, 2010 at 3:33 PM, <> wrote:

As terrible as the system is and has been to you, | have to tell you one encouraging thing. Last Friday | spoke ona
panel in DC on the justice system. | was seated next to Justice Breyer and got to know him a bit. For what it is
worth, he certainly seem to understand that the system is broken and | hear this more and more. Indeed, he made it
very clear that he thinks the sentencing system (which he helped form as a member of the Sentencing Commission)
is broken and while you are past having to deal with that, | would like to think this raises some hope that the rest of
the system will improve if others in his position feel the same.

Tomorrow | go to Alabama to argue before the court of appeals regarding the constitutionality of Alabama's
Community Notification Act, which the lower court struck down as unconstitutional already. Ultra right wing court
and election year, so who knows; but these laws are so Draconian.

| saw that the U.S. Attorney's office is appearing in your civil cases as well. Some strange folks in that
office. Anyway, | will look forward to talking and while all the judges are going to be tough, Judges Marra and
Johnson so far have not been rubber stamps for government in my case and that means something.

David

EKER KEREREREEREREREREREREREREREREREREREEEE EERE EREREREREEE

The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of

Jeffrey Epstein

Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited
and may be unlawful. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and
destroy this communication and all copies thereof,
including all attachments.

<

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031494
