reproduce... one consequence is
that selfish genes evolved
through individual-level selection
processes to promote social
preferences and group processes,
including reciprocal social
behaviors, that can extend
beyond kin relationships

The concept of inclusive fitness helps to
explain why humans care for the young
when they are sick, and even why they
care for those who when healthy are able
to contribute to caring for the young. In
addition, it may be that hunter-gatherers
were more likely to survive and
reproduce when they cared for a
wounded or sickened member of the
clan—thereby establishing an
expectation of reciprocity that would
contribute to social cohesion, collective
effort, and defense of other group
members. These provide at least the
rudiments of an evolutionary rationale
for the practice of medicine.

Yet, medicine does not involve
caring merely (or even primarily) for the
young, much less for those who are most
genetically fit. Rather, medicine in large
measure involves caring for those who
either have no capacity to contribute to
the gene pool because they are aged and
otherwise infertile, or whose
contributions to that pool will reduce
population fitness because they are
genetically predisposed to sickness and
disability. Concern about the latter led
Francis Galton and many of his
American and European contemporaries
to embrace social Darwinism and to
champion efforts to keep the diminished
and infirm from reproducing. In the
United States, the eugenics movement
was memorialized in the infamous words
of Supreme Court justice Oliver Wendell
Holmes, who justified the
constitutionality of the forced

141

Page

sterilization of mentally ‘unfit’ women
in the case of Buck v. Bell by writing,
“Three generations of imbeciles are
enough.” Sterilization rates under
eugenic laws in the United States
increased following this ruling until the
Skinner v. Oklahoma case in 1942, after
which point they declined.

The practice of medicine
expresses more than a straightforward
social instinct for protecting the young.
To borrow from Browning, it may be
that medicine builds on and extends the
dynamic of inclusive fitness much like in
Catholic moral theology caritas (love)
builds on and extends eros (desire).
Browning writes, “[Aquinas] held — and
Christianity has always taught — that
Christian love includes more than kin
altruism and the care of our familial
offspring; it must include the love of
neighbor, stranger, and enemy, even to
the point of self-sacrifice.” The
theological concept of God as creator
and Father of all “made it possible for
Christians to build on yet analogically
generalize their kin altruism to all
children of God, even those beyond the
immediate family, their own children
and their own kin.” Even those beyond
the reasonable hope of reproducing or
helping others to reproduce.

Notably, the self-conscious
commitments that animate medicine do
not include promoting population fitness
or ensuring survival of offspring to the
point of reproduction. Rather, physicians
discipline themselves to practices that
make possible the commitment of
medicine: to preserve and restore the
health of patients, notwithstanding
patients’ other characteristics. Religions
ground this care for the sick in sacred
and transcendent obligations to God and
neighbor, and it is not incidental that the
hospital began when Christian monastic

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021387
