forms such as personnel evaluations and promotions, rewards
for improving and developing a company’s compliance pro-
gram, and rewards for ethics and compliance leadership.”
Some organizations, for example, have made adherence to
compliance a significant metric for management's bonuses so
that compliance becomes an integral part of management's
everyday concern. Beyond financial incentives, some compa-
nies have highlighted compliance within their organizations
by recognizing compliance professionals and internal audit
staff. Others have made working in the company’s compli-
ance organization a way to advance an employee’s career.

SEC, for instance, has encouraged companies to embrace

methods to incentivize ethical and lawful behavior:

[MlJake integrity, ethics and compliance part of the
promotion, compensation and evaluation processes
as well. For at the end of the day, the most effective
way to communicate that “doing the right thing” is a
priority, is to reward it. Conversely, if employees are
led to believe that, when it comes to compensation
and career advancement, all that counts is short-term
profitability, and that cutting ethical corners is an ac-
ceptable way of getting there, they'll perform to that
measure. To cite an example from a different walk
of life: a college football coach can be told that the
graduation rates of his players are what matters, but
he’ll know differently if the sole focus of his contract
extension talks or the decision to fire him is his win-

loss record. 77!

No matter what the disciplinary scheme or potential
incentives a company decides to adopt, DOJ and SEC will
consider whether they are fairly and consistently applied
across the organization. No executive should be above com-
pliance, no employee below compliance, and no person
within an organization deemed too valuable to be disci-
plined, if warranted. Rewarding good behavior and sanc-
tioning bad behavior reinforces a culture of compliance and

ethics throughout an organization.

Third-Party Due Diligence and Payments

DOJ’s and SEC’s FCPA enforcement actions dem-
onstrate that third parties, including agents, consultants,
and distributors, are commonly used to conceal the pay-

ment of bribes to foreign officials in international business

Guiding Principles
of Enforcement

transactions. Risk-based due diligence is particularly impor-
tant with third parties and will also be considered by DOJ
and SEC in assessing the effectiveness of a company’s com-
pliance program.

Although the degree of appropriate due diligence
may vary based on industry, country, size and nature of the
transaction, and historical relationship with the third-party,
some guiding principles always apply.

First, as part of risk-based due diligence, companies
should understand the qualifications and associations of
its third-party partners, including its business reputation,
and relationship, if any, with foreign officials. The degree of
scrutiny should increase as red flags surface.

Second, companies should have an understanding of
the business rationale for including the third party in the
transaction. Among other things, the company should
understand the role of and need for the third party and
ensure that the contract terms specifically describe the ser-
vices to be performed. Additional considerations include
payment terms and how those payment terms compare to
typical terms in that industry and country, as well as the
timing of the third party’s introduction to the business.
Moreover, companies may want to confirm and document
that the third party is actually performing the work for
which it is being paid and that its compensation is com-
mensurate with the work being provided.

Third, companies should undertake some form of
ongoing monitoring of third-party relationships.*”* Where
appropriate, this may include updating due diligence peri-
odically, exercising audit rights, providing periodic train-
ing, and requesting annual compliance certifications by the
third party.

In addition to considering a company’s due dili-
gence on third parties, DOJ and SEC also assess whether

the company has informed third parties of the company’s

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022562

