Esa Origins 7 February 24 — 26, 2017
PROJECT An Origins Project Scientific Workshop
Challenges of Artificial Intelligence:

Envisioning and Addressing Adverse Outcomes

ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY

overall software security remains vulnerable: “vulnerabilities are dense” in production code, incentives
for securing loT systems are low, key vulnerabilities are stockpiled rather than globally patched. Using
machine learning the techniques for vulnerability detection are increasingly sophisticated but opaque.

At some point adaptive cyber defense/offense systems become scalable so they can take over
vulnerable systems. More aggressive actors combine these systems with botnet functionality and
retaliatory responses (e.g. counter-hacking or DDoS attacks) to protect themselves. Since vulnerability
discovery is scalable, as they spread and acquire more resources they become more effective. At this
point an external cause (e.g. cyberattacks due to an international conflict) or just chance cause
aggressive systems to begin large-scale cyberwarfare. This triggers other systems to join in. Some
attacks disrupt command-and-control links, producing self-replicating independent systems.

All together this leads to a massive degradation of the functionality of the Internet and modern society.
Defeating the evolving cyberwarfare systems is hard without taking essential parts of society offline for
an extended time - made doubly difficult due to the international stresses unleashed by the outbreak,
which in some cases spill over into real-world conflicts and economic crashes. But without a decisive
way of cleaning systems the problem will be persistent until entirely new secure infrastructure can be
built at a great cost.

HUMAN DIMENSION OF CYBERSECURITY: Al FOR SOCIAL ENGINEERING

Beyond direct effects on computing systems, rising concerns include the use of Al methods for social
engineering to gain access to system authentication information. For example, recent work
demonstrated the use of an iterative machine learning and optimization loop for spear phishing on
Twitter. There are concerns with Al leveraging one of the weakest links in cybersecurity: people and
their actions.

DISCUSSION

What are key threats ahead and how might they be addressed with new designs? How might we
thwart the risk of Al for guiding “social engineering” of attacks and release of information? What are
concrete proposals for best practices for thwarting Al for cyberattacks, including highlighting of areas
where more research is needed?

REFERENCES
Singer and Friedman. 2014. Cybersecurity and Cyberwar: What Everyone Needs to Know

Flashpoint, 2016. “Ransomware as a Service: Inside an Organized Russian Ransomware Campaign,”
(registration required for download), available from Flashpoint library at https://www.flashpoint-

intel.com/library/

Seymour, J. and Tully, P. 2016. “Weaponizing data science for social engineering: Automated E2E spear
phishing on Twitter,” available at https://www.blackhat.com/docs/us-16/materials/us-16-

14

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011297
