dead stare—had actually done extraordinarily well. Conway, who had never been involved
in a national campaign, and who, before Trump, ran a small-time, down-ballot polling
firm, understood full well that, post-campaign, she would now be one of the leading
conservative voices on cable news.

In fact, one of the Trump campaign pollsters, John McLaughlin, had begun to suggest
within the past week or so that some key state numbers, heretofore dismal, might actually
be changing to Trump’s advantage. But neither Conway nor Trump himself nor his son-in-
law Jared Kushner—the effective head of the campaign, or the designated family monitor
of 1it—wavered in their certainty: their unexpected adventure would soon be over.

Only Steve Bannon, in his odd-man view, insisted the numbers would break in their
favor. But this being Bannon’s view—crazy Steve—it was quite the opposite of being a
reassuring one.

Almost everybody in the campaign, still an extremely small outfit, thought of
themselves as a clear-eyed team, as realistic about their prospects as perhaps any in
politics. The unspoken agreement among them: not only would Donald Trump not be
president, he should probably not be. Conveniently, the former conviction meant nobody
had to deal with the latter issue.

As the campaign came to an end, Trump himself was sanguine. He had survived the
release of the Billy Bush tape when, in the uproar that followed, the RNC had had the gall
to pressure him to quit the race. FBI director James Comey, having bizarrely hung Hillary
out to dry by saying he was reopening the investigation into her emails eleven days before
the election, had helped avert a total Clinton landslide.

“IT can be the most famous man in the world,” Trump told his on-again, off-again aide
Sam Nunberg at the outset of the campaign.

“But do you want to be president?” Nunberg asked (a qualitatively different question
than the usual existential candidate test: “Why do you want to be president?”). Nunberg
did not get an answer.

The point was, there didn’t need to be an answer because he wasn’t going to be
president.

Trump’s longtime friend Roger Ailes liked to say that if you wanted a career in
television, first run for president. Now Trump, encouraged by Ailes, was floating rumors
about a Trump network. It was a great future.

He would come out of this campaign, Trump assured Ailes, with a far more powerful
brand and untold opportunities. “This is bigger than I ever dreamed of,” he told Ailes in a
conversation a week before the election. “I don’t think about losing because it isn’t losing.
We’ve totally won.” What’s more, he was already laying down his public response to
losing the election: /t was stolen!

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019891
