[9

Congress is all over the place, Gates says at one point. And the
Republicans are a perfect example. I mean, you've got the budget
hawks and then you've got the defense hawks within the same party.
And so I think there is no consensus on a role in the world.

In some ways, the first part of his tenure was easier. During the Bush
years, money was never an issue. By contrast, Obama faced a harsh
economic reality, and Gates tried to get in front of the issue by
shrinking the Pentagon budget. But his cuts satisfied neither hawks
nor doves nor the White House. This spring, when Obama announced
a $400 billion reduction in defense spending, Gates got just 24 hours’
notice. Gates, who'll be succeeded by CIA chief Leon Panetta, wins
bipartisan accolades for restoring morale at the Pentagon and, more
important, repairing relations with Congress, which had grown
distrustful of the Defense Department under Rumsfeld.

Bridging two administrations, Gates gets credit for stabilizing Iraq,
though the key decisions that led to success--a surge of troops and the
appointment of Gen. David Petraeus to oversee the strategy--predated
his arrival. Petraeus says Gates knew that his real contribution was
to buy time in Washington for the strategy to succeed.  Your battle
space is Iraq. My battle space is Washington,'  Petraeus recalls Gates
telling him. Gates concedes he was sometimes on the wrong side of
an issue. For instance, he was gun-shy about using ground troops to
kill Osama bin Laden, arguing that Obama should opt for an airstrike
instead. Gates hesitated because he feared a repeat of the bungled
1980 attempt to free American hostages in Iran that killed eight U.S.
servicemen. I was very explicit with the president in one of the
discussions, Gates acknowledges. I said: 'Mr. President, I want
truth in lending. Because of experience, I may be too cautious, you
know.'? Obama overruled Gates, siding with those who wanted to
deploy the elite Navy SEALs, securing the biggest victory in the 10-
year war on terror. Rather than a transformational figure, a more

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_032189
