“INFORMATION” FOR WIENER, FOR SHANNON, AND FOR US
David Kaiser

David Kaiser is Germeshausen Professor of the History of Science and professor of
Physics at MIT, and head of its Program in Science, Technology & Society. He is the
author of How the Hippies Saved Physics: Science, Counterculture, and the Quantum
Revival and American Physics and the Cold War Bubble (forthcoming).

In The Sleepwalkers, a sweeping history of scientific thought from ancient times through
the Renaissance, Arthur Koestler identified a tension that has marked the most dramatic
leaps of our cosmological imagination. In reading the great works of Nicolaus
Copernicus and Johannes Kepler today, Koestler argued, we are struck as much by their
strange unfamiliarity—their embeddedness in the magic or mysticism of an earlier age—
as by their modern-sounding insights.

I detect that same doubleness—the zig-zag origami folds of old and new—in
Norbert Wiener’s classic The Human Use of Human Beings. First published in 1950 and
revised in 1954, the book is in many ways extraordinarily prescient. Wiener, the MIT
polymath, recognized before most observers that “society can only be understood through
a study of the messages and the communication facilities which belong to it.”. Wiener
argued that feedback loops, the central feature of his theory of cybernetics, would play a
determining role in social dynamics. Those loops would not only connect people with
one another but connect people with machines, and—crucially—machines with
machines.

Wiener glimpsed a world in which information could be separated from its
medium. People, or machines, could communicate patterns across vast distances and use
them to fashion new items at the endpoints, without “moving a...particle of matter from
one end of the line to the other,” a vision now realized in our world of networked 3D
printers. Wiener also imagined machine-to-machine feedback loops driving huge
advances in automation, even for tasks that had previously relied on human judgment.
“The machine plays no favorites between manual labor and white-collar labor,” he
observed.

For all that, many of the central arguments in Zhe Human Use of Human Beings
seem closer to the 19th century than the 21st. In particular, although Wiener made
reference throughout to Claude Shannon’s then-new work on information theory, he
seems not to have fully embraced Shannon’s notion of information as consisting of
irreducible, meaning-free bits. Since Wiener’s day, Shannon’s theory has come to
undergird recent advances in “Big Data” and “deep learning,” which makes it all the
more interesting to revisit Wiener’s cybernetic imagination. How might tomorrow’s
artificial intelligence be different if practitioners were to re-invest in Wiener’s guiding
vision of “information”?

When Wiener wrote Zhe Human Use of Human Beings, his experiences of war-related
research, and of what struck him as the moral ambiguities of intellectual life amid the
military-industrial complex, were still fresh. Just a few years earlier, he had announced

109

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016912
