company.

Certain ERISA Under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as

Considerations: amended (“ERISA”), fiduciaries of prospective investors that
are retirement plans subject to ERISA (“ERISA Plans”) must
determine that an investment in the Fund is prudent, that such
investment satisfies the requirement that plan assets be
diversified and that such investment complies with the other
requirements applicable to ERISA Plans. The General Partner
intends to conduct the operations of the Fund so that it will be
an appropriate investment for ERISA Plans. In particular, the
General Partner will use reasonable best efforts to conduct the
affairs and operations of the Fund in such a manner so that the
assets of the Fund will not be treated as “plan assets” of any
ERISA Plan for purposes of ERISA. Prospective investors that
are ERISA Plans are advised to consult their own advisors as to
the effect of ERISA (or other applicable law) on an investment in
the Fund. The fiduciary of each prospective ERISA Plan
investor must independently determine that the Fund is an
appropriate investment for such ERISA Plan, taking into
account the fiduciary’s obligations under ERISA and the facts
and circumstances of each investing ERISA Plan. (See Section X,
“Certain Tax and ERISA Considerations.”)

U.S. Tax-Exempt Investors: Prospective investors are advised to consult their own tax
advisors as to the tax consequences of an investment in the
Fund. Subject to certain exceptions, the General Partner will use
reasonable best efforts to conduct the affairs of the Fund in a
manner that is not expected to cause any tax- exempt partner to
realize any “unrelated business taxable income” within the
meaning of Sections 512 through 514 of the Code. (See Section
X, “Certain Tax and ERISA Considerations.”) The General
Partner’s undertaking will be deemed satisfied with respect to
the making, holding or disposing of any portfolio investment if
the tax exempt U.S. Partners are given the opportunity to (or if
all Limited Partners are otherwise required to) hold their
proportionate shares of such portfolio investment directly or
indirectly through an alternative investment vehicle treated as a
corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes.

Non-U.S. Investors: Prospective investors are advised to consult their own tax
advisors as to the tax consequences of an investment in the
Fund. Subject to certain exceptions, the General Partner will use
commercially reasonable efforts to conduct the affairs of the
Fund in a manner that is not expected to cause the Fund to be
treated for United States federal income tax purposes as
engaged in a “trade or business within the United States,”

56 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024067
