After my trip, I told my friend that I needed to dedicate all my energies to developing a method of
receiving income from U.S. citizens while living elsewhere. VOIP had recently been introduced to the
marketplace and Internet service was improving in South America and other parts of the third world.

The business had to be based upon absolute mobility. I boiled the whole business down to two basic
functions: reliable telephone via VOIP and high-speed Internet.

At the time I had a small research consultation practice where I was helping doctoral students on the
phone and via e-mail to complete their dissertations, theses, and statistical analyses. I had a small
website that was getting traffic but I was relying on others for web and marketing services. I
subsequently learned more about search engine optimization and web marketing and eventually took
control of all web marketing and promotion of my website, http://www.ResearchConsultation.com,
allowing me to expand my business substantially.

During the next three years I conducted numerous “mobile tests” ... traveling to Costa Rica, the
Dominican Republic, Venezuela, and Colombia in order to fine-tune my system of conducting business
from abroad.

I finally left my job last November, the day before Thanksgiving, vowing to never return to the
mundane 9-to-5 structure. My job had even recently instituted a “bio-metric fingerprint” identification
system where you had to “punch in and out” at the beginning and end of your hospital shift with your
fingerprint to ensure that you were working your eight hours. This was just another sign that I had to
leave.

I now live in NYC and Colombia and travel to other parts of the world throughout the year: speaking
to customers, managing my contractors (U.S. and Colombian) in order to acquire U.S. dollars while
living for a fraction of the cost abroad. I’m also developing other websites and businesses (community
forums) that will hopefully be more automated, requiring less day-to-day interaction and monitoring.

Well, that’s my story for now ... today South America, tomorrow anywhere I can get a high-speed
connection (banda ancha)! My stress level has dropped significantly since leaving my old job and my
quality of life has improved enormously.

My family and friends in NYC still think ’'m out of my mind, and I continue to fully agree with
them.... —JEFF B.

THE 4-HOUR FAMILY AND GLOBAL EDUCATION
Tim,
We moved to a totally digital nomadic life traveling the world as a family in 2006, so we discovered

your book and ideas after we had begun and loved it! Our life has changed totally and is more fulfilling
and much more simple. We are greener, leaner, healthier, happier, more connected.

Other people thought we were absolutely nuts when we decided to do this in 2004/5, but now many of
those same people think we are smart and psychic.

Problems finding a good school fit (despite having many award-winning excellent ones at our
disposal) was probably the most specific moment (John Taylor Gatto says it best on why schools do not
educate) that helped us to change as well as wanting more time together and forecasting the
house/economy crash coming.

I think more families will be taking mini-retirements and living slower, traveling digital nomadic lives.
If you are away for months as a family, you need to be informed about all the wonderful educational
opportunities which are actually richer than staying home (which few realize)!

There are a TON of fantastic resources like Classroom 2.0 and many innovative educators online. My
daughter just turned eight and is having a blast with her online course with John Hopkins
University/CTY and it is also a nice resource for friends. Today one can immerse deeply in one culture

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014023
