189

twelfth among all the Chinese websites in the United States. Its reporting hews closely

to China’s official media:

¢ Example 1: On June 27, 2017, the US Department of State, in its annual Trafficking
in Persons Report 2017, put China at Tier 3, the lowest class. In reporting this
news, SinovisionNet simply reposted comments from the official website of the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of China attacking the human rights record of the
United States.'

e Example 2: In March 2017, the US State Department published its 2016 Human
Rights Report. SinovisionNet published two stories on this topic. One reported
the reaction to the story by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The other story
came from Xinhua, which was highly critical of the US human rights situation.
SinovisionNet also published two reports by the Information Office of the State
Council of China on America’s human rights record. It did not publish State

Department’s human rights report.’

e Example 3: On the tensions in the South China Sea, almost all the stories posted
on SinovisionNet are from official Chinese media outlets and websites. They are

naturally critical of US actions in that area.?

Qiaobao and the Sino American Times

Qiaobao, or the China Press (#%, http://www.uschinapress.com), is the flagship
pro-PRC newspaper published in the United States. Its website ranks forty-first among
all the Chinese websites in the United States. Qiaobao was established in 1990. It is
headquartered in New York City with branches in twelve major metropolitan areas of
the United States. The Sino American Times (HN) is a free paper and not a major

media presence in the United States.

Independent Media

Over the course of the last decade, most of the independent Chinese-language media
outlets in the United States have been taken over by businessmen sympathetic to the
PRC.

e Wenxuecheng (34%, wenxuecheng.com) is the most popular Chinese-language

website in the United States. In 2003, it was purchased by a Taiwanese American

Appendix3

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020648
