and roared through South Florida, he said Coleman offered no proof, such as an
affidavit from Epstein, to shore up her claims.

Still, Hafele gave Coleman extra time to respond to various motions that he will have
to decide before the case goes to trial.

Despite Scarola’s insistence that Edwards had nothing to do with Rothstein’s Ponzi
scheme, Coleman said the evidence indicates otherwise. Why else would he try to
depose Epstein’s well-known friends, such as now President Donald Trump, former
President Bill Clinton and illusionist David Copperfield, she asked. He used the
celebrities as a draw, she said.

“The Epstein cases were used to fleece money and defraud investors,” she said.

Edward’s malicious prosecution case has been difficult for both sides because both
Epstein and Edwards have refused to answer questions. As he did in the civil
lawsuits, Epstein has invoked his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination
when questioned by Scarola. Edwards has claimed that much of the information
Epstein is seeking is protected by attorney-client privilege.

The malicious prosecution lawsuit is one of two hotly-contested lawsuits that
continue to pit Edwards against Epstein. Edwards also is suing the U.S. attorney’s
office, claiming it violated the federal Crime Victims Rights Act when it negotiated a
non-prosecution agreement with Epstein.

Only after federal prosecutors agreed to drop their investigation of Epstein, did he
agree to plead guilty to two prostitution charges in Palm Beach County Circuit
Court. In federal court records, prosecutors claim one of the key reasons they agreed
to drop their case was Epstein’s agreement to settle lawsuits filed against him by
dozens of his underage victims.

Sign up for daily e-mail
Wake up to the day’s top news, delivered to your inbox

Sponsored Content

Trending topics for Baby Boomers
By The Palm Beach Post

Read the latest news specific to the Baby Boomer Generation on health, retirement,
finances, and much more...

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029862
