54044

Federal Register/Vol. 76, No. 168/Tuesday, August 30, 2011/Rules and Regulations

will not have a significant economic
impact on a substantial number of small
entities. 5 U.S.C. 605(b) (emphasis
added). The Board understands the
“economic impact of * * * the rule’ to
refer to the costs to affected entities of
complying with the rule, not to the
economic impact of a series of
subsequent decisions made by
individual actors in the economy that
are neither compelled by, nor the
inevitable result of, the rule.197 Even if
more employees opt for union
representation after learning about their
rights, employers can avoid the adverse
effects on business costs, flexibility, and
profitability predicted by Baker &
Daniels LLP and other commenters by
not agreeing to unions’ demands that
might produce those effects.198

The Board finds support for this view
in the language of Section 603 of the
RFA, which lists the items to be
included in an initial regulatory
flexibility analysis if one is required. 5
U.S.C. 603. Section 603(a) states only
that such analysis ‘‘shall describe the
impact of the proposed rule on small
entities.” 5 U.S.C. 603(a). However,
Section 603(b) provides, as relevant
here, that “[e]ach initial regulatory
flexibility analysis * * * shall
contain—* * *

“(4) a description of the projected
reporting, recordkeeping and other
compliance requirements of the
proposed rule, including an estimate of
the classes of small entities which will
be subject to the requirement and the
type of professional skills necessary for
preparation of the report or record|[.]”’ 5
U.S.C. 603(b)(4) (emphasis added). The
Small Business Administration cites, as
examples of “other compliance
requirements,”

(a) Capital costs for equipment needed to
meet the regulatory requirements; (b) costs of
modifying existing processes and procedures
to comply with the proposed rule; (c) lost
sales and profits resulting from the proposed
rule; (d) changes in market competition as a
result of the proposed rule and its impact on
small entities or specific submarkets of small
entities; (e) extra costs associated with the
payment of taxes or fees associated with the
proposed rule; and (f) hiring employees
dedicated to compliance with regulatory
requirements.199

Thus, the “impact” on small entities
referred to in Section 603(a) refers only

197 For RFA purposes, the relevant economic
impact on small entities is the impact of
compliance with the rule. Mid-Tex Electric
Cooperative, Inc. v. FERC, 773 F.2d 327, 342 (D.C.
Cir. 1985), cited in SBA Guide, above, at 77.

198 NLRA Section 8(d) expressly states that the
obligation to bargain in good faith “does not compel
either party to agree to a proposal or require the
making of a concession|[.]” 29 U.S.C. 158(d).

199 SBA Guide, above, at 34.

to the rule’s projected compliance costs
to small entities (none of which would
result from posting a workplace notice),
not the kinds of speculative and indirect
economic impact that Baker & Daniels
LLC invokes,?°°

Associated Builders and Contractors,
Inc. (ABC) and Retail Industry Leaders
Association (RILA) contend that the
Board’s RFA analysis fails to account for
the costs of electronic notice posting,
especially for employers that
communicate with employees via
multiple electronic means. Both
comments deplore what they consider
to be the rule’s vague requirements in
this respect. ABC argues that clear
guidance is needed, and that the Board
should withdraw the electronic notice
posting requirements until more
information can be gathered. RILA
asserts that ‘“‘[d]eciphering and
complying with the Board’s
requirements would impose significant
legal and administrative costs and
inevitably result [in] litigation as parties
disagree about when a communication
is ‘customarily used,’ and whether and
when employees need to be informed
through multiple communications.”

Numerous comments assert that
employers, especially small employers
that lack professional human resources
staff, will incur significant legal
expenses as they attempt to comply
with the rule. For example, Fisher and
Phillips, a management law firm, urges
that the cost of legal fees should be
included in assessing the economic
impact of the proposed rule: “[I]t might
be considered naive to assume that a
significant percentage of small
employers would not seek the advice of
counsel, and it would be equally naive
to assume that a significant percentage
of those newly-engaged lawyers could
be retained for as little as $31.02/hour.”’

Those comments are not persuasive.
The choice to retain counsel is not a
requirement for complying with the
rule. This is not a complicated or
nuanced rule. The employer is only
required to post a notice provided by
the Board in the same manner in which
that employer customarily posts notices
to its employees. The Board has
explained above what the rule’s
electronic posting provisions require of
employers in general, and it has
simplified those provisions by
eliminating the requirement that notices
be provided by email and many other
forms of electronic communication.?°! It

200 Baker & Daniels LLP cites no authority to
support its contention that the RFA is concerned
with costs other than the costs of compliance with
the rule, and the Board is aware of none.

201 Contrary to ABC’s and RILA’s assertions, the
Board did estimate the cost of complying with the

should not be necessary for employers,
small or large, to add human resources
staff, retain counsel, or resort to
litigation if they have questions
concerning whether the proposed rule
applies to them or about the
requirements for technical compliance
with the rule, including how the
electronic posting provisions
specifically affect their enterprises.2°?
Such questions can be directed to the
Board’s regional offices, either by
telephone, personal visit, email, or
regular mail, and will be answered free
of charge by representatives of the
Board.293

Cass County Electric Cooperative
argues that the Board failed to take into
account legal expenses that employers
will incur if they fail to ‘follow the
letter of the proposed rule.” The
comment urges that the Board should
estimate the cost to businesses ‘‘should
they have to defend themselves against
an unfair labor practice for failure to
comply with the rule, no matter what
the circumstances for that failure might
be,’ presumably including failures to
post the notice by employers that are
unaware of the rule and inadvertent
failures to comply with technical
posting requirements. International
Foodservice Distributors Association
contends that the Board also should
have considered the costs of tolling the
statute of limitations when employers
fail to post the notice. However, the
costs referred to in these comments are
costs of not complying with the rule, not
compliance costs. As stated above, for
RFA purposes, the relevant economic
analysis focuses on the costs of
complying with the rule.2°

rule’s electronic notice posting requirements; its
estimated average cost of $62.04 specifically
included such costs. 75 FR 80415. Although ABC
faults the Board for failing to issue a preliminary
request for information (RFI) concerning the ways
employers communicate with employees
electronically, the Board did ask for comments
concerning its RFA certification in the NPRM, id.
at 80416. In this regard, ABC states only that “many
ABC member companies communicate with
employees through email or other electronic
means,” which the Board expressly contemplated
in the NPRM, id. at 80413, and which is also the
Board’s practice with respect to communicating
with its own employees. If ABC has more specific
information it has failed to provide it. In any event,
he final rule will not require email or many other
ypes of electronic notice.

202 Association of Corporate Counsel contends
hat employers will have to modify their policies
and procedures manuals as a result of the rule. The
Board questions that contention, but even if some
employers do take those steps, they would not be
a cost of complying with the rule.

203 Fisher and Phillips also suggest that the Board
ailed to take into account the effect that the
proposed rule would have on the Board’s own case
intake and budget. The RFA, however, does not
require an estimate of the economic effects of
proposed rules on Federal agencies.

204 See fn. 197, above.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022315
