Terrorism, we have to understand, is merely one example of network danger and
power. So is China. And Russia. And these may not even be the most dangerous or
devastating network battles that will take place in our lives. It’s a commonplace to
say now that the international system is in the greatest period of upheval in more
than half a century. But often this sort of remark is accompanied by a list of moving
pieces that seem to be unconnected: China’s rise, the return of Russia, changes in the
Middle East, globalization and then reverse globalization. “Who would have thought
the post Cold War era, which was supposed to be characterized by ‘softpower’ and
economic interdependence would be so violent?”®* one team of scholars recently
wrote, reflecting the genuine wonderment of many “experts” who failed to predic
the end of the Cold War and then, largely, the nature of what has come after. Who
would have thought? Well, as we'll see, anyone who understands networks.

Thomas Hobbes - the 16 century British philosopher long considered an early
master of the analysis of cold, brutal power - once put it simply enough: Nations, he
said, need to be mastered. “During the time men live without a common power to
keep them all in awe, they are in that condition which is called war,” he wrote. “Such
a war as is of every man against every man.”°’ A precondition of peace, for Hobbes,
was that some country or force or tribe decisively grips a region, an empire, even
the globe. “A common power to keep them all in awe,” fulfilled a need for order. In
our connected age, the common, awesome power is already here. It is networks. The
battle now is for and on of this genuinely historic, still curious force. They will be
attacked, throttled, trashed, accelerated, used, upgraded, won and lost and inflicted
on each of us and our security by those with a new sensibility. To feel the world with
a Seventh Sense will reveal a whole new landscape of power; it will permit us to see
the fibers of a new age and then weave them into how we see and think and, finally,
act. That essential, decisive terrain of our new age is, to the “Smart Power” and
“Don’t Come Home” crowd, still largely invisible and, anyhow, incomprehensible.

7.

Just as rivers or mountains or air currents drove commerce and combat in past eras,
networks will strongly, probably decisively, influence the dynamics ahead. Today
you can’t, after all, operate on the rivers or mountains or in the skies or space
without lively, near-instant connection. The space these interlocking networks
occupy represents a new geography. It is growing every day, as if it were a giant new
continent fusing together under the surface of the sea. We are, as the team at Gee!
Do! discovered, moving from a world in which nations battled nations to one in
which nations battle networks. And a world where networks battle networks. In
coming years, networks will surely break nations, as once nations broke each other.
It is linked the systems of trade and economics and biology and data that will create

66 “Who would have thought”: Robert Hutchings and Jeremi Suri, Foreign Policy
Breakthroughs: Cases in Successful Diplomacy (Oxford: Oxford University Press,
2015) p. 2

67 “During the time”: Thomas Hobbes, Leviathan, (Cambridge University Press,
2002) 88,

51

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018283
