safe, “unconnected” neighbor.'*? The heat transfer had a simple message: Nothing is
safe.

Why put such effort, worthy of the deepest physics problems, into the challenge of
sneaking into a cellphone undetected? Well, for Seaborn and Dullien, the drive was
part of a “discover and publish” effort to keep the overall system clean. It is better to
hack, discover and patch than to be hacked, and remain undiscovered. But these
“good guy” engineers are racing against different, equivalently sophisticated, less-
decently inspired teams. The development and sale of zero-day bugs is, after all, a
business. Modern versions of Cap’n Crunch whistles crack access to some of the
most essential financial, political and security data stores on the planet. As the
power and value of hacking targets has increased, so has the price of the exploits.
Public “zero day markets” sponsored by companies like Google and Microsoft pay
hundreds of thousands of dollars to researchers who discover holes in their
systems. “Better to find them ourselves,” the thinking goes. Though that does not
always make the embarrassment less acute when holes are spotted. At one of the
most carefully watched public hacking competitions in early 2015, for instance, a
skinny, smiling South Korean named Jung Hoon Lee took home $225,000 in prize
money by pwning a series of some of the most important, common programs on the
planet, Apple’s web browser Safari and Google’s Chrome among them. These
systems had been constructed at the cost of hundreds of millions of dollars. They‘d
been assembled under the gaze of some of the best PhD-led computer scientists in
the world. Jung Hoon Lee’s exploits ran through their complete defenses in less than
a minute. 144

As good and fast as someone like Lee might be, he’s nothing compared to what the
best hackers do. They don’t work in public or compete in hotel ballrooms. They
don’t brag. And they develop ideas that make $225,000 look like a bargain. These
successors to the Warez Dudes work for cybercriminal billionaires, for intelligence
agencies, and even (often) just for themselves. They help find and deploy the sorts of
really deep system exploits that enable brazen cyber thefts of millions of pieces of
personal data or attacks like the Stuxnet virus, which caused thousands of Iranian
nuclear centrifuges to vibrate themselves apart. And they do still more: Most of the
attacks we've talked about so far occur in installed, running boxes. But the
companies that make those boxes oversee a whole, vulnerable process of building
and testing and designing and installing them. And it’s here, with billion dollar
budgets at work, that some exploit teams make and leave vulnerabilities that they
can later, ruthlessly exploit. Every step of that gestation — from sneaking secrets into
early code bases to intercepting and rewiring routers as they ship overseas — is now
an opportunity for secret control. Or for unanticipated risk, for “emergent

143 In a video: For a description of this exploit see Mordechai Guri, Matan Monitz,
Yisroel Mirski, Yuval Elovici, “BitWhisper: Covert Signaling Channel between Air-
Gapped Computers using Thermal Manipulations” (2015) available on
arXiv:1503.07919 [cs.CR]

144 Jung Hoon Lee’s exploits: “Chrome, Firefox, Explorer, Safari Were All hacked at
Pwn2Own Contest”, PC World via IDG News Service Mar 20, 2015

103

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018335
