te OK ok

The original version of this article can be found on the Internet, but please note that I've
done some editing for clarity. Here's the original:

http://carnalnation.com/content/46266/1 133/sexual-abcs-africa-part-3-condoms

ACTIVISM:
[theory] Colonized Libidos

This article was published at CarnalNation.com in early 2010. Anti-oppression theory
sure can get out of touch with reality.

te ok ok

Colonized Libidos

The situation for gay / lesbian rights here in Africa has gotten lots of media attention
lately, and I myself have written about meeting a Swazi lesbian activist who was later
murdered. So I won't waste your time by talking about how bad it can get to be gay here
(although it's worth noting that I've seen at least one interesting argument about how the
places in Africa where homosexuality is most heavily punished are also the ones with the
strongest national dialogue, and thus arguably some of the best ones to actually be gay).
Besides, I've become somewhat numb to the situation's sheer awfulness since arriving last
year. What catches my attention these days is unfamiliar cultural angles and arguments.

While reading the local paper, I recently came upon yet another gay-shaming article --
but instead of railing about God's will, the article talked about cultural imperialism.
Specifically, it argued that gays and lesbians are gay and lesbian only because of the
West. Gays and lesbians, the theory goes, have been so influenced by the Sodom and
Gomorrah that is the West that they've internalized our permissive, scandalous sexual
mores. (Those of us who actually come from the West are, of course, a little confused by
how our fractured native cultures -- still fiercely arguing about homosexuality within
themselves -- might create such an influence.) An African proud of his or her
Africanness, who rejects the colonial West, will therefore not only wear African
traditional garb and participate in African traditional ceremonies but will also be straight.
(Ironically, some historians have pointed out that much of Africa was much less
homophobic before Western missionaries came in.)

I got a front-line view of this attitude when I took a newspaper to the Post Office for
photocopying. Another article about lesbians! snorted the postmaster -- they're getting
to know me around there. He took the papers from me and shuffled through my requested
pages. Is it true,” he asked, that President Obama supports lesbians?”

Yes, I said.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018594
