astonished as anyone—a kind of Stepford factotum, as absolutely dedicated to and tolerant
of Mr. Trump as anyone who had ever worked for him.

Shortly after Lewandowski, with whom Hicks had an on-and-off romantic relationship,
was fired in June 2016 for clashing with Trump family members, Hicks sat in Trump
Tower with Trump and his sons, worrying about Lewandowski’s treatment in the press and
wondering aloud how she might help him. Trump, who otherwise seemed to treat Hicks in
a protective and even paternal way, looked up and said, “Why? You’ve already done
enough for him. You’re the best piece of tail he’ll ever have,” sending Hicks running from
the room.

As new layers began to form around Trump, first as nominee and then as president-
elect, Hicks continued playing the role of his personal PR woman. She would remain his
constant shadow and the person with the best access to him. “Have you spoken to Hope?”
were among the words most frequently uttered in the West Wing.

Hicks, sponsored by Ivanka and ever loyal to her, was in fact thought of as Trump’s
real daughter, while Ivanka was thought of as his real wife. More functionally, but as
elementally, Hicks was the president’s chief media handler. She worked by the president’s
side, wholly separate from the White House’s forty-person-strong communications office.
The president’s personal message and image were entrusted to her—or, more accurately,
she was the president’s agent in retailing that message and image, which he trusted to no
one but himself. Together they formed something of a freelance operation.

Without any particular politics of her own, and, with her New York PR background,
quite looking down on the right-wing press, she was the president’s official liaison to the
mainstream media. The president had charged her with the ultimate job: a good write-up
in the New York Times.

That, in the president’s estimation, had yet failed to happen, “but Hope tries and tries,”
the president said.

On more than one occasion, after a day—one of the countless days—of particularly
bad notices, the president greeted her, affectionately, with “You must be the world’s worst
PR person.”

OOK Ok

In the early days of the transition, with Conway out of the running for the press secretary
job, Trump became determined to find a “star.” The conservative radio host Laura
Ingraham, who had spoken at the convention, was on the list, as was Ann Coulter. Fox
Business’s Maria Bartiromo was also under consideration. (This was television, the
president-elect said, and it ought to be a good-looking woman.) When none of those ideas
panned out, the job was offered to Fox News’s Tucker Carlson, who turned it down.

But there was a counterview: the press secretary ought to be the opposite of a star. In

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020037
