KUE Advisory Board

Les Bilfer

Leslie Biller is retired Vice Chairman & Chief Operating Officer of Wells Fargo & Company. Mr. Biller
joined Wells Fargo in 1998, when it merged with Norwest Corporation. Prior to that, he spent nearly 11
years at Norwest, where he held various executive positions including Executive Vice President and head
of Strategic Planning and Acquisitions, Executive Vice President and head of the company’s South
Central Community Banking operations, and President and Chief Operating Officer. Before joining
Norwest, he was Executive Vice President and head of Consumer Markets at Bank of America, based in
San Francisco. Mr. Biller joined Bank of America in 1985 as the Senior Vice President of International
Consumer Markets. Prior to that, he was with Citicorp for 12 years, where he was a Regional Business
Manager, U.K. Region; and Vice President and Business Manager, Italy. Mr. Biller serves on the Board of
Directors of Ecolab Inc., and is a director of the Los Angeles Urban League, the Auiry Museum of
Western Heritage, and is a Founders Circle member of the Fulfillment Fund. He earned his MBA from
Xavier University in Cincinnati, Ohio, and holds a bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering from City
College of New York.

Ted Mitchell

Ted Mitchell was recently named CEO of the New Schools Venture Fund after having served on the New
Schools Board of Directors for seven years. Mr. Mitchell previously served as president of Occidental
College for six years. Immediately prior to Occidental, he served as Vice President for Education and
Strategic Initiatives of the J. Paul Getty Trust. He was also the Deputy to the President at Stanford
University, Vice Chancellor at UCLA, and a Professor of Education at Dartmouth. Mr. Mitchell is an
Education Advisor to California Senator Dianne Feinstein and served as a Senior Education Advisor to
Los Angeles Mayor Richard Riordan.

Tsvi Gal

As Chief Technology Officer for Deutsche Bank Asset Management (Deutsche Bank”), Tsvi Gal is
responsible for constructing an industry leading, state of the art, evolutionary architecture which has
competitively positioned Deutsche Bank for future growth through innovation, processing scale and
efficiency. Prior to joining Deutsche Bank, Mr. Gal was responsible for overseeing global IT operations at
Warner Music Group (WMG), formerly part of the Time Warner family of operations and now a privately-
held multinational music and publishing company. He lent his considerable global technical expertise to
the task of integrating WMG's global systems and exploring technological synergies, as well as
maximizing the opportunities presented by new technologies. Prior to joining WMG, Mr. Gal held the role
of president of AT&T's ATT.COM from 2000 to 2002, where he was responsible for AT&T’s E*Business
and E*commerce activities. In this position, he oversaw the revitalization of AT&T's presence in the
market ensuring its transition into a modern era electronic business market leader. Earlier, Mr. Gai was
the Chief Technology Officer for Enterprise Technology services at Merrill Lynch & Company, where he
helped build the electronic trading system. From 1996 to 1999, he was Executive Vice President and CIO
of North America Applications ABN AMRO Bank, one of the world’s largest global banks. Mr. Gal is a
computer-science graduate of Rutgers University, and holds an MBA from Golden Gate University.

452

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024585
