Dershowitz Goes Off on Woman Who Made Underage Sex Allegations: 'She Should Be... Page 2 of 3
Case 1:19-cv-03377 Document 1-4 Filed 04/16/19 Page 3 of 4

island, when Secret Service records proved they were never even
there.

Dershowitz said Roberts’ allegations were part of an extortion plot,
and that she “should be seriously punished for submitting false
information and a false affidavit.”

The attorney emphasized that Roberts has not been willing to repeat
her allegations against him in public, and that she has only accused
him in the context of litigation, which affords certain protections.

Advertisement

S<acrn2, HELLO SPRING

*asenanis|wineeas” THREE COURSES £29.

“She simply hides behind litigation privileges,” Dershowitz said,
encouraging Ross to call Roberts and see if she would repeat her
claims. “And if she does, | will be in court the next day suing her for
defamation and | will win the case ‘cause | can prove conclusively
that she made up the whole story from top to bottom.”

Ross then turned to the controversial deal that Epstein received from
federal prosecutors who were investigating the trafficking case
against him. Federal prosecutors agreed not to prosecute him, and let
him plead guilty to state charges that resulted in a 13-month prison
sentence that allowed Epstein to leave prison during the day for
work. Federal prosecutors allegedly did not even inform victims
before making the deal, which is now the subject of a request for an
Inspector General investigation. Congressional Democrats said ina
letter that they want to know more about the circumstances
surrounding the deal, which was made by then-U.S. Attorney and
current Secretary of Labor Alex Acosta.

As Epstein’s defense attorney in that case, Dershowitz is not upset
about it the deal at all.

“I’m very proud of that deal, that’s what lawyers are supposed to do,”
he said. “Lawyers are supposed to get the best deals they can.” If he
could have gotten 10 months or no time at all, that would have been
even better, he said.

Acosta said in the past that Epstein’s lawyers, including Dershowitz,
put pressure on his office by investigating his staff. Dershowitz has
denied this.

“Acosta was very tough,” Dershowitz said, contrary to concerns that
he did anything improper. Dershowitz pointed out that the problem
feds had was proving that girls were transported in interstate

commerce.

https://lawandcrime.com/high-profile/dershowitz-goes-off-on-woman-who-made-underage-... 4/3/2019
HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017990
