primary process by Freud and his followers. This forgotten language of the
unconscious, an archaic needs and fear-driven tongue lurking beneath our
supposedly objective discourse, comes to dominate themes of communication in
the middle of these unfinished spiritual transitions. The Rorschach Test of master
meditaters and LSD users overflow with conflictual primary process images, as
does the talk of patients on the verge of schizophrenic decompensation. The
primitive symbolism of primary process provides the major current in the overwritten
prose of the hyper-religious temporal lobe limbic epileptics described previously and
called the Geschwind Syndrome and in the regressed and iconic transference
concerns of patients with tendencies for global and sudden phase transitions,
prostitute to saint, righteous obsessional to conscienceless psychopath, called
borderline personality disorder.

Primary process represents a dynamical brain state, one unburdened by
linearly predictive connections with reality. It is a state without even a transient
single defining physical time or other fixed measure of order. It is without the causal
logic or knowledge of an outside reality that a brain implies in supposing to know. Its
primitively instinctual style and goals contrast with more physically time-locked,
reality oriented thinking which Freud called secondary process and Penn-Lewis

referred to as ordinary and religiously lawful “reasoning faculties.”

An absence of absolute time and space scales with which the executive ego
orders internal and external time and events, and therefore their relations, results in
primary process thinking characterized by condensations of several, often
incompatible, representations into one. Dueling, conflictual and simultaneous
feelings and thoughts float from their relevant objects to others. In the transitional
transcendent state, there may be confusion of self with others, of objects with their
labels, of parts with the whole and of symbols with the things that they symbolize.
This facilitates living in the spirits of the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost at the
same time. Mixed inextricably with saintly awareness and charisma, there are
signatures of instinctually driven and configured primary process. Freud’s classical
work on s/lips of the tongue concerned the intrusion of these instinctual thought

stream condensations from the world of the ganz andere and displacements into

138

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013638
