Freedom House

the Great Leap Forward or the Cultural Revolution,
these and other aspects of the party's past were not
considered utterly taboo, as long as the discussion did
not lead to serious challenges to orthodox historical
interpretations. According to the policies set down
under Xi Jinping’s leadership, talking in classrooms
about Mao's errors is now forbidden.’5

The drive to inculcate a national amnesia on the
worst abuses of the Communist era is not limited to
university courses. Commentary and discussion in the
media and on the internet are also heavily censored,
especially on anniversary days when, in normal
societies, problematic events of the past are remem-
bered and debated.** The most sensitive anniversary,
of course, falls on June 4, marking the deadly 1989
crackdown on prodemocracy protests in Tiananmen
Square. Even the most oblique or coded reference to
that date on social media is quickly censored.

There are no museums cevoted the Cultural Rev-
olution or the Great Leap Forward. The archives of
the Cultural Revolution period are mainly closed to
researchers. Chinese historians have made some im-
portant breakthroughs, but can discuss their findings
only with small groups of peers.

The Communist Party's refusal to come to terms with
the crimes of the Mao era has enabled a revival of
the former leader's personality cult that has captured
the support of millions of Chinese. As Jamil Anderlini
wrote in the Financial Times, Mao has come to be
seen as a symbol of a “simpler, fairer society—a time
when everyone was poorer but at least they were
equally poor.””” Xi and his colleagues have actively
promoted Maoist images, songs, and propaganda
themes as ornaments of Chinese nationalism, and
used Mao-style tactics and terminology in their drive
for ideological discipline and political loyalty.

The melding of nationalism and reverence for Mao is
no accident. According to the regime's updated histor-
ical narrative, China was subjugated by foreign powers
for more than a century until the party took power in
1949 and restored the country’s national greatness.
Admitting Mao's abuses would mean admitting that
the first three decades of Communist rule left China
poor, isolated, and traumatized, and that only the
partial abandonment of party doctrine and control
allowed the country to prosper.

A side effect of the party's appropriation of Chinese na-
tionalism is a renewed hostility toward the foreign pow-

ers that kept China weak before Communist rule. Basic
history textbooks—in addition to omitting or distorting
the mistakes, failures, and criminal acts of the Commu-
nist leadership—focus on China's persecution at the
hands of outsiders, especially Japan. Some Chinese
critics worry that the teaching of history is cultivating
an alarming degree of xenophobia and jingoism.”°

History held hostage

In much of the world today, there are or have been
major efforts to confront uncomfortable truths

about the past. This is certainly true of Germany and
South Africa. Latin American countries like Chile and
Argentina have probed the histories of ugly conflicts
between military juntas and Marxist revolutionaries. In
China's own backyard, South Korea and Taiwan have
moved to address the complex legacies, including
outright crimes, of dictators.

The process of accounting for the mistakes and
crimes of earlier decades can raise a tangle of ethical
and emotional challenges in any country. But resis-
tance to a full examination of the past is especially
bitter in societies where communism held sway. In
China, the heirs of Mao still control the state, and the
very legitimacy of the system is built on a veneration
of the Great Helmsman. In Russia, the Putin leader-
ship praises the achievements of Stalin and aspires to
the superpower status of the Soviet Union. A conse-
quence of this ahistorical nostalgia is that in Russia
today, 26 percent of those polled by Levada believe
that Stalinist repression was necessary; a decade
ago, the figure was just 9 percent. Likewise, only 45
percent told Levada that political persecution was a
crime; in 2007, the figure was 72 percent.”

The communist system was responsible for four of

the most destructive episodes of the 20th century:
Stalin’s purges, the Great Leap Forward, the Cultural
Revolution, and the Cambodian genocide. Add to this
the persecutions inflicted on the people of the Baltic
states, Eastern Europeans, Cubans, North Koreans,
and many others, and the population affected by mass
killings and misery swells even further. While few peo-
ple today admire totalitarian Marxism as a governing
system, there is a reluctance to reject it with the same
moral clarity as in assessments of Nazism. Scholars,
not to mention political figures, who express even mod-
est admiration for Hitler are immediately and properly
condemned. As long as Stalin and Mao, two of history's
worst mass murderers, escape similar opprobrium in
their own countries, a reckoning with historical truth
and an understanding of its lessons will be postponed.

www.freedomhouse.org

33

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019267
