CKRE
API

LG
TAL

A
Cc CHAPTER IX Cannabis Industry Risk Factors

¢ There is currently a lack of broad interstate reciprocity with respect to cannabis laws.

¢ Even in states where cannabis is legal under state law, local jurisdictions may impose bans or
restrictions that materially interfere with or effectively prevent the operation of cannabis busi-
nesses within their boundaries.

Risks Related to the Manufacture and Sale of Cannabis Products

¢ Cannabis companies are exposed to various product liability claims associated with human con-
sumption of cannabis products, including claims that products cause injury, illness, possible side
effects or interactions with other substances, or that products include inadequate instructions for
use or warnings concerning health risks.

* Cannabis companies may be subject to product recalls for a variety of reasons, including product
defects, such as contamination. Such recalls may result in financial burdens and reputational
harm and may subject cannabis companies to increased regulatory scrutiny.

* Consumer perception of cannabis products can be significantly influenced by scientific research
or findings, regulatory investigations, litigation, media attention and other publicity regarding
the consumption of cannabis. Any unfavorable developments in these areas could have a material
adverse effect on the demand for cannabis products in general or on the products or prospects of
a particular company.

Risks Related to Early-Stage Cannabis Companies

* Most cannabis companies are in early stages of development and have limited operational his-
tory, so it is difficult to accurately predict and forecast their business operations. Many cannabis
companies will fail.

¢ The success of many early-stage cannabis companies is premised on receiving and maintaining
the licenses, permits and regulatory approvals required for their proposed cannabis activities.
Many of such companies will not receive or maintain such licenses, permits and approvals or may
be able to do so only at significant expense.

* Cannabis companies’ access to the capital required to grow and to finance ongoing operations
involves challenges particular to the industry's uncertain and rapidly evolving legal landscape.
Many early-stage companies in the cannabis industry will not be able to obtain the requisite
capital or will run out of capital prior to reaching profitability.

° Early-stage cannabis companies may experience unexpected problems in the areas of product
development and quality, manufacturing, marketing and general management, which, in some
cases, cannot be adequately solved. Companies may also be subject to product pricing and cost
pressures and to claims of intellectual property infringement.

© 2017 Ackrell Capital, LLC | Member FINRA/SIPC 167

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024803
