these reform efforts. These leaders need and deserve active, engaged
US support. Yet America’s recent retreat from the region, following
clumsy attempts at nation building, has destabilized and discouraged
its allies.

Iran is supporting militias in Iraq, Syria and Yemen whose stated
purpose is to eradicate Israel. That threat may create what has been a
previously unthinkable alliance between our Gulf Cooperating Council
partners and Israel. It’s in the interest of all these allies, including
Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Palestine, other GCC members, along with Israel,
to join forces. That alliance would provide a countervailing balance to
the Revolutionary Guard in Iran, the ISIS caliphate and the aggressive
aspiration of Turkey, which is further fueled by a renewed Russian
push.

The competition for a caliphate has more contestants than just Iran,
including ISIS, of course, as well as Turkey, and the Muslim
Brotherhood. As the US withdraws, Russia is taking its place as the
non-Arab power player in the Middle East. The chill in US-Russia
relations has left President Putin free to defy Washington. Without
predictable US-support, our allies may have only one direction to turn
as Russia capitalizes on every USA misstep in the region.

The emerging alliance between Putin and Turkey’s Erdogan has
evolved in perfect Kissingerian fashion; sovereign relationships can be
as ephemeral as their counterparties’ interests. And now that Russia
and Turkey seem to have a growing relationship, a counterbalancing
alignment needs to be crafted between the GCC and the Arab nations.

The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has been our longest and strongest ally
and, to many Westerners’ amazement, it is impossible for the US to
move against any hostile Islamic group anywhere in the world without
Saudi support. Almost two billion Muslims look to Mecca and Medina
as their spiritual heartland and challenging any faction of Islam
without the support of its guardian, Saudi Arabia, would be foolhardy.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031721
