Risk-averse clients in the omnibus fund can take short legs, and risk-tolerant ones
long legs. Management of the omnibus fund can handle the mechanics of the swaps

or futures.

The effect would be not less leverage per se, since leverage at the individual account
level is substituted for leverage at the corporate level. The difference is duration.
Swaps and futures are short-term commitments. Three months is typical. Futures
trade in active markets, for good measure, and can usually be liquidated in seconds

at current market during trading hours. So can ETFs themselves.
What do these derivatives cost? Essentially nothing. Those who prefer safety and
the short leg are matched with those who prefer return and the long leg, while the

manager charges only for its time in working the mechanics.

What About Asset Allocation?

Where the omnibus fund seems to violate common sense is in merging out what had
seemed to be valuable distinctions. So it would seem with the blending of equity and
debt claims, but for an optional overlay of derivatives such as futures to restore
whatever risk and expected return we want. Many distinctions blended out,
including that one, have been important to principles of asset allocation and modern
portfolio theory. They are important because some investment sectors are less
correlated than others, meaning less likely to risk and fall in lockstep. Low-
correlation portfolios are better because less volatile as a whole without sacrifice of
return. That’s why hedge funds typically assemble portfolios judged low or negative
in correlation, and then try to reduce correlation still further with an overlay of

derivatives. The omnibus fund seems to throw away all these options.

Not really. One of the lessons of the 2008 crash is that everything but Treasuries
tends to go down in high winds. Anti-correlation strategies failed when we most
needed them. The omnibus fund isn’t really giving up so much. Its exceptional

diversity makes it begin with less correlation than specializing portfolios. And

Chapter 8 Banks, Money and Macroeconomics 2/8/16 5

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011094
