My purpose in this analysis of the firm has been to derive equations valid for any
capital of either factor. The firm is a good model for several reasons. Its accounting
traditions are centuries old, and have been well thought through. It is rich in
possibilities because it has to be. It must describe firms of many kinds. It must allow
for contingencies whether or not they apply. For many simple assets, say the firm’s
shares as opposed to itself, revenue and positive cash flow can be the same. But the
complexity and versatility of the firm itself, and the person-likeness added by its

internal management, make it a useful model for any and all capital of either factor.
Not that I claim to follow accounting tradition closely, or even to understand it
closely. | am even less an accountant than an economist. My terms and concepts

tend to be idiosyncratic. The main thing is for the logic to hold together.

Human Capital by Analogy to the Firm

It is reasonable to define pay as the revenue of human capital. Earned revenue for
the firm is typically less than revenue. There are prior claims to offset contribution
by worker and suppliers. The counterpart in human capital, I said in Chapter 2, is
maintenance consumption. | believed for years that this cost counted as a prior

claim on pay, just as with the firm. ] may have been the only person to think so since
Quesnay and the physiocrats, although Mill and Sraffa might be interpreted that way.
But who has thought what doesn’t matter. Quesnay’s idea is a mathematical

possibility that must be addressed. I’ll get there soon.

Human capital is inalienable. That means that its decapitalization simplifies to
human depreciation. The firm’s added possibilities of depletion and liquidation
don’t apply. The output of human capital is called work. Then (6.1) through (6.8),

applied to human capital, give

earned revenue = pay - prior claims
= gross realized work
= realized work + recovered human depreciation. (6.15)

Chapter 6: Parallels with the Firm 2/4/16 9

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011043
