Freedom House

deals honestly with the people, and a country that
lives at peace with its neighbors.

The Ukraine factor

The falsification of history that began during the early
years of Putin's leadership has been intensified in the
wake of the invasion of Ukraine and seizure of Crimea
in 2014. To convince the Russian people that waging
a form of low-intensity warfare against a neighbor was
justified, Putin has stepped up efforts to depict the
West as antagonistic to Russian interests, launched

a campaign to label those responsible for Ukraine's
Maidan uprising as fascists, driven home the idea that
ethnic Russians living outside the Russian Federation
were under relentless persecution, and identified
Russian critics of aggression against Ukraine as a
treasonous fifth column.

A recurring theme of post-Crimea propaganda is the
notion that Russia faces the same threats from the
West today as it did during the Cold War. To make this
point, Russian television aired a documentary meant to
justify one of the more shameful events of the Soviet
period, the 1968 Soviet-led Warsaw Pact intervention in
Czechoslovakia. The invasion was undertaken to crush
the reformist Prague Spring movement, whose leaders
were moving increasingly in the direction of jettisoning
state socialism, embracing democratic reforms, and
seeking a kind of neutral geopolitical status much like
that enjoyed at the time by Austria. The documentary
used archival footage to build a concocted case that
the invasion was necessary to thwart a NATO-inspired
coup in Prague.'° The clear purpose of the film was to
portray NATO as a permanent threat to Russian inter-
ests, as much in 2014 as in 1968.

Another television documentary focused on the sei-
zure of Crimea, a year after the event. As Lucian Kim
has noted, the program is something of a celebration
of the tactics of dictatorship. The filmmakers offer no
conflicting opinions and present American leaders
as puppet masters. Among other claims, the docu-
mentary asserts that Washington gave the Maidan
forces information about Ukrainian security methods
that American officials had obtained during bilateral
exchange programs with the Kyiv government. !%

To further bolster the case for the invasion of Ukraine,
the Russian propaganda machinery devoted great
energy to demonstrating the fascist nature of the
Maidan, relying heavily on invocations of Soviet
history. The Ukrainian protesters and activists who
helped drive out corrupt president Viktor Yanukovych,

and the European-oriented politicians who replaced
him, were repeatedly labeled as present-day followers
of Stepan Bandera, a controversial nationalist leader
who fought the Soviets and at times cooperated with
the Nazis in a doomed campaign for an independent
Ukraine during World War II. Russian media presented
Bandera and his followers as unambiguous allies of
the Nazis, and highlighted their wartime atrocities.
Russian media also featured a number of documenta-
ries that emphasized Russian, as opposed to Soviet,
resistance to Hitler. The objective was to equate
contemporary Ukrainians who favored full sovereignty
and independence from Russian influence with Nazi
collaborators and pogromists. This served not only

to explain Moscow's response, but also to deter any
emulation of the Maidan protests in Russia itself.

The assault on academic freedom

Since the occupation of Crimea and invasion of east-
ern Ukraine, it has become increasingly dangerous
to express dissenting views on Russian foreign policy
in Russias schools and universities. Putin mace the
point quite clearly in a speech before the parliament
in March 2014, when he referred to a “fifth column”
and a “disparate bunch of national traitors” sowing
discord within Russia.®

In the ensuing months, anyone criticizing Russian pol-
icy risked the label of foreign agent, which in Russian
usage is tantamount to being called a spy. Around

this time a new website called Predatel (traitor) began
listing alleged traitors, specifically those who had
criticized Russia's annexation of Crimea or supported
sanctions against Russian officials. The site encour-
aged Russians to send in the names of other traitors.

Meanwhile, a number of educators fell afoul of the

new policies on the teaching of history. In March 2014,
Andrey Zubov, who held a position at the Moscow State
Institute of International Relations, was fired for “an im-
moral act—namely an article he published in the news-
paper Vedomosti that criticized the seizure of Crimea
and compared it to Hitler's annexation of Austria. “We
must not behave the way the Germans once behaved,
based on the promises of Goebbels and Hitler,” he
wrote. The university's explanation claimed that Zubov's
writings “contradict Russias foreign policy and inflict
careless, irresponsible criticism on the actions of the
state.”’ In a similar incident, senior sociologist Aleksan-
dr Konkov was let go by Sakhalin State University after
declaring that Russia had seized Crimea opportunisti-
cally because Ukraine was weak, not because Crimeans
themselves had clamored for the takeover.!®

www.freedomhouse.org

31

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019265
