Moroccan security forces have accused the 20 February movement—which is demanding constitutional reforms—of
violating the law, claiming that the movement has become an umbrella cover for extremists, from the left and right, who are
calling for the downfall of the regime. Officials have, however, denied allegations that the government has decided to forbid
the movement from protesting.

Bahrain

Sources suggest that the opposition plans to resume protests for democratic reforms as soon as the emergency law is lifted
on June 1.

According to reports, Saudi officials have approached Pakistan, Malaysia, Indonesia, and Central Asian states to lend
diplomatic support and, possibly, military assistance to the Gulf Cooperation Council's presence in Bahrain. Saudi national
security adviser, Prince Bandar bin Sultan, has reportedly asked for Pakistani support in Bahrain, including the possible
integration of Pakistani troops into the approximately 4000 Saudis already posted there. Malaysia has already indicated its
willingness to send troops to Bahrain.

Saudi Arabia

Protesters in eastern Saudi Arabia, an area mostly populated by Saudi Shiites, believed their movement would spread to
other parts of the country, but the protests remained confined to the East. The youth movement ended its protests there,
following pressure from community elders and the arrests of 150 demonstrators. Activists believe that the protests for
democratic reforms and an end to sectarian discrimination will eventually resume. Riyadh remains concerned that Iran is
manipulating Shiite sentiments and the desire for reforms in order to further lranian foreign policy objectives.

Manal al-Sharif—an information technology expert—was detained for five days on Sunday on charges of disturbing public
order. Sharif was arrested while driving in the eastern city of Dammam with her brother sitting next to her, challenging the
law that forbids Saudi females from driving.

Her arrest has been highlighted on both Facebook and Twitter, with a call to Saudi women to drive en masse on June 17.
The campaign has so far attracted 12,000 followers on Facebook. Saudi Arabia is the only country that forbids women from
driving. The Saudi government wants to prevent the rise of a movement, using social media having observed similar protest
movements in other Arab states. An online petition to free Sharif, addressed to King Abdullah, has attracted more than 600
signatures by both men and women.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031331
