298 16 AGI Preschool

16.5 Beyond Preschool

Once an AGI passes preschool, what are the next steps? There is still a long way to go, from
preschool to an AGI system that is capable of, say, passing the Turing Test or serving as an
effective artificial scientist.

Our suggestion is to extend the school metaphor further, and make use of existing curricula
for higher levels of virtual education: grade school, secondary school, and all levels of post-
secondary education. If an AGI can pass online primary and secondary schools such as e-
tutor.com, and go on to earn an online degree from an accredited university, then clearly said
AGI has successfully achieved “human level, roughly humanlike AGI.” This sort of testing is
interesting not only because it allows assessment of stages intermediate between preschool and
adult, but also because it tests humanlike intelligence without requiring precise imitation of
human behavior.

If an AI can get a BA degree at an accredited university, via online coursework (assuming
for simplicity courses where no voice interaction is needed), then we should consider that AT to
have human-level intelligence. University coursework spans multiple disciplines, and the details
of the homework assignments and exams are not known in advance, so like a human student
the AGI team can’t cheat.

In addition to the core coursework, a schooling approach also tests basic social interaction
and natural language communication, ability to do online research, and general problem solving
ability. However, there is no rigid requirement to be strictly humanlike in order to pass university
classes.

Most of our concrete examples in the following chapters will pertain to the preschool context,
because it’s simple to understand, and because we feel that getting to the “AGI preschool
student” level is going to be the largest leap. Once that level is obtained, moving further
will likely be difficult also, but we suspect it will be more a matter of steady incremental
improvements — whereas the achievement of preschool-level functionality will be a large leap
from the current situation.

16.6 Issues with Virtual Preschool Engineering

As noted above there are two broad approaches to realizing the “AGI Preschool” idea: using
the AGI to control a physical robot and then crafting a preschool environment suitable to the
robot’s sensors and actuators; or, using the AGI to control a virtual agent in an appropriately
rich virtual-world preschool. The robotic approach is harder from an AI perspective (as one must
deal with problems of sensation and actuation), but easier from an environment-construction
perspective. In the virtual world case, one quickly runs up against the current limitations
of virtual world technologies, which have been designed mainly for entertainment or social-
networking purposes, not with the requirements of AGI systems in mind.

In Chapter 9 we discussed the general requirements that an environment should possess to be
supportive of humanlike intelligence. Referring back to that list, it’s clear that current virtual
worlds are fairly strong on multimodal communication, and fairly weak on naive physics. More
concretely, if one wants a virtual world so that

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013214
