Preface

This is a large, two-part book with an even larger goal: To outline a practical approach to
engineering software systems with general intelligence at the human level and ultimately beyond.
Machines with flexible problem-solving ability, open-ended learning capability, creativity and
eventually, their own kind of genius.

Part 1, this volume, reviews various critical conceptual issues related to the nature of intel-
ligence and mind. It then sketches the broad outlines of a novel, integrative architecture for
Artificial General Intelligence (AGT) called CogPrime ... and describes an approach for giving a
young AGI system (CogPrime or otherwise) appropriate experience, so that it can develop its
own smarts, creativity and wisdom through its own experience. Along the way a formal theory
of general intelligence is sketched, and a broad roadmap leading from here to human-level arti-
ficial intelligence. Hints are also given regarding how to eventually, potentially create machines
advancing beyond human level — including some frankly futuristic speculations about strongly
self-modifying AGI architectures with flexibility far exceeding that of the human brain.

Part 2 then digs far deeper into the details of CogPrime’s multiple structures, processes and
functions, culminating in a general argument as to why we believe CogPrime will be able to
achieve general intelligence at the level of the smartest humans (and potentially greater), and
a detailed discussion of how a CogPrime-powered virtual agent or robot would handle some
simple practical tasks such as social play with blocks in a preschool context. It first describes
the CogPrime software architecture and knowledge representation in detail; then reviews the
cognitive cycle via which CogPrime perceives and acts in the world and reflects on itself; and
next turns to various forms of learning: procedural, declarative (e.g. inference), simulative and
integrative. Methods of enabling natural language functionality in CogPrime are then discussed;
and then the volume concludes with a chapter summarizing the argument that CogPrime can
lead to human-level (and eventually perhaps greater) AGI, and a chapter giving a thought
experiment describing the internal dynamics via which a completed CogPrime system might
solve the problem of obeying the request “Build me something with blocks that I haven’t seen
before.”

The chapters here are written to be read in linear order — and if consumed thus, they tell
a coherent story about how to get from here to advanced AGI. However, the impatient reader
may be forgiven for proceeding a bit nonlinearly. An alternate reading path for the impatient
reader would be to start with the first few chapters of Part 1, then skim the final two chapters of
Part 2, and then return to reading in linear order. The final two chapters of Part 2 give a broad
overview of why we think the CogPrime design will work, in a way that depends on the technical

vil

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012903
