Location Overview

Saint Thomas is an island in the Caribbean Sea -
directly east of Puerto Rico. Together with St. John and
Water Island, St. Thomas forms a county and constituent
district of the United States Virgin Islands (USVI), an
unincorporated territory of the United States. Located . :
on the island of Saint Thomas is the territorial capita = = ; - = er? 2 Soca
and port of Charlotte Amalie. As of the 2010 census, the :
population of Saint Thomas was 51,634 about 48.5% of
the US Virgin Islands total. The district has a land area of
31.24 square miles.

i

In 1917, St. Thomas was purchased (along with Saint
John and Saint Croix) by the United States for $25
million in gold, as part of a defensive strategy to
maintain control over the Caribbean and the Panama
Canal during the First World War. U.S. citizenship was
granted to the residents of St. Thomas in 1927 and the
U.S. Department of the Interior took over administrative
duties in 1931. American forces were based on the island
during the Second World War and the 1954, passage
of the U.S. Virgin Islands Organic Act officially granted
territorial status to the three islands - St. Thomas, St.
John, and Water Island.

St. Thomas

. Thomas has a lively tourist trade. It is the USVI’s most
osmopolitan island, yet it still retains the distinctive
tmosphere of a secluded Caribbean paradise. St.
omas is packed with many tourism activities including
hopping, sailing, snorkeling, sightseeing, diving and
ining. The Island is home to a world-renowned golf
ourse, picture-perfect beaches and a spectacular
nightlife. Other attractions are the Skyride (700 feet
above the city) and the famous 99 Steps of Charlotte
Amalie for an incomparable view of the Caribbean, as
well as the second-oldest synagogue in the Western
Hemisphere, the 1680-built Fort Christian.

aaYVYADMDAN

St. Thomas is developed with many hotels offering a
variety of lodging alternatives from grand resort estates
to small inns and villas. It is also a destination for many
Caribbean cruises due to the Island's breathtaking views,
secluded beaches and a deeply relaxing atmosphere.

St. Thomas

Page 15 GSA Investment & Acquisition Opportunity | St Thomas, USVI Stan Johnson Company | THE NET LEASE AUTHORITY®

®

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018741
