EDWARD WILSON

Edward Osborne Wilson is a world leading biologist
and internationally recognized as one of the planet’s
most articulate authorities on the interrelatedness
of knowledge disciplines and of life systems.

He is acknowledged for two interdisciplinary
scientific disciplines (island biogeography and
sociobiology), three unifying concepts for science and
the humanities jointly (biophilia, biodiversity studies,
and consilience), and one technological advance in the
study of global biodiversity (the Encyclopedia of Life).

Anative of Alabama, Wilson grew up in Mobile
and received his bachelor’s and master’s degrees in biology
from The University of Alabama (1949, 1950) and his
doctoral degree in biology from Harvard University (1955).

Wilson has received more than 100 awards for
his research on ants and biodiversity and for his writings
addressed to both scientific and non-scientific audiences.
He has received two Pulitzer Prizes in general non-fiction
for his books On Human Nature (1979) and The Ants (1991);
the Crafoord Prize from the Royal Swedish Academy of
Sciences; the International Prize of Biology of Japan; and the
Nonino and Serono Prizes for Letters and Sciences of Italy.

His work in the sciences, letters, the environment
and conservation earned him prominence in the annals of the
21st Century. He was named one of the 25 most influential
Americans by Time magazine and one of the world’s 100
leading intellectuals by Foreign Policy magazine. He is the
author of 28 books including the recent novel, Anthill, set in
the woods of South Alabama; The Social Conquest of Earth;
the soon-to-be-released profile of his boyhood hometown,
Why We Are Here: Mobile and the Spirit of a Southern City.

DAMIAN WOETZEL

Damian Woetzel was a Principal Dancer at New York City
Ballet and frequently performed internationally as a guest
star and visiting artist with numerous companies including
the Kirov Ballet and American Ballet Theatre, until his
retirement from the stage in 2008. Woetzel currently serves
as the Director of Arts Programs for the Aspen Institute, the
Artistic Director of the Vail International Dance Festival,
and as the Founding Director of the Jerome Robbins New
Essential Works Program. Woetzel is also active as a director
and producer outside these roles. Among his recent projects,
Woetzel produced and directed an arts salute to Stephen
Hawking at Lincoln Center for the World Science Festival,
and directed the first performance of the White House Dance
Series, which took place in the East Room of the White House
and was hosted by First Lady Michelle Obama. Woetzel also
works with Yo-Yo Ma on his Silk Road Connect program in
the New York City Public Schools, and has twice directed
culminating year-end performances; at the Museum of Natural
History in 2010, and for the Central Park SummerStage series
in 2011. Woetzel was appointed to the President’s Committee
on the Arts and Humanities by President Obama in 2009. In
July 2012, Woetzel was honored with the inaugural Gene Kelly
Legacy Award—an award jointly created by the Dizzy Feet
Foundation and the Estate of Gene Kelly in honor of the 100th
anniversary of Kelly’s birth—for his contributions to the arts as
a ballet star and director of dance and music performances.

In June 2011, Woetzel was named the Director
of Arts Programs at the Aspen Institute. Under Woetzel’s
direction, the Aspen Institute Arts Program brings together
leading artists, arts managers, sponsors, government officials

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017563
