SECTION 5

Think Tanks

Think tanks play an unparalleled role in shaping American public opinion, media
narratives, and US government policy. For this reason, they are high-value targets for
lobbying and influence activities by foreign governments and nongovernmental actors,
including those from the People’s Republic of China.

Think tanks in the United States date to the early twentieth century, when industrial
capital and private philanthropy (led by the likes of Andrew Carnegie, John D. Rockefeller,
Andrew W. Mellon, and Henry Ford) began to endow private nonprofit research
institutions at a time when there was increasing government demand for expertise on
a growing range of public policy issues. Over the past century, think tanks have come
to play ever more vital roles in the American public policy process, and they contribute
both directly and indirectly to public education, a richer public dialogue via the
media, greater civic engagement, and better-informed government policy formulation.

Of the approximately 1,800 think tanks in the United States today, about half are
research institutions located within US universities. For the purpose of this section,
however, only those think tanks located in nonuniversity private sector settings are
considered. Most of these think tanks and research institutions enjoy tax-exempt
status under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, which stipulates that
they are restricted from legislative lobbying as “action organizations.” Institutions that
receive this tax-exempt status must either be charitable philanthropic organizations or
research organizations (think thanks) that operate in a supposedly nonpartisan way
and in the general public interest. Because they are largely privately funded through
donor contributions, US think tanks compete tenaciously for support, professional
expertise, and public impact.

Roles of Think Tanks in American Society

The universe of think tanks in the United States is very diverse, and each think tank
performs different missions for different audiences and clients through different means
of output. Four roles are especially relevant to discussions of Chinese interest and
potential influence seeking.

The first and most important role is educating the public and better informing the

“policy community.” The majority of mainstream think tanks consciously perform
these functions through a variety of mechanisms: publishing books, articles in

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020516
