up and down voltage of brain waves, the pendulum swings of our blood hormone
levels, the cyclic procession of our days, months and years and at large scale, our

body’s journey from dust to dust.

The angular deviation theta, 8 from the initial reference direction of a single
moving sphere, gets rotated to a new angle theta, 9 8 by a collision with another
sphere. It has been shown that the new angle 0 is the previous angle, _ times twice
the average distance traveled between collisions called the mean free path, here
symbolized by delta, 6, divided by the diameter, D, of the sphere. Algebraically,

0-—0 the new angle is equal to twice the mean free path divided by the diameter

of the spheres times the original directional angle of the sphere’s motion. If we
symbolize the time between collisions with tau, 1, after an elapsed time of

experimental observation, tf, we can say that the deviations from the initial direction

of the sphere changes like (a The exponent, t/, represents the time of the

experimental observation divided by the average time between collisions of the
spheres, i.e. the time we’ve been watching, ft, is expressed as units of inter-collision
interval, t. Of course, the circular deviation in the angle from the initial direction
rotates repeatedly around a circle as the number of collisions increase. If a point on
a circle marks the angular change resulting from each collision and the system runs
long enough, it has been shown that the circle will eventually be completely covered

by points.

An estimate of the entropy, S, being generated by each sphere labeled with
some index i, Si, is positive because the recurrent motion is deviating continuously

from the initial direction. It can be computed for each sphere as the /ogarithm of the
intercollision time-averaged deviation from the initial direction, S; = “loe(=>) and the
T

entropy of the whole n hard sphere system is the sum of the n entropies, which can
be expressed as nxS;. If we keep books by registering the points when each
sphere’s makes a stop on the top half of the sphere’s circle as 1 and the bottom

half as O (and we must arbitrarily decide between 0 and 1 if it falls exactly on the

104

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013604
