I’m not justifying Vladimir Putin and the kleptocracy that he represents, because he
eventually is the state capitalist of kleptocracy. However, we the Judeo-Christian West
really have to look at what he’s talking about as far as traditionalism goes — particularly
the sense of where it supports the underpinnings of nationalism — and I happen to think
that the individual sovereignty of a country is a good thing and a strong thing. I think
strong countries and strong nationalist movements in countries make strong neighbors,
and that is really the building blocks that built Western Europe and the United States,
and I think it’s what can see us forward.

You know, Putin’s been quite an interesting character. He’s also very, very, very
intelligent. I can see this in the United States where he’s playing very strongly to social
conservatives about his message about more traditional values, so I think it’s something
that we have to be very much on guard of. Because at the end of the day, I think that Putin
and his cronies are really a kleptocracy, that are really an imperialist power that want to
expand. However, I really believe that in this current environment, where you're facing a
potential new caliphate that is very aggressive that is really a situation — I’m not saying
we can put it on a back burner — but I think we have to deal with first things first.
Questioner: One of my questions has to do with how the West should be responding to
radical Islam. How, specifically, should we as the West respond to Jihadism without
losing our own soul? Because we can win the war and lose ourselves at the same time.
How should the West respond to radical Islam and not lose itself in the process?
Bannon: From a perspective — this may be a little more militant than others. I think
definitely you’re going to need an aspect that is [unintelligible]. I believe you should take
a very, very, very aggressive stance against radical Islam. And I realize there are other
aspects that are not as militant and not as aggressive and that’s fine.

If you look back at the long history of the Judeo-Christian West struggle against Islam, I
believe that our forefathers kept their stance, and I think they did the right thing. I think
they kept it out of the world, whether it was at Vienna, or Tours, or other places... It
bequeathed to use the great institution that is the church of the West.

And I would ask everybody in the audience today, because you really are the movers and
drivers and shakers and thought leaders in the Catholic Church today, is to think, when
people 500 years from now are going to think about today, think about the actions you’ve

taken — and I believe everyone associated with the church and associated with the Judeo-

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029082
