written words cut the legs out of this account. Eberhardt’s results suggest that apes are associated with the
socio-cultural, racial category “Black.”

These findings reveal a deep seated, dehumanized representation that is readily triggered even in
highly educated people. But perhaps they are less disturbing then we might imagine. not so bad if the
take home message is that we are closet racists with antiquated theories of evolution or God’s design.
Outside of these artificial studies, we are well educated citizens who keep our isms tucked away, locked
up in our unconscious. Unfortunately, the unsettling feelings that many will have to these studies are
exacerbated by an additional set of results collected by Eberhardt, linking unconscious impressions to
harmful actions. Caucasian male subjects watched a video of a policeman using force to subdue a suspect
who was either Black or Caucasian. When primed with an ape drawing, but not that of a tiger, subjects
were more likely to say that the policeman was justified in subduing the Black suspect than the Caucasian
suspect. We are more than closet racists. We are out of the closet, armed for prejudice and
dehumanization.

To unconsciously think that Blacks are more like apes than other racial groups is to strip them of
characteristics that are uniquely human. As Haslam notes, when we dehumanize others in this particular
way, we no longer see them as human, but as incompetent wild animals or immature children lacking in
intelligence, etiquette, rationality, and moral wherewithal. This mode of dehumanization is ancient,
reflected in the writings and paintings of European explorers who encountered indigenous cultures in
Asia, Australia, and Africa. Dehumanizing others into objects is equally ancient, unflattering and
dangerous. In one study, American adults were told to focus on either the physical appearance or
personality of the actress Angelina Jolie and the ex-governor of Alaska and presidential hopeful Sarah
Palin — both famous personalities within the United States. When subjects focused on appearance as
opposed to personality, they judged both Jolie and Palin as relatively lacking in traits of experience or
human nature. Jolie and Palin were seen as objects. In other studies, carried out by Haslam, subjects
judged objectified men and women as less capable of suffering and less deserving of moral compassion
and protection, reinforcing the age old attitude we once held toward slaves, and that many hold today
toward prostitutes. When people become property, they fall outside of the circle of moral patients. Studies
of the brain provide further support for these dehumanizing transformations, and highlight, once again,

both the beneficial and malignant consequences of our mind’s promiscuity.

Brains without borders

Dehumanization enables doctors to treat their patients — human or nonhuman animal — as mechanical

Hauser Chapter 3. Ravages of denial 103

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012849
