sympathy and gave him my pity, believing this man had a heart. His next
proposal was eerie, he said,” If you wanted, I can be your new Daddy.
Someone to take care of you and you’ll be my new baby forever” he
stroked my hair such as a caring parent would comfort a scared child. A
part of me wanted to accept his words and believe he really could feel
that way, and then I also considered how hard it was living on the streets.
In the end I convinced myself this would be the lesser of two evils.

The car stopped at a plaza on the water, surrounded by little boutique
shops, restaurants, and little stalls with items for sale like sunglasses and
costume jewelry. I didn’t know what to say or do or how to act, it all
happened so fast I just went along with everything he said, for now.

We went to a take out restaurant and ate on the waterside, and
afterwards he took me to G.A.P Kids co. to dress me in his idea of proper
attire, tiny cutoff shorts revealing the cusp of my buttocks and some shirts
that barely fit, even the sales assistant was shocked at what she thought
was my Grandfathers choice in clothing. | couldn’t even believe it myself
only an hour ago | was begging for money living on the streets and now I
was dining alfresco and shopping at name brand outlets. We then hit a
couple of more specialty stores afterwards. He said he had to buy me a
few more necessities to start with. Lacy G-strings and what looked to me
like lingerie pieces I had only seen grown women wearing in magazine
ad’s or movies was now a part of my wardrobe, in my mind it was a big
step up from being a little girl any longer.

The driver took us back to Ron’s grand apartment overlooking the isle
of Key Biscayne and a large bridge leading into a Miami Harbor.
Entering his residence, { was blown away by the spectacular view, rich
décor, and white marble floors that were so glossy it looked as if 1 was
stepping on glass. He took my shopping bags to a large room at the back
of the apartment and put them into a small closet. The room was
considerably large with glass exterior walls that maximized the potential
of the panorama landscape soaking in the seascape of Miami. In the room
was a gigantic round bed raised off the floor by three steps and mirrors on
the ceiling. It looked like a honeymoon suite out of a raunchy hotel. He
then exclaimed, “This is my room here and you will be sharing it with
me” When I asked him where I would sleep he then sickly replied “With
me silly, where else of course?” With no room for argument I pretended
to be O.K with everything that my common sense was screaming out in
my head to run.

Next | was taken down a long hall at the other end of the apartment to
meet five more exotic beauties. Three girls were in their late teens and the
other two in were in their early twenties. All of them were from the
Czech, here under false passports provided by Ron and his contacts. Yana
held my hand while introducing me to the group of girls as “Baby” a pet

[) Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004136

name she came up with for me, being | was the youngest one among them
or ever to be brought in by Ron for that matter. It became my new
identity not even worrying to mention my real name to anyone anymore.
My identity was no longer important to myself, I wanted to become
someone new and “Baby” is who I was.

A shocking first impression, the girls were completely nude revealing
their voluptuous young bodies with such a careless ease and others were
in just a G-string, similar to the one’s Ron had bought me earlier. They
were all stunning girls and full of life. Charismatic and beautiful, they
were the girls who should be on the front of billboards not selling their
bodies to old crewed men for sex. Doing each other’s make-up in front of
the mirror and chatting away on the bed with no care in the world, aiming
at persuading me to see the highlights of the life Ron gave them and they
almost did. Ron left the room for a few moments, letting us all get to
know each other a little better and that’s when I started to compile an
understanding of what really went on here.

Just catching a bit of their conversation from before my introduction, |
heard them chatting about the night they were preparing for. Speaking
excitedly about some men they would be entertaining in a few hours, one
girl was talking about going out to sea with one o these clients on a yacht
for a few days. Since none of the girls seemed shy to talk about their
professions or anything for that matter, 1 decided to ask them a few
questions about what they did. They were more than happy to expand on
their point of view in the conversation, attempting to paint a pretty picture
of what they were paid to do.

They all began to jump up and down with excitement like giddy school
girls at a slumber party. Another girl with jet-black hair and a thick
accent, wearing absolutely nothing at all, grabbed me onto the bed with
them and into their fiasco, instantly making me feel accepted into their
sorority, like I actually belonged somewhere for once. Yana went on to
explain a little more in detail, “ We accompany the wealthy friends of
Ron. They want only beautiful girls by their side so we come and act
however they want us too but most importantly we make them think we
want them back too.” Other girls began to jump in with their vivid points
of view while playing with my hair, they were taking turns brushing and
styling it as they were filling my head with all of the prospects I could
have as an escort too. They made me feel beautiful like them, too
beautiful for what a girl beyond my years should feel. I was simply being
lured into a dangerous trap, just like they had been at a young age too.

It pretty much all came down to two things in their game, the money
they would make and the lifestyle they were given. Their enthusiasm only
interested me further, making it not only sound like an acceptable way of
living but also appearing to keep them all vivaciously satisfied. This way

\) Copyright Protected Material

GIULTREO04 137

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021146
