on this attorney Jack Goldberger, Harvard Law School Professor Alan Dershowitz,

who defended O.J. Simpson against murder charges, and Kenneth Starr, the

prosecutor who pursued then-President Bill Clinton for lying about sex with

young women.

Palm Beach police spent 11 months investigating Epstein before State Attorney Barry
Krischer sent the case to a grand jury, instead of charging Epstein so the man who once
boasted of accepting only billionaire clients could face a trial. The police had taken a high
school transcript, class schedules and phone messages from Epstein's home that showed.
he knew the girls were underage. Yet Mr. Krischer was more swayed by Epstein's
lawyers, who attempted to impugn the girls’ character by showing they had chatted on
myspace.com about smoking marijuana and drinking. He should have let a jury decide
whether the victims - and Epstein - were credible.

Ultimately, one charge against Epstein finally reflected the age of one victim, and the
plea agreement left Epstein labeled a sex offender. With that additional charge, if Epstein
had been convicted at a trial, he could have been sentenced to anything from probation to
15 years in prison, Assistant State Attorney Lanna Belohlavek said, adding that the
recommended guideline sentence was 21 months.

Epstein also won't have to certify to the court that he is receiving counseling, typically
required of sex offenders, because he has a private psychiatrist. But without court
supervision, who will ensure Epstein is in fact being treated?

The plea deal also drops a federal investigation of Epstein. If a federal investigation was
warranted, how does dropping it before completion benefit the public?

Epstein preyed on girls and denied it. For three years, his wealth and the influence of his
lawyers bought him the protection the state attorney owed to the victims.

New York Post — 07/27/2008

New York Post - New York, N.Y.

Date: Jul 27, 2006

Start Page: 014

Section: Page Six

Text Word Count: 395

IT looks like New York billionaire financier Jeffrey Epstein got off easy when he was hit
with a charge of soliciting a prostitute for a happy ending in Palm Beach.

Because if Palm Beach police had their way, Epstein, 53 - who surrendered last Sunday
and is out on $3,000 bail - might have been whacked with far more serious charges of
paying underage girls for sex.

But a state grand jury found the witnesses in the case were not credible and threw out all
but the single charge of soliciting a hooker in his luxurious Palm Beach home. Epstein's
lawyers and friends now say he's the hapless victim of a vendetta by Palm Beach Police
Chief Michael Reiter, whom they describe as a born-again nut case.

According to the police investigation, a copy of which was obtained by the Palm Beach
Post, detectives took statements from 17 witnesses and five alleged victims. Haley
Robson, 20, a Palm Beach Community College student who described herself as like a

Heidi Fleiss, says she got naked to give Epstein a massage, then brought him six girls

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021768
