Emerging market bonds

Preference: neutral

EMBI Global/CEMBI spread (24 Oct): 281bps / 334bps (last month: 292bps /363bps)
UBS View EMBI Global/CEMBI spread target (6-month): 275bps/290bps
¢ Current spread levels of EM sovereign bonds are roughly in line with fundamentals. We think valuations
of EM corporate bonds are more attractive than valuations of EM sovereign bonds. Additionally, the
gradual recovery in EM we expect over coming quarters should support the performance of EM corporate
bonds relative to EM sovereign bonds. Corporate bonds tend to outperform sovereign bonds during
periods of accelerating growth.
¢ However, absolute returns of EM bonds will be lower than in the past, we think, as the room for spreads
to tighten further has become more limited. We expect total returns of less than 2% for EM sovereigns
and close to 4% for EM corporate bonds over the next six months.
¢ Negative headlines from the Eurozone or global growth fears might put renewed short-term pressure on
EM bond prices. We think that periods of price weakness offer attractive entry points.

4 Positive scenario EMBI Global/CEMBI spread target (6-month): 235bps/230bps

¢ Yield stability in Europe's core markets and higher-than-expected growth in the US would provide a
favorable backdrop for EM fixed-income spreads. In such an environment, issuers of lower credit quality
would likely fare better. Average spreads could tighten to below 240bps in such an environment.

& Negative scenario EMBI Global/CEMBI spread target (6-month): 555bps/750bps

e An environment of renewed escalating risk aversion in Europe, deteriorating EM funding markets,
weakening global growth prospects, and lower commodity prices could impact EM credit negatively.
Liquidity in emerging market bonds could dry up and spreads could spike.

Note: Scenarios refer to global economic scenarios (see slide 7)

What we're watching Why it matters

Core market yields The direction of US Treasury and German Bund yields are important for EM fixed
income spreads, especially for USD- and EUR-denominated bonds.
Key date: Dec 6, European Central Bank meeting

Capital flows The European debt crisis may lead to further periods of outflows and weaker

prices, which could offer attractive entry levels for investors.

Monetary policy cycles | Monetary policy easing remains a key topic for local currency bonds. We look for
central bank policy announcements in key markets. Key policy rate

announcement dates: Nov 11, Indonesia; Nov 20, Turkey; Nov 22, South Africa;
Nov 30, Mexico

2 UBS

Recommendations

Tactical (6 months)

e EM corporate bonds are particularly
attractive due to their favorable
valuations, solid fundamentals, and
relatively short duration. We advise
clients to focus on investment grade
bonds in the current environment. We
recommend taking profit on selected EM
sovereign bonds. Please refer to our EM
bond list for issuer- and bond-specific
guidance.

Strategic (1 to 2 years)

e EM bonds are attractive for longer-term
investors looking for higher yields.

e Local markets in Asia offer interesting
opportunities for longer-term investors
because of a supportive currency outlook.

EM sovereigns relatively expensive
compared to EM corporates

Spreads of EM bonds over US Treasuries, in bps
600

500

Okt-09 Aor-10 Apr-11 Okt-11
— Emerging market sovereign bonds (EMBI Global}

Emerging market corporate bonds (CEMBI Broad)

Okt-10

Apr-12

Source: JP Morgan, UBS, as of 15 October 2012

Note: Past performance is not an indication of future returns.

For further information please contact ClO's asset class specialist Michael Bolliger, michael.bolliger@ubs.com and Kilian Reber, kilian.reber@ubs.com 28

Please see important disclaimer and disclosures at the end of the document.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025275
