5/29/2019 Opinion | Trump Hands China an Easy Win in the Trade War - The New York Times

Ehe New ork Gimes

Trump Hands China an Easy
Win in the Trade War

The president's tough rhetoric plays into Chinese economic
nationalism.

By Kevin Rudd

Mr. Rudd, a former prime minister of Australia, is the president of the Asia Society Policy
Institute.

May 29, 2019

When President Trump tweeted on May 5 that the China trade deal was off, the historical echoes
in Beijing were loud and clear. Almost exactly 100 years earlier, China’s “May Fourth Movement”
of 1919 was a direct response to the actions of President Woodrow Wilson at the end of World War
I. Wilson had promised China, an American ally, that German colonies in Shandong would be
returned to Chinese sovereignty, but instead handed them to Japan. China exploded with anti-
American, nationalist sentiment. One of the eventual consequences was the establishment of the
Chinese Communist Party, which for the last 70 years has ruled the country.

Thus, Mr. Trump has handed Xi Jinping a remarkably effective nationalist card to play at a time
when he has been under pressure at home because of a slowing economy. The Chinese media is
now full of accounts of the country’s economic resilience and appeals to patriotism, even invoking
the spirit of the Korean War, when, according to the official narrative, China was able to stare
down the vastly superior American military.

And just in case people didn’t get the point, Mr. Xi recently visited Jiangxi, the starting point of
the Long March in 1934, in which the Communist Party endured many hardships but ultimately
emerged victorious.

I can almost hear members of the Trump administration groaning. Why on earth would they need
to take into consideration events in China’s ancient past?

The answer depends on what Mr. Trump’s primary objective is. If it’s to sound tough to American
voters, he may well have a winning formula. But if it’s to bring about a substantive change in
China’s negotiating posture toward a bilateral trade agreement, one that might usher in changes
in China’s trade policy, addressing questions of forced technology transfers, intellectual property
theft, industrial subsidies, currency manipulation and a phalanx of other non-tariff barriers, I’m
not so sure.

https:/Avww.nytimes.com/2019/05/29/opinion/trump-china-trade-war.html 1/3

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_033365
