312 17 A Preschool-Based Roadmap to Advanced AGI

— Example task: If Ruiting is normally seen near Shuo, then if the robot knows where
Shuo is, that is where it should look when asked to find Ruiting

6. Planning

e Tactical
— Example task: The robot is asked to bring the red ball to the teacher, but the red
ball is in the corner where the robot can’t reach it without a tool like a stick. The
robot knows a stick is in the cabinet so it goes to the cabinet and opens the door
and gets the stick, and then uses the stick to get the red ball, and then brings the
red ball to the teacher.
e Strategic
— Example task: Suppose that Matt comes to the lab infrequently, but when he does
come he is very happy to see new objects he hasn’t seen before (and suppose the
robot likes to see Matt happy). Then when the robot gets a new object Matt has
not seen before, it should put it away in a drawer and be sure not to lose it or let
anyone take it, so it can show Matt the object the next time Matt arrives.
e Physical
— Example task: To pick up a cup with a handle which is lying on its side in a position
where the handle can’t be grabbed, the robot turns the cup in the right position
and then picks up the cup by the handle
® Social
— Example task: The robot is given a job of building a tower of blocks by the end of
the day, and he knows Ben is the most likely person to help him, and he knows that
Ben is more likely to say yes to helping him when Ben is alone. He also knows
that Ben is less likely to say yes if he’s asked too many times, because Ben doesn’t
like being nagged. So he waits to ask Ben till Ben is alone in the lab.

7. Attention

e Visual Attention within its observations of its environment
— Example task: The robot should be able to look at a scene (a configuration of objects
in front of it in the preschool) and identify the key objects in the scene and their
relationships.
e Social Attention
— Example task: The robot is having a conversation with Itamar, which is giving the
robot reward (for instance, by teaching the robot useful information). Conversations
with other individuals in the room have not been so rewarding recently. But Itamar
keeps getting distracted during the conversation, by talking to other people, or
playing with his cellphone. The robot needs to know to keep paying attention to
Itamar even through the distractions.
e Behavioral Attention
— Example task: The robot is trying to navigate to the other side of a crowded room
full of dynamic objects, and many interesting things keep happening around the
room. The robot needs to largely ignore the interesting things and focus on the
movements that are important for its navigation task.

8. Motivation

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013228
