The NSA‘s Back Door | 213

including the hacking culture. Ex-hackers who lacked (or shunned)
employment opportunities in the corporate sector were suitable
candidates for the system administrator jobs that these firms had
contracted to supply the NSA. In the rush to expand, little heed was
paid to the 1996 warning that this hacking culture might provide
a portal to anti-government hacktivist groups. The NSA became
so enamored with this new computer technology that it neglected
the security implications of employing outsiders to service it. “All
of us just fell in love with the ease and convenience and scale [of
electronic storage],” General Hayden, who headed the NSA at the
time, said to The Wall Street Journal in 2015. “So we decided to take
things we used to keep if not in a safe, at least in our desk drawer,
and put it up here [in a computer network], where it’s by definition
more vulnerable.” Making matters even worse, as has previously
been discussed, the NSA stripped away much of the so-called stove-
piping that insulated highly sensitive data from the NSA’s other
computer networks. FBI Director Mueller, in his “Statement Before
the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental

© Affairs,”described a decade of post—9/11 intelligence reorganization ©
thus: “One of the first steps was to centralize control and manage-
ment of counterterrorism operations at headquarters to avoid the
‘stove-piping’ of information on terrorism cases in the 56 individual
field offices across the country.” Here the NSA was merely following
the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission to make their data
more accessible to other agencies concerned with potential terrorist
attacks, but as a result, the inner sanctum of the NSA became more
open to its new army of civilian technicians.

By 2013, much of the job of managing the NSA’s classified com-
puters had been handed over to a handful of private companies: Booz
Allen Hamilton, which handled the most highly secret work; Dell
SecureWorks; Microsoft; Raytheon; and IBM. In many respects,
these five companies acted less like management consultants and
more like temporary employment agencies in finding for the NSA
the computer specialists who had the necessary security clearances.

The NSA found that the universe of independent contractors was
governed by very different considerations from that of intelligence
services. Unlike intelligence services, their fate depended on turning

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r.indd 213 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019701
