Contractor | 29

growing antagonism toward the U.S. government, he had not given
up on, if not becoming a secret agent, working in the netherworld of
secret intelligence.

There was still a back door through which he could reenter the
spy world. Private corporations hired civilian technicians to work
for spy agencies as independent contractors. By 2009, the CIA, the
NSA, and other U.S. intelligence services had outsourced much of
the job of maintaining and upgrading their computer systems to
these private companies. They supplied the NSA with most of its
system administrators and other information technology workers.
This arrangement allowed the NSA to effectively bypass budget
limits and other restrictions limiting how many NSA technicians
it could recruit. Instead of being on the NSA’s own payroll, these
people nominally worked for, and received their paychecks from,
private employers. In fact, many of these outside contractors worked
full-time for the NSA.

Snowden applied in April 2009 to one of these private compa-
nies, a subsidiary of the Dell computer company. To diversify out of

© manufacturing computers, Dell had recently gone into the business ©
of managing government computer systems for the NSA and other
intelligence services. As a leading specialist in the field of corporate
cyber security, Dell had no problem obtaining sizable contracts from
the NSA’s Technology Directorate. In 2008, the NSA had in effect
outsourced to Dell the task of reorganizing the backup systems at its
regional bases. Dell had to find thousands of independent contrac-
tors to work at these bases. In 2009, it was seeking to fill positions
at the NSA’s regional base in Japan, and Snowden applied. Relocat-
ing would be no issue for him because he had a longtime interest in
going to Japan.

He had little problem obtaining the job. He had a single compel-
ling qualification: like all other CIA officers, he had been given a
top secret clearance. For an outside contractor such as Dell, such a
security clearance was pure gold. If a potential recruit lacked it, Dell
needed to wait for a time-consuming background check that would
have to be conducted before it could deploy him or her at the NSA.
Ifa recruit already had the clearance, as Snowden did, he could begin
working immediately.

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 29 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019517
