Freedom House

Authoritarians on Color Revolutions

“In my opinion, everything that happened in
Ukraine shook Russia... Young people began
to discuss and think about Russias direc-
tion.”

—lvan Mostovich, press secretary of the pro-Kremlin youth
organization Nashi, April 2005

“We're only afraid these changes will be cha-
otic.... It'll be a banana republic where the one
who shouts loudest is the one who wins.”

—Vladimir Putin, President of Russia,
September 2005

“We have sympathy with [Arab governments]
because they did not read warnings that
they should have read. That things were
changing because of the wishes of their
people, and because of machinations of the
imperialists.”

—Robert Mugabe, President of Zimbabwe, June 2011

“It is hardly likely that the US will admit to
manipulating [Hong Kong's] ‘Occupy Central’
movement, just as it will not admit to manip-
ulating other anti-China forces. It sees such
activities as justified by ‘democracy,’ ‘free-
dom,’ ‘human rights’ and other values.”

—People’s Daily commentary, October 2014

role of the United States as puppet master. Yet neither
the Kremlin nor likeminded regimes have advanced
credible evidence that the various civic movements
were inauthentic. The American role in the Orange Rev-
olution of 2004-5, for example, was limited to funding
for voter training, upgrading of election technology,
and other measures designed to assist authorities in
ensuring fair balloting. There is no evidence of direct
American government help to the Orange forces. If the
United States influenced the eventual outcome, it did
so by making it more difficult for the Ukrainian authori-
ties to rig the election results.®

Strangled by law
Over the past decade there has been a steady stream

“Hostile forces have always attempted to
make Hong Kong the bridgehead for subvert-
ing and infiltrating mainland China... The il-
legal Occupy Central activities in 2014 came
as minority radical groups in Hong Kong,
under the instigation and support of external
forces ... orchestrated a Hong Kong version of
a color revolution.”

—Gen. Sun Jianguo, deputy chief of general staff, People's
Liberation Army, March 2015

“Various human rights organizations, think
tanks, and simple NGOs of the U.S. and its
allies in Europe, concealing their true goals,
have established a huge network of affiliates
around the world... It is they who act as the
‘fifth column.”

—Ramiz Mehdiyev, head of presidential administration,
Azerbaijan, December 2014

“The sides noted that Russia and China had
a common approach to the key problems

of regional and international security and
expressed readiness to counteract ‘color
revolutions... Russia and China suffered the
biggest losses during WWII and should be
resolutely opposed to any attempts to revive
fascism and falsify the results of the bloodi-
est conflict in human history.”

—Russian Security Council, statement on security consul-
tations with China, May 2015

of laws that restrict the funding and operations of

NGOs. While more than 50 countries have passed

such legislation, the most aggressive campaign to
bring civil society to heel through legal constraints
has been carried out by the Russian authorities.

There are 11 laws on the books in Russia that deal
solely with civil society organizations and another 35
that mention NGOs. Yet nowhere are NGOs defined.
This vagueness is deliberate. It gives officials the
discretion to decide which civil society organizations
should be prosecuted and harassed and which should
be left alone or encouraged. It enables them to penal-
ize, for example, a foundation that supports scientific

www.freedomhouse.org

25

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019259
