14.3 Derived Hypergraphs 273

corresponding to the presence of a certain pattern). The condition may refer to something in
the world external to the system, or to something internal. For instance, the condition may be
observing a cat. In this case, the corresponding Concept vertex in the mind of Ben Goertzel
is the pattern of activity observed in Ben Goertzel’s brain when his eyes are open and he’s
looking in the direction of a cat. The notion of pattern of activity can be made rigorous using
mathematical pattern theory, as is described in The Hidden Pattern [Goe(6al.

Note that logical predicates, on the SMEPH level, appear as particular kinds of Concepts,
where the condition involves a predicate and an argument. For instance, suppose one wants to
know what happens inside Ben’s mind when he eats cheese. Then there is a Concept correspond-
ing to the condition of cheese-eating activity. But there may also be a Concept corresponding
to eating activity in general. If the Concept denoting the activity of eating X is generally eas-
ily computable from the Concepts for X and eating individually, then the eating Concept is
effectively acting as a predicate.

A SMEPH SchemaVertex, on the other hand, is like a Concept that’s defined in a time-
dependent way. One type of Schema refers to a habitual dynamical pattern of activity occurring
before and/or during some condition is met. For instance, the condition might be saying the
word Hello. In that case the corresponding SchemaVertex in the mind of Ben Goertzel is the
pattern of activity that generally occurs before he says Hello.

Another type of Schema refers to a habitual dynamical pattern of activity occurring after
some condition X is met. For instance, in the case of the Schema for adding two numbers, the
precondition X consists of the two numbers and the concept of addition. The Schema is then
what happens when the mind thinks of adding and thinks of two numbers.

Finally, there are Schema that refer to habitual dynamical activity patterns occurring after
some condition X is met and before some condition Y is met. In this case the Schema is viewed
as transforming X into Y. For instance, if X is the condition of meeting someone who is not a
friend, and Y is the condition of being friends with that person, then the habitually intervening
activities constitute the Schema for making friends.

14.3.2 SMEPH Edges

SMEPH edge types fall into two categories: functional and logical. Functional edges connect
Schema vertices to their input and outputs; logical edges refer mainly to conditional proba-
bilities, and in general are to be interpreted according to the semantics of Probabilistic Logic
Networks.

Let us begin with logical edges. The simplest case is the Subset edge, which denotes a
straightforward, extensional conditional probability. For instance, it may happen that whenever
the Concept for cat is present in a system, the Concept for animal is as well. Then we would
say

Subset cat animal

(Here we assume a notation where “R A B” denotes an Edge of type R between Vertices A and
On the other hand, it may be that 50% of the time that cat is present in the system, cute is
present as well: then we would say

Subset cat cute <.5>

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013189
