Grant_Smith080178*eMailContent.htm

“Ask two people to listen to you in a discussion about a traffic accident and then write a summary. It is a
guaranteed they will have differences with each other as well as with you, the witness.

You said, Iam reasonably sure that the traffic light was green

ahi

One report takes out the equivocation and quotes you as saying: The light was green.

This brings us to Federal law 18 USC 1001. That statute makes it a felony to he to the government. And
_ guess who decides whether or not you were lying? The government.

So here is your conundrum. Do you testify about your doubts about the light, which is the truth, ordo

Whether or not the 302 discrepancies are a result of stupidity or cupidity makes no difference.
Testify in opposition to the 302 and you are in the crosshairs of the Feds.

If they believe your testimony cost them the case, the next thing you likely to hear from the FBI will be:
Please place your hands behind your back. .

--A number of years ago, fed up with the 302 Two Step, I turned the tables on them. —

In a high profile case, my client was asked to submit to an FBI interview at their offices in North Miami
Beach.

Feigning naivety, I asked where the court reporter was. I was told there was no court reporter.
I then asked where the tape recorder was.

_[ will always be impressed that the agent was able to give us the response he did without laughing. He
said the FBI could not tape the interview because they did not have enough money in their budget.”

It was time to play the Trump Card.

At that point, I removed a cassette recorder from my pocket and explained that my client had been able
to scrape together the 59 cents for a cassette tape. Further we would pay for the tape to be transcribed
and supply them with a free copy of everything.

- “You could've heard a fart in a vacuum.

They now made it clear that no way, no how would any FBI interview be recorded. So we went forward
with the interview as the agent took notes.

Months later the client was called to testify at trial.

_ T warned him the 302 would be a work of fiction. It was. I was sitting in the back of the courtroom.

file: IC YDoeuments%20und%420S ettngsTial/DeskioplE wuction/eDocs/eMail/Grant_Smith080178*eMailContent.htm (2 of 5) [11/6/2010 10:16:54 PM]
14546

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030946 —
