perfected a deft eye roll (referred to as the Anton eye roll). H. R. McMaster seemed to
wear a constant grimace and have perpetual steam rising from his bald head. (“What’s
wrong with him?” the president often asked.)

There was, of course, a higher rationale: the White House needed normal, sane, logical,
adult professionals. To a person, these pros saw themselves bringing positive attributes—
rational minds, analytic powers, significant professional experience—to a situation sorely
lacking those things. They were doing their bit to make things more normal and, therefore,
more stable. They were bulwarks, or saw themselves that way, against chaos,
impulsiveness, and stupidity. They were less Trump supporters than an antidote to Trump.

“Tf it all starts going south—more south than it is already going—I have no doubt that
Joe Hagin would himself take personal responsibility, and do what needed to be done,”
said a senior Republican figure in Washington, in an effort at self-reassurance, about the
former Bush staffer who now served as Trump’s deputy chief of staff for operations.

But this sense of duty and virtue involved a complicated calculation about your
positive effect on the White House versus its negative effect on you. In April, an email
originally copied to more than a dozen people went into far wider circulation when it was
forwarded and reforwarded. Purporting to represent the views of Gary Cohn and quite
succinctly summarizing the appalled sense in much of the White House, the email read:

It’s worse than you can imagine. An idiot surrounded by clowns. Trump won’t read
anything—not one-page memos, not the brief policy papers; nothing. He gets up
halfway through meetings with world leaders because he is bored. And his staff is
no better. Kushner is an entitled baby who knows nothing. Bannon is an arrogant
prick who thinks he’s smarter than he is. Trump is less a person than a collection of
terrible traits. No one will survive the first year but his family. I hate the work, but
feel I need to stay because I’m the only person there with a clue what he’s doing.
The reason so few jobs have been filled is that they only accept people who pass
ridiculous purity tests, even for midlevel policy-making jobs where the people will
never see the light of day. Iam in a constant state of shock and horror.

Still, the mess that might do serious damage to the nation, and, by association, to your
own brand, might be transcended if you were seen as the person, by dint of competence
and professional behavior, taking control of it.

Powell, who had come into the White House as an adviser to Ivanka Trump, rose, in
weeks, to a position on the National Security Council, and was then, suddenly, along with
Cohn, her Goldman colleague, a contender for some of the highest posts in the
administration.

At the same time, both she and Cohn were spending a good deal of time with their ad
hoc outside advisers on which way they might jump out of the White House. Powell could
eye seven-figure comms jobs at various Fortune 100 companies, or a C-suite future at a

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020023
