tax planing running out of time. .7 restructure office. barry? brad told me he thought you had
acknowledged high value this year. gift tax audit etc., . April, Oct. . returns. manage joslin , who is still
running your tax dept .

you and I need not rehash old postures, its tedious - I would ask that you tell me if you intend to pay for the
work that was done, and for the work you expect to be done, . thanks

Date: Tue, Nov 15, 2016 at 12:13 PM

Subject: Fwd:

To: Melanie Spinell

Leon, Congragulations on biting the bullet. at least 18 months late , but Im encouraged and glad for
you. When you interviewed Brad two years ago you asked that i not tell him what a disaster lay before
him. what would you like me to tell Barry?

There is a HUGE amount of work to be done in the next 9 -12 months. mostly the exact same work that i
outlined in my email of 2 years ago. now complicated by years of mess on top. ( you can send it again if you
like ). Brad wechsler was never up to the task . sorry, I realize I have been saying the very same thing for a
long time. he was a not a step up from Eileen but a step sideways. in the beginning there was Eileen and
Tom and Ralph Lerner. all your hand picks. then brad. john, Joe. . joslin was chosen from a pool of 2
people. each that would be limited by a salary of 250k. ( yes i personally augmented his comp in order to get
him ) I did say hire both Lisa to do the bookkeeping and joslin tax, | He complained for over a year , re his
direction by eileen and ada , and then brad. His breakdown was not a surprise after months and moths of
warnings. Though disabled, he ran your office this year. with john and joe. He ran amok, and as i told
you he rarely failed to remind me in our conversations that you told him that he works for you and not for
me and that brad needs to pays him .

. Asking me who to hire , estate attny tax people etc. :

I have taken heat for years over the fact that 1 gave you no more than carlyns name, . no follow up

questions no interactions , not even one single question asked of me re her work. (that was Eileen _) but
somehow carlyns fuck up was my doing. . _ when i told you that i thought Eileen wasn't up to the task, you
bellowed that i was talking out of both sides of my mouth. . You told me this year , that by trying to protect
you from crazy joslin, I had in essence fired him and it was my responsibility to do his work. it then turns out
that he didn't consider himself fired at all he just received less money. and continued to make a really
dangerous mess.. Joshn castrucci, in your eyes , was also my doing , though email after email said , I take no
responsibility for him,and 1YOU SHOULD NOT HIRE HIM |!!! , your response was that was my opinion
was only because i didn't trust him. then to add insult to injury last jan you told me he was gone. however he
too is still there, and a waste of money and space.

My time is complicated by Donald's potentially eviscerating any reason for anyone to use the foreign
funds repatriation plan that 1 had put together. . however as you are aware I have some decisions to make re
my time allocation in the next year or two. so at least for a few weeks I am unable to commit much time and
make any future plans to guide you in the redoing of your procrastination produced mess.

That being said, the tasks at hand are the following.

You have a bomb of colored string that your retarded children have formed , It has to be very carefully
unwound , even the substitution of Barry for your next trustee, needs a careful focus on procedure.s It would
be much preferable if Wechsler was not his replacement. do you have any person you trust ??!. Iam
concermed re brad taking barrys place re XXXX. In the beginning Barry will need to find and learn
ACCURATE .. org charts. books , balance sheets . trust valuations. are alla part. Barry will need 2 months
to just get his arm around what is there , this is before any needed modifications.,

a way overdue re- fresh of your estate plan. . clats , trust. partnerships. grats. Ilcs. bank accounts , filing
requirements. etc. the long awaited review of the brh tra and shareholders agreement to see how they fit into
new plan. . XXXXX planning. art partnership engagement .. , airplane re-do. , buying another. .? boat
sale , Miami sale. . TRADING ACCOUNTS. . three years overdue. . an accounting system. fire john
.. Joslin stays for a year. or so. so does tom and . except for heather everyone should be replaced with
new. . Sell Artspace and shut down regan arts. . rationalize. cash flow reporting. cash mgmt. stock

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023330
