¢ Another topic which AB elaborated on was fees/pricing particularly in the US retail
market. Peter Kraus commented that there is a very strong philosophical argument
for the regulators to approve new fee structures which would allow investors to pay
alow beta fee and a higher performance fee for alpha generated (while it exists in
Europe, a similar structure is not available in the U.S.). While some in the industry
may not be fans to adapt such a structure, given challenging cost structure changes,
he thinks the product could be much more competitive relative to passive products.

Alternative Asset Manager Top Takeaways
mice Management (ARES), C-2-7, Neutral

Michael Arougheti, Co-founder and President, presented for Ares. Overall, Mr.
Arougheti was positive on the firm’s growth prospects, given demand for their
products across the platform by institutional investors. In addition, given recent
fundraising and fees on the horizon, the outlook for FRE and DE is attractive.

e | When asked “What would get you more interested in investing in ARES stock?” the
most common response was a higher float and reduced tax complexity (64%),
followed by more diversification in the business model (21%), and confidence in an
attractive credit return outlook (14%). Investors were less concerned over the
visibility on the distribution (0%).

Chart 60: What would get you more interested in investing in ARES stock?

70%

60%

50%

40%

30%

20%

10%

0%

A higher float and Confidence inan More diversification in Increased visibility on
reduced tax complexity attractive credit return the business model the distribution
outlook

Source: BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research

¢ — If comprehensive tax reform includes an elimination of carried interest tax,
potentially moving to an ordinary income rate, it could have some impact to after
tax unitholder returns, but 80-90% of revenue comes from management fees and
much of the income already faces a corporate tax rate. It could make it more
attractive to shift to a C-corp. A change to the tax deductibility of interest expense
could have more far-reaching changes to the business, and to U.S.

« — Ares will always look to do tuck-in acquisitions, and has been doing almost one a
year. The pipeline of M&A opportunities continues to grow for ARES, given
demographics of principles with founders aging, and the environment becoming
harder to compete for small managers.

The Blackstone Group (BX), C-2-8, Neutral
« Jonathan Gray, Global Head of Real Estate, presented for Blackstone. Overall, Mr.
Gray was positive on the outlook for the U.S., with new pro-growth fiscal policies

Bankof America a 2016 Future of Financials Conference | 17 November 2016 41
Merrill Lynch

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014355
