Business Expansion Portfolio and Prospectus
Twin City Care of The Virgin Islands
9

At TCMIH “Quality” will be the benchmark for our day to day performance. We believe quality
can be measured in many ways, from customer service surveys, on time performance measures, to
clinical indicator reviews and run report accuracy just to name a few. To ensure that TCMIH
remains focused on providing exceptional patient care from the request for service on through to
the reimbursement cycle, we have established quality assurance processes to create a culture in
which quality, excellence and accuracy is our focus. To achieve this, each day we will look at the
transports from the previous day and review how we performed. We will measure our on-time
performance, looking at each run report line-by-line to ensure we have met our protocol
requirements. We will make certain the crews have gathered the appropriate information allowing
us to properly bill on behalf of the patients while maintaining compliance with all Medicare,
Medicaid and other healthcare regulations.

Medical Necessity

Health Insurance providers and Medicare in particular, have strict guidelines on what they will
cover and what is deemed as “medically necessary”.

For the service to be determined medically necessary, the patient’s medical condition at the time
of transport must be such that any other means of transportation would have placed the patient at
risk for harm or deterioration.

In addition, Medicare and Medicaid have guidelines requiring all non-emergency ambulance
transports from a hospital, nursing home, physician’s office, out-patient facility or clinic to obtain
a Physician’s Certification statement (PCS). We will collect this statement at the time the request
for service is received as part of our normal practice.

Stand By / Special Events
TCMIH will provide both committed and non-committed ambulance standby / first aid station

support during sporting events, community gatherings, concerts, fairs, parades, and other public
and private events.

Code of Conduct

TCMIH will attribute its success and reputation to the ethical standards that our employees will
set forth in their day-to-day actions. Healthcare is a challenging field of endeavor, yet we know
we must meet each challenge with the highest level of integrity and resolve, not with shortcuts.

Operational Code of Professional Conduct
The primary goal of TCMIH 1s to ensure that all employees provide competent, safe and ethical
specialized transportation to the citizens of the Virgin Islands. TCMIH has adapted this Code of

Professional Conduct to define a set of professional standards that will augment the technical and
clinical aspects of our duties.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029484
