InsightsPod

Opportunity

Problem & Solution

InsightsPod offers services such as marketing research, reports composed with said
research, and plan consultation. The service is extremely relevant, timely, and accurate
enabling clients to make informed decisions. Social media platforms such as Facebook,
YouTube, and Twitter are used to gather live feeds on which we run a sentiment
analysis, and in turn, offer our clients a superior approach to market research. We
provide the expertise to companies seeking the means to develop and improve their
products and services. To improve a company's reputation and overall customer
experience, we help identify which customer is dissatisfied in minutes. We help
businesses determine a customer’s intent and buying habits. Through the vast amounts
of data available across social media, we not only help politicians to understand what
their constituencies are talking about but also to influence people, track voters and get
them to vote. Investors who predict stock behavior by interpreting the news and public
sentiment make better trades. InsightsPod can give an insight into public sentiment
quickly and can aid financial institutions, as well as individuals, to make sound
investment decisions.

InsightsPod has already been tested during the recent EU referendum and it is
currently evaluating public opinion on the two US presidential candidates; Donald
Trump and Hillary Clinton. The results that InsightsPod produced during the
referendum proved to be positive in favour of a Brexit, and a week later, Britain voted
to leave the EU, indicating that our model was reliable. The final results of the
referendum were the complete opposite of the poll projected figures; the Leave
campaign won with a 51.9% majority. This is potentially a great example of how polls
are not as reliable as we originally thought them to be when it comes to collecting data
on general public consensus. In contrast, we gather live feeds on significant political
events to aid political figures in their campaigns and activities.

| Page 5 |

CONFIDENTIAL - DO NOT DISSEMINATE. This business plan contains confidential, trade-secret
information and is shared only with the understanding that you will not share its contents or ideas with
third parties without the express written consent of the plan author.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028822
