75

Non-Prosecution Agreements

Under a non-prosecution agreement, or an NPA as
it is commonly known, DOJ maintains the right to file
charges but refrains from doing so to allow the company
to demonstrate its good conduct during the term of the
NPA. Unlike a DPA, an NPA is not filed with a court but is
instead maintained by the parties. In circumstances where
an NPA is with a company for FCPA-related offenses, it is
made available to the public through DOJ’s website. The
requirements of an NPA are similar to those of a DPA,
and generally require a waiver of the statute of limitations,
ongoing cooperation, admission of the material facts, and
compliance and remediation commitments, in addition to
payment of a monetary penalty. If the company complies
with the agreement throughout its term, DOJ does not file
criminal charges. If an individual complies with the terms
of his or her NPA, namely, truthful and complete coopera-
tion and continued law-abiding conduct, DOJ will not pur-

sue criminal charges.

Declinations
As discussed above, DOJ’s decision to bring or decline
to bring an enforcement action under the FCPA is made
pursuant to the Principles of Federal Prosecution, in the case
of individuals, and the Principles of Federal Prosecution
of Business Organizations, in the case of companies. As
described, in the case of individuals, the Principles of Federal
Prosecution advise prosecutors to weigh all relevant consid-
erations, including:
e federal law enforcement priorities;
e the nature and seriousness of the offense;
e the deterrent effect of prosecution;
e the person’s culpability in connection with the
offense;
e the person’s history of criminal activity;
e the person’s willingness to cooperate in the investi-
gation or prosecution of others; and
e the probable sentence or other consequences if the

person is convicted.”

The Principles of Federal Prosecution provide addi-
tional commentary about each of these factors. For
instance, they explain that prosecutors should take into
account federal law enforcement priorities because federal
law enforcement and judicial resources are not sufficient
to permit prosecution of every alleged offense over which
federal jurisdiction exists. The deterrent effect of prosecu-
tion should also be kept in mind because some offenses,
“although seemingly not of great importance by themselves,
if commonly committed would have a substantial cumula-
tive impact on the community?!

As discussed above, the Principles of Federal
Prosecution of Business Organizations require prosecutors to
consider nine factors when determining whether to prose-
cute a corporate entity foran FCPA violation, including the
nature and seriousness of the offense; the pervasiveness of
wrongdoing within the company; the company’s history of
similar conduct; the existence and effectiveness of the com-
pany’s pre-existing compliance program; and the adequacy
of remedies, such as civil or regulatory enforcement actions.

Pursuant to these guidelines, DOJ has declined to
prosecute both individuals and corporate entities in numer-
ous cases based on the particular facts and circumstances
presented in those matters, taking into account the avail-
able evidence.*** To protect the privacy rights and other
interests of the uncharged and other potentially interested
parties, DOJ has a long-standing policy not to provide,
without the party’s consent, non-public information on
matters it has declined to prosecute. To put DOJ’s declina-
tions in context, however, in the past two years alone, DOJ
has declined several dozen cases against companies where
potential FCPA violations were alleged.

As mentioned above, there are rare occasions in
which, in conjunction with the public filing of charges
against an individual, it is appropriate to disclose that a
company is not also being prosecuted. That was done in a
recent case where a former employee was charged but the

former corporate employer was not?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022577

