Edwards adv. Epstein
Telephone interview with Virginia Roberts
Page 21 of 23

law and that there is people that still believe in it. So that’s it. Thank you guys for
listening to me, hearing me out and helping me. It’s kind of hard to get through.

JS: | Thank you very much. Yes, I’m sure it has been very difficult and I am very appreciative
of the courage you have shown in doing what you have done, which really brings me to
the last subject, and that is what was it that motivated you to go public with all of this?

V: Sharon Richard contacted me. I like her, I do, I like her a lot. I know she’s a journalist,
and journalists are normally bloodsucking leeches, but I like her for that, but she is an
honest bloodsucking leech. She told me a lot about what was still going on, and she
showed me a picture of Jeffrey with a little girl who looks like she could have been 12
years old. I mean it was disgusting. I agreed to talk with her, I never agreed to do
anything until she showed me some pictures, and at that stage, being a mother of 3
children and having a daughter who I would do anything for to protect, I would put my
neck on the line to make sure she never has to go through what I had to go through, and
knowing all of this, and knowing that he’s still out there doing the same exact thing with
no regrets, no remorse, no worry about what he’s doing to those girls, and all those girls
feeling the same way that I did, so I, you know, I’m doing it because I believe in my heart
of hearts it’s the right thing to do. It’s what I would want somebody to do for my
daughter or my sister or my friend, and it saddens me to know that it’s still going on right
now. It’s like the seashell story. I don’t know if you’re heard the story about the little kid
who throws back a starfish, you know, the little brother tries to ask his sister, “why do
you throw them in, they’re all gonna die anyways, the little girl says “well, it’s this one
that I can help, and this one that I can help,” and that’s what I feel like I’m doing. I’m
making a small dent in this big world we live in.

JS: I certainly appreciate that courage, and I have heard that story, and you’re absolutely
right, that one person may not be able to make a difference for everyone, but one person
can make a difference for someone, and hopefully, you are making a difference for
someone, and we’re gonna do the best we can to make sure you are making a difference
for as many people as possible.

Vv: Thanks Jack.

JS: Just a few other follow up things I want to ask you and again, if any of these questions
are questions that you’re uncomfortable in responding to, then don’t hesitate to tell me
that. Do you have any recollection of Jeffrey Epstein’s specifically telling you that “Bill
Clinton owes me favors”?

Vv: Yes. I do. It was a laugh though. He would laugh it off. You know, I remember asking
Jeffrey what’s Bill Clinton doing here kind of thing, and he laughed it off and said well

he owes me a favor. He never told me what favors they were. I never knew. I didn’t
know if he was serious. It was just a joke.

JS: Where was here?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015576
