beginning I kept having this nagging
thought: what is so bad about getting
better from a placebo?”

That kind of thinking, still hard for
most doctors to accept, was heretical in
1990, when Kaptchuk arrived at Har-
vard. “People kept saying, ‘Oh, this is just
the placebo effect” You would hear that
every day,” Kaptchuk said. He had spent
years studying Chinese medicine (and
medical history), and this made no sense
to him. “I thought, Ted, step back a
minute. This wasn’t just something that
was a negative. It was something that
needed to be understood.”

Slowly, over the past decade, re-
searchers have begun to tease out the
strands of the placebo response. The
findings, while difficult to translate into
medicine, have been compelling. In most
cases, the larger the pill, the stronger the
placebo effect. Two pills are better than
one, and brand-name pills trump gener-
ics. Capsules are generally more effective
than pills, and injections produce a more
pronounced effect than either. There is
even evidence to suggest that the color of
medicine influences the way one re-
sponds to it: colored pills are more likely
to relieve pain than white pills; blue pills
help people sleep better than red pills;
and green capsules are the best bet when
it comes to anxiety medication.

Conditioning and expectations mat-
ter, and so does learned behavior. In the
eighties, Levine and Gordon divided a
group of postoperative patients into three
sections: those in the first section re-
ceived morphine secretly, those in the
second were told they would receive
morphine (and did), and those in the
third were given a placebo that was de-
scribed as a powerful pain reliever. The
results were startling. Patients who were
told that they would receive a painkiller,
whether they actually received it or not,
had the same experience in the trial as
those who secretly received between six
and eight milligrams of morphine—a
significant amount. The covert dose had
to be increased to twelve milligrams to
surpass the effect of the placebo. Over
the past two decades, the Italian neuro-
scientist Fabrizio Benedetti (who studied
with Gordon and Levine), and Luana
Colloca, a colleague of Benedetti’s, who
is now based in the United States, at
the National Institutes of Health, have
expanded on these studies. They have

found, for example, that diazepam—
more commonly known as Valium—has
no discernible effect on anxiety unless a
person knows he is taking it. And, in-
creasingly, studies like those have been
carried out with the help of imaging
techniques—such as PET scans and func-
tional M.R.I.s—that can track brain
changes as they happen. These advances
in brain imaging, along with an increased
understanding of neurochemicals, have
transformed a vague and mysterious no-
tion into a tangible effect that scientists
consider worthy of investigation.

“What's exciting here is that, ifwe are
to talk about using placebos in a clinical
setting, they would have to have a mea-
surable effect and a biology we under-
stand,” Wayne Jonas told me. Jonas is an
interesting hybrid in a world often
sharply divided between conventional
and alternative therapies. In the early
nineties, he served as the director of the
Medical Research Fellowship Program
at the Walter Reed Army Institute of
Research, in Washington, D.C. He went
on to run the Office of Alternative Med-
icine at the National Institutes of Health,
from 1995 to 1999. Today, Jonas is the
president of the Samueli Institute, a
Washington research group devoted to
shifting the focus of health care from
treatment to prevention.

“The morphine studies bring us a long
way,” he said. So did a recent investiga-
tion by Kaptchuk, in which participants

suffering from irritable-bowel syndrome
were not deceived about their treatment;
in fact, they were told in great detail about
the placebos they received and that they
were often as effective as real medicine.
The pills brought them relief.

For many people in the field, results
like those achieved in the morphine and
I.B.S. studies, while preliminary and in
need of confirmation, hint at something
far more significant than the effect of a
placebo or problems with a particular
drug. They suggest that the “magic bullet”
approach to health care—simple, effective
solutions to single problems, like a strep
infection or polio—can no longer remain
our principal approach to treating disease.

There has always been a distinction
between disease and illness. Disease is a
biological condition that we have histor-
ically treated with drugs, surgery, and
other technological solutions. Illness, on
the other hand, defines the context of a
medical encounter, including the rela-
tionship between doctor and patient.
Like Kaptchuk, Jonas believes that pla-
cebo research demonstrates that it is es-
sential to consider both the science and
the art of medicine—to think about dis-
eases as illnesses, and not to rely solely on
short-term, high-tech solutions. Scien-
tists hope that, even if it proves impossi-
ble to replace drugs with placebos, re-
search into the way they affect us will
accomplish nothing less than a transfor-
mation of American medicine. “There are

“Bore me to sleep, Daddy.”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029928
