eae —A)) V

The Disneyland Memorial Orgy, by Paul Krassner and Wallace Wood, published in the May, 1967 issue of The Realist. Readers
with annoying bare patches on their wall can buy a copy at www.paulkrassner.com for $35.00 plus shipping and handling.

promised him that I would go to prison
sooner than identify him.

EP: Was that a concern of his?

PK: | just volunteered it. So that he would
know. And he allowed me to interview
him, albeit anonymously.'

When I published the interview, I
started to get calls. Women who were
pregnant that didn’t want to be, and didn’t
know where to go. These were differ-
ent ages, different classes. I remember
one that really had the most force to it:
A nurse called. And she couldn’t get a
doctor to help her. From a hospital, or
even privately.

So, I referred her to Dr. Spencer. And
she sent me a gift. She knew I had a little
daughter. And she sent me a doll. A lion.
Holly, my daughter, named it Lenny the
Lion, after Lenny Bruce.

EP: Oh, that’s great.

PK: | began to get more and more calls,
and I couldn’t say no. You know this is
not an abstract placard saying “Peace
Now”, this was somebody that I could
help. I couldn’t say no -- ‘cause there are
so many things going on in the world that
you can‘ help.

I never thought ’'d become an under-
éround abortion referral service. But, you

know, it became my calling, in a way.
EP: How long did you continue to help
people out?

PK: I stopped when I moved to San Fran-
cisco [in 1971]. By that time there were
others doing referrals -- Protestant min-
isters. So, I left my practice behind me.
EP: The Realist was one of the first, if
not the first, news sources to talk about
Enovid [the first birth control pill].

PK: In the first few issues! And the pill
was just a rumor. This guy, a journalist
-- | didn’t pay him much — he did a two-
part article, I think I paid him $100 for
each. He went to Puerto Rico, where they
were testing women. I had mixed feelings
about this, because they were testing
them like guinea pigs. But it worked, and
it became known as “the Pill.”

EP: Since we’re referring to a lot of
issues of The Realist, we should prob-
ably mention the online archive. I recall,
with some humor and business sense, you
only asked one thing: That we edit the
image to the Disneyland Orgy to include
a link to your site, saying a poster was
available for sale on your website.

PK: Oh yeah, that was a pure ad.

1“An Impolite Interview With An Abortionist,”
The Realist #35, June 1962.

EP: The first ad to run in The Realist,
probably?

PE: Well, sure. (laughs) It was letting
people know the poster existed.

EP: In the ten years that the archive’s been
up, it’s enjoyed a lot of regular traffic and
is now referenced in many dissertations.
By the way, did you see the Washington
Post article linking to the archive, specifi-
cally the LBJ story?”

PK: Oh, yeah. I heard about that from
Harry Shearer. He sent me the link to
the article, where they refer to me as
an “obscure 1960s figure.” The subject
line of Harry’s email was “It’s official!”
and then in the message, a link to the
article and the words “youre obscure!”
I laughed hysterically.

I think the LBJ piece (“The Parts Left
Out of the Kennedy Book,” The Realist
#74, May 1967) is still the most notorious
article; people remember it. Lewis Black
said he was fifteen when he read it and
said he was shocked! You know, because
the article was written as a seduction, in
a way. To the culmination, to the... what
do they call it in sex? The climax!

And then I published the anagram for
Nixon’s veep’s name, Spiro Agnew.

EP: “Grow a penis.” Do you remember

Ww

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023641

