June 8, 2011

specifically, how do we get businesses
to do more in terms of hiring, spend
less on redtape, less on bureaucracy,
and reduce the regulatory burden in
smart ways?

The current administration has said
some of the right things but actually
moved in the wrong direction. We have
seen a sharp increase in the last couple
of years in what are deemed to be
major economically significant rules.
That is defined as regulations that im-
pose a cost on the economy of $100 mil-
lion or more.

According to the administration’s Of-
fice of Management and Budget, the
current administration has been regu-
lating at a pace of 84 major rules per
year. By way of comparison, that is
about a 50-percent increase over the
regulatory output during the Clinton
administration, which had about 56
rules per year, and an increase from
the Bush administration as well. So we
have seen more regulations and more
significant regulations.

I was encouraged to hear President
Obama’s words when he talked about
the Executive order in January, which
is entitled ‘‘Improving Regulation and
Regulatory Review.’”’ But now we need
to see action. We need to see it from
the administration, from individual
agencies to provide real regulatory re-
lief for job creators to be able to reduce
this drag on the economy.

One commonsense step we can take is
to strengthen what is called the Un-
funded Mandates Relief Act. It was
passed in 1995. It was bipartisan. I was
a cosponsor in the House of Represent-
atives. It is an effort to require Federal
regulators to evaluate the cost of rules,
to look at the benefits and the costs,
and to look at less costly alternatives
on rules.

The two amendments I would like to
offer over the next few days as we con-
sider the legislation before us would
improve this Unfunded Mandates Re-
form Act, and it would reform it in
ways that are entirely consistent with
the principle President Obama has laid
out and committed to in his Executive
order on regulatory review.

The first amendment would require
agencies specifically to assess poten-
tial effects of new regulations on job
creation—so focusing in on jobs—and
to consider market-based and non-
governmental alternatives to regula-
tion. This would broaden the scope of
the Unfunded Mandates Relief Act to
require cost-benefit analysis of rules
that impose direct or indirect costs of
$100 million a year or more. So, again,
this is for major rules of $100 million or
more. It would also require agencies to
adopt the least costly or least burden-
some option that achieves whatever
policy goals have been set out by Con-
gress. It seems to me it is a common-
sense amendment. I hope we will get
bipartisan support for it.

The second amendment would extend
the Unfunded Mandates Relief Act to
so-called independent agencies which
today are actually exempt from the

cost-benefit rules that govern all other
agencies. In 1995, we had this debate
and determined at that time we would
not extend the legislation to inde-
pendent agencies. In the interim, inde-
pendent agencies have been providing
more and more rules, have put out
more and more regulations, and are
having a bigger and bigger impact. An
example of an independent agency
would be the SEC, the Securities and
Exchange Commission, or the CFTC,
which is the Commodity Futures Trad-
ing Commission. These are agencies
that, although independent in the exec-
utive branch, are very much involved
in putting out major rules and regula-
tions. It is sometimes called the ‘‘head-
less fourth branch’’ of government be-
cause their rules are not reviewed for
cost-benefit analysis, even by the OMB,
the Office of Management and Budget,
in its Office of Information and Regu-
latory Affairs, so-called OIRA.

We have looked at some GAO data
and put together various studies, and it
appears to us that there are about 200
regulations that were issued between
1996 until today that would be deemed
to have an impact of $100 million or
more on the economy but were auto-
matically excluded from the Unfunded
Mandates Relief Act because they were
deemed to be from independent agen-
cies.

So it is basically closing a loophole
and closing this independent agency
loophole, which I believe is a sensible
reform. It has been endorsed by many
people, including, interestingly, the
current OIRA Administrator and the
President’s regulatory czar, Cass
Sunstein, who, in a 2002 Law Review ar-
ticle, talked about the fact that this is
an area where UMRA ought to be ex-
tended because, again, there were so
many independent agencies that were
putting out regulations impacting job
creation in this country.

No regulation, whatever its source,
should be imposed on American em-
ployers or on State and local govern-
ments without serious consideration of
the costs, the benefits, and the avail-
ability of a least-burdensome alter-
native. Both these amendments would
move us further toward that sensible
goal, and I hope the leadership will
allow these amendments to be offered.
I think they fit well with the under-
lying legislation. If they are offered, I
certainly urge my colleagues on both
sides of the aisle to support them.

I yield the floor. I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call.

The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.

Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.

Ee

MORNING BUSINESS

Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that Senators be

Gase 9:08-cv-80736-KAM Document 85-1 Entered on FLSD Docket 06/17/2011 Page 2 of 4
: CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE

S3607

allowed to speak as in morning busi-
ness for up to 10 minutes each.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.

EE

TRIBUTE TO LOUIS E. GIVAN

Mr. McCONNELL. Mr. President, I
rise today to recognize a distinguished
Kentuckian who has worked tirelessly
on behalf of our Nation’s soldiers, sail-
ors and marines for more than 40 years.
Louis E. Givan, a lifelong resident of
my hometown of Louisville, has played
a vital role in protecting the men and
women of our Armed Forces and our
country’s defense.

Formerly a sailor himself in the U.S.
Navy, he has served for the last 11
years as the general manager of
Raytheon Missile Systems operations
in Louisville. I was saddened to hear of
his retirement from that position this
coming July 5. He will certainly be
missed.

Mr. Givan—or, to those who know
him, Ed—was a 1966 graduate of St. Xa-
vier High School in Louisville and in
1970 earned his bachelor of science de-
gree in mechanical engineering from
the J.B. Speed School of Engineering
at the University of Louisville. In 1968,
he began working at the Naval Ord-
nance Station in Louisville, and he
stayed at that post until 1996, in var-
ious engineering and supervisory posi-
tions.

In 1996 the Naval Ordnance Station
transitioned to private ownership, and
Ed's leadership was crucial in making
that transition a successful one. The
facility eventually became part of
Raytheon Missile Systems, and Ed was
appointed general manager in 2000. As
general manager, Ed has led Raytheon
Missile Systems in Louisville to great
success, success for both the company
and for the local community. They de-
sign, develop, and produce vital weap-
ons systems for our armed forces, ena-
bling America to have the most formi-
dable military force in the world.
Weapons produced at the Louisville fa-
cility are used by our forces in all parts
of the globe, including in Iraq.

Kentucky is lucky to have benefitted
from Ed’s dedication, commitment to
excellence, and leadership for so many
years. I am sure his wife Velma; his
sons Eddie, Tony, and Chris; and his
grandchildren Benjamin, Nathan,
Isaac, Macy and Natalie are all very
proud of what Ed has accomplished. I
wish him the very best in retirement,
and I am sure my colleagues join me in
saying that this U.S. Senate thanks
Mr. Louis E. ‘‘Ed’’ Givan for his faith-
ful service.

CRIME VICTIMS’ RIGHTS ACT

Mr. KYL. Mr. President, I ask unani-
mous consent that the following letter
be printed in the RECORD.

There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012719
