THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA

PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)

CITY AM.

BUSINESS WITH PERSONALITY

http://www.cityam.com/lifestyle/books/the-art-world-heats-once-more

The art world heats up once more
Wednesday, 13th October 2010

Timothy Barber has a look around Frieze Art Fair, which opens to the public today

AS an army of glamorous art industry movers and shakers traipsed into Frieze Art Fair’s marquee yesterday, a
young woman was standing outside distributing paper leaflets for an upcoming exhibition. Not that surprising
perhaps — some galleries need all the help they can get publicising themselves — except that the gallery in
question was the Royal Academy. That London’s most august art institution should find itself flyering outside a
tent in Regent’s Park is one measure of the extent to which the capital’s art scene now triangulates itself around
Frieze.

There are others. The National Gallery’s new exhibition of works by the 18th century Venetian artist Canaletto has
coincided with Frieze this week; the merry-go-round of satellite exhibitions now includes one from The Saatchi
Gallery — its owner, Charles Saatchi, practically gave birth to London’s contemporary art scene as we know it, after
all — called The House of the Noble Man, in a residence near Frieze, which puts Cezanne, Manet, Poussin and
Picasso alongside Richter, Murakami and Hirst; and of course, Frieze now dictates the timing of the contemporary
art auctions that are the most immediate signifier of the health — or otherwise — of the art market.

As far as that goes, Anders Petterson, managing director of art market analyst ArtTactic, says the mood is
cautiously optimistic. After a rotten 2009, record-breaking February sales apparently signified a return to business
as normal, but momentum slowed in the summer with some shows falling significantly short.

“People got carried away with the rebound earlier in the year and sellers got a little greedy with the estimates
they demanded, so the summer sales were a bit down,” Petterson says. “Since then the market has revived a bit,
and people are being more realistic about the situation.”

38

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028318
