Reiter, who has a master's degree in human resource development from Palm Beach
Atlantic University, also has attended the FBI National Academy in Quantico, Va., and
management courses at Harvard. He's been active in countywide interagency law
enforcement organizations and has a top secret national security clearance.

He has a perspective that's broader than just addressing the needs of the town, said
Town Manager Peter

Elwell, who promoted Reiter from assistant chief to chief in March 2001. Reiter makes
more than $144,000 as the town's top cop. Elwell thinks he's worth it. He's very
businesslike, very straightforward. He's not easily agitated or flamboyant. He's about the
work, Elwell said. I think that his service as chief has been outstanding in five-plus
years.

New York Times — 09/03/2006

Questions of Preferential Treatment Are Raised in Sex Case Against Money Manager -
September 3, 2006

By ABBY GOODNOUGH

PALM BEACH, Fla. — In the summer and autumn of last year, when most of the
mansions here stood empty behind their towering hedges, the police stealthily watched
one at the end of a waterside lane. They monitored the comings and goings of its owner’s
private jet, subpoenaed his phone records and riffled through his trash.

The owner was Jeffrey Epstein, 53, an intensely private New York money manager with
several billionaire clients. Months earlier, the stepmother of a 14-year-old girl told the
Palm Beach police that a wealthy older man, whom the girl later identified as Mr.
Epstein, might have had inappropriate sexual contact with her.

In sworn statements to the police, the 14-year-old and other teenage girls said a friend
had arranged for them to visit Mr. Epstein’s home and give him massages, usually in
their underwear, in exchange for cash.

Most of the girls, according to the police, said Mr. Epstein had masturbated during the
massages, and a few said he had penetrated them with his fingers or penis. They
identified him in photos and accurately described the inside of his home. Some recalled
that his employees had fed them snacks or rented them cars.

Mr. Epstein pleaded not guilty in August to the crime he was ultimately charged with,
soliciting prostitution. But at a time when prosecutors around the nation have become
increasingly severe in dealing with people accused of sex offenses, the case has raised
questions about whether Mr. Epstein’s prominence won him preferential treatment.

By the account of the police, they found probable cause to charge Mr. Epstein with much

more serious offenses: one count of lewd and lascivious molestation and four counts of
unlawful sexual activity with a minor.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021783
