Al2 Saturday, March 10, 2018

INSIGHT

Power with purpose

Robert Lawrence Kuhn explains why abolishing presidential term limits may well be good for China

o interview delegates

and officials at the

annual National Peo-

ple’s Congress in Bei-

jing, interspersed with
being interviewed in the interna-
tional media about China abol-
ishing term limits forits president,
is to inhabit parallel universes.

Delegates and officials focus
on clusters of issues from control-
ling financial risk and reducing
pollution to scientific innovation
and business stimulation, plus
enhancing and institutionalising
China’s anti-corruption cam-
paign with a powerful National
Supervision Commission. The
international media, no surprise,
focus on the constitutional
amendment ending term limits,
assuming President XiJinping will
now serve in a for-life dictator-
ship, reminiscent of Mao's China,
the Soviet Union, the Kim family
in North Korea and some African
countries.

It is no challenge to explain
why abolishing term limits is bad
for China - dependency on one
human being who is not omni-
scient but is hostage to fortune,
fewer and weaker checks and
balances, forced conformity in a
complex society with no easy an-
swers, etc. The system begins
stronger in that hard choices can
be made and consistency main-
tained, butit could become brittle
in that officials are more wary and
may say things they do not
believe.

Itisa challenge to explain why
abolishing term limits is good for
China, so that's what! will do.

First, some background. There
are three separate issues being
conflated: the significance of end-
ing term limits, the intended con-
sequences and the unintended
consequences. Though terminat-
ing the two-term limit for China's
presidency captures headlines, it
is more the symbolic, final step
ratifying Xi’s near-absolute power
than the big breakthrough itself.

Many expect this
experiment to
end badly for
China. It is
indeed an
experiment but
its end is not set

Xi’s prior designation as “core” of
the Communist Party in October
2016 and the inscribing of “Xi
Jinping Thought...” into the party
constitution in October 2017 were
more meaningful.

Moreover, the Politburo
Standing Committee, the highest
authoritative body in China,
unambiguously supports Xi.
China watchers see the front page
of People's Daily - published the
day after the new Standing Com-
mittee marched out on stage —
which featured Xi’s photo on top,
many times larger than the small-
er, subservient photo of all seven
members lined up on the bottom.

All this reconfirms that, in a
system where the party controls
the state - especially where the
pany ‘is Marxist and ideology is its

asis for being — Xi, as core of the
party, with his name inscribed in
the constitutions of party and
state as the contemporary arbiter
of Marxism, will be the uncontest-
ed, overarching leader of China
for the rest of his sentient life.

For intended consequences,
the official line is that the purpose
is national cohesion brought
about when the three top leader-
ship positions — general secretary
ofthe party, chairman of the Cen-
tral Military Commission and
president of the republic - are
aligned temporally and held bya
single person.

his makes sense, but as a
primary, proximal motivation, itis
not entirely persuasive. The
current structure has existed for
decades without outcry or angst
(notto mention that the three po-
sitions could be unified by install-
ing term limits on the other two).

The “newera”, marked by eco-
nomic, social and global com-
plexities, is said to require firm
and consistent leadership, mak-
ing moot inner party struggles
and even mitigating political gos-
sip, facilitating focus on the tasks
of governance and development.
Specifically, because advancing

etd)

reformhasbecome more difficult,
with entrenched interest groups
resisting change, the message
must now go forth that all must
get with the programme, because
you can’t outwit or outwait Xi.

Because, it is said that only Xi
has the vision, experience, com-
petence and character to bring
about “the great rejuvenation of
the Chinese people”, especially
from 2020 to 2035 and ultimately
to 2050- bringing China to global
centre stage — Xi’s unimpeded
leadership is deemed essential.
China cannot afford “downtime”
to accommodate a change of
leadership, and after Xi’s success
at the 19th National Party Con-
gress came the time to make clear
that he will call the shots for the
foreseeable future.

Some argue that doing away
with term limits shows the superi-
ority of the Chinese system as it
allows flexibility in matching
leadership to requirements
(though what national leader,
when extending his reach, hasnot
claimed “current requirements”
as justification?)

The party-run Global Times
stated that ending term limits
does notmean China has reverted
to president-for-life tenure. (But
who can deny that however long
Xi holds the top positions seems
largely up to him?)

As for the unintended conse-
quences, the almost unanimous,
disparaging foreign reaction —
other than US President Donald
Trump’s-didnotburnish China's
international image.

More worrisome would be a
reluctance by officials to offer
constructive opposing views on
central policies.

By stressing term limits, the
international media misses
fundamental changes going on in
China ~ this ee, innovation,
streamlining of government, faci-
litation of business (cutting
bureaucracy and reducing taxes),
rural revitalisation and rural land

reform. The 13th National Peo-
ple’s Congress shows how the
grand vision and mission of the
19th National Party Congress is
translated into specific strategies
and policies. Ifone sees only term
limits, one cannotvisualise thebig
picture.

AsforXimaintaining the presi-
dency perpetually, it doesn’tactu-
ally matter much thisis the deep
insight of how China’s party-state
system works. Xi as core of the
party and “Xi Jinping Thought...”
as the party's (andnowthestate’s)
guiding principle means that Xi
can transfer titular party leader-
shipand/orthe presidencyto oth-
ers and still maintain his
overarching power. It may well be
that, after serving two or even
three more terms, rather than try-
ing to find and install another
leaderlike himself, he will move to
bring about true democracy with-
inthe I.

Here's he best case. Xi will not
be leader-for-life, but leader long
enough to bring about China's
national rejuvenation and estab-
lish a Chinese kind of democratic
norms. Could Xi continue until
around 2035, when China plans to
have “basically” achieved full mo-
dernisation, heading towards, by
mid-century, 2050, a “great mod-
ern socialist country”?

Many expect this experiment
toend badly for China. Itis indeed
an experiment but its end is not
set. It may be a race between
achieving Xi’s grand vision and
some untoward perturbation that
could cause fracture.

Allfactors considered, Iam not
saying abolishing term limits is
absolutely good for China. I am
saying itmay be good -because of
China's special conditions and
Xi’s special capabilities—butifitis
good, it’s just for this once, andit’s
just for so long. That's the best
case. I'm rooting forXi.

Robert Lawrence Kuhnisa public
intellectual, international corporate
strategist and investment banker, and
China expert/commentator. He is the
author of How China’s Leaders Think

What the Western belt and road sceptics are missing

Wenshan Jia says there are opportunities for the whole world to benefit from China’s initiative

hina'’s “Belt and Road Initiative’is

an original plan to carry out anew

type of “collaborative globalisation”
above and beyond US-led type. Itwas
proposed five years ago by President Xi
Jinping after the tapering off of US-led
globalisation in 2008.

Xioffered three principles: mutual
consultation, joint construction and
shared benefits. China has since then fully
executed 101 agreements with 86
countries, and total investmentin the 24
countries along the belt and road regions.
has amounted to US$50 billion, resulting
in 75 industrial and trade zones, an¢
200,000 jobs.

With its focus on infrastructure, the
initiative is a model not only for developing
countries, but also industrialised ones in
Europe and North America, where ageing
infrastructure needs replacing. It also
adapts to each local, national or regional
condition, situation and need. Itis proving
very democratic, more so than the
lopsided US-led globalisation that spurred
a populist, isolationist backlash across the
Western world.

China has done a proper job of
explaining to the West what the initiative is
and extended a sincere invitation to each

country to join. Many think tank scholars.
and major media outlets in the West have
found it potentially lucrative and
expressed relatively strong support.

Yet, instead of appreciating China's
efforts to both inherit the liberal agenda of
globalisation and forgea new path for
global development, many Western
political elite, led by the US, have started a
campaign to resist the initiative. From
Australia to the US, and the UK to
Germany, there are calls for the West to cut
interactions with China to minimise or
resist its so-called “sharp power”. The
labels typically applied to China include
“authoritarian” and ‘predatory citing
Beijing for not upholding “freedom,
democracy and individual rights”, the core
values of the West.

This attitude towards the initiative
reveals not only a contradiction in the
Western mind, but also the narrowing or
even closing of minds.

Isn'tit beneficial to meet the goals of
forging connectivity and cooperation, as
articulated in Xi’s effort to enrich and
expand the meaning of the “free world” by
liberating humankind from geographical,
financial, political and cultural barriers?
The worldis no longer the West versus the

rest, as wealready live in aworld
connected by the internet. The initiative
seeks to make the world more
interconnected for both the West and the
rest, contributing to the construction ofa
human community with a shared future.

Recently, the initiative has inspired and
spawned a push for localisation,
particularly the Indo-Pacific strategy led by
the so-called “Quad” of the US, India,
Japan and Australia. Some Western media
viewit asa rival or alternative to China’s
beltand road.

But] would argue that it can be part of
China's initiative as longas the three
Chinese principles (mutual consultation,

The anti-China smear
campaign must be
replaced bya
discourse involving
consultation and
communication

joint construction and shared benefits) are
observed in the Quad strategy. The belt
and road was created to be anall-inclusive
platform, so Beijing has no need to fear
localisation as long as such strategies do
not seek to contain China or disruptits
plan. Itwould be wise for the Quad and
China to look for ways to collaborate.

Quad countries need not take an
antagonistic stance towards China; the
anti-China smear campaign must be
replaced bya discourse involving
consultation and communication. The
world has experienced more than enough
damaging talk, not to mention wars.

The core principles of Xi’s belt and road
strategy must be always applied in China's
interactions with local strategies. If China
is, as German Foreign Minister Sigmar
Gabriel told the Munich Security
Conference in February, “the only country
in the world with any sort of genuinely
global, geostrategic concept”, then
Western leaders should cultivate a
genuinely global strategy in line with
China's vision, for the betterment of all
humankind.

Wenshan Jia, PhD, is a professor in the
School of Communication, at Chapman.
University (California) and a research fellow
atthe National Academy of Development.
and Strategy, Renmin University of China

Private clubs
deserve ‘cushy’
rental deals

Edith Terry says private recreational
clubs are part of Hong Kong’s
heritage and have contributed to
nurturing less popular sports, as
well as a unique hybrid culture

first job, went in search of a social group. He founda
home away from home in Hong Kong's oldest
private recreational club, newly relocated froma prime
location on Victoria Harbour, where City Hall is today,
toa modest flagstone boathouse beneath Island Road
on Hong Kong's south side. Fifty-five years later, Frank
Pfeiffer, a Zen Buddhist and mountain climber, is still
anactive member of the Victoria Recreation Club,
established in 1849. He has watched it ring the changes
from Hong Kong's colonial society in the 1960s, when it
had only two Chinese members and no female
members, to the hybrid institution it is today, under its
first Hong Kong Chinese chairman, Wu Kam Shing.

Its membership is a spectrum of Hong Kong's
diverse and athletically minded middle class. There is
the Hong Kong Chinese court reporter who visits the
club in Deep Water Bay every morning at 6am on her
way from home in Ap Lei Chau to her workplace in Sha
Tin. There are her fellow swimmers, many elderly, who
swim outto the buoys, rain or shine, hot or cold, eve
day. Some 100-150 “paddlers” use the club as a base for
outrigger canoeing, dragon boating and paddle
boarding. Some of the sports were unknown to Hong
Kong before the club nurtured them, others, like
dragon boating, are deeply traditional.

In the current debate over the future of the 67
private recreational clubs that pay minimal rents to the
government, history has been swept aside. True, they
were designed on a colonial template, in which the
diverse ethnic groups were given separate retreats.
Membership at the pinnacle clubs was reserved
primarily for the British. For other ethnic groups, there
was a Chinese Recreation Club, a Club de Recreio, a
Hlipiie Club, an Indian Recreation Club, andso on.

long Kong's colonial rulers reviewed the lease
system for the private clubs in 1968 and 1979, andin
the run-up to the handover in 1997 when leases were
restricted to 15-year terms. At the handover, anumber
of leases were extended to ensure a so-called smooth
transition. The sceptic would argue that this was a
dodge, and indeed in 2011, during the first post-1997
review of private recreational leases oy the Legislative
Council, most of the clubs seemed oblivious to public
concerns as well as new requirements for “opening up”

The government argued
that subsidies were
needed because use of land
for sports and recreation
would never trump
commercial utilisation

I 1964, ayoung German, fresh off the plane athis

to schools and community organisations, Following
the last well-publicised review in 2013 and the current
investigation seeking new venues for public housing,
theyareno longer complacent.

Should the private clubs have got their cushy rental
deals in the first place? At the time of the reviews 50
years ago, the government argued that subsidies were
needed because use ofland for sports and recreation
would never trump commercial utilisation. What was
true then is even more so today. The high cost ofland in
Hong Kongis dragon innovation and creativity. The
existence of the private recreational clubs means ithas
been less ofa dragon sports.

Most of the clubs with governmentleases are
framed around core sports golf, tennis, horse racing,
swimming sailing and rowing, to namea few. Hong
Kong athletes whose development was: supported by
these clubs have gone to the Olympics and other
international competitions. In the 1940s, the Victoria
Recreation Club was the driving force behind Hong,
Kong's participation in the International Olympic
Committee and the Hong Kong Sports Federation.

Public pressure on the clubs to forge community
ties and contribute to Hong Kong through “opening
up” schemes is appropriate—but not the pressure to
convert their land to high-rise estates. The loss is not
only to the core sports they represent but also to their
unique DNA, which is the foundation of Hong Kong—
diverse, cosmopolitan and adventurous. If you want to
look for a Hong Kong that is not just about money, one
place tolookishere.

Edith Terry is the honorary secretary of the Victoria
Recreation Club. She writes in a personal capacity

Stand-up paddlers participate in an event held at the
Victoria Recreation Club. Photo: Jonathan Wong

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023683
