Restructuring the University 165

processes discussed above. Second, students could choose to think
about diagnosis in some areas as opposed to others. Art experts might
teach about art fraud, and lawyers might teach about detecting busi-
ness fraud. In each case there would be similarities, and these should
be taught by a group of faculty from different areas, but at the end
of the course students should be able to start to actually do diagnosis
under the tutelage of an expert in an area that interests them.

They actually may not know much about that area of knowledge,
of course, and that would be the objection of the faculty to this idea.
But it is my contention that faculty have had this wrong all these
years. Teaching the basics to students, who have no concept of their
possible use, is really not helpful. All these introductory courses are
just an excuse to pack kids into lecture halls and pretend to do educa-
tion while saving money on hiring more teachers. Teachers should
pose real-world problems to students and encourage students to gain
the knowledge they need to solve them.

Diagnosis is a perfect area for this. One can try one’s hand at
crime detection, without knowing everything about the details of
how one does it, with the help of an expert looking over one’s shoul-
der. This kind of just-in-time learning is how humans have always
learned what they needed to know. The idea that school should teach
you what you need to know before you need to know it, is seriously
flawed. People can’t remember what they learned, years after they
learned it in school, if they haven’t been practicing what they learned
all along.

Judgment. Law typically is not part of any college curriculum
because law schools are recent inventions on college campuses (that is,
they are from the past century and not the century before) so law never
got to be part of the required or even elective set of college courses
despite the fact that so many students want to be lawyers. Judges make
judgments all the time, and those lawyers who teach judges to make
judgments should be teaching freshmen to make judgments as well.
Of course, artists and musicians and literary critics make judgments
of a different sort, as do philosophers and businesspeople. All of these
people could be teaching a course together on how to make judgments
fairly and how to determine what is fair. This is where ethics and
morality come into play as well.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023911
