Trex could be a different way of handling monthly and one-time goals. Ill use your example of an

Aston Martin’s monthly payment, a personal assistant’s monthly payment, and a trip to the Croatian
coast. While the first two should certainly be totaled and included in your target monthly income, the trip
is something that should be divided by the number of months between now and the dreamline’s total
time.

Thus if you had a six-month dreamline:

Aston Martin = 2,003 per month
Personal assistant = 400 per month
Croatian trip = 934 total, and thus 934/6 per month

Right now in the book and in the spreadsheet we have (2003 + 400 + 934) x 1.3 monthly expenses =
Target Monthly Income (or TMI).

But I think it should be (2003 + 400 + 934/6 x 1.3 monthly expenses = TMI.

Or, more generally: [Monthly Goals + (One-Time Goals / Total Months)] x 1.3 monthly expenses =
TMI.

— JARED , president, SET Consulting

6. Determine three steps for each of the four dreams in just the 6-month timeline and take the first
step now.

I’m not a big believer in long-term planning and far-off goals. In fact, I generally set 3-month and 6-
month dreamlines. The variables change too much and in-the-future distance becomes an excuse for
postponing action. The objective of this exercise isn’t, therefore, to outline every step from start to finish,
but to define the end goal, the required vehicle to achieve them (TMI, TDI), and build momentum with
critical first steps. From that point, it’s a matter of freeing time and generating the TMI, which the
following chapters cover.

First, let’s focus on those critical first steps. Define three steps for each dream that will get you closer
to its actualization. Set actions —simple, well-defined actions —for now, tomorrow (complete before 11
A.M.) and the day after (again completed before 11 A.M.).

Once you have three steps for each of the four goals, complete the three actions in the “now” column.
Do it now. Each should be simple enough to do in five minutes or less. If not, rachet it down. If it’s the
middle of the night and you can’t call someone, do something else now, such as send an e-mail, and set
the call for first thing tomorrow.

If the next stage is some form of research, get in touch with someone who knows the answer instead of
spending too much time in books or online, which can turn into paralysis by analysis. The best first step,
the one I recommend, is finding someone who’s done it and ask for advice on how to do the same. It’s
not hard.

Other options include setting a meeting or phone call with a trainer, mentor, or salesperson to build
momentum. Can you schedule a private class or a commitment that you'll feel bad about canceling? Use
guilt to your advantage.

Tomorrow becomes never. No matter how small the task, take the first step now!

=> COMFORT CHALLENGE

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013837
