How to Teach the Twelve Cognitive Processes 127

Thus, when we teach planning, there is either a lot to undo, or we
must start from the beginning. We can try to explain why each and
every old plan is not really helpful in a new situation, or we can teach
a series of plans that are relevant. In other words, if you are trying to
teach people to write a business plan, you need to start with a lemon-
ade stand and work up. If you are trying to teach financial planning,
you need to start with a child’s allowance and work up. If you want to
teach battle planning, try a tug of war first. This is what should have
occurred in childhood. If it didn’t, it needs to be restarted that way for
adults. We need to use, again and again, plans in different situations
that are simple and begin to analyze why they fail. (And these plans
must fail, at least in simulation, or no real learning will occur.)

Planning is very difficult. It must start simple and be practiced
simply for a while or it never becomes second nature. Plans must fail,
at least in simulation, because analysis of what went wrong is a critical
part of planning. If you aren’t analyzing what went wrong, you aren’t
learning to plan. Your case base will not end up having been indexed
well enough to enable you to pick and choose appropriate plans in
the future.

HOW TO TEACH CAUSATION

At the root of diagnosis and planning is causation. Detecting cause
is an essential part of diagnosis, and anticipating cause is an impor-
tant aspect of planning. Causation must be understood in order to do
many things in this world. One needs to know what causes what. Sci-
ence courses in school attempt to teach causation by having students
memorize F = ma, or having them imitate chemistry experiments, or
having them dissect a frog. While there is nothing wrong with any
of that in principle, it really doesn’t teach causation in a way that is
particularly useful to a functioning adult.

While diagnosis and planning may not be recognized as critical
skills by schools, causation is, although not under that word. Cau-
sation is understood as being what science is all about, and when
schools endeavor to teach science, they are in fact trying to teach
causation. This is true for social science as well. History is about cau-
sation, as is psychology. The fact that these subjects are not talk-
ed about in this way indicates something important about them.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023873
