Date 7/13/06 PALM BEACH POLICE DEPARTMENT Page: 13
Time: 9:27:55 Incident Report | Program: CMS301L
Case No. : 1-05-000368 (Continued)

her mother and then placed into[

I contacted the School Board Police who provided me the information

Florida. Checking the
schoo oard records for there was no
disciplinary record found. I was advised if no disciplinary action
was taken for a fight, such as an expulsion or detention, the incident
may not have been recorded. This was at the discretion of the
individual school security and principal.

03/15/2005, I called the Palm Beach County Sheriff's Office and left a
message for PBSP Sgt. Chris Keen, Child Abuse Unit.

On 03/15/2005, I went to where I met with white
female Also present was
Lew, I spoke with

therapist. During an audiotaped interv.
about the allegations that were made. fd initiall denied

anything had happened, only admitting to going with (later
identified as — if to Palm Beach to pick up money BEM was

owed. identified EMM as the cousin of her former
boyfriend She ultimately admitted to knowing that

worked for a wealthy man and possibly did sexual favors for him. She
also admitted that had offered her an opportunity to make

money.

[rd identified HBB boss as a white male named Jeff who
lived in Palm Beach (later positively identified as aa Epstein).
explained that she was first “percacs by to go with

her to Jeff's house, when they were at house. According to

[ds sshe was not sure exactly what was going on with but
agreed to go with her. boyfriend) became angry when
he heard SJ inviting to accompany_her. believed

it was to pick up money the man owed —. stated
told her that she would pick her up at her house on Sunday.
was not sure of the exact dates but knew it was a Sunday. According
to[__—S—sédiW NMJ along with an unknown, possibly Hispanic female,
picked her up at her father's house on old her

father that they were going shopping. It was later confirmed by
that HE picked his daughter up. According to Mr.
Gis Grove a pick up truck.

Ra ¢=-v-(_____la tong with the unknown female to Palm Beach.
S |

metime on the way there, a conversation occurred between and
whereby BBM told[— st that if Jeff asked her
age, she should say she was eighteen.

a recalled that Jeff's house was on a dead end street. All
three girls walked up a driveway, past what appeared to be a small
guard/security room. In fact, recalled a male approaching
them asking what they wanted. stated they were there to see
Jeff. The male allowed them to continue walking up to the house.

b6e
b7C

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018966 ©
