4.2.12
WC: 191694

My favorite characters in the Bible and in literature are those who challenge authority: Adam and
Eve defying God and eating the forbidden fruit of knowledge; Abraham chastising God for
threatening to sweep away the innocent along with the guilty; Moses imploring God to change his
mind about destroying the “stiff-necked” Jewish people.

My favorite Justices of the Supreme Court are the dissenters. My favorite historical figures are
political and religious dissidents. My closest friends are iconoclasts. Some of my best teachers
were fired.

The First Amendment would have been nothing more than a parchment promise had it not been
given life by brave political dissidents and bold judicial dissenters. Because of these provocateurs,
the First Amendment has not become ossified with age. It has changed with the times, sometimes
for the better, sometimes for the worse. Although the literal words have remained the same for
more than two centuries, two of the most important ones have been changed beyond recognition.
These words are “Congress” and “no.” (“Congress shall make no law....”) The controversial
role of these two words can best be illustrated by a story; perhaps aprocrophyl but reflecting
reality, about two great and contentious justices, Hugo Black, who claimed to be an absolutist
and literalist when it came to the words of the First Amendment, and Felix Frankfurter, who
advocated a more functional balancing approach despite the seemingly clear words of that
Amendment. In a case involving censorship by a state, Black pulled out his ragged old copy of
the Constitution, turned to the First Amendment and read it out loud to the lawyer representing
the state. “Read the words,” he shouted at the intimidated lawyer. “It says Congress shall make
NO law abridging the freedom of speech.” He banged the table as he shouted and repeated the
word “no.” “What don’t you understand about the word ‘no,’” he asked rhetorically. Justice
Frankfurter interrupted and said, “You’re reading the words wrong.” The lawyer looked startled
as the Justice explained. “It doesn’t say ‘Congress shall make NO law.’ It says, “CONGRESS
shall make no law,’” banging the table as he shouted and repeated the word “Congress.” He then
continued, “This law wasn’t passed by Congress, it was passed by the state. What don’t you
understand about the word ‘Congress,’” he asked, mocking his fellow justice.

By emphasizing different words, the two justices were giving radically different meanings to the
very same language of the First Amendment.

The reality is that both of these words—“Congress” and “no”—have been excised over time. The
first—“Congress”—was central to the history of the Bill of Rights, which was seen by its framers
largely as a bill of restrictions on the power of the national legislature—namely “Congress.”
There was considerable concern that the Constitution, which replaced the Articles of
Confederacy, bestowed too much power on the national legislature, thus reducing the rights
(really the powers) of the states to legislate for their citizens.*° The First Amendment was not
intended by its framers to impose restrictions on the states. In fact when the Bill of Rights was
enacted, and for many years thereafter, many states had laws severely abridging the freedom of
speech and of the press. (Several states also had officially established churches and officially
discriminated against Catholics, Jews, Turks and “other” Pathens.) Ifthe framers had wanted to
impose restriction on the states, it would have been simple to have written a more general

°6 The rarely invoked 10 Amendment makes this clear: “The powers not delegated to the United States by the
Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people.”

86

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017173
