30

Origins and Structure

From the 1950s to the 1970s, when the United States maintained an alliance with the
regime of Chiang Kai-shek on Taiwan, pro-PRC organizations faced challenges gaining
traction in the United States. During the 1950s, the FBI, aided by pro-Kuomintang security
organizations, closely monitored their activities and participants. This antagonistic state
of affairs began to change after President Nixon’s historic trip to China in 1972.'On
February 24, 1973, more than forty Chinese on the East Coast, most of them immigrants
from Taiwan, established the Washington Association to Promote China Unification to
help advocate for Beijing’s official positions. One of the founders was a professor at the
University of Maryland who was actively involved in organizations that already supported
China’s position on Taiwan and Tibet.? However, a more beneficial contribution came

in the form of advancing US-China scientific, educational, and cultural exchanges that
started to be promoted by a growing number of preeminent Chinese American scientists,
engineers, and academics who were also advising the Chinese government to launch
reforms in science and education. These Chinese Americans were also personally helping
them establish various programs to bring thousands of talented Chinese students to
American institutions of learning.

Recognizing the achievements, influence, and growth of the Chinese diaspora, Beijing
undertook a systematic program designed to target and exploit overseas Chinese
communities as a means of furthering its own political, economic, and security interests.
The Beijing government used specialized bureaucracies to manage what it called “united
front” activities abroad. Organizations such as the Overseas Chinese Affairs Office inside
the Communist Party Central Committee’s United Front Work Department? and the State
Council’s Taiwan Affairs Office led the charge. Almost all of these agencies have established
nongovernmental fronts overseas, including the China Council for the Promotion of
Peaceful National Reunification, the China Overseas Exchange Association, and the China
Overseas Friendship Association.* Other “united front” organizations, such as the Chinese
Enterprise Association and other Chinese chambers of commerce, are almost always linked
both to the United Front Work Department and to the Ministry of Commerce.

Following the violent crackdown on the prodemocracy movement in Beijing on June 4,
1989, the Chinese Communist Party redoubled its efforts to reach out to overseas Chinese.
Many members of these communities had supported the student democracy movement,
providing funds and safe havens for fleeing dissidents. But senior Chinese leader Deng
Xiaoping was not dissuaded. In 1989 and again in 1993, he spoke of the “unique
opportunity” overseas Chinese offered the PRC. Deng insisted that by drawing on their
help, China could break out of international isolation and improve its international
political standing. Gaining influence over overseas Chinese groups in order to “turn them
into propaganda bases for China” became an important task of overseas Chinese united
front work.*

The Chinese American Community

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020489
