complicated battle within myself, it is one I still ache to fully comprehend
today.

Sunny spring days melted away the ice off the frozen streets of New
York and the harsh winter winds begun to gently blow away the dead
leaves, making the caged trees appear to have some form of life again. I
hated the cold winters there, it would only add to my depression being
locked indoors. Give me hot Florida days blistering in the sun where I
can swelter by a cool pool and sip cocktails with pieces of fruit and little
oriental umbrella’s floating around. What a vision of solace? Looking
around my extravagantly decorated mid-evil room I was reminded of the
desolation that I was more than accustomed too. Knowing it wouldn’t be
long before | was summoned again for another ritualistic occurrence in
fornicating with my master, [ hardly bothered to leave my assigned
chambers, scarcely being sent home for a moments break, I just accepted
my fate. As I predicted the intercom buzzed momentarily and I heard
Ghislane’s voice come over and request to meet them in Jeffrey’s study.
Not an odd call, I would often meet him there first so he could tie up
some unfinished business before heading to the dungeon, or what was
thought to be the massage room. Making my way down the hall, 1 had an
eerie feeling wash over me, as if I had several pairs of eyes on me,
watching my every move. A cold chill moved up my spine and I had to
move my thoughts elsewhere, too easy behind these walls to succumb to
my fearsome anxieties. I punched in number one once inside the elevator
and it took me down to the floor where Jeffrey and his surprise guest
were waiting with anticipation behind closed doors. I cracked open the
heavy wooden doors and a familiar face revealed itself. Definitely not
expected or pre-warned on my part but I already knew what he was here
for or at least why I was called down to the study. Prince Andrew had
that notorious cheesy grin slapped over his face, as he looked me up and
down like a shiny new car on display and he was about to take it for a test
drive. Ghislane led me to the decadent sofa he was lounging on and
twirled me around to give him a good lookover before sitting me down on
his lap. Like a show pony I knew exactly how they wanted me to be
paraded around, with the last of my dignity long lost, I had nothing more
to lose. It was easy to give them the reaction they desired, all T had too do
was pretend to be entertained by their lewd gestures, and when Andrew
cupped my breast with a doll made in his image, I only giggled away.
Ghislane wanted to take a picture of the bizarre scene and even got
Johanna, another one of Jeffrey’s so-called personal assistants, to come
sit on his other knee for the snapshot, giving the impression girls couldn’t
stay away from Randy Andy.

Many crude jokes later and | was asked to show Andrew to the upstairs
massage room. I’m sure he already knew where it was from previous

81

(J Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFREO04214

9 ¥e

encounters with Jeffrey’s “staff” but | led the way anyways, as if he was
now my guest of honor. Entering into the dim room it took a few minutes
for my eyes to adjust to the darkness, but knowing my way around the
room was enough to find the shower. I turned on the steam room and
began to undress myself. Andrew followed my lead and disrobed,
throwing his attire to the floor. I wanted to run and hide feeling his hands
touch me again, but my servitude for Jeffrey kept me there. Getting out of
his stronghold I turned my attention to the steam filling up and tried to
turn his attention to the marble bench where | suggested he take a seat
while I rubbed his feet. By the look in his eyes I knew he could care less
about a foot massage, his real desires were being shown by the arousal
his body was forming. He indicated where he wanted me to touch him
and how. I fulfilled his seedy requests, but only just. There was no
pleasure in this for me, the only thing I derived from this event was to
sink further into my slumber of depression. | couldn’t remember a time
when I felt needed for anything other than my body or amusements
thereof. After his massage was thoroughly conducted | couldn’t wait to
get back to my room for another shower. Sitting on the floor of the
shower under the harsh spray of water, [ scrubbed my body where he
touched me. Feeling abhorrent and ashamed what I had become, I let the
water wash away the grime.

As the days progressed into nights and the nights followed a trail of
destructive months, my outlook on life had diminished into utter sadness.
[had lost my spark and my ability to look like I could handle the abusive
state of affairs I had drifted into. Sinking deeper in the euphoric state of
being on coke and pills, not only was my mentality dwindling away but
also my looks. I sure as hell didn’t feel like a seventeen year old anymore
and now I wasn’t looking like one. My eyes had dark circles underneath
them from not sleeping and my bones protruded from my skinny
waistline and chest. This made Jeffrey apprehensive in keeping me
around as often and before | had a moments notice, I was out of money
and looking for a job. When I questioned him what was happening, he
told me I wasn’t the same girl he had first met some time ago now and
looked like I needed a break from working so much. “ [’ll call you next
time I’m in town” was the last thing he said to me.

Chapter 13

Going back to an average teenagers life was more of a harder transition
than I would’ve ever thought. Jeffrey stopped paying my expensive rent
and I was forced to get off the drugs and look for a real job to feed and
shelter T.J and I. It was much harder than it sounded, but I was craving

82

C1 Copyright Protected Material

GIUFFRL0042 15

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021185
