This email is intended for the addressee named within only. It may contain legally privileged or
confidential information. If you are not the named individual you should not read this email and if you do
so, you must not under any circumstances make use of the information therein. If you have read this
email and it is not addressed to you, please notify |[@devonshires.co.uk and confirm that it has been
deleted from your system and no copies made.

This Firm is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority under the name of
Devonshires Solicitors and registration number 0049857. This Firm does not accept service by
electronic mail or facsimile. A list of partners, together with further legal statements, is available upon
request or at www.devonshires.co.uk/terms- and-conditions/legal- notices.html

Devonshires Solicitors, 30 Finsbury Circus, London EC2M 7DT tel +44 (0)20 7628 7576 fax +44 (0)20
7256 7318

Where instructions have been given by Devonshires Solicitors to a barrister to work on a client’s
matter, we notify you, on behalf of that barrister, that you have the right to make a complaint about the
service provided by that barrister or about the conduct of their Chambers. A copy of the barrister and /
or their Chambers’ complaints procedure may be obtained by contacting the Senior Clerk of that
Chambers, whose contact details can be found online, or from us. Complaints may be made direct to
the barrister / their Chambers. Please note that there may be a time limit for bringing your complaint.
You may also have the right to ask the Legal Ombudsman to consider your complaint at the end of the
complaints process. Information on complaints to the Legal Ombudsman, including the details of strict
time limits to bring a complaint, may be found at http:/Avww.legalombudsman.org.uk .

The Devonshires Foundation is proud to support Action for Kids (reg. charity 1068841), Wide horizons
(reg. charity 1105847), and Theatre Royal Stratford East (reg. charity 233801) during 2013/2014.
Please consider the environment before printing this email.

Please consider the environment before printing this email.

please note

The information contained in this communication 1s
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of

JEE

Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited
and may be unlawful. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com , and
destroy this communication and all copies thereof,
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030601
