Friday, February 24th

Mid-day, I arrive at The Beverly Hills Hotel, where I have stayed for
thirty years. As the housekeepers unpack my bags upstairs I peek into
the Polo Lounge and find icon Warren Beatty in a booth. He motions me
over to meet an Egyptian fashion editor from Cairo. I say, Warren, you
are a little late to visit Cairo. I tell him I'm rooting for Annette
and love her film “The Kids Are All Right”. Warren tells me “The Social
Network” will win.

This year I am two days late arriving to Oscar weekend. I am now shown
to a very very very small room, the size of a broom closet.
Uncharacteristically, I have a slight melt down. I am moved. The
housekeepers run down the hall with my clothes flying. I calm down. The
hotel is sold out. I get someone else's room. Another poor schmuck
checking in downstairs will get the broom closet.

It is cold, grey and rainy. Taffata, organdy and embroidered silk
evening clothes hang in my closet. I stay in my sweaters and fur coat
and head to Arianna Huffington's Mediterranean house in Beverly Hills
where Wendi Murdoch and Arianna are hosting a party for Tom Freston's
wife, the beautiful blond Kathy. The book is called Veganist: Lose
Weight, Get Healthy, Change the World. A perfect book for Monks.

Arianna has just sold the Huffington Post for to AOL to $315 million
dollars and rumored to have personally landed around $2@ million. She is
euphoric as she greets Nicole Kidman and Keith Urban at the door. Other
drenched power players ushered in under umbrellas include Disney's Bob
Iger and wife Willow Bay, Fox’s Jim Gianopulos, Candice Bergen and
journalist daughter Chloe Malle, Google's Eric Schmidt, Oliver Stone
avoiding questions about Charlie Sheen and escorting his daughter Tara,
Moby, Jamie Niven, Brian Grazer, Vivi Nevo, Tracey Ullman, CBS’s Les
Moonves and Julie Chen, Rob Reiner, Paramount’s Brad Grey and fiancé
Cassandra Marc and Jeff Bezos. Hors d'oeuvres include pigs in blankets,
a food group not mentioned in Kathy's book.

The party action migrates to UTA Jim Burkus's home in the neighborhood
for “True Grit’s” Ethan and Joel Coen. I pass Ron Howard on the way in
and he says, Keep me on your list. Is he kidding? Sunrise and Mark
Ruffalo, Tim Robbins, Focus Feature’s James Shamus, Nancy Meyers and
John Goldwyn mingle. Adorable Hallie Steinfeld is there with her
parents. I am trying to fix her up with Justin Bieber. She giggles,
“Peg, I am only 14.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012693
