LET’S ASPIRE TO MORE THAN MAKING OURSELVES OBSOLETE
Max Tegmark

Max Tegmark is an MIT physicist and AI researcher; president of the Future of Life
Institute; scientific director of the Foundational Questions Institute; and the author
of Our Mathematical Universe and Life 3.0: Being Human in the Age of Artificial
Intelligence.

Although there’s great controversy about how and when AI will impact humanity, the
situation is clearer from a cosmic perspective: The technology-developing life that has
evolved on Earth is rushing to make itself obsolete without devoting much serious
thought to the consequences. This strikes me as embarrassingly lame, given that we can
create amazing opportunities for humanity to flourish like never before, if we dare to
steer a more ambitious course.

13.8 billion years after its birth, our Universe has become aware of itself. On a
small blue planet, tiny conscious parts of our Universe have discovered that what they
once thought was the sum total of existence was a minute part of something far grander: a
solar system in a galaxy in a universe with over 100 billion other galaxies, arranged into
an elaborate pattern of groups, clusters, and superclusters.

Consciousness is the cosmic awakening; it transformed our Universe from a
mindless zombie with no self-awareness into a living ecosystem harboring self-reflection,
beauty, hope, meaning, and purpose. Had that awakening never taken place, our
Universe would have been pointless—a gigantic waste of space. Should our Universe go
back to sleep permanently due to some cosmic calamity or self-inflicted mishap, it will
become meaningless again.

On the other hand, things could get even better. We don’t yet know whether we
humans are the only stargazers in the cosmos, or even the first, but we’ve already learned
enough about our Universe to know that it has the potential to wake up much more fully
than it has thus far. AI pioneers such as Norbert Wiener have taught us that a further
awakening of our Universe’s ability to process and experience information need not
require eons of additional evolution but perhaps mere decades of human scientific
ingenuity.

We may be like that first glimmer of self-awareness you experienced when you
emerged from sleep this morning, a premonition of the much greater consciousness that
would arrive once you opened your eyes and fully awoke. Perhaps artificial
superintelligence will enable life to spread throughout the cosmos and flourish for
billions or trillions of years, and perhaps this will be because of decisions we make here,
on our planet, in our lifetime.

Or humanity may soon go extinct, through some self-inflicted calamity caused by
the power of our technology growing faster than the wisdom with which we manage it.

The evolving debate about AI’s societal impact

Many thinkers dismiss the idea of superintelligence as science fiction, because they view
intelligence as something mysterious that can exist only in biological organisms—
especially humans—and as fundamentally limited to what today’s humans can do. But
from my perspective as a physicist, intelligence is simply a certain kind of information

63

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016866
