before they set off at marine base Camp Fallujah. But the men kept their distance from the
leathernecks. Had they spoken to the marines, the Blackwater team might have learned that the
Americans were already in the midst of a major offensive meant to assert control over the
increasingly restive city, where elements of the radical Islamist movement and remnants of Saddam's
army were beginning to aggressively strike back. at the American occupation (p. 306, The Hidden
History of American at War), and perhaps this is the only thing that makes sense of the fact that
Under the terms of its contract, Blackwater was supposed to supply these convoy security missions
with two SUVs, each carrying three guards per vehicle; a driver, one man riding shotgun, and a third
man in back with a heavy machine gun. Instead, the foursome set out that morning with just two men
per car, each vehicle missing their rear gunner. The SUVs were only outfitted with a steel plate as
extra armor. And the men had not been given maps.” (p. 305).

Starr went on to defend Jeffrey Epstein abasing allegations of child sex trafficking - Along with a
dream team of attorneys that included Gerald Lefcourt, Roy Black, and Ken Starr, [Alan Dershowitz]
was successful in getting federal investigators not to charge Epstein with moving his victims across
state lines and other associated crimes. The federal non-prosecution agreement Epstein's legal team
negotiated with the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida immunized all named and
unnamed potential co-conspirators in Epstein's child trafficking network, which includes those who
allegedly procured minors for Epstein and also any powerbrokers who may have molested them” (-
http://gawker.com/flight-logs-put-clinton-dershowitz-on-ped...). Otherwise, Epstein's eventual 18
month sentence by the state of Florida was exceptionally light under the circumstances to include the
number of victims who came forward with testimony. This is best understood in the context of children
being used as a means to government-sponsored sexual blackmail and other forms of leverage.

See here Erik Prince in greater context: (the similarities between him and once (secretly) favored
child Bin Laden)

The coordinations among global intelligence to make rather than eliminate terror as seen thru
assets bin Laden (as M. Noriega before him) & Erik Prince:

About BL: Some CIA officers will later say that [BL] serves as a semi-official liaison between the GIP
[Saudi intel.] and warlords like Sayyaf.”
(www.historycommons.org/entity.jsp?entity=ahmed_badeeb_ 1)

About EP: “Handcuffed by politics, the CIA had not been able to cultivate relationships with the key
but messy leaders. Fortunately, Blackwater had no such political restrictions.” (p. 54, Civilian Warriors
by E. Prince)

We see also:

About BL: Bin Laden established camps inside Khyber Pakhtunkhwa in Pakistan and trained
volunteers from across the Muslim world to fight against the Soviet-backed regime, the Democratic
Republic of Afghanistan” (Wikipedia)

About EP: In his autobiography, he states that during the Yugoslav Wars in the early 1990s, he
realized the need for private training facilities for special operations... Prince moved to Virginia Beach
and personally financed the formation of Blackwater Worldwide in 1997. He bought 6,000 acres (24
km2) of the Great Dismal Swamp of North Carolina and set up a school for special operations”
(Wikipedia)

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015012
