suddenly become immediate and loud in a litany of threatening thoughts that
hooked and persisted through sleepless nights. They taught me to see genuinely
the delicate beauty of flowers and to know in my stomach that some forms of
sadness felt hollow like homesickness. In medical school | found that that many of
them were the clinic patients, women and men, with unusual sensitivity to chemical
odors, think Gulf War Syndrome, and fibromyalgia, which | heard as unusually
sensitive awareness of normal sensory information about posture and position
coming in from the bones and muscles of the body but experienced as pain. This
background of odorific and somatic information is usually repressed from
consciousness by the rest of us. Their medical histories contained detailed accounts
about how each of their organs was feeling at the time, sensations that the
textbooks say we are incapable of consciously knowing. Internists and psychiatrists
often dismissed their accounts as signs of somatoform disorder, psychological
conflicts expressed in the language of body feelings.

In the psychophysiological laboratory, | learned these brains tended not to
habituate. Each of a series of noises continued to elicit startle responses that could
be picked up in brain wave recordings or in the running record of a
psychophysiological, lie detector, machine. In psychoanalytic training, | learned that
these brains remembered their dreams more richly than the rest of us and that
treatment with over twice a week analytic sessions was potentially dangerous. The
psychoanalytical situation-engendered fantasies and feelings could get too strong
and exaggerated, too real.

Professor Iris Bell of University of Arizona’s Alternative Medicine Research
Program has, studying these brains, found slower reaction times, defects in divided
attention psychological tasks, longer latencies to the first dream, and unusual
patterns of odor reception called cacosmia or dysosmia. Using brain wave and
cardiac interbeat interval data as markers, Bell reports the increase in the amount of
alpha awake brain waves and decreases in cardiac interbeat interval variation
associated with increasing sensitivity, rather than habituation, with repeated
exposure to a variety of smells over time.

In spite of these brains usually requiring what is known as high maintenance

66

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013566
