We will need some more help from lan and Rory because we are still weak on international
communication. Some old negative stuff keeps coming up in the Guardian newspaper in England. But
most of the international media is not paying much attention to Maldives right now.

| have asked Rory to help find a full time communications guy to stay here for about a year to work with
me. He doesn't have to be an expert, just a good graduate student would do. Some really positive stuff is
also happening now and we need the world to know about them.

World Energy Forum and CGI guys are here. | am meeting Clinton people in a few minutes.

| have some funding now but will ask all friends to help raise more later when things start happening in
full swing. Election is now scheduled to early September.

Hope all is well and look forward to seeing you here in the not too distant future.
Warm regards,
Waheed

On Jan 9, 2013, at 6:03 PM, Jeffrey Epstein wrote:

how is it shaping up? what are the biggest hurdles.

Oe ee oe ee ee eo ee ok ae ee ee a ee ee ee eo eee oe RR RR OR RK KK

The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of

Jeffrey Epstein

Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited
and may be unlawful. If you have received this
communication in error, please notify us immediately by
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and
destroy this communication and all copies thereof,
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved

HE ee oR ae ee ae ee oe ee eo oe a ee ee eo ee eR OR eR OR OR RK KR KK

The information contained in this communication is
confidential, may be attorney-client privileged, may
constitute inside information, and is intended only for
the use of the addressee. It is the property of

Jeffrey Epstein

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029686
