Case 1:19-cv-03377 Document 1-8 Filed 04/16/19 Page 4 of 16

http://www.vanityfair.com/news/2003/03/jeffrey-epstein-200303

himself in the phone book under a pseudonym. He rarely attends society gatherings or weddings
or funerals; he considers eating in restaurants like “eating on the subway”—1.e., something he’d
never do. There are many women in his life, mostly young, but there is no one of them to whom
he has been able to commit. He describes his most public companion of the last decade,
Ghislaine Maxwell, 41, the daughter of the late, disgraced media baron Robert Maxwell, as
simply his “best friend.” He says she is not on his payroll, but she seems to organize much of his
life—recently she was making telephone inquiries to find a California-based yoga instructor for
him. (Epstein is still close to his two other long-term girlfriends, Paula Heil Fisher, a former
associate of his at the brokerage firm Bear Stearns and now an opera producer, and Eva
Andersson Dubin, a doctor and onetime model. He tells people that when a relationship is over
the girlfriend “moves up, not down,” to friendship status.)

Some of the businessmen who dine with him at his home—they include newspaper publisher
Mort Zuckerman, banker Louis Ranieri, Revlon chairman Ronald Perelman, real-estate tycoon
Leon Black, former Microsoft executive Nathan Myhrvold, Tom Pritzker (of Hyatt Hotels), and
real-estate personality Donald Trump—sometimes seem not all that clear as to what he actually
does to earn his millions. Certainly, you won’t find Epstein’s transactions written about on
Bloomberg or talked about in the trading rooms. “The trading desks don’t seem to know him. It’s
unusual for animals shat big not to leave any footprints in the snow,” says a high-level
investment manager.

ADVERTISEMENT

Unlike such fund managers as George Soros and Stanley Druckenmiller, whose client lists and
stock maneuverings act as their calling cards, Epstein keeps all his deals and clients secret, bar
one client: billionaire Leslie Wexner, the respected chairman of Limited Brands. Epstein insists
that ever since he left Bear Stearns in 1981 he has managed money only for billionaires—who
depend on him for discretion. “I was the only person crazy enough, or arrogant enough, or
misplaced enough, to make my limit a billion dollars or more,” he tells people freely. According
to him, the flat fees he receives from his clients, combined with his skill at playing the currency
markets “with very large sums of money,” have afforded him the lifestyle he enjoys today.

Why do billionaires choose him as their trustee? Because the problems of the mega-rich, he tells
people, are different from yours and mine, and his unique philosophy is central to understanding
those problems: “Very few people need any more money when they have a billion dollars. The
key is not to have it do harm more than anything else.... You don’t want to lose your money.”

He has likened his job to that of an architect—more specifically, one who specializes in
remodeling: “I always describe [a billionaire] as someone who started out in a small home and as
he became wealthier had add-ons. He added on another addition, he built a room over the garage
... until you have a house that is usually a mess.... It’s a large house that has been put together
over time where no one could foretell the financial future and their accompanying needs.”

He makes it sound as though his job combines the roles of real-estate agent, accountant, lawyer,

money manager, trustee, and confidant. But, as with Jay Gatsby, myths and rumor swirl around
Epstein.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017774
