3:

36.

37.

38.

a

40.

KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP
Sloman’s demand, other than to protect prospective plaintiffs from being interviewed
prior to their retaining an attorney (including, as it tumed out, Mr. Sloman’s former law
partner) to bring civil lawsuits against Epstein.

Mr. Sloman also demanded that Epstein “begin his term of incarceration not later than
January 4, 2008,” id., which tumed out to be just three weeks before the first civil lawsuit
would be filed against Epstein.

Contrary to the express agreement of United States Attorney Acosta that the federal
government would not interfere in the administration of any state sentence, Mr. Sloman
tried to limit gain time and or work release by stating that Mr. Epstein must “make a
binding recommendation that the Court impose a sentence of 18 months of continuous
confinement in the county jail.” Jd. (This followed Mr. Sloman’s position that the Office
would consider a state sentence ordering probation in lieu of incarceration to be a breach
of the deferred-prosecution agreement.) Shortly thereafter, Mr. Sloman sent the FBI to
meet with the state sex-crimes prosecutor in an attempt to secure her commitment to
oppose work release.

Mr. Sloman insisted that Mr. Epstein not learn the identities of the government’s list of
alleged “victims” until after Epstein was sentenced and incarcerated.

We have reason to believe that, around this same time, Mr. Sloman’s former law partner,
Jeffrey Herman, had met with the father of one of the prospective plaintiffs, Saige
Gonzalez.> At the same time (and until as recently as March of 2008), the Official
Florida Bar website continued to identify Mr. Sloman as a named partner in Mr.
Herman’s firm. See Tab 31, Florida Bar Website page.

Mr. Herman, who is the named pariner in the former firm of Herman, Sloman, &
Mermelstein, filed five lawsuits, each asking for $50 million, against Mr. Epstein. Each
lawsuit is entitled “Jane Doe # vs. Jeffrey Epstein,” despite the fact that each of the
plaintiffs is an adult and not entitled to plead anonymously. See Tab 32, Examples of
Federal Complaints.

Mr. Herman convened press conferences contemporaneously with filing three of the
suits. In the most recent press conference, he admitted that all of the plaintiffs lied to
Epstein about their ages. See Tab 33, Herman Public Statement. One of the supposedly
traumatized “victims” actually pled in her complaint that she returned to Epstein’s house
“on many occasions for approximately three years.” Another of these supposedly
traumatized “victims” herself acted to introduce her friends and acquaintances to Mr.

The Justice Department rules disqualify employees from working on matters in which their former employers
have an interest: “an employee shall be disqualified for two years from participating in any particular matter
in which a former employer is a party or represents a party if he received an extraordinary payment from
that person prior to entering Government service. The two-year period of disqualification begins to run on the
date that the extraordinary payment is received.” 5 C.F.R. § 2635.503(a) (emphasis added).

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012167
