THE HOUSE OF THE NOBLEMAN
CURATED BY WOLFE VON LENKIEWICZ & VICTORIA GOLEMBIOVSKAYA

PRESS CLIPPING (INTERNET)

THE ART NEWSPAPER

£6m worth of Picassos to go on show during Frieze

The exhibition, to be held in a property co-owned by a Russian billionaire, also includes works by Warhol, Hirst,
Richter and Saatchi's New Sensations

By Gareth Harris | Web only
Published online 9 Sep 10 (News)

Four rare works by Picasso thought to be worth over £6m and an 1875 Cézanne oil on canvas will go on sale
during Frieze week next month in an ambitious exhibition to be held at a London property part owned by a
Russian billionaire. The show, entitled The House of the Noble Man (12-20 October), will open at 2 Cornwall
Terrace, an 18th-century building off Regent's Park in London near to the Frieze Art Fair site. The exhibition is
curated by artist Wolfe von Lenkiewicz, whose works will feature in the display, and Russian curator Victoria
Golembiovskaya. Around £20m worth of art will be for sale, approximately a third of the show, confirms Von
Lenkiewicz.

According to the co-curator, the Picasso pieces on offer will include Buste d'Homme a Ia Pipe (1969, priced at
£3m); the 1905 drawing The Family of Saltimbanques and a cubist painting, Nature Morte au Gobelet (around
1914). An 1875 oil on canvas by Cézanne, Don Quixote, is priced at £1.25m. Works by Yves Klein, Egon Schiele,
Gerhard Richter, Damien Hirst and Andy Warhol will also be for sale. Von Lenkiewicz's own works will be in the
£30,000-£60,000 price range.

The Picassos etc. are from anonymous dealers who will take their portion of the percentages. Any other
proceeds made during the show will go back into the funding of the exhibition which is hugely expensive despite
its sponsorship [by the Russian real estate company Mirax], adds Von Lenkiewicz. A selection of works from
Charles Saatchi's New Sensations 2010 roster of emerging artists will also be for sale. Twenty students
shortlisted for the prize, which is sponsored by Cadogan Tate, have been chosen to present their work; these
artists include Matthew Welch, Katie Sims and Pablo Wendel. A non-selling section will include works from the
London-based Zabludowicz Collection and the holdings of the Iraqi-born industrialist Ragdan El-akabi.

The show came about when | was in Moscow exhibiting my work at Triumph Gallery. Victoria took me to the
Mirax city project, a huge development in central Moscow. She talked to Sergei Polonsky [head of Mirax] about

the Cornwall Terrace buildings which he has shares in. He was willing to sponsor the show, says Von Lenkiewicz.
The Mirax group are co-developers of the Cornwall Terrace historical complex, parts of which are up for sale.

10

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028290
