Scott Link
June 19, 2019
Page 5

had been victimized. It shattered her to her core. At the vulnerable age of 16, Mr. Epstein made
himself the center of her existence and the master of her world. She realized she was a
disposable pawn in his game. She could not talk about her years with Mr. Epstein because she
was consumed with shame. At 16 years old, he isolated her and made himself her only
emotional support system. Her mental torment and pain turned into depression. She was
prescribed medication. She numbed herself and tried not to deal with what had happened. She
tried to block the pain.

es ..:: embarrassed that she had been used and abused. She withdrew and had
no desire to model or interact with anyone in the modeling world anymore. iii’
stopped taking calls from modeling agencies, and eventually they stopped calling for good. She
was afraid to go to New York where her emotions and memories would be triggered.

The final contact between IEEE and Mr. Epstein was when he tracked her
parent’s house phone number in Kansas and tried to speak to her. J mother
grabbed the phone and told Mr. Epstein she was calling the police before hanging up on him.

Her career dwindled to nothing. Taking a break from the modeling industry when clients
like Italian Vogue and Victoria’s Secret were requesting bookings constituted career suicide.

In Kansas she became chronically depressed. She was suicidal before her 18 birthday.
She called the suicide hotline many times from her home.

While in Kansas, a friend of i: her an email with news that Mr. Epstein
had been arrested for trafficking underaged girls. MM felt as if she had gone from
being a supermodel to becoming an unsuspecting prostitute. Her parents’ warnings of what
would become of her in New York had come to fruition. She fell prey to a child predator, Mr.
Epstein, and it took her a decade to understand the gravity of what Epstein had done to her as a
vulnerable young girl.

Mr. Epstein masqueraded as a loving mentor, a parental substitute and friend who had
nothing /— best interest in mind. The repercussions of the sexual and mental
abuse cndured remain with her. Her first sexual encounters are forever scarred by
memories of Mr. Epstein forcing his purple massage device between her legs amidst her cries for
him to stop. Debilitating nausea and stomach pain followed her separation from him. She had
no framework with which to reference what a “normal” sexual experience was. She remains
plagued with self-doubt and insecurity and finds it nearly impossible to separate memories of
Mr. Epstein’s manipulation and abuse from new relationships she tries to develop.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010564
