What other basic terms do we need? Cash flow at the collective scale, where
transfers cancel internally, and there is no source of investment from outside,
simplifies to exhaust of value in taste satisfaction. There is no negative component
because there is no external source of new investment. Tradition through most of
economic history has called this exhaust consumption. Schultz recognized some
consumption as investment in human capital, I said earlier, and limited the exhaust
to “pure consumption”. I will use this and the term “exhaust” interchangeably. Then
transfer, consumption, exhaust and pure consumption belong in the vocabulary too.

at

So does “invested consumption”, my restatement of Schultz’ “pure investment” in

human capital.

This seems to be the right track. The object is prediction of behavior. The maximand
rule predicts all behavior, and I have sought to build a vocabulary and catechism to
clarify its terms. The right vocabulary, thank gosh, is mostly the one we have all used
since Adam Smith or even Petty. It has needed only a little tweaking and

clarification, as to the two kinds of capital and consumption for example.

There is a “fundamental theorem” of calculus showing how differentials and
integrals fit together. Its proof takes a lot of thought. There is a simpler one for
algebra. Might a fundamental theorem of economics be helpful? Obvious candidates
would include the maximand rule predicting all behavior, the total return truism
explaining the output numerator of the maximand (rate of return), and the present
value rule explaining the capital denominator. For years I chose the maximand rule
as the fundamental theorem. Then | preferred the present value rule as more
fundamental since it explained the denominator. But so would be the total return
truism in explaining the numerator. Now | opt for the judgment of Paris. Let the
three together be the fundamental theorems of economics. The maximand rule is
the centerpiece, and the other two define its terms. All three together are much

easier to follow, mercifully, then the one of calculus.

Chapter 3: Foundations 1/11/16 9

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010980
