28

Intelligence Agency that the military files compromised by Snowden included documents bearing
on military plans and weapons systems; foreign government’s intelligence activities (including
special activities), intelligence sources, or methods or cryptology;

Scientific and technological matters relating to national security;; vulnerabilities systems,
installations, infrastructures, projects, plans, or protection services relations to national security
and the development, production, or use of weapons of mass destruction. The members of the
House and Senate Intelligence Committees, but not the public, also have been privy to an NSA
investigation that established the chronology of his actions, including changing jobs, copying more
than one million classified documents at the Signals Intelligence Center in Hawaii and flying to
Russia.

Nor does additional information necessarily change the minds of people who already have a
firm view. In the field of social psychology, the testing of “confirmation theory” consistently
shows that people tend to more readily reject new information that contradicts their pre-existing
beliefs. For example, when Lee Harvey Oswald was arrested in the Texas Theater on November
22, 1963, he said famously, “I haven’t shot anybody.” Ten months later, the Warren Commission
presented evidence, including ballistic tests that it claamed showed that Oswald had shot three
people, including President John F. Kennedy, less than an hour before making his statement. Yet,
many of those who believed Oswald’s public proclamation his innocence chose to believe that the
government had falsified all the incriminating evidence to tarnish Oswald (who had been killed on
November 24, 1963) rather than accept that they had been wrong in believing Oswald.

The charges, countercharges and defamatory name-calling in the Snowden case therefore only
deepened the great divide. Those who saw Snowden as a democratic hero exposing the abuses of
power of an out-of-control national security state tended to dismiss anything that depicts
Snowden in a negative light as a fabrication while those who saw Snowden as a “traitor” tended
to dismiss anything that depicted him in a more positive light.

When it comes to the murky universe of spy agencies, the problem in deciding where the truth
lies is further heightened by the possibility of deliberate deception. Spy masters are, after all, in
the business of concealing their most sensitive operations. It is often considered essential that
important secrets be protected by what Winston Churchill famously termed “a bodyguard of lies.”
Top intelligence officials are not exempt from this practice. Consider, for example, the response
to a question concerning the NSA’s operations made by James D. Clapper, the Director of
National Intelligence to the Senate Intelligence Committee on March 12, 2013. Senator Ron
Wyden (D-Oregon) of the Committee asked the spy master if the NSA collected data on
Americans. Clapper answered that the NSA did not knowingly “collect any type of data” on
millions of Americans. Clapper’s answer was clearly untrue. However, it did not mislead Senator
Wyden or any other members of the Senate Intelligence Committee because Clapper had
truthfully testified that the NSA did collect American’s telephone records in a classified session of
the Committee earlier that week. Who was being misled was the American public. Yet, none of
the Senators on the Committee, including Senator Wyden, corrected this obviously false answer.
When Clapper realized he had misspoken, he could not publically correct the record of the public

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020180
