116 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

Some secret methods that Snowden made public compromised
the NSA’s state-of-the-art technology of which adversaries had
been unaware. For example, the NSA had devised an ingenious tech-
nology in 2008 for tapping into computers abroad that had been
“air-gapped,” or intentionally isolated from any network to protect
highly sensitive information, such as missile telemetry, nuclear bomb
development, and cyber-warfare capabilities. The secret method that
the NSA used involved surreptitiously implanting speck-sized cir-
cuit boards into air-gapped computers. These devices then covertly
transmitted the data back in bursts of radio waves. Once Snowden
exposed this technology, and the radio frequency transmission it
used, America lost this intelligence capability.

In addition, a considerable number of the published documents
did not even belong to the NSA but were copies of reports sent to
the NSA by its allies, including the British, Australian, Canadian,
French, Norwegian, and Israeli intelligence services. Snowden pro-
vided journalists with secret documents from the British cyber
service GCHQ, describing its plans to obtain a legal warrant to pen-

© etrate the Russian computer security firm Kaspersky to expand its ©
“computer network exploitation capability.” What the GCHQ was
revealing in this secret document was its own capabilities to monitor
a Russian target of interest to British intelligence. While the release
of these foreign documents might have embarrassed allies of the
United States, they exposed no violations of U.S. law by the NSA. It
was a legitimate part of the NSA’s job to share information with its
allies. This raises the question: What constitutes whistle-blowing?

To the general public no doubt, a whistle-blower is simply a per-
son who exposes government misdeeds from inside that govern-
ment. But in the eyes of the law, someone who discloses classified
information to an unauthorized person, even as an act of personal
conscience, is not exempt from the punitive consequences of this act.
Indeed, if a person deliberately reveals secret U.S. operations, espe-
cially ones that compromise the sources and methods of U.S. intelli-
gence services, he or she may run afoul of American espionage laws.

In the past, when government employees have disclosed highly
classified information to journalists to redress perceived govern-
ment misconduct, they were almost always prosecuted. During

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 116 ® 9/29/16 5:51PM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019604
