their enriched uranium outside Iran. Western analysts were confident that
Mr. Khamenei would give his blessing, given the international pressure he
was said to be under following the fraudulent elections and the bloody
crackdown that followed.

The Ayatollah quashed that deal too: Whenever they [Americans] smile
at the officials of the Islamic revolution, when we carefully look at the
situation, we notice that they are hiding a dagger behind their back.

It was the same in January 2011, when diplomacy also collapsed. Ditto in
2012, when negotiations in February, May and June each ended in failure.
Washington went into those talks thinking they were going to succeed on
the theory that Tehran desperately wants relief from the supposedly
crippling pressure of economic sanctions.

Why does the Ayatollah keep saying no? The conventional wisdom is that
previous U.S. offers weren't generous enough, or that the wrong President
was in the White House, or that Iran wants only to deal directly with the
U.S. and not in multilateral forums. Each of these theories has been tested
and shown to be false.

A more persuasive explanation—get ready for this shocker—is that Iran
really wants a bomb. The regime believes, not unreasonably, that
Moammar Gadhafi would still be in power had he not given up his nuclear
program in 2003. Mr. Khamenei also fears a velvet revolution scenario,
in which more normal ties with the West threaten the ideological
foundations of the Islamic Republic. Confrontation with America is in this
regime's DNA.

Meantime, the pretense of negotiations has allowed Tehran to play for
time to advance its programs. When Mr. Obama took office, Iran had
enriched 1,000 kilos of reactor-grade uranium. In its last report from
November, U.N. inspectors found that Iran has produced 7,611 kilos to
reactor grade, along with 232 kilos of uranium enriched to 20%, which is
close to bomb-grade. Last month, Iran declared that it would install 3,000
advanced centrifuges at its Natanz facility, which can enrich uranium at
two to three times its current rate.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028729
