NAUTILUS EDUCATION | BETA PRODUCT

Chemistry & Fuels

The matter in our world is recycled. The pair of articles here explores how elements and atoms
wend their way through space and time. Students will explore how chemical reactions usher ele-
ments through their journeys. You Are Made of Waste illustrates, in five short vignettes, the lives of
the elements that make up our teeth, fi breath, hair,and blood. Frack ‘er Upisanin-depth
look at the botched promise of biofuel—energy from cars made from renewable plant growth.

In the “curriculum” section of the teacher’s notes, you will find information on how these pieces
can help fulfill requirements of the Next Generation Science Standards. Specifically, they make
for entry pomts to—or a means of reinforcing—lessons on photosynthesis, chemical reactions,
valence electrons, and energy. But more than that, these lessons will connect to the students’ daily
lives, and spark discussion.

Lesson Plan:

Ask students to read one or both of the articles for homework. Briefly introduce or review the vocabulary words
in class. Assign all or a selection of the reading comprehension questions for the students to complete along
with the reading, and ask them to come up with one question for further discussion. (Note that a couple of the
questions for each article are redundant.)

Start class with students raising any technical questions they might have about the readings. Ask them to
contribute their discussion questions, and write these on the board, along with the questions provided in the
teacher’s notes. Ask the students to break into small groups; assign each group to address a question, and
briefly present to the class for further discussion. 30-45 MIN

In the following class time (or another class) have the students complete one or more of the activities in the
teacher’s notes in small groups. 30 MIN

Teacher’s Notes: You Are Made of Waste

VOCAB WORDS

Mass: a physical property that describes an object’s Radioactive decay: the process by which a nucleus
resistance to force. The mass of an object canbe used ejects alpha particles, particles of ionizing radiation.
to calculate its weight: (mass) x (gravitational force) A nucleus that does this is considered “unstable;” a
= weight. substance that contains unstable nuclei is consid-

ered “radioactive.” This process usually only occurs in

Carbon: an element found in stars, planets, comets, : .
atoms heavier than tron.

as well as in all known living things.

12

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015472
