Defence: Vision 2030 supports defence
spending

Celine Fornaro >> Benjamin Heelan >>
MLI (UK) MLI (UK)
celine.fornaro@baml.com benjamin.heelan@baml.com

Saudi Arabia is increasing its regional role as a Security and Defence nation in the
Middle East region. The 2030 Vision includes a higher local content in defence
procurement which can be achieved through new contract awards and increased
cooperation with large Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs). BAE is best
positioned, in our view: it has been the in the country since 1966 with 5,000 local
employees and Saudi Arabia represents 21% of BAE’s group sales.

Saudi Arabia to build out military industrial base

Defence is one of the key industries that Saudi is pinpointing for investment as part of
its future strategy plans, and one where it is well placed to become a global leader, in
our view. Saudi Arabia has one of the largest defence budgets globally, and we expect
its focus on defence investment to remain broadly intact regardless of the price of oil.
Due to regional tensions, defence spending will likely remain high for the foreseeable
future, in our view. Saudi Vision 2030 and the associated National Transformation Plan
(NTP) will likely increase focus on use of defence to achieve their economic
diversification goals. This is likely to take place through capability deployment and
employment in partnership with long term defence partners. Saudi authorities aim to
raise the locally-sourced defence procurement from 2% today to 50% in 2030.

Much of the countries’ defence spending is for foreign imports. According to
consultancy IHS, 1 out of every 7 dollars spent on defence imports in 2015 was spent by
Saudi Arabia, which was predicted by IHS to increase its defence imports by 52%yoy to
USS9.8bn in 2015.

In our view, Saudi strategy to increase locally manufactured defence content is justified,
given their level of purchasing power with international contractors. However, this could
trigger a round of new contracts’ awards to set up new terms. The State owned Taqnia
company has been signing some contracts with international companies but this
remains very limited at this stage.

Saudi commitment to defence spending positive for European Defence

Saudi Arabia’s Ministry of Finance 2016 defence budget spending remains high at
SAR213bn (cUS$57bn) which is 25% of the total budget. In 2015, the budgeted defence
spending reached SAR307bn (US$82bn). Despite the large decrease in headline defence
and security expenditure, budgetary figures suggest the allocation for the Ministry of
Interior, Ministry of National Guard, Ministry of Defence, General Intelligence
Directorate, and Saudi Royal Guard Regiment could be heavily supported from elsewhere
in the budget, if required. Figures released by the Ministry of Finance suggest that
SAR183.0bn of the state budget for 2016 - c21% of total budgeted spending - will be
allocated through a new ‘Budget Support Provision’ that is to be used to give more
flexibility to the budget and redirect capital and operational expenditure in line with
national priorities and to fulfil spending requirements. In our view, the commitment to
defence spending is positive for companies who have presence in the area, BAE (Buy,
600p) & Thales (Buy, €87).

BAE Systems ties to Saudi Arabia go as far back as 1966, when the company was
contracted to Lightning and Strikemaster aircraft and equipment in a programme called
the ‘Magic Carpet’. In 1985, a new government-to-government (UK/Saudi Arabia)
agreement was signed covering supply and support of Tornado, Hawk and PC-9 aircraft.
A new government-to-government agreement, known as the Saudi British Defence Co-
operation Programme, was inaugurated at the start of 2007. Salam Project, which

OS Merrill Lynch GEMs Paper #26 | 30 June 2016 75

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016185
