office, firmly crossing his arms. “There’s no reason to even talk about it,” he said again,
stubbornly.

For his part, the president did not use, though he might have, the word “Kafkaesque.”
He regarded the Russia story as senseless and inexplicable and having no basis in reality.
They were just being sucked in.

They had survived scandal during the campaign—the Billy Bush weekend—which
virtually no one in Trump’s inner circle had thought they could survive, only to be hit by
the Russia scandal. Compared to Pussy-gate, Russia seemed like the only-desperate-thing-
left-gate. What seemed unfair now was that the issue still wasn’t going away, and that,
incomprehensibly, people took it seriously. When at best it was ... nothing.

It was the media.

The White House had quickly become accustomed to media-led scandals, but they
were also used to their passing. But now this one was, frustratingly, holding on.

If there was any single piece of proof not just of media bias but of the intention of the
media to do anything it could to undermine this president, it was—in the view of the
Trump circle—this, the Russia story, what the Washington Post termed “Russia’s attack on
our political system.” (“So terribly, terribly unfair, with no proof of one vote changed,”
according to Conway.) It was insidious. It was, to them, although they didn’t put it this
way, similar to the kind of dark Clinton-like conspiracies that Republicans were more
wont to accuse liberals of—Whitewater, Benghazi, Email-gate. That is, an obsessive
narrative that leads to investigations, which lead to other investigations, and to more
obsessive no-escape media coverage. This was modern politics: blood-sport conspiracies
that were about trying to destroy people and careers.

When the comparison to Whitewater was made to Conway, she, rather proving the
point about obsessions, immediately began to argue the particulars involving Webster
Hubbell, a mostly forgotten figure in the Whitewater affair, and the culpability of the Rose
Law Firm in Arkansas, where Hillary Clinton was a partner. Everybody believed their
side’s conspiracies, while utterly, and righteously, rejecting the conspiracies leveled at
them. To call something a conspiracy was to dismiss it.

As for Bannon, who had himself promoted many conspiracies, he dismissed the Russia
story in textbook fashion: “It’s just a conspiracy theory.” And, he added, the Trump team
wasn’t capable of conspiring about anything.

OOK Ok

The Russia story was—just two weeks into the new presidency—a dividing line with each
side viewing the other as pushing fake news.

The greater White House wholly believed that the story was an invented construct of
weak if not preposterous narrative threads, with a mind-boggling thesis: We fixed the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019957
