By now Bannon believed McMaster would be out by August. He was sure he had the
president’s word on this. Done deal. “McMaster wants to send more troops to
Afghanistan, so we’re going to send him,” said a triumphal Bannon. In Bannon’s scenario,
Trump would give McMaster a fourth star and “promote” him to top military commander
in Afghanistan.

As with the chemical attack in Syria, it was Dina Powell—even as she made
increasingly determined efforts to get herself out of the White House, either on a Sheryl
Sandberg trajectory or, stopping first at a way station, as ambassador to the United Nations
—who struggled to help support the least disruptive, most keep-all-options-open
approach. In this, both because the approach seemed like the safest course and because it
was the opposite of Bannon’s course, she readily recruited Jared and Ivanka.

The solution Powell endorsed, which was designed to put the problem and the
reckoning off for another year or two or three, was likely to make the United States’
position in Afghanistan even more hopeless. Instead of sending fifty or sixty thousand
troops—which, at insupportable cost and the risk of national fury, might in fact win the
war—the Pentagon would send some much lower number, one which would arouse little
notice and merely prevent us from losing the war. In the Powell and Jarvanka view, it was
the moderate, best-case, easiest-to-sell course, and it struck just the right balance between
the military’s unacceptable scenarios: retreat and dishonor or many more troops.

Before long, a plan to send four, five, six, or (tops) seven thousand troops became the
middle-course strategy supported by the national security establishment and most
everyone else save for Bannon and the president. Powell even helped design a PowerPoint
deck that McMaster began using with the president: pictures of Kabul in the 1970s when it
still looked something like a modern city. It could be like this again, the president was
told, if we are resolute!

But even with almost everyone arrayed against him, Bannon was confident he was
winning. He had a united right-wing press with him, and, he believed, a fed-up, working-
class Trump base—its children the likely Afghanistan fodder. Most of all, he had the
president. Pissed off that he was being handed the same problem and the same options that
were handed Obama, Trump continued to heap spleen and mockery on McMaster.

Kushner and Powell organized a leak campaign in McMaster’s defense. Their narrative
was not a pro-troops defense; instead, it was about Bannon’s leaks and his use of right-
wing media to besmirch McMaster, “one of the most decorated and respected generals of
his generation.” The issue was not Afghanistan, the issue was Bannon. In this narrative, it
was McMaster, a figure of stability, against Bannon, a figure of disruption. It was the New
York Times and the Washington Post, who came to the defense of McMaster, against
Breitbart and its cronies and satellites.

It was the establishment and never-Trumpers against the America-first Trumpkins. In

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020085
