NAUTIL.US | TEXT SETS

Even if each outlier case only applies to 3 or 7 per-
cent of one type of cancer, as more cases are solved,
the benefits quickly add up. “We’re talking about
small subsets of patients that together make a radi-
cal change,” says Funda Meric-Bernstam, chair of the
Department of Investigational Cancer Therapeutics at
MD Anderson, who leads the unusual responders pro-
gram. In some cases, existing cancer drugs can simply
be repurposed, such as discover-
ing that an immunosuppressant
drug works for certain bladder
cancers. Or 1t might mean find-
ing new life for an experimental
drug that had been abandoned.
If Conley and Doroshow can
pinpoint who might be helped
by an abandoned drug, a phar-
maceutical company might
have to do just one or two fur-
ther studies to get that drug
approved for routine use.

The future might look some-
thing like what’s been gomg on
for several years at the Genome
Institute of Washington Univer-
sity, where genome sequenc-
ing 1s being used to help people
with relapsed cancers and who
have run out of options. The
project puts insights from stud-
ies like Solit’s into practice, analyzing a patient’s tumor
to determine whether currently available drugs might
target the troublemaker mutations. Combining whole
genome sequencing, exome sequencing, and RNA
expression analysis—what Washington University pro-
fessor of genetics and Genome Institute co-director
Elaine Mardis calls the “Maserati approach”—the team
compares a comprehensive genetic profile against a
database of drugs that target specific gene variants,
looking for a match.

If there is a match, the results can be impressive,
as was the case with a young Washington University
doctor with leukemia, Lukas Wartman, who had suf-
fered two relapses. In his case, analysis revealed that
a gene called FLT3 was expressing more RNA than
normal. A drug that inhibits this gene, usually used in

39

kidney cancer, sent his cancer into remission. Wash-
ington University now has a special genetic test for
patients with his type of leukemia.

Just recently, Solit’s group solved another excep-
tional responder mystery—a case of ureteral cancer
eliminated with a combination of old and new drugs.
The old drug is a standard chemotherapy treatment
that prevents DNA from unwinding, which it must do
in order to duplicate itself dur-
ing cell division. The new one
sensitizes cells to the effects of
radiation. This patient tumed
out to have a mutation in RADSO,
involved in repairing broken
DNA strands (badly repaired
DNA can lead to uncontrolled
cancerous growth). Here, too,
the outlier finding may lead to
a new treatment, since about
4 percent of the other tumors
Solit has looked at have muta-
tions that affect part of the
RAD50 complex. “To look at
these individuals’ cancers can
tell us a lot more than just a
random case of cancer,” says
Solit. “There’s a phenotype—a
response—that gives you infor-
mation about the genes.”

Solit is now making a quick,
reliable test for the TSC1 mutation to single out people
with bladder cancer who might be helped by everoli-
mus, and 1s planning a new study to test the drug in
them. And the original outlier, the woman with blad-
der cancer? Three years later, she’s still on everolimus
and still having a “complete response,” Solit says. She’s
doingfine. ©

kat mcgowan is acontributing editor at Discover magazine
and an independent journalist based in Berkeley, Calif.,
and New York City.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015499
