of direct payments for tuition and medical expenses are subject to GST but for this special exclusion.
Also, although HEETs have been written about in planning publications, it is unclear how often they are
actually implemented: donors who use their GST exemption for multi-generational trusts often feel that
they've done “enough” for those lower generations, and may lack the charitable intent necessary for the
HEET to work. In addition, given life’s uncertainties, trust creators may be reluctant to limit trust
distributions to tuition and medical expenses only.

Tax “carried” (profits) interests as ordinary income. In exchange for their services on behalf of
hedge funds and private equity funds, managers of these entities are often compensated with what are
called “carried interests,” or profits from the entity. Because these profits interests are structured as
partnership interests, they pass through long-term capital gain to the partners/managers, and are
therefore taxed at preferential rates. The proposal would not recharacterize the treatment of a partner’s
investment in the entity, but would tax as ordinary income what is viewed as compensation for the
partner’s investment management services for the partnership. Thus, a partner’s share of income in an
“investment services partnership interest” (ISPI), regardless of how the income is characterized at the
partnership level, would be taxed as ordinary income, and would also be subject to self-employment tax.
An ISPI is an interest in future profits of an “investment partnership”; an investment partnership is one in
which substantially all of the entity’s assets are investment-type assets, such as certain securities, real
estate, interests in partnerships, commodities, cash or cash equivalents, or derivative contracts related
to those assets.

Tighten up conservation easements. Donors of conservation easements typically get a charitable
deduction for the permanent restrictions they put on property that will be used exclusively for
conservation purposes. Recent court decisions have upheld large deductions for easements preserving
recreational amenities, including golf courses, surrounded by upscale homes. These contributions have
raised concerns that the deductions claimed are excessive and seem to promote private interests rather
than bona fide conservation activities. The proposal would prohibit a deduction for a conservation
easement on a golf course. A second proposal would address historic preservation easements, and
would disallow a deduction for restricting the “upward development” of an historic building, since such
development is typically already restricted under local ordinances. In addition, conservation easements
on buildings listed in the National Register would need to comply with the same (more stringent) rules
applicable to buildings in a registered historic district.

Limit protracted payout for non-spouse beneficiaries of IRAs and retirement plans. Under current
law, a non-spouse beneficiary of an IRA or a retirement plan (such as a 401(k)) must begin taking
“required minimum distributions” (RMDs) from the account the year after the account owner’s death, but
can spread those distributions out over her life expectancy. Thus, if widowed Mom names Child as
beneficiary of her IRA, for example, and Child is 40 when Mom dies, Child’s RMDs can last over 40
years, assuming those are the only distributions Child takes from the account. The proposal would
change this rule, and in general would require that non-spouse beneficiaries withdraw the balance of the
retirement account within five years after the owner’s death. (Certain exceptions would apply for
“eligible” beneficiaries, such as those who are disabled, chronically ill or a child under the age of
majority.) The reason for the proposed change is that retirement accounts were intended to benefit
owners and their spouses, and not heirs such as children and grandchildren.

Comments. It is not surprising to see this proposal, as last year, something similar was in a highway
bill, but was then pulled. Given the need for revenue, limiting the generous protracted payouts currently

permitted for non-spouse beneficiaries seems like low-hanging fruit. If enacted, the proposal would
potentially make it less attractive for owners of substantial traditional IRAs to convert that IRA into a Roth

Tax Topics 04/29/13 4

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022364
