10

MICHAEL D. SEO, CFA

Leveling the Playing Field

Investment opportunities in the
changing South Korean landscape

mostly agricultural economy to a powerful exporter with

the 11th highest GDP in the world. Its growth has been
built on the back of its chaebol system — conglomerates of
companies that are family-controlled, often spread across
multiple industries. While this structure has served Korea well
in terms of rapidly developing its industrial base, it has also
been associated with ongoing governance issues. The risks
associated with investing in Korea have historically resulted
from its stock market having a much lower valuation than those
of comparable economies.

S outh Korea has grown over the last 50 years from a poor

As an example of recent governance issues, consider that Chey
Tae-Won, chairman of the SK chaebol, had been serving a four-
year prison sentence for embezzling $40 million from the SK
companies. He was pardoned by former President Park Geun-
Hye in the summer of 2015 and soon found himself back in the
familiar leadership role of his family conglomerate. Political
actions such as this pardon or nepotism within large publicly

CHART 1: CHAEBOL % SHARE OF THE KOSPI INDEX

60%
50%
40%
30%
20%

10%

0%
Market Cap

Ms Samsung ME Hyundai Me SK

GLOBAL FORESIGHT THIRD QUAPTER 2017

es |G Ma | otic

Director of Equity
Research

212.549.5232

mseo@rockco.com

traded corporations are common, if not expected, in Korea.
Throughout its history, the nation’s gyrating politics and
powerful businesses maintained a symbiotic relationship that
propelled tremendous GDP growth while tarnishing the
political reputation of a nation. The cultural and regulatory
disregard of misconduct is at the root of Korea's corporate
governance, especially among the chaebols.

The five most recognizable chaebols as shown in CHART 1
(Samsung, Hyundai, SK, LG, and Lotte) collectively represent
over 50% of the market capitalization of the Korea Composite
Stock Price Index (KOSPI) and 47% of its revenues. Samsung
Electronics alone represents a 21% share of the KOSPI market
capitalization and 21% share of employees which is emblematic
of the chaebols’ influence in Korean society.

During Park Geun-Hye’s 2012 presidential election campaign
and political career, Ms. Park had been critical of past presidents
who had abused the power to pardon individuals and sought to
limit the government’s role in granting pardons. Her decision

Revenue

Employees

Source: Bloomberg

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012088
