NAUTIL.US | TEXT SETS

4. What concept is at work in the ion drive? (Hint:
what is conserved?)

5. What other travel options work on this principle?

6. How much momentum does an electron fired
from a gun have?

DISCUSSION QUESTIONS

1. Why not take a traditional rocket to Alpha
Centauri?

2. Which of the propulsion meturds listed 1s most
likely to succeed? Would any be used together?

3. Would it be worth going if it took generations?

4. How far away is the next-nearest star?

ACTIVITIES

1. Research and create a brochure or ad enticing
astronauts to make the trip. What would they eat?
What psychological qualities would they need? If
robots were sent, how would they be fixed? What
kind of data could they expect to collect?

2. Propose another method of traveling to Alpha
Centauri.

ADDITIONAL MULTIMEDIA

1. Voyager I Leaves the Solar System
(The Guardian) 1 MIN 45 SEC
A quick explanation of where Voyager 1 is, and
how scientists know its location: http://www.
theguardian.com/science/video/2013/sep/13/
voyager- | -leaves-solar-system-video

2. New Mars Rover Powered by Plutonium
(Space.com) 2 MIN 30 SEC
An introduction to the nuclear battery on
board the Mars Curiosity Rover, and the
advantages of not using solar power (as with
past missions): https://www.youtube.com/
watch?v=1JOPW8aAcgFt

WHERE THIS FITS IN THE CURRICULUM

Structure and Properties of Matter (HS-PS1-8) Develop
models to illustrate the changes in the composition
of the nucleus of the atom and the energy released
during the processes of fission, fusion, and radioac-
tivedecay.

Forces and Interactions (HS-PS2-1) Analyze data to sup-
port the claim that Newton’s second law of motion
describes the mathematical relationship among the
net force on a macroscopic object, its mass, and its
acceleration.

Forces and Interactions (HS-PS2-2) Use mathematical
representations to support the claim that the total
momentum of a system of objects 1s conserved when
there is no net force on the system.

Engineering Design (HS-ETS1-3) Evaluate a solution
to a complex real-world problem based on priori-
tized criteria and trade-offs that account for a range
of constraints, including cost, safety, reliability, and
aesthetics, as well as possible social, cultural, and
environmental impacts.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015466
