named him after the post I wrote when I met him: There It Is.)

KOK ok

Fear, Loathing, and S&M Sluthood in San Francisco

Since I was small, I've loved the Van Gogh painting Starry Night.” I loved the cypresses
in particular: winding spiral trees, hallucination trees. They were so unlike other trees I'd
seen that I thought Van Gogh made them up, and so when I first saw cypresses years
later, I was stunned: the hallucination trees had been imported into my world. I'd like to
think that my world turned a little bit sideways forever, when I first saw cypresses, but
I'm probably being melodramatic. (I'm good at that.)

San Francisco has cypresses, and a lot of other hallucinations, too. The city is full of
angles, vantages, transitions, unceasing changing views: it feels, at times, like an
unsolvable puzzle. A forested path leads darkly under a bridge, suddenly opens upon a
manicured lawn with a white lace conservatory. A cement staircase rises through a
narrow outlet, resolving itself step by step into a slice of brightly painted Victorian
facade. I walked once with a friend alongside an ocean road, pacing through thick fog,
and arrived at a dirt path that I insisted on following; thirty seconds later we stumbled

upon extraordinary ruins.

San Francisco. Halcyon city, heartbreak city. Cypress city. The place I come to recover
from being torn apart and, it seems, sometimes the place where I get torn apart again.
This is okay with me, because nothing is more fun than overanalyzing strong emotions. I
am not even kidding.

te OK ok

I returned from Africa recently; paused briefly in my adopted city of Chicago to collect
my thoughts; and then went to the Burning Man Arts Festival, thence to San Francisco.
This is my version of emotional decompression, and it worked! I feel much more
centered now. But part of decompressing, for me, was specifically going out to a lot of
dates and BDSM parties and pushing my own boundaries, which carries its own potential
decompressable risks.

At the time of this story, it had been a couple of months in San Francisco, and I was
leaving soon. I'd had an assortment of adventures, but there were two guys in particular
who I was excited about. Not necessarily in a long-term way -- I'm not in this for the
white picket fence and the 2.5 kids (or at least, not yet) -- but definitely in a wow-I-have-
to-control-myself-or-I'll-come-off-as-kind-of-puppyish way. New Relationship Energy: it
is such a mind trick, such a delicious head-trip. You are the perfect drug.

I had to control myself less when I first hooked up with The Artist: possibly the most
postmodern individual I've ever met, possibly the most creative, who I've loosely been
friends with for six whole years, and who has never ceased to fascinate me. It is hard for
me to meet people who keep me thinking, but The Artist never disappoints. If anything,
our problem was shifting a cerebral connection into a sexual one: the first time we made
out, I absolutely had to interrupt the proceedings because I'd forgotten to tell him about
this great sociology paper. It was okay to show how much I liked him because we'd

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018526
