Important information

IRS Circular 230 Disclosure: JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its affiliates
do not provide tax advice. Accordingly, any discussion of U.S. tax
matters contained herein (including any attachments) is not intended
or written to be used, and cannot be used, in connection with the
promotion, marketing or recommendation by anyone unaffiliated with
JPMorgan Chase & Co. of any of the matters addressed herein or for
the purpose of avoiding U.S. tax-related penalties.

Each recipient of this presentation, and each agent thereof, may disclose to any
person, without limitation, the U.S. income and franchise tax treatment and tax
structure of the transactions described herein and may disclose all materials of
any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) provided to each recipient
insofar as the materials relate to a U.S. income or franchise tax strategy
provided to such recipient by JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries.

Bank products and services are offered by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and its
affiliates. Securities products and services are offered by J.P. Morgan Securities
LLC, member NYSE, FINRA and SIPC.

This material is not intended as an offer or solicitation for the purchase or sale
of any financial instrument. J.P. Morgan Securities LLC or its brokerage affiliates
may hold a position or act as market maker in the financial instruments of any
issuer discussed herein or act as an underwriter, placement agent, advisor or
lender to such issuer. The views and strategies described herein may not be
suitable for all investors. The discussion of loans or other extensions of credit in
this material is for illustrative purposes only. No commitment to lend by J.P.
Morgan should be construed or implied. This material is distributed with the
understanding that we are not rendering accounting, legal or tax advice. Estate
planning requires legal assistance. You should consult with your independent
advisors concerning such matters.

We believe the information contained in this material to be reliable but do not
warrant its accuracy or completeness. Opinions, estimates, and investment
strategies and views expressed in this document constitute our judgment based
on current market conditions and are subject to change without notice. This
material should not be regarded as research or a J.P. Morgan research report.
Opinions expressed herein may differ from the opinions expressed by other
areas of J.P. Morgan, including research. The investment strategies and views
stated here may differ from those expressed for other purposes or in other
contexts by other J.P. Morgan market strategists.

J.P. Morgan Securities LLC may act as a market maker in markets relevant to
structured products or option products and may engage in hedging or other
operations in such markets relevant to its structured products or options
exposures. Structured products and options are not insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), the Federal Reserve Board, or any other
governmental agency.

J.P Morgan

In discussion of options and other strategies, results and risks are based solely on
hypothetical examples cited; actual results and risks will vary depending on specific
circumstances. Investors are urged to consider carefully whether option or option-
related products in general, as well as the products or strategies discussed herein
are suitable to their needs. In actual transactions, the client’s counterparty for OTC
derivatives applications is JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., London branch. For a copy
of the “Characteristics and Risks of Standardized Options” booklet, please contact
your J.P. Morgan Advisor.

Real estate, hedge funds, and other private investments may not be suitable for all
individual investors, may present significant risks, and may be sold or redeemed at
more or less than the original amount invested. Private investments are offered
only by offering memoranda, which more fully describe the possible risks. There
are no assurances that the stated investment objectives of any investment product
will be met. Hedge funds (or funds of hedge funds): often engage in leveraging
and other speculative investment practices that may increase the risk of investment
loss; can be highly illiquid; are not required to provide periodic pricing or valuation
information to investors; may involve complex tax structures and delays in
distributing important tax information; are not subject to the same regulatory
requirements as mutual funds; and often charge high fees. Further, any number of
conflicts of interest may exist in the context of the management and/or operation
of any hedge fund. Structured products involve derivatives. The investment
decision is yours but you should not invest in any structured product unless you
fully understand and are willing to assume the risks associated with it.

JPMorgan Funds are distributed by JPMorgan Distribution Services, Inc., which is an
affiliate of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Affiliates of JPMorgan Chase & Co. receive fees
for providing various services to the funds. Call JPMorgan Distribution Services at 1-
800-480-4111 or visit www.jpmorganfunds.com for the prospectus. Investors should
carefully consider the investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses of the
mutual funds before investing. The prospectus contains this and other information
about the mutual fund and should be read carefully before investing.

As applicable, portions of mutual fund performance information may be provided
by Lipper, a Reuters company, subject to the following: © 2012 Reuters. All rights
reserved. Any copying, republication or redistribution of Lipper content, including
by caching, framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior
written consent of Lipper. Lipper shall not be liable for any errors or delays in the
content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon.

Past performance is no guarantee of future results.
Additional information is available upon request.
© 2012 JPMorgan Chase & Co.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022358
