4.2.12
WC: 191694

OJ’s glove

I happen to be on the way to Australia to deliver a talk. There was a stopover in Los Angeles and
I decided to pay a visit to the OJ trial. My usual role was to provide legal briefs and memoranda
from my office in Cambridge on two or three occasions I appeared in court to argue motions, but
these appearances were rare and episodic. On this day, I had no real business to conduct in the
courtroom, but when my son picked me up at the airport, I suggested that we drop by and simply
say hello to the legal team and OJ, and join the legal team for lunch. My son turned on the radio,
which was carrying the trial live. The man on the witness stand was an expert in gloves, He was
testifying in the most boring and tedious matter ever, about the stitching in gloves. We practically
fell asleep in the car listening to the tedium. Elon begged me not to go to the courthouse and
continue to listen to this boring testimony, but I insisted. Upon entering the courthouse I sat
down next to the lawyers and my son sat in ....within 5 minutes of our appearance in court,
Prosecutor Dardin got up and asked to have OJ try on the glove. It was about the dumbest ploy
any prosecutor could have tried, especially since under CA law, he could have insisted that OJ try
on the glove outside the presence of the jury, before he decided to conduct this experiment in
front of the jury. But Dardin was not one for legal subtlety. OJ walked right in front of me, tried
on the glove, and in the most dramatic moment of the most month trial, walked in front of the
jury and showed them that it didn’t fit. He even “testified ‘it’s too small.’” [get exact quote]

Shortly after this dramatic moment, the lunch recess was called and I went to OJ’s holding cell
behind the courtroom. I told him that it was likely that they would ask him to try on the glove
without the latex underglove he wore during the courtroom experiment. He assured me that it
still wouldn’t fit.

My grandmother would have said, “it was bashert’”—that is ordained—that I would be in the
courtroom just at the moment that led to the famous closing argument “If it doesn’t fit, you must
acquit.”

386

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017473
