The inaugural, largely written by Bannon and Stephen Miller, had shocked Jared and
Ivanka. But a particular peculiarity of the Trump White House, compounding its
messaging problems, was its lack of a speech-writing team. There was the literate and
highly verbal Bannon, who did not really do any actual writing himself; there was Stephen
Miller, who did little more than produce bullet points. Beyond that, it was pretty much just
catch as catch can. There was a lack of coherent message because there was nobody to
write a coherent message—just one more instance of disregarding political craft.

Ivanka grabbed firm control of the joint session draft and quickly began pulling in
contributions from the Jarvanka camp. In the event, the president behaved exactly as they
hoped. Here was an upbeat Trump, a salesman Trump, a nothing-to-be-afraid-of Trump, a
happy-warrior Trump. Jared, Ivanka, and all their allies judged it a magnificent night,
agreeing that finally, amid the pageantry—Mr. Speaker, the President of the United States
—the president really did seem presidential. And for once, even the media agreed.

The hours following the president’s speech were Trump’s best time in the White
House. It was, for at least one news cycle, a different presidency. For a moment, there was
even something like a crisis of conscience among parts of the media: Had this president
been grievously misread? Had the media, the biased media, missed well-intentioned
Donald Trump? Was he finally showing his better nature? The president himself spent
almost two full days doing nothing but reviewing his good press. He had arrived, finally,
at a balmy shore (with appreciative natives on the beach). What’s more, the success of the
speech confirmed the Jared and Ivanka strategy: look for common ground. It also
confirmed Ivanka’s understanding of her father: he just wanted to be loved. And, likewise,
it confirmed Bannon’s worst fear: Trump, in his true heart, was a marshmallow.

The Trump on view the night of the joint session was not just a new Trump, but a
declaration of a new West Wing brain trust (which Ivanka was making plans to formally
join in just a few weeks). Jared and Ivanka, with an assist from their Goldman Sachs
advisers, were changing the message, style, and themes of the White House. “Reaching
out” was the new theme.

Bannon, hardly helping his cause, cast himself as a Cassandra to anyone who would
listen. He insisted that only disaster would come from trying to mollify your mortal
enemies. You need to keep taking the fight to them; you’re fooling yourself if you believe
that compromise is possible. The virtue of Donald Trump—the virtue, anyway, of Donald
Trump to Steve Bannon—was that the cosmopolitan elite was never going to accept him.
He was, after all, Donald Trump, however much you shined him up.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019995
