be fun while showing—in no uncertain terms—that the rules most follow are nothing more than social
conventions. There are no legal boundaries stopping you from creating an ideal life ... or just being self-
entertained and causing mass confusion.

So, relaxing in public. Sounds easy, right? ’m somewhat famous for relaxing in style to get a laugh
out of friends. Here is the deal, and I don’t care if you’re male or female, 20 or 60, Mongolian or
Martian. I call the following a “time-out.”

Once per day for two days, simply lie down in the middle of a crowded public place at some point.
Lunchtime is ideal. It can be a well-trafficked sidewalk, the middle of a popular Starbucks, or a popular
bar. There is no real technique involved. Just lie down and remain silent on the ground for about ten
seconds, and then get up and continue on with whatever you were doing before. I used to do this at
nightclubs to clear space for break-dancing circles. No one responded to pleading, but going catatonic on
the ground did the trick.

Don’t explain it at all. If someone asks about it after the fact (he or she will be too confused to ask you
while you’re doing it for 10 seconds), just respond, “I just felt like lying down for a second.” The less
you say, the funnier and more gratifying this will be. Do it on solo missions for the first two days, and
then feel free to do it when with a group of friends. It’s a riot.

It isn’t enough to think outside the box. Thinking is passive. Get used to acting outside the box.

>» TOOLS AND TRICKS

Looking Huge— Virtual Receptionist and IVR

> Angel ( www.angel.com )

Get an 800 number with professional voice menu (voice recognition departments, extensions, etc.) in five
minutes. Incredible.

» Ring Central ( www.ringcentral.com )

Offers toll-free numbers, call screening and forwarding, voicemail, fax send and receive, and message
alerts, all online.

CD/DVD Duplication, Printing, and Product Packaging

» AVC Corporation ( www.avccorp.com )

= SF Video ( www.sfvideo.com )

Local Fulfillment (fewer than 20 units shipped per week)

= Mailing Fulfillment Service Association ( www.mfsanet.org )
End-to-End Fulfillment Companies (more than 20 units shipped per week, $500+ setup)

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013932
