ACKRELL
CAPITAL CHAPTER IIl_ Cannabis Industry Segmentation

across cannabis varieties and even across flowers from the same plant, which limits the accuracy of lab-
oratory tests conducted on a sample of plant material. Cannabis concentrates, however, are generally
homogeneous and their active elements can be more precisely measured and reported so as to facilitate

standardization of products and accurate dosing by consumers.

The following chart shows the combined relative sales by category of concentrates for Colorado,
Oregon and Washington for the three months ended September 30, 2017.

Concentrates Sales by Category: Q3 2017

6%
18%

16%

17%

@ Live resin B Oils @ Other concentrates @ Shatter © Vape oil mw Wax

Source: BDS Analytics

Concentrates are prepared with extraction techniques that fall into two general categories, solvent-
based extraction and solvent-free extraction. Solvent-based extraction techniques include the use of
hydrocarbon, carbon dioxide (CO) or ethanol solutions to chemically isolate cannabinoids and other
active compounds. Solvent-based extraction can be performed relatively quickly and can produce high
yields and customized formulations, but requires the use of expensive equipment and skilled labor and
also may leave residual solvents in the resulting concentrate. Solvent-free techniques include the use of
filters, ice water or heat to physically separate parts of the cannabis plant with high cannabinoid con-
centrations. Generally, solvent-free extraction is inexpensive and can be performed without specialized
equipment, but it is also slow and labor-intensive and it typically results in low yields.

Hydrocarbon Extraction

Hydrocarbon extraction is a process whereby a hydrocarbon solvent (typically butane or propane)
chemically extracts cannabinoids, terpenes and other compounds from cannabis plant matter. The
solvent is then purged using heat and pressure, leaving a concentrated form of the extracted com-
pounds. Because hydrocarbon extraction involves a risk of explosion and usually leaves behind residual
solvents, regulations are becoming more restrictive in specifying where and how the process can occur
and prescribing acceptable levels of residual solvents in the resulting products. Concentrates prepared
through hydrocarbon extraction—including BHO, shatter and wax—are popular with some con-
sumers because hydrocarbon extraction generally preserves terpenes and the source plant’s aroma and
flavor.

© 2017 Ackrell Capital, LLC | Member FINRA/SIPC 47

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024683
