Snowden’s Choices | 283

actions here, including his contacts with Russian officials in Hong
Kong, speak louder than his words.

Just as he believed the Chinese intelligence service could protect
him in Hong Kong from a physical attack by agents of the United
States, he could assume that the FSB could protect him from them
in Moscow. He was not entirely naive about its capabilities. During
his service in the CIA, he had taken a monthlong training course at
the CIA’s “farm” at Fort Peary, in which counterintelligence offi-
cers taught about the capabilities of the Russian security services. He
couldn’t have believed that Russia would allow a defector from the
NSA who claimed to have had access to the NSA’s sources in Russia
and China to leave Moscow before its security services obtained that
information.

It is not uncommon for a defector to change sides in order to find
a better life for himself in another country. Some defectors flee to
escape a repressive government or to find one in which they believe
they are more closely attuned to its values. Russia, however, is ordi-
narily not the country of choice for someone such as Snowden seek-

© ing greater civil liberties and personal freedom. So why did Snowden ©
choose Russia for his new life?

The four choices just discussed that Snowden made, taken to-
gether, show that Snowden was determined to succeed where others
before him had failed. He not only wanted to take full credit for
stealing files from the NSA but also wanted to escape any American
retribution for his act. His decision suggests to me a highly intelli-
gent, carefully calculating man who was hell-bent on finding a new
life for himself in a foreign country. A common thread that runs
through these four choices is a willingness to do whatever was nec-
essary to achieve this new life, including disregarding his oath to
protect secrets and instead transporting them on thumb drives to
a foreign country. To protect himself, he was also willing to rely on
the influence of adversary intelligence services in Hong Kong and
put himself in the hands of Russian authorities in Moscow. He was
also willing to use some of his classified documents as a medium of
exchange, if not bait, with journalists to get the public attention he
sought.

These choices paid off for Snowden, the new hero of millions. In

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.indd 283 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019771
