ACKRELL
CAPITAL

Cannabis Investment Report | December 2017

Cannabis Flower

Cannabis flower, or “bud,” is the most popular product among cannabis consumers. Cannabis flower
is usually green (although some varieties have a purple or orange hue), slightly sticky to the touch and
spongy in density. The flower has a strong, pungent aroma owing primarily to the trichomes on the
flowers, which contain the highest concentrations of cannabinoids and terpenes of any part of the
plant.

HEADWATERS ||.

100% Pesticide and Residual-Free

Branded Cannabis Flower

There are thousands of different cannabis varieties, each with its own cannabinoid and terpene
profile and corresponding aroma, flavor and potency. Leading cultivators are recognized each year in
contests and ceremonies for their indica, sativa and hybrid varieties. Award-winning varieties —which
are often given unique identifying names—frequently become the most in demand by consumers.
OG Kush,” “Pineapple Express” and “Sour

» ce

Popular varieties today include “Blue Dream,” “Gelato,
Diesel.”

The flower of a typical cannabis variety produced for human consumption contains approximately
15% to 30% THC, approximately 0.1% to 1% CBD and nominal levels of other cannabinoids. Due
to advancements in cultivation techniques, THC levels in cannabis flower available today are generally
much higher than in the past.

Concentrates

Cannabis can be processed into a variety of concentrates, many of which are sold as finished products
for smoking or vaporizing and some of which can be infused into other products, such as edibles and
topicals. Concentrates include CO, oil, butane hash oil or “BHO,” shatter, wax, live resin, budder,
kief, ice water hash and rosin.

Concentrates are quickly becoming popular for a host of reasons. Some believe vaporizing or ingest-
ing concentrates are healthier methods of cannabis consumption than smoking plant material. Extract-
ing cannabinoids from the cannabis plant produces higher-potency dosing (THC content can exceed
80% in concentrates), enables custom formulations and flavor profiles, and facilitates consumption
that is more convenient and discreet than smoking. The concentration of specific cannabinoids varies

46 © 2017 Ackrell Capital, LLC | Member FINRA/SIPC

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024682
