20 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

nephew of the famous American mathematician Edward Kasner, and
subsequently the inspiration for the name ‘Google; the Internet search
engine.

Ray Kurzweil, the prolific inventor and futurologist, is fascinated
by this exponential growth. Exponential curves grow slowly to start with
but they pick up speed rapidly and, in the end, growth tends towards
infinity. We are all painfully acquainted with one example of exponential
growth: The common cold. Each infected cell in our body releases
virus particles into the blood which infect further cells, leading to an
exponential increase. This makes us feel rotten. Luckily our immune
system can also respond exponentially, albeit somewhat delayed, so we
survive. In the case of computer power there is no opposing immune
system fighting back, so Kurzweil thinks computers will achieve almost
limitless processing power; perhaps even within our lifetime. He thinks
this will lead to some interesting consequences, for example, allowing
people to live forever! Far-fetched? Follow his argument.

The two most important elements in keeping us alive are medical
imaging, to see what is wrong; and genetic engineering, to fix those
things. Both are improving in line with digital technology, doubling
in power every 18 months. As computers get better at seeing into our
bodies, and our ability to sequence and synthesize spare parts improves,
we will reach a point where we can fix almost any problem. Kurzweil
figures technology is improving and his body is decaying at just the right
rate to mean by the time he needs heavy duty medical intervention it will
be available. Barring a traffic accident or mad-axe-murderer, he should
live forever. Even if his calculation is slightly off, the next generation will
definitely have this option.

You might dismiss this as science fiction, but some amazing things
are already happening. Recently a female patient in the USA suffering
from bone cancer had her jaw replaced with a 3D printed component.
Doctors were able to scan her head and take an image of the good side of
her jaw, flip it right to left within the computer and repair any problems
they saw. Then they sent the image to a 3D printer. The printer made a
new jaw from tungsten powder, which was fused in a kiln. The final stage
was to cover the metal part with an inert bone-like substance to give
the human body a scaffolding on which to build real bone. They then
performed the operation to remove her old jaw and replace it with the
new one: result, brand new healthy jaw.

There are some practical limits to the power of computers on the
horizon. Currently, the wires in a silicon chip are about twenty-two
nanometers wide. That’s around a thousandth of the width of a human

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015710
