creativity and he said that this class was certainly not about that. | disliked and
feared him. He seemed to feel (and wrote a note to my parents to the effect) that,
being “too arrogant” | needed to be “brought down a peg or two.” | had gotten the
best grades in the first two exams and was enjoying the role of after school tutor for
some of my friends. | suspect | was getting pretty egotistical. In class, | found myself
eagerly shouting out answers without holding up my hand, behavior that Mr. Kirby
met with his characteristic look of fatigued disgust. Twice | was thrown out of class
for my introjections. He then began to give me problems that | could not do, for
which | was not prepared. This left me standing at the blackboard until the end of
the hour, after all the rest of the students had solved theirs and sat down. On
parent’s night, Mr. Kirby told my father that | needed more “social and intellectual
discipline.”

Inspired and personally directed hard work and socially defined correct
behavior were not synonymous to this arrogant 13 year old who had already
brought chagrin to his mother, the conservatory classical piano instructor, with his
satirical pianistic jazzy composition called “How High the Moonlight Sonata.” | was
also a secret reader of the book on the top back shelf in my father’s library by Jack
Hanley called “How to Make Mary; A Gentlemen’s Guide to Seduction.” In Mr.
Kirby’s class, inspired by the book, | sometimes reached behind me, through the
crack in my desk seat, to caress the inside part of the long smooth legs and
sometimes moist panties of a well developed, tall and beautiful brunette girl behind
me. | was never caught and she pretended that nothing was happening. In fact, she
never talked to me outside of class. | felt then, vaguely, and now, more specifically,
that a content enriched, instinctually titillated and excited unconscious could lead
me to the solutions of intellectual challenges if it were both sufficiently indulged and
untrammeled, left alone in its work of being itself. Mr. Kirby did not see things that
way.

Since then, among my graduate and post-doctoral students in the
neurosciences, | have learned that the Mr. Kirby’s of modern American educational
practice have ruined generations of potential mathematicians and physical

scientists. Worse, they have created generations of very bright math phobics who

161

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013661
