helped cushion portfolio returns when markets declined. We won’t know until the data comes in, but we expect the same
to happen this time.

[5] The “Eye on the Market” has endlessly chronicled this year the fissures which are now affecting financial markets:
European sovereign risk and inadequate bank capitalization; weak labor compensation as an Achilles heel of the US
profits recovery, given its negative impact on spending; the political divide in Congress over how to deal with falling
government revenue and rising entitlement spending; inflation risks in Asia and Latin America and the resulting need for
more policy tightening; and the mixed track record of low interest rates to sustainability solve structural problems. The
cover of the 2011 Outlook (a printing press, out of control) expressed our concern regarding a recovery built upon a
stimulus machine. I would contrast this with the cover of a competitor’s 2011 publication, which had a picture of George
Washington crossing the Delaware, with the caption “America’s structural resilience, fortitude and ingenuity will carry
the economy and financial markets in 2011 —- and beyond”. Our job is not to point to where we would like the
financial markets to go, but rather to point to where they might end up. It’s like the scene in Oliver Stone’s Nixon,
when Nixon looks up at a portrait of JFK and says, “When they look at you, they see what they want to be. When they look
at me, they see what they are.” Our job is to see financial markets for what they are.

[6] All that said, we have lessons to learn here.

Too many of our investment discussions this year focused on the negative real return characteristics of
cash, and why to reduce it. In a world of deflation risk on financial assets (rather than of goods and
services), cash retains substantial option value at times like these.

We could have connected the dots more aggressively on our views on weak growth and easy monetary
policy, and owned more gold. While we have had rising price forecasts for gold and owned it in
portfolios, we did not have large enough allocations.

Given the all-time high of US government transfers to households and negative real interest rates, we
should not have interpreted positive economic data earlier this year as being highly representative of the
true run-rate of the US economy. The same goes for the global economy, which has been the beneficiary
of a lot of stimulus that is now fading, for a variety of economic and political reasons.

Great corporate profits are no guarantee against a problem in financial markets. Corporate profits and P/E
multiples were fine in June 2007, but rested on top of a systemic problem in private sector credit markets
and private sector balance sheets. This year, strong corporate profits and low P/E multiples sit on top of
systemic problems in public sector finances.

[7] In the wreckage, as usual, there are opportunities, and we will be reviewing them with you in the days ahead. There
is a benefit to having held back on our firepower this year. With risk to spend held in reserve, there are oversold assets
with considering, particularly among multinationals with strong balance sheets, high dividends and which trade at very
low multiples, something we reviewed earlier in the week.”

Michael Cembalest
Chief Investment Officer

The material contained herein is intended as a general market commentary. Opinions expressed herein are those of Michael Cembalest and may differ from those of
other J.P. Morgan employees and affiliates. This information in no way constitutes J.P. Morgan research and should not be treated as such. Further, the views
expressed herein may differ from that contained in J.P. Morgan research reports. The above summary/prices/quotes/statistics have been obtained from sources
deemed to be reliable, but we do not guarantee their accuracy or completeness, any yield referenced is indicative and subject to change. Past performance is not a
guarantee of future results. References to the performance or character of our portfolios generally refer to our Balanced Model Portfolios constructed by J.P.
Morgan. It is a proxy for client performance and may not represent actual transactions or investments in client accounts. The model portfolio can be implemented
across brokerage or managed accounts depending on the unique objectives of each client and is serviced through distinct legal entities licensed for specific

activities. Bank, trust and investment management services are provided by J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N_A, and its affiliates. Securities are offered through J.P.
Morgan Securities LLC (JPMS), Member NYSE, FINRA and SIPC. Securities products purchased or sold through JPMS are not insured by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (FDIC); are not deposits or other obligations of its bank or thrift affiliates and are not guaranteed by its bank or thrift affiliates; and are
subject to investment risks, including possible loss of the principal invested. Not all investment ideas referenced are suitable for all investors. Speak with your J.P.
Morgan Representative concerning your personal situation. This material is not intended as an offer or solicitation for the purchase or sale of any financial
instrument. Private Investments may engage in leveraging and other speculative practices that may increase the risk of investment loss, can be highly illiquid, are not
required to provide periodic pricing or valuations to investors and may involve complex tax structures and delays in distributing important tax information. Typically
such investment ideas can only be offered to suitable investors through a confidential offering memorandum which fully describes all terms, conditions, and risks.

IRS Circular 230 Disclosure: JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its affiliates do not provide tax advice. Accordingly, any discussion of U.S. tax matters contained herein
(including any attachments) is not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, in connection with the promotion, marketing or recommendation by anyone

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031157
