they regarded as functionaries, and their job was to support the White House’s goals,
which included their goals and interests.

Spicer, ever ridiculed in the media for his cockamamie defense of the White House and
a seeming dumb loyalty, had been judged by the president, quite from the inauguration, to
be not loyal enough and not nearly as aggressive as he should be in Trump’s defense. Or,
in Jared and Ivanka’s view, in his family’s defense. “What does Spicer’s forty-member
comm staff actually do?” was a persistent First Family question.

7 OK Ok

Almost from the beginning, the president had been interviewing potential new press
secretaries. He appeared to have offered the job to various people, one of whom was
Kimberly Guilfoyle, the Fox News personality and cohost of The Five. Guilfoyle, the
former wife of California Democrat Gavin Newsom, was also reported to be Anthony
Scaramucci’s girlfriend, a rumor he denied. Unbeknownst to the White House,
Scaramucci’s personal life was in dramatic free fall. On July 9, nine months pregnant with
their second child, Scaramucci’s wife filed for divorce.

Guilfoyle, knowing that Spicer was on his way out but having decided not to take his
job—or, according to others in the White House, never having been offered it—suggested
Scaramucci, who set to work convincing Jared and Ivanka that theirs was largely a PR
problem and that they were ill served by the current communications team.

Scaramucci called a reporter he knew to urge that an upcoming story about Kushner’s
Russian contacts be spiked. He followed up by having another mutual contact call the
reporter to say that if the story was spiked it would help the Mooch get into the White
House, whereupon the reporter would have special Mooch access. The Mooch then
assured Jared and Ivanka that he had, in this clever way, killed the story.

Now Scaramucci had their attention. We need some new thinking, the couple thought;
we need somebody who is more on our side. The fact that Scaramucci was from New
York, and Wall Street, and was rich, reassured them that he understood what the deal was.
And that he would understand the stakes and know that an aggressive game needed to be
played.

On the other hand, the couple did not want to be perceived as being heavy-handed. So,
after bitterly accusing Spicer of not defending them adequately, they suddenly backed off
and suggested that they were just looking to add a new voice to the mix. The job of White
House communications director, which had no precise purview, had been vacant since
May, when Mike Dubke, whose presence at the White House had hardly registered,
resigned. Scaramucci could take this job, the couple figured, and in that role he could be
their ally.

“He’s good on television,” Ivanka told Spicer when she explained the rationale for
hiring a former hedge fund manager as White House communications director. “Maybe he

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020090
