A month passed. I felt better. My father told me that it was time to go back to lunch at school, but
with a plan, one centered around the notion of respect. The only way to command it from my tormenters
was to fight back. “But Dad,” I said, “if I hit them, they will crush me.” “They might,” he said, “but you
will have gained some respect, and they may turn their attention to someone else.” It seemed like a
remarkably stupid idea. But my father lived through a war and fought his way to respect among the thugs
in every village school. I decided to give it a go.

I went back to school. Soon thereafter, I found myself standing behind Paxton who displayed
biceps bigger than my head. I figured I had only one shot. I tapped him on the shoulder and swung as
hard as I could, hitting him square in the chest. What aim. What perfection. What wasted energy. With no
more than a flinch, Paxton looked down at me, fury in his face, and grunted “What’s up with you?” With
tears running and lips trembling, I sputtered “I can’t take it anymore. You, Joffe, and James are constantly

lad

hitting me and locking me in the lockers. I can’t take it!” And then, as if his entire brain had been rewired,
serotonin surging to provide self-control, dopamine flowing to shift his sense of reward, the hulk spoke:
“Really? Okay, we’ll stop.” And just like that, Paxton, Joffe and James stopped. No more locker games,
no more bruises. They even saw me as a useful resource, someone who could help them pass some of
their exams. From victim to victory.

I was fortunate. Many are not. Thousands of children throughout the world are persecuted in a
similar way but never fight back or if they do, are crushed for trying. Some are pushed so hard that they
commit suicide, tragedies that increasingly make headline news reports.

The fact that bullies often torment their victims for personal gain, cause great harm, and often
enjoy the experience — as did Lionel James — fits well with a common view of evil. On this view, we
think of someone as evil if they inflict harm on innocent others, knowing that they are violating moral or
legal norms, and relishing the abuse delivered. But what of bullies who, due to immaturity or brain
deficits, simply don’t understand the scope of moral boundaries? What if they impose great harm on their
victims, but don’t enjoy the experience? What if the victims are not entirely innocent, such as those who
double-time as bullies?

We can debate questions like these on philosophical grounds, attempting to refine what, precisely,
counts as an act of evildoing as opposed to some mere moral wrong, like breaking a promise or having an
affair while married. Many have. I don’t believe, however, that this is how we will achieve our deepest
understanding. Instead, I turn to the sciences of human nature, focusing on cases where people directly or
indirectly cause excessive harm to innocent others as the essence of evil. To explain this form of evil, we
must dissect the underlying psychology, the brain circuits that generate this psychology, the genes that
build brains, and the evolutionary history that has sculpted the genetic ensemble that makes us

distinctively human. This is the approach I pursue. If ’m nght about this approach, not only will we gain

Hauser Prologue. Evilution 8

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012754
