Since her firing on January 30, Yates had remained suspiciously quiet. When
journalists approached her, she, or her intermediaries, explained that per her lawyers she
was shut down on all media. The president believed she was merely lying in wait. In
phone calls to friends, he worried about her “plan” and “strategy,” and he continued to
press his after-dinner sources for what they thought she and Ben Rhodes, Trump’s favorite
Obama plotter, had “up their sleeves.”

For each of his enemies—and, actually, for each of his friends—the issue for him came
down, in many ways, to their personal press plan. The media was the battlefield. Trump
assumed everybody wanted his or her fifteen minutes and that everybody had a press
strategy for when they got them. If you couldn’t get press directly for yourself, you
became a leaker. There was no happenstance news, in Trump’s view. All news was
manipulated and designed, planned and planted. All news was to some extent fake—he
understood that very well, because he himself had faked it so many times in his career.
This was why he had so naturally cottoned to the “fake news” label. “ve made stuff up
forever, and they always print it,” he bragged.

The return of Sally Yates, with her appointment before the Senate Judiciary
Committee, marked the beginning, Trump believed, of a sustained and well-organized
media rollout for her. (His press view was confirmed later in May by a lavish,
hagiographic profile of Yates in the New Yorker. “How long do you think she was
planning this?” he asked, rhetorically. “You know she was. It’s her payday.”) “Yates is
only famous because of me,” the president complained bitterly. “Otherwise, who is she?
Nobody.”

In front of Congress that Monday morning, Yates delivered a cinematic performance—
cool, temperate, detailed, selfless—compounding Trump’s fury and agitation.

OOK Ok

On the morning of Tuesday, May 9, with the president still fixated on Comey, and with
Kushner and his daughter behind him, Priebus again moved to delay: “There’s a right way
to do this and a wrong way to do this,” he told the president. “We don’t want him learning
about this on television. I’m going to say this one last time: this is not the right way to do
this. If you want to do this, the right way is to have him in and have a conversation. This is
the decent way and the professional way.” Once more, the president seemed to calm down
and become more focused on the necessary process.

But that was a false flag. In fact, the president, in order to avoid embracing
conventional process—or, for that matter, any real sense of cause and effect—merely
eliminated everybody else from his process. For most of the day, almost no one would
know that he had decided to take matters into his own hands. In presidential annals, the
firing of FBI director James Comey may be the most consequential move ever made by a
modern president acting entirely on his own.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020046
