wee eR He ew Ee Re ee eee eee eee ea ee el

Date: 7/13/06 PALM BEACH POLICE DEPARTMEN

Time: 9:27:55 Incident Report

Case No... . : 1-05-000368 (Continued)

KERR KRKEKKEKRKEERRERRERRERRRRREREE N A R RAT I V E # 27 KREKEREKKREKEKRRKRRRKEKRERRKRRKEK

NA Reported By: KRAUEL, CURTIS D. 12/21/05
Entered By.: ALTOMARO, NICKIE A. 12/21/05

On Thursday, October 20, 2005 at approximately 0936 hours, I assisted
in the execution of a search warrant located at 358 El Brillo Way,
Palm Beach, Florida, residence of Jeffrey Epstein. I was instructed
by Case Agent Det. Joseph Recarey, to secure all computer and media
related material from the residence.

Upon my arrival I was directed by Det. Recarey to a room designated as
the Kitchen Staff Office. I observed a, Silver in color, CPU with the
left side cover removed, exposing the CPU s hardware sitting on floor
next to a glass type desk. The CPU had no discernable identifiers or
features indicating a make or model. This CPU was powered off with
the power cord not plugged in. The keyboard and mouse were atop the
CPU. It should be noted that the CPU was not connected to a monitor,
printer, or other media device. On the back Panel of the CPU, I
observed an A/V card with RCA jacks attached. This type of hardware
would allow audio and video to be downloaded onto the CPU s hard disk.

The ends of the RCA jacks were unattached at the time of the search
and no external camera was located within this room.

The CPU was located on the right side of a desk that held a flat panel
LCD screen. The desk also held another keyboard and mouse, indicative
of a second computer; however, no other computer was found. It
appeared as though a second computer had been recently removed as the
cables ends from the monitor, keyboard and mouse were in the same
area. A further search of the room revealed no media storage devices,
i.e. CDs, Floppy Disks, Zip Disks, etc. This type of media is
commonly stored in an area where computers are placed, yet no media
was found.

After completing a search of this room, I secured the CPU and turned
all items over to the Evidence Custodian for future forensic analysis
via a property receipt.

I was then directed by Det. Recarey to a room designated as the Garden
Room, where I observed a wooden desk facing west. The desk held a
flat screen LCD monitor, keyboard, mouse, media card reader and
printer; however, no CPU was located. All of the cables were removed
from an area where a computer had once been. A search of the desk
area revealed no signs of any media devices.

Det. Recarey directed me to a third location designated as the Cabana
room, which is detached from the residence and located just south of
the pool. In the South East corner of the room, I observed an office
type setting, with an L-shaped desk holding a flat screen LCD monitor,
keyboard, mouse and printer; however, no CPU was located. All of the
cables were removed from an area where a computer had once been. A
search of the desk area revealed no signs of any media devices.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019016

