17

sign of making a decisive break with the past. Nevertheless, the new
leaders are more wary and sensitive to the qualms of the people. The
prosecution of former ministers, officials, and even the former
president and his family symbolizes the junta’s responsiveness to
popular demands. The military’s consistently expressed commitment
to push through with democratic elections and create a conducive
environment for an eventual transition to a civilian democratic
political system indicates that the balance of forces has shifted to the
people — despite the lingering threat of counterrevolution,
mobilization fatigue, and medium-term disenchantment with
democracy. The military occupies a position of prestige and
privilege in the society, and it is in its best interest to create a smooth
transfer of power in succeeding months and years. Perpetuating the
policies of the past regime would anger the population. So it's more
than likely that the new Egyptian leadership will review the tenets of
the former regime’s foreign policy architecture. The Islamists are
already pre-empting their opponents by talking about how they seek
to emulate the Turkish model, where Islam and political moderation
coincide, especially in the realm of foreign affairs. Moreover, the
Muslim Brotherhood has expressed its interest in occupying more
low profile and welfare-oriented executive ministries. So far, the
Islamists have not even vied for the position of presidency, content
with gaining some parliamentary representation and possibly some
influence in the executive branch. The Islamists at this point are
more concerned with gaining domestic political support and avoiding
any backlash from the military, democrats, and foreign powers. Any
Islamist-backed radical departure from the past could justify a
crackdown by the military or compromise the country's economic
well-being and political stability, which could, in turn, erode broader
popular support for their agenda. However, if Israel steps up its
ageressive policies in the region — with the West failing to support

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030172
