Global Utility White Paper CONFIDENTIAL

Disclaimer

This report, which is attached as an exhibit to the Investor Presentation, is presented by Electron Capital Partners
LLC (“Electron”) solely for information purposes to provide recipients with general information regarding Electron’s
current view of the global utility sector. This report is a summary and does not purport to be complete.

This report does not constitute an offer to sell, or a solicitation of any offer to buy or sell, any securities or to
provide any investment advisory services. Any such offer will be made solely to qualified investors by means of a
final offering document and related subscription materials, which will contain material information not contained
herein and to which the prospective investors are directed. This report is not intended to supplement, modify or
replace such documents, which should be carefully read prior to investing.

An investment in any security involves a high degree of risk. No assurance can be given that Electron’ investment
objectives will be achieved and investment results may vary substantially on a quarterly, annual and/or other
periodic basis. Past performance is not necessarily indicative of future results. The nature of, and risks associated
with, the investments to be made by Electron may differ substantially from the nature of, and risks associated
with, investments undertaken historically by the principals of Electron.

Recipients should not construe this report or any other communication received in connection with Electron or any
fund as legal, accounting, tax, investment or other advice, and each recipient should consult with its own counsel
and advisors as to all legal, tax, regulatory, financial and related matters. Recipients should not rely on this report
in making any investment decisions.

This report is confidential and proprietary and the recipient agrees not to disclose, directly or indirectly, to any
party other than the recipient and the recipient’s professional advisors. Any distribution of this report, in whole or
in part, or the divulgence of any of its contents, is unauthorized.

Any projections, forecasts, opinions and estimates contained in this report are necessarily speculative in nature
and are based upon certain assumptions. It can be expected that some or all of such assumptions will not
materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, actual results will differ and may vary
substantially from the results shown.

Electron has prepared this report, in part, on the basis of information and data filed by issuers with various
government regulators or made directly available to Electron by the issuers or through sources other than the
issuers. Although Electron evaluates all such information and data and may seek independent corroboration when
Electron considers it appropriate and reasonably available, Electron is not in a position to confirm the
completeness, genuineness or accuracy of such information and data and, in some cases, complete and accurate
information is not available.

27 Electron Capital Partners, LLC

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024228
