Case 1:17-cv-03956-PGG Document1-1 Filed 05/25/17 Page 4of5

Mr. Epstein. Instead, she said, they were told that Mr. Krischer would convene a
grand jury to examine the evidence and decide what charges, if any, to bring.

Around that time, the police report said, Mr. Dershowitz met with prosecutors
to share information about the accusers, including statements they had posted on
MySpace.com, the social networking site, concerning use of drugs and alcohol.
According to the report, Mr. Krischer’s office then decided to delay the grand jury

session for several months.

The Palm Beach police grew frustrated, the report said, and on May 1 the
department asked prosecutors to approve warrants to arrest Mr. Epstein.

Chief Reiter also wrote Mr. Krischer questioning “the unusual course that your
office’s handling of this matter has taken” and suggesting that Mr. Krischer
disqualify himself. Chief Reiter refused several requests to be interviewed, and his
spokeswoman would not say explicitly why he had urged the prosecutor to step
aside.

Mike Edmondson, a spokesman for Mr. Krischer, said the state attorney’s office
sometimes sent noncapital cases to grand juries when there were questions about
witness credibility. Mr. Krischer does not recommend a particular charge in such
cases, Mr. Edmondson said, but gives the grand jury a list of possible charges.

Bruce J. Winick, a law professor at the University of Miami, said that while
prosecutors in Florida rarely referred noncapital cases to grand juries, they

sometimes did so with sensitive cases to be extra-cautious.

Mr. Lefcourt said the police were wrong to have released the report so soon,
especially without correcting information that later proved wrong. He cited his
assertion that one accuser had lied about her age, adding that she had also been
arrested on drug charges and had been fired by her employer for stealing.

“What I’m trying to focus on,” Mr. Lefcourt said, “is, What’s motivating the
selective and misleading release of information to the public?”

A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A19 of the New York edition with the headline:
Questions of Preferential Treatment Are Raised in Florida Sex Case

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029422
