Options Risk Statement

Potential Risk at Expiry & Options Limited Duration Risk

Unlike owning or shorting a stock, employing any listed options strategy is by
definition governed by a finite duration. The most severe risks associated with
general options trading are total loss of capital invested and delivery/assignment
risk... all of which can occur in a short period.

Investor suitability

The use of standardized options and other related derivatives instruments are
considered unsuitable for many investors. Investors considering such strategies are
encouraged to become familiar with the Characteristics and Risks of Standardized
Options (an OCC authored white paper on options risks). U.S. investors should consult
with a FINRA Registered Options Principal.

For detailed information regarding the risks involved with investing in listed options:
http://Awww.theocc.com/about/publications/character-risks.jsp

Analyst Certification

We, James Barty, Abhinandan Deb, Barnaby Martin, Benjamin Bowler, Claudio Piron,
David Hauner, CFA, Hans Mikkelsen, lan Gordon, loannis Angelakis, Kamal Sharma, Mark
Capleton, Ritesh Samadhiya, CFA, Shusuke Yamada, CFA and Shyam S.Rajan, hereby
certify that the views each of us has expressed in this research report accurately reflect
each of our respective personal views about the subject securities and issuers. We also
certify that no part of our respective compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to the specific recommendations or view expressed in this research
report.

Special Disclosures

BofA Merrill Lynch is currently acting as Financial Adviser to Anima Holding SpA in
connection with its proposed bid, as part of a consortium including Poste Italiane SpA
and Cassa Depositi e Prestiti SpA, for the acquisition of the asset management
business, Pioneer Global Asset Management SpA, currently owned by Unicredt SpA,
which was announced on 10 November 2016.

BofA Merrill Lynch is currently acting as Financial Advisor to Mediobanca SPA in
connection with its proposed acquisition of 50% of Banca Esperia from Mediolanum
Group, which was announced on 17 November 2016.

Bankof America

Merrill Lynch Global Cross Asset Strategy - Year Ahead | 30 November 2016 25

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014456
