rationalized, not only having brad step in to children investments . gift taxes, trust , loans, notes. payables.
expenses allocations .. , insurance.( life , art, split dollar), cashflows, operating biz, , investments, contingent
liabilitiites.( funds , miami ) , commitments funds and charities , dividend treatment -important review of
transcations relating to BRH (amendments) TRA sale ( nuanced ) , shareholder agreements, bank loan
agreements new bank relationships. . wills, construction accounting and oversite , contracts planning
permits etc..employee rules, regs, .. checking account reconciliations, crediti cards. jewelry , cost basis ,( art
stock etc.) foundations regs , brokerage accts,. stock options,( ie environmental solutions still not done !).
estate tax calcualtion firedrill, ( note ,basis etc ) review of boat expenses plane expenses, depreciation issues
refunds etc. . rationalize all outside counsels and accounting firms

Paul Weisss , Mcdermit Will, Macfarlanes. Price Waterhouse , Reich, withers bergman, Empire, , akin gump,
bbd seidman, , Apollo in house counsel.

set up and oversee brokerage accounts at JPM DBGS and thoughfullly trade

.new IT system from top to bottom full time IT person

new accounting system - on- line banking cooridnated with reports . fire drills as per caruci ( he sounds good
and. audit system,s . review of john murphy? joslin? dag? eva? .

in house, review household ( 12million ) review, filings- partnerhip accounting,- familitarity with grats, trusts
etc . audit system put in place. that should be the easy part. then strategy re:

As new facts on the ground develop , phaidon debra, children meeetings, involvment ,

trustees adjusted, stock sale sale of art, , apt( large gain ), 1031 trade in , plane depreciation, boat sale.
construction , brad will oversee brokerage and investment, ?? pe?. real estate?, . publishing, grats, tra, brh (
death). foundation , museum, tax proejctions cash flow projections, cooridnation with tax from apollo. etc
you are sitting on over 100 m of cash???!!

Subject: Re: we're calling the sales tax guy at 6:30 pm - I'll come to your office
To: Richard Joslin Brad Wechsler i Heather Gray

sorry but this is emblematic of the silliness that appears to continue. ..... 1. How can we ask for a legal opinion
when it is crystal clear that we don't yet have accurate facts or numbers ,f. 2 Invoices have not been
reviewed! corporate structure is convoluted and unexplored in detail. ( was the boat captain on the

call?) 3 Paul weiss is the attny , and should be charged with getting us info. . 4. Bringing in yet another
outside lawyer without full vetting and consideration, a waste of time energy and money. . 5. ex. what is the
location of charters shown on the invoice? do you know. .? if th invoices are incorrect, does that give us
any comfort in trying to defend an audit.. I saw three invoices only, and each had a different owner or
address ..

Date: Mon, May 18, 2015 at 8:17 AM
Subject: agenda for tomorrrow
To: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com>, Melanie Spinella

as areflection on your voiced spirited concerns inthe what have you done for me lately category ?
)): . inthe beginning . there was eileen and tom. ( eve and adam,-- however it appears, she declined to
eat the apple from the knowledge tree)

that was it. ada was at the bank but reviewing docs. carlyn was in the kitchen making mush ( abel and cain)

books as they were mystersiously called was being kept soley by eileen, with little or no input ,correction or
advice from tom. herarely if ever asked questions. expenses ie airplane was done in house apollo. (1031
exchange blown etc) at this time
as I recall you got quite annoyed, and agressive and initiated the talking out of the both sides of your mouth 
tiddy, when 1 suggested that the level of their competence left much to be desired. ( ralph lerner's came later
) .response - eileen ran the desk, tom is a partner, ralph wrote the book etc

re tax there was almost no oversight of income, estate, gift ,sales and use, transfer excise etc . IRS SEC
GAMING NYS. real estate, valuations ( many )tax filings- disclosures, etc. re grats trusts defect trusts, Ilcs
corps , trustees , partnerships. foreign corps. 100 bank accounts. gift taxes, , loans, notes. payables. expenses.
., Insurance.( life, art, split dollar), cashflows, operating biz, , investments, contingent liabilitiites.( funds ,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023354
