2. Three Minutes: Begin each line focusing on the third word in from the first word, and end
each line focusing on the third word in from the last word. This makes use of peripheral vision
that is otherwise wasted on margins. For example, even when the highlighted words in the next
line are your beginning and ending focal points, the entire sentence is “read,” just with less eye
movement:

“Once upon a time, an information addict decided to detox.”

Move in from both sides further and further as it gets easier.

3. Two Minutes: Once comfortable indenting three or four words from both sides, attempt to
take only two snapshots—also known as fixations—per line on the first and last indented
words.

4. Three Minutes: Practice reading too fast for comprehension but with good technique (the
above three techniques) for five pages prior to reading at a comfortable speed. This will
heighten perception and reset your speed limit, much like how 50 mph normally feels fast but
seems like slow motion if you drop down from 70 mph on the freeway.

To calculate reading speed in words per minute (wpm)—and thus progress—in a given book, add up
the number of words in ten lines and divide by ten to get the average words per line. Multiply this by the
number of lines per page and you have the average words per page. Now it’s simple. If you initially read
1.25 pages in one minute at 330 average words per page, that’s 412.5 words per minute. If you then read
3.5 pages after training, it’s 1,155 words per minute and you’re in the top 1% of the world’s fastest
readers.

=» Q&A: QUESTIONS AND ACTIONS

Learning to ignore things is one of the great paths to inner peace.
— ROBERT J. SAWYER, Calculating God

1. Go on an immediate one-week media fast.

The world doesn’t even hiccup, much less end, when you cut the information umbilical cord. To realize
this, it’s best to use the Band-Aid approach and do it quickly: a one-week media fast. Information is too
much like ice cream to do otherwise. “Oh, [ll just have a half a spoonful” is about as realistic as “I just
want to jump online for a minute.” Go cold turkey.

If you want to go back to the 15,000-calorie potato chip information diet afterward, fine, but beginning
tomorrow and for at least five full days, here are the rules:

No newspapers, magazines, audiobooks, or nonmusic radio. Music is permitted at all times.

No news websites whatsoever (cnn.com, drudgereport.com, msn.com 10 etc.).

No television at all, except for one hour of pleasure viewing each evening.

No reading books, except for this book and one hour of fiction! pleasure reading prior to bed.

No web surfing at the desk unless it is necessary to complete a work task for that day. Necessary means
necessary, not nice to have.

Unnecessary reading is public enemy number one during this one-week fast.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013852
