and Roger Schank, and Joseph Traub, head of the National Supercomputer Consortium.

In 1981 with Heinz’s help, I had founded “The Reality Club” (the precursor to the
non-profit Edge.org), whose initial interdisciplinary meetings took place in the Board
Room at the NYAS. Heinz was working on his book, Dreams of Reason: The Rise of the
Science of Complexity, which he considered to be a research agenda for science in the
1990's.

Through the Reality Club meetings, I got to know two young researchers who
were about to play key roles in revolutionizing computer science. At MIT in the late
seventies, Danny Hillis developed the algorithms that made possible the massively
parallel computer. In 1983, his company, Thinking Machines, built the world's fastest
supercomputer by utilizing parallel architecture. His connection machine, closely
reflected the workings of the human mind. Seth Lloyd at Rockefeller University was
undertaking seminal work in the fields of quantum computation and quantum
communications, including proposing the first technologically feasible design for a
quantum computer.

And the Japanese? Their foray into artificial intelligence failed, and was followed
by twenty years of anemic economic growth. But, the leading US scientists took this
program very seriously. And Feigenbaum, who was the cutting-edge computer scientist
of the day, teamed up with McCorduck to write a book on these developments. Zhe Fifth
Generation: Artificial Intelligence and Japan's Computer Challenge to the World was
published in 1983. We had a code name for the project: “It’s coming, it’s coming!” But it
didn’t come; it went.

From that point on ’ve worked with researchers in nearly every variety of AI and
complexity, including Rodney Brooks, Hans Moravec, John Archibald Wheeler, Benoit
Mandelbrot, John Henry Holland, Danny Hillis, Freeman Dyson, Chris Langton, Doyne
Farmer, Geoffrey West, Stuart Russell, and Judea Pearl.

An Ongoing Dynamical Emergent System

From the initial meeting in Washington, CT to the present, I arranged a number of
dinners and discussions in London and Cambridge, Massachusetts, as well as a public
event at London’s City Hall. Among the attendees were distinguished scientists, science
historians, and communications theorists, all of whom have been thinking seriously about
AI issues for their entire careers.

I commissioned essays from a wide range of contributors, with or without
references to Wiener (leaving it up to each participant). In the end, 25 people wrote
essays, all individuals concerned about what is happening today in the age of AI. Deep
Thinking in not my book, rather it is our book: Seth Lloyd, Judea Pearl, Stuart Russell,
George Dyson, Daniel C. Dennett, Rodney Brooks, Frank Wilczek, Max Tegmark, Jaan
Tallinn, Steven Pinker, David Deutsch, Tom Griffiths, Anca Dragan, Chris Anderson,
David Kaiser, Neil Gershenfeld, W. Daniel Hillis, Venki Ramakrishnan, Alex “Sandy”
Pentland, Hans Ulrich Obrist, Alison Gopnik, Peter Galison, George M. Church, Caroline
A. Jones, Stephen Wolfram.

I see The Deep Thinking Project as an ongoing dynamical emergent system, a
presentation of the ideas of a community of sophisticated thinkers who are bringing their
experience and erudition to bear in challenging the prevailing digital AI narrative as they

14

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016817
