pay a bill) eva goes. outsource as much as possible... bookkeeping systems built from scratch,
airplane restructure, boat . same, new grats. phaidon sale , decide on artspace survivability, regan, . do
the kids really want these? , children accounting ie bens house.etc. re do estate for new facts. redo
loans, trading accounts activity, . gaming -foreign- disclosures. . BRH TRA re thinks . household and
construction architects. . redone. art partnership , choice of paintings. . re do structure of consultants.
tax re family office. . decide if investments are a realistic option in the next three years.. insurance.
operations. airplane , etc. . art foundation , private. max charity contributions. financial reports. still
waiting. ? on line banking, . tax planning, family office deductions ( profit center ) . airplane certificate,
redone jetaviationredo. . paper gigi ( E )trust to avoid gift tax. .

Date: Thu, Mar 3, 2016 at 3:31 AM

Subject: ask alan why he hasnt explained this to you since novmebr

To: Melanie Spinella

Tenancy in common is a type of shared ownership of property, where each owner owns a share of the
property. Unlike in a joint tenancy, these shares can be of unequal size, and can be freely transfered to
other owners both during life and via a will. Even if owners own unequal shares, however, all owners have
the right to occupy and use all of the property.

Date: Sun, Mar 13, 2016 at 12:55 PM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella Po

The fire drill documents received should be the final nail in the coffin of Alan and Ada, ._ It is
inexcusable, , ludricrous and in brads words insane or yours,  unexplainable that the two people that
you refer to as your estate attnys , NEVER EVER took the time to actually read the documents that have
the biggest efffect on your family and estate upon death or disablity, its impossible.!!! IMPOSSIBLE .
after telling me that they were confident that everything had been read , and after years , of you telling me
that Im not an attorney, it is clear that my telling you that you have c quality people was over generous, ,
I received a first draft of the summary of documents. you should read them for yourself. . executive
committee issues. , unclear tax. contradictory provisions,your reps having to rely possibly on a fall back
to delaware law to protect your interests, even suggesting that even if they would like to fall back , in
some instances - no case law. other crazy- provisions that are personal to you , instead of you and your
successor ? two pages of open to interpretation .or aha , maybe something is wrong! asie, your
rep, after death has no right for information on BRH? ! if you and another founder are dead , the exec
commitee has no decision authority, if josh and mark want to fuck your heirs, its easy, black family
partner docs dont deal with succession! YOU deserve better. _ fyi, after a month of brad ada and alan
,on the project, still not willing to share with me a final, they are all embarassed. and full of excuses .

It will take wendy and a new team 6 to 9 months to put your house in order. , new cash flows. new
accounting system, airplane rethought, , you new hires can find deals , they can familiarize themselves
with your current investments , but should not be doing the accounting for them, .

your will is still not amended, ?! the tenants in common not even explained to you. if something happens
to you and debra, no real direction for the foundation. . etc

Date: Mon, Mar 21, 2016 at 4:17 AM
Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella {>

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023234
