For C.S. Lewis, religious faith came from intellectual hard work. He was put
off by spirituality that arrived by thoughtless fiat. He rejected the idea of living in
simple and loving direct conversation with the God within, as described by Brother
Lawrence. Lawrence was described as the simple “great awkward fellow who broke
everything.” Lewis had little faith in what he perceived as the mindless spiritual
methodology of this selfless, silent, hard working Parisian monastery cook for a
hundred fellow monks who was also their dedicated smelly sandal repairer. Perhaps
reflecting his place in the British intellectual class system, Lewis wrote that
Lawrence’s conversations and letters in the brief pamphlet, Practice of the
Presence of God, “...full of truth... but unctuous and repulsive.” At the same time,
Lewis spoke of his own experiential evidence for God in Surprised by Joy in which
he admits, “| am an empirical theist. | have arrived at God by induction.” It is likely
that Brother Lawrence did not know and did not need to know the difference
between an inductive and deductive argument.

For most of my years, | have been a subject of Jamesian transcendent
experience, LSD expansive visions, Sufi moving meditation, long distance running,
Black Baptist shouting, Tantric orgasmic withholding, Yiddish Labovicher dancing,
Charismatic Christian Church rock and rolling, Hindi meditative rising Kundalini,
almost any ecstatic crisis inducing, God type. Recall that | am from a generation
that a Donovan song inspired to smoke bananas. | did not personally access
Brother Lawrence’s calm, work-a-day, devotional, quietly persistent, perspective
yielding, inner conversations with God until my sixth decade. The opportunity came
from my growingly severe, unfixably chronic, pain. The counter-intuitive insight and
helpful identification was gained from reading about Joseph de Beaufort’s
conversations with Brother Lawrence. Beaufort said Lawrence was born with the
name Nicholas Herman in 1611 and renamed Lawrence in honor of his parish
priest. As young soldier in the Thirty Years War of the 17 Century, he was severely
injured. He was left with both sciatic nerves trapped between bone spurs and tissue
scarring from his early twenties. These injuries, involving the two biggest pain-
conducting nerves in the body, left him crippled in gait and in chronically severe

lower back and leg pain from which he would never be free. It was after this time

174

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013674
