204 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

Every correctly formed theorem number has another number,
which demonstrates the proof of that number.

If this is universally true there should be no contradiction.
Unfortunately if you apply the theorem to itself you get something
similar to the liar’s paradox.

“This proof number is not a proof of the truth of this theorem
number.”

The proof number proves the theorem number is true, but the truth
of the statement is that it can’t be a proof of the statement... Paradox.

The only way to resolve the paradox is to go back one step and
realize that not every correctly formed theorem number has a proof
number using only the rules of that system.

Concisely, Godel’s theorem says, “Within any formal system of
mathematics there can be statements that are true but are not provable
using only the rules of that system”

When Hilbert heard of Gédel’s proof, his first reaction was anger.
After all, he had spent 30 years of his life trying to prove mathematics was
tidy and complete. Gédel had just shown it was not. Hilbert never worked
on formalism again, but the rest of the mathematical establishment
largely ignored the result. Godel’s proof did not stop mathematicians
proving new theorems nor doing useful mathematics. They went on
much as before, using a mixture of intuition and analysis. The only
difference was someone had told them analysis alone would not succeed.
The repercussions of Gédel’s theory have more to do with understanding
our place in the Universe and the nature of knowledge discovery. These
are ‘big’ philosophical questions, which don’t greatly affect the day-to-
day ability of a mathematician to do their job. However, it is important
to understand that knowledge discovery is not simply analysis. Knowing
this helps us understand human creativity.

Inconsistency

In the proof above, I said the only way to resolve the paradox is by saying
there cannot be a proof number for every mathematical statement and
therefore mathematics is incomplete. There is one other way to solve the
paradox, and that is by allowing inconsistency into the system. Gédel’s
proof assumes you can prove something true or false, but what if you
could prove it true and false? In this case, the system is complete but you
can prove truths and untruths within it! This may seem an acceptable
solution, but inconsistency in a mathematical model is a cancer that will

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015894
