enables us to distinguish between adaptive and non-adaptive explanations? To answer this question, let us
look at two illustrative examples that are more challenging than leafy coverage in insects: the evolution of
tameness and religion.

Sheep, goats, cows, cats, and dogs are all domesticated animals, created by the forces of artificial
selection. All have been transformed from a wild type to an animal that not only lives with us, but
sometimes lives for us as food. All are more relaxed, less fearful, and less stressed in the presence of
humans than their wild ancestors. Many of these animals seek human companionship. These are the
trademark features of tameness. They are also consistently associated with other features that never
entered into the breeder’s calculations: floppier ears, curlier tails, more mottled fur, greater sensitivity to
human communication, reduced response to predators, earlier sexual maturation, smaller brains, and
higher levels of serotonin — a chemical messenger of the brain that regulates self-control. Some of these
features appear directly relevant to tameness, whereas others appear entirely irrelevant. For example,
serotonin is critically linked to self-control which is critically linked to an animal’s ability to suppress
aggression when threatened, which is critically linked to building a life with humans. Mottled fur is not
critically linked to any of these benefits.

Domestication leads to a pastiche of characteristics, some indicative of the domesticator’s goals
and others orthogonal to it. How does the process of domestication, and artificial selection in particular,
generate both desired and unanticipated traits?

In most cases of animal domestication, we know little about how the wild type changed because
the only available information is either anecdotal or based on loose archaeological reconstructions.
Consider the domestication of dogs from wolves, and especially the variability among dog breeds.
Though it is clear that humans throughout history have bred dogs to serve particular functions, including
herding, aggressive defense, and companionship, each of these personality styles is linked to other
behavioral and physiological traits. For example, breeds with high activity levels are smaller than breeds
with low activity levels, aggressive breeds have higher metabolic rates than docile breeds, and obedient
breeds live longer than disobedient breeds. Does selection for aggressiveness cause an increase in
metabolic rate or does selection for higher metabolic rate allow for heightened aggressiveness. Because
these are all correlations, we don’t know which trait pushed the other to change or whether both traits
were favored at the same time.

There are two situations that provide a more clear-cut understanding of which feature was favored
by selection and which emerged as an incidental byproduct: controlled experiments and domestication
efforts that resulted in unambiguously undesirable traits. In the 1950s, the Russian biologist Dmitry
Belyaev set out to domesticate the wild silver fox. Over several generations, he selectively bred those

individuals who were most likely to allow a human experimenter to approach and hand them food. After

Hauser Chapter 1. Nature’s secrets 23

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012769
