246 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

Both analyses lead to a paradox! There is only one way out. There
can be no halting procedure. I’m sorry if this is quite convoluted.

Philosophical Proof

If you find these technical proofs difficult to follow, it may be easier to
examine the problem philosophically. Consider the consequence of
the existence of a Halting procedure. A Universal Turing Machine is a
relatively small program. Roger Penrose gives a three-page example in
The Emperors New Mind, and Stephen Wolfram has implemented one
using a cellular automaton with as few as five component parts.

A Halting Program running on such a machine should be able
to compute all the knowledge in the Universe. Every structure, every
work of literature, every galaxy could be the output of this single, simple
program. My pocket calculator could, theoretically, paint like Picasso
and compose like Mozart. All art, knowledge and science would be
entirely determined in our Universe and we would have no free will. If
you philosophically rebel against this then the Halting Problem must
have no solution.

Gédel’s Insight

Another way to understand this conundrum is through the earlier work
of Gédel. Solutions to mathematical puzzles are neat, orderly sequences
of statements where the problem is solved step by step. Computers are
good at step by step processes. Surely a computer could simply proceed
in a painstaking fashion to check all the possible combinations of words
and symbols to discover a proof.

An analogy might be trying to find your hotel room if you have
forgotten the number. You could simply find it by trying every room.
As you progressed through each floor, you would try every corridor
and retrace your steps to the main hallway before attempting the next.
Eventually you would succeed.

Finding proofs of theorems is often understood to be the same sort
of task: search systematically through all the numbers and you will find
the solution. But this is not so: There is a hidden problem.

Although it is true to say problems and proofs can be described by
numbers, they are not simply related like a lock and key. We need the
first number to translate into a set of symbols meaning something about
mathematics: for example, that x squared plus y squared equals z squared
but for higher powers there is no equality, and the second number to

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015936
