retrospect, it seems surreal that I reacted so badly to my BDSM orientation.

I remember that I felt vaguely electrified at what I was saying, a little scared... but also
comforted. At the time, I hadn't had much contact with other sex theorists, and I thought I
was saying something radical. I was scared that my words might appear too radical to be
taken seriously. Also, since our culture mostly discusses the idea of orientation in
regards to gay/ lesbian /bi /transgender /queer, it seemed to me that -- if I dared refer to it
as my BDSM orientation” -- then a comparison with LGBTQ was implied in my
statement.

Would the world believe that my BDSM desires could be as real, as deep-rooted, as
unavoidable as the sexual orientation of a gay/lesbian/bi/transgender/queer person?
Would I offend GLBTQ people by implying that my sexual needs are as real, deep-
rooted and unavoidable as theirs?

I later found out that some LGBTQ people do get offended by it, and others don't.
Sometime you end up with ridiculous arguments like this one from a comments thread on
an incredibly BDSM-phobic blog: one person says, As a lesbian, I would like to say a
sincere fuck you to people comparing BDSM to homosexuality,” to which another person
replies, As a queer person myself, I would like to say a sincere fuck you to people who
claim that I ought to see my BDSM and my queerness differently. As for me, Clarisse,
I'll be frank with you -- I've come to the conclusion that I don't have a dog in that fight,
and I'm staying out of it. I'm straight as the day is long, but I've also been invited to speak
about BDSM at queer conventions and to write about BDSM on queer blogs. So I'll hang
out with the people who are cool with me, and everyone else can kick me out of their
LGBTQ circles as much as they want.

But I used to feel a lot more worried about how I'd be perceived for talking about BDSM
as an orientation. Still, as weird as the concept of BDSM as an orientation” felt when I
first thought of it, it also felt right. When I looked back at my memories and previous
actions, it was quite obvious that I have always had these needs, desires and fantasies.
Acknowledging this, and applying the word orientation to BDSM, helped me come to
terms with my BDSM identity.

The BDSM orientation idea cleared a mental path for me to think of BDSM as a inbuilt
part of myself, like my bone structure or eye color. BDSM became something that it was
desirable to accept, come to terms with... even embrace. It was a hugely liberating way
of thinking about it: if I thought of BDSM as an orientation, that meant I didn't have
to worry about or fight it anymore.

Since then, I've been so buried in sexuality theory and I've talked to so many BDSM
people that -- well, now the idea of a BDSM orientation seems kinda boring. I am
reminded that it's a radical concept only when I talk to people who don't think about these
things all the time. I think that the idea of BDSM as an orientation occurs naturally to
people who think a lot about BDSM sexuality, because so many kinksters either know
we're BDSM people all along, or instantly recognize BDSM once we find it. Here's a
quotation from an article about a BDSM-related legal case that quotes sexologist Charles
Moser at the end, as he very eloquently describes how BDSM can be considered a sexual
orientation:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018532
