FCPA Unit Chief
Division of Enforcement
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, N.E.
Washington, DC 20549

Online: Tips, Complaints, and
Referrals website

http://www.sec.gov/complaint/tipscomplaint.shtml

Office of Investor Education and Advocacy:
(800) SEC-0330

or stockholders acting on the issuer’s behalf. SEC’s Division
of Enforcement has responsibility for investigating and
prosecuting FCPA violations. In 2010, SEC’s Enforcement
Division created a specialized FCPA Unit, with attorneys
in Washington, D.C. and in regional offices around the
country, to focus specifically on FCPA enforcement. The
Unit investigates potential FCPA violations; facilitates
coordination with DOJ’s FCPA program and with other
federal and international law enforcement partners; uses its
expert knowledge of the law to promote consistent enforce-
ment of the FCPA; analyzes tips, complaints, and referrals
regarding allegations of foreign bribery; and conducts pub-
lic outreach to raise awareness of anti-corruption efforts
and good corporate governance programs.

The FCPA Unit maintains a “Spotlight on FCPA”
section on SEC’s website at hetp://www.sec.gov/spotlight/
fcpa.shtml. The website, which is updated regularly, pro-
vides general information about the Act, links to all SEC
enforcement actions involving the FCPA, including both
federal court actions and administrative proceedings, and

contains other useful information.

Individuals and companies with information about
possible FCPA violations by issuers may report them to the
Enforcement Division via SEC’s online Tips, Complaints
and Referral system, http://www.sec.gov/complaint/tip-
scomplaint.shtml. They may also submit information to
SEC’s Office of the Whistleblower through the same online
system or by contacting the Office of the Whistleblower
at (202) 551-4790. Additionally, investors with questions
about the FCPA can call the Office of Investor Education
and Advocacy at (800) SEC-0330.

For more information about SEC’s Whistleblower
Program, under which certain eligible whistleblowers may
be entitled to a monetary award if their information leads to

certain SEC actions, see Chapter 8.

Law Enforcement Partners

DOJ’s FCPA Unit regularly works with the Federal
Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to investigate potential FCPA
violations. The FBI’s International Corruption Unit has pri-
mary responsibility for international corruption and fraud
investigations and coordinates the FBI’s national FCPA
enforcement program. The FBI also has a dedicated FCPA
squad of FBI special agents (located in the Washington
Field Office) that is responsible for investigating many, and
providing support for all, of the FBI’s FCPA investigations.
In addition, the Department of Homeland Security and the
Internal Revenue Service-Criminal Investigation regularly
investigate potential FCPA violations. A number of other
agencies are also involved in the fight against international
corruption, including the Department of Treasury's Office
of Foreign Assets Control, which has helped lead a number
of FCPA investigations.

Departments of Commerce and State

Besides enforcement efforts by DOJ and SEC,
the U.S. government is also working to address corrup-
tion abroad and level the playing field for U.S. businesses
through the efforts of the Departments of Commerce and
State. Both Commerce and State advance anti-corruption
and good governance initiatives globally and regularly

assist U.S. companies doing business overseas in several

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022507

