70 Teaching Minds

types of cases there are. Is it hard to gather evidence properly? Prob-
ably. It usually is. Is it hard to know all the possible results? It might
not be. It might be hard to decide on a result, however, since the result
is usually to pay some amount of money, so how much money would
be the key question. All this takes practice, so what we really need to
know is where the main areas of practice should be.

So now we have a real question to ask:

Q1: How can we practice gathering evidence, learning about
prototypical cases, and knowing how to determine the correct
final result in insurance adjusting?

Notice that this is a very different question from asking what an
insurance adjuster knows and then asking how to tell students what
they should know.

Making the transformation from the list of knowledge given above
by the online course offerers into Q]1 is the real issue in transforming
subject-based education into cognitive process- based education.

Let’s discuss a different type of example. My company was invited
into a technical college in Peru to discuss how to teach accounting.
Why would you want to teach accounting? I asked. Because the students
need to know it, I was told. Why? I said. Because they need it in their
work. So I changed the subject. I asked, What work do most people do
when they graduate from your school?

It turns out most of their graduates ran fast-food restaurants. Then
why do they need to learn accounting? They need it in order to run a res-
taurant. Iam sure there is some accounting done as part of running a
restaurant, but surely not every part of accounting is needed. And, I
asked, Do you actually teach how to run a restaurant?

Of course they didn’t. Why not? Because accounting is an aca-
demic subject and managing fast-food employees and ordering meat
are not. They hire an accounting professor and he knows accounting
and knows nothing about running a restaurant. Even a practical tech-
nical school gets caught up in subject-based education in part because
it hires graduates from that system who know only what they them-
selves were taught.

What are the cognitive processes involved in running a fast-food
restaurant? Let’s see which are relevant.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023816
