In re: TERRORIST ATTACKS ON SEPTEMBER 11, 2001., 2012 WL 257568 (2012)

and other financiers associated with the Golden Chain enabled bin Laden and Al Qaeda to replace lost financial assets and
establish a base in Afghanistan following their abrupt departure from Sudan in 1996

The Golden Chain thus provides a list of the most significant donors to al-Qaeda. These donors, moreover, did not give
money to al-Qaeda unwittingly, through an al Qaeda front masquerading as a legitimate charity; they were, rather, bin
Ladin’s original list of financial backers for his al-Qaeda enterprise. The appearance on this list of Khalid bin Mahfouz and
Sulaiman al Rayhi is strong evidence of their knowing and active financial support of al-Qaeda.

In addition to the positions within their respective financial institutions, Khalid bin Mahfouz, Suleiman al Rajhi, and
Abdullah al Rajhi also played significant roles in al-Qaeda charity fronts. As mentioned above, bin Mahfouz founded
Muwafaq Foundation along with Defendant al Kadi, with the intent that it would serve as a front for al-Qaeda *55
operations.” Al Rajhi served as a Board Member of the RO, and also founded the SAAR Foundation, a U.S. based charity
established by al Rajhi to support Islamic extremists.” These allegations and facts concerning their longstanding ties to bin
Laden, and positions within financial institutions and charities with documented links to al-Qaeda, place bin Mahfouz and al
Rayhi at the center of the al-Qaeda financial and logistic network.

Al-Qaeda’s Additional Wealthy Financiers

A number of other wealthy financiers and sponsors played critical roles in the advancement of the al-Qaeda enterprise, by
providing much of the funding al-Qaeda needed to sustain its global operations, estimated by the U.S. government at more
than $30 million per year in the period immediately preceding the September 11th Attacks. These wealthy individual
sponsors included defendants Bakr bin Laden, Tariq bin Laden, Yeslam bin Laden, Omar bin Laden, Abdullah bin Laden
(collectively the “Bin Laden Brothers”), Yousef Jameel, and Saleh Kamel--Bakr bin Laden, *56 Jameel, and Kamel, along
with Khalid bin Mahfouiz and Suleiman al Rajhi, are identified as primary al-Qaeda financiers in the Golden Chain.”

Bakr, Tariq, Omar, and Yeslam bin Laden are Osama’s half-brothers. Bakr, Tariq, and Omar are alleged to have used their
positions within the Saudi Binladin Group, the bin Laden family construction empire, to channel support to their sibling
Osama after he formed al-Qaeda and made clear his intent to conduct jihad against the United States.™ Consistent with those
allegations, the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks’ Staff Monograph on terrorist financing confirms that Osama bin
Laden continued to receive disbursements from SBG following the establishment of al-Qaeda in 1988 through 1993 or 1994,
to a tune of approximately $1 million per year, until the Saudi government allegedly “forced the Bin Ladin family to find a
buyer for Usama’s share of the family company.” Bin Laden used those funds to provide economic support to the National
Islamic Front regime, a central component of the bargain under which the *57 NIF provided safehaven, training camps and
other support for al-Qaeda.” In addition, Bakr is a member of the Golden Chain, and a primary contributor to al-Qaeda front
charity TRO.”

Abdullah bin Laden sponsored al-Qaeda through his roles in establishing two US branches of al-Qaeda front charities, Taibah
International and WAMY USA, both of which have extensive ties to al-Qaeda. Yeslam bin Laden supported al-Qaeda
through the management of Swiss bank accounts for Osama’s benefit.”

Defendants Kamel and Jameel also are members of the Golden Chain.'” Both are alleged to have longstanding ties to
al-Qaeda, and to have supported al-Qaeda through a variety of channels.'' Jameel’s sponsorship of al-Qaeda flowed largely
through purported charities, known to Jameel to be al-Qaeda fronts.'” Kamel also contributed generously to al-Qaeda through

its known charity fronts, and also *58 supported al-Qaeda through various businesses and financial institutions under his
control, including Defendant-Appellee Dalian al Baraka.’

*59 Summary of Argument
The district court concluded that plaintiffs had failed to state a claim against certain defendants under the Anti-Terrorism Act

WESTLAW

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023383
