270 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

deemed others too sensitive for journalists. So I wanted to find out
from Kucherena which documents Snowden had taken to Russia. I
went about it in a roundabout way. When Shevardnadze asked him
about the secret material Snowden might reveal in Russia, Kucher-
ena pointedly called her attention to Snowden’s CIA service, suggest-
ing that he might possess CIA files. I also knew that in Kucherena’s
roman 4 clef, he had Joshua Frost, the thinly veiled Snowden-based
character, steal a vast number of CIA documents that could do great
damage to U.S. intelligence. By retaining them, Frost made himself
a prime target of the CIA.

So I asked, “Is Joshua Frost fact or fiction?”

“T can’t tell you that,” he said. “If I said he was Snowden, it would
violate the attorney-client privilege.”

“T understand,” I said. “But did Snowden do what Frost did in
your book?”

“That is for you to decide,” he answered with a sly smile. “It’s my
first novel.”

When I asked if he could arrange for me to see Snowden, he

© said that first I would have to submit my questions to Ben Wizner, ©
Snowden’s American lawyer at the ACLU. He made it clear to me
that the exposure of Snowden to journalists, or at least the vetting of
journalists, had been outsourced to Wizner. Kucherena was handling
Snowden’s liaisons with the Russian authorities while Wizner was
handling the Snowden narrative, including selecting the media out-
lets. Presumably, Wizner had handpicked Snowden’s past interview-
ers in Moscow, including Barton Gellmna, James Bamford, Brian
Williams, John Oliver, Alan Rusbridger, and Katrina vanden Heuvel.

“After that, the final decision is up to Snowden,” he said. That
seemed to conclude the interview, but as I got up to leave, he added,
“His legal defense is fairly expensive.”

Snowden had said in a BBC interview in 2015, as previously men-
tioned, that he had brought enough cash to Hong Kong and Russia
to cover all of his expenses. So I asked Kucherena if Snowden had
brought his own funds.

“He was penniless when he arrived,” he replied. I found that
answer plausible because the FBI reportedly had not found a large
cash withdrawal from his account before his departure and it seemed

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.indd 270 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019758
