Download the full article
Top-Notch Security

M2M - Specialty Publications - April 6, 2007

M2M technology providers and system integrators often cite efficiency improvements and new
revenue opportunities as common indicators of return-on-investment. However, as more and more
customers use machine-to-machine applications to collect data, security has not only become a
top-notch priority for end users and OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) but also a highly
valued part of fostering a positive ROI.

According to IDC Corp., www.idc.com, Framingham, Mass., as devices enabling a mobile
workforce continue to shrink in size, the increased likelihood of losing devices, such as laptops,
mobile phones, BlackBerrys, has caused growing concern over the sensitive corporate information

they contain.
Smart Shoes Get Smarter

M2M - Specialty Publications - April 2, 2007

Smart shoes just got a little smarter. The newest models of GPS-enabled (global positioning
system) shoes from Global Trek Xploration Corp. (GTXC), www.gtxcorp.com, Los Angeles,
Calif., will now be equipped with wireless and location modules from Enfora
Inc.,www.enfora.com, Plano, Texas.

GTXC chose Enfora’s Enabler ITG-A-GPS modules for its robust and accurate platform, company
executive say. Eric Stalnaker vice president of business development at GTXC explains, “Enfora
and the Enabler II provide us with an integrated approach to software, Internet connectivity, and

customization that lets us focus on our product and service offering.”
Wireless Briefs

by Andrew D. Smith | Dallas Morning News | Thursday, March 29, 2007

Few at conference get to soul of GPS shoe

Satellite tracking services were expected to be one of the big attractions at this year's big wireless
conference in Orlando, but the satellite shoe seemed to surprise most of the people walking around
the convention floor.

Many passers-by Wednesday furrowed their brows or shook their heads at what appeared to be a
silly toy for spoiled yuppie joggers. Only a few investigated long enough to realize that the GPS

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018147
