On a per country example this has led to, for instance, an annual need for 3 million

FC2 female condoms in Uganda, and no funding to procure. A need of 1 million
female condoms annually in Kenya, and funding for only 230,000. A need of 6 million female
condoms annually in Zimbabwe and funding for only 3 million. And these are just some
examples of the many countries who do not receive their actual FC2 female condom need on
the continent of Africa.

Solution

Female Health Company would like to propose a partnership with new donors
in order to ensure that the need for the FC2 female condom is met in Africa to ensure

prevention of HIV/AIDS among the target groups that need it. FHC is committed to
providing the training and technical support to the countries and target groups to ensure correct
and safe usage of the FC2 female condom, if donors are willing to procure the female condoms

that are necessary in these countries. We could even create a specific donor brand for the

FC2 female condom, to increase brand recognition for the donor in the region while
saving lives together.

On Female Health Company

The Female Health Company manufactures, markets and sells the FC2 Female Condom. FC2 is the only currently
available female-controlled product approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and cleared by
the World Health Organization (WHO) for purchase by U.N. agencies that provides dual protection against
unintended pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections (STIs), including HIV/AIDS. The Company's first
generation product was the FC1 Female Condom, a Class III medical device approved by FDA in 1993. The
Company's second generation product, FC2, has been available globally since 2007, and in the U.S. since 2009
after it was approved by the FDA as a Class III medical device. To date, FHC has shipped its female condom to
over 140 countries worldwide.

Currently, there are only two FDA approved and marketed products that prevent the transmission of HIV/AIDS
through sexual intercourse: the male condom and FC2. FC2 is currently the only FDA approved and marketed
female-controlled product that prevents STIs, including HIV/AIDS. Used consistently and correctly, FC2 provides
women dual protection against STIs, including HIV/AIDS, and unintended pregnancy. When used correctly the
protection rates against unintended pregnancies are 95 percent for female condoms compared to 98 percent for
male condoms according to the FDA. FC2 is not seen as directly competing with the male condom; it provides an
alternative to either unprotected sex or male condom usage.

An economic analysis of the cost effectiveness of an FC2 HIV/AIDS prevention program conducted by Dr. David
Holtgrave, the chairman of the Department of Health Behavior and Society at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg
School of Public Health, was featured in the March 26, 2012 issue of AIDS and Behavior. The study showed that
the Washington, D.C. FC2 prevention program, a public-private partnership to provide and promote FC2,
prevented enough HIV infections in the first year alone to save over $8 million in avoided future medical care
costs (over and above the cost of approximately $445,000 for the program). This means that for every dollar spent
on the program, there was a cost savings of nearly $20. In the article Dr. Holtgrave concluded, These results
clearly indicate that delivery of, and education about, Female Condoms is an effective HIV prevention intervention
and an outstanding public health investment. Washington, D.C. began its program in 2010 to fight a disease that
is at epidemic levels. At least 3 percent of Washington, D.C. residents have HIV or AIDS, a prevalence rate that
is the highest of any U.S. city.

In May 2014, a business case was published by Global Health Visions, LLC, commissioned by Rutgers WPF, the
advocacy partner of the Universal Access to Female Condoms (UAFC) Joint Programme. Part of the publication
was a study comparing total expected costs with total estimated economic benefits and it determined there was an

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_027072
