data - our DNA, our wedding photos, our hopeful voice mails and most essential
knowledge, our small savings against disaster. In its speed and its depth, in its
increasingly comprehensive grasp of each of us and our world, this new network
order is at once the most amazing thing we've ever created and the most terrifying.
But recall, for a moment, Hillis’s dream for his parallel computer: “The ability to
configure the topology of the machine to match the topology of the problem.” What
if we really could rewire our thinking, our networks and politics and economics to
match the problems we face now? Finally, with the Seventh Sense kicking alive in
each of us, we can at least see the topological landscape where such a construction
might occur. Now we must turn to the exciting question of just how we’d configure it
to do our bidding.

We've covered a lot so far; perhaps it is worth a glance back.

First, we’ve come to see how networks really operate, the way in which they breed a
lively connected skein that concentrates and distributes power. These systems are,
as a result of their very design, plucking apart many of our old structures and ideas.
Recall my dad, the doctor, ripped one direction by millions of disease advice
websites (distribution) and in the other by massive diagnostic databases
(concentration). This pulling process creates too, as we saw: Billion-user firms (and
billion dollar fortunes) bred with breathtaking speed. Drones, derivatives, waves of
migrants torn from their states but plugged into technological tapestries - all of
these are products of network power. Connection, we learned, changes the nature of
any object. You. Me. Money. Terrorists. Pretty much anything. And because there is a
lot more of the world that has not yet been fully connected, it’s easy to see that we
live in a revolutionary age.

Second, we learned that the world of networks is complex. It’s made up of many
complicated pieces, but complexity is something entirely different: It’s the
unpredictable and colliding evolution you might see in a rainforest, where
uncountable forces intermingle to produce life and death, growth and change.
Scientists call this “emergence” - and it is happening on all our connected systems.
Connection produces new, ripplingly powerful and unpredictable structures. The
Arab Spring. The 2008 financial crisis. Connection changes complicated objects not
least by making them complex. This is why our whole world, even the parts we
might expect to be most stable, whips around now with a new and wild energy. Ina
way, we Saw, this should reward a careful confidence: Go ahead and break the old
systems. Something new will emerge.

Third, we followed the trail of hackers like the Warez Dudes and discovered
something unnerving about the networks around us. Not only are they
honeycombed with dangerous and unpatchable holes, but historically unmatched
amounts of power rests in their central cores. The reason hackers are so eager to get
to these kernels of power is that in doing so they can manipulate entire landscapes
of power with a profound efficiency. A “weird machine,” fired with an invisible and
dangerous hacked logic, is a possibility that flutters through any network. Trade.
Politics. Finance. Choices made in the center of network systems will redound on

147

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018379
