Or
>
A
“Bw
Plan
fon on

CHAPTER Ill Cannabis Industry Segmentation

Cultivation Process Overview: Seed to Bud
Time Seed Selection

Selecting a seed is the first step of the cultivation process. A cultivator can
choose from more than 1,500 unique seed varieties, each of which has the
capacity to produce a cannabis strain with a particular cannabinoid and
terpene profile and other unique characteristics.

Seedling

The seedling stage is the period during which the seed sprouts and the
1-4 plant stem starts to grow. During this stage, cultivators manage growth to
Weeks avoid long stems that may lack the strength to support further vegetation.

Start

Vegetative

The vegetative stage is characterized by the plant’s rapid growth and reve-

lation of sexual characteristics. During this stage, cultivators remove male

3-8 plants and control growth inputs, such as light and nutrients, to maximize

Weeks the plant’s yield of unpollinated female flower (which generally contains
the highest concentration of active compounds).

The flowering phase comprises the growth and maturation of the cannabis
flower and the trichomes on the flower. Trichomes are hairlike components
6-16 that secrete cannabinoids, terpenes and other compounds. Trichomes gen-
Weeks erally occur all over the surface of the plant, but are found in highest con-
centration on the flowers of unpollinated female plants.

Harvesting involves clipping the leafstalks (on which the flowers grow)

from the main plant stem, drying the leafstalks and flowers, and trimming ' :

the dried flowers. Cultivators harvest at a time calculated to maximize ” agnnstitl
¥

2-4 flower yield and optimize cannabinoid and terpene content. WNP ;
Weeks rit

The curing phase is a period of controlled fermentation of the dry canna-

Wests bis flower. The conditions under which fermentation occurs, as well as the
duration of the fermentation process, further affect the cannabis flower’s
aroma, taste and cannabinoid composition.

3-10
Months

© 2017 Ackrell Capital, LLC | Member FINRA/SIPC 33

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024669
