2014] CRIME VICTIMS’ RIGHTS 67

independent standing to assert.** Congress viewed these provisions as
establishing a victim’s right “to participate in the process where the
information that [victims] and their families can provide may be material
and relevant... .”°°

Congress appears to have had both intrinsic and instrumental reasons
for wanting crime victim participation. Congress clearly thought that such
participation was valuable in its own night. Senator Kyl embodied this
belief and explained his decision to become involved in the crime victims’
rights movement because of his discovery that victims:

were suffering through the trauma of the victimization and then being thrown into a
system which they did not understand, which nobody was helping them with, and
which literally prevented them from participation in any meaningful way. I came to
realize there were literally millions of people out there being denied these basic
rights. ...

But Congress also thought crime victim participation in the criminal
justice system could be instrumentally useful. For example, in protecting a
victim’s right to be heard by those determining a defendant’s sentence, a
victim might be able to provide important information that could alter that
sentence. As a result, the sentence might reflect a fuller appreciation of the
danger posed by a defendant, and the judge might take appropriate steps to
prevent others from being victimized.*’

Congress also intended to ensure that crime victims were not
revictimized in the criminal justice process—that is, that they would not
suffer what scholars have called “secondary harm” in the process.** The
concem is that victims suffer when they are excluded from the criminal
justice process. Congress sought to end that suffering by making victims
meaningful participants in criminal cases.*°

C. AN ILLUSTRATION OF THE PRE-CHARGING ISSUE: THE JEFFREY
EPSTEIN CASE

Given the potentially expansive scope of victims’ rights under both
state provisions and the CVRA, a critical question arises about how to apply
them: Do the nghts come into existence only after prosecutors formally file

34 Compare 18 U.S.C. § 3771(d), with Susan Bandes, Victim Standing, 1999 Utau L. REV.
331, 344-45 (illustrating the debate surrounding victim standing prior to adoption of the CVRA).

35 150 Conc. REc. 7296 (statement of Sen. Dianne Feinstein).

3° Td. at 7298 (statement of Sen. Jon Kyl).

37 Td.

38 See, e.g., Douglas Evan Beloof, The Third Model of Criminal Process: The Victim
Participation Model, 1999 UTAHL. REV. 289, 294-96; Richard A. Bierschbach, Allocution and
the Purposes of Victim Participation Under the CVRA, 19 FED. SENT’G REP. 44, 46 (2006).

3° 150 Conc. REC. 7298 (statement of Sen. Jon Kyl).

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014046
