financial systems. Fresh AI designs. Protocols and platforms for secure
communication. Maybe one million people can write object-oriented code at a high
level. A hundred thousand of them can shape that code into some sort of innovative
data structure. A few thousand might be able to use it to access and manage a large
data center. But get down to the couple of dozen who know how Google or Intel or
bitcoin really work, the group who can make machines seem to think, who know
and use backdoors at that atomic level of hacking - well, then you have a tight,
powerful elite. They are called system designers, algorithmic traders, growth
hackers or any of a dozen hazy and somewhat unnamable lines of work that fuse
network mastery with economic, political or social power. If connection changes the
nature of an object it also elevates, to a level of rare power and influence, those who
control that connection.

Through the networks and black boxes they control, the group of transcendent
talents working on search algorithms, data management and machine learning
touch, at any one instant, more parts of our lives than any group of elites ever has.
That many of them are billionaires as a result should hardly be a surprise. This is a
caste marked by constant one upsmanship, by endless and compulsive innovation,
by a cold and ceaseless fear of obsolescence. They are marked, of course, by a full
expression of the Seventh Sense. Their every instinct for starting, financing, growing
and using new firms or technologies or data-spinning biological tools reflects
complete confidence in network power. If the leading figures of the Enlightenment
shared a certainty near to faith that reason would unlock nearly any puzzle of mind
or politics, the New Caste shares a certainty too, that connection can produce a new,
better order. This caste battles with each other. They struggle for dominance over
markets and - more profoundly - for control of the lucrative systems they have
built.

My point in this chapter is simple. It is to introduce this new and powerful caste and
see what their successes and failures might tell us about the world we now all share.
Even now, however, I think we can make this sobering judgment: Whatever nation
cultivates and trains legions of this New Caste best will rule the future. Think of the
legendary Xerox PARC research lab, which in the 1970s produced not just some of
the best early members of the New Caste - like Alan Kay or John Seeley Brown- but
also a series of fundamental inventions that generated trillions of dollars of value?®!.
The mouse. Laser printing. A graphical user interface. PARC was arguably the most
economically significant small group in human history, an entire Renaissance
packed into a couple of dozen offices. Just as the nations that produced the finest
mariners once dominated global commerce and decided political questions, so
countries (or really any group - even terrorists or criminals or bankers) that can
breed, train and equip and deploy members of this New Caste will possess a really
unusual power. Calling them a “caste” is not accidental: There’s a way in which we
are all now tied to the virtual spaces they control, much as serfs were once bound to
the land by feudal lords. The Italian historian Giambattista Vico, in developing his

161 Think of the legendary Xerox PARC: Chunka Mui, “The Lesson that Market
Leaders are Failing to Learn from Xerox PARC”; Forbes Leadership Blog / Alan Kay

113

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018345
