transition might have been almost inevitable given the ‘right’ environment. We just
don’t know -- nor do we know if the DNA/RNA chemistry of terrestrial life is the
only possibility, or just one chemical basis among many options that could be realized
elsewhere

LIFE

Moreover, even if simple life is widespread, we can't assess the odds that it evolves
into a complex biosphere. And, even it did, it might anyway be unrecognizably
different.

And, by the way, it’s too anthropocentric to limit attention to Earth-like planets.
Carl Sagan and his Cornell colleague Ed Salpeter, envisaged balloon-like creatures
floating in the dense atmospheres of Jupiter-like planets. We should also be mindful
that seemingly artificial emissions could come from super-intelligent (though not
necessarily conscious) computers, created by a race of alien beings that had already
died out.

Indeed I think that’s the most likely option if evolution took a similar course to
what may happen on Earth.

If the emergence of technology ona planet lags significantly behind what has
happened on Earth then that planet would plainly reveal no evidence of ET. But life
around a star older than the Sun could have had a head-start of a billion years or
more. Thus it may already have ‘spawned’ the futuristic scenario — trasitioning from
organic to electronic -- that I envisaged as our Earth’s post-human future.

So even if SETI searches revealed some artificial emission, we’d be most unlikely to
‘catch’ alien intelligence in the brief sliver of time when it was still in organic form.
I think it’s less likely be a decodable message than to be a byproduct (or even a
malfunction) of some super-complex interstellar technology that could trace its
lineage back to alien organic beings (which might still exist on their home planet, or
might long ago have died out).

I won't hold my breath, but SETI programmes are a worthwhile gamble - because
success in the search would carry the momentous message that concepts of logic and
physics aren't limited to the hardware in human skulls.

Even if intelligence were widespread in the cosmos, we may only ever
recognise asmall and atypical fraction of it. Moreover , the habit of referring to ET as
an ‘alien civilisation’ may be too restrictive. A ‘civilisation’ connotes a society of
individuals: in contrast, ET might be a single integrated intelligence

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026741
