glad to see you are personally on the mend - as well as the fence. -- As you know i dread money
discussions with you-- however -we should address the issue of what you would like to do moving
forward. re- do family office, accounting trusts , estate and apollo agreements . Along with your 
payment last year we agreed . no further obligations on each side. yes, i continued to moan. I realize
that though Ive done quite a lot this year already _, it is not your responsibility. . As you often like to
remind me- you've paid a great deal of money to date. that being said - If you want my involvement
moving foward, Isuggest you pay my regular | fee of 40 m. 20 now . 20 on completion or as per the
invoice issues at the end of last year pay 30 all at once. -

To help out .im keenly aware of your current cash position. so I will consider an in-kind payment -
real estate ( Miami ), ,art , financing of my new plane (allows you to spread over years or of course the
preferred cash. Get rid of Castrucci,it is over a year since the same story of findign the right guy at the
top. youentire accounting needs to be re done. , office downsized, reporting re done. meetings to
recitify, categlorize , the various docs re appollo , rowen , suydam, alan etc. Brad can direct investment
guys, ( hopefully) my people will be in your office for a few months . reorganizing IF you decide not to
pay I fully understand, as Im sure you will re my no longer spending any serious time on these things.
Of course re any non financial issues , I am always there for you and will continue to be the best friend I
can be.

Steve jobs said that everyday he woke up , and asked himself , if he knew he was going to die tomorow ,
would he do the same thing that he had planned for the day- he wanted to check that he was doing things
that he really wanted to. after three days of getting back an answer of no, he would change what he was
going to do. . he also did not believe in LONG term plans. I dont think either one of us will figure out
what we want to do long term so my thinking is that we should try to have fun everyday, and welcome
serendipity.

I think another trust and estate lawyer should be brought in to deal with the issues of how not to allow
your family to get screwed by your partners on death. Alan, for years told me that paul weiss had drawn
the docs so no issue but when recently pushed by my new fire drill he asked akin to draft .?! PLease
ask brad about why he keeps talking about flow. I dont know what he means, its so silly .. this is only
about money control and protection .

I am leaving monday night now. free to speak in the afternoon

Date: Thu, Apr 28, 2016 at 1:55 PM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella - «Ss

Lets start. I am aware that you are currently angry at the world. . me, karp wechsler. even yourself,
all willing absorbers of the current high heat. (though you ,calling me ,Debra , did take away some of the
sting ) Iam sorry to see you this way.

emblematic ; I was asked to opine on whether to hire castrucci. an hour after I gave a preliminary yes.

. I called you then texted you that i had thought more about it and changed my mind. The next day brad
called and asked for my vote. I told him ,in no uncertain terms itisano , I categorically voteno. I
called you . youcame to see me. I said it was a bad idea. you said you were going to do it anyway , I
said and followed up in writing IT IS A MISTAKE . and added Please don't come back to me with
anything suggesting otherwise , you and I should be clear I think it is wrong . A very strong NO. you of
course can hire whomever you like.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023235
