From: jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com>
To:

Sent: Friday, January 9, 2015 1:44 PM
Subject: Re: we'll see

| only met Jeffrey Epstein, after | was adult. ( over 18). | was never, ever, his sex slave 

. obviously a lurid chauvenistic categorization. which in my opinion could only have been
made by some loser of a repressed male reporter. He was always kind , funny and generous to
me . These fantasy fabrications made by a delusional thief. ( charged with stealing from the
burger place and which she worked, though she claimed to paid thousands of dollars in cash

and held at the beck and call of the genious tycoon. ) . Her story telling had it been done while
sleeping would have been called dreaming, if awake, hallucinaitons but to the English press they
are referred to as allegations . She claimed in the minutest of detail , her dinner with President
Clinton on the Caribean Island, How he arrived . ( by black heli). where he sat. ,(on jeffreys

left.) a21st century tale of power, sex, money. The fact is that this story is total make
believe , fabricated on purpose to gain tabloid attention ,and easily refuted by readily availalble
travel records of a former president. . it defies belief that any person would take seriously such
a preposterous story. little different than her telling her father that sne met the queen, whoops- he
believed her though her mother at the relevant time complained that she must have been
engaging in satan worship and asked that she be put her in a drug home. cmon. | am currenty a
professional pilot with a spotless record. | have a checklist that | follow before every flight to verify
that things are what they are supposed to be , checking her story which the presss has refused to
do would serve the public well. In this case human error is merely a euphmisn for hijacking the
truth ,

On Fri, Jan 9, 2015 at 2:10 PM,ยง a wot:

Apparently...

They are now asking how my parents bought a building in town...implying it was all the money they got for selling me :)
Getting ugly..

From: jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com>
To: Nadia <nadja2102@yahoo.com>
Sent: Friday, January 9, 2015 12:50 PM
Subject: Re: we'll see

notable?

On Fri, Jan 9, 2015 at 1:44 PM, i rote:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022198
