was a horrifying face. The president’s worst impulses seem to run through Conway
without benefit of a filter. She compounded Trump’s anger, impulsiveness, and miscues.
Whereas a presidential adviser was supposed to buffer and interpret his gut calls, Conway
expressed them, doubled down on them, made opera out of them. She took Trump’s
demand for loyalty too literally. In Ivanka and Jared’s view, Conway was a cussed,
antagonistic, self-dramatizing cable head, and Powell, they hoped, would be a deliberate,
circumspect, adult guest on the Sunday morning shows.

By late February, after the first helter-skelter month in the West Wing, the campaign by
Jared and Ivanka to undermine Bannon seemed to be working. The couple had created a
feedback loop, which included Scarborough and Murdoch, that reinforced the president’s
deep annoyance with and frustration about Bannon’s purported importance in the White
House. For weeks after the 7Zime magazine cover story featuring Bannon, there was hardly
a conversation in which Trump didn’t refer to it bitterly. (“He views Zime covers as zero
sum,” said Roger Ailes. “If someone else gets on it, he doesn’t.”) Scarborough, cruelly,
kept up a constant patter about President Bannon. Murdoch forcefully lectured the
president about the oddness and extremism of Bannonism, linking Bannon with Ailes:
“They’re both crazy,” he told Trump.

Kushner also pressed the view to the president—ever phobic about any age-related
weakness—that the sixty-three-year-old Bannon wouldn’t hold up under the strain of
working in the White House. Indeed, Bannon was working sixteen- and eighteen-hour
days, seven days a week, and, for fear of missing a presidential summons or afraid that
someone else might grab it, he considered himself on call pretty much all night. As the
weeks went by, Bannon seemed physically to deteriorate in front of everybody’s eyes: his
face became more puffy, his legs more swollen, his eyes more bleary, his clothes more
slept in, his attention more distracted.

OOK Ok

As Trump’s second month in office began, the Jared-[vanka-Gary-Dina camp focused on
the president’s February 28 speech to the joint session of Congress.

“Reset,” declared Kushner. “Total reset.”

The occasion provided an ideal opportunity. Trump would have to deliver the speech in
front of him. It was not only on the teleprompter but distributed widely beforehand.
What’s more, the well-mannered crowd wouldn’t egg him on. His handlers were in
control. And for this occasion at least, Jared-Ivanka-Gary-Dina were the handlers.

“Steve will take credit for this speech if there’s even one word of his in it,” Ivanka told
her father. She knew well that for Trump, credit, much more than content, was the hot-
button driver, and her comment ensured that Trump would keep it out of Bannon’s hands.

“The Goldman speech,” Bannon called it.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019994
