Depending on the particular behavior
and interaction in question, behavioral
cycles of interpersonal entrainment can
range from milliseconds to hours.
Indeed, this kind of interpersonal
entrainment is a pervasive phenomenon
not specific to human social behavior
alone’,

When does synchronized
clapping occur? The distinctive feature
of such an event is a convergence
between the neural mechanisms
underlying the monitoring of the
movement of others and the execution of
one’s own movements. The specific
factors responsible for the tipping point
from asynchronous to synchronous
clapping are not yet known, but
descriptively each individual shifts the
timing of his or her subsequent clap to
the perceived timing of claps by the
whole collective. Thus, a continuous
adjustment process emerges in the form
of a collective behavior (synchronized
clapping) to which each individual
contributes and no single individual
controls. Such continuous monitoring of
the collective rather than individuals
within the collective and the adjustment
of one’s own movements to synchronize
one’s behavior with that of the collective
result in a continuous loop of performing
the very same action leading to
dissolution between self and other and
the emergence of an entrained unit. The
resulting effect is the materialization of a
supra-individual behavioral
phenomenon, namely extended
behavioral cycles that are locked
together in time. Although the
emergence of clapping in unison can be
regarded as a phenomenon worthy of
more detailed understanding, it does not
induce in its performers the necessity of
searching for an explanation since the
readily available account is that the

Page |62

performance somehow produces
synchronous clapping.

There is preliminary evidence
that even with no externally imposed
demands prolonged synchronization
emerges within pairs of people
interacting or dyads’. What one finds is
that despite individual differences in
movements, participants entrain (tap
together in time) rapidly when
participants can perceive the behavior of
others’. Extensive research in
coordination dynamics has demonstrated
that such entrainment does not depend
on the intention to coordinate behavior
'. 1 Studies have repeatedly shown that
there is a spontaneous propensity to
mimic other people (generally observed
in dyads). One implication this kind of
behavioral synchrony is the emergence
of affective bonding — such as a feeling
of rapport — both in the case of mimicry
and between the synchronized partners'”.
One might conjecture that positive
feelings are even stronger when more
people are synchronized.

The conditions that lead to
behavioral synchrony can vary. It is
interesting that people may be more
likely to experience the dissolution of
self-other boundaries when
synchronization is produced without any
obvious external director and is
continuous. Prolonged spontaneous and
unintended entrainment among three or
more people may introduce this feeling,
because the emergence of synchrony
cannot be attributed to a single external
cause.

Conclusions

Social interaction involving
extended periods of synchronized
behavior are not part of our daily
experience, particularly when they
involve more than two people. How do

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021308
