122 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

and student loans to credit scores and overdrafts in personal bank
accounts. This ubiquitous surveillance of virtually every non-cash
transaction came about because of advances in computer technology
that made it economically feasible to mine such data.

Snowden’s concern about NSA domestic surveillance is certainly
not misplaced. Ever since the 9/11 attacks, the NSA has increasingly
played a role in this surveillance state, not by its own choice, but
because Congress mandated it. In 2001, it empowered the NSA to
obtain and archive data on American citizens. Accordingly, the NSA
obtained the billing records of customers from phone and Internet
companies and archived these records. The bulk collection of these
billing records was intended to build a searchable database for the
government that could be used to trace the history of the telephone
and Internet activities in the United States of FBI-designated foreign
terrorists and spies abroad. The government’s rationale for keeping
these anti-terrorist programs secret from the public was that it did
not want the foreign suspects to realize their communications in
America were being monitored.

© The public only learned that the phone company was routinely ©
turning over its billing records on June 6, 2013, when Snowden dis-
closed it to The Guardian and The Washington Post. The documents
he provided the journalists showed that the NSA had been obtain-
ing phone records collected by Verizon every three months. While
this revelation might have shocked the American public, the NSA
had not acted on its own. It had acted under a warrant issued by a
secret court established by Congress in 1978 as part of the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Act for each request for records. Congress
empowered the FISA court, whose judges are appointed by the pres-
ident, to hear cases and authorize search warrants in secret in cases
involving national security.

As its name implies, the FISA court was meant to deal with matters
bearing on foreign intelligence activities in the United States. That
restriction changed after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001.
A month after the attacks, Congress expanded the purview of the
FISA court by passing the USA Patriot Act (an acronym that stands
for Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate
Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism). Part of the

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 122 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019610
