COWEN
COLLABORATIVE INSIGHTS

February 25, 2019

Canadian LP Commentary on CBD

In addition to the public companies already actively involved in the hemp / CBD market,
we would note that all of the major Canadian public cannabis companies have been
vocal in terms of expressing their interest in the space, as reflected in the below
commentary.

Aphria (APH)

“Depending on the country, there is a lot of movement in Europe...with a CBD light. That
CBD, that source from hemp, and what we are contemplating in certain countries,
Portugal being one, Italy being one.” Chairman, CEO & President Victor Neufeld (1919
Earnings Call)

Aurora (ACB)

“I think the hemp industry, | tell a lot of the people here that | think it's going to be as
big or bigger than the cannabis industry.” Founder, CEO and Director Terry Booth (4Q18
Earnings Call)

“We've got -- obviously, we're first mover in the hemp space out of any other of our
competitors. And we'll enter when it's proper to enter and when it's legal to enter into
the United States market.” Founder, CEO and Director Terry Booth (2019 Earnings Call)

Canopy Growth (WEED, Outperform, C$82 PT)

“But CBD every day is moving through a progression where it's going to become part of
the normal course available ingredient set..and | think we're doing a very good job of
getting in front of that.” CEO Bruce Linton (1Q19 Earnings Call)

“CBD is] going to come down to who gets the data to get the branded product that
actually works. And | think we're doing a very good job on that and | believe we have a
leadership position on that.” CEO Bruce Linton (2Q19 Earnings Call)

Cronos (CRON)

“At Cronos, we seek to build the world's most innovative cannabinoid company, where
we develop and research efficient processes to effectively produce and formulate the
full spectrum of cannabinoids, not just THC and CBD.” Chairman, President & CEO
Michael Gorenstein (3Q18 Earnings Call)

Emblem Corp (EMC)

On 8/1/18, Emblem and GreenSpace announced a strategic partnership to develop and
commercialize CBD infused health and beauty products for the expected adult-use
cannabis market. (Press Release)

“Emblem's partnership with GreenSpace Brands is an industry first and represents an
incredible opportunity to capitalize on the growing CBD market in Canada.” CEO Nick
Dean (Press Release)

Emerald Health Therapeutics (EMH)

Emerald secured over 500 acres of hemp harvest in 2018 and has contracted for
approximately 1000 acres in 2019 to 2022, with the objective of extracting low-cost
cannabidiol (CBD). (Press Release)

On September 26, 2018 the Company entered into a long-term supply agreement to
obtain harvested hemp chaff, plant material consisting of mainly flower and leaf. The
supply agreement was signed with Emerald Health Hemp Inc. to purchase CBD
containing hemp biomass for extraction into CBD oil. (Press Release)

COWEN.COM 57

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024873
