NAUTILUS EDUCATION | BETA PRODUCT

patient (who doesn’t want her name made public)
had such a wonderful response to everolimus, the tech-
nology was ripe to analyze her entire tumor.

The outlier patient had already gone through sev-
eral rounds of treatment, including surgery at Memo-
nial Sloan-Kettering. That was another stroke of luck
because tt allowed Solit’s group to acquire samples of
her tissue to be sequenced. Cancers typically start with
mutations that cause cells to divide too much, ignoring
normal stop signals and evading quality controls that
repair or prevent errors in DNA reproduction. “Cancer
is a disease of mutations,” says Solit.

The outlier patient’s cancer had accumulated 17,136
mutations, of which 140 seemed most suspect, because
they appeared in “coding” regions of the genome, the
segments that include instructions on how to build the
proteins that do the work in a cell. Out of those 140,
two looked particularly menacing to Solit. In a gene
called TSC1, sust two of tts 8,600 DNA base-pairs were
missing, but the error would cause the gene to make a
defective version of the protein it was supposed to cre-
ate. In the gene NF2, an error meant a protemn would
be built only halfway, unable to do its job.

Solit could now see how these mutations were
affected by everolimus, a drug typically used to sup-
press the immune system after organ transplants, and
to combat advanced kidney cancer. Everolimus shuts
down one crucial link in a chain of interacting proteins
called the mTOR pathway that fuels cell growth, divi-
sion, and survival. The drug mhibits the cells of the
immune system from dividing, which they must do in
order to attack foreign tissue, and protects transplant-
ed organs. Likewise, it slows down the uncontrolled
cell division that happens in cancer. The kicker was
that both of the woman’s mutations, NF2 and TSC1,
affect the mTOR system. “It’s not surprising, in ret-
rospect, that our patient responded really well to this
specific drug,” Solit says. “She had the mutation that
activated the pathway the drug targets.”

Solit’s team analyzed 13 more people from the tri-
al and found different TSC1 mutations in three other
people, mcluding two whose tumor shrank a Iittle in
response to the drug. (Nobody else had NF2 mutations,
which is probably why she alone responded dramati-
cally.) Meanwhile, eight of nine people whose tumors
grew during the study did not have the mutation.

38

DOROSHOW OF THE National Cancer Institute says

Solit’s work “turned on the lightbulb.” It showed how

the analysis of exceptional responders could be made

systematic. Inspired by his example, the NCI is now

trawling through its own archives, revisiting outlier
responses among the roughly 10,000 patients who
enrolled in NCI-sponsored clinical trials during the

last decade. Picture the long rows of crates in the gov-
ernment warehouse at the end of Raiders of the Lost Ark:

There’s treasure in there somewhere, if only someone
would look. “We ought to study these people more,
since we have the means now,” says Barbara Conley,
the associate director of the cancer diagnosis program

at NCI, who leads the project.

In the few months since the project began, Con-
ley’s team have already found about 100 exception-
al responders. The next steps are to find out if their
tumors were biopsied, if that tissue sample 1s still sit-
ting in a freezer somewhere, and whether it’s in good
enough shape to be sequenced. Starting next year, the
group will start inviting any scientist who is doing a
clinical trial to submit new cases.

The NCI project will include whole-genome
sequencing (provided they have adequate tissue sam-
ples) and repeated reads of the whole “exome’—the
1 percent of human DNA that is translated into exons,
the sequences that are used as templates for protein
construction. The reason to do both, explains Conley, is
that cancer cells, even within a single tumor, often have
a hodgepodge of mutations. Re-doing whole exome
sequencing dozens of times captures most of the sig-

nificant genetic variation in one tumor, and it’s more
practical than trying to sequence the whole genome
over and over. Finally, RNA expression will also be ana-
lyzed. Evaluating RNA, an intermediary between DNA
and proteins, provides a measure of which genes are
switched on and how much protein they’re producing.

Other elite cancer research centers and genome-
sequencing centers have similar in-house projects.
Much like the NCI project, the unusual responder pro-
gram at the University of Texas, MD Anderson Cancer
Center, is beginning by combing through the archives
to hunt for outliers of the past. A patient at the clinic
who has an unusual response—good or bad—will also
be referred for genome sequencing and other kinds of
geneticanalysis.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015498
