XII AUTHOR’S NOTE

4 4%

I am joined in my train-wreck fascination with Trump—that certain
knowledge that in the end he will destroy himself—by, I believe, almost
everyone who has encountered him since he was elected president.
To have worked anywhere near him is to be confronted with the most
extreme and disorienting behavior possible. That is hardly an overstate-
ment. Not only is Trump not like other presidents, he is not like anyone
most of us have ever known. Hence, everyone who has been close to him
feels compelled to try to explain him and to dine out on his head-smacking
peculiarities. It is yet one more of his handicaps: all the people around
him, however much they are bound by promises of confidentiality or
nondisclosure agreements or even friendship, cannot stop talking about
their experience with him. In this sense, he is more exposed than any
president in history.

Many of the people in the White House who helped me during the
writing of Fire and Fury are now outside of the administration, yet they are
as engaged as ever by the Trump saga. I am grateful to be part of this sub-
stantial network. Many of Trump’s pre-White House cronies continue to
both listen to him and support him; at the same time, as an expression both
of their concern and of their incredulity, they report among one another,
and to others as well, on his temper, mood, and impulses. In general, I
have found that the closer people are to him, the more alarmed they have
found themselves at various points about his mental state. They all spec-
ulate about how this will end—badly for him, they almost all conclude.
Indeed, Trump is probably a much better subject for writers interested in
human capacities and failings than for most of the reporters and writers
who regularly cover Washington and who are primarily interested in the
pursuit of success and power.

My primary goal in Siege is to create a readable and intuitive narrative—
that is its nature. Another goal is to write the near equivalent of a real-time
history of this extraordinary moment, since understanding it well after
the fact might be too late. A final goal is pure portraiture: Donald Trump
as an extreme, almost hallucinatory, and certainly cautionary, Amer-
ican character. To accomplish this, to gain the perspective and to find

AUTHOR’S NOTE XIII

the voices necessary to tell the larger story, I provided anonymity to any
source who requested it. In cases where I have been told—on the prom-
ise of no attribution—about an unreported event or private conversation
or remark, I have made every effort to confirm it with other sources or
documents. In some cases, I have witnessed the events or conversations
described herein. With regard to the Mueller investigation, the narrative
I provide is based on internal documents given to me by sources close to
the Office of the Special Counsel.
Dealing with sources in the Trump White House has continued to
offer its own set of unique issues. A basic requirement of working there
is, surely, the willingness to infinitely rationalize or delegitimize the truth,
and, when necessary, to outright lie. In fact, I believe this has caused some
of the same people who have undermined the public trust to become pri-
vate truth-tellers. This is their devil’s bargain. But for the writer, interview-
ing such Janus-faced sources creates a dilemma, for it requires depending
on people who lie to also tell the truth—and who might later disavow the
truth they have told. Indeed, the extraordinary nature of much of what
has happened in the Trump White House is often baldly denied by its
spokespeople, as well as by the president himself. Yet in each successive
account of this administration, the level of its preposterousness—even as
that bar has been consistently raised—has almost invariably been con-
firmed.
In an atmosphere that promotes, and frequently demands, hyperbole,
tone itself becomes a key part of accuracy. For instance, most crucially,
the president, by a wide range of the people in close contact with him, is
often described in maximal terms of mental instability. “I have never met
anyone crazier than Donald Trump” is the wording of one staff member
who has spent almost countless hours with the president. Something like
this has been expressed to me bya dozen others with firsthand experience.
How do you translate that into a responsible evaluation of this singular
White House? My strategy is to try to show and not tell, to describe the
broadest context, to communicate the experience, to make it real enough
for a reader to evaluate for him- or herself where Donald Trump falls on a
vertiginous sliding scale of human behavior. It is that condition, an emo-
tional state rather than a political state, that is at the heart of this book.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021123
