10,

Il.

Case 1:19-cv-03377 Document 1-13 Filed 04/16/19 Page 4 of 4

the July 6, 2015 meeting, Mr. Dershowitz expressed to me that he believed he was
making progress in convincing Mr. Boies that the client was mistaken in identifying Mr.
Dershowitz as someone with whom she had sex. I told Mr. Dershowitz that I thought he
was overly optimistic and reading things into what Mr. Boies was saying and hearing
what he wanted to hear. I truly believe this was the case, i.e., that Mr. Boies was making
careful and guarded statements consistent with statements lawyers often make in
settlement discussions and that Mr. Dershowitz, who urgently wanted the case to go
away, was reading things into those statements that weren’t there.

My recollection is that, at all times, Mr. Boies remained adamant that the client’s
assertions about Mr. Dershowitz represented her best, honest recollection. For example,
at one point, Mr. Dershowitz told Mr. Boies that Ms. Roberts could well believe that she
had sex with Mr. Dershowitz because she might be confusing Mr. Dershowitz with
Nathan Myhrvold who spent a lot of time with Mr. Epstein and who looked a lot like Mr.
Dershowitz. Mr. Dershowitz urged Mr. Boies to convince his client that she was
mistaken and that she had actually had sex with Mr. Myhrvold. Mr. Boies told Mr.
Dershowitz that he obviously did not have personal knowledge as to what had or had not
happened, but that he had taken steps to verify that Ms. Roberts was telling the truth as
she believed it. Shortly thereafter, 1 came to understand that Ms. Roberts had taken, and
passed, a lie detector test.

At no time in my presence, whether in the presence of Mr. Dershowitz or outside of it,
did Mr. Boies ever say that he believed or was convinced that Ms. Roberts was mistaken
or that Mr. Dershowitz did not have sex with Ms. Roberts. Ms. McCawley said very little
at the meetings. Furthermore, I do not recall Ms. McCawley ever expressing any doubt
that Mr. Dershowitz had sex with Ms. Roberts and I am confident that I would recall such
a statement if it was made, given the circumstances. In addition, Mr. Dershowitz never
suggested to me that Ms. McCawley doubted that Ms. Robert’s allegations were false.

ones _

avid S. Stone

KAITLIN MAY LUZZI
ID # 2448450
NOTARY PUBLIC
evATE QF NEW JERSEY
My Commission Expires July 31, 2019

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018033
