disclosure documents. Investment strategies explained in this report may not be appropriate at all times. Costs of such strategies do not include commission or margin expenses.

BofA Merrill Lynch is aware that the implementation of the ideas expressed in this report may depend upon an investor's abi
action may be limited by regulations prohibiting or restricting shortselling” in many jurisdictions. Investors are urged to seek
executing any short idea contained in this report.

This report may contain a trading idea or recommendation which highlights a specific identified near-term catalyst or event i

ideas and recommendations may differ directionally from the analyst's rating on a security or issuer because they reflect the

effectively assume currency risk.
UK Readers: The protections provided by the U.K. regulatory regime, including the Financial Services Scheme, do not apply in

ime, hold a trading position (long or short) in the securities and financial instruments discussed in this report.

ocated outside of the United Kingdom. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research policies relating to conflicts of interest are described at http://go.bofa.com/coi.
LPF&S or one of its affiliates is a regular issuer of traded financial instruments linked to securities that may have been recommended in this report. MLPF&S or one of its affiliates may, at any

lity to short securities or other financial instruments and that such
advice regarding the applicability of such regulations prior to

mpacting a security, issuer, industry sector or the market generally

hat presents a transaction opportunity, but does not have any impact on the analyst’s particular “Overweight” or “Underweight” rating (which is based on a three month trade horizon). Trading

impact of a near-term catalyst or event.

Foreign currency rates of exchange may adversely affect the value, price or income of any security or financial instrument mentioned in this report. Investors in such securities and instruments

general to business coordinated by BofA Merrill Lynch entities

BofA Merrill Lynch, through business units other than BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, may have issued and may in the future issue trading ideas or recommendations that are inconsistent
with, and reach different conclusions from, the information presented in this report. Such ideas or recommendations reflect the different time frames, assumptions, views and analytical

methods of the persons who prepared them, and BofA Merrill Lynch is under no obligation to ensure that such other trading
recipient of this report.

ideas or recommendations are brought to the attention of any

In the event that the recipient received this report pursuant to a contract between the recipient and MLPF&S for the provision of research services for a separate fee, and in connection
therewith MLPF&S may be deemed to be acting as an investment adviser, such status relates, if at all, solely to the person with whom MLPF&S has contracted directly and does not extend
beyond the delivery of this report (unless otherwise agreed specifically in writing by MLPF&S). MLPF&S is and continues to act solely as a broker-dealer in connection with the execution of any

transactions, including transactions In any securities mentioned in this report.
Copyright and General Information regarding Research Reports:
Copyright 2016 Bank of America Corporation. All rights reserved. This research report is prepared for the use of BofA Merrill L

ynch clients and may not be redistributed, retransmitted or

disclosed, in whole or in part, or in any form or manner, without the express written consent of BofA Merrill Lynch. BofA Merrill Lynch research reports are distributed simultaneously to internal
and client websites and other portals by BofA Merrill Lynch and are not publicly-available materials. Any unauthorized use or disclosure is prohibited. Receipt and review of this research report

constitutes your agreement not to redistribute, retransmit, or disclose to others the contents, opinions, conclusion, or information contained in this report (including any investment
recommendations, estimates or price targets) without first obtaining expressed permission from an authorized officer of BofA Merrill Lynch.

Materials prepared by BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research personnel are based on public information. Facts and views presented in this material have not been reviewed by, and may not reflect
information known to, professionals in other business areas of BofA Merrill Lynch, including investment banking personnel. BofA Merrill Lynch has established information barriers between
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research and certain business groups. As a result, BofA Merrill Lynch does not disclose certain client relationships with, or compensation received from, such issuers in
research reports. To the extent this report discusses any legal proceeding or issues, it has not been prepared as nor is it intended to express any legal conclusion, opinion or advice. Investors

ou

Oo
professionals in other business areas of BofA Merrill Lynch in connection with the legal proceedings or matters relevant to su
4

report containing such rating, recommendation or investment thesis.

seek tax advice based on their particular circumstances from an independent tax professional.
The information herein (other than disclosure information relating to BofA Merrill Lynch and its affiliates) was obtained from

hould consult their own legal advisers as to issues of law relating to the subject matter of this report. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research personnel’s knowledge of legal proceedings in which
ny BofA Merrill Lynch entity and/or its directors, officers and employees may be plaintiffs, defendants, co-defendants or co-plaintiffs with or involving issuers mentioned in this report is based
n public information. Facts and views presented in this material that relate to any such proceedings have not been reviewed by, discussed with, and may not reflect information known to,

ch proceedings.

his report has been prepared independently of any issuer of securities mentioned herein and not in connection with any proposed offering of securities or as agent of any issuer of any
securities. None of MLPF&S, any of its affiliates or their research analysts has any authority whatsoever to make any representation or warranty on behalf of the issuer(s}. BofA Merrill Lynch
Global Research policy prohibits research personnel from disclosing a recommendation, investment rating, or investment thesis for review by an issuer prior to the publication of a research

Any information relating to the tax status of financial instruments discussed herein is not intended to provide tax advice or to be used by anyone to provide tax advice. Investors are urged to

various sources and we do not guarantee its accuracy. This report

may contain links to third-party websites. BofA Merrill Lynch is not responsible for the content of any third-party website or any linked content contained in a third-party website. Content

contained on such third-party websites is not part of this report and is not incorporated by reference into this report. The inc!

usion of a link in this report does not imply any endorsement by or

any affiliation with BofA Merrill Lynch. Access to any third-party website is at your own risk, and you should always review the terms and privacy policies at third-party websites before
submitting any personal information to them. BofA Merrill Lynch is not responsible for such terms and privacy policies and expressly disclaims any liability for them.
All opinions, projections and estimates constitute the judgment of the author as of the date of the report and are subject to change without notice. Prices also are subject to change without

notice. BofA Merrill Lynch is under no obligation to update this report and BofA Merrill Lynch's ability to publish research ont

Certain outstanding reports may contain discussions and/or investment opinions relating to securities, financial instruments
recent research report relating to an Issuer prior to making an investment decision.

periods. You should therefore assume that BofA Merrill Lynch will not update any fact, circumstance or opinion contained in this report.

he subject issuer(s) in the future is subject to applicable quiet

and/or issuers that are no longer current. Always refer to the most

either BofA Merrill Lynch nor any officer or employee of BofA Merrill Lynch accepts any liability whatsoever for any direct, in
his report or its contents.

n some cases, an issuer may be classified as Restricted or may be Under Review or Extended Review. In each case, investors should consider any investment opinion relating to such issuer (or
its security and/or financial instruments) to be suspended or withdrawn and should not rely on the analyses and investment opinion(s) pertaining to such issuer (or its securities and/or
inancial instruments) nor should the analyses or opinion(s) be considered a solicitation of any kind. Sales persons and financial advisors affiliated with MLPF&S or any of its affiliates may not
solicit purchases of securities or financial instruments that are Restricted or Under Review and may only solicit securities under Extended Review in accordance with firm policies.

direct or consequential damages or losses arising from any use of

56 Global Rates, FX & EM 2017 Year Ahead | 16 November 2016

BankofAmerica <2”
Merrill Lynch

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014786
