KR L
PI L

AC EL
CA TA CHAPTER II Cannabis Science 101

tors are located primarily in peripheral organs associated with the immune system, with the greatest
concentration in the spleen, and are responsible for managing inflammation and autoimmune func-
tion. Many tissues contain both CB1 and CB2 receptors, with each receptor type linked to a different
physiological function.

Human Endocannabinoids

Endocannabinoids are the cannabinoids created naturally by the human body for delivery to CB1 and
CB2 receptors. In contrast with cannabinoids introduced through cannabis consumption, endocan-
nabinoids are broken down quickly by the body and cause effects with shorter durations. One well-
studied endocannabinoid is anandamide (AEA). AEA is associated with the maintenance of mood,
and AEA deficiency is understood to be anxiogenic (anxiety-inducing). Maintaining appropriate AEA
levels within the human body is believed to reduce pain and inflammation, counter the proliferation
of cancer cells, relieve anxiety and promote adult neurogenesis (a process whereby nerve cells are gener-
ated from neural stem cells). Like THC, AEA has a small molecular structure that binds to CB1 recep-
tors. AEA is currently being studied for its effects on angiogenesis (the process of developing new blood
vessels), anxiety, cancer and memory consolidation. AEA is also present outside the human body; for
example, it is a natural component of chocolate.

Endocannabinoid Systems in Animals

Nonhuman mammals, including dogs, cats and horses, have been shown to have endocannabinoid
systems that are similar to their human counterparts: these systems employ CB1 and CB2 receptors
and function through the natural production of endocannabinoids. This implies that the endocanna-
binoid system is not a recent evolutionary development, but rather an ancient physiological feature of
mammals in general. The cannabinoids found in cannabis, particularly CBD, have been shown to have
a range of therapeutic applications for certain animals, including antibacterial and anti-inflammatory
properties, appetite and bone-growth stimulation, and pain relief. The following chart depicts the
canine endocannabinoid system and CB1 and CB2 receptors.

Canine Endocannabinoid System

) cat
B ce

_ CB1 and CB2

© 2017 Ackrell Capital, LLC | Member FINRA/SIPC 19

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024655
