Deputy Chief (FCPA Unit)
Fraud Section, Criminal Division
Bond Building
1400 New York Ave, N.W.
Washington, DC 20005

Telephone: (202) 514-7023
Facsimile: (202) 514-7021
Email: FCPA.Fraud@usdoj.gov

In 1998, the FCPA was amended to conform to
the requirements of the Anti-Bribery Convention. These
amendments expanded the FCPA’s scope to: (1) include
payments made to secure “any improper advantage”; (2)
reach certain foreign persons who commit an act in fur-
therance of a foreign bribe while in the United States; (3)
cover public international organizations in the definition
of “foreign official”; (4) add an alternative basis for juris-
diction based on nationality; and (5) apply criminal pen-
alties to foreign nationals employed by or acting as agents
of US. companies.”° The Anti-Bribery Convention came
into force on February 15, 1999, with the United States

as a founding party.

National Landscape: Interagency
Efforts

DOJ and SEC share enforcement authority for the
FCPA’ anti-bribery and accounting provisions.” They also
work with many other federal agencies and law enforce-
ment partners to investigate and prosecute FCPA viola-
tions, reduce bribery demands through good governance
programs and other measures, and promote a fair playing

field for U.S. companies doing business abroad.

Department of Justice
DOJ has criminal FCPA enforcement authority

over “issuers” (ie., public companies) and their officers,

Introduction

directors, employees, agents, or stockholders acting on the
issuer’s behalf. DOJ also has both criminal and civil enforce-
ment responsibility for the FCPA’s anti-bribery provisions
over “domestic concerns’—which include (a) US. citizens,
nationals, and residents and (b) U.S. businesses and their
officers, directors, employees, agents, or stockholders act-
ing on the domestic concern’s behalf—and certain foreign
persons and businesses that act in furtherance of an FCPA
violation while in the territory of the United States. Within
DOJ, the Fraud Section of the Criminal Division has pri-
mary responsibility for all FCPA matters.” FCPA matters
are handled primarily by the FCPA Unit within the Fraud
Section, regularly working jointly with US. Attorneys’
Offices around the country.

DOJ maintains a website dedicated to the FCPA and
its enforcement at http://www justice.gov/criminal/fraud/
fcpa/. The website provides translations of the FCPA in
numerous languages, relevant legislative history, and selected
documents from FCPA-related prosecutions and resolutions
since 1977, including charging documents, plea agreements,
deferred prosecution agreements, non-prosecution agree-
ments, press releases, and other relevant pleadings and court
decisions. The website also provides copies of opinions issued
in response to requests by companies and individuals under
DOJ’s FCPA opinion procedure. The procedures for submit-
ting a request for an opinion can be found at http://www.
justice.gov/criminal/fraud/fepa/docs/frgncrpt.pdf and are
discussed further in Chapter 9. Individuals and companies
wishing to disclose information about potential FCPA viola-
tions are encouraged to contact the FCPA Unit at the tele-

phone number or email address above.

Securities and Exchange Commission
SEC is responsible for civil enforcement of the FCPA

over issuers and their officers, directors, employees, agents,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022506

