OnrAnD oO B® WDNR

DADO HB WNH EH

A. He had had significant -- as you know, he
also had significant political connections and
everyone who is not living under a rock knows I was
doing everything | could to garner significant
political power.

Q. J] think many people miss your parties.

But, with respect to Mr. Jenne and his
politica] connections, were you hiring him to utilize
him with respect to any of the police department
investigations? You had stated earlier you had
dealings with police departments. | don't want --
again, | don't want to put words in your mouth. You
said you had dealings going on with various police
agencies?

A. I had -- ] mean, we had a criminal defense
section in the Jaw firm, so we had legitimate dealings
with law enforcement. But ] also had significant
illegitimate things with law enforcement that had
nothing to do with Ken Jenne.

Q. And how about with respect to former FBI
agents you were hiring?

A. They were all people that were operating in
a legitimate fashion within the law firm.

Q. In what role was that?

A. The investigative roles and the alcoho]

beverage roles and anything else Ken or other staff
could think of to have them do.

Q. Let's talk about the investigative roles for
a minute.

What kind of investigations were these teams
running?

A. I] donot know. You have to speak to lawyers
that were actually utilizing them. ] put it out there
and Ken put it out there, that they were available to
lawyers in the firm for use like in-house
investigators. And what people did with them
ultimately was up to them.

Q. Were they on salary or were their costs and
fees associated with utilizing them within a specific
practice group?

A. They were all on salary with me. The
ultimate goal was to have it as a separate entity that
could bill the Jaw firm and have the clients at least
defray some of the cost. ] don't recall whether or
not we ever got to that level or not.

Q. With all that in-house police action, why
did you have police security surrounding you all] the
time?

A. J guess the best answer was I was paranoid,
but 1 mean -- that's the simple answer to it. You

Page 355

st US RRR YP NEI ESSA ART TE TINE EI pe fete ppm a ig eet rn Seppe eet

ettae aetna St HS AS RE a ep ie SRT TN SD RN SR SUE Ra NNR AT
t po 4 }

Otm®WNH COwWoO WAI A USF WHR DWM WAI DO B® WMH PH

NNNNMONNFEPEPP RPE Pe EE

know, having -- there were mixed reasons. For
example, ] -- are you talking about my Fort Lauderdale
police detail?

Q. Yes. You had it at the office and at your
home, correct?

A. Yeah. There's a myriad of facts that
motivated me to do that. One was that ] really wanted
the security for the office. Two was, I was paranoid
and this is in no particular order. Three was the
Melissa Lewis murder that shook the entire law firm
and shook me terribly. 1 didn't want that to ever
have to happen again. And four was, I wanted -- the
more law enforcement you have around, the
more legitimacy it adds to you and your appearance to
the community. So there were a multitude of reasons.

] mean, I hired certain Jaw enforcement to
work for me that were just friends of mine that
were -- that needed additional money, so 1 wanted to
make sure that they had money, both guys that did the
illegal stuff for me and guys that didn't do anything
illegal for me.

Q. Let's go back to the Epstein case and when
you decided to utilize it -- to use for the investors
for your Ponzi scheme.

Do you recall approximately when it was that
Page 36

ne ee ee

t Spe pt

NoF WNHrP OW Dn DO & WW NDY FP

bt
~~

these investors were coming that you decided to use
the files?

A. My best recollection it was_in 2009,
sometimes after April of 2009, but ] don't have a
specific recollection beyond that.

Q. What makes you think it was after April of
2009?

A. Because, to the best of my recollection, the
Clockwork Group came in towards the middle of 2009.
When I say Clockwork, that's an umbrella term that ]
use to mean the Von Allmen, AJ Discala, and other
investors that came in through that feeder fund.

Q. So that was around April 2009?

A. No, it was after, to the best of my
recollection. ] mean, you can tell because all you
have to do is look and see when the first, very first
Clockwork investment is. Actually, you can pinpoint

it even closer. Look for the very first settlement
deal that we did that was related to the Epstein case,
within 60 days prior to that would have been when ]
was meeting with those due diligence people, 30 to
60 days before that,

Q. So when you decided to use that case, take
me through exactly what you did to familiarize

yourself with that case.
Page 37

10 (Pages 34 to 37)

FRIEDMAN, LOMBARDI & OLSON

305-371-6677
5ed93085-0554-447f-bcdd-ca2d8fe941 df

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017499
