2. Schedule 30-minute interviews for Carol, Marc/Julie, and Rob. Use www.myevents.com
(username: notreal, password: donttryit) to book them in my calendar for next week any time between
9-9 ET.

3. Find the name, e-mail, and phone (phone is least important) of workers in the U.S. who have
negotiated remote work agreements (telecommuting) despite resistant bosses. Those who have
traveled outside the U.S. are ideal. Other keywords could include “teleworking” and
“telecommuting.” The important factor is that they negotiated with difficult bosses. Please send me
links to their profiles or write a paragraph describing why they fit the profile above.

Look forward to seeing what you can do. Please e-mail if you don’t understand or have questions.
Best,
Tim

The truth is—I was at fault. This is not a good debut demand, and I made fatal mistakes even before
composing it. If you are an effective person but unaccustomed to issuing commands, assume that most
problems at the outset are your fault. It is tempting to immediately point the finger at someone else and
huff and puff, but most beginner bosses repeat the same mistakes I made.

1. I accepted the first person the firm provided and made no special requests at the outset.

Request someone who has “excellent” English and indicate that phone calls will be required (even if not).
Be fast to request a replacement if there are repeated communication issues.

2. I gave imprecise directions.

I asked him to schedule interviews but didn’t indicate that it was for an article. He assumed, based on
work with previous clients, that I wanted to hire someone and he misspent time compiling spreadsheets
and combing online job sites for additional information I didn’t need.

Sentences should have one possible interpretation and be suitable for a 2nd-grade reading level. This
goes for native speakers as well and will make requests clearer. Ten-dollar words disguise imprecision.

Note that I asked him to respond if he didn’t understand or had questions. This is the wrong approach.
Ask foreign VAs to rephrase tasks to confirm understanding before getting started.

3. I gave him a license to waste time.

This brings us again to damage control. Request a status update after a few hours of work on a task to
ensure that the task is both understood and achievable. Some tasks are, after initial attempts, impossible.

4.1 set the deadline a week in advance.

Use Parkinson’s Law and assign tasks that are to be completed within no more than 72 hours. I have had
the best luck with 48 and 24 hours. This is another compelling reason to use a small group (three or
more) rather than a single individual who can become overtaxed with last-minute requests from multiple
clients. Using short deadlines does not mean avoiding larger tasks (e.g., business plan), but rather
breaking them into smaller milestones that can be completed in shorter time frames (outline, competitive
research summaries, chapters, etc.).

5.I gave him too many tasks and didn’t set an order of importance.

I advise sending one task at a time whenever possible and no more than two. If you want to cause your
computer to hang or crash, open 20 windows and applications at the same time. If you want to do the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013884
