The evolutionarily older systems also
play a role in human information
processing and behavior, albeit in a more
rigid and stereotyped fashion. The
intricately interconnected neocortical
regions of the frontal lobes are involved
in self control, which permits the
modulation of these older systems and
the overriding of organismal hedonistic
impulses for the benefit of others (/5).

Evidence across human history
provides overwhelming support for the
supposition that humans are
fundamentally social creatures (/3).
Even in contemporary times in which
autonomy is revered, the average person
has been estimated to spend nearly 80%
of waking hours in the company of
others, most of which is spent in small
talk with known individuals (/6). These
estimates have been supported in more
detailed assessment using the day-
reconstruction method to determine how
people spend their time and how they
experienced events in their lives on a
daily basis (17). The results of these
daily assessments indicate people spend
only 3.4 hrs alone, or approximately
20% of their waking hours. The time
spent with friends, relatives, spouse,
children, clients, and coworkers is rated
on average as more inherently rewarding
than the time spent alone (/7).

Respondents indicate that their
most enjoyable activities are intimate
relations and socializing — activities that
promote bonding and high quality
relationships, whereas their least
enjoyable activities are commuting and
working. These results are consistent
with survey data. When asked “what is
necessary for happiness?” the majority
of respondents rate “relationships with
family and friends” as most important
(J8), although we certainly do not
always act like this is most important. It

Page |23

is surprisingly easy to overlook the
evident.

Noticing the Unusual, Overlooking the
Obvious

On January 15, 2009, US
Airways Flight 1549 departed from New
York’s LaGuardia Airport for Charlotte,
North Carolina when it struck a flock of
geese during takeoff. Both engines were
disabled, and the heavy aircraft quickly
lost the power it needed to stay aloft, but
Capt. Chesley Sullenberger somehow
managed a controlled descent into the
Hudson River. The media dubbed the
ditching of the plane and the survival of
all 155 passengers and crew the miracle
on the Hudson, and Sullenberger was
duly heralded as a hero. The ability to
control the descent of an 84-ton plane
without engine thrust is not something
with which humans are naturally
endowed. Sullenberger was not a
novice, of course. He is a U.S. Air
Force Academy graduate who flew F-4
fighter planes while in the Air Force, has
40 years of flight experience, and holds a
commercial glider license and glider
instructor rating. As remarkable as was
his achievement relative to what one
might normally expect in this situation,
however, Sullenberger’s efforts were not
sufficient for the miracle on the Hudson
to be achieved.

When Flight 1549 came to a stop
in the frigid Hudson River, the
passengers and crew scrambled to the
wings and inflatable slides of their
slowly sinking aircraft. Local
commercial vessels from the New York
Waterway and Circle Line fleets
responded almost immediately, with the
first of the vessels reaching the plane
within four minutes. The crews of the
various vessels worked together to
rescue the passengers and crew of Flight

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021269
