A. Did Wayne Black work for Ron Cacciatore?

Q. Are you asking me --

A. I'm asking anyone in the room who wants to
talk to me.

Q. |] Jove to talk to you, but ] don't know the
answer to that question. He might have. Brad might
be able to tell you.

MR. EDWARDS: No.

THE WITNESS: When you said Wayne Black's
name again and that J hired him to do something, ]
seem to think that he may have been associated in
some way with Mr. Cacciatore, but I'm not sure one
way or the other. I don’t remember whether or not ]
met Mr. Black, it's possible | did, it's also
possible ] did not. And] don't have an independent
recollection of retaining him to do anything or
whether | was part and parcel of the decision if we

{Short recess taken.]

FURTHER DIRECT EXAMINATION
BY MR. GOLDBERGER:

Q. Allright. Mr. Rothstein, Jack Goldberger,
I'm going to ask you some questions now. You
testified that you knew Jeffrey Epstein was a
billionaire. You did testify to that today, correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. Tell me how you knew that. How did
you know that Mr. Epstein was a billionaire?

A. Russ Adler told me. ] looked him up on the
internet.

Q. What did you look on the internet about
Mr. Epstein?

A. 1] don't recall, but ] remember looking up an
seeing that he was very wealthy, that he was a
billionaire.

ee a ee
br +I + Me
NUOUPWNHPRP DU ADAATIA OB WN ?EH

~)

4
cO

did, in fact, retain him, whether ] was part and
parcel of the decision to retain him.
BY MS. HADDAD:
Q. Traveling out of state for depositions for

the particular cases, did you have to approve that?

=A. Jt would depend upon who the lawyers were,
the significance of the expense. It would have been
case by case. |] certainly would not have been

approving or disapproving Mr. Nurik's travel,
Mr: Rosenfeldt's travel, Mr. Boden’s travel,
Mr. Lippman's travel. That was their own thing.

If a younger lawyer like a Shawn Birken came
to-me and said he need to travel out of state for
something, if it was just for a deposition, 1 wouldn't ©
have gotten involved in that unless he was telling my
CFO, Ms. Stay, that he wanted to fly first class and
stay in the Ritz Carlton, then ] would have gotten
involved. But other than that, no. The firm was too
big for me to get involved on a daily basis with all
that stuff.

Q. If Brad had to go out of state to take a
deposition, you wouldn't be the person to approve or
disapprove that?

A. Russ Adler would have handled that. And if
there was an issue, Russ would have come to me. And J
don't know what the relationship was specifically
between Brad and Russ, but it's certainly possible
that Brad just was going to go do what he needed to do
to properly handle the case and ] would have trusted
him to do that.

MS. HADDAD: Can we just take a second. We
are going to take a minute, okay?

THE WITNESS: Sure.

Page 91

see eee agn gg egret yan ten tps nba eae tm repens eo
i ran ray 4

So he ps

ee pt

bs 4
OP WHE OUMWU DAIHDUEUFWNPFP DMO DAHA SFWNE

ps epusrene seme vere acenertmmrne cetera eta en zt TGS TU TENTS EEC EASE SEES PME PER SPER I
MM NM NM NM NH

Q. Okay. So as far as learning that
Mr. Epstein was a billionaire, you learned via two
ways, one was from Russ Adler, correct? Is that
correct?

A. Yes, sir.

Q. And the other was through looking up
Mr. Epstein on the internet, correct?

A. Yes. -

Page 92

Ee eS ESHER LANTUS AEE ASS IS a ee ee HRA

Q. Okay. And you don't know what you reviewed
on the internet in an effort to determine that
Mr. Epstein was a billionaire; is that correct?

A. I do not recall.

Q. Do you know when you did that?

A. 1 do not.

Q. Was it prior to your needing to use the
Epstein case to further your Ponzi scheme?

A. Yes.

Q. Okay. So prior to -- ] think you indicated
that you needed an influx of money at some point and
that's when you decided to use the Epstein case in
furtherance of the Ponzi scheme; is that correct?

A. Yes.

Q. So prior to that time though, prior to
determining that you needed to use the Epstein case
for the Ponzi scheme, you Jooked up Mr. Epstein and
you spoke to Mr. Adler about his work; is that
correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Why did you do that, Mr. Rothstein, if you
weren't using the Epstein case at that point in your
Ponzi scheme?

A. Because it was a legitimate case in the
legitimate portion of RRA that ] had reason to believe
Page 93

24 (Pages 90 to 93)

FRIEDMAN, LOMBARD] & OLSON
305-371-6677

5ed93085-0554-447f-bcdd-ca2d8fe941df

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017513
