view, the market’s expectation for looser monetary policy
together with recent comments by President Trump
implying a desire for a weaker greenback have been
tailwinds. In addition to these drivers, we view gold as an
appealing diversifier in light of elevated geopolitical risks.
However, a comprehensive trade deal between the U.S.
and China would likely constitute a more significant

headwind for the yellow metal.

Find out more in this edition of Capital Market Outlook,

and feel free to contact us with any questions you have

about our market views.

Sincerely,
Paul

This material was prepared by the Chief Investment Office (CIO) and is not a publication of BofA Merrill
Lynch Global Research. The views expressed are those of the CIO only and are subject to change. This
information should not be construed as investment advice. It is presented for information purposes only
and is not intended to be either a specific offer by any Merrill or Bank of America entity to sell or
provide, or a specific invitation for a consumer to apply for, any particular retail financial product or
service that may be available.

Global Wealth & Investment Management (GWIM) is a division of Bank of America Corporation. The
Chief Investment Office, which provides investment strategies, due diligence, portfolio construction
guidance and wealth management solutions for GWIM clients, is part of the Investment Solutions Group
(ISG) of GWIM.

Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal. Past performance is no guarantee of
future results.

All recommendations must be considered in the context of an individual investor’s goals, time horizon,

liquidity needs and risk tolerance. Not all recommendations will be suitable for all investors.

The risk that exchange rate fluctuations will reduce the value of returns. This arises when investments
denominated in foreign currencies are purchased.

Investments have varying degrees of risk. Some of the risks involved with equity securities include the
possibility that the value of the stocks may fluctuate in response to events specific to the companies or
markets, as well as economic, political or social events in the U.S. or abroad. Investments in foreign
securities involve special risks, including foreign currency risk and the possibility of substantial volatility

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016802
