11.9. Employees

As of December 31, 2005, KLC OpCo employed approximately 40,000 non-unionized personnel. Of the
total amount, 39,639 are employed at the field level (including teachers and center staff, center directors,
facilities and field and regional staff) and 592 are employed at the corporate level. Given the seasonality
of the child care business and the regulated teacher-student ratio that varies by age with each state,
approximately 16.5% of the total field personnel are employed on a part-time basis. Teachers and
teaching assistants, which account for 93% of the total employee pool, are paid on an hourly basis. Most
of KLC OpCo's remaining employees, including District Managers as well as most corporate staff, are
salaried. KLC believes that its relations with its employees are good.

KLC OpCo’s management believes that its below-industry average turnover rates are a result of its hiring
practices and closer involvement in center operations, a focus on treating teachers as educators and not
just employees, and comprehensive training programs that are designed to ensure that teachers are
successful. KLC OpCo believes that it has the opportunity to reduce employee turnover further through
improved recruiting, training and management.

The following table presents a breakdown of employees as of December 31, 2005:

KLC Employee Breakdown

Employee Type Number
Teachers and Center Staff 37,440
Center Directors 1,874
Corporate 592
Facilities 218
Field / Regional Staff 107
Total 40,231

11.10. Accreditation

KLC OpCo pursues accreditation of its centers by accrediting bodies, primarily the National Association for
the Education of Young Children (referred to herein as NAEYC), the nation's leading child care
accreditation body. NAEYC accreditation criteria cover a wide range of quantitative and qualitative factors,
including, among others, faculty qualifications and development, staffing ratios, health and safety and
physical environment. NAEYC criteria generally are more stringent than state regulatory requirements. As
of December 31, 2005, KLC OpCo had 831 or approximately 43% of its total ECE centers that were
accredited by NAEYC. Of the approximately 117,000 licensed centers in the U.S., approximately 10%
are accredited by NAEYC.

Management believes that substantially all of its centers’ operations and policies adhere to or are
substantially compliant with NAEYC accreditation requirements. Since the accreditation process is
expensive, KLC OpCo intends to seek accreditation only where it believes accreditation will provide
meaningful local marketing benefits or competitive advantages.

11.11. Licensing and Government Regulation
Each early childhood care and education center and most school programs must be licensed under
applicable state or local licensing laws. Responsibility for licensing and compliance with government

regulations is at the regional and local level. Licenses are held at the center level or by the school
program and are typically good for a minimum of one year. Generally, the center or school program will

89

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024522
