Eye on the Market | October 22, 2012 J.P Morgan

The most important energy developments of 2012: how countries are planning for Independence Day

IRS Circular 230 Disclosure: JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its affiliates do not provide tax advice. Accordingly, any discussion of U.S. tax matters contained herein (including
any attachments) is not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, in connection with the promotion, marketing or recommendation by anyone unaffiliated with
JPMorgan Chase & Co. of any of the matters addressed herein or for the purpose of avoiding U.S. tax-related penalties. Note that J.P. Morgan is not a licensed insurance
provider.

The material contained herein is intended as a general market commentary. Opinions expressed herein are those of Michael Cembalest and may differ from those of other J.P.
Morgan employees and affiliates. This information in no way constitutes J.P. Morgan research and should not be treated as such. Further, the views expressed herein may differ
from that contained in J.P. Morgan research reports. The above summary/prices/quotes/statistics have been obtained from sources deemed to be reliable, but we do not
guarantee their accuracy or completeness, any yield referenced is indicative and subject to change. Past performance is not a guarantee of future results. References to the
performance or character of our portfolios generally refer to our Balanced Model Portfolios constructed by J.P. Morgan. It is a proxy for client performance and may not
represent actual transactions or investments in client accounts. The model portfolio can be implemented across brokerage or managed accounts depending on the unique
objectives of each client and is serviced through distinct legal entities licensed for specific activities. Bank, trust and investment management services are provided by JP
Morgan Chase Bank, N.A, and its affiliates. Securities are offered through J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (JPMS), Member NYSE, FINRA and SIPC, and its affiliates globally as
local legislation permits. Securities products purchased or sold through JPMS are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC); are not deposits or
other obligations of its bank or thrift affiliates and are not guaranteed by its bank or thrift affiliates; and are subject to investment risks, including possible loss of the principal
invested. Not all investment ideas referenced are suitable for all investors. Speak with your J.P. Morgan Representative concerning your personal situation. This material is not
intended as an offer or solicitation for the purchase or sale of any financial instrument. Private Investments may engage in leveraging and other speculative practices that may
increase the risk of investment loss, can be highly illiquid, are not required to provide periodic pricing or valuations to investors and may involve complex tax structures and
delays in distributing important tax information. Typically such investment ideas can only be offered to suitable investors through a confidential offering memorandum which
fully describes all terms, conditions, and risks. This material is distributed with the understanding that JP. Morgan is not rendering accounting, legal or tax advice. You should
consult with your independent advisors concerning such matters.

In the United Kingdom, this material is approved by J.P. Morgan International Bank Limited (JPMIB) with the registered office located at 25 Bank Street, Canary Wharf,
London E14 5JP, registered in England No. 03838766 and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority. In addition, this material may be distributed by:
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (JPMCB) Paris branch, which is regulated by the French banking authorities Autorité de Contr6le Prudentiel and Autorité des Marchés
Financiers; J.P. Morgan (Suisse) SA, regulated by the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority; JPMCB Bahrain branch, licensed as a conventional wholesale bank by
the Central Bank of Bahrain (for professional clients only); JPMCB Dubai branch, regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority.

In Hong Kong, this material is distributed by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (JPMCB) Hong Kong branch except to recipients having an account at JPMCB Singapore branch
and where this material relates to a Collective Investment Scheme (other than private funds such as private equity and hedge funds) in which case it is distributed by J.P.
Morgan Securities (Asia Pacific) Limited (JPMSAPL). Both JPMCB Hong Kong branch and JPMSAPL are regulated by the Hong Kong Monetary Authority.

In Singapore, this material is distributed by JPMCB Singapore branch except to recipients having an account at JPMCB Singapore branch and where this material relates to a
Collective Investment Scheme (other than private funds such as a private equity and hedge funds) in which case it is distributed by J.P. Morgan (S.E_A.) Limited (JPMSEAL).
Both JPMCB Singapore branch and JPMSEAL are regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.

With respect to countries in Latin America, the distribution of this material may be restricted in certain jurisdictions. Receipt of this material does not constitute an offer or
solicitation to any person in any jurisdiction in which such offer or solicitation is not authorized or to any person to whom it would be unlawful to make such offer or
solicitation. The Fund may not be publicly offered in any Latin American country, without previous registration of such fund's securities in compliance with the laws of the
corresponding jurisdiction.

Each recipient of this presentation, and each agent thereof, may disclose to any person, without limitation, the US income and franchise tax treatment and tax structure of the
transactions described herein and may disclose all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) provided to each recipient insofar as the materials relate to a
US income or franchise tax strategy provided to such recipient by JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries. Should you have any questions regarding the information
contained in this material or about J.P. Morgan products and services, please contact your J.P. Morgan private banking representative. Additional information is available
upon request. “J.P. Morgan” is the marketing name for JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries and affiliates worldwide. This material may not be reproduced or
circulated without J.P. Morgan’s authority. © 2012 JPMorgan Chase & Co. All rights reserved.

8

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024201
