4.2.12
WC: 191694

Scalia’s anachronistic views are appointed to the court.”

This is not to suggest that plainly innocent people are being routinely executed in the United
States. There are other checks and balances, such as gubernatorial commutation. (Though in
some states they are rarely, if ever, granted.) Moreover, the courts, even the Supreme Court,
sometimes find other ways to free the obviously innocent in most cases.

The real problem is how to prove one’s innocence when the courts deny possibly innocent
defendants the tools necessary to prove the certainty of their innocence. The Jeffrey MacDonald
case discussed previously, is a prime example of this problem.” The courts have repeatedly shut
the door on his serious claims that he can establish his innocence if he were to be given an
opportunity to subpoena evidence and witnesses. In his case several crucial witnesses have died.
These include Helena Stoeckley and her boyfriend, who may have been the actual killers, and Jim
Britt, the Deputy Marshall who would have testified that the prosecutor improperly pressured
Stoeckley to “forget” what she had seen—that is, to lie about her memory.

™ Tn 2009, I challenged Justice Scalia, who has written that he would have to leave the Supreme Court if his

constitutional views conflicted with his obligation to the Catholic Church, to debate this issue:

I hereby challenge Justice Scalia to a debate on whether Catholic doctrine permits the execution of a
factually innocent person who has been tried, without constitutional flaw, but whose innocence is clearly
established by new and indisputable evidence. Justice Scalia is always willing to debate issues involving
religious teachings. He has done so, for example, with the great Rabbi Adin Steinsaltz, and with others as
well. He also has debated me at the Harvard Law School. Although I am neither a rabbi nor a priest, I am
confident that I am right and he is wrong under Catholic Doctrine. Perhaps it takes chutzpah to challenge
a practicing Catholic on the teachings of his own faith, but that is a quality we share.

I invite him to participate in the debate at Harvard Law School, at Georgetown Law School, or anywhere
else of his choosing. The stakes are high, because if he loses—if it is clear that his constitutional views
permitting the execution of factually innocent defendants are inconsistent with the teachings of the
Catholic Church—then, pursuant to his own published writings, he would have no choice but to conform
his constitutional views to the teachings of the Catholic Church or to resign from the Supreme Court.

Scalia did not take up my challenge.
® This is what the Court of Appeals had said in the Jeffrey MacDonald case:

[W]e acknowledge that MacDonald has a daunting burden ahead in seeking to establish that he is eligible
for habeas corpus relief solely because of his actual innocence. The Supreme Court has only assume[d],
for the sake of argument . . ., that in a capital case a truly persuasive demonstration of ‘actual innocence'
made after trial would render the execution of a defendant unconstitutional. Herrera v. Collins, 506 U.S.
390, 417, 113 S. Ct. 853, 122 L. Ed. 2d 203 (1993). The Court has yet to come across any prisoner who
could make the extraordinarily high threshold showing for such an assumed right. /d.; see Dist.
Attorney's Office v. Osborne, 129 S. Ct. 2308, 2321, 174 L. Ed. 2d 38 (2009) (Whether [a federal
constitutional right to be released upon proof of ‘actual innocence'] exists is an open question. We have
struggled with it over the years, in some cases assuming, arguendo, that it exists while also noting the
difficult questions such a right would pose and the high standard any claimant would have to meet.).

228

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017315
