282 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

on-camera star of a twenty-hour-long reality show, edited first into
a video and then a full-length documentary, transformed him in the
public’s mind into a hero.

It would be a mistake to assume that the central role he gave
himself was simply an exercise in narcissism. After the video was
released, he was no longer a near nonentity servicing a computer
system at a backwater NSA base in Hawaii. He had emerged from
the shadowy world of electronic intelligence to become one of the
most famous whistle-blowers in modern history. It was a mantle
that would allow him to also become a leading advocate of privacy
and encryption rights, as well as the leading opponent of NSA spy-
ing. While this remarkable transformation might not have been his
entire motive, it was certainly the result of the choice he made to go
public.

The Fourth Decision

© The final choice he made was to board a nonstop flight to Moscow ®
on June 23. Once the U.S. criminal complaint was unsealed on June
21, he needed to leave Hong Kong; his continued presence would
have been a complication for the Chinese president, Xi, scheduled
soon to meet President Obama. His only route out of Hong Kong
went through two adversaries of the United States: China and Rus-
sia. China, as far as is known, did not offer him sanctuary. According
to one U.S. diplomat cited by The New York Times, China might have
already obtained copies of Snowden’s NSA files and did not want the
problem of having Snowden defect to Beijing. In any case, if it had
not already acquired the files, it could assume it would receive that
intelligence data from its Russian ally in the intelligence war. What-
ever its reason, China did not use its considerable power in Hong
Kong to block Snowden’s exit.

Nor did Snowden obtain a visa to any country in Latin America or
elsewhere during his monthlong stay in Hong Kong. As in the oft-
cited Sherlock Holmes clue of the dog that did not bark, Snowden’s
lack of any visas in his passport strongly suggests that he had not
made plans to go anyplace but where he actually went: Moscow. His

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.indd 282 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019770
