activities—e-mail, phone calls, conversations, paperwork, meetings, advertising, customers, suppliers,
products, services, etc.—Wwhat would you eliminate to keep the negative effect on income to a minimum?
Used even once per month, this question alone can keep you sane and on track.

4. What are the top-three activities that I use to fill time to feel as though P’ve been productive?
These are usually used to postpone more important actions (often uncomfortable because there is a
chance of failure or rejection). Be honest with yourself, as we all do this on occasion. What are your
crutch activities?

5. Who are the 20% of people who produce 80% of your enjoyment and propel you forward, and
which 20% cause 80% of your depression, anger, and second-guessing?
Identify:

e » Positive friends versus time-consuming friends: Who is helping
versus hurting you, and how do you increase your time with the
former while decreasing or eliminating your time with the latter?

e » Who is causing me stress disproportionate to the time I spend with
them? What will happen if I simply stop interacting with these
people? Fear-setting helps here.

e+ When do I feel starved for time? What commitments, thoughts,
and people can I eliminate to fix this problem’?

Exact numbers aren’t needed to realize that we spend too much time with those who poison us with
pessimism, sloth, and low expectations of themselves and the world. It is often the case that you have to
fire certain friends or retire from particular social circles to have the life you want. This isn’t being
mean; it is being practical. Poisonous people do not deserve your time. To think otherwise is masochistic.

The best way to approach a potential break is simple: Confide in them honestly but tactfully and
explain your concerns. If they bite back, your conclusions have been confirmed. Drop them like any
other bad habit. If they promise to change, first spend at least two weeks apart to develop other positive
influences in your life and diminish psychological dependency. The next trial period should have a set
duration and consist of pass-or-fail criteria.

If this approach is too confrontational for you, just politely refuse to interact with them. Be in the
middle of something when the call comes, and have a prior commitment when the invitation to hang out
comes. Once you see the benefits of decreased time with these people, it will be easier to stop
communication altogether.

I’m not going to lie: It sucks. It hurts like pulling out a splinter. But you are the average of the five
people you associate with most, so do not underestimate the effects of your pessimistic, unambitious, or
disorganized friends. If someone isn’t making you stronger, they’re making you weaker.

Remove the splinters and you'll thank yourself for it.

6. Learn to ask, “If this is the only thing I accomplish today, will I be satisfied with my day?”
Don’t ever arrive at the office or in front of your computer without a clear list of priorities. You’ll just
read unassociated e-mail and scramble your brain for the day. Compile your to-do list for tomorrow no

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013847
