a
Q
s
BP ronibleel ate 2D yf
DQ Senctiona Ean Bee Rat Hou. reas
— ° oO s havior
a an nkey bs et ‘br go ote a
aan derstani do 5 Al Wicbscrvine
ohare erst 8Social i He gi aa q
tl rstan 6 emay'.

nd € I's ios
“Se ig mirrorc noi 189

oO iE )- % er? help
neural Understanding elgarned, ice |

Sane # chen eurons

a

Chapter 8°

8 The lead author is Steven L. Small, M.D.,
Ph.D., a Professor of Neurology and Psychology,
Associate Chair for Research in Neurology,
Member of the Committees on Neurobiology and
Computational Neuroscience, and Senior Fellow,
Computation Institute, at The University of
Chicago. He is currently Director of the Human
Neuroscience Laboratory and was founder of the
Brain Research Imaging Center. He is an elected
member of the American Neurological
Association, a fellow of the American Academy
of Neurology, and Editor-in-Chief of the
international journal Brain and Language.
Small’s research concerns the neural basis of
human language and its breakdown after injury.
He has published more than 120 scientific
articles, primarily about human language, from
the perspectives of artificial intelligence,
cognitive psychology, computational
neuroscience, human systems neuroscience, and
clinical neurology.

Human language represents a unique
product of our social species and the tremendous
evolution of the primate cerebral cortex
simultaneously supported the development of
both. Language 1s the defining feature of our
species: In his 12 century volume, Guide to the
Perplexed, Maimonides viewed it as tautological
that man is a speaking animal, 1.c., “there is no
third element besides life and speech in the
definition of man”. But how does the brain
implement this unique function in the context of
its common ontogeny with social function? The
current essay discusses the possibility that the
recently discovered “mirror neurons” of the
cerebral cortex of macaque monkeys play a
special role in the ability of humans to
understand each other with language by using a
mechanism of observation and covert emulation.
If the neurobiology of language were partly
grounded on such systems of visual observation
and imitation, this would overlap integrally with
the biology of the social brain.

x Bjactivity

Page |75

Hidden Forces in Understanding
Others:
Mirror Neurons and Neurobiological
Underpinnings

It is one thing to perceive objects
in the environment and another to
understand what is perceived. A rodent
that senses an apple definitely has a
notion that this represents something
edible. A monkey might realize that the
apple can be eaten but also can be
thrown. A human might perceive it as a
food, an object to be propelled, a
temptation that should be resisted, or
something that falls out of a tree at a
specific acceleration. For each individual
animal or person, understanding an apple
means to take the sensory perceptions of
the apple and to use previous experience
and knowledge to fit it into an overall
context. In this way, understanding a
particular apple depends on our
previously having seen, touched, and
smelled apples, eaten them, read about
them, and perhaps even been hit by a
falling or thrown apple. All of our
previous experiences come to bear every
time we encounter a new perception that
we must make sense of, and of course,
this represents virtually every moment of
our waking lives.

Our perceptions vary enormously
from seeing simple objects (e.g., apples),
taking in more complex entities (e.g.,
restaurants, neighborhoods), hearing
noises or speech, and seeing actions
(e.g., simple manual actions, sporting
events). A major question for brain
research is how we can possibly
understand all these different kinds of
input, and what brain circuits are used to
do so. We assume that such an
understanding means taking these inputs,
weighing them against our previous

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021321
