NAUTIL.US | TEXT SETS

Fusion: when two or more nuclei collide, fusing to
make a new nucleus and releasing energy. This pro-
cess usually only occurs in atoms lighter than iron.

Chemical bond: an attraction between two or more
atoms that allows them to form a substance of defi-
nite chemical composition. Breaking these bonds
requires energy.

Petroleum: a “fossil fuel” that forms when organisms
are crushed under rock and subjected to lots of pres-
sure, and lots of time. Like the organisms it’s made of,
petroleum consists largely of carbon.

READING COMPREHENSION

1. “Each of those waste molecules is a carbon atom
bome on two atomic wings of oxygen.” Write out
the chemical equation for the molecule described
here.

2. “Organic” is used in two different ways in this
piece. What are the two different definitions?

3. What does it mean for a chemical to be “highly
reactive?” Identify oxygen’s location on the peri-
odic table, the group of atoms that it belongs to,
and why they are considered “highly reactive.”

4. Which elements on the periodic table are the
leastreactive?

5. “Fossil-based carbon dioxide molecules that
are not soaked up by oceans or stranded in the
upper atmosphere are eventually captured by
plants, shorn of their oxygen wings, and woven
into botanical sugars and starches.” What is the
process described here? (Hint: it is mentioned
by name later in the piece.) Write down the equa-
tion for this reaction.

DISCUSSION QUESTIONS

1. “Chemophobia” ts the fear of chemicals. What are
some chemophobic practices or products that we
engage with? Are there good reasons to be afraid
of chemicals?

2. How does the story change the way you see your-
self? Others?

ACTIVITIES

1. Pick an element not discussed in this article.
Where else is it found? Where did it come from?

2. Draw a map or annotated illustration of all the
places carbon goes in this article. Use outside
research to complete a full picture of the carbon
cycle.

ADDITIONAL MULTIMEDIA

1. Whose air do you share?
(It’s OK To Be Smart, PBS) 3 MIN 30 SEC
A video that explains how we breathe recycled
ait—including molecules of air exhaled by Ein-
stein himself:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BybkIysAKe

2. We Are Star Stuff segment
(Carl Sagan’s Cosmos) 8 MIN
Carl Sagan explains how the elements of life
were born in stars, evolved into simple organ-
isms, then into us: imtelligent creatures, capable
of exploring the stars we came from:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iE9dEAx5 Sew

3. The Microbes We’re Made Of
(Smithsonian.com) 2 MIN 30 SEC
We’re not just made of waste. We’re made of
trillions of other organisms. This video provides
a quick exploration of the microbiome crucial
to keeping our bodies working, and what we’re
doing to kill them:
http://www.smithsonianmag.
com/videos/category/3play_1/
the-microbes-were-made-of/?no-ist

WHERE THIS FITS IN THE CURRICULUM

Chemical Reactions (HS-PS 1-2) Construct and revise
an explanation for the outcome of a simple chemical
reaction based on the outermost electron states of
atoms, trends in the periodic table, and knowledge of
chemical properties.

13

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015473
