On Friday, February 3, at breakfast at the Four Seasons hotel in Georgetown, an epicenter
of the swamp, Ivanka Trump, flustered, came down the stairs and entered the dining room,
talking loudly on her cell phone: “Things are so messed up and I don’t know how to fix

The week had been overwhelmed by continuing fallout from the immigration order—
the administration was in court and headed to a brutal ruling against it—and more
embarrassing leaks of two theoretically make-nice phone calls, one with the Mexican
president (“bad hombres”) and the other with the Australian prime minister (“my worst
call by far’). What’s more, the day before, Nordstrom had announced that it was dropping
Ivanka Trump’s clothing line.

The thirty-five-year-old was a harried figure, a businesswoman who had had to
abruptly shift control of her business. She was also quite overwhelmed by the effort of
having just moved her three children into a new house in a new city—and having to do
this largely on her own. Asked how his children were adjusting to their new school several
weeks after the move, Jared said that yes, they were indeed in school—but he could not
immediately identify where.

Still, in another sense, Ivanka was landing on her feet. Breakfast at the Four Seasons
was a natural place for her. She was among everyone who was anyone. In the restaurant
that morning: House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi; Blackstone CEO Stephen
Schwarzman; Washington fixture, lobbyist, and Clinton confidant Vernon Jordan; labor
secretary nominee Wilbur Ross; Bloomberg Media CEO Justin Smith; Washington Post
national reporter Mark Berman; and a table full of women lobbyists and fixers, including
the music industry’s longtime representative in Washington, Hillary Rosen; Elon Musk’s
D.C. adviser, Juleanna Glover; Uber’s political and policy executive, Niki Christoff; and
Time Warner’s political affairs executive, Carol Melton.

In some sense—putting aside both her father’s presence in the White House and his
tirades against draining the swamp, which might otherwise include most everyone here,
this was the type of room Ivanka had worked hard to be in. Following the route of her
father, she was crafting her name and herself into a multifaceted, multiproduct brand; she
was also transitioning from her father’s aspirational male golf and business types to
aspirational female mom and business types. She had, well before her father’s presidency
could have remotely been predicted, sold a book, Women Who Work: Rewriting the Rules
for Success, for $1 million.

In many ways, it had been an unexpected journey, requiring more discipline than you
might expect from a contented, distracted, run-of-the-mill socialite. As a twenty-one-year-
old, she appeared in a film made by her then boyfriend, Jamie Johnson, a Johnson &
Johnson heir. It’s a curious, even somewhat unsettling film, in which Johnson corrals his
set of rich-kid friends into openly sharing their dissatisfactions, general lack of ambition,
and contempt for their families. (One of his friends would engage in long litigation with

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019943
