Emerging market bonds

EMBI Global / CEMBI spread (27 June): 388bps / 430bps (last month: 410bps / 440bps)
UBS View EMBI Global / CEMBI spread target (6-month): 340bps / 350bps
e Emerging market (EM) bond spreads are currently higher than implied by fundamentals, and we think
they offer attractive returns even against a more challenging global backdrop.
¢ The probability remains significant, though, that negative headlines out of the Eurozone or a weakening
global growth outlook will put short-term pressure on EM bond prices. However, given EM sovereigns’
better average fundamentals, and EM corporates' solid profit growth outlook and low leverage ratios, we
think that periods of price weakness should offer attractive entry points.
e Although we revised our spread targets (to 340bps from 300bps for sovereigns, and to 350bps from
310bps for corporates), we continue to expect spreads to trend gradually lower over the next six months,
more than offsetting the moderate rise in US Treasury yields we expect in the quarters ahead.

A Positive scenario EMBI Global / CEMBI spread target (6-month): 290bps / 290bps

e Yield stability in Europe's core markets and higher-than-expected growth in the US would provide a
favorable backdrop for EM fixed income spreads. In such an environment, issuers of lower credit quality
would likely fare better. Average spreads could tighten to below 300bps in such an environment.

& Negative scenario EMBI Global / CEMBI spread target (6-month): 525bps / 700bps
e An environment of escalating risk aversion in Europe, deteriorating EM funding markets, weakening
global growth prospects, and lower commodity prices could impact EM credit negatively. Liquidity in
emerging market bonds could dry up and spreads could spike.

Note: Scenarios refer to global economic scenarios (see slide 7)

What we're watching Why it matters

Core market yields The direction of US Treasury and German Bund yields are important for EM fixed
income spreads, especially for USD- and EUR-denominated bonds.
Key dates: 1 August, US ISM & FOMC rate decision

The European debt crisis may lead to further periods of outflows and weaker
prices, which could offer attractive entry levels for investors.

Capital flows

Monetary policy cycles © Monetary policy easing remains a key topic for local currency bonds. We look for
central bank policy announcements in key markets such as Brazil, Indonesia,
Malaysia, Mexico, Poland, South Africa, and Turkey. Key policy rate
announcement dates: 29 June, Colombia; 4 July, Poland; 5 July,

Malaysia; 11 July, Brazil; 12 July, Indonesia; 19 July, Turkey

36 UBS

Preference: overweight

Recommendations

Tactical (6 months)

e EM corporate bonds are particularly
attractive due to favorable valuation,
solid fundamentals, and their relatively
short duration. We advise clients to focus
on investment grade bonds in the current
environment. We continue to like
selected sovereign bonds.

Please refer to our EM bond list for
specific guidance.

Strategic (1 to 2 years)

e EM bonds are attractive for longer-term
investors looking for higher yields.

e Local markets in Asia offer interesting
opportunities for longer-term investors
because of a supportive currency outlook.

Room for tightening
Spreads of EM bonds over US Treasuries (in bps)

600
500
400

300

200

100

0
Jun-09

Dec-09

Jun-10 Dec- 10 Jun-11 Dec-11

— Emerging market sovereign bonds (EMBI Global)
Emerging market corporate bonds (CEMBI Broad)

Source: JP Morgan, UBS CIO, as of 27 June 2012

Note: Past performance is not an indication of future returns.

28

For further information please contact CIO's asset class specialist Michael Bolliger, michael.bolliger@ubs.com and Kilian Reber, kilian.reber@ubs.com

Please see important disclaimer and disclosures at the end of the document.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024163
