Economists place great store in the importance of expectations and their impact on
inflation. Chart 29 suggests an adverse feedback problem has emerged, with actual

inflation an increasingly influential driver of 5y5y inflation (and economist long-term
consensus expectations).

With 10y20y inflation effectively at the ECB’s target, we favor short positions in 30y
breakevens. In the case of the OATei 2047, the “observed” breakeven drastically
understates what we would consider to be a fairer measure. The issue here is that the
linker is almost 10 years longer than its nominal 2045 comparator in modified duration
terms. On a duration basis, the linker lies in between the 2060 and 2066 nominal OATs
and, of course, the 30s50s OAT curve is very steep.

Trade: we recommended a more closely-matched breakeven trade, shorting OATei
2047s to buy OAT 2066s to give a breakeven of 163.3bp, targeting 130bp with a
stop-loss at 180bp on October 14. The breakeven has risen, against our
expectations, to 169.6bp currently and we regard this as an attractive entry level.
We will nudge our stop-loss level higher to 185bp.

The relative cheapness of the nominal 50y partly reflects the 31y maturity limit to ECB
buying. We regard the ECB eligibility premium for bonds within the ECB’s buying range
(like this linker) as material, so the trade should be a beneficiary in the event of an ECB
“taper tantrum”. An important additional feature in these turbulent times is the greater
dispersion of the nominal’s cash flows (in PV terms). This means the trade is
significantly net long convexity.

We see the risks to the trade being a strong Eurozone recovery causing a general
repricing of breakevens higher and the possibility of further heavy issuance of 50-year
bonds across the Eurozone.

EM linkers: feeling the contagion for higher breakevens

The prospect for higher yields in the US clearly affects the appetite for Emerging
Market (EM) assets including inflation-linked bonds. The discussion is about not only EM
becoming less attractive on a relative basis, but also how the higher yields in the US
affect the dollar and thus EM currencies.

Fiscal stimulus prospects in the US should continue to drive some correction across EM
assets, but at this point, there is still too much uncertainty on the actual reach of such
stimulus. Investors faced strong returns in EM this year and because of the calendar
effect, this puts pressure to square positions and reduce risk. While this correction may
last for a while, it is clearly creating more value in some assets. For now, the discussion
will be about re-sizing positions rather than valuation. Only when volatility declines and
yields stabilize in the US will we be able to resume discussion on valuation and the level
of yields across EM.

Liquidity is a key issue when looking into EM linkers, in particular across EMEA, but we
find some interesting opportunities in Asia and LatAm.. Currency weakness ends up
adding risks for higher inflation in some countries but FX pass-through varies a lot
depending on output gap. In general, we believe there is room for higher breakevens in
EM, with key highlight for Thailand and 10y in Mexico.

Attractive breakevens in Thailand and Mexico

In Asia, we believe breakevens are pricing in too much complacency on the inflation
outlook. With prospects for higher oil prices, it makes sense to position for higher
breakevens in both Thailand and Korea in our view. Breakevens appear cheaper in
Thailand as inflation is already increasing, while breakevens have clearly lagged the
movement.

In EMEA, linkers are mostly illiquid and/or expensive so there is more to do in nominals
and/or FX in our view. Yet, the currency move has triggered a widening in breakevens in
some countries like South Africa. We expect this movement to continue for now.

Bankof America
Merrill Lynch Global Rates, FX & EM 2017 Year Ahead | 16 November 2016 15

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014745
