TTERSON

-arances, he could afford it: sev-
1, which had offices in Florida,
t Rothstein’s millions actually

scheme he'd been running since

dwards joined Rothstein's firm.
; along, and Rothstein showed
potential investors. In exchange
ein said, investors would receive

‘er, which Epstein would pay in

i say that Edwards had no knowl-
scheme. (Prosecutors, and the

: as soon as he caught wind of the
But the few months he spent in

howitz the opening he needed to
usations.

ce, Dershowitz would say, as well
2oberts added Dershowitz’s name

iad abused her.

d been pulled into a billion- dollar
tched. And for Edwards and Cas- ~
‘y benefit: Dershowitz had helped 3
ntial non-prosecution agreement j
licating him directly in Epstein's ‘
ershowitz claimed, Edwards and i

p” that agreement.
| Mary pass on the part of

wn internal logic.

Fittyy Ricw

The idea that Bradley. Edwards and Paul Cassell were trying to
blackmail Leslie Wexner —blackmail him for one billion dollars,
no less—sounds highly improbable. But we do know for a fact
that Edwards had worked with Rothstein—a man who'd been
running his own billion-dollar con.

Edwards may not have known that Rothstein was taking his
files on Jeffrey Epstein and showing them to investors. But
Edwards's proximity to Rothstein didn't look good. It may not have
been as damaging as Dershowitz’s close friendship with Epstein,
but it was damaging nonetheless. It gave Dershowitz the opening
he needed to make his argument. And the genius of Dershowitz’s
argument was that it wasn’t necessarily predicated on an actual
plot to blackmail Wexner. Maybe the thing Edwards was really
after was the idea that a lawyer who helped work out Epstein’s
non-prosecution agreement was also having sex with Virginia Rob-
erts. That would give Edwards leverage in trying to crack the
agreement open. And in that case, was it so hard to imagine him
pressuring Virginia Roberts to add Dershowitz’s name to the list?

Perhaps it wasn't, in this scenario. Virginia would have still
felt reluctant to mention Dershowitz. If she was, there was the
matter of the three hundred million dollars, and then some, that
she would stand to gain. And the three hundred million or so
that goes to set up a charity for battered women? If the scenario

| Dershowitz had thrown out was true, that would have been a

genius move on Edwards's part—the sort of detail that helps the

7 Whole psychological picture fall into place. If Virginia felt guilty
 for lying about Dershowitz, she could think of the thousands of
battered women she'd end up helping.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022166
