Then, just before the New Year, Epstein forwarded me a heads-up
email that Alan Dershowtiz, one of Epstein’s long time friends—they have a
bickering brotherly relationship—and occasional legal advisors, had
received from a reporter at Politico and forwarded to Epstein. The Politico
reporter had been following Epstein-related court filings (there is a
determined contingent of Epstein reporters) and found a new one added to an
old law suit with some rather jaw-dropping claims.

Eight years after the original suit, a Florida lawyer was now seeking to
add new plaintiffs to the old case. This new filing was accompanied by
allegations connecting a catch-all of bold-faced names associated with
Epstein more than ten years ago, including Dershowtiz and Britain’s Prince
Andrew, to a “sex slave” ring—indeed, that Epstein’s purported sex slaves
had had sex with Dershowitz and the Prince at Epstein’s command.

This seemed to me to be merely a desperate, even comic-book,
filing—just a lawyer trying to revive a dead case. I responded to Epstein that
I doubted this would be seen as credible by anyone.

Epstein, who sometimes seems to have an out-of-body attitude to his
own fate and bad press, said he thought it might be “quite a show.”

Two days later, the Daily Mail, which has become the effective ground
zero in the English language for anti-privilege, and moral opprobrium (the
more salacious the better), and whose editor Paul Dacre has a long time feud
with Prince Andrew, put the story on its front page. (Epstein also has a long
relationship with the family of disgraced press baron, Robert Maxwell,
another reliable target of the British press.) Flimsy and far-fetched court
filings in the U.S. by settlement-hungry plaintiffs might be discounted by
skeptical U.S. reporters, but, the U.K. media, constrained by onerous rules
about legal proceedings in the U.K., promptly went into tabloid frenzy (even
the normally sniffy Guardian, in full anti- royal and anti- billionaire fever,
joined the tabloid show) and effectively exported the story back to the U.S.,
where Epstein’s connection to Bill Clinton, and, hence as a shadow over
Hillary, became the news.

“T told you,” said Epstein.

There is Epstein in his inner world, trying, quite ostrich like, not to
look out. Little beyond his strict realm seems palatable or even in a sense
familiar to him. He’s a foreigner out here. Not too long ago, I met him for
lunch in the West Village, the first time in more than ten years, he said, he’d
been out to lunch in a restaurant (a not particularly pleasant experience for
him and we were out in 30 minutes).

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022710
