James PaTTERSON

Prince Andrew had long since sold the home, which he and
Sarah had received as a gift after their 1986 wedding. He got into
hot water when it was revealed that the buyer, a Kazakh billion-
aire named Timur Kulibayev, had paid three million pounds
more than the home’s asking price.

For her part, Sarah Ferguson announced that she was mov-
ing into a thirteen-million-pound ski chalet in Switzerland.

It was a fitting end to the long, sometimes sordid story of the
prince’s marriage. But it was not the end of the scandals that
seemed always to be swirling around the prince.

On January 2, 2015, Virginia Roberts's allegations about her
relationship with the prince—and the photo of him with his
arm around Roberts's waist—appeared in the press. Prince
Andrew was forced to cut short a skiing holiday to confer with
his mother, the queen, and to issue a statement denying Rob-
erts’s allegations—a step that was widely seen as being without
precedent for a member of the royal family.

That same month, at the World Economic Forum in Davos,
Switzerland, the prince was again forced to “reiterate and to reaf-

firm” the repeated denials made by Buckingham Palace that he
had any sort of sexual relationship with Roberts, who had
announced in papers filed at the start of the year that Prince
Andrew has a “sexual interest in feet.”

“My focus is on my work,” Prince Andrew said at the time.

Asked by a reporter, “Will you be making a statement?” the — ‘

prince refused to answer.
A few days later, Virginia Roberts signed a sworn statement in

which she said, “I did have sexual contact with him as I have ~
described here — under oath. Given what he knows and has seen, ©

1 was hoping that he would simply voluntarily tell the truth about :

‘f

276

everything. I hope my at
under oath about the cont;
According to several r

to the prince, asking him
Reportedly, Buckingham F
“I knew he was a men

just called him ‘Andy,” Ro
news from Maxwell that I-
day, Epstein told me I was
me ‘to exceed’ everything I
whatever Prince Andrew w
Signing her name to the
under penalty of perjury th
That spring, Prince Anc

in South Florida ordered t
stricken from civil-court re
ceedings, these lurid detai
cluded. Once again, Buckin
prince’s involvement in any
taining to Roberts. But tha:
BBC program Panorama wa;
tion into the prince’s dealing

As of this writing, the in

Barry Krischer

“I have no intention of beir
Barry Krischer said in 2016

_ asked about Jeffrey Epstein.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022173
