= Selection of Awards ED,

NOBEL CHARITABLE TRUST Pa —_

*Selection, Announcement of Winners and the Award Ceremony
Award Awards will be granted to energy developments, products and services evaluated as being most ingenious,
practical and eco-friendly (Winners will be selected through visitor's votes and the Judging Committee)

NCT aims to gain worldwide recognition and establish the NCT accreditation mark as the world’s most prestigious environmental accreditation mark.
This will be the most distinctive feature of this Convention.
Awarded products will have the right to carry the NCT accreditation mark and news of the winners will be sent through NCT’s PR division to the world.

How Awards are Selected (tentative plan)

ee
Establishment of a st ; Announcement and
Judging Committee Entries 1 Screening Final Screening Award Ceremon
e Establishment of a eA f eJudges from the committee and eHeld on the last day of wAferti tati wi ill b
qualified Judging SUMINALY'S visitors will go around booths and i y ee PISSSTALenss Inners will be
Committee the entry product check products. the Convention. The the judging committee announced on the last
will be submitted ©8 finalists will be selected upon selected 8 corporations will select the winners. day at 15:00 followed

at the time the the results of votes from day 1-2. Fo ect ota by an award ceremony

*e The Committee will

consist of approximately aha
10 judged and 10 civil entry application

i bmitted
members Is SUDMmIne Visitor Votes Count Votes

® Areview committee

will work on the method eOn day 1 &2, ballots will be handed out to visitors at the entrance. Voting will end at 12:00
of selection for visitor Visitors will go around each booth, mark the product/service they on the 3 day and
votes find most outstanding and cast their votes. ballots counted.
Awards (tentative) Award Ceremony Venue
ee Lea The Award Ceremony will take place at a special

*NCT Energy Award *Kyoto Energy Award *Nobel Family Honorary Award , .
These awards will be awarded to the best achievements or most practical inventions in the energy field. stage constructed in the West Hall Atrium.
( selection will be made by the Judging Committee ) =Announcement of winners and the Award Ceremony will

ENUIRONMENT & FA01 Dev SIMSON mje, he Oallet(eompanlee), peas and ata patted
*NCT Contribution to Environmental Award *NCT Environmental Design Award *Special Ecology Award ‘vase will aaicinats ( P )P P
The “NCT Contribution to Environment Award” and the “NCT Environmental Design Award’ will be awarded to f P pale. . ig
. oe . . . . ; =Winners will be presented with a certificate of

the best achievements or most practical inventions the fields of energy efficient products, eco-friendly services F , Fol

x ; — . - merit,/medal/prize money by members of the Nobel family in
and R&D. The “Special Ecology Award” will be awarded to the product that wins the most votes of visitors . é

f . . f - accordance with the awards.

(selection will be made by the Judging Committee and visitors)

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031369
