18

the democrats — the Islamists could try to pressure the government —
through mass rallies, political mobilization, and populist rhetoric —
to abrogate the peace treaty with Israel or to qualitatively shift, if not
downgrade, bilateral relations with the United States. Such a dynamic
would inadvertently put pressure on post-revolutionary Egypt to be
more assertive in its ties with Israel and the West.

The Gushing Wound of Palestine

The Palestinian question has been at the heart of the Arab political
discourse for the last seven decades. The 1979 peace deal between
Egypt and Israel ushered in an unprecedented phase of strong
bilateral cooperation between the two former enemies, but it was also
a major cause of the unpopularity of both Sadat and Mubarak. Israel
benefited from the cold peace by neutralizing the most powerful
conventional force in the Arab world. It even coordinated closely
with Egypt on the siege of Gaza.Although the peace accords allowed
Egypt to avoid another conflict with Israel and win substantial
economic-military aid from the United States, the country’s image
has suffered a significant blow in the last three decades. Strategically,
Egypt’s withdrawal from the Arab-Israeli conflict allowed other
powers to raise their political profile and regional influence. The
resulting strategic vacuum simply shifted the regional balance of
power in favor of non-Arab and/or non-traditional powers. Iran,
Syria, and Qatar — and later Turkey — have been the biggest
beneficiaries of Egypt’s neutrality on the Palestinian issue.

Aware of the popular sentiment in favor of the Palestinian cause, the
new Egyptian leadership initiated two important policy shifts. First, it
re-opened the Rafah border, which has allowed most residents of
Gaza to escape the suffocating siege imposed by Israel. Second,
Egypt has played an active role in facilitating the unity deal between
rival factions in Palestine. The deal represents the best chance for
Palestinians to finally form a united front in future negotiations with

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030173
