92

CHAPTER ELEVEN
The Escape Artist

“T’m not self-destructive. I don’t want to self-immolate and erase myself from the pages of history. But if we don’t
take chances, we can’t win.”

--Snowden in Moscow

The next evening Snowden drove to Honolulu International Airport. He left his leased car in
the parking lot. He took with him only carry-on baggage, including a back-pack and a laptop
with a TOR sticker on it. “I took everything I had on my back,” he said. Before leaving he also
packed in his luggage the cash that would pay for his fugitive life. Along with the cash, he took
the thumb drives containing the NSA’s keys to the kingdom.

At this point, Snowden was still a free man. He was not wanted by the authorities. He had
provided his employer and the NSA with a medical excuse for his absence from work so he would
not be immediately missed. He also had a valid passport, a credit card, and ID. He had he yet
made arrangements to meet the journalists. Snowden’s destination was Hong Kong. After
crossing the International Date Line, Snowden waited three hours in the transit zone of Narita.
Here he was reportedly captured by the airports CCTV cameras sitting alone. He then boarded a
plane to Hong Kong. After the four-hour long flight from Narita, he arrived in Hong Kong early
in the morning on May 20.

He had visited Hong Kong at least once before with Lindsay Mills when he was stationed in
Japan. He had also made some arrangements. According to Albert Ho, his Hong Kong Lawyer,
Snowden stayed at a residence arranged for him in advance by a party whom Snowden knew prior
to his arrival. This “carer,” Ho said, had assisted Snowden with his logistics. For the next ten
days, Snowden did not use his credit card or leave any paper trail to his location. Wherever he
was, “his first priority,” as he told Greenwald, was to find a place safe from US countermeasures.
He brought with him a large number of electronic copies of NSA documents marked “TS/SCI/
NOFORN, which stood for Top Secret, Sensitive Compartmentalized Information and No
Foreign Distribution. According to government rules, data carrying these labels could not be
removed from a government-approved “SCI facility.” Yet Snowden, who brought them with him
into this semi-autonomous zone in China, intended to break these rules.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020244
