Wittenberg church, in the American and French revolutions, in the silent fatal
cracking of Ghandi’s India and Mandela’s South Africa.

We know that no political system that doesn’t match the power distribution of the
society it governs can endure. Feudal order could not survive the pressures of
liberty. Can democracy withstand the pressures of enmeshment, of massive
concentration of power, of artificial intelligences. Or will the slow, inefficient
reaction time of popular voting prove finally unequal to the complexity ahead of us
or too easy to manipulate? Writing of the Enlightenment, the historian Leon-Michel
Gambetta once explained that the goal of politics in the age of liberation and
questioning was, “to derive the political and social system from the idea of reason
rather than that of grace.” What to do now? In a world where we may need to derive
a political system girded by tools of Al or wired by fast-moving and emergent
networks, that can’t quite be derived from reason? What will the goal of politics be
then? When the first AI runs for President on a ticket of pure efficacy? Or perhaps
Democratic and Reblican candidates will debate who has the best AI. How will you
vote?

We need already to reevaluate the idea of citizenship. What is it for? And the state
too. To fit these roles into an age of liberation took centuries after Luther began the
reformation; we may have but decades to decide what they mean in an age of
enmsemhment. Does setting geographic and age criteria for voting still make sense?
One man one vote? Is there a better system to deal with complex issues? The
economists Daron Aceomoglu and James Robinson, in their magestirial study Why
Nations Fail marked success or collapse by these lines: Countries with “inclusive”
institutions which guarded both elites and society at large have historically fared
better than those (think of Russia or Latin America) that ran on “extractive” urges,
nations machined to secure the profits and serenity of the elites alone. But where to
fit our gated world into such an analysis, an era in which linked institutions benefit
both the gated and gatekeeper? Would you say such a system was extractive as it
sucks our data and habits and secrets into massive, opaque finance or machine
learning systems? Or inclusive because, after all, we’re enmeshed in a web of newly
found linked wealth: time, health, finance, information, security. Networks in so
many ways insist on fresh considerations of power. What sorts of network design is
likely to be most effective, most legitimate? Kant’s famous question of the 1780s -
“What is Enlightenment?” - is one we've not yet perfectly answered or resolved. The
new puzzle of “What is Enmeshment” is one we're only beginning to consider now.
It too will take lifetimes to answer, and the debate will be decied in the collision of
ideas and institutions we can’t even dream of today with the structures of power
that tower around us now.

At least we can see already that we'll need new ways to consider our future political
order, mashed through as it will be by connection, machines and hot human hopes
and fears. We'll certainly face our own turning points as our institutions collapse or
calcify or (hopefully) redesign themselves in some modern version of Britain’s
bloodless 1688 Glorious Revolution, that ineffable moment when parliamentary

204

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018436
