Such interests may involve risks in connection with such third-party involvement, including the possibility
that a third-party may be in a position to take (or block) action in a manner contrary to the Company’s
objectives or may have financial difficulties resulting in a negative impact on such interest. Acquisitions
made with third parties in joint ventures or other entities also may involve carried interests and/or other
fees payable to such third party partners or co-venturers. There can be no assurance that desirable
minority shareholder rights will be available or that such rights will provide sufficient protection of the
Company’s interests.

6.1.9 Certain of the Company's businesses may require additional capital

Certain of the Company’s businesses, especially those in development phases, may require additional
financing to satisfy their working capital requirements. The amount of the additional financing needed will
depend upon the maturity and objectives of the particular business. The Company may seek to raise any
required capital from different sources, and subsidiaries in foreign countries may raise capital locally. The
availability of capital is generally a function of capital market conditions that are beyond the control of the
Company. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to predict accurately the future
capital requirements necessary for success or that additional funds will be available from any source as
needed. An inability to timely raise capital may materially and adversely affect the Company and/or its
business.

6.1.10 KUE’s subsidiaries operate in regulated industries; failure to comply with
governmental regulation and licensing requirements could have a material
adverse effect on operations

The pre-K-12 education business is highly regulated and is often subsidized with government funding or
reimbursement programs. In addition, KUE and its subsidiaries may require the consent or approval of
applicable regulatory authorities in order to acquire or operate particular businesses, including in foreign
jurisdictions where the Company has limited or no experience with the regulatory framework. Failure to
comply with applicable laws or regulations, or failure or inability to obtain applicable approvals, could have
a material adverse effect on the operations of KUE and/or its subsidiaries.

For example, KLC's centers and school programs are subject to numerous state and local regulations and
licensing requirements. KLC has policies and procedures in place to assist in complying with such
regulations and requirements. Although these regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, government
agencies generally review, among ciher things, the fitness and adequacy of buildings and equipment, the
ratio of staff personnel to enrolled children, staff training, record keeping, children's dietary program, the
daily curriculum, and compliance with health and safety standards and transportation safety. In most
jurisdictions, these agencies conduct scheduled and unscheduled inspections of the centers and licenses
must be renewed periodically. Most jurisdictions establish requirements for background checks or other
clearance procedures for new employees of child care centers and school programs. Repeated failures
by any of KLC's centers to comply with applicable regulations may result in sanctions against that center
or program and other centers or programs in the same jurisdiction, including probation or, in more serious
cases, suspension or revocation of a center's or program's license to operate. In addition, this type of
action could attract negative publicity extending beyond that jurisdiction.

A licensing authority may determine that a particular center or program is in violation of applicable
regulations and may take action against that center or program and possibly other centers or programs in
the same jurisdiction, For more information, see The Operating Company (KLC OpCo)} — Licensing and
Government Regulation.

6.1.11 Future legislation or new regulations may place additional burdens on the
Company and have a material adverse effect on operations

Additional, different and/or more stringent regulations and licensing requirements may become applicable
in the future due to changes in laws and regulations, judicial or administrative interpretations of existing
laws and regulations, changes in the Company's business strategy or for other reasons. State authorities

48

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024481
