Date:
Time:

Case

\
7/13/06 a. BEACH POLICE smpanawnl : Page: 64
9:27255 . Incident Report ‘Program: CMS301L

No. . . . : 1-05-000368 (Continued)

_ Det. Recarey directed me to a second detached structure located on the

South East corner of the property. This area of this structure was
assigned with single letters to identify a particular part of the
room. In the office area, designated as Room B, I observed a powered

on Dell Dimension 2350, attached to an LCD flat panel monitor. The

screen displayed an open Microsoft Internet Explorer browser with URL
address of http://home.bellsouth.net/. I observed no other active
windows in the Start panel window and photographed screen. The power
cord was removed from the back of the Dell CPU and I disconnected the
cable modem to prevent remote access. At that time, the Dell CPU,
marked with Serial Number 6WTVN21, was secured and turned over the
evidence custodian for future forensic analysis via property receipt.

I also located several media related items within Room B, which were
recorded onto a property receipt and turned over the Evidence
Custodians.

I then responded to a Bedroom designated as Room F, where I observed a
white in color CPU marked Premio. The Premio CPU was in a computer
desk which held a white CRT monitor, both of which were powered on.
The CRT monitor displayed a message from Norton Antivirus software,
warning of an expired subscription. I observed no other active
windows in. the Start panel window and photographed screen. I removed
the power cable from the back of the Premio CPU and shutdown all other
media. The Premio CPU, marked with Serial Number 2000091078, was
secured and turned over the evidence custodian for future forensic
analysis via property receipt. I also located several media related
items within Room F, which were recorded onto a property receipt and
turned over the Evidence Custodians.

This concluded my participation in the search of the residence.

RRKEKEKEKEEKEREREEREEEEEERERK NARRATIVE He QQ KEKE KKEKKEKEKKEKEEE KEE KERR E
NA Reported By: RECAREY, JOSEPH 12/21/05
Entered By.: ALTOMARO, NICKIE A. 12/21/05

On December 20, 2005, I contacted ASA Daliah Weiss in an attempt to

subpoena the Epstein former houseman, Alfredo Rodriguez. Rodriguez,
who resides in Miami, had eluded the process servers previously and

was not served the investigative subpoena. A telephone message was

left as she is not available during the week of 12/19/2005. I made

contact with State Attorney Inv Theresa Wyatt and requested the same
via telephone message.

I then researched the victim's [__]cellular telephone subpoena data

which had been received from a previous subpoena request. I analyzed b6
the records which depict several calls from as The bic
telephone calls start on February 6, 2005 at 12:49 pm.; the same day

which the victim and the victim's father stated the incident occurred

at Epstein s house. The first incoming call was from iis

residence atL__—S—___]| The second incoming call from qs

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019017
