apprehensible, the Rabbis said, only by its movements. Are we back at the first
chapter of Genesis and its absolute prohibition against eating from the tree of
knowledge. Or, from the Talmud, “For him who reflects about four things - what is
above, what is below, what is before and what is behind - it would be better not to
have come into the world.”!7° We want to reflect about what goes on inside the
machines. Can we? Should we? How does Dare to know face off against these
impenetrable systems.

It is little surprise that places like Silicon Valley often leave a visitor with the feeling
of a town where work is done in rooms within rooms within rooms. To drive along
the dulled, anodyne asphalt stretch of road that runs in front of Sand Hill Road in
Menlo Park almost hurts your head: Inside the offices on revolutions are dreamed,
debated and funded. And it looks, for the most part, like a row of mildly prosperous
dental practices. The real import of the work is, on the outside at least, nearly totally
muted. The corporate structure of the most powerful tech companies are padded
with this sort of deadening fustian too. Founders control the majority of voting
stock; shareholders are more like lucky “users” than owners. Control, security and
speed in decision-making are secured from the inside, free of exploit risk or
interference. The companies are like computers. Of course the founders know where
real powers sits. But this shouldn’t distract us from the human energy breathing in
the code itself. The programs are “permeated by all the forms of contestation,
feeling, identification, intensity, contextualization and decontextualization,
signification, power relations, imaginings and embodiments that comprise any
cultural object,” the computer science historian Adrian Mackenzie has written.171

Each of the parts of a black box is a black box. The famous billionaires of our
technology age operate for the most part as their systems do. Their tight, well-
engineered clusters of machines produce fortunes from connectivity, even as they
obscure some of the deeper nature of the connections that are essential to their
success. They are themselves at times obscured, human black boxes in a sense.
“Linux is just an enabler,” the genius programmer Linus Torvalds once observed
about the code language that undergirds much of the connected world. “It’s a solid
base, but like all good, solid bases, it really is something that should be almost
entirely hidden and out of people’s minds.”!” It is a hard paradox for us. The work
of the black boxes, of connected systems or protocols such Linux is miraculous. It is
wonderful in so many ways. And the roots of it are, and seem like they have to be,
obscure. But this cuts very fast into the arteries of a healthy democracy.
“Democracy,” Arthur Schlesinger wrote in his famous post-war book The Vital
Center, “has no defense-in-depth against the neuroses of industrialism.” It’s easy to
see how the system might also have a weakened immunity to the subversive forces

170 Or from the Talmud: See Leo Strauss, Persecution and the Art of Writing,
(Glencoe, Ill.: Free Press, 1952), 21

171 The programs: Adrian Mackenzie, Cutting code: Software and sociality, (New
York: Peter Lang 2006) 5

172 “Linux”: Andy Meek, “Linux creator explains why a truly secure computing
platform will never exist” on bgr.com Sep. 25, 2015

118

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018350
