How? “Seven friends in ten days,” Facebook growth hackers repeated like a mantra
in the early years, a humming meditation that carried them from dorm room to
nearly every corned of the world??2. If you or I joined the service and found seven
friends in ten days, we would most likely stay, enjoying the benefits of the gated
world, making it that much harder (impossible really) for friend number eight to
wander somewhere else. Pretty soon, there was essentially nowhere else to go
anyhow. The network magnetism worked so well that, as a result, Facebook’s speed-
looping connection machine cut the famous “six degrees of separation” posited by
Stanley Miligram - the number of leaps between any two people on the planet - to
four.233

Network theorists who came after Arthur call these “rich get richer” systems “power
law distributed” because if you line up all the firms in a digital industry you find the
winners are exponentially - by a power of ten or one hundred - ahead of everyone
else. They slip free from the average gravitational center of a normal bell curve that
marks most traditional business. A normal distribution would shape up like a chart
of people who own cars: 20 percent driving Fords, 10 percent Nissans and Toyotas,
and so on. Or it might look like the distribution of height: Most men are between 5’7
and 5’11, but 50% are scattershotted at different heights. Network systems,
however, can breed commanding winners. It’s not like 50% of online users are on
the Internet and others are scattered across different systems. Users huddle into
single winning clusters. It’s as if 90% of the world always bought a Ford; or 90% of
people were exactly 5’ 11”. These systems run faster and better and more profitably
because they are locked-in, gated by technology standards and by common
connection. When we say that networks crave gates, this is the sort of gate we mean.
If you had to look for your friends one-by-one on Facebook, Friendster, MySpace,
and GooglePlus you'd exhaust yourself. So, one winner emerges. Data scientists
attribute the success of these winning nodes to “preferential attachment” - the idea
that if Brian Arthur is using Microsoft Word and I’m using it you are likely to do so
too. But there’s another secret: More widespread adoption makes the whole system
faster. Winner-take-all marks that network hunger for the compression of time.?34

There’s an additional feature at work in the very newest of these billion-user
clusters that’s worth our attention: It’s not merely that we’ll use them because
everyone seems to be doing so, it’s also that as more users weave themselves into
each others’ lives and the machines into too, these nodes of power get smarter.
Google Maps can predict the fastest route from your house to your office because it
can watch the movements of hundreds of millions of users, each silently pinging
their location and speed as they creep through rush hour or sprint down an empty
motorway. As more people use GPS enabled devices, the quality of this data gets

232 The network magnetism: Chamath Palihapitiya, “How we put Facebook on the
path to 1 billion users.” Udemy Growth Hacking: An Introduction lecture published
January 9, 2013 and available on YouTube.

233 Winner-take-all: van der Hofstad, p 24

234 But there’s another secret: Albert-Lazlo Barabasi “Network Science”,
Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A: (2013) 371

161

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018393
