Siegel: These are separate sets of documents that outline the Muslim Brotherhood’s goals and

plans underlying the Civilization Jihad. The former was discovered in Europe and extends globally. The 1991
Explanatory Memorandum emerged in 2008 from the Holy Land Foundation trial and describes the
Brotherhood’s work in America as a “Civilization-Jihadist Process with all the word means” and “a kind of
grand Jihad in eliminating and destroying the Western civilization from within and ‘sabotaging’ its miserable
house by their own hands and the hands of the believers so that it is eliminated and God’s religion is made
victorious over all other religions.”

Much as the communists of the Soviet Union had formulated in the 1950s a detailed long term plan to

destroy America (many of the effects of which we are seeing of late including destroying the nuclear family,
secularizing the nation, feminizing men ...) these documents identify many strategies to infiltrate while
eroding the foundations of our civilization in order to transform it into an Islamic one. The Control Factor has
many ingenious ways to convince us that this is ridiculous, that our courts and system would never allow
such a thing, that one is racist or “Islamophobic,” if not insane, for even thinking this is real. And just as with
the communists, time is plentiful. Even more so with our Islamic Enemy, a multi-decade plan is short term. It
is not critical that a seriou sly engaged Muslim lives to see the result. It is critical, more correctly a duty,
however, that he carries on his Jihad. Patrick Poole and The Center for Security Policy’s Team B Report,
Shariah: The Threat to America, are excellent sources for your readers to pursue these documents.

FP: And so what you call an “Inner Jihad” has to start. It’s our, as you say, mandatory “addiction treatment.”
Please explain.

Siegel: The “Inner Jihad” is the effort we must undertake to gain control over our Control Factors. There is a
famous Hadith in which Mohammad, returning from a successful battle, essentially says that the physical
fight was the “lesser Jihad” and it is time to then attend to the “greater Jihad €”- that internal battle against
our own internal appetites, lusts, wrong thinking and so forth. While that Hadith has been falsely utilized to
say that “Jihad” is not violent, it is useful to us as a symbol of the vicious effort we must take internally
against our own Control Factor tendencies.

As I said earlier, the Control Factor is “active” and “continuous” so we must constantly monitor and combat
it. Like “Whack-a-Mole,” just as we may think we have addressed it, another variation pops right up. I use the
terms “addict” and “enabler” because we truly need a form of rehab to break the habitual power of the
Control Factor and because our relationship with our Islamic Enemy is very much like that between a typical
addict and his enabler. And just as it is so difficult for an addict to kick his habit, so does the enabler act
essentially addicted to his behavior and find it so difficult to change. At its core, the relati onship involves the
transfer of responsibility for our Islamic Enemy’s hate and resultant actions onto us with our response framed
essentially as an effort to do what we can to try to address the Enemy’s grievance. (Your book, United in
Hate, describes this addiction to hate in detail.

The key to the Inner Jihad is to learn to transfer responsibility for our Islamic Enemy’s hate and resultant
actions back to it and take responsibility back for our own situation. We must learn all we can about the
enemy. We must unwind our inappropriate projections and introjections and rediscover who we are and are
not. We must speak up. We must support those Muslims who promote expressions of Islam that are consistent
with our principles. And we must stalk the C ontrol Factor, constantly be on guard for its intrusion. This is an
individual endeavor as each of our Control Factors uses its own methods. The book gives plenty of examples
of each maneuver discussed but it is important for each of us to discover the unique workings of his own
mind. That takes the work of the Inner Jihad.

FP: Share with our readers what you mean by the “Turnaround Moment.”

Siegel: There is a moment in typical horror films where the central characters have been pushed to their limit.
They then change and fully embrace the willingness to be as ruthless as the threat they face. No more moral
high ground; no more futile attempts to ignore or change the threat’s essence. As Lee Harris described in The
Suicide of Reason, it is the willingness o r license to be (not necessarily actually being) as ruthless that is
critical. It is a mental state that sheds all the prior counter-productive efforts at denial to finally clearly focus
on the threat faced. Part of the Inner Jihad is to reach that Turnaround Moment sooner rather than later.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024413
