196 11 Stages of Cognitive Development

Stage 1: Infantile

Inference Rules
a %
i Knowledge about New
I World _ Knowledge
| .

Inference Control Strategy |

Fig. 11.4: Uncertain Inference in the Infantile Stage

word-object associations: e.g. learning that when the word “ball” is uttered in various contexts
(“Get me the ball,” “That’s a nice ball,” etc.) it generally refers to a certain type of object.
The key point regarding these “infantile” inference problems, from the CogPrime perspective,
is that assuming one provides the inference system with an appropriate set of perceptual and
motor ConceptNodes and SchemaNodes, the chains of inference involved are short. They involve
about a dozen inferences, and this means that the search tree of possible PLN inference rules
walked by the PLN backward-chainer is relatively shallow. Sophisticated inference control is
not required: standard AI heuristics are sufficient.

In short, textbook narrow-AI reasoning methods, utilized with appropriate uncertainty-savvy
truth value formulas and coupled with appropriate representations of perceptual and motor
inputs and outputs, correspond roughly to Piaget’s infantile stage of cognition. The simplistic
approach of these narrow-AI methods may be viewed as a method of creating building blocks
for subsequent, more sophisticated heuristics.

In our theory Piaget’s preoperational phase appears as transitional between the infantile and
concrete operational phases.

11.4.2 The Concrete Stage

At this stage, the mind is able to carry out more complex chains of reasoning regarding the
world, via using inference control schemata that adapt behavior based on experience (reasoning
about a given case in a manner similar to prior cases).

In the concrete operational stage (Figure 11.5), an entity is able to carry out more complex
chains of reasoning about the world. Inference control schemata which adapt behavior based on
experience, using experientially learned heuristics (including those learned in the prior stage),
are applied to both analysis of and interaction with the sensory surround / world.

Concrete Operational stage tasks include:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013112
