Just set it and forget it!

—RON POPEIL, founder of RONCO; responsible for more than $1 billion in sales of rotisserie
chicken roasters

As to methods there may be a million and then some, but principles are few. The man who
grasps principles can successfully select his own methods. The man who tries methods,
ignoring principles, is sure to have trouble.

— RALPH WALDO EMERSON

The Renaissance Minimalist

Daeccie Price was waking up to another beautiful summer morning in his Brooklyn brownstone. First

things first: coffee. The jet lag was minor, considering he had just returned from a two-week jaunt
through the islands of Croatia. It was just one of six countries he had visited in the last 12 months. Japan
was next on the agenda.

Buzzing with a smile and his coffee mug in hand, he ambled over to his Mac to check on personal e-
mail first. There were 32 messages and all brought good news.

One of his friends and business partners, also a cofounder of Limewire, had an update: Last Bamboo,
their start-up poised to reinvent peer-to-peer technology, was rounding the final corners of development.
It could be their billion-dollar baby, but Doug was letting the engineers run wild first.

Samson Projects, one of the hottest contemporary art galleries in Boston, had compliments for Doug’s
latest work and requests for expanded involvement with new exhibits as their sound curator.

The last e-mail in his inbox was a fan letter addressed to “Demon Doc” and praise for his latest
instrumental hip-hop album, onliness Vi.01. Doug had released his album as what he termed “open
source music” —anyone could download the album for free and use sounds from any track in his or her
own compositions.

He smiled again, polished off his dark roast, and opened a window to deal with business e-mail next.
It would take much less time. In fact, less than 30 minutes for the day and 2 hours for the week.

How much things change.

Two years earlier, in June of 2004, I was in Doug’s apartment checking e-mail for what I hoped would
be the last time for a long time. I was headed to JFK Airport in New York in a matter of hours and was
preparing for an indefinite quest around the world. Doug looked on with amusement. He had similar
plans for himself and was finally extricating himself from a venture-funded Internet startup that had once
been a cover story and his passion but was now just a job. The euphoria of the dot-com era was long
dead, along with most chances for a sale or an IPO.

He bid me farewell and made a decision as the taxi pulled from the curb—enough of the complicated
stuff. It was time to return to basics.

Prosoundeffects.com, launched in January of 2005 after one week of sales testing on eBay, was
designed to do one thing: give Doug lots of cash with minimal time investment.

This brings us back to his business inbox in 2006.

There are 10 orders for sound libraries, CDs that film producers, musicians, video game designers, and
other audio professionals use to add hard-to-find sounds—whether the purr of a lemur or an exotic
instrument—to their own creations. These are Doug’s products, but he doesn’t own them, as that would

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013890
