OoOrArnork WNE

had to have Curtis Renie or Bil! actually come into my
office, set up a special icon to allow me to do that.
It was a real pain, so it was rare.

Q. Who else attended the meetings that you had
with the Clockwork group with respect to the investors
in the Epstein case?

A. There were multiple meetings with what I'l]
call the Clockwork investors at various points in
time. A variety of people came in and out of the

meetings. Some of the meetings occurred down in Bova.

Other people came up to the meetings. Some of the
meetings involved Michael Szafranski, our fake
independent verifier. Some of the meetings may have
involved bankers and the like. ] cannot tell you
specifically who was at those meetings.

Q. The specific meetings that we are talking
about with -- where you left the boxes at your office,
do you recall who else was there with you at that
meeting?

A. J only remember there being a handful of
people from the investment group and myself. | don't
recal] -- and ] remember the guys bringing the boxes
the down, but they didn't stay for the meeting. There
may have been other people there, ] don't recal] one

me

She RB

where we owed 20, $30 million in Ponzi payments out
and she needed to write a check for even $5,000, she
probably would have checked with me on that. So
substantial and whether or not she would have checked
with me depended upon the circumstance at the time.

Q. You stated earlier, and J think I'l] get
this quote right, that 2009 was a dismal year; is that
correct?

A. For the legitimate law firm business, it was
a dismal year.

Q. Soin the months immediately preceding the
dissolution of RRA, July to October of 2009, what
would you consider a substantial expense that had to
be approved?

A. It would vary literally from day-to-day.

Q. Do you have any independent recollection of
how you were doing in, say, July 2009?

A. The legitimate business was always doing
poorly in 2009, as far as ] was concerned.

Q. So would you have --

A. The Ponzi scheme had its moments of
significant wealth and significant poverty, so it
varied from time to time. It was a daily thing.
Sometimes it was hourly. It just depended upon what

OnrmwnrnrFrowwmrwntnuornesk wWwnr owmrn ars WN FH

=
:
:
g
:
a
i
:
e
:
i
:
:
=
i
a
a
;

Page 86 i

MM NM MH NM NW FT |

way or the other who it was. was coming in and what needed to go out.

Ey

Q. Ifthe expenditures were being made on a
case that were substantial, did you have to approve
them or did you have a specific practice for them?

A. The head of a practice group could basically
approve them but Irene, our CFO, would generally run
them by me before she actually cut the check. If]
wasn't around she'd run it by Stu.

Q. So as the equity partners you had the
authority to make the determination what funds could
and could not be expended?

A. As the shareholders, as the two 50 percent
shareholders, we controlled the finances.

Q. And if Irene was coming to you to tell you
what the funding was for, to get approval rather,
would she tell you specifically what the funding was
for or just tell you we need $100,000?

A. No, if it was a substantial expense --

Q. Tell me what you deem as substantial.

A. That would have been -- substantial to me
would have been based upon how much money we had in
our coffers at the time. So, if it was one of those

Q. So would you have to utilize the
illegitimate funds to fund the legitimate cases at
times?

A. Yes.

Q. And that varied daily you said?

A. Well, aj] the money was commingled together,
so we used whatever funds were in there to fund both
the legitimate and the iJlegitimate financial
requirements of the firm, the Ponzi scheme and other
legitimate and illegitimate things that were going on.

Q. Ifan outside agency or investigator was
being utilized for a case and they needed a signed
retainer agreement with your firm, would you have to
approve that?

A.. It would depend upon the significance of the
expense. | didn't necessarily get involved in every
retention of every expert in every case.

Q. Okay. So it would depend on the cost or the
nature of the case?

A. Who the lawyer was, their level of
expertise, all things of that nature.

MMMM P PRP RPP BBP PB
WNHNFrFPOW MAND UBWNHEH OW DANAUS WNHPH

periods of time where we had 20 or $30 million
floating around the law firm, Irene probably would
have just written a check without even letting me know
we were writing it. If it was one of those times

Q. Ifit was this gentleman who you have no
recollection of meeting, Mr. Black, and the attorney
was Mr. Edwards, was that something you needed to look
over?
Page 873 Page 89

stent iBT DRAPES aN eet ae ee ao esse R RP a ER GRA NERS TES EPR ERA NE NER

a
hm Mm
oof

ia eeeienamuagiet

23 (Pages 86 to 89)

FRIEDMAN, LOMBARDI & OLSON
305-371-6677

5ed93085-0554-447f-bcdd-ca2d8fe941df

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017512
