Preface xY

Today this is less true. Cognitive science, a field I also had a big
part in creating, has become more important in the academic world.
Training, and e-learning, the first new field to come about as a result
of our work at my new institute (for better or for worse, I am not too
fond of most e-learning work) have become more important to think
about within the academic context, in part because online courses are
seen as potential revenue producers.

So, while there is still no learning profession per se, there is much
interest in what learning is about. This book is meant to address the
issue of what learning really is, in or out of school, and to answer the
question: How does learning really work? The questions that follow
from the answer to that question are:

e What kinds of learning situations occur naturally?

e How can we focus education (and training and
e-learning) on those types of situations in a new
paradigm?

e What would teaching look like in this new paradigm?

e If what we know about how learning works is antithetical
to how school works, then what can we do?

Answering these questions is one goal of this book.

Another goal of this book is to think seriously about what it means
to teach. Typically, we look at teaching in precisely the way that our
system forces us to look at it. There are subjects and there are experts,
and experts talk about their subjects to students who listen to what
they have to say. This idea is not only archaic—it is wrong. In the his-
tory of humankind, teaching could never have looked this way.

Until recently, teaching always meant apprenticeship. We are set
up to be apprentices, to learn by doing with help from a mentor. We
have done this since the beginning of time. When learning became
academic in nature, when students were expected to become scholars,
all this changed—and it didn’t change for the better. Teaching started
to mean talking, and talking is a terrible way to teach. People aren’t
really that good at listening, after all. Small children don’t listen to
their parents. They may copy their parents. They can be corrected by
their parents. They may be impeded from doing something by their
parents. But listen? Not really. We listen in order to be entertained, not
in order to learn.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023745
