and came to the ending, where Sir Stephen loses interest in O and tells her to kill herself.
I can also remember being furious with the way Nine And A Half Weeks (the book, not
the movie) ends. The submissive woman has a public breakdown. She begins to cry
hysterically, and is abandoned by her master, so that strangers have to obtain help for
her. One of the cruelest stereotypes of S/M people is that we don't love each other, that
there is something about our sexual style that makes our relationships mutually
destructive and predisposes us to suicide.

This quotation came to mind during a conversation I had a few days ago: I was talking to
a gitl who really likes BDSM sex but referred to non-BDSM sex as love sex. Because,
you know, love is just not an ingredient in BDSM sex. Everyone knows that -- the same
way everyone knows that BDSM always arises from childhood abuse, or dominant
sadism is for villains, or everyone who likes BDSM is damaged and miserable and
irresponsible, or....

Not to put too fine a point on it: fuck that.

I'm not saying there's no BDSM smut out there with love in it. Anne Rice's Beauty series
ends with Beauty riding off into the sunset with her loving sadomasochistic partner
(although of course the characters deal with all kinds of uncaring brutality first). But even
nuanced BDSM erotica seems to fall into this trap more often than not -- for example,
Jacqueline Carey's Kushiel's Dart, which is so consciously written that it includes
safewords, also portrays a main character whose most compelling BDSM relationships
are with her enemies and whose love relationship is with a man who can't stand to hurt
her. (Carey took a very different tack later in the series, with other characters; I've always
wondered whether she did so as a reaction to criticism.)

It's easier to criticize than create. And all my porn critiques could come back and bite me
soon, because I plan on releasing my own BDSM smut sometime... and I'm sure that what
I produce won't even be close to perfect. Yet one thing I really want to ensure I represent
in whatever I write is love. There are plenty of BDSM fantasies that partly operate on the
absence of love -- that even demand it, perhaps because the fantasy is all about a vicious
and emotionally distant dominant, or because much of the erotic tension is derived from
how much the partners hate each other, or for lots of other reasons. And yeah, they're hot
in their own way....

But it'd be so great if those weren't the standard.

te OK ok
This can be found on the Internet at:

http://clarissethorn.com/blog/2011/02/22/ladypornday-bdsm-can-be-love-sex-too/

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018490
