The Offering

Stan Johnson Company is pleased to offer to qualified
investors, on behalf of Ownership, a unique pre-sale/
JV investment & acquisition opportunity for a 100%
fee simple interest in a brand new, to-be-built General
Services Administration (GSA) facility. The Property is
eased to the U.S. Government and is occupied by the
Citizenship and Immigrations Services (CIS) agency, and
is located on the island of St. Thomas in the U.S. Virgin
slands.

The proposed deal structure is a forward commitment

acquisition, with the purchaser funding 100% of

development costs, receiving a preferred rate of return
on their outstanding equity during development,
and subsequently purchasing the property upon
rent commencement at a pre-determined cap rate.
Ownership closed on the purchase of the underlying
and in mid-2014 and is ready to start construction
immediately. Qualified investors are encouraged to
submit bids outlining their proposed terms & structure,
to be reviewed by Ownership.

The Property will be developed on an exceptionally well
ocated site. It will be a 100% occupied, free standing,
two-story office property of approximately 12,770 square
feet on 1.89 acres. The site is located in Smith Bay on
the East side of the island of St. Thomas in the US, Virgin
slands. The GSA will be operating under a new, 10-year
base lease term.

fap)

he subject Property is mission critical to CIS as it will
ouse a consolidation of multiple CIS facilities including
urrent facilities in St. Croix and Charlotte Amalie. The
roperty will serve as the CIS center for the entire St.
homas region to welcome and educate future US
tizens. The Property is a unique opportunity for an
investor to acquire a new construction property 100%
eased to the GSA, while earning additional income
through funding of development costs.

odwavAaA Do

Investment Highlights

100% Leased to and Guaranteed by the US
General Services Administration - Property to
house the Department of Homeland Security's
Citizenship and Immigration Services agency

Class A Asset with Long Term Residual Value
— Property will be a modern two-story split level,
state of the art, public office facility, built to
withstand a CAT V hurricane

Brand New 10-Year Base Lease Term - Newly
signed 10-year lease, which is non-cancellable for
the first ten years, at a full service rate of $49.55 per
RSF

Mission Critical Facility — The subject Property is
truly mission critical as it will house a consolidation
of multiple CIS facilities and serves as the CIS center
for the entire St. Thomas region to welcome and
educate future US citizens

Strong Developer Track Record of GSA
Projects — The developer, Hoover Properties,
has successfully completed 29 different build-to-
suit developments for the U.S. Government for a
wide range of agencies. Inquire with broker for
additional information.

GSA’s Financial Contribution to Tenant
Improvements - The GSA is contributing almost
$1 million toward interior buildout at the Property,
well in excess of the developer's $665,000
contribution

LEED® Certified Building - The Property's
interior space will be constructed to meet the
requirements of LEED for Commercial Interiors

Subject Property Site

Page 5 GSA Investment & Acquisition Opportunity | St Thomas, USVI ee) Stan Johnson Company | THE NET LEASE AUTHORITY®

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018731
