due to adverse political, economic or other developments. These risks are magnified for investments
made in emerging markets. Investments in a certain industry or sector may pose additional risk due to
lack of diversification and sector concentration. There are special risks associated with an investment in
commodities, including market price fluctuations, regulatory changes, interest rate changes, credit risk,

economic changes and the impact of adverse political or financial factors.

Bank of America, Merrill, their affiliates, and advisors do not provide legal, tax, or accounting advice.

Clients should consult their legal and/or tax advisors before making any financial decisions.

Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (also referred to as “MLPF&S” or “Merrill”) makes
available certain investment products sponsored, managed, distributed or provided by companies that
are affiliates of Bank of America Corporation (“BofA Corp.”). MLPF&S is a registered broker-dealer,
registered investment adviser, Member SIPC and a wholly owned subsidiary of BofA Corp.

Merrill Private Wealth Management is a division of MLPF&S that offers a broad array of personalized
wealth management products and services. Both brokerage and investment advisory services (including
financial planning) are offered by the Private Wealth Advisors through MLPF&S. The nature and degree
of advice and assistance provided, the fees charged, and client rights and Merrill’s obligations will differ

among these services.

The banking, credit and trust services sold by Merrill’s Private Wealth Advisors are offered by licensed

banks and trust companies, including Bank of America, N.A., Member FDIC, and other affiliated banks.

Banking products are provided by Bank of America, N.A., and affiliated banks, Members FDIC and wholly
owned subsidiaries of BofA Corp.

Investment products:

Are Not FDIC Insured Are Not Bank Guaranteed May Lose Value

The Bull Symbol and Merrill Lynch are trademarks of Bank of America Corporation.

This report may not be reproduced or distributed without prior written consent.

© 2019 Bank of America Corporation. All rights reserved.| ARKQNX7F | 07/2019

Site Map ° Privacy & Security « Legal Information * MLPF&S Financial Statement * PBIG.com

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016803
