2 The Virgin istands: Bally News: .

_VIRGIN ISLANDS

fea’
ITS,
p's

i

Monday, July 29, 2013 -

Scouts aera at national Jamboree

By JOY BLACKBURN. =. 2
Daily News Staff, <.--* Seas

fresh from the National Scout Jamboree,
arrived at St. Croix’s Rohlsen Airport Friday
afternoon.

“Our scouts, they participated. They made
friends. We had-a good time,” said Chris
Brooks, the scoutmaster for the contingent that »

went to the jamboree. “Where there were chal-°*

{
H 5 lenges to. be bean we met. them head-on.” _ Q
i d ial Sco} Jamboree, sich

p Am pa ‘typically “holds.
§ tenis Of thousands of ©

was'th “f aniboreé was held

3, — ej National

Scout Reserve ‘in West Virginia’s New River

- Gorge area, which will now be the permanent

- home for the national jamboree. The réserve
a encompasses 10,600 acres... *

_. “Mostly it was: good,” Philip Edwards, 16,

~ the senior patrol leader for the Virgin Islands

_ Brot said’of the experience.

‘Said'a number ofstorms,and some

ning cancelled a few activities, including
‘some zip line adventures the group had sched-
‘uled — but he described it as a “great trip” that

“scouts enjoyed anyway.

| think they’ learned how to deal with disap-

ointment,” he said.

» Marcus Nena 14 and a patro! leader, said

NAlaAsth Aras CaAhararda
WIGLUEW LUVVaI Us

Scout Jamboree i in West Virginia.

it was his fistuational aaltbineee,

“1 think it was a-very productive jamboree. It
was a wonderful experience,” he said. “It was a
historical experience.” '

Norkaitis said it was historical because it was
the first national jamboree at the new reserve.
For years, the national jamboree liad been heid
at Fort A.P. Hill in Vurginia.

The group also learned to work together, he
said.

“It was really cool because we all leamed

VI. Boy! Seouts arrive Fada at Rohisen Airport on St. ‘Croix after spending 10 days at the National

teamwork,” Norkaitis said. “We had some
probiems at first, but then we got more com-
fortable worlaing together, working as a team.”

The 25 scouts from the territory included
boys from 11 to 17 years old from both island
districts. They joined up with 10 scouts from

the District of Columbia for the jamboree, “!

Brooks said. The Virgin Islands District is part
of the National Capitol Area Council in D.C.;
*Brooks said.
Among the challenges the scouts faced was

‘“

tt was really cool because we all
leamed teamwork. We had some
problems at first, but then we
got more comfortable working

together, working as a team.
— Marcus Norkaitis, 14, patrol leader

getting up on time aaily, gettmg tneir meals

prepared, and cleaning up. The hot, humid

weather in West Virginia was also a chailenge,

as was thesize of the new site for the jamboree, .
according to Brooks.

The new reserve is so large, the group some-
times had to walk for more than an hour to get
to an activity, he-said.

Because the 35 scouts who were part of the
group included scouts from St. Thomas, St. .
Croix and Washington, D.C., who did not neces-
sarily know each other, one of the challenges
was getting them to work together, Brooks said.

Making the scouts from different areas into a
cohesive group that worked well together was
one of the major challenges, according to
Brooks.

“In doing that, they made friends for life,” he
said. “All in all, our scouts came back with a
sense of accomplishment, a sense of friendship,
and.a.sense of being able.to safely do whatever
task they were asked to do.” ~

anhiaviac Caautti nn la Hiv
QAvuIInGvGcso OLOUUTIY oO lege rank

c
t

By Joy BLACKBURN
‘ _ Daily Rows Staff

‘ST. CROIX — Local Boy Scout

~. Matthew Edwards recently eamed the

highest advancement award the Boy
Scouts of America offer, becoming an
je Scout.

“We're delighted. We are very
_- proud of him;” said Dale Edwards,
. Matthew’s father, on Friday. as he and
_ Matthew’s mother, Lori Edwards,

4 waited for other sons to return from

_ the National Scout Jamboree. “He
_ worked very hard for it.”
» Only4 percent of all Boy Scouts
become Eagle Scouts, according to a

‘which are specifically required, and
successfully complete a community:
related service project, the press release
said.

Matthew’s project involved a major
cleanup at Buck Island Reef National
Monument.

“I worked with the National Park
Service and I coordinated and then
helped them carry out a coastline/trail
cleanup on Buck Island,” Matthew
said. The cleanup occurred as Buck
Island Reef National Monument was
celebrating its 50th anniversary.

Matthew, who has a brother who is
already an Eagle Scout and two other
brothers who are working toward

interest for awhile when he got into
high school.

But when he became a senior, he
decided to complete what he started
and earn the rank of Eagle, he said.

“I wanted to know the accomplish-
ment of finishing it,’ he said, adding
that he also felt like it was a family
expectation.

Sohe plunged back into it.

“T think it definitely gave me a lot of
perseverance and pushing through,” he

said. “A lot of it was a lot of paperwpde

and

Matthew said that becoming au
Eagle Scout required diligence and
dedication — but it was worth it.

“To be willing to put yourself out there,
do something you’re not comfortable

- doing, it’s fulfilling.” :
Matthew is eamecchicsted and his

immediate plan after graduation is to
participate in a five-month discipleship
training school with a focus on worship
and music, through Youth With a
Mission, according. to’ the ci

” release.
He will be recognized as an Eagle

Scout in a ceremony at 6:30 p.m.

Friday at the Howard M. Wall Scout

Camp: ; \
Matthew Edwards is the 11th scout

to become an Eagle Scout in Troop

227, which was chartered by Country

ipress release about Matthew attaining attaining the Eagle rank, saidhe has - = His advice for others who wouldlike © Day School.’
the Eagle rank- been involved in sgouting sincehe was __ to become Eagle Scouts? — Contact reporter Joy Blackburn
‘To become an Eagle irate acandi- _ little, and he assurned he would become “Just not to give up because it’s at 714-9145 or email
has to eam 21 merit badges, 11 of “an Eagle Scout — although he lost worth it once you’ve done it,” hesaid. jblackburn@dailynews.vi.
N 2159-2019 ‘Ghe Virgin Islands Advertising News
ews Pubishing 14° § “DAIL aN ws Contact us St. Thomas-St. John St. Thomas-St. John
Baperincomet: 6 © | YY’ E ; ‘744-9141 or 714-9147 714-9106
imes-Shamrock x Publisher ’
“fonmuications . Pate ice in Jasen Ratibing Fax: 774-6886 Fax: 776-0740
‘pubishas The Virgin ©) se © 2013 Daily Nels Publishing Co. St. Croix ;
Sitrns toy ond New Years Dayar | CAIONGAL... cs seesssssee 49 Nation & World....10-28 Se ae Cae Fax: 719-3000 773-4425
“9S5 Estate Thomas, Charlotte Amalie, St_ | Classifieds .......... inside, Opirionsscj.0....80-81 |-XeSueNe Ealtor Classified Fax: 773-1621
) Thomas, V1 00802, First class postage paid . -50: Gerry Ya ndel aSSInNeds
_ sharon Amalie, St. Thomas. U.S.VA et 0-53 . Police Reports ........... 8 714-9106 714-2222 get
TOSSWOTT ......eeeceseee 53 . Sports... 54-64 F : classifieds :
VE : gyandel@dailynews.vi ‘ 5
_ USPS 144-180 Cruise Ships .....0..5..7 Sudoku oe 51 | Editor At Large @dailynews.vi Fax: 776-0740
% AOSTUASIN send Fon 378, te a Horoscope.........:---.51 TV Schedule......48-49 | J. Lowe Davis Mail Opinions
© DnilyNews S155 Estate Thomas, St. | LOttery Results ........ 20 Weather... 12 | 714-9138 9155 EstateThomas = 714-9138
Thomas. Vi 00802 lowedavis@dailynews.vi St.Thomas, Vi 00802 letters@dailvnews. vi

. virginislandsdaitynewsnewspaperdirect.com

“Matthew Edwards

Circulation
7149101

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: One dollar daily.
Other subscription rates available on.request
The publisher reseives the right to change-

subscription rates during the

term of a subscription with 30 .

days tictice. The notice may be

made by mail to the subscribes,

by notice conteined in the
newspaper itself or otherwise.

Subscription changes maybe printed on
implemented by changing the _ recycled paper».
duration of the subscription. ‘

ONUINE SUBSCRIPTIONS:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021719
