require physical inventory and upfront cash. His business model is more elegant than that. Here is just
one revenue stream:

1. A prospective customer sees his Pay-Per-Click (PPC) advertising on Google or other search
engines and clicks through to his site, www.prosoundeffects.com.

2. The prospect orders a product for $325 (the average purchase price, though prices range from $29-
7,500) on a Yahoo shopping cart, and a PDF with all their billing and shipping information is
automatically e-mailed to Doug.

3. Three times a week, Doug presses a single button in the Yahoo management page to charge all his
customers’ credit cards and put cash in his bank account. Then he saves the PDFs as Excel purchase
orders and e-mails the purchase orders to the manufacturers of the CD libraries. Those companies
mail the products to Doug’s customers—this is called drop-shipping—and Doug pays the
manufacturers as little as 45% of the retail price of the products up to 90 days later (net-90 terms).

Let’s look at the mathematical beauty of his system for full effect.

For each $325 order at his cost of 55% off retail, Doug is entitled to $178.75. If we subtract 1% of the
full retail price (1% of $325 = $3.25) for the Yahoo Store transaction fee and 2.5% for the credit card
processing fee (2.5% of $325 = $8.13), Doug is left with a pretax profit of $167.38 for this one sale.

Multiply this by 10 and we have $1673.80 in profit for 30 minutes of work. Doug is making $3,347.60
per hour and purchases no product in advance. His initial start-up costs were $1,200 for the webpage
design, which he recouped in the first week. His PPC advertising costs approximately $700 per month
and he pays Yahoo $99 per month for their hosting and shopping cart.

He works less than two hours a week, often pulls more than $10,000 per month, and there is no
financial risk whatsoever.

Now Doug spends his time making music, traveling, and exploring new businesses for excitement.
Prosoundeffects.com is not his end-all-be-all, but it has removed all financial concerns and freed his
mind to focus on other things.

What would you do if you didn’t have to think about money? If you follow the advice in this chapter,
you will soon have to answer this question.

It’s time to find your muse.

THERE ARE A million and one ways to make a million dollars. From franchising to freelance consulting,
the list is endless. Fortunately, most of them are unsuited to our purpose. This chapter is not for people
who want to run businesses but for those who want to own businesses and spend no time on them.

The response I get when I introduce this concept is more or less universal: Huh?

People can’t believe that most of the ultrasuccessful companies in the world do not manufacture their
own products, answer their own phones, ship their own products, or service their own customers. There
are hundreds of companies that exist to pretend to work for someone else and handle these functions,
providing rentable infrastructure to anyone who knows where to find them.

Think Microsoft manufactures the Xbox 360 or that Kodak designs and distributes their digital
cameras? Guess again. Flextronics, a Singapore-based engineering and manufacturing firm with
locations in 30 countries and $15.3 billion in annual revenue, does both. Most popular brands of
mountain bikes in the U.S. are all manufactured in the same three or four plants in China. Dozens of call
centers press one button to answer calls for the JC Penneys of the world, another to answer calls for the
Dell Computers of the world, and yet another to answer calls for the New Rich like me.

It’s all beautifully transparent and cheap.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013891
