ATTERSON

iccusations of sexual misconduct

g nightmare he'd had to endure as a
y Epstein finally seemed to be over.

‘h Epstein behind her, Ghislaine

ve the oceans now,” a socialite says
atter at a private Palm Beach Club.
rraMar Project, describes itself as
transformation of the high seas.”
ight million metric tons of plastic
umped into the world’s oceans
earlier enterprise, the Seed Media
ipstein in 2005 to the tune of two

awake at night because they're

he asks in 2014 at a TEDx talk in F

you scared about what could hap-

yout what could you do that would r

ad of troubles?”

behalf of the environment are sin- 4

ill appears in the society pages.

sea Clinton’s wedding in Rhine

list Richard Johnson reports © : :

1g in an Iditarod dogsled race 4

Firtuy Ric

Alaska. “It’s hard to top Ghislaine Maxwell in the globe-trotting
department,” he writes.

Upon her return, the president of the China Arts Foundation
International hosts Maxwell at a dinner cooked by the former
chef for Madame Chiang Kai-shek.

Sources say that Maxwell still maintains her warm telation-
ship with the Clintons. She was never charged with a crime. And
Maxwell has repeatedly denied all allegations made by Virginia
Roberts—and continues to do so today. Through her lawyer,
Maxwell says she’s had no connection to any criminal misconduct
involving Virginia Roberts (or any other young woman) and Jef-
frey Epstein. She claims that Virginia's story about her experience

as a “sex slave” has changed, significantly, over time—that with
each telling, Virginia adds salacious details and names new public
figures. Nevertheless, legal troubles for Maxwell recently began.

In 2015, Virginia Roberts filed a defamation suit against the
woman she says recruited her to work at Epstein’s house on El Brillo
Way. In January of 2016, Roberts filed additional papers, claiming
that a defamation suit filed against Bill Cosby, another alleged sexual
predator, was directly relevant to her case against Maxwell. In March,
Maxwell filed an answer in court denying all of Roberts's allegations
and accusing Roberts of fabricating them for financial gain.

As of this writing, the suit is ongoing.

_ Prince Andrew

: In January of 2016, Sunninghill Park— the twelve-bedroom estate
| that Sarah Ferguson and Prince Andrew once shared in the
English county of Berkshire—was bulldozed.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022172
