Honorable Mark Filip
May 19, 2008
Page 7

Government’s confidential “list of victims.” Most of these lawsuits seek $50
million in money damages.

e Assistant U.S. Attorney David Weinstein spoke about the case in great detail to
Landon Thomas, a reporter with the New York Times, and revealed confidential
information about the Government’s allegations against Mr. Epstein. The Assistant
U.S. Attorney also revealed the substance of confidential plea negotiations.

e When counsel for Mr. Epstein complained about the media leaks, First Assistant
Sloman responded by asserting that “Mr. Thomas was given, pursuant to his
request, non-case specific information concerning specific federal statutes.” Based
on Mr. Thomas’ contemporaneous notes, that assertion appears to be false. For
example, Mr. Weinstein told Mr. Thomas that federal authorities believed that
Mr. Epstein had lured girls over the telephone and traveled in interstate commerce
for the purpose of engaging in underage sex. He recounted to Mr. Thomas the
USAO’s theory of prosecution against Mr. Epstein, replete with an analysis of the
key statutes being considered. Furthermore, after Mr. Epstein’s defense team
complained about the leak to the USAO, Mr. Weinstein, in Mr. Thomas’ own
description, then admonished him for talking to the defense, and getting him in
trouble. Mr. Weinstein further told him not to believe the “spin” of Mr. Epstein’s
“high-priced attorneys,” and then, according to Mr. Thomas, Mr. Weinstein
forcefully “reminded” Mr. Thomas that all prior conversations were merely
hypothetical.

We are constrained to conclude that the actions of federal officials in this case strike at
the heart of one of the vitally important, enduring values in this country: the honest enforcement
of federal law, free of political considerations and free of the taint of personal financial
motivations on the part of federal prosecutors that, at a minimum, raise the appearance of serious
impropriety.

We were told by U.S. Attorney Acosta that as part of the review he requested, the
Department had the authority, and his consent, to make any determination it deemed appropriate
regarding this matter, including a decision to decline federal prosecution. Yet, CEOS’s only
conclusion, based on its limited review of the investigation, is that U.S. Attorney Acosta would
not abuse his discretion by proceeding against Mr. Epstein. Thus, the decision of whether

4 — As recently as two months ago, Mr. Sloman was still listed publicly as a part of his former law firm. While we
assume this was an oversight, Mr. Sloman’s identification as part of the firm raises the appearance of
impropriety.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010729
