What do you do with all the extra time? Replace the newspaper at breakfast with speaking to your
spouse, bonding with your children, or learning the principles in this book. Between 9-5, complete your
top priorities as per the last chapter. If you complete them with time to spare, do the exercises in this
book. Recommending this book might seem hypocritical, but it’s not: The information in these pages is
both important and to be applied now, not tomorrow or the day after.

Each day at lunch break, and no earlier, get your five-minute news fix. Ask a well-informed colleague
or a restaurant waiter, “Anything important happening in the world today? I couldn’t get the paper
today.” Stop this as soon as you realize that the answer doesn’t affect your actions at all. Most people
won’t even remember what they spent one to two hours absorbing that morning.

Be strict with yourself. I can prescribe the medicine, but you need to take it.

Download the Firefox web browser (www.firefox.com) and use LeechBlock to block certain sites
entirely for set periods. From their site (http://www.proginosko.com/leechblock.html):

You can specify up to six sets of sites to block, with different times and days for each set. You can block
sites within fixed time periods (e.g., between 9am and 5pm), after a time limit (e.g., 10 minutes in every
hour), or with a combination of time periods and time limit (e.g., 10 minutes in every hour between 9am
and 5pm). You can also set a password for access to the extension options, just to slow you down in
moments of weakness!

2. Develop the habit of asking yourself, “Will I definitely use this information for something
immediate and important?”

It’s not enough to use information for “something” —it needs to be immediate and important. If “no” on
either count, don’t consume it. Information is useless if it is not applied to something important or if you
will forget it before you have a chance to apply it.

I used to have the habit of reading a book or site to prepare for an event weeks or months in the future,
and I would then need to reread the same material when the deadline for action was closer. This is stupid
and redundant. Follow your to-do short list and fill in the information gaps as you go.

Focus on what digerati Kathy Sierra calls “just-in-time” information instead of “just-in-case”
information.

3. Practice the art of nonfinishing.
This is another one that took me a long time to learn. Starting something doesn’t automatically justify
finishing it.

If you are reading an article that sucks, put it down and don’t pick it back up. If you go to a movie and
it’s worse than Matrix IIT, get the hell out of there before more neurons die. If you’re full after half a
plate of ribs, put the damn fork down and don’t order dessert.

More is not better, and stopping something is often 10 times better than finishing it. Develop the habit
of nonfinishing that which is boring or unproductive if a boss isn’t demanding it.

=» COMFORT CHALLENGE

Get Phone Numbers (2 Days)

Being sure to maintain eye contact, ask for the phone numbers of at least two (the more you attempt, the
less stressful it will be) attractive members of the opposite sex on each day. Girls, this means you’re in
the game as well, and it doesn’t matter if you’re 50+. Remember that the real goal is not to get numbers,
but to get over the fear of asking, so the outcome is unimportant. If you’re in a relationship, sign up to

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013853
