Table of Contents

In connection with the issuance of our senior notes (see Carvana’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2018, page 66-67), Carvana Group
amended its LLC agreement to create a class of non-convertible preferred units, which Carvana Co. purchased with its net proceeds from the issuance of
these senior notes.

The operations of Carvana Group, and the rights and obligations of the holders of our LLC Units (who we refer to as “LLC Unitholders”), are
set forth in the LLC Operating Agreement.

EXCHANGE AGREEMENT

On April 27, 2017, we entered into an exchange agreement with Carvana Co. Sub LLC (our wholly owned subsidiary) and the LLC
Unitholders. Under the exchange agreement, LLC Unitholders (and certain permitted transferees thereof) may exchange at any time their LLC Units for
either shares of our Class A common stock or for cash, whichever we decide. To the extent LLC Unitholders also hold Class B common stock, they will be
required to deliver to us the same number of shares of Class B common stock as Class A common stock being exchanged for. We will then cancel those
shares of Class B common stock. As LLC Unitholders exchange their interest in Carvana Group, our indirect interest in Carvana Group will increase
correspondingly.

When an LLC Unitholder makes an exchange, they will receive four shares of Class A common stock for every five Class A Units or, at our
option, cash equal to the value of a share of Class A common stock multiplied by 0.8 times the number of Class A Units being exchanged. The value of the
Class A common stock is determined by the average of the volume-weighted average prices for a share of Class A common stock for each of the three
consecutive full trading days ending on and including the last full trading day immediately prior to the related date of exchange. Class B Units are subject to
vesting and a participation threshold, and, as a result, LLC Unitholders exchanging Class B Units will receive a number of shares of Class A common stock
equal to the Class A common stock value (determined the same way as above) less the applicable participation threshold multiplied by 0.8 times the number
of Class B Units being exchanged, divided by the same Class A common stock value, subject to adjustment as set forth in the Exchange Agreement.

REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT

In connection with the IPO, we entered into a registration rights agreement with certain LLC unitholders. These LLC unitholders are entitled to
request that we register their shares on a long-form or short-form registration statement on one or more occasions in the future, which registrations may be
“shelf registrations.” All of these LLC unitholders will be entitled to participate in certain of our

- 40 -

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024349
