Date: Tue, Feb 9, 2016 at 7:56 PM
Subject: Fwd:

this was sent four months ago, nothing has changed

sent oct 15. before big transaction.

Office, - adagoes. , hire heather a paralegal. Joslin goes or is closely managed by new cfo with tax
experience. .castrucii goes asap.as he merely adds to mess.( too many people , ex 7 people or more to pay a
bill ) eva goes. outsource as much as possible... bookkeeping systems built from scratch, airplane
restructure, boat . same, new grats. phaidon sale , decide on artspace survivability, regan, . do the kids really
want these? , children accounting ie bens house.etc. re do estate for new facts. redo loans, trading accounts
activity, . gaming -foreign- disclosures. . BRH TRA re thinks . household and construction

architects. . redone. art partnership , choice of paintings. . re do structure of consultants. tax re family
office. . decide if investments are a realistic option in the next three years... insurance. operations. airplane ,
etc. . artfoundation , private. max charity contributions. financial reports. still waiting. ? on line
banking, . tax planning, family office deductions ( profit center ). airplane certificate, redone jet aviation
redo. . _— paper gigi ( E )trust to avoid gift tax. .

Date: Tue, Nov 15, 2016 at 6:13 AM

Subject: Fwd:

To: Melanie Spinella

Leon, Congragulations on biting the bullet. at least 18 months late , but Im encouraged and glad for
you. When you interviewed Brad two years ago you asked that i not tell him what a disaster lay before
him. what would you like me to tell Barry?

There is a HUGE amount of work to be done in the next 9 -12 months. mostly the exact same work that i
outlined in my email of 2 years ago. now complicated by years of mess on top. ( you can send it again if you
like ). Brad wechsler was never up to the task . sorry, I realize I have been saying the very same thing for a
long time. he was a not a step up from Eileen but a step sideways. in the beginning there was Eileen and
Tom and Ralph Lerner. all your hand picks. then brad. john, Joe. . joslin was chosen from a pool of 2
people. each that would be limited by a salary of 250k. ( yes i personally augmented his comp in order to get
him ) I did say hire both Lisa to do the bookkeeping and joslin tax, | He complained for over a year , re his
direction by eileen and ada , and then brad. His breakdown was not a surprise after months and moths of
warnings. Though disabled, he ran your office this year. with john and joe. He ran amok, and as i told
you he rarely failed to remind me in our conversations that you told him that he works for you and not for
me and that brad needs to pays him .

. Asking me who to hire , estate attny tax people etc. :

I have taken heat for years over the fact that 1 gave you no more than carlyns name, . no follow up

questions no interactions , not even one single question asked of me re her work. (that was Eileen _) but
somehow carlyns fuck up was my doing. . —_ when i told you that i thought Eileen wasn't up to the task, you
bellowed. that i was talking out of both sides of my mouth. . You told me this year , that by trying to protect
you from crazy joslin, I had in essence fired him and it was my responsibility to do his work. it then turns out
that he didn't consider himself fired at all he just received less money. and continued to make a really
dangerous mess.. Joshn castrucci, in your eyes, was also my doing , though email after email said , I take no
responsibility for him,and 1YOU SHOULD NOT HIRE HIM |!!! , your response was that was my opinion
was only because i didn't trust him. then to add insult to injury last jan you told me he was gone. however he
too is still there, and a waste of money and space.

My time is complicated by Donald's potentially eviscerating any reason for anyone to use the foreign
funds repatriation plan that i had put together. . however as you are aware I have some decisions to make re
my time allocation in the next year or two. so at least for a few weeks I am unable to commit much time and
make any future plans to guide you in the redoing of your procrastination produced mess.

That being said, the tasks at hand are the following.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023341
