personality headliner was slated to be the alt-right figure Milo Yiannopoulos, a gay British
right-wing provocateur attached to Breitbart News. Yiannopoulos—whose entire position,
rather more like a circa-1968 left-wing provocateur, seemed to be about flouting political
correctness and social convention, resulting in left-wing hysteria and protests against him
—was as confounding a conservative figure as could be imagined. Indeed, there was a
subtle suggestion that CPAC had chosen Yiannopoulos precisely to hoist Bannon and the
White House on the implicit connection to him—yYiannopoulos had been something of a
Bannon protégé. When, two days before CPAC opened, a conservative blogger discovered
a video of Yiannopoulos in bizarre revelry seeming to rationalize pedophilia, the White
House made it clear he had to go.

Still, the White House presence at CPAC—which included, along with the president,
Bannon, Conway, Education Secretary Betsy DeVos, and the oddball White House foreign
policy adviser and former Breitbart writer Sebastian Gorka—seemed to push the
Yiannopoulos mess to the side. If CPAC was always looking to leaven boring politicians
with star power, Trump, and anyone connected him, were now the biggest stars. With her
family positioned out in front of a full house, Conway was interviewed in Oprah-like style
by Mercedes Schlapp (wife of Matt Schlapp—CPAC was a family affair), a columnist for
the conservative Washington Times who would later join the White House
communications staff. It was an intimate and inspirational view of a woman of high
achievement, the kind of interview that Conway believed she would have been treated to
on network and cable television if she were not a Trump Republican—the type of
treatment, she’d point out, that had been given to Democratic predecessors like Valerie
Jarrett.

At about the time that Conway was explaining her particular brand of antifeminist
feminism, Richard Spencer arrived at the convention center hoping to attend the breakout
session “The Alt-Right Ain’t Right at All,” a modest effort to reaffirm CPAC’s traditional
values. Spencer, who since the Trump victory had committed himself to full-time activism
and press opportunities, had planned to position himself to get in the first question. But
almost immediately upon arriving and paying his $150 registration fee, he had attracted
first one reporter and then a growing circle, a spontaneous press scrum, and he responded
by giving an ad hoc news conference. Like Yiannopoulos, and in many ways like Trump
and Bannon, Spencer helped frame the ironies of the modern conservative movement. He
was a racist but hardly a conservative—he doggedly supported single-payer health care,
for instance. And the attention he received was somehow less a credit to conservatism than
another effort by the liberal media to smear conservatism. Hence, as the scrum around him
increased to as many as thirty people, the CPAC irony police stepped in.

“You're not welcome on the property,” announced one of the security guards. “They
want you off the property. They want you to cease. They want you off the property.”

“Wow,” said Spencer. “Can they?”

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019981
