Removing Yourself from the Equation: When and How

The system is the solution.

— AT&T

Tre diagram should be your rough blueprint for designing a self-sustaining virtual architecture. There

could be differences—more or fewer elements—but the main principles are the same:

1. Contract outsourcing companies that specialize in one function vs. freelancers whenever
possible so that if someone is fired, quits, or doesn’t perform, you can replace them without
interrupting your business. Hire trained groups of people who can provide detailed reporting and
replace one another as needed.

2. Ensure that all outsourcers are willing to communicate among themselves to solve problems, and
give them written permission to make most inexpensive decisions without consulting you first U
started at less than $100 and moved to $400 after two months).

How do you get there? It helps to look at where entrepreneurs typically lose their momentum and stall
permanently.

Most entrepreneurs begin with the cheapest tools available, bootstrapping and doing things themselves
to get up and running with little cash. This isn’t the problem. In fact, it’s necessary so that the
entrepreneurs can train outsourcers later. The problem is that these same entrepreneurs don’t know when
and how to replace themselves or their homemade infrastructure with something more sealable.

By “scalable,” I mean a business architecture that can handle 10,000 orders per week as easily as it can
handle 10 orders per week. Doing this requires minimizing your decision-making responsibilities, which
achieves our goal of time freedom while setting the stage for doubling and tripling income with no
change in hours worked.

Call the companies at the end of the chapter to research costs. Plan and budget accordingly to upgrade
infrastructure at the following milestones, which I measure in units of product shipped:

Phase I: 0-50 Total Units of Product Shipped

Do it all yourself. Put your phone number on the site for both general questions and order-taking—this is
important in the beginning—and take customer calls to determine common questions that you will
answer later in an online FAQ. This FAQ will also be the main material for training phone operators and
developing sales scripts.

Is PPC, an offline advertisement, or your website too vague or misleading, thus attracting unqualified
and time-consuming consumers’? If so, change them to answer common questions and make the product
benefits (including what it isn’t or doesn’t do) clearer.

Answer all e-mail and save your responses in one folder called “customer service questions.” CC
yourself on responses and put the nature of the customers’ questions in the subject lines for future
indexing. Personally pack and ship all product to determine the cheapest options for both. Investigate
opening a merchant account from your local small bank (easier to get than with a larger bank) for later
outsourced credit card processing at higher roll-out volumes.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013926
