TED2017: The future you

https://ted2017.ted.com/program

4/20/17, 12:07 PM
satellite observations to monitor and explain the changes happening around us. Her work has suggested that human activities are already
affecting global rainfall and cloud patterns. Marvel is committed to sharing the joy and beauty of science with wider audiences.

She has advised journalists, artists and policymakers, written a popular science blog and given frequent public talks. Her writing has
appeared in Nautilus Magazine.

marvelclimate.com @DrKateMarvel

Danny Hillis
Computer theorist

Inventor, scientist, author, engineer -- over his broad career, Danny Hillis has turned his ever-searching brain on an array of subjects, with
surprising results.

Danny Hillis is an inventor, scientist, author and engineer. While completing his doctorate at MIT, he pioneered the concept of parallel
computers that is now the basis for most supercomputers, as well as the RAID array. He holds over 100 US patents, covering parallel
computers, disk arrays, forgery prevention methods and various electronic and mechanical devices, and he has recently been working on
problems in medicine as well. He is also the designer of a 10,000-year mechanical clock, and he gave a TED Talk in 1994 that is
practically prophetic. Throughout his career, Hillis has worked at places like Disney and now Applied Minds, always looking for the next
fascinating problem.

appliedminds.com

Tim Kruger
Geoengineering researcher

Tim Kruger researches geoengineering: techniques to counteract climate change by deliberate, large-scale intervention in the earth system,
by reflecting sunlight back into space or by reducing the level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.

While our first priority should be to reduce global carbon emissions, research into geoengineering could prove vital in the fight to protect
our planet. At the Oxford Geoengineering Programme, Tim Kruger aims to assess the range of proposed geoengineering techniques to
determine which, if any, could be both technically feasible and benign environmentally, socially and ethically.

Kruger, an Oxford Martin Fellow, is a co-author of the Oxford Principles, a draft code of conduct for geoengineering. It calls for
geoengineering to be regulated as a public good, for public participation in decision-making and for disclosure of research and open
publication of results. He is involved in developing a process that uses natural gas to generate electricity in a way that removes carbon
dioxide from the atmosphere.

geoengineering.ox.ac.uk linkedin.com

Daan Roosegaarde
Artist

With his futuristic artworks, Daan Roosegaarde illuminates the intersection of technology, humanity and our urban environments.

Daan Roosegaarde builds jaw-dropping artworks that redefine humanity’s relationship to city spaces. Along with his team at Studio
Roosegaarde, Roosegaarde is devoted to “Landscapes of the Future,” city prototypes and urban adornments that fuse aesthetics with
sustainability.

From Smog Free Project in Beijing -- a tower that purifies its surrounding atmosphere and harvests pollutants to preserve as jewelry -- to
an interactive dance floor that generates electricity from dancers, Roosegaarde’s designs revolutionize the role of technology in the built
environment.

studioroosegaarde net @SRoosegaarde

Peter Calthorpe
Urban designer

Through his writing and his realized projects, Peter Calthorpe has spread the vision of New Urbanism, a framework for creating
sustainable, human-scaled places.

Peter Calthorpe’s 30-year design practice is informed by the idea that successful places -- whether neighborhoods, towns, urban districts or
metropolitan regions -- must be diverse in uses and users, must be scaled to the pedestrian and human interaction, and must be
environmentally sustainable.

In the early 1990s he developed the concept of Transit Oriented Development (described in his book Zhe Next American Metropolis:
Ecology, Community and the American Dream) -- an idea that is now the foundation of many regional policies and city plans around the
world. His 2010 book is Urbanism in the Age of Climate Change. Calthorpe Associates’ work in Europe, Asia and the Middle East has
demonstrated that community design with a focus on sustainability and scale can be adapted throughout the globe. His current work
throughout China is focused on developing standards and examples of Low Carbon Cities in Beijing, Chongqing, Kunming, Zhuhai, Jinan
and other major cities.

calthorpe.com

David Titley
Meteorologist

Scientists and retired Navy officer Dr. David Titley asks a big question: Could the US military play a role in combating climate change?

Page 12 of 21

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014962
