Enfora and the Enabler II provide us with an integrated approach to software, Internet
connectivity and customization that lets us focus on our product and service offering, said Eric
Stalnaker, VP of Business Development at GTXC. By working with Enfora, we know the

Xplorer® A-GPS Smart Shoe is built on a robust and highly accurate platform.
Download the full article

GTXC Wins Praise, Reduces Chip Size

Los Angeles, California, March 5, 2007 - GTXC received a strong, positive reception as a third
time exhibitor at the recent World Shoe Association show in Las Vegas, NV. It also won praise
from the technology community at the latest 3GSM World Congress in Barcelona, Spain. GTXC
continues to build momentum, enhance its intellectual property and provide leadership throughout

the embedded GPS footwear space.
Download the full article

New era of Wearable GPS capabilities enabled by technological breakthrough.

February 21, 2007, Los Angeles, CA - GTXC, founder of the Personal Location Services category
and leader in Miniaturized GPS Technologies, has created a proprietary, single click software
application used to activate the GPS-2-SMS Dual-GeoFence features that form an integral part of
its embedded GPS technology. The recent Multi Dual GeoFence patent application filled in
February 2007 is the most current of seven applications filed since the company's founding five
years ago, and promises to bring new capabilities and efficiencies to the Wearable GPS industry.

The company's first, US Patent 6.788.200 titled GPS Footwear was issued in September 2004.
Download the full article

GTXC unveils new generation of Smart GPS Shoes

Los Angeles, CA, January 25, 2007 - GTX Corp., a dominant world leader in personal location
services, will unveil their new Xplorer line of Smart GPS shoes on February Ist, at the World
Shoe Association (WSA) in Las Vegas.

Xplorer, the next generation of smart GPS shoes, incorporates the smallest, most powerful and
robust GPS tracking device on the market today. Drawing on a long history of patented embedded

GPS technology for footwear and other consumer products, GTXC has been in development on

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018152
