even more symphonies they’d probably be great too. Unfortunately he’s dead.
Wouldn't it be nice if we could sample his old symphonies and make new ones
whenever we want?2°°

In the future we'll invite Al into our lives to harmonize away many of the problems
we face, not merely making up for Mozart’s inconvenient mortality. “AI Agents” will
linger along side us. They will compose versions of themselves we'll not quite grasp,
even as we appreciate their efficient magic. “Al is both freedom from programming
and freedom from understanding,” runs one programmer’s line2®!. Today machines
that once demanded millions of lines of code can function with a fraction of that.
Instructions are sent to machine learning systems; the programs do the rest. Such
designs balance their mystery with efficacy. They speak to and learn from each
other too. Part of the reason that the the “Does it think like a human?” Turing Test
will be insufficient in the future is that the machines are not learning from only from
humans. They are learning from each other.

Perhaps this is not such a bad thing. The distinguished physicists George Ellis and
Joe Silk, who spent a lifetime trying to stand on Newton and Einstein’s shoulders to
grasp answers about gravity or the future of our universe, electrified many of their
peers in 2015 with by wondering if perhaps too much of science had become
unscientific, unverifiable, unreliable. The great grand ideas of our day, notions like
string theory or dark matter, differ in a crucial way from Newton's laws of motion or
Einstein’s principles: They cannot seem to be tested and significantly proved. And
this had fired a trend among younger physicits: Perhaps there was no need for
proof. To Ellis and Silk this seemed an awful retreat, dragging physics back to a pre-
Enlightenment age of conjecture, superstition and instinct. “This year, debates in
physics circles took a worrying turn,” they wrote. “Faced with difficulties in applying
fundamental theories to the observed Universe, some researchers called for a
change in how theoretical physics is done. They began to argue — explicitly — that
if a theory is sufficiently elegant and explanatory, it need not be tested.” Fans of such
an approach called the idea “post-empirical science.” This strange, oxymoronic idea
was, in a sense, like proposing post-rules baseball: A recipie for wild, swinging chaos
that would make scorekeeping impossible.

The strange, boiling debate did however reflect an underlying and unnerving truth:
Science does seem to have stalled. And it became inevitable to ask: Might it be
possible that the machines - or some fusion of Shalosh B. Ekhad andta human mind
- can reach into an understanding of laws that no human alone can fathom. We've
said again and again: Connection changes the nature of an object. Perhaps it changes

260 Wouldn't it be nice: Andrej Karpathy, “The Unreasonable Effectiveness of
Recurrent Neural Networks,” in The Hackers Guide to Neural Networks published
online May 21, 2015 or John Supko, “How I Taught My Computer to Write Its Own
Music,” in Nautilus, February 12, 2015 and Daniel Johnson, “Composing Music with
Recurrent Neural Networks,” on Hexahedria Blog August 3, 2015

261 Freedom from understanding: Philip Greenspun, “Big data and machine
learning” from Philip Greenspun weblog (November 21, 2015)

191

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018423
