High yield corporate bonds

Spread USD HY (26 June): 660bps (last month: 660bps)
UBS View USD HY spread target (6-month): 525bps

¢ US high yield (HY) bonds continue to offer attractive value; we expect high single-digit total returns over
the next six months. We stick to our spread forecast of 525bps based on an ongoing recovery of the US
economy, robust company balance sheets, rising earnings, and ongoing investor appetite for higher-
yielding assets. US HY bonds remain our preferred asset class.

¢ Fundamental factors remain supportive. Despite the recent uptick in defaults, in the absence of a
renewed US recession only a very gradual increase is to be expected. We forecast a modest rise in the
trailing default rate to 3.5% at the end of the year from 3.1% in May. A heavy load of new issuance in the
first three months of the year means that HY companies will be faced with a lower risk of failed
refinancing going forward (e.g. in case of an unexpected economic slump).

e¢ We acknowledge that ongoing risk aversion could still cause spreads to widen somewhat in the short run.
Investors who are able and willing to hold on to their HY position will likely benefit over 6 months.

@ Positive scenario USD HY spread target (6-month): 450bps
¢ In the positive economic scenario, a rally in high yield bonds and a return to pre-crisis spreads of about
400bps is likely. Benchmark yields would also rise, limiting HY returns to around 10%. European HY
outperforms the US.
& Negative scenario USD HY spread target (6-month): 1,200bps
¢ A global recession is a major risk for high yield bonds. Based on the more robust state of the corporate
sector, we would not expect spreads to widen to 2008/09 peak levels above 2,000bps. Although short-term
spikes are likely, due to liquidity suddenly drying up, we would expect a quick return to the usual
recession-level spread of around 1,200bps.

Note: Scenarios refer to global economic scenarios (see slide 7)

What we're watching
Credit quality/
default cycle

Why it matters

As long as corporate earnings increase and balance sheets remain backed by high
cash levels and low debt ratios, the default rate will remain below its 5% long-
term average.

For now, favorable conditions in the primary market have mainly been used for
refinancing. More aggressive issuance activities should be monitored.

Bank lending provides an important source of funding. US banks relaxed
standards slightly in 2Q. Key dates: early-July, ECB bank lending survey;
late-July, Fed Senior Loan Officer Survey

New issuance

Bank lending standards

36 UBS

Preference: overweight

Recommendations

Tactical (6 months)

e US high yield corporate bonds offer an

attractive return outlook and should be

overweighted.

We prefer US over European issuers given

the poorer economic outlook in Europe

and the increasing proportion of
peripheral and financial issuers in the

European HY universe.

Inflows into HY mutual funds have been

strong so far in 2012, but new issuance has

cooled down a bit in April and May.

Strategic (1 to 2 years)

e We expect US defaults to remain at below-
average levels for longer. Significant re-
leveraging is unlikely in the medium term.

° We believe US high yield corporate bonds
will provide good returns for absolute
return-oriented investors, as well as
relative to other fixed income segments.

Yield spreads
2,500 bps

2,000
1,500
1,000

500

ce)

2005 2006 2007
—EUR High Yield

2008 2009 2010 2012

—USD High Yield

2011

Source: Bloomberg, UBS CIO, as of 26 June 2012
Note: Past performance is not an indication of future returns.
27

For further information please contact ClO’s asset class specialist Philipp Schdttler, philipp.schoettler@ubs.com

Please see important disclaimer and disclosures at the end of the document.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024162
