Or
LA
“a
Plan
cre

Cannabis Investment Report | December 2017

Cannabis Industry Segments

E prove? n d Business Business
quipmen an Software Services
Supplies

Distribution Digital Media

Online Content Online
and Networking Directories

Consumer Products

Vaporizers and
Accessories

| Involves “touching the plant” | Does not involve “touching the plant”

= Production

We divide the production segment of the cannabis industry into three subsegments: cultivation, pro-
duction equipment and supplies, and production and testing services. Cultivation involves operating
grow facilities, propagating cannabis strains, and harvesting and curing cannabis flower. Production
equipment and supplies include the physical components used in production, such as extraction
equipment, testing equipment, lighting, irrigation systems and plant nutrients. Production and testing
services include services that support production, such as extraction or packaging, as well as testing ser-
vices related to product safety, composition and quality control. Each of these production subsegments
is described in more detail in the following discussion.

Cultivation

The principal function of a cannabis cultivator is to produce cannabis plants and flowers with the
aromas, flavors, active compounds and overall quality demanded by consumers and production inter-
mediaries. A cultivator can access hundreds of existing cannabis strains by purchasing seeds or clones
from commercial seed banks or nurseries, or developing unique strains through selective breeding. A
cultivator seeks to optimize the quality and quantity of a plant's yield by managing cultivation input
variables such as light, air, nutrition, and drying and curing times.

Cannabis Cultivation Process

Ordinarily, a period of three to ten months is required to grow and prepare cannabis flower for con-
sumption. The cultivation process generally can be organized into six phases: seed selection, seedling,
vegetative, flowering, harvesting and curing. Each of these phases is summarized in the following table.

32 © 2017 Ackrell Capital, LLC | Member FINRA/SIPC

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024668
