COWEN
COLLABORATIVE INSIGHTS

82

February 25, 2019

kg per year, which has led to a shortage of supply. In 2018, an import license was
granted to Canadian licensed producer (LP), Aurora, for 100 kg of medical cannabis per
year to help meet the demand.

Italy has a rich history of hemp cultivation and it used to be one of the main producers in
the world prior to prohibition of the plant. The market opened up in 2016 when the
government announced that a license to cultivate hemp for industrial, food, cosmetic
and energy purposes was no longer required. Whereas the rest of the EU requires THC
content to be below 0.2%, Italy permits a margin of up to 0.6%.

Based on the license exemption, many companies started producing and selling high
CBD, low THC referred to as “cannabis light.” Cannabis light products must state that the
product is not for human consumption; however, once a person purchases the product
the use is essentially up to their own discretion. These products are legally sold and
branded as “collectors’ items.” Since it is a “collectors’ item,” imported “cannabis light”
products are not taxed. However, it is necessary to have proper test and analytics when
crossing the border to guarantee the product passes customs.

One of the first “cannabis light” companies, EasyJoint Project, launched in 2017 and is

sold in hemp specialist shops. There are now around 1,000 e-commerce sites and other
retail stores that sell CBD oil, capsules, CBD for pets, dried flower, vapes and cosmetics.
Legally, the Health Ministry must approve products, yet this is not frequently enforced.

Foreign companies have invested in land over the last couple of years, including public
Canadian companies Wayland, LGC Capital, Canopy and CROP. In 2018, Wayland
entered a JV with CBD Italian Factory S.S. with plans to supply the local market with
CBD for medical, therapeutic and veterinary purposes. LGC Capital entered an
agreement with EasyJoint to acquire 47% of the company to gain access to the local
“cannabis light” companies’ 415 retail outlets and 11 branded stores. In February 2019,
Canopy made an investment in Italian organic hemp producer and CBD extractor,
Canapar Corp. CROP, a Canadian holdings company, acquired 30% of Italian company,
Zhemplar, to cultivate and extract low THC, high CBD products, under a white label
brand, Tiffany CBD and Hempire Italia. The company also has exclusive rights with Yield
Growth Corp to over 55 wellness products that can be infused with CBD.

Switzerland

Switzerland is recognized for its progressive drug policies and evidence based
approaches. Medical cannabis has been regulated since 2008 and continued to open
with regulatory changes in 2017. The number of patients is relatively small, at around
3,000 people. Prior to June 2018, it was not possible to obtain pharmaceutical grade
pure CBD for medical purposes. That changed once the Food and Drug Administration in
the U.S. approved Epidiolex; subsequently, the Swiss law changed, too. Pharmacies can
now prepare magistral formulas for CBD for patients who meet certain conditions

Although cannabis is controlled under the Narcotics Act, CBD is not included in that
legislation. The country permits 1% THC to be cultivated, produced and used, which is
regulated as a tobacco substitute. These products (e.g. pre-rolled joints, dried flower,
and cannabis cigarettes) are regulated under the Tobacco Ordinance and can be
purchased in supermarkets, specialty shops, kiosks and cafes. The first cannabis
cigarette was available for purchase in 2017. These products are predominantly
consumed by affluent businesspeople during breaks at work or the end of the day.

The Federal Office of Public Health (FOPH) provides regulatory oversight for tobacco
and CBD products. Registration with the FOPH is required for tobacco substitutes to

COWEN.COM

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024898
