21...) (Shenker and Kadanoff, 1982). Similar quantitative scaling properties were

also discovered in the parametric period adding route (Kaneko, 1983).

All of these scaling numbers have been found in experiments and in
remarkable agreement with theory. Examples have been discovered in electronic
circuits, hydrodynamic and mercury flows, acoustic systems, laser dynamics and
oscillating chemical reactions (see Cvitanovic’, 1989, for representative list of
references). Whereas qualitative evidence for all of these bifurcation scenarios have
been found in brain relevant experiments, there is yet to be a bifurcating
experimental biological system with adequate precision across a sufficient range of
magnitudes such that quantitative universality could be demonstrated across a
sufficient range of values to be convincing. We remind ourselves that in order to
establish a Fiegenbaum number, each period doubling bifurcation of the several
required necessitates about a five-fold improvement in the experimenter’s ability to

specify the control parameter.

Using Invariant Measures of Dynamical Neurobiological Systems

Before the modern era of dissipatively forced (energy utilizing) dynamical
systems research, the known attactors of an experiment’s initial values resulted
from their convergence onto either a fixed point or a limit cycle. An attractor can be
regarded as a set which remains in bounded space and to which all orbits in this
neighborhood converge (Milnor, 1985). Since by the rules of differential equations,
orbits are required to be both smooth (graphable without lifting the pencil) and
unique (different trajectories don’t intersect since the point of intersection would no
longer be unique), the foundational Poincare-Bendixon theorem says that any such
orbit confined to a two dimensional phase space that doesn’t converge to a fixed
point must, no matter how long it irregularly wanders, must, eventually intersect with
itself and then go around the same route again in a (perhaps very long) cycle. In
most neuroscience research as well, we have generally regarded our data as

manifesting either tolerable (or intolerable) fluctuations around mean values (fixed

200

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013700
