COWEN
COLLABORATIVE INSIGHTS

February 25, 2019

guarantee quality control and compliance. However, this is practiced under “self-
supervision” requiring the company to register products prior to market placement. In
recent years, the FOPH has been removing CBD products from storefronts due to lack of
self-compliance, transparency and false claims.

Swiss law also permits CBD to be used in pure or synthesized form for cosmetic
products. The Federal Food Safety and Veterinary Office regulates cosmetic products as
well as products that contain hemp-derived ingredients and CBD liquids for e-cigarettes.
None of these products can make any pharmacological claims. The Federal Office for
Agriculture regulates hemp seeds, oil, fiber, etc, and seeds must be certified and listed
under the European Union’s Common Catalogue of Varieties.

From 2017 to 2018 there was an influx in the number of cannabis companies in
Switzerland, leveling off from around 500 companies to around 100 companies. While
many are supplying the local market, a number of companies are exploring and
exporting to neighboring markets (e.g. Italy, France, Germany). Beyond their
geographical advantage, Switzerland also is recognized for its quality and sophisticated
pharmaceutical sector.

At the end of 2018, LGC Capital entered a partnership with Viridi, a Swiss cultivator,
processor and distributor of high-CBD products. Wayland acquired Haxon AG, a Swiss
hemp producer of 1% THC products. Creso Pharma Limited entered into an agreement
with Hempmate Zurich AG for further expansion into the European CBD market.

France

Medical cannabis has been legal in France since 2013 and Marinol has been the only
product prescribed. In 2018, the ANSM launched an investigation to explore scientific
data for therapeutic uses of the plants, type of eligible conditions and consider
regulatory frameworks in other legal medical markets. An initial recommendation found
that legal medical cannabis should be authorized and final recommendations are
expected to be released by September 2019. Aurora has already announced plans to
expand into France by investing in infrastructure prior to the market opening.

France is the leading hemp cultivator and processor in Europe, and the global leader in
hemp seed production. In 2016, there was a total of 33,000 hectares growing hemp.
Stalks and seeds can be processed, yet buds cannot be legally processed, unless for
medical purposes. Synthetics are permitted for use. The country permits the cultivation
of 20 strains, approved by the EU. There is one company, Hemp-it, that has received a
license to grow different varieties.

Despite its leading position in hemp production, the French government has cracked
down on the sale of hemp-derived products and CBD sold in stores, cafes and seed
shops, as a response to public health and safety. Over the past few months, the Ministry
of Social Affairs and Health and National Agency for the Safety of Medicines and Health
products (ANSM) have been conducting a review on the uses and authorizations
required for CBD. There are a number of CBD and hemp-derived skincare and cosmetic
companies that sell lotions, cremes, pain balms, beard oils, etc. France’s extensive
history in the cosmetics industry positions the country well for CBD skincare.

COWEN.COM 83

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024899
