In nearby Alexandria, Virginia, Richard Spencer, the president of the National Policy
Institute, which is sometimes described as a “white supremacist think tank,” who had,
peskily for the White House, adopted the Trump presidency as a personal victory, was
organizing his trip to CPAC, which would be as much a victory march for him as it was
for the Trump team. Spencer—who, in 2016, he had declared, “Let’s party like it’s 1933,”
as in the year Hitler came to power—provoked an outcry with his widely covered “Heil
Trump” (or “Hail Trump,” which of course amounts to the same thing) salute after the
election, and then achieved a kind of reverse martyrdom by taking a punch from a
protester on Inauguration Day that was memorialized on YouTube.

CPAC, organized by the remnants of the conservative movement after Barry
Goldwater’s apocalyptic defeat in 1964, had, with stoic indefatigability, turned itself into
the backbone of conservative survival and triumph. It had purged John Birchers and the
racist right and embraced the philosophic conservative tenets of Russell Kirk and William
F. Buckley. In time, it endorsed Reagan-era small government and antiregulatory reform,
and then added the components of the cultural wars—antiabortion, anti-gay-marriage, and
a tilt toward evangelicals—and married itself to conservative media, first right-wing radio
and later Fox News. From this agglomeration it spun an ever more elaborate and all-
embracing argument of conservative purity, synchronicity, and intellectual weight. Part of
the fun of a CPAC conference, which attracted a wide assortment of conservative young
people (reliably mocked as the Alex P. Keaton crowd by the growing throng of liberal
press that covered the conference), was the learning of the conservative catechism.

But after a great Clinton surge in the 1990s, CPAC started to splinter during the George
W. Bush years. Fox News became the emotional center of American conservativism. Bush
neocons and the Iraq War were increasingly rejected by the libertarians and other suddenly
breakaway factions (among them the paleocons); the family values right, meanwhile, was
more and more challenged by younger conservatives. In the Obama years, the
conservative movement was increasingly bewildered by Tea Party rejectionism and a new
iconoclastic right-wing media, exemplified by Breitbart News, which was pointedly
excluded from the CPAC conference.

In 2011, professing conservative fealty, Trump lobbied the group for a speaking slot
and, with reports of a substantial cash contribution, was awarded a fifteen-minute berth. If
CPAC was supposedly about honing a certain sort of conservative party line, it was also
attentive to a wide variety of conservative celebrities, including, over the years, Rush
Limbaugh, Ann Coulter, and various Fox News stars. The year before Obama’s reelection,
Trump fell into this category. But he was viewed quite differently four years later. In the
winter of 2016, during the still competitive Republican primary race, Trump—now eyed
as much as a Republican apostate as a Republican crowd pleaser—decided to forgo CPAC
and what he feared would be less than a joyous welcome.

This year, as part of its new alignment with the Trump-Bannon White House, CPAC’s

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019980
