Chapter 4
Brief Survey of Cognitive Architectures

4.1 Introduction

While we believe CogPrime is the most thorough attempt at an architecture for advanced AGI,
to date, we certainly recognize there have been many valuable attempts in the past with similar
aims; and we also have great respect for other AGI efforts occurring in parallel with Cog-
Prime development, based on alternative, sometimes overlapping, theoretical presuppositions
and practical choices. In most of this book we will ignore these other current and historical
efforts except where they are directly useful for CogPrime — there are many literature reviews
already published, and this is a research treatise not a textbook. In this chapter, however, we
will break from this pattern and give a rough high-level overview of the various AGI archi-
tectures at play in the field today. The overview definitely has a bias toward other work with
some direct relevance to CogPrime, but not an overwhelming bias; we also discuss a number of
approaches that are unrelated to, and even in some cases conceptually orthogonal to, our own.

CogPrime builds on prior AI efforts in a variety of ways. Most of the specific algorithms
and structures in CogPrime have their roots in prior AI work; and in addition, the CogPrime
cognitive architecture has been heavily inspired by some other holistic cognitive architectures,
especially (but not exclusively) MicroPsi [Bac09], LIDA [BF 09] and DeSTIN [ARK09a, ARCO9J.
In this chapter we will briefly review some existing cognitive architectures, with especial but
not exclusive emphasis on the latter three.

We will articulate some rough mappings between elements of these other architectures and
elements of CogPrime — some in this chapter, and some in Chapter 5. However, these mappings
will mostly be left informal and very incompletely specified. The articulation of detailed inter-
architecture mappings is an important project, but would be a substantial additional project
going well beyond the scope of this book. We will not give a thorough review of the similarities
and differences between CogPrime and each of these architectures, but only mention some of
the highlights.

The reader desiring a more thorough review of cognitive architectures is referred to Wlodek
Duch’s review paper from the AGI-08 conference [DOPO8]; and also to Alexei Samsonovich’s
review paper [Sam 10], which compares a number of cognitive architectures in terms of a feature
checklist, and was created collaboratively with the creators of the architectures.

Dutch, in his survey of cognitive architectures [DOP08], divides existing approaches into three
paradigms — symbolic, emergentist and hybrid — as broadly indicated in Figure 4.1. Drawing on
his survey and updating slightly, we give here some key examples of each, and then explain why

57

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012973
