also doing something else. It had infected tens of thousands of machines, which
were all cranking away in unintended harmony. During the 48 hours of its brief and
unforgettable life, it was later calculated, the Morris Worm had become the most
powerful parallel computer in history. At its peak, it managed to achieve a
processing speed of 400 billion operations per second - about twice the speed of the
most expensive supercomputers of the day.

Like any unexpected epidemic, the worm became a social, cultural and technological
milestone. First, it caused Morris to be arrested. He was handed a $10,000 fine,
some community service and several years of probation. He later went on to found
an important Internet company, to join the faculty of MIT and to receive the highest
honors in computing for his (other) efforts.

Then, a year or so after the virus had been finally corralled, the computer scientist
Fred Cohen, one of the earliest specialists in malware - in fact, the man who
invented the term “computer virus” - wrote an article that challenged the notion
that all computer viruses are, inherently, bad.215 What drew his attention was that
fabulous, unbelievable record of the Morris Worm: 400 billion computations each
second. “The features that make computer viruses a serious threat to computer
integrity,” he wrote, “can also make them a powerful mechanism.”2'6 This optimistic
gloss, which sounded an awful lot like “The Plauge was great for humanity!” if you
didn’t follow Cohen's logic, triggered a furious response. Eugene Spafford, also a
well-regarded computer researcher, fired back: “For someone of Dr. Cohen’s
reputation to actually promote the uncontrolled writing of any virus, even with his
stated stipulations, is to act irresponsibly and immorally.”21”

So here, then, is a line, of sorts. The Morris Worm, an expression of really massive
connection and interaction and speed, is a model for the world we live in now. Fast,
linking with a mind of its own, running best (or at least fastest) when it uses the
design of the system to spread on a topology optimized for speed. But who is right
about the implication of such an historic design. Cohen? Spafford? Do we want our
whole world cranking away, super fast, compressing time to nothing?

We can, all of us, decide to fight against the very ideas of a network. Or we can, like
Cohen suggested, look at the terrifyingly fast nature of this world and begin to see
something else. The totally unimaginable. Of course Spafford was not wrong. There
is something scary and thought-muddling about the idea of intentionally authored
computer viruses, running wild, ever faster. But there is something thought-
muddling about this whole world we're entering. Networks are pulling at every
existing structure. They hum, really, with the most elemental and precious human

215 Fred Cohen: Frederick B. Cohen. A Short Course on Computer Viruses (Pittsburgh,
PA: ASP Press, 1990)

216 “The features”: Fred Cohen, “Friendly Contagion: Harnessing the Power of
Computer Viruses”, The Sciences Sept/Oct 199, 22

217 Eugene Spafford: Eugene Spafford, “Three Letters on Computer Security and
Society,” Purdue e-Pubs 1991, 91-088

146

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018378
