The natural default might be to do smaller things, incremental versions of the program.
But Trump showed little interest in the small stuff. He became listless and irritable.

So, okay, it would have to be peace in the Middle East.

For Trump, as for many showmen or press release entrepreneurs, the enemy of
everything is complexity and red tape, and the solution for everything is cutting corners.
Bypass or ignore the difficulties; just move in a straight line to the vision, which, if it’s
bold enough, or grandiose enough, will sell itself. In this formula, there is always a series
of middlemen who will promise to help you cut the corners, as well as partners who will
be happy to piggyback on your grandiosity.

Enter the Crown Prince of the House of Saud, Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz
Al Saud, age thirty-one. Aka MBS.

The fortuitous circumstance was that the king of Saudi Arabia, MBS’s father, was
losing it. The consensus in the Saudi royal family about a need to modernize was growing
stronger (somewhat). MBS—an inveterate player of video games—was a new sort of
personality in the Saudi leadership. He was voluble, open, and expansive, a charmer and
an international player, a canny salesman rather than a remote, taciturn grandee. He had
seized the economic portfolio and was pursuing a vision—quite a Trumpian vision—to
out-Dubai Dubai and diversify the economy. His would be a new, modern—well, a bit
more modern—kingdom (yes, women would soon be allowed to drive—so thank God
self-driving cars were coming!). Saudi leadership was marked by age, traditionalism,
relative anonymity, and careful consensus thinking. The Saudi royal family, on the other
hand, whence the leadership class comes, was often marked by excess, flash, and the
partaking of the joys of modernity in foreign ports. MBS, a man in a hurry, was trying to
bridge the Saudi royal selves.

Global liberal leadership had been all but paralyzed by the election of Donald Trump—
indeed, by the very existence of Donald Trump. But it was an inverted universe in the
Middle East. The Obama truculence and hyperrationalization and micromanaging,
preceded by the Bush moral militarism and ensuing disruptions, preceded by Clinton deal
making, quid pro quo, and backstabbing, had opened the way for Trump’s version of
realpolitik. He had no patience with the our-hands-are-tied ennui of the post-cold war
order, that sense of the chess board locked in place, of incremental movement being the
best-case scenario—the alternative being only war. His was a much simpler view: Who’s
got the power? Give me his number.

And, just as basically: The enemy of my enemy is my friend. If Trump had one fixed
point of reference in the Middle East, it was—mostly courtesy of Michael Flynn’s tutoring
—that Iran was the bad guy. Hence everybody opposed to Iran was a pretty good guy.

After the election, MBS had reached out to Kushner. In the confusion of the Trump
transition, nobody with foreign policy stature and an international network had been put in

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020053
