rERSON

heard those conversations, |
vhen he was on the phone and
ke. I witnessed lots of things. I

ally, you all [want to knowl.

like 1 w—1 don't, I don't know
saying, “You're my favorite, and
o. but I was in about as deep as

ould say that to.

sage training?

too. [remember that. And when
cing off he would, like, rub him-
I was extremely uncomfortable. 1
vay from that activity. Id get up
xe, or 'd—I don't even remember.
3 going on without saying, “Can
would stop it without saying stuff

thing in me until one day he did
said, “Wait a second: my boyfriend,
ling, you can't (
here as long as you don't do that.
a couple months later I gues

46

do that. You know, r

s he

Firttuy Ricu

assumed me and my boyfriend had broken up, and he just did
it one day; he just did it without asking or anything. And then
I said, “What are you doing?” I said, “You know that’s not
cool,” and he goes, “Oh, I thought we did that last time.” And
I said, “No, we did not do that last time.” And then he goes—
uh, and then he just offered me more money. He’s like, “Well,
why don't I just give you something extra, and we can try this
out?” And I was like [sigh], “All right.” Very hard guy to say
no to. I don’t know if.any of you guys ever talked to him....

Oh, yeah. Well, if you talk to him, I mean, he straight up
tries to control the situation. Every—every word that comes
out of your mouth, it seems like, he knows what you are
going to say. Like, that’s his job; that’s how he made his
money is knowing what people are gonna say and what peo-
ple are gonna do.

: What did he tell you he does for a living?
: Well, there’s a couple of things. Things that I found for

myself, things I looked up on the Internet. What he specifi-
cally told me when I asked him the first time was, “Oh, I’ma
brain scientist.” And I said, “What the fuck is a-brain scien-
tist?” I was like, “That’s not a real job—tell me the truth.”
But anyway ... his explanation was, “It’s my job to know how
people’s brains work.” And I said, “Whatever the fuck that
means. Whatever. You're like some old guy who [unintelligi-
ble....]” You know what he promised me? Here's the reason I
held on so long is, he promised me that I would get into NYU.
That I would get into NYU and he would pay for it. And I
waited, and I waited, and I scored great on my SATs, I would
get 4.0—like, I did great in school. I filled out my application

47

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019163
