note that changing the ratios of the numbers of cubes that are dense in point
probability to those that are sparse would not influence the value of Do. This helps
differentiate Do from other dimensions and, as noted above, Do as a maximal
estimate of the fractal dimension, is called the capacity dimension and by
convention the scaling law is written M(<)~ « ”. More specifically, Do is calculated

by repeatedly dividing the d-dimensionally embedded phase space into equal d-
dimensional hypercubes and plotting the log of the fraction of the hypercubes
containing data points versus the log of the (normalized) linear dimension (“length
scale”) of the hypercubes. The slope fitted to the most linear part of the slope
(usually the middle 50%) indicates the capacity dimension. Do is computed for
increasing embedding (and cube) dimension, d, until it achieves an asymptotic
plateau, it “saturates”. This is but one of a range of geometric scaling exponents,
“dimensions,” that are currently being computed (Farmer et al, 1983; Grassberger
and Procaccia, 1983; Meyer-Kress, 1986; Theiler, J. (1990); Gershenfeld, 1992; Ott
et al,, 1994).

Although still subject to debate, convention has it that the sample length
required to determine this most primitive of dimension computations goes like
10” (e.g. a dimension of 2.45 requires a sample length of at least 282 points).
Assuming robust findings using Do as indicated by non-parametric tests of
significance in test-retest, before and after, drug treatment designs, this arbitrary
criteria sounds more like ritual than meaningful help for the clinical neuroscientist
with (say) 100 spinal fluid hormone and metabolite samples painfully and
laboriously collected from a patient’s indwelling catheter over 48 hours. In the
context of real data (and not numerical studies of differential equations), we are
dealing with empirical findings that must find their meaning (or lack of) in the context
of questions about issues in the neurosciences, not in abstract questions such as
those about the number of dimensions that an unknown differential equation would
require to represent the data (Broomhead and King, 1986). In a similar arbitrary
spirit, a system manifesting a Do > 5 is considered not discriminable from a random
process; e.g. the difference between Do = 5 versus Do = 7 (though perhaps

statistically significant) is thought to be without meaning. Since in neurobiological

228

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013728
