TED2017: The future you

4/20/17, 12:07 PM

David Titley is a Professor of Practice in Meteorology and a Professor of International Affairs at the Pennsylvania State University. He is
the founding director of Penn State’s Center for Solutions to Weather and Climate Risk. He served as a naval officer for 32 years and rose
to the rank of Rear Admiral. Titley’s career included duties as commander of the Naval Meteorology and Oceanography Command;
oceanographer and navigator of the Navy; and deputy assistant chief of naval operations for information dominance. He also served as
senior military assistant for the director, Office of Net Assessment in the Office of the Secretary of Defense.

While serving in the Pentagon, Titley initiated and led the U.S. Navy’s Task Force on Climate Change. After retiring from the Navy, Titley
served as the Deputy Undersecretary of Commerce for Operations, the chief operating officer position at the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration. Titley serves on numerous advisory boards and National Academies of Science committees, including the
CNA Military Advisory Board, the Center for Climate and Security and the Science and Security Board of the Bulletin of the Atomic
Scientists. Titley is a fellow of the American Meteorological Society. He was awarded an honorary doctorate from the University of
Alaska, Fairbanks.

solutions2wxrisk.psu.edu @dwtitley

Ted Halstead
Policy entrepreneur, climate expert, author

Ted Halstead is breathing new life into US climate policy by mobilizing conservative leaders and CEOs around a breakthrough carbon
dividends solution.

When not writing or sailing around the world, Ted Halstead launches cutting-edge think tanks. His first, founded when he was 25,
introduced new measures of progress and coordinated the Economists’ Statement on Climate Change, signed by 18 Nobel laureate
economists. His second, New America, has become one of the most influential think tanks in Washington.

Halstead’s newest creation, the Climate Leadership Council, is transforming climate policy and politics by advancing a more effective,
popular and equitable climate solution, based on the conservative principles of free markets and limited government. He has published
numerous articles in the New York Times, Washington Post, Financial Times, Fortune, Atlantic, National Review, Los Angeles Times and
Harvard Business Review. He has also published two books, including Zhe Radical Center: The Future of American Politics (co-authored
with Michael Lind).

clcouncil.org @ImTedHalstead

Wednesday, April 26, 5:00PM - 7:00PM PDT

Session 7: Connection, Community

Hosted by Kelly Stoetzel and Bruno Giussani.

https://ted2017.ted.com/program

Jacob Collier
Musician and artist

Jacob Collier is a one-man audio-visual viral sensation. In his videos, he sings every part, plays every instrument and visualizes every
component with a captivating vision.

Jacob Collier is nothing short of prodigious. A two-time Grammy-winning singer, arranger, composer, and multi-instrumentalist, he
combines everything from jazz and a cappella to classical and Brazilian music. In 2014, he was discovered by the legendary producer
Quincy Jone. Shortly after, Collier began working on his audio-visual live performance vehicle designed and built at MIT.

Since his first video in 2011, Collier has amassed more than 250K international followers and 10 million YouTube views, including on his
astounding cover of Stevie Wonder's Don't You Worry ‘Bout a Thing.” In July 2016, Collier released his chart-topping debut album, Jn My
Room. Most recently, he's been touring the world with his unique one-man show, helping to score the newest Dreamworks film, The Boss
Baby, with Hans Zimmer, collaborating on Herbie Hancock's upcoming record and holding masterclasses at universities across the globe.

jacobcollier.co.uk @JCollierMusic

Anna Heringer
Architect

Anna Heringer’s sustainable designs lend breathtaking forms to easily-available local materials while developing the skills and
consciousness of their builders.

Before she became an architect, a visit to a small village in Bangladesh immediately hooked Anna Heringer on an ancient and yet
neglected building material -- earth. With its easy availability, durability and endless recyclability, she realized, there was a reason its use
has persisted for thousands of years.

Since then, Heringer’s love affair with sustainable materials has deepened, resulting in acclaimed projects like woven bamboo hostels in
China and the METI Handmade School in Rudrapur, where, along with local workers and schoolchildren, she created a building that drew
on locally abundant materials and fostered modern, sustainable building skills in local craftsmen. In the 2014 book, The Future of
Architecture, she and her coauthors argue for a future that is low-impact and adaptable.

anna-heringer.com @AnnaHeringer

Grace Kim

Page 13 of 21

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014963
