miami ), commitments dividends, BRH TRA, shareholder agreements, bank loan

agreements. wills, construction, , contracts planning permits etc..employ rules. checking account
reconciliations, crediti cards. jewelry , cost basis ,( art stock etc.) foundations regs , brokerage accts, old
stock certificates. stock options,( environmental solutions still not done !). estate tax calcualtion firedrill, (
note ,basis etc ) low basis , step ups , however with no accounting system, no reveiw of boat expenses plane
expenses etc. . many outside counsel with litle or no coordination.

Paul Weisss , Mcdermit Will, Macfarlanes. Price Waterhouse , Reich, withers bergman, Empire, , akin gump,
bbd seidman, Wendy , Apollo in house .

lumber, knowledge universe, ennvironmental, solutions 12 mii in stock, . on and on

the priority list that you asked me to prepare for brad and you in dec , unfortunatlleyso far , little change

ie no accounting system that ties, no, brokerage accounts though strongly suggested , jpm db, gs, april of
2014 . IT antiquated

dagastino hired , no inut from me, julie, temps, paralegals miriam . etc.

still need new accounting system - on line banking . staff hires. ( seprate from samantha two years out of
school ). audit system, . ?? john murphy? joslin? dag? eva? . i strongly suggest workers at the highest level of
competence. two senior accountants. not managers workers who will get into the weeds. partn expertise, ,
replace ava, get heather help. a new person legal , new IT,system and person, way way overdue, new
receptionist, bill opener, ability to oeversee

in house, boat plane review household ( 12million ) review, filings- partnerhip accounting,- familitarity with
grats, trusts etc . audit system put in place. that should be the easy part. then strategy to deal with: As new
facts on the ground develop , phaidon debra, children meeetings, ? stock sale sale of art, , apt( large gain ),
1031 trade in , plane depreciation, boat sale. construction , brad will oversee brokerage and investment, ?? pe.
real es, . publishing, grats, tra, brh ( death). foundation , museum, tax proejctions cash flow projections,
cooridnation with tax from apollo. etc

Date: Tue, Jun 30, 2015 at 12:23 PM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spincll iii i Zi

1.I believe Ihave heard you , but i wanted to make certain that I have understood

Though after much discussion ,- much! you were adamant that i receive my fee only at the very END of my
work, oct 15, this was a long discussion but you felt very strongly at the time . you now feel that as it was
a very large sum of money . some of my time this year should be spent on your recent concept of after care
.- and that after care should be for free . I have continued to pay others as well.

I have asked and you have previously said you would lay out for me what you thought was encompassed by
the concept. that was end of january Training brad?? who was your choice . not mine ,by a long shot. only
brought on in january? ? hundreds of hours spent . eileen debrief? 2. boat. plane
household ex[penses. personal review? , trying to create accurate ledgers of capital expenses . so to minimize
future gain.? 3. phaidon - review from head to toe? though we agreed many times in the past this was not
my responsbility, 4. overseeing the opening of trading accts. proposed and sent over first docs in april of
14. .5. art partnership.? we agreed though the draft was sent in septl4 . and still not done though little
different from first draft. .6 picasso contract? 7 art sale 1031 8 airplane review? 9. IT system
implementation. ? tra brh sec gaming comm, foerign filing , tax, disclosure. fondation returns. ? planning for
16? notsure . 10. insurane review with josh? stock sale prep. ? filing ?

Iam available by phone. you mentioned my travel schedule ----last yea,r I canceled three European trips and
two to seatle , none to my benefit.

I have been consistant , I dont have any new proposal , do you? though i am complicated , I have no
intention of trying to convince you of value, its silly ,

OOOOOOOOOCOOOCOOCOOOO _ i think if Ihave correctly deciphered your sophisticated code - should
represent -drool

Date: Tue, Mar 3, 2015 at 5:18 AM
Subject: Fwd:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023355
