4.2.12
WC: 191694

As one juror subsequently put it: She was very, very credible [at the trial], but now she's not
credible at all. Right now, I wouldn't believe anything she said. I would sign an affidavit that if we
had known about the money, I couldn't have voted to convict him. Mike Tyson deserves a new
trial.

In light of the numerous errors made by Judge Gifford at the trial, this should have been the
easiest appeal I ever argued. The law, the new evidence and the judicial and prosecutorial errors
made at trial, clearly required a reversal of the conviction and a new trial.

Legal experts who read our brief and heard the oral argument concluded that we should win the
appeal. The law was on our side. The facts were on our side. And our briefs and arguments
were much stronger than those of our opponents. As the legal expert who reported on the trial
and appeal for USA Today put it after watching the appellate argument:

“Ex-heavyweight boxing champion Mike Tyson had his best day in court Monday.

As Tyson completed day 328 of his six-year prison term for rape, famed appellate lawyer
Alan Dershowitz vigorously attacked: Tyson’s accuser, Desiree Washington; trial judge
Patricia Gifford; and the Marion County (Ind.) prosecutor’s office.

In spite of a trial record filled with mistakes, omissions and elementary errors by the
fighter’s ex-defense team, Dershowitz and colleagues argued that Tyson’s conviction must
be set aside... The major arguments cited by Mike Tyson’s attorneys Monday in appeal of
his rape conviction [were the following]:

-Trial judge Patricia J. Gifford erred by blocking testimony from witnesses who
might’ve challenged the credibility of accuser Desiree Washington

-Gifford’s refusal to allow the jury to hear an instruction regarding “mistake of
fact, or “reasonable belief’ concerning whether Tyson believed Washington
wanted to have sex with him.

-Gifford should have prevented jurors from listening to Washington’s call to 911
reporting the alleged attack. Defense claims Washington invited the attack to sue
Tyson, and that the call might have been part of the scheme.

-The prosecution committed misconduct by concealing from the defense an
attorney-fee agreement for book and film rights to Washington’s story.
-Prosecutors manipulated court selection procedure to pick a supposedly
sympathetic judge.

-The judge should have stopped prosecutors from arguing before the jury that the
defense is not obligated to tell the truth.

“Tyson got his money’s worth Monday...Reversal of a criminal conviction by a jury is
rare, but Tyson’s attorneys might have successfully pinpointed the crucial issues that will
free him.”

241

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017328
