predictable. This unpredictability is partially responsible for changes in the brain. Promiscuous mating
systems demand more flexibility, creativity and out of the box thinking.

The anthropologist Steve Gaulin explored the idea that a species’ mating system is directly
related to its capacity to think. Gaulin started by looking at two closely related species of voles, one
monogamous and the other polygynous. In the polygynous vole, males typically mate with multiple
females. To achieve this kind of mating success, males have large territories that encompass many
smaller female territories. In the monogamous species, the male and female share the same territory, with
mating restricted to the couple. These differences in mating system and space usage have two direct
consequences: relative to the monogamous male vole, the polygynous male vole must travel much further
in a day than the females and must recall where the female territories are located. For a polygynous male
vole, mating success depends on long day trips, visiting each of the female territories. For the
monogamous male vole, there are no physical or memory challenges as the female is virtually always
nearby. Given the costs to a polygynous male vole of forgetting where the females live, there should be
strong selection on the memory system. Gaulin confirmed this prediction by showing that polygynous
male voles outcompete females of their species in a maze running competition, and also have larger
memory systems than females. In the monogamous vole, there are no sex differences in maze running or
memory.

Gaulin’s work provides a gorgeous example of how evolutionary pressures can act on the brain to
create differences in psychological capacity. Other examples abound, including evidence that fruit eaters
have larger brains than leaf eaters, primates living in large social groups have larger frontal lobes than
those living in smaller groups, and bats living in open habitats have smaller brains than those living in
complex closed habitats. In each case, a particular ecological or social pressure — finding ripe fruit,
updating the status of numerous social relationships, avoiding obstacles while in flight — sculpts
differences in brain anatomy and function. Some of these pressures favor extreme specialization and
myopia, whereas others favor a broader vision. Relative to every healthy member of our species, all other
animals have tunnel vision. When our ancestors began to migrate out of Africa, the diversity of
environments and social opportunities favored generalists with a broad and flexible vision.

To appreciate the significance of the human revolution in brain engineering, consider three cases
of myopic, but highly adaptive intelligence in other animals, cases that lack the signature of intellectual
promiscuity; these cases are of particular interest because they represent the kinds of examples that
caused Darwin to doubt the beneficence of God, to reflect upon the cruelty of nature, and to ponder the
problem of evil:

* The wasp Ampulex compressa tackles a specific species of cockroach, inserts a

first stinger into its body to cause leg paralysis and eliminate fighting, then a second

Hauser Chapter 1. Nature’s secrets 27

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012773
