James Niedel, MD, Ph.D., (70), Venture Partner, joined Sprout in May 2002 and helped found
New Leaf in 2005. Jim will change his status to Venture Partner in NLV-II] with the closing of
the new fund. In this role, Jim will work full-time as a senior member of the NLV investment
team working on new investments, and he will continue with full oversight and portfolio
management responsibilities for NLV-I and NLV-II. Jim is currently on the boards of directors
of Chimerix (NASDAQ: CMRX, former Chairman) and Tioga. He was previously on the boards
of Intarcia Therapuetics (now currently a Board observer), Sirna Therapeutics (NASDAQ:
RNAI, acquired by Merck in 2006 for $1.1 billion), where he served as Chairman; Oriel
Therapeutics (acquired by Novartis in 2010), where he served as Executive Chairman, and Pearl
Therapeutics (acquired by AstraZeneca in 2012). Prior to joining Sprout, Jim was Chief Science
and Technology Officer for GlaxoSmithKline (“GSK”). From 1995 to 2001, he led Global
Research and Development, Information Technology and Product Strategy and was a member
of the board of directors of Glaxo Wellcome plc. From 1988 to 1995 Jim was Vice President,
Research and Senior Vice-President R & D for the U.S. subsidiary of Glaxo. During his nearly
13 years with the Company, he oversaw the discovery, development and/or registration of over
20 products marketed by GSK, including those for: HIV, hepatitis B, asthma/COPD, migraine,
BPH, irritable bowel syndrome, smoking cessation, depression, chemotherapy-induced nausea
and vomiting, breast cancer, herpes and malaria. Prior to GSK, Jim was Professor of Medicine,
Chief of the Division of Clinical Pharmacology and Principal Investigator on studies of
mechanisms of cancer and inflammation at Duke Medical School, where he had completed an
Internal Medicine residency and a Hematology-Medical Oncology fellowship. Jim received his
M.D. and Ph.D. (Biochemistry) degrees from the University of Miami, was selected a Searle
Scholar and is a Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians (London).

Liam Ratcliffe, MD, Ph.D., (50), Managing Director, joined New Leaf in September 2008 and
concentrates on biopharmaceutical investing. He is currently on the boards of directors of
Array BioPharma (NASDAQ: ARRY), Neuronetics, Karus Therapeutics, Afferent, Calchan and
Convergence, the latter three investments resulting from spin-outs from Roche (Afferent) and
GSK (Calchan & Convergence), respectively. Prior to joining New Leaf, Liam previously served
as Senior Vice President and Development Head for Pfizer Neuroscience, as well as Worldwide
Head of Clinical Research and Development. Additional positions during his 12 years at Pfizer
included Vice President of Exploratory Development for the Mid West region, and Head of
Experimental Medicine at Pfizer’s Sandwich, UK Laboratories. As Head of Neurosciences, Liam
was responsible for the development of several successful late-stage projects and marketed
products, including Lyrica, Chantix and Geodon. In previous roles, he gained extensive
experience in early drug development and translational research across multiple therapeutic
areas, including inflammation, pain, cardiovascular disease, infectious diseases and genitor-
urinary medicine. Liam began his career in the pharmaceutical industry in a medical marketing
role at Roche in South Africa. He received his M.D. degree and Ph.D. degree in immunology
from the University of Cape Town and his M.B.A. degree from the University of Michigan.
Liam completed his internal medicine training and fellowship in Immunology at Groote Schuur
Hospital and associated teaching hospitals in Cape Town, South Africa.

13 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024024
