lop players in the fashion and entertainment field requested that Mr. Brunel
function as iheir exclusive agent ond representative. Some of Ihese top former
and present professional supermodels in the fashion field include. Naomi
Campbell, Christy Turlington, Rebecca Romijn, Mila Jovanovich, inez Sasire,
Melanie Thierry, and Jerry Holl. Attached as EXHIBIT 2, please find prass articles
regarding ihe modek and actresses who were both discovered by and careers
wére lounched by the beneficiary, Jean Luc Brunel. Additionally. aHached as
EXHIBIT 3, please lind several articles regarding ihe prestigious repuiation of
Karin Models as formerly one of the world's leading agencies.

Most recently in October 2005. and after his reign with Karin Models, Mr.
Brunel launched the prestigious MC2 Model Managemeni wordwide with
offices in New York, Miami ond Tet Aviv. Mr. Brunel staried ihe high-profile MC2
Model Management in order to represent high fashion models in a boutique
agency setiing. MC2 Model Management is aready being lauded by fashion
insiders as “one of the hottest agencies in Norlh America” as well as
“prominenily positioned lo be one of the major players of the Zeros becouse of
its insider relationships wilh the most influential photographers cround.” We invite
you 10 visit www.mc2mm.com in order to view the high-caliber of models, MC2
represents Some of iis most recent successful bookings include liu Dan's
exclusive coniraci os the foce of the Fall 2007 Guess Campaign and Sammy
Jo's Cover story for Cosmopolitan Magazine. Aitached as EXHIBIT 4, please find
G list of all of MC2's clients, including several high-profite campaigns fealuing
some of MC2's fashion modiets. as well as several press clippings regarding this
prestigious and reputable modeling agency.

Jean Luc Brunel's entrepreneunal spirit is not only contained to the freld of
ars, beauty. and fashion. In 1970, as o result of his business insight, Mr. Brunei
founded and grew Jean Luc Relations Publique, which specialized in press and
promotions for tour operators and restouranls in Fronce. During his work through
Jean Luc Relations Publique. Mr. Brunet represenied vorious key clients and
collaborated on numerous prestigious events. Some of the presligious events
include: Air Tour and Dare Voyages. Jean Luc Relations Publique also promoted
and markeled La Tour D'Argen. a three-star restaurant owned by Claude Terrait
and. “The Go-Between, a motion picture by George Losey. Ofher projects
taken on by Mr, Brurel through his public relations company wos his work os
product ageni for Jean Claude Killy, 1968 Winter Olympic Gold Medolisi skier, fo
promote Vail, Colorado in France tor tourism potential and ako directed all of
the promotion for Finland's Ministry of Tourism, tn 1975. Mr. Brunel iurther invesied
in the Food and Hospitality market by creating ond developing El Mono
Desnudo- a legendory, high-end ber on the ibenan Peninsula. This bar was
known throughout the peninsulas extremely exclusive and attracied a
celebrity clieniele that included actress, Ursula Andress, and lhe Duchess
D'Alba. Alached as EXHIBIT 5, please find the beneficiary's, Jean Luc Brunel,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011983
