218 12 The Engineering and Development of Ethics

Stage Characteristics
Mature Ethics

e Formal cognitive basis

e Perry’s Relativist and “Constructed Knowledge” stages

e The abstraction involved with applying the Golden Rule
in practice is more fully understood and manipulated,
leading to limited but nonzero deployment of the Cate
gorical Imperative

e Attention is paid to shaping one’s ethical principles into
a coherent logical system

e Rationalized, moderated selfishness or selflessness.

e Empathy is extended, using reason, to individuals and
situations not directly matching one’s own experience

e Theory of mind is extended, using reason, to counterin-
tuitive or experientially unfamiliar situations

e Reason is used to control the impact of empathy on be
havior (i.e. rational judgments are made regarding when
to listen to empathy and when not to)

e Rational experimentation and correction of theoretical
models of ethical behavior, and reconciliation with ob-
served behavior during interaction with others.

e Conflict between pragmatism of social contract orienta-
tion and idealism of universal ethical principles.

e Understanding of ethical quandaries and nuances develop
(pragmatist modality), or are rejected (idealist modality).

e Pragmatically critical social citizen. Attempts to main-
tain a balanced social outlook. Considers the common
good, including oneself as part of the commons, and acts
in what seems to be the most beneficial and practical

manner.

Table 12.5: Integrative Model of the Stages of Ethical Development, Part 2

The main engine of advancement from the conventional to mature stage, we suggest, is robust
and subtle integration of the simulative and inferential components. To expand empathy beyond
the most obvious cases, analogical inference is needed; and to carry out complex inferences about
justice, empathy-guided inference-control is needed.

Finally, to advance from the mature to the enlightened stage, what is required is a very
advanced capability for unified reflexive inference and simulation. The system must be able
to understand itself deeply, via modeling itself both simulatively and inferentially — which
will generally be achieved via a combination of being good at modeling, and becoming less
convoluted and more coherent, hence making self-modeling easier.

Of course, none of this tells you in detail how to create an AGI system with advanced
ethical capabilities. What it does tell you, however, is one possible path that may be followed to
achieve this end goal. If one creates an integrative AGI system with appropriately interconnected
inferential and simulative components, and treats it compassionately and fairly, and provides
it extensive, experientially grounded ethical instruction in a rich social environment, then the
AGI system should be able to ascend the ethical hierarchy and achieve a high level of ethical
sophistication. In fact it should be able to do so more reliably than human beings because of
the capability we have to identify its errors via inspecting its internal knowedge-stage, which

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013134
