Becoming a member of the NR is not just about working smarter. It’s about building a system to
replace yourself.

This is the first exercise.

Even if you have no intention of becoming an entrepreneur, this is the ultimate continuation of our
80/20 and elimination process: Preparing someone to replace you (even if it never happens) will produce
an ultrarefined set of rules that will cut remaining fat and redundancy from your schedule. Lingering
unimportant tasks will disappear as soon as someone else is being paid to do them.

But what about the cost?

This is a hurdle that is hard for most. If I can do it better than an assistant, why should I pay them at
all? Because the goal is to free your time to focus on bigger and better things.

This chapter is a low-cost exercise to get you past this lifestyle limiter. It is absolutely necessary that
you realize that you can always do something more cheaply yourself. This doesn’t mean you want to
spend your time doing it. If you spend your time, worth $20—25 per hour, doing something that someone
else will do for $10 per hour, it’s simply a poor use of resources. It is important to take baby steps
toward paying others to do work for you. Few do it, which is another reason so few people have their
ideal lifestyles.

Even if the cost is occasionally more per hour than you currently earn, the trade is often worth it. Let’s
assume you make $50,000 and thus $25 per hour (working from 9-5, Monday through Friday, for 50
weeks per year). If you pay a top-notch assistant $30 per hour and he or she saves you one full 8-hour
shift per week, your cost (subtracting what you’re being paid) is $40 to free an extra day. Would you pay
$40 per week to work Monday to Thursday? I would, and I do. Keep in mind that this is a worst-case
cost scenario.

But what if your boss freaks out?

It’s largely a non-issue, and prevention is better than cure. There is no ethical or legal reason for the
boss to know if you choose non-sensitive tasks. The first option is to assign personal items. Time is time,
and if you’re spending time on chores and errands that could be spent better elsewhere, a VA will
improve life and the management learning curve is similar. Second, you can delegate business tasks that
don’t include financial information or identify your company.

Ready to build an army of assistants? Let’s first look at the dark side of delegation. A review is in
order to prevent abuses of power and wasteful behavior.

Delegation Dangers: Before Getting Started

The first rule of any technology used in a business is that automation applied to an efficient
operation will magnify the efficiency. The second is that automation applied to an inefficient
operation will magnify the inefficiency.

— BILL GATES

H... you ever been given illogical assignments, handed unimportant work, or commanded to do

something in the most inefficient fashion possible? Not fun and not productive.

Now it’s your turn to show that you know better. Delegation is to be used as a further step in
reduction, not as an excuse to create more movement and add the unimportant. Remember—unless
something is well-defined and important, no one should do it.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013875
