RSON

he'd heard about in church.
those kids looked. The way
women. They were like zom-
4nd now, in America, Noel’s
ids.

him, at least.

ill strong at fifty, and lucky
alm Beach, he gets in to work
white compactor truck clean,
e runs hot and cold with the
with much less to do, he’s on
shift that would break a lesser
| gets even harder. The Estate
- of the parties have hundreds
ntains of refuse. That garbage
ty when requested. It's carried
ler the porte cocheres. Then it
to a landfill that the garbage-

+tion runs from the Everglades
he island. It encompasses Ban-
Vay, and El Brillo Way. His per-

far as the Palm Beach PD is
or the job.

h pull’ —a legal way to collect
>, evidence culled from Jeffrey

police call him, Noel St. Pierre

fugee boat has run aground on

reve

Firryy Ricu

the beach. A sad thing, but something that does happen from
time to time. His homeland, Haiti, is desperately poor. Run by
despots who line their pockets while everyday people suffer.

Many of the refugees are illiterate.

Most of them speak only Creole.

“Eske ou ka ede nou, souple,” they ask.

“Can you help us, please?”

The cops always need a translator, and Noel’s been asked to
help out before. But this time the police officer’s voice is raspy,
impatient.

“This time is different,” the officer says. “Something very
special. You don’t have to accept. But if you do, you'll have to
keep things to yourself, completely.”

When he hears what the story is, Noel accepts.

“Tll do it,” he says immediately.

The address he’s been given is 358 El Brillo Way. On his first
morning, St. Pierre moves swiftly, sneaking a glance through the
kitchen window at the four silhouettes standing inside. Three
women, one of them quite short, with pigtails.

The fourth silhouette is that of a tall man.

The police have given him clear instructions. The work is
unsavory, but so is the work Noel does every day. What the
detectives want from him now are slips of paper with phone
numbers, along with toothbrushes, condoms, discarded under-
wear. Anything that could provide DNA. He’s been told to use a
special truck on the El Brillo run. Whatever he finds he’s to put
aside in small trash bags he'll deliver directly to the station at the
end of every shift.

29

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019145
