4.2.12
WC: 191694

Moreover, the fervor in the hatred of Israel could not be explained in rational, policy terms.
Israel, the “Jew Among Nations,” was being treated by many on the hard left and on the Islamic
right, in the way the Jewish people had been treated for millennia. This change took me by
surprise.

In the conclusion to my 1991 book, Chutzpah, I predicted the end of mainstream, top-down anti-
Semitism in America, and its replacement by anti-Zionism. I also predicted “a sharp decline in
support for Israel among college and university students,” who will be “tomorrow’s leaders.” I
should have, but did not anticipate that the new anti-Zionism would morph into anti-Semitism, at
least for some. I should have because the hatred of Israel by the hard left and the Islamic right
was So irrational, so off the charts, so extreme, that it could be explained only by a hatred for
Israel’s Jewishness. A confrontation I experienced in 2004 was all too typical:

It took place in front of Faneuil Hall, the birthplace of American independence and liberty. I was
receiving a justice award and delivering a talk from the podium of that historic hall on civil
liberties in the age of terrorism. When I left, award in hand, I was accosted by a group of
screaming, angry young men and women carrying virulently anti-Israel signs. The sign carriers
were shouting epithets at me that crossed the line from civility to bigotry. “Dershowitz and Hitler,
just the same, the only difference is the name.” The sin that, in the opinion of the screamers,
watranted this comparison between me and the man who murdered dozens of my family members
was my support for Israel.

It was irrelevant to these chanters that I also support a Palestinian state, the end of the Israeli
occupation, and the dismantling of most of the settlements. The protestors also shouted,
“Dershowitz and Gibbels [sic], just the same, the only difference is the name”—not even knowing
how to pronounce the name of the anti-Semitic Nazi butcher.

One sign carrier shouted that Jews who support Israel are worse than Nazis. Another demanded
that I be tortured and killed. It was not only their words; it was the hatred in their eyes. If a dozen
Boston police had not been protecting me, I have little doubt I would have been physically
attacked. The protestors’ eyes were ablaze with fanatical zeal.

The feminist writer Phyllis Chesler aptly describes the hatred some young people often direct
against Israel and supporters of the Jewish state as “eroticized.” That is what I saw: passionate
hatred, ecstatic hatred, orgasmic hatred. It was beyond mere differences of opinion.

When I looked into their faces, I could imagine young Nazis in the 1930s in Hitler’s Germany.
They had no doubt that they were right and that I was pure evil for my support of the Jewish
state, despite my public disagreement with some of Israel’s policies and despite my support for
Palestinian statehood.

There was no place for nuance here. It was black and white, good versus evil, and any Jew who
supported Israel was pure evil, deserving of torture, violence, and whatever fate Hitler and
Goebbels deserved.

To be sure, these protestors’ verbal attack on me was constitutionally protected speech, just as
the Nazi march through Skokie was constitutionally protected speech. But the shouting was
plainly calculated to intimidate. An aura of violence was in the air, and had the police not been
there, I would not have been able to express any views counter to theirs.

353

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017440
