Thanks for getting back to me. I was asking because I found the quote shocking . . . the evidence against
Epstein is overwhelming and he's even pled guilty to paying for sex with a minor. It's in no way scientific or
rational to assume that because you never saw him with an underage girl he must actually be innocent. It is
possible for a person to be kind and generous with his friends but still a criminal paying for sex with
underage girls in his private life.

I'm going to write about the topic on Skepchick, and I'll include any additional statement you'd like if you
want to provide more context or if you've changed your mind.

-R

On Wed, Apr 6, 2011 at 12:50 PM, Lawrence Krauss i wrote:
yes it is.. Based on my direct experience with Jeffrey, which is all I can base my assessment on, he is a
thoughtful, kind, considerate man who is generous to his friends, and all of the women I have known who
have been associated with Jeffrey speak glowingly in the same words..

why are you asking?

On Apr 6, 2011, at 9:41 AM, Rebecca Watson wrote:

Dear Professor Krauss,

We met briefly after your talk in Ithaca a few months ago — I'm the girl on The Skeptics’ Guide to the
Universe podcast. I've really enjoyed your talks and books, but I was surprised to see you quoted in the
Daily Beast recently defending Jeffrey Epstein:
http://www.thedailybeast.com/blogs-and-stories/2011-04-01/bill-clinton-katie-couric-woody-allen-jeffrey-

epsteins-society-friends-close-ranks/2/

Can you confirm if the following quote is accurate?

If anything, the unfortunate period he suffered has caused him to really think about what he wants to do
with his money and his time, and support knowledge,” says Krauss. Jeffrey has surrounded himself with
beautiful women and young women but they're not as young as the ones that were claimed. As a scientist I
always judge things on empirical evidence and he always has women ages 19 to 23 around him, but I've
never seen anything else, so as a scientist, my presumption is that whatever the problems were I would
believe him over other people. Though colleagues have criticized him over his relationship with Epstein,
Krauss insists, I don't feel tarnished in any way by my relationship with Jeffrey; I feel raised by it.”

Thanks,
Rebecca Watson

Lawrence M. Krauss

Foundation Professor

Director, The ASU Origins Project
Co-Director, Cosmology Initiative
Assoc. Dir, Beyond Center
ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY
College of Liberal Arts and Sciences

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_03091 1
