DAVID BROOKS

David Brooks (born August 11, 1961) is a political and cultural
commentator who writes for The New York Times. He worked as
an editorial writer and film reviewer for the Washington Times;
a reporter and later op-ed editor for The Wall Street Journal;

a senior editor at The Weekly Standard from its inception; a
contributing editor at Newsweek and The Atlantic Monthly;

and as a commentator on National Public Radio. He is

now a columnist for The New York Times and commentator

on PBS NewsHour.

Brooks, who is Jewish, was born in Toronto,
Canada—his father was a U.S. citizen living in Canada at the
time—and grew up in New York City in Stuyvesant Town. He
graduated from Grace Church School in New York City, Radnor
High School (located in a Main Line suburb of Philadelphia)
in 1979 and from the University of Chicago, with a degree
in history, in 1983.

Brooks edited a 1996 anthology of writings by
new conservative writers, Backward and Upward: The New
Conservative Writing. He wrote a book of cultural commentary
titled Bobos in Paradise: The New Upper Class and How They
Got There, published in 2000, and followed it four years later
with On Paradise Drive: How We Live Now (And Always Have)
in the Future Tense.

He also authored The Social Animal: The Hidden
Sources of Love, Character and Achievement. The book was
excerpted in The New Yorker magazine in January 2011
and received mixed reviews upon its full publication, by
Random House, in March of that year. The book has been a
commercial success, reaching the #3 spot on the Publishers
Weekly best-sellers list for non-fiction in April 2011.

Brooks was a visiting professor of public policy at
Duke University’s Terry Sanford Institute of Public Policy, and
he taught an undergraduate seminar there in the fall of 2006.

He and his wife live in the Cleveland Park
neighborhood of Northwest Washington, DC.

Brooks describes himself as being originally a liberal
before “coming to my senses.” In 1983, he wrote a parody
of conservative pundit William F. Buckley Jr., which said
“Tn the afternoons he is in the habit of going into crowded
rooms and making everybody else feel inferior. The evenings
are reserved for extended bouts of name-dropping.”

Buckley admired the parody and offered Brooks
ajob with National Review. A turning point in Brooks’s
thinking came later that year in a televised debate with
Milton Friedman, which, as Brooks describes it, “was
essentially me making a point, and he making a two-
sentence rebuttal which totally devastated my point.”

Before the 2003 invasion of Iraq, Brooks argued
forcefully for American military intervention, echoing the
belief of commentators and political figures that American
and British forces would be welcomed as liberators. In the
spring of 2004, some of his opinion pieces suggested that
he had tempered his earlier optimism about the war.

Brooks’ public writing about the U.S. wars in
Afghanistan and Iraq is similar to those by neoconservatives,
according to a Salon article by Glenn Greenwald, that labels
Brooks as a neoconservative. His angry dismissal of the
conviction of Scooter Libby as being “a farce” and having “no

significance” was derided by political blogger Andrew Sullivan.

On August 10, 2006, Brooks wrote a column for The
New York Times titled “Party No. 3”. The column proposed
the idea of the McCain-Lieberman Party, or the fictional
representation of the fictional moderate majority in America.

Ottawa Citizen commentator David Warren has
identified Brooks as the sort of conservative pundit that
liberals like, someone who is “sophisticated” and “engages
with” the liberal agenda, in contrast to a real conservative like
Charles Krauthammer. Brooks has long been a supporter of
John McCain; however, he did not show a liking for McCain’s
2008 running mate, Sarah Palin, calling her a “cancer” on
the Republican Party. He has referred to her as a “joke,”
unlikely to ever win the Republican nomination. But he later
admitted during a CSPAN interview that he had gone too far
in his previous “cancer” comments about Palin, which he
regretted, and simply stated he was not a fan of her values.

In a March 2007 article published in The New
York Times titled “No U-Turns”, Brooks explained that the
Republican Party must distance itself from the minimal-
government conservative principles that had arisen
during the Abraham Lincoln, Barry Goldwater, Ronald
Reagan and Calvin Coolidge eras. He claims that these
core concepts had served their purposes and should
no longer be embraced by Republicans in order to win
elections, which he considers the most important purpose
of a political party designed to serve the political class.

Brooks has been a frequent admirer of President
Barack Obama. In an August 2009 profile of Brooks, The
New Republic describes his first encounter with Obama, in the
spring of 2005: “Usually when I talk to senators, while they
may know a policy area better than me, they generally don’t
know political philosophy better than me. I got the sense he
knew both better than me. [...] remember distinctly an image
of—we were sitting on his couches, and I was looking at his
pant leg and his perfectly creased pant, and I’m thinking,

a) he’s going to be president and b) he’ll be a very good
president.” Two days after Obama’s second autobiography,

The Audacity of Hope, hit bookstores, Brooks published a
column in The New York Times, titled “Run, Barack, Run”,
urging the Chicago politician to run for president. However as
of December 2011 in a CSPAN interview, Brook’s opinion of
Obama’s presidency was more tempered, giving Obama only
a “B-” rating, and said that Obama’s chances of reelection
would be less than 50-50 if elections were held at that time.

In writing for The New York Times in January 2010,
Brooks described Israel as “an astonishing success story”.
He wrote that “Jews are a famously accomplished group,”
who, because they were “forced to give up farming in the
Middle Ages... have been living off their wits ever since”. In
Brooks’ view, “Israel’s technological success is the fruition
of the Zionist dream. The country was not founded so stray
settlers could sit among thousands of angry Palestinians
in Hebron. It was founded so Jews would have a safe place
to come together and create things for the world.”

Brooks opposes what he sees as self-destructive
behavior, such as teenage sex and divorce. His view is that
“sex is more explicit everywhere barring real life. As the
entertainment media have become more sex-saturated,
American teenagers have become more sexually abstemious”
by “waiting longer to have sex...[and] having fewer partners.”
He sees the culture war as nearly over, because “today’s
young people...seem happy with the frankness of the left
and the wholesomeness of the right.” As a result, he
is optimistic about the United States’ social stability,
which he considers to be “in the middle of an
amazing moment of improvement and repair.”

Brooks also broke with many in the conservative
movement when, in late 2003, he came out in favor of same-
sex marriage in his New York Times column. He equated
the idea with traditional conservative values: “We should
insist on gay marriage. We should regard it as scandalous
that two people could claim to love each other and not
wanit to sanctify their love with marriage and fidelity...

It’s going to be up to conservatives to make the important,
moral case for marriage, including gay marriage.”

Regarding abortion, Brooks has advocated for
pro-choice government regulations: abortion should be
legal, with parental consent for minors, during the first four
or five months, and illegal afterward, except in extremely
rare circumstances. (New York Times, April 22, 2002.)

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017534
