BIOLOGY

MEDICINE

An Unlikely Cure Signals
New Hope for Cancer

How “exceptionalresponders’

‘arerevolutionizing treatment

for the deadly desease

BY KAT MCGOWAN

UST LIKE EVERY NEW drug the oncologists at
Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center test-
ed against bladder cancer in the last 20 years,
this one didn’t seem to be doing any good. For-
ty-four people in the study were given everolimus in a
last-ditch attempt to slow down or stop their advanced
cancer. When the researchers analyzed the data, they
could see that the drug wasn’t slowing or stopping
tumor growth. Everolimus seemed to be another bust.
Then there was patient number 45. She joined the
trial with advanced metastatic cancer. Tumors had
invaded deep into her abdomen, clouding her CT scan
with solid grey blotches. She was 73 years old. None of
the standard bladder cancer drugs were working for
her anymore; she had “failed treatment,” in the dismal
lingo of oncologists. She enrolled in the study only
because she happened to be a patient at Sloan-Ketter-
ingin January 2010. In April 2010, her cancer was gone.
This sort of happy surprise is not unheard of

in drug studies. Bodies are fluky, each with its own

idiosyncratic combination of genetic blueprints and

J

environmental inputs. So sometimes a patient will be
cured by a drug that is useless for everyone else. In
the past, these spectacular reactions were written off
as outlier responses that defied explanation—medical
mysteries. Doctors just shrugged their shoulders and
thanked their lucky stars that even though the study
tanked, they did manage to help one person.

But this time was different. Clinical oncologist
David Solit, director of developmental therapeutics
at Sloan-Kettering, saw a new opportunity to explain
what happened by sequencing the whole genome of
the woman’s cancer. Just five years ago, decoding and
analyzing all 3 billion bases of the DNA from a tumor
would’ve been absurdly time-consuming and expen-
sive. Now the sequencing takes as little as a few days.

Poring over the outlier patient’s genetic code, Solit
pinpointed two mutations that made her tumor sensi-
tive to this drug. He found that one of her mutations
shows up in about 8 to 10 percent of other bladder can-
cer patients, meaning that they too might be helped
by everolimus. His success has inspired a whole set of

ILLUSTRATION BY ELLEN WEINSTEIN

36

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015496
