tt

setting for the spiritual work toward that promised in John “...that you love one
another; even as | have loved you, that you also love one another.”

In contrast with what has been described in previous chapters as the
entheogenic drug-induced transitions to a spiritual mind, one is tempted to describe
these Fundamentalists’ states as the amphetamine religions. The Los Angeles
Ram’s Hall of Fame defensive end, on very high doses of amphetamine (125
milligrams compared with the diet dose of 5 milligrams) taken four hours before the
Sunday games, the Baptist minister, Deacon Jones, used his famous and
consciousness annihilating head slap to daze the opposing offensive tackle in order
to gain access to and injure the other team’s quarterback. Before taking the handful
of Dexedrine spansuls, he would tell me, “See you on Tuesday.” Along with the
Deacon’s destructive aggression was the other invariant feature of the actions of
high doses of amphetamine, compulsive stereotypy, the fixity and driven repetition
of over simplified actions and thoughts along with the loss of breadth of vision and
adaptive flexibility. Deacon consistently rushed inside, took the inside lane, in spite
of offensive linemen, who having studied previous game films, being set up to
expect his route. They used this knowledge to take him out of the play. In modern
theological parlance, judgmental rigidity and thinly veiled disapproval take the place
of the more flexibly curious and lovingly humane feelings of the participants in the
evolution in spiritual understanding of today’s /iberal Protestant process religions.
These are the ones that believe that the properties of God evolve along with our
biology, our brains and our growing scientific understanding of ourselves and the
world.

Angry splitting is not just a stimulant drug effect. Recall my experience of the
sudden emergence of a first second wind after a mile or so of my daily ten miles of
running. It was frequently accompanied by inner bursts of obsessive, paranoid
thoughts. Taking five milligrams of amphetamine felt much like the first second
wind. | am full of energy with arrogant feelings of power, mind fixated in grand and
simple ideas that | believe to be absolute and correct. | feel irritably intolerant about

anyone or anything different. It is my virtuous duty to set everyone straight.

146

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013646
