article) and make them come alive for their clientele.
Opportunity

And | use the word clientele to make a final point: innovation in the MOOC world will not just come from educators, but from
any organization that sees the value of massive online and offline courseware. As my own clientele have come to realize,
education in the 21st century is not just something you do before you become an adult but a modality of experience that
empowers you throughout your entire life. No reason for schools to own the entire market for those kinds of experiences.
But | expect the most enterprising schools — especially those with great or underused physical inventory — to partner with
organizations that now have the opportunity to rethink themselves for the education market. In the meantime, it may be time
to reassess the MOOC acronym to make the opportunities more obvious. “Massive Online Offline Communities” seems
more like it. And unlike the online communities of the past, these communities are learning communities, driven by the new
lifelong modality of transformative experience. Expect a land grab for branding and positioning. The disruption in education
is just beginning, and the players are just becoming visible.

Back to top
Women and Children — Full text articles

Indian Police Arrest Suspects in Two Gang Rapes
Sean Mclain and Khushita Vasan — Wall Street Journal

Indian police Sunday were holding 10 men suspected of involvement in two highly publicized gang-rape cases—one in
urban Mumbai, the other in rural Jnarkhand state—highlighting India's struggles with sexual violence.

In Jharkhand in eastern India, police said they had detained five suspects in connection with the rape of a policewoman by a
group of men who had set up a roadblock on a highway. The attack occurred Thursday, but wasn't reported to police until
Friday, they said.

Five other men were in custody Sunday in the Mumbai case, in which a 22-year-old magazine intern taking photographs of
dilapidated buildings was assaulted Thursday in an abandoned textile mill in the city, police said.

The attacks come as the trial of five people accused in the December gang rape and murder of a 23-year-old student ona
Delhi bus entered its final phase. That crime sparked nationwide demonstrations and prompted the government to
introduce harsher penalties for crimes against women.

Protesters took to the streets of Mumbai on Friday to decry the assault on the magazine intern in a city that has a reputation
as arelatively safe place for women. In 2012, the incidence of rape in the Western Indian metropolis was about half the

national rate, according to the National Crime Records Bureau.

I've always felt much safer in Mumbai compared to other Indian cities, said Sanika Prabhu, a television producer from
Mumbai. After this incident, | feel like | don't recognize this city anymore.

Mumbai police said the magazine intern was with a 21-year-old male companion when she was attacked Thursday. The
assailants tied his hands with his belt and raped the woman from 5:30 p.m. to 7 p.m., an official at N.M. Joshi police station
said. Medical tests confirmed the rape, he said.

Under Indian law, rape victims cannot be named in media accounts.

There were 24,915 reported rapes in India in 2012, according to the National Crime Records Bureau, including 233 in
Mumbai. The victims in almost half the Mumbai cases were between 14 and 18 years old.

Activists say the number of rapes is much higher, as many go unreported. India also has a poor record on convictions, with
only around a quarter of alleged rapists convicted in 2010.

In Jharkhand, police said the rape of the police constable occurred at around 1:30 a.m. on Thursday, as she and her

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019435
