before a Trump-size crowd, was a political flatliner. It was a full-on Trump speech, ninety
minutes of rambling and improvisation—the wall would be built (now it was a see-
through wall), Russian interference in the U.S. election was a hoax, he would fire anybody
on his cabinet who supported Moore. But, while his base turned out en masse, still drawn
to Trump the novelty, his cheerleading for Luther Strange drew at best a muted response.
As the crowd became restless, the event threatened to become a hopeless embarrassment.

Reading his audience and desperate to find a way out, Trump suddenly threw out a line
about Colin Kaepernick taking to his knee while the national anthem played at a National
Football League game. The line got a standing ovation. The president thereupon promptly
abandoned Luther Strange for the rest of the speech. Likewise, for the next week he
continued to whip the NFL. Pay no attention to Strange’s resounding defeat five days after
the event in Huntsville. Ignore the size and scale of Trump’s rejection and the Moore-
Bannon triumph, with its hint of new disruptions to come. Now Trump had a new topic,
and a winning one: the Knee.

OOK Ok

The fundamental premise of nearly everybody who joined the Trump White House was,
This can work. We can help make this work. Now, only three-quarters of the way through
just the first year of Trump’s term, there was literally not one member of the senior staff
who could any longer be confident of that premise. Arguably—and on many days
indubitably—most members of the senior staff believed that the sole upside of being part
of the Trump White House was to help prevent worse from happening.

In early October, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson’s fate was sealed—if his obvious
ambivalence toward the president had not already sealed it—by the revelation that he had
called the president “a fucking moron.”

This—insulting Donald Trump’s intelligence—was both the thing you could not do and
the thing—drawing there-but-for-the-grace-of-God guffaws across the senior staff—that
everybody was guilty of. Everyone, in his or her own way, struggled to express the baldly
obvious fact that the president did not know enough, did not know what he didn’t know,
did not particularly care, and, to boot, was confident if not serene in his unquestioned
certitudes. There was now a fair amount of back-of-the-classroom giggling about who had
called Trump what. For Steve Mnuchin and Reince Priebus, he was an “idiot.” For Gary
Cohn, he was “dumb as shit.” For H. R. McMaster he was a “dope.” The list went on.

Tillerson would merely become yet another example of a subordinate who believed
that his own abilities could somehow compensate for Trump’s failings.

Aligned with Tillerson were the three generals, Mattis, McMasters, and Kelly, each
seeing themselves as representing maturity, stability, and restraint. And each, of course,
was resented by Trump for it. The suggestion that any or all of these men might be more
focused and even tempered than Trump himself was cause for sulking and tantrums on the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020114
