important ways. Both agencies encourage USS. businesses
to seek the assistance of US embassies when they are con-
fronted with bribe solicitations or other corruption-related
issues overseas.”?

The Department of Commerce offers a num-
ber of important resources for businesses, including the
International Trade Administration’s United States and
Foreign Commercial Service (Commercial Service). The
Commercial Service has export and industry specialists
located in over 100 US. cities and 70 countries who are
available to provide counseling and other assistance to US.
businesses, particularly small and medium-sized companies,
regarding exporting their products and services. Among
other things, these specialists can help a U.S. company con-
duct due diligence when choosing business partners or agents
overseas. The International Company Profile Program, for
instance, can be part of a US. business’ evaluation of poten-
tial overseas business partners. Businesses may contact the
Commercial Service through its website, http://export.gov/
eac/, or directly at its domestic and foreign offices.”

Additionally, che Department of Commerce’s Office
of the General Counsel maintains a website, http://www.
commerce.gov/os/oge/transparency-and-anti-bribery-
initiatives, that contains recent articles and speeches, links
to translations of the FCPA, a catalogue of anti-corruption
resources, and a list of international conventions and ini-
tiatives. The Trade Compliance Center in the Department
of Commerce’s International Trade Administration hosts
a website with anti-bribery resources, http://tcc.export.
gov/Bribery. This website contains an online form through
which U.S. companies can report allegations of foreign
bribery by foreign competitors in international business
transactions.”° The Department of Commerce also pro-
vides information to companies through a number of USS.
and international publications designed to assist firms in
complying with anti-corruption laws. For example, the
Department of Commerce has included a new anti-corrup-
tion section in its Country Commercial Guides, prepared
by market experts at U.S. embassies worldwide, that contains
information on market conditions for more than 100 coun-

tries, including information on the FCPA for exporters.”

Introduction

The Department of Commerce has also published a guide,
Business Ethics: A Manual for Managing a Responsible
Business Enterprise in Emerging Market Economies, which
contains information about corporate compliance pro-
grams for businesses involved in international trade.”

The Departments of Commerce and State also pro-
vide advocacy support, when determined to be in the
national interest, for U.S. companies bidding for foreign
government contracts. The Department of Commerce’s
Advocacy Center, for example, supports US. businesses
competing against foreign companies for international con-
tracts, such as by arranging for the delivery of an advocacy
message by US. government officials or assisting with unan-
ticipated problems such as suspected bribery by a competi-
tor.” The Department of State’s Bureau of Economic and
Business Affairs (specifically, its Office of Commercial and
Business Affairs) similarly assists U.S. firms doing business
overseas by providing advocacy on behalf of US. businesses
and identifying risk areas for U.S. businesses; more infor-
mation is available on its website, http://www.state.gov/e/
eb/cba/. Also, the Department of State’s economic officers
serving overseas provide commercial advocacy and support
for U.S. companies at the many overseas diplomatic posts
where the Commercial Service is not represented.

The Department of State promotes U.S. government
interests in addressing corruption internationally through
country-to-country diplomatic engagement; development
of and follow-through on international commitments relat-
ing to corruption; promotion of high-level political engage-
ment (e.g. the G20 Anticorruption Action Plan); public
outreach in foreign countries; and support for building
the capacity of foreign partners to combat corruption. In
fiscal year 2009, the U.S. government provided more than
$1 billion for anti-corruption and related good governance

assistance abroad.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022508

