We were paying them as homo habilis two million years ago. The cost went up, but
the value of innovation just as much, when homo erectus arrived a little later. Both
rose again with the emergence of Ancestral Eve 200,000 years ago. Adaptation is the
human specialty. Its what gets us through the day. Innovation is adaptation that
happens to become new norms. It started leaving a record of embodied growth
about 50,000 years ago. That doubled pace about 400 years ago. The costs of being
human are the same failure rates and learning curves whether the payoff in
adaptation/innovation means faster gain in good times or slower decline in bad
ones. We row ata Steady stroke, and gain against the shoreline when our new ideas

are particularly good ones and the current is right.

My idea, whether or not Mill’s, is that these costs might be about the same for
breakthroughs or meta-ideas or paradigm shifts as for modest upgrades, or even for
holding even in a world of daily surprises. Ideas trade in an inefficient market. Cost
is dissociated from value, and cause is desynchronized from effect, by the vagaries of

genius and the whim of circumstance.

Now the tougher puzzle. How can consumption keep up with capital even in
accelerations? That’s what Mill described, and that’s what happens. Can Achilles
catch the tortoise even when the tortoise speeds up? Put your money on Achilles.
Here it is Gunnar Myradal to the rescue. The apparent problem is that ex ante
depreciation investment is never enough in acceleration. But the charts and tables
show unanswerably that ex post depreciation investment is. We sow the first, but
reap the second. Plowback of depreciation investment is up to us. Growth is
whatever is added by genius or happenstance. The difference between market value
and cost is sometimes luck, which neither loses nor gains in the long run, but
sometimes imagination. Mother Nature and Gunnar Myrdal simultaneously say
“Shazam”, and convert new ideas into embodied or disembodied growth without

surcharge for the novelty.

Chapter 4 Mill’s Idea 1/11/16 10

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011001
