Morgan Stanley | sesearcs NORTH AMERICA INSIGHT ~~

known to, professionals in other Morgan Stanley business areas, including investment banking personnel.

Morgan Stanley Research personnel may participate in company events such as site visits and are generally prohibited from accepting payment by the company of associated expenses unless

pre-approved by authorized members of Research management.
Morgan Stanley may make investment decisions that are inconsistent with the recommendations or views in this report.

To our readers based in Taiwan or trading in Taiwan securities/instruments: Information on securities/instruments that trade in Taiwan is distributed by Morgan Stanley Taiwan Limited (‘MSTL’).
Such information is for your reference only. The reader should independently evaluate the investment risks and is solely responsible for their investment decisions. Morgan Stanley Research
may not be distributed to the public media or quoted or used by the public media without the express written consent of Morgan Stanley. Any non-customer reader within the scope of Article

7-1of the Taiwan Stock Exchange Recommendation Regulations accessing and/or receiving Morgan Stanley Research is not permitted to provide Morgan Stanley Research to any third party

(including but not limited to related parties, affiliated companies and any other third parties) or engage in any activities regarding Morgan Stanley Research which may create or give the
appearance of creating a conflict of interest. Information on securities/instruments that do not trade in Taiwan is for informational purposes only and is not to be construedas a recommendation

or a solicitation to trade in such securities/instruments. MSTL may not execute transactions for clients in these securities/instruments.

Morgan Stanley is not incorporated under PRC law and the research in relation to this report is conducted outside the PRC. Morgan Stanley Research does not constitute an offer to sell or

the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities in the PRC. PRC investors shall have the relevant qualifications to invest in such securities and shall be responsible for obtaining all relevant
approvals, licenses, verifications and/or registrations from the relevant governmental authorities themselves. Neither this report nor any part of it is intended as, or shall constitute, provision

of any consultancy or advisory service of securities investment as defined under PRC law. Such information is provided for your reference only.

Morgan Stanley Research is disseminated in Brazil by Morgan Stanley C.T.V.M. S.A.; in Mexico by Morgan Stanley México, Casa de Bolsa, S.A. de CV which is regulated by Comision Nacional
Bancaria y de Valores. Paseo de los Tamarindos 90, Torre 1, Col. Bosques de las Lomas Floor 29, 05120 Mexico City; in Japan by Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co.,Ltd. and, for Commodities
related research reports only, Morgan Stanley Capital Group Japan Co., Ltd; in Hong Kong by Morgan Stanley Asia Limited (which accepts responsibility for its contents) and by Morgan Stanley
Asia International Limited, Hong Kong Branch; in Singapore by Morgan Stanley Asia (Singapore) Pte. (Registration number 199206298Z) and/or Morgan Stanley Asia (Singapore) Securities Pte
Ltd (Registration number 200008434H), regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore (which accepts Legal responsibility for its contents and should be contacted with respect to any
matters arising from, or in connection with, Morgan Stanley Research) and by Morgan Stanley Asia International Limited, Singapore Branch (Registration number T1IFCO207F); in Australia to
“wholesale clients within the meaning of the Australian Corporations Act by Morgan Stanley Australia Limited A.B.N. 67 003 734576, holder of Australian financial services license No. 233742,
which accepts responsibility for its contents; in Australia to wholesale clients and retail clients within the meaning of the Australian Corporations Act by Morgan Stanley Wealth Management
Australia Pty Ltd (ABN. 19 009 145.555, holder of Australian financial services license No. 240813, which accepts responsibility for its contents; in Korea by Morgan Stanley & Co International
plc, Seoul Branch; in India by Morgan Stanley India Company Private Limited; in Indonesia by PT. Morgan Stanley Sekuritas Indonesia; in Canada by Morgan Stanley Canada Limited, which has
approved of and takes responsibility for its contents in Canada; in Germany by Morgan Stanley Bank AG, Frankfurt am Main and Morgan Stanley Private Wealth Management Limited, Niederlas-
sung Deutschland, regulated by Bundesanstalt fuer Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (BaFin); in Spain by Morgan Stanley, S.V., S.A, a Morgan Stanley group company, which is supervised by the

Spanish Securities Markets Commission (CNMV) and states that Morgan Stanley Research has been written and distributed in accordance with the rules of conduct applicable to financial

research as established under Spanish regulations; in the US by Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, which accepts responsibility for its contents. Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc, authorized by
the Prudential Regulatory Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority andthe Prudential Regulatory Authority, disseminates inthe UK research that it has prepared, andapproves
solely for the purposes of section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, research which has been prepared by any of its affiliates. RMB Morgan Stanley Proprietary Limited is a
member of the JSE Limited and regulated by the Financial Services Board in South Africa. RMB Morgan Stanley Proprietary Limited is a joint venture owned equally by Morgan Stanley Interna-
tional Holdings Inc. and RMB Investment Advisory (Proprietary) Limited, which is wholly owned by FirstRand Limited. The information in Morgan Stanley Research is being disseminated by

Morgan Stanley Saudi Arabia, regulated by the Capital Market Authority in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia , and is directed at Sophisticated investors only.

The information in Morgan Stanley Research is being communicated by Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc (DIFC Branch), regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority (the DFSA),

and is directed at Professional Clients only, as defined by the DFSA. The financial products or financial services to which this research relates will only be made available to a customer who

we are satisfied meets the regulatory criteria to be a Professional Client.

The information in Morgan Stanley Research is being communicated by Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc (QFC Branch), regulated by the Qatar Financial Centre Regulatory Authority
(the QFCRA), and is directed at business customers and market counterparties only and is not intended for Retail Customers as defined by the QFCRA.

As required by the Capital Markets Board of Turkey, investment information, comments and recommendations stated here, are not within the scope of investment advisory activity. Investment
advisory service is provided exclusively to persons based on their risk and income preferences by the authorized firms. Comments and recommendations stated here are generalin nature. These
opinions may not fit to your financial status, risk and return preferences. For this reason, to make an investment decision by relying solely to this information stated here may not bring about

outcomes that fit your expectations.

The trademarks and service marks contained in Morgan Stanley Research are the property of their respective owners. Third-party data providers make no warranties or representations relating
to the accuracy, completeness, or timeliness of the data they provide and shall not have liability for any damages relating to such data. The Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS) was
developed by and is the exclusive property of MSCI and S&P.

Morgan Stanley Research, or any portion thereof may not be reprinted, sold or redistributed without the written consent of Morgan Stanley.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025586
