support him. Do we want to break the genteel precedents of two parties running their ceremonious and
seemingly illogical nominating process to select a candidate? (Why do Iowa and New Hampshire play
such outsized roles? What kind of small-d democratic process relies on superdelegates?) The system
failed in 2016, with both parties producing terribly flawed candidates in a race to the bottom. We need to

build a back-up plan in the event the system fails again.

It's possible, of course, that we won’t need a third-party candidate. Trump could decide not to run for
whatever reason. The Democrats could nominate a winning 2020 candidate. I am not willing to take

those bets.

The ideal candidate for a new third party is someone who is widely perceived to be that rare combination
of both good and great. We are looking for a proven leader of men and women, someone with clear,
democratic — and moral — values that reflect the best of America, not our worst. We know people like this

on the national stage now.

As a thought experiment, consider the possibilities of a ticket outside the partisan lanes and imagine the
chemistry of radical combinations: Biden/Romney? Bill Gates/Hogan? Bloomberg/Haley? Howard

Schultz/Bob Corker? Sandberg/Kasich?

As we have discussed narrow path to electing the first president outside the two major party primary
system in 168 years is more navigable than most think. Heading into 2020, converging trends in
American’s demands for a third party (a historic high of 61%), disapproval of Donald Trump holding
steady above 50%, and the increasingly leftward drift of the Democratic Party suggest that electorate may
be susceptible to merits of a new centrist party. Cynics will say that the structural impediments of ballot
and presidential debate access, the overwhelming advantages of legacy parties’ fundraising and voter
turn-out operations preordain failure, but they’re wrong; the legal and logistical hurdles are amenable to a
combination of lawyering and resources. The bigger, more consequential factors come in terms of
candidate quality and policy. I believe a candidate with five specific characteristics including a unique —

and purposefully non-specific - policy agenda could limbo a win.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026299
