Health: Not Tremendously Prescriptive

Vision 2030 a start but Needs Transparent Proposals

The Saudi government’s Vision 2030 document calls for an improvement in healthcare
in Saudi Arabia. The private healthcare sector has some role to play; the National
Transformation Plan (NTP) targets the private sector to be responsible for funding 35%
of healthcare spend in 2020, up from 25% today. How it intends to do this is uncertain.
We believe the incumbent private hospital operators, including listed companies (Al
Hammadi, Care, Dallah, MEAHCO and Mouwasat) should be beneficiaries of increased
private sector funding, although increased investment would be needed to meet growth
in demand longer-term.

Improve public facilities, work towards privatisation

The government wants to step back from financing and providing healthcare and adopt
an oversight and regulatory role. Firstly the government wants to improve the quality of
care offered in the public sector, with the eventual aim of working towards privatisation
of public assets and healthcare provision. This implies no privatisations short-term.

Near-term: Management contracts for public hospitals

In the near-term the government could seek to improve healthcare provision in the
public system by using private sector expertise, through, e.g. contracting management
of public facilities to the private sector. Individual such contracts are unlikely to
transform company earnings, and the small size of existing Saudi hospital groups limits
the depth of management available to capture large contracts, in our view.

Long-term: insurance coverage up to 31m from 10.5m

In the long-term a widespread adoption of private health insurance is likely to raise
volumes, spurring an increase in private healthcare capacity, either from organic
investment or participation in privatisations. In Saudi currently, 10.5m/31m people have
insurance. We assume a more universal scheme would offer lower pricing than that
today, and listed incumbents would need to make a cultural shift towards addressing
this market. Such a market could attract new competitors, domestic or foreign.

Type of insurance system and reimbursement uncertain

We believe reimbursement levels would need to be known before privatisations can
occur so bidders can budget and estimate their return on capital. It is still uncertain
whether the government would seek to introduce insurance through the incumbent
private operators (Bupa Arabia, Medgulf and Tawuniya) or set up its own insurance
company e.g. an Abu Dhabi-style Daman. Nor whether it would subsidise premiums or
simply force the private sector to employ more Saudis.

Government needs to improve private sector relations

At present the government has not paid private hospitals for the treatment of public
patients referred to them for over a year. Until the relationship improves, engaging with
the private sector could be difficult.

Healthcare implications of National Transformation Plan

The Saudi government’s Vision 2030 document calls for an improvement in healthcare
in Saudi Arabia. The private healthcare sector is likely to be a beneficiary both in the
short-term and long-term. In the short-term the National Transformation Plan (NTP)
targets the private sector to be responsible for funding 35% of healthcare spend in
2020, up from 25% today. In the longer-term, the Saudi government wants to remove
itself from directly providing and financing healthcare, instead focussing on public
health and the regulation of the healthcare sector. Raising private sector funding
thresholds to 35% appears possible if a number of measures are used, e.g. more
rigorous enforcement of requirement that Saudis working in private sector hold
insurance could increase penetration by 6% alone. The quality targets set for the public
sector do not appear unduly onerous in theory, but execution remains key.

OS Merrill Lynch GEMs Paper #26|30June 2016 51

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016161
