o account the specific investment o

that statements regarding future prospects may not be realized. Any decision to purchase or subscribe for securities in any o

security or the information in the prospectus or ot!
Securities and other financial instruments discussed in this report, or recommended, o
any insured depository institution (including, Bank o

deposits or other obligations o
among others, market risk, coun

instruments may be difficult to value or sell and rel
income from such securities and other financial instruments, if any, may fluctuate an
ment. Past performance is not necessarily a guide to

ose their entire principal inves
This report may contain a short-

reflects both a longer term total
be more or less positive than as
BofA Merrill Lynch is aware that

e
Foreign currency rates o

bq

ime, hold a
BofA Merrill
Ww
me
recipient of this report.

In the event that the recipient received this report pursuant to a contract

therewith MLPF&S may be deemed

transactions, including transactions i

the issuer. Short-term trading ide
y rating.

gor restricting shortselling” in many j

instrument

Copyright and General Information regarding Research Reports:

Copyright 2016 Bank of America Cor

retransmitted or disclosed, in whole
simultaneously to internal

or in part, or in any form or manner, without
and client websites and other portals by BofA

review of this research report consti
(including any investmen

BofA Merrill Lynch Global
hould consult their ow
ny BofA Merrill Lynch en
n public information. Fac

pa |

ities. None of MLPF&S, any of i
Research policy prohibits rese
containing such rating, recom
ormation relating to the tax s

The information herein (o

utes your agreement not to redistribute, retransmi
recommendations, estimates or price targets) without
Materials prepared by BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research personnel are based on
information known to, professionals in other business areas of BofA Merrill Lynch, including investment banking personnel. BofA Merrill
Research and certain business groups. As a resul
research reports. To the extent this report discusses any legal proceeding or issue

, BofA

her offering document issued in connec

K. regulatory regime, including the Financial Services Scheme, do not a
errill Lynch Global Research policies relating to conflicts of interest are described at http://go.bofa.com/coi.
ments linked to securities that may have been recommended in this report. ML

public i

errill
s, it has not been prepared as nor is it intended to express any legal conclusion, opinion or advice. Investors

mendation or investment thesis.

plaintifi
e to any such

al instrument or derivative is suitab

id tha

as and recommendations are dif
relative to other stocks within i

ation of the ideas expressed in this report may depend upon an investor's abi

urisdictions. Investors are urged

s discussed in this report.

poration. All rights reserved. iQmethod, iQmethod 2.0, iQprofile, iQtoolkit, iQworks are service marks of Ban
iQcustom®, iQdatabase® are registered service marks of Bank of America Corporation. This research report is prepared for the use of BofA Merri
he express written consent of BofA Merrill Lynch. BofA Merri
errill Lynch and are not publicly-available materials. Any unauthorized use or di
, or disclose to others the contents, opinions, co
first obtaining expressed permission from an authorized officer of BofA Merrill Lynch.
nformation. Facts and views presented in this material

Lynch does not disclose certain clien

erent fi
s Coverage Cluster. Short-term trading ideas and recommendations may

pinion expressed herein constitutes an offer or a solicitation of an offer to transact in any securities or o

fering must be based solely

ion with such offering, and not on this report.
fered or sold by Merrill Lynch, are not
America, N.A}. Investments in general anc, derivatives, in particular, involve numerous risks, including,
erparty default risk and liquidity risk. No security, financi
iable information about the value or

e for all investors. In some c

risks related to the security or financial instrument may be difficu
price or value of such securities and instruments may rise or fal
uture performance. Levels and basis for taxation may change.
erm trading idea or recommendation, which highlights a specific near-term catalyst or even
short-term price impact on the equity securities o
return expectation and attractiveness for investmen
ock's fundamental equi
he implemen
action may be limited by regulations prohibitin
ecuting any short idea contained in this report.
exchange may adversely affect
including ADRs, effectively assume currency risk.
UK Readers: The protections provided by the U.
located outside of the United Kingdom. BofA
LPF&S or one of its affiliates is a regular issuer of traded financial instru
rading position (long or short) in the securities and financial
Lynch, through business units other than Bo
ith, and reach different conclusions from, the information presented in
hods of the persons who prepared them, and BofA

impacting the issuer or the
rom and do not affect a stoc

ity to short securities or ot

o seek advice regarding the applicability of such regula
he value, price or income of any security or financial instrument mentioned in this report. Inves

pply in general to business coordinated by BofA Merrill

‘A Merrill Lynch Global Research, may have issued and may in the future issue trading ideas or recommenda
his report. Such ideas or recommendations reflect the different time
errill Lynch is under no obligation to ensure that such other trading ideas or recommendations are brought

has contr

I Lynch cl

have not

Lynch has establ

insured by the Federal Deposi

of America Corpora

nclusion, or information con

General Investment Related Disclosures:

Taiwan Readers: Neither the information nor any |
this report may be used or reproduced or quoted in any manner whatsoever in Taiwan by t
This research report provides general information only. Neither the information nor any op
other financial instrument or any derivative related
personal investment advice and it does not take in
financial advice regarding the appropriateness of investing in financial instruments and

her financial instrument. No part of

he press or any other person without the express written consent of BofA Merrill Lynch.

inion expressed constitutes an offer or an invitation to make an offer, to buy or sell any securities or
to such securities or instruments (e.g, options, futures, warrants, and contracts for differences}. This report is not intended to provide
bjectives, financial situation and the particular needs of any specific
implementing investment strategies discussed or recommended in this report and should understand

person. Investors should seek

on existing public information on such
Insurance Corporation and are not
ases, securities and other financial

t to obtain. Investors should note that
and, in some cases, investors may

market that is anticipated to have a
's fundamental equity rating, which

instruments and that such
ions prior to

her financia

ors in such securities and instruments,

Lynch entities

PF&S or one of its affiliates may, at any

jons that are inconsistent

rames, assumptions, views and analytical

‘o the attention of any

between the recipient and MLPF&S for the provision of research services for a separate fee, and in connection
o be acting as an investment adviser, such status relates, if at all, solely to the person with whom MLPF&S
beyond the delivery of this report (unless otherwise agreed specifically in

acted directly and does not extend

writing by MLPF&S). MLPF&S is and continues to act solely as a broker-dealer in connection with the execution of any
nany securities mentioned in this report.

jon. iQanalytics®,
lients and may not be redistributed,

Lynch Global Research reports are distributed

sclosure is prohibited. Receipt and
ained in this report

been reviewed by, and may not reflect
ished information barriers between

t relationships with, or compensation received from, such issuers in

s

a s, defendants, co-defendants or co-plaintiffs wi
fo proceedings have not been reviewed by, discussed with, and may not reflect
professionals in other business areas of BofA Merrill Lynch in connection with the legal proceedings or matters relevant to such proceedings.

This report has been prepared independently of any issuer of securities mentioned herein and not in connection with any proposed offering of securities or as agent of any issuer of any
s affiliates or their research analysts has any authority whatsoever to make any representation or warranty on behalf of the issuer(s). Bo
arch personnel from disclosing a recommendation, investment rating, or investment thesis for review by an issuer prior to the publication of a research

atus of financial instruments discussed herein is not intended to provide tax advice or to be used by anyone to provide tax advice.
ax advice based on their particular circumstances from an independent tax professional.
her than disclosure information relating to BofA Merrill Lynch and its affiliates) was obtained from various sources and we do not guarantee its accuracy. This report

egal advisers as to issues of law relating to the subject matter of this report. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research personnel’s knowledge of legal proceedings in which
ity and/or its directors, officers and employees may be
5 and views presented in this material that rela

h or involving issuers mentioned in this report is based

information known to,

A Merrill Lynch

nvestors are urged to

may contain links to third-party websites. BofA Merrill Lynch is not responsible for the content of any third-party website or any linked content contained in a third-party website. Content

contained on such third-party websi
any affiliation with BofA Merrill Lync
submitting any personal in

ormation to them. BofA

es is not part o

Certain outstanding reports may contain discussions and/or investment opinions relating to securities, financial instruments and/or issuers that are no longer curren

recent research report rela

In some cases, an issuer may be classified as Restric

its security and/or financia

ing to an issuer prior to making an investment decision.
ed or may be Under Review or Extended Review. In each case, investors should consider any investment opinion
instruments) to be suspended or withdrawn and should not rely on the analyses and investment opinion(s) pertaining to such issuer (or i

this report and is not incorporated by reference into this report. The inclusion of a link in this report does not imply any endorsement by or
h. Access to any third-party website is at your own risk, and you should always review the terms and privacy policies at third-party websi
errill Lynch is not responsible for such terms and privacy policies and expressly disclaims any liability for them.

es before
. Always refer to the most

relating to such issuer (or
s securities and/or

financial instruments) nor should the analyses or opinion(s) be considered a solicitation of any kind. Sales persons and financial advisors affiliated with MLPF&S or any of its affiliates may not

solicit purchases of securities or fina

ncial instrumen

s that are Restricted or Under Review and may only solicit securities under Extended Review in accordance with

irm policies.

Neither BofA Merrill Lynch nor any officer or employee of BofA Merrill Lynch accepts any liability whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential damages or losses arising from any use of

this report or its contents.

Bankof America
Merrill Lynch

Global Cross Asset Strategy - Year Ahead | 30 November 2016

27

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014458
