enforceability of existing corporate governance rules and a lack
of accountability. They call into question the true independence
of the boards of Korean conglomerates and the ability of outside
directors to effectively oversee management and protect all
shareholders’ interests.

Recent research on Korean-listed companies shows strong
social ties between independent directors and management of
Korean conglomerates. While 87% of boards are in theory
independent, only 62% are when one considers social ties.* The
composition of Korean boards also poses concern as the
percentage of directors with business or management
backgrounds has decreased from 45.2% in 2004 to 28.4% in
2011.° This, while the number of former public officials has
sharply increased from 2.7% in 2004 to 8.9% in 2011.
Interestingly, in Korea's boardrooms, the inclusion of professors
and lawyers as independent directors has become common. The
need for stronger
independent oversight
and monitoring of
management is especially
important for Korean
chaebols as they
concentrate the
managerial power into
the board’s chairman, a
member of the founding
family. The chairman’s
control over all
subsidiaries of the
conglomerate through
the management council and appointment of management of
all affiliated firms has been a serious concern for minority
shareholders seeking more accountability and managerial
transparency.

Protecting Shareholder Interests

At the core of Korea’s governance challenges lies a structural
problem at the chaebol: the complex system of cross-
shareholdings. On average, the founding family of Korean
conglomerates owns about 10% of the parent company’s shares,
while other listed subsidiaries own more than 30%.!° The
founding family is a shareholder in the other chaebol
subsidiaries, and the subsidiaries reciprocate by owning shares
in the other companies. The circular ownership structure has
been of investor concern as it provides a framework for related
party transactions and potential conflict between family
shareholders and external shareholders. For many, these
concerns have been factored into what has been called for over
a decade the “Korean discount.”

With the promise of sweeping governance reform by the new
President Moon Jae-In, foreign investors are looking today for
better protection of minority shareholder rights and stronger
constraints on chaebol businesses. On the politico-economic
reform agenda are topics such as: 1) reforming the Korean
Commercial Code by mandating separate elections for audit

“With the adoption of a Stewardship Code,
our expectations are that shareholders in
Korean equities, and especially in chaebols,
will use their voice more actively to
promote positive governance change and
long-term shareholder value creation.”

committee members, 2) allowing shareholders of parent
companies to sue directors of subsidiary firms, 3) lowering
eligibility thresholds for filing representative lawsuits, 4)
regulating compensation for controlling shareholders and
management, as well as 5) introducing mandatory electronic
and cumulative voting.!!

One of the most ambitious goals includes proposed amendments
to Korea’s Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act, introducing
constraints on chaebol businesses and banning all existing
circular ownership structures of chaebols within three years.”

The calls for big governance reform in Korea were first publicly
voiced by chaebols’ shareholders themselves. In 2015, at
Hyundai Motor’s annual general meeting, shareholders openly
confronted management about the controversial land deal and
proposed a new governance committee to strengthen oversight
and accountability. In an unprecedented fashion, their
shareholder action
prompted the company
to set up a separate
Corporate Governance
and Communication
Committee consisting
of four independent
directors, and to engage
in shareholder outreach.
In 2016, Hyundai Motor
officially announced its
new “Corporate
Governance Charter” in
an effort to enhance
transparent business management and to promote shareholder
rights.!° Similarly, in November 2016, Samsung announced a
“Comprehensive Roadmap to Enhance Long-term Shareholder
Value Creation,” committing to improve governance by
increasing its board’s independence, as well as the diversity and
breadth of experience of its directors.

Changing Korea’s Business Culture

The expected governance reform in Korea is an opportunity not
only to disentangle politics from business, but also to create
better institutional protection for all shareholders. It also serves
as an opportunity to change the culture of investing in the
country.

In February, Korea's Financial Services Commission introduced
the country’s first Stewardship Code, encouraging big investors
like pension plans and asset managers to actively engage with
investee companies and to monitor their management decisions.
This trend towards investor stewardship and active ownership
echoes the progress already made in other Asian markets such
as Japan, Hong Kong, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, and
Thailand. With the adoption of a Stewardship Code, our
expectations are that shareholders in Korean equities, and
especially in chaebols, will use their voice more actively to
promote positive governance change and long-term shareholder
value creation. @

GLOBAL FORESIGHT THIRD QUARTER 2017

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012093

15
