46 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

nothing; no wind chill, nothing. The air was so hot the wind carried no
heat from my hand. When I imagine hot weather it always brings back
this memory. It’s my conscious experience of the world.

Humans experience the world through a vivid lens we call
consciousness. It allows us to think about the world as we watch it and
plan actions. But, it also summons associated memories, something
scientists call ‘qualia. Most writers describe consciousness as an internal
dialogue with themselves and see it as a consequence of human language.
That's probably because most writers are linguists. Non-linguists, perhaps
even dyslexic engineers like me, experience consciousness as more of a
visual dialogue.

It’s hard to pin down consciousness as the difference between
humans and computers. Computers do have something that resembles
consciousness; they have watchdog functions, they plan and anticipate
actions and are aware of their own existence. But they don’t understand
or make free choices based on this consciousness. It is an entirely
mechanistic affair. A computer might know its CPU is overheating and
send a notification message to the administrator, but it does not really
appreciate what this means. It does not have our sensation of a near death
experience. This self-awareness is the ‘hard question of consciousness.
Why, despite the computer knowing it is overheating, does this not
translate into the intense experience we have? Philosophers, such as
Daniel Dennett, think this lack of consciousness is only a matter of time;
once computers live long enough and have sufficient internal complexity
they will begin to experience the world the way we do. We are nothing
special.

The problem with consciousness is it does not seem to have any
externally discernible effect. Anesthetics can take it away and brain
scanners can see that it has been switched off, but what is it for? I think it
comes hand in hand with our faculty of creativity. Consciousness allows
us to shape the world — not the other way round.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015736
