A more complicated example would be facials. As a sex-crazy nympho dreamgirl, I am
supposed to love all facials all the time, to which I say: Bah. I'm occasionally into
degradation scenes, and facials feel really degrading to me, so there are circumstances in
which a guy can come on my face and it'll be hot -- but those circumstances are rare. I've
got to really respect him and really trust him, and I've got to be really turned on and
excited about whatever scene we're playing out. And if a guy were to give me a facial
without clearing it with me at some point ahead of time? Serious boundary violation. Not
cool.

Have I destroyed your image of me as your sex-crazy nympho dreamgirl? Good.

I think that people of all genders receive a lot of unconscious training about how we can
damage ourselves in exchange for the attention of the opposite sex. By writing about my
own experience, I don't mean to discount the experiences of others. I get that many guys
feel locked into acting confident and dominant, and that lots of guys hate that role as
much as I hate my Sexy Dreamgirl Shell. I get that many women genuinely enjoy
reclaiming the Sexy Dreamgirl image, and making it their own; hell, I do it myself
sometimes. (Yes, I do it myself sometimes. Sex is complicated.)

People of all genders have a hard time figuring out what turns them on. Authenticity is
hard -- and sexual authenticity gets harder when you're feeling low, or you really like
someone and really want that person to like you, or when you feel bombarded with
messages about how you've got to compete in a harsh sexual marketplace. I believe
that one of the best ways to authenticity is to seek understanding of the pressures on
everyone, and to grasp that everyone's got their own nightmare of the Sexy Dreamgirl
Shell.

te OK ok
This can be found on the Internet at:

http://clarissethorn.com/blog/2011/05/27/im-not-your-sex-crazy-nympho-dreamgirl/

BOUNDARIES:

[storytime] Orgasms Aren't My Favorite Part Of Sex, and My Chastity
Urge
These two articles were both written and published at OffOQurChests.com after I
published A Unified Theory of Orgasm. The first was a followup to A Unified Theory

of Orgasm, and the second wasn't, but when I reviewed the two articles later, I
concluded that they deal with fundamentally the same issues and belong together.

Interestingly, when I posted this to my blog, most of the comments didn't come from
women, they came from men who agreed that orgasms aren't their favorite part of sex,
either.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018514
