which point, at Kushner’s direction, the initial explanation of Comey’s firing became that
the president had acted solely on their recommendation. Spicer was forced to deliver this
unlikely rationale, as was the vice president. But this pretense unraveled almost
immediately, not least because most everyone in the West Wing, wanting nothing to do
with the decision to fire Comey, was helping to unravel tt.

The president, along with his family, stood on one side of the White House divide,
while the staff—mouths agape, disbelieving and speechless—stood on the other.

But the president seemed also to want it known that he, aroused and dangerous,
personally took down Comey. Forget Rosenstein and Sessions, it was personal. It was a
powerful president and a vengeful one, in every way galled and affronted by those in
pursuit of him, and determined to protect his family, who were in turn determined to have
him protect them.

“The daughter will take down the father,” said Bannon, in a Shakespearian mood.

Within the West Wing there was much replaying of alternative scenarios. If you wanted
to get rid of Comey, there were surely politic ways of doing it—which had in fact been
suggested to Trump. (A curious one—an idea that later would seem ironic—was to get rid
of General Kelly at Homeland Security and move Comey into that job.) But the point
really was that Trump had wanted to confront and humiliate the FBI director. Cruelty was
a Trump attribute.

The firing had been carried out publicly and in front of his family—catching Comey
entirely off guard as he gave a speech in California. Then the president had further
personalized the blow with an ad hominem attack on the director, suggesting that the FBI
itself was on Trump’s side and that it, too, had only contempt for Comey.

The next day, as though to further emphasize and delight in both the insult and his
personal impunity, the president met with Russian bigwigs in the Oval Office, including
Russia’s Ambassador Kislyak, the very focus of much of the Trump-Russia investigation.
To the Russians he said: “I just fired the head of the FBI. He was crazy, a real nut job. I
faced great pressure because of Russia. That’s taken off.” Then, to boot, he revealed
information supplied to the United States by Israel from its agent in place in Syria about
ISIS using laptops to smuggle bombs onto airlines—revealing enough information to
compromise the Israeli agent. (This incident did not help Trump’s reputation in
intelligence circles, since, in spycraft, human sources are to be protected above all other
secrets.)

“It’s Trump,” said Bannon. “He thinks he can fire the FBI.”

OOK Ok

Trump believed that firing Comey would make him a hero. Over the next forty-eight hours
he spun his side to various friends. It was simple: he had stood up to the FBI. He proved

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020048
