NAUTIL.US | TEXT SETS

programs to study “exceptional responders”: those rare
cancer patients who do well while nobody else does.

Cancer is a personal disease, Solit explains. Each
tumor constitutes its own world of defective genes and
proteins. By studying the genetic quirks of exception-
al responders, physicians can systematically identify
weaknesses in cancer subtypes and blast them with
drugs that target their unique vulnerabilities. “It’s a
testament to how much has been learned about the
genome in the past 30 years,” Solit says. “We’ ve always
wanted to find out why some individuals respond so
well. Now we have the capacity. It’s going to really
change the way we treat patients.”

UNLIKELY CASES HAVE AN eminent history in medi-
cine. The modern science of the mind owes a lot to

the freakish accident suffered by Phineas Gage, a

19th century railroad construction foreman whose

job involved packing down explosive powder with a

three-and-a-half-foot-long iron tamping rod. On Sept.
13, 1848, the powder exploded in his face, blasting the
rod up through his chin and out the back of his head.
Against all odds, he survived. But his personality was
transformed. The formerly shrewd and patient Gage

became obnoxious and unreliable.

An observant doctor named John Martyn Harlow
who cared for Gage proposed that his personality
change was due to the destruction of the frontal lobe
of the left side of the brain. Gage’s unlikely transfor-
mation revealed a universal truth about brains, that
particular parts—the frontal lobes—are required for
self-control. The strange case of Phineas Gage is still
mentioned in neuroscience textbooks.

Rare events can also lead to new cures. As the story
goes, English physician Edward Jenner’s observations
of an 18th century milkmaid who caught cowpox and
thereby became immune to smallpox paved the way for
the fi vaccines. New ideas for curing HIV are emerg-
ing from the famously unlucky lucky case of the “Berlin
patient.” Timothy Ray Brown, who was HIV positive,
developed blood cancer leukemia in 2006. His chemo-
therapy and radiation treatments wiped out the cells
of his immune system, where the virus is believed to
hide. He then got a bone marrow transplant from one
of those rare people with a gene mutation that makes
them resistant to HIV. Today, Brown still has no sign

37

of HIV in his body, and his case has inspired a study
to genetically engineer HIV-positive patients’ cells to
resist the virus.

In the past, cancer researchers weren’t able to
capitalize on their unexpected outlier successes. Not
enough was known about the biology of cancer, and
the right tools hadn’t been invented. “Even if someone
had a complete remission, you had no way to figure out
why,” says James Doroshow, director of the Division of
Cancer Treatment and Diagnosis of the National Can-
cer Institute (NCI). That changed in the 2000s, when
it became possible to analyze the genetics of cancer
tumors for clues.

The first major success came with studies of the
drug gefitinib in non-small-cell lung cancer (the most
common kind). Gefitinib helped less than 20 percent
of the people who took it, but a few outliers had dra-
matic, rapid recoveries. In 2004, two Harvard groups
found that the responders had mutations in the epi-
dermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene. EGFR 1s
one of many genes that regulates how cells grow and
when they die, and the mutation basically forced it to
pump out two or three times as much growth signal as
it should, fueling the cancer. Gefitinib dialed down the
signal. A clinical trial later proved that the drug keeps
tumors at bay for more than nine months in people
with certain EGFR mutations.

More insights gleaned from extraordinary respond-
ers soon followed. One melanoma patient in a study of
22 people taking sorafenib saw his tumor shrink quick-
ly, a response due to a mutation in the gene KIT, which
regulates cell growth, division and survival. People
with certain kinds of melanoma, such as the type that
grows on mucus membranes, now routinely get tested
for this mutation. The drug helps about 40 percent of
those with the mutation—an impressive advance in a
cancer that once had no effective treatment.

In these studies, investigators had to make educat-
ed guesses about where in the genome to look for the
culprit mutations. It was the keys-under-the-lamppost
phenomenon: They could only examine genes they
already suspected were involved in the cancer. But as
the speed and efficiency of DNA sequencing skyrocket-
ed, and its price plummeted, it started to look reason-
able to sequence the whole tumor genome to cast the
widest possible net. By 2010, when the bladder cancer

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015497
