GDP growth by about 0.7 percentage point, similar
to their estimate reported in our Outlook last year.
Of course, not all experts believe that there is
a mismeasurement problem. Notable among them
is Chad Syverson of the University of Chicago,
who raises four points in making this case.*°
First, he states that the productivity slowdown
has been global in nature and unrelated to
countries’ consumption or production intensities
of information and communication technology.
Second, he states that estimates of consumer surplus
are too small relative to his estimates of lost GDP
due to slower productivity growth. Third, he argues
that if such mismeasurement existed, the growth rate
in the information and communication technology
sector would be a multiple of its stated growth rate.

We believe that productivity in

health care is underestimated. Finally, while he acknowledges that gross domestic
Consider IBM’s Watson Health, income has been higher than GDP since 2004 and
an artificial intelligence system the gap might reflect the higher wages of workers

who are producing non-market digital services, he
does not believe that this difference is evidence of
mismeasured GDP because the trend started earlier

that can read 200 million pages
of text in 3 seconds. As of 2015,

Watson had amassed 315 billion than the slowdown in productivity growth.
data points representing health A somewhat similar line of reasoning has been
records, lab results, genomic presented by Byrne, John Fernald of the Federal

Reserve Bank of San Francisco and Marshall
Reinsdorf of the IMF in a paper titled “Does the
United States Have a Productivity Slowdown or a

tests and clinical studies. The
system processes patients’ cases

against its ever-growing database Measurement Problem?”*’ While they agree that
and recommends customized productivity growth has been mismeasured in the
treatment options. With such past, they argue that the mismeasurement has been

negligible in the 2004-15 period partly because
computer hardware, for which mismeasurement
was once a factor, now makes up a smaller part of
of productivity in health care. GDP. Therefore, the impact is less in the 2004-15
period than it was in the 1995-2004 period when
productivity growth was much higher. They also
state that free digital products not only are non-
Ihe joke oductivity growth market and should not be counted in GDP, but also
were better measured, are not sizable enough to account for the level of
decline in productivity growth rates.

developments, we expect
continued improvement in growth

par ticularly in health and Experts’ opinions on mismeasurement continue

other services, the growth to evolve. In fact, in a subsequent publication co-
authored with Carol Corrado of the Conference

rate would look better than Board, Byrne found a significantly higher level

is currently reported.” of software price mismeasurement than assumed

in his prior paper.*® He has also co-authored a
Brookings Institution, September 2016. tablets such as iPads, proving that quality-adjusted
price indices for tablets have fallen much faster
than the broader price indices for computers and
peripheral equipment.*?

16 | Goldman Sachs | JANUARY 2017

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014549
