Tein would represent me. Upon review of Lewis’ background, it was suggested that
he might now not have the credibili y that he had represented, and rumors were
that he had been asked to leave the Department of Justice for inappropriate billing. |
told him in no uncertain terms that if his were true he would need to tell me, as he
was representing my credibility with the government. If he had been asked to leave
the Department of Justice, it would dramatically hurt my chances if it were he
making my case to senior officials. He swore up and down, as southerners are apt to
do, that there was no truth whatsoever to the allegations. Being charged with
untrue allegations rang close to my heart, and | chose to side with Lewis. Only after
my incarceration, when Lewis and Tein came to see me in a 9’x 10’ attorney room
that smelled of urine, and I told them that I was now being sued by many of the girls
on the government list, they expressed their regrets and their willingness to help.
However, as they walked out down the dungeon like hall with the sound of clanging
gates in the background, they were unaware of the security cameras and
microphones throughout the hallway. They chose to high-five one another on
camera and smile with the comment, “This is going to be a couple more years of
fees”. The guards at the jail, accustomed to some of the most heinous physical
crimes imaginable, and hardened against most of humanity’s foibles, were caught off
guard by the exhilaration of the potential of more fees.

Sex for money; it’s a sensitive subject. The reactions range from snl res Dworkin
the feminist who considers all intercourse a form of rape; man inserting his
authority, to Jackie Mason that posits that when a man takes a woman 1 for dinner,
many times his real motivation is the hope of receiving sex at the end of the evening.
He suggests it is hypocritical for the man to be able to pay the florist for flowers, the
doorman for getting a cab, the restaurant for the food, and the liquor store for the
gift of wine, but can’t pay the only person that performs the actual sex act without
committing a crime. Yes, I paid for sex. 1am a john. Yes, ] understand that
prostitution is a crime and a crime that very few johns have even gone to jail for. |
am aware that there are strong feelings amongst many people regarding that crime.
Many countries have legalized it, some states have legalized it; many have a policy of
no enforcement. New York City has escort services that openly advertise, massage
parlors that have neon signs in midtown. In actual fact, the crime of paying for sex at
the time of my transgressions was under penal code 230; equivalent to that of jay
walking unless the girl was under 15. Yes, under the age of 15. That was in New
York. In Florida, the age of consent is 18. Misrepresentation of age is not considered
a defense. Even if the girl worked in a sex establishment where one has to prove age
to work, if the girl was met in a bar where the drinking age is 21, or shows ID that
appears to be valid that she is over 18, that is not a defense. The State Attorneys
who deal with this sort of crime on a regular basis reviewed the case brought by the
local police, and said in no uncertain terms that there “were no real victims “ in the
Epstein case. NO real victims. Their words; they said the women knew what they
were doing. They even brought their best friends to Epstein’s house after going
there a number of times themselves. How could there be a serious crime?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025545
