» TOOLS AND TRICKS

Sample Muse Test Page

» The PX Method ( www.pxmethod.com )

This sales template was used to determine the viability of a speed-reading product, which tested
successfully. Notice how testimonials, credibility indicators, and risk-reversal guarantees are used, as
well as how the pricing is put on a separate page so it can be isolated as a testing variable. Use this as a
reference—it is a simple and effective model that can be copied. Please do not input your credit card
information, as it is just a mock-up for teaching purposes.

Fast and Simple Website Creation for Non-Techies (and Techies)

= Weebly ( www.weebly.com )

Weebly, which the BBC labeled “a must,” allowed me to create www.timothyferriss.com in less than two
hours and have it appear on the front page of Google for “timothy ferriss” searches within 48 hours. It is,
like WordPress.com below, designed to be very SEO-friendly (search-engine optimization) without any
knowledge or action on your part. No HTML or Internet expertise is required.

» WordPress.com ( www.wordpress.com )

I used WordPress.com to set up www.litliberation.org from a coffee shop in Bratislava, Slovakia, when a
U.S.-based designer flaked out and left me scrambling. It took me less than three hours to learn how to
use it and build the site. The site, an experimental educational fundraiser, ended up raising 200%+ more
than Stephen Colbert in the same period of time. I also use their free open-sourced version of WordPress
(www.wordpress.org, which requires separate hosting) to manage everything for my top-1,000 blog at
www.fourhourblog.com. This offers greater customization but requires more management and technical
know-how.

Both Weebly and WordPress.com host your site for you, so additional hosting setup isn’t required.

If you choose to use www.wordpress.org (not.com) for greater customizability, I suggest using a
hosting service with one-click WordPress installation like www.bluehost.com. The Shopp plug-in
(http://shopplugin.net/) or Market Theme plug-in (http://www.markettheme.com/) can then be used to
add e-commerce capabilities. Shopify.com (discussed later) is another good all-in-one alternative.

Create Forms in Seconds for Testing Checkout with or Without Payment

= Wufoo ( www.wufoo.com )

Wutoo does not offer a full-featured shopping cart, but it provides the cleanest, easiest-to-use forms on

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013914
