Financial Services

During the four previous years of Hensarling’s
chairmanship, most of the committee’s major bills died
quietly in the Senate, such as efforts to repeal much of
Dodd-Frank (the CHOICE Act), impose substantial reforms
upon the Fed, restructure the CFPB and strip the FSOC of
various powers. That may change now that the House,
Senate and White House will operate with greater
coordination, though the threat of the Senate filibuster
limits what Republicans can achieve. Hensarling notably
has enjoyed a longtime friendship with Vice President-
elect Mike Pence, which will give him a powerful ally in the
White House as the new administration plots its strategy
for financial regulation and nominates key appointees for
the regulatory agencies. Hensarling agrees with Senators
Crapo and Brown on the importance of capital for big
banks, but he wantsto reward banks with relief from
much of Dodd-Frank’s supervisory regime if they agree to
a higher leverage ratio. Hensarling can be expected to
reintroduce his CHOICE Act and Rep. Bill Huizenga’s (R-
Ml) package of Fed reforms (the FORM Act), and to renew
the panel’s aggressive oversight of the CFPB, the FSOC
and other bodies established by Dodd-Frank. Republicans
have also been critical of moves by global regulatory
bodies to set capital and liquidity rules for “systemically
important” banks and insurance companies.

Wells Fargo Scandal. Lawmakersin both the House and
Senate are certain to resume their investigations of Wells
Fargo in the wake of revelationsthat the bank’s
employees created as many as 2 million accounts without
customers’ consent. Hensarling and other Republicans
want to use the scandal to raise questions about the
performance of the CFPB and the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), while Ranking
Member Waters has vowed to offer a bill breaking up
Wells Fargo into smaller companies. On the Senate side,
Ranking Member Brown has used the scandal to focus on
mandatory arbitration provisions in financial contracts,
and will likely propose legislation prohibiting such clauses,
though Sen. Crapo is unlikely to support him. In an
editorial piece in October, Camden Fine, president of the
Independent Community Bankers of America (ICBA),
wrote that he “fully expected” that Wells Fargo’s new
policy of notifying customers whenever a new account is
created in their name, along with “far more stringent
policies, will ultimately become mandatory as
policymakersrespond to the scandal with additional
regulatory burdens on banks of all sizes.”

Oversight of Regulators. As they have in previous years,
the banking committees in 2017 will devote considerable
time to overseeing rules issued by financial regulators.
These will include the still-unfinished interagency rules for
clawing back incentive compensation drafted by the SEC,
the Fed, the FDIC and other agencies; the CFPB’s
controversial new rules for prepaid cards, payday lenders
and mandatory arbitration clauses; the global Financial
Stability Board’s forthcoming regulations for capital held
by large insurers; and the international Basel Committee’s
rules for bank capital, which are expected to be issued by
the end of this year. The Banking Committee must also
schedule hearings for high-level Treasury nominees, as
well as nomineesfor key vacancies at the SEC, CFTC, the
Federal Reserve and the Ex-Ilm Bank, which were never
filled in the current Congress because of lingering
disputes with the Obama administration.

Two Deadlines to Watch: 1)thelargest banks resubmit
their “living will’ resolution plans in May 2017, alwaysa
source of contention for critics of “too big to fail’; 2) the
Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (TRIA) expires at the end of
2017, forcing yet another ideological dispute over
whether the federal backstop program should be
renewed.

EY 22

| Election 2016

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022394
