Date: 7/13/06 @. BEACH POLICE DEPARTMEN , Page: 71
Time: 9:27:55 Incident Report Program: CMS301L
Case No. . . . : 1-05-000368 (Continued)

During a sworn taped statement, Mr. Rodriguez stated he was employed
by Jeffrey Epstein for approximately six months. He was referred by
associates and his employment lasted the months of November 2004
through May 2005. His responsibilities as house manager included
being the butler, chauffer, chef, houseman, run errands for Mr.
Epstein and provide for Epstein's guests. Rodriguez advised he had
very limited contact with Mr. Epstein. If Rodriguez needed to relay a
message to Mr. Epstein, he would have to notify Epstein's secretary
Leslie in New York City, who would then notify Epstein's personal
assistant, [BBB who would relay the message to Epstein. Rodriguez
stated Epstein did not want to see or hear the staff when he was in
residence.

I asked Rodriguez if Epstein received many guests during his stay in
Palm Beach. Rodriguez advised he had many guests. I asked
specifically about masseuses coming to the house. Rodriguez stated he
would have two massages a day. Epstein would have one massage in the
morning and one massage in the afternoon everyday he was in residence.
Rodriguez stated he would_be informed to expect someone and make them
comfortable until either or Epstein would meet with them.

Rodriguez stated once the masseuses would arrive, he would allow them

entry into the kitchen area and offer them something to drink or eat.

They would then be encountered by either MJ or Epstein. They

would be taken upstairs to provide the massage. I asked Rodriguez if

any of the masseuses appeared young in age. He advised he didn't ask

their ages but felt they were very young. Rodriguez stated they ate

like his own daughter who is in high school. Rodriguez stated they

would eat tons of cereal and drink milk all the time.. Rodriguez

stated the girls that would come appeared to be too young to be

masseuses. He stated one time under Epstein's direction, he delivered

a dozen roses top TT for one of the girls b6

that came to provide a massage. He knew the girls were still in high bic

school and were of high school age. I asked Rodriguez about the
_Massages. He felt there was a lot more going on than just massages.

He would clean Mr. Epstein's bedroom after the alleged massages and

would discover massager/vibrators and sex toys scattered on the floor.

He also said he would wipe down the vibrators and sex toys and put

them away in an armoire. He described the armoire as a small wood

armoire which was on the wall close to Epstein's bed.

Epstein ordered Rodriguez to go to the Dollar rent a car and rent a
car for the same girl he brought the roses to, so that she could drive
her self to Epstein's house without incident. Rodriguez said the girl
always needed rides to and from the house. Rodriguez referred himself
as a human ATM machine and was ordered by Epstein to maintain a
minimum balance of $2,000 dollars on him at all times. When a girl
would come by the house and Mr. Epstein was either not in residence or
was not at home at the time, Rodriguez was to provide the girl
(masseuse) several hundred dollars for their time and to notify
Epstein the amount they were given. Epstein also ordered Rodriguez to

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019024

