psychology to (at least momentary)
consideration of a career in government
service. A student with the long-held
intent of becoming a researcher and with
no interest in politics, government, or
public service might seem to be an
immovable object. And yet, in that
moment, Jordan’s speech had sufficient
impact to make government service
seem like the only path one would want
to take or should ever consider.

Although her points were argued
well, the impact of Jordan’s speech was
not simply rhetorical. John F.
Kennedy’s “Ask not what your country
can do for you....” and Martin Luther
King, Jr.’s “I have a dream....” affected
listeners deeply well beyond the
cognitive strengths of a good argument.
Moreover, while all these speeches were
delivered beautifully and from the heart,
it is not the performance of these
speeches alone that can move listeners to
act on behalf of others. The
performance alone cannot give substance
to an empty message. While there are
cases in which a great performance may
suggest briefly that there was content of
import even in the absence of a real
message, it is more likely the
conjunction of message and delivery that
moves people. In these speeches is a
clear demonstration of the power of
language. Language is more than words
and more than delivery. Indeed, Cicero,
in De Oratore, said that rhetoric conveys
information, persuades listeners, and
evokes emotion.

“In the beginning was the word....”

If “the word made flesh” is taken
metaphorically, the power of language
can be made visceral in sermons.
Consider the power of Jonathan
Edwards’ sermon, which Clark Gilpin’s
chapter discusses, to terrify a

Page | 67

congregation, to wrench them from
complacency with images of torment. A
sermon delivers a message, but it can do
so in calm tones of instruction or with
fire and brimstone. The choice and
poetry of words and the cadence and
intonation of speaking can draw the
listener in slowly or seize the listener
suddenly, the very sounds of speech
painting images in the mind while
igniting new inferences with literal and
metaphoric descriptions.

In the realm of the spiritual, there
are few corporeal manifestations that can
be perceived directly. Neither heaven
nor hell, neither God nor the Devil can
be seen or heard or touched. Preaching
is needed to spell out the work of unseen
hands and will and illuminate the power
of the unseen. The force of that which is
not seen can only be felt when
transmitted directly through speech.

In Phaedrus, Plato described
rhetoric as the art of leading the soul.
Thus it is not surprising that, while at the
core of religion is a collection of beliefs
and concepts and canons, the fabric and
form of religion is language. Symbols
and icons are certainly important, but
language is the medium through which
the force of theology is actualized in
prayers, benedictions, sermons, and
teaching. Language can reach across
time and space to change minds,
feelings, and behavior, encoding laws
and beliefs and presenting them with a
concrete reality in the here and now.
This is one kind of impact from author to
audience in which a kind of connection
is constructed bridging minds.

At the same time, in religious
practices, another kind of connection is
formed within a congregation. Joint
recitation, responsive reading, collective
listening, and understanding may serve

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021313
