124

Exchanges

The Chinese government organizes and pays for exchanges in which participants travel
from the United States, divulge technical knowledge through scripted venues, are briefed
on China’s technology interests, return to their US base to collect more information, and
repeat the process. China has a program for what it euphemistically calls “short-term visits”
by co-opted foreigners, which, stripped of its rhetoric, is indistinguishable from state-run
espionage.

Cooperation organizations and advocacy groups

Many Sino-US S&T “cooperation” organizations in the United States facilitate these transfers
and have individual memberships of hundreds to thousands. The figure scales to some
ninety such groups worldwide. Members usually are expatriate Chinese, although China is
expanding its recruitment of nonethnic Chinese. One significant example of a Sino-US S&T
cooperation organization is Triway Enterprise, Inc. (=ZEI®ABRAS Al), an “external training
institute” set up under the auspices of the State Administration of Foreign Experts Affairs

in Falls Church, Virginia, with branches in Beijing and Nanjing. According to the Chinese
version of the website, the company “since 1993 has been putting its energy into promoting
bilateral exchange and cooperation between China and the US in the fields of S&T, culture,
education and management with great success.”§

China S&T advocacy groups in the United States declare loyalty to China and acknowledge
a “duty” to support China’s development. Members visit China to lecture, guide Chinese
technical projects, transfer technologies, receive shopping lists from Chinese entities, and
engage in other kinds of “technical exchanges.” Many of them sit on Chinese government
boards that decide the future of China’s national technology investment. Another
example of a China S&T advocacy group is the Silicon Valley Chinese Engineers Association
(EAE LEI), which describes itself as “a non-profit professional organization formed
mainly by the professionals in the Bay Area from mainland China with a mission to
promote professionalism and entrepreneurship among members,” which is achieved by
“organizing a variety of professional activities and establishing channels to allow members to
engage in China’s rapid economic development” [emphasis added].?

Chinese government tech transfer offices, facilitation companies, and career transfer
personnel, some of whom are posted to China’s diplomatic offices, support and direct
the US-based groups. In China, hundreds of government offices are devoted entirely to
facilitating foreign transfers of technology “by diverse means.”

Joint research

The preferred method of establishing a research beachhead in the United States is through
the formation of a joint research center with a prominent US university. One example

Technology and Research

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020583
