mutually reinforcing leading to
synchrony.

In any dynamic social situation
observing one person’s action can
initiate neural activity in another. Parts
of the observer’s motor system become
activated, making it possible to respond
in synchrony. In fact, the specific actions
that are observed are not as important as
the perceived goals or intentions of the
observed person. One consequence of
this is that a person is sensitive to new
actions in the social environment. A
second is that significant actions by
another person can quickly produce
complementary motor responses. Thus,
adaptive social behavior is a product of
perceptual monitoring and motor
processes. The complexity of the social
environment necessitates selective
responding to socially significant
features of any social interaction. Such
selective responding depends on the
observer having particular goals for
action. The identification of significant
stimuli (e.g., a threatening backhand
smash) activates in the competitor’s
brain goal-driven decision processes that
operate in parallel with continuous social
monitoring and lead to a counteraction
(e.g., a defensive lob) produced by the
motor system. However, a linesman
collecting a ball during a tennis match
does not constitute a significant action
for the competition and, even if
observed, does not initiate any
counteraction.

Let us now return to the
perspective of a spectator at the tennis
match. While the specific movements
driving the tennis match have significant
implications for the players’ actions,
these movements have a different
implication for the spectator from whom
no overt responses are warranted. If an
observed action produced by someone

Page |6l

else does not have personal significance
for an observer, the motor system does
not respond in the same way at all’. The
goal-dependent aspect of observing the
actions of others allows us to understand
and respond quickly and effectively
without confusing what we do with what
we see. However, in some special cases,
when a group of individuals all respond
together, the same motor system may
operate differently. It is in these
situations when we are neither observer
nor respondent but part of a flock or
chorus that our sense of individuated self
may begin to dissolve into the larger
social group.

The Social Parameters for Suspended
Self-Consciousness

The dissolution of self-other
boundaries is likely to be manifest under
a specific set of conditions, which
includes a strong feeling of identification
with (i.e., connection between) oneself
and a group of others, the absence of
constraints to action by oneself or the
observed others, a common goal shared
by the group, and the absence of a
recognized external synchronizing signal
to which one can attribute any
synchronized behavior. Clapping in
unison following a rousing performance
is amore common example. This
remarkable phenomenon is evidenced
despite considerable individual
differences in clapping tempos. The
transition to entrained clapping, whereby
each clapper affects the surrounding
other clappers both locally and globally,
enhances the noise intensity at the
moment of the clapping even though it
leads to a decrease in the overall average
noise intensity in the room.
Synchronized behavior occurs
rhythmically and one way of capturing
its regularities is to model its cycles,
periods, frequencies, and amplitudes '”.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021307
