women never have our own damn sexual needs; that it's wrong or wicked or dirty for
women to negotiate any sexual exchange for pleasure; that women are meant to trade sex
for commitment or support (though, bizarrely, never outright for money). If we
assume that I can get something great from sexual relationships without Being On The
Path To Marriage. That I understand and honor my sexual desires, that those desires are
worth fulfilling in themselves. And if we assume that men have something wonderful
they could bring to the sexual exchange; that they aren't always using or exploiting or
winning some kind of sick war-of-the-sexes, every single time they fuck.

But even if the fears don't make sense, sometimes they still come out and whisper at the
back of my neck... /'m selling myself short. As if I should have bargained better, should
have traded my sexuality for far more than mere pleasure with someone I merely
liked, was merely attracted to, who merely respected my boundaries and merely
was fun to hang out with. Would some people see it as ironic that I prefer relationships
with real emotional heft, even when short-term or casual? Even with that said, though,
there is no description of how reasonable, safe, or awesome my relationships are that will
matter to our slut-shaming society -- or to the fears it's hammered into me. Society,
whose judgment of whether a girl is a slut can be sudden and devastating, stupid and
stereotypical; a lightning strike that lands based on absurd factors like how non-
normative or straightforward or aware of her sexuality she is. And once I'm a slut -- if]
dare dance over that ever-shifting line -- then I'm beyond the pale. The world always
seems to be outdoing itself in finding new ways to tell me that once I'm a slut, no man
will ever respect me again.

TK OK ok

I went home. It was raining, all across my cypress city; raining so hard, I had to take the
bus instead of walking. The rain struck me as an insultingly obvious metaphor, as did the
fact that I was scheduled to attend a wedding that afternoon. It seemed strange that
hallucinatory San Francisco would throw such tired tropes at me. (I should have trusted
the city more. It was with me, still.)

I was sad. Not devastated. Just sad, and a little bit scared. /'m such a screwed-up
perverted slut, no man will ever care about me. However, I'm an adult, so I tried to
recognize my emotional baggage, give myself some time to process, then eat a proper
lunch and get some work done.

I took a very dear, very blunt friend out to dinner recently. (Yes, I paid, and yes, he felt
objectified.) Over Indian curries, I tried to explain my fears that All Men (who are of
course a monolith) will pigeonhole me as too much, too extreme. A slut. Whatever.
My friend listened, savoring his delicious lassi as he thought about what I was trying to
say. Then he said, Look, you shouldn't worry about it. You're extreme. You're also tall.
You couldn't be un-tall for a man, and you can't be un-extreme. There are men who will
like you just fine for it, so just keep an eye out for those men.” I could detect the edge
under his words: Come on, Clarisse, you're the one who always says that People Are
Different, why do I even have to tell you this? A fair point, but I can't help it -- stories like
this still shake me.

As it happens, though, this story has a happy ending.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018529
