Disclaimer

This document has been prepared by UBS AG, its subsidiary or affiliate (UBS). The information is intended as a general market commentary and provided solely for marketing and information
purposes. Opinions expressed herein are those of UBS Wealth Management & Swiss Bank's Chief Investment Office. The information does not constitute UBS financial research. The statutory regulations regarding
independence of financial research are not applicable to this publication. The document is not to be regarded as a sales prospectus, an offer or a solicitation of an offer to enter in any investment activity or investment
advice.

Specific investment objectives, financial situation or particular needs of a recipient are not considered in this document. Tax treatment depends on the individual recipient's circumstances and may be subject
to change in the future. UBS does not provide legal or tax advice. Recipients should therefore obtain independent legal and tax advice in the respective jurisdiction. At any time, UBS, its directors, officers and employees’
or clients may adopt long or short positions or deal as principal or agent in relevant securities or may have a relationship with and provide financial services to issuers of relevant securities that are linked to the subject
matters discussed in this publication. Please note that all investments carry a certain degree of risk. The market in certain securities may be illiquid. Investments may be subject to sudden and large falls in value and on
disposition may pay back less than invested. Changes in foreign exchange rates may have an adverse effect on the price, value or income of an investment. If for a financial instrument a prospectus has been published,
this prospectus is available free of charge via UBS. Information contained herein may refer to past performances or are simulated past performances. Forecasts may be based on prognoses. All of these are not reliable
indicators of future results.

Information contained herein is current as of the date of publication and are subject to change without prior notice. The information has been obtained from sources deemed to be reliable. No representation
or warranty, express or implied, is provided in relation to the accuracy, completeness or reliability of such information except with respect to information concerning UBS. UBS is not liable for any loss or damage arising
out of the use of all or any part of this document.

This document is intended solely for the information of the person to whom it has been delivered and may not be distributed in any jurisdiction where such distribution is restricted or would constitute a
violation of applicable law or regulations. This document is, in particular, not intended for distribution into the US and/or to US persons. UBS specifically prohibits the amendment or the redistribution of this document in
whole or in part without the written permission of UBS and UBS accepts no liability whatsoever for any actions in this respect.

Australia: 1) Clients of UBS Wealth Management Australia Ltd: This notice is distributed to clients of UBS Wealth Management Australia Ltd ABN 50 005 311 937 (Holder of Australian Financial Services Licence No.
231127), Chifley Tower, 2 Chifley Square, Sydney, New South Wales, NSW 2000, by UBS Wealth Management Australia Ltd. This document contains general information and/or general advice only and does not constitute
personal financial product advice. Prior to making any investment decision, a recipient should obtain personal financial product advice from an independent adviser and consider any relevant offer documents (including
any product disclosure statement) where the acquisition of financial products is being considered. UBS AG is authorised to provide financial product advice in relation to foreign exchange contracts in Australia, and as
such UBS AG is responsible for all general advice on foreign exchange and currencies contained herein. 2) Clients of UBS AG: This notice is issued by UBS AG ABN 47 088 129 613 (Holder of Australian Financial Services
Licence No 231087): This document is issued and distributed by UBS AG. This is the case despite anything to the contrary in the document. The document is intended for use only by “Wholesale Clients” as defined in
section 761G (“Wholesale Clients”) of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) (“Corporations Act”). In no circumstances may the document be made available by UBS AG to a “Retail Client” as defined in section 761G of the
Corporations Act. The document is general information only and does not take into account any person’s investment objectives, financial and taxation situation or particular needs. Belgium: This publication is not
intended to constitute a public offering or a comparable solicitation under Belgian law, but might be made available for information purposes to clients of UBS Belgium NV/SA, a regulated credit institution under the
Financial Services and Markets Authority and the National Bank of Belgium, to which this publication has not been submitted for approval. This publication is not intended to constitute a public offering or a
comparable solicitation under Belgian law, but might be made available for information purposes to clients of UBS Belgium NV/SA, a regulated bank under the “Commission Bancaire, Financiére et des Assurances”, to
which this publication has not been submitted for approval. Canada: In Canada, this publication is distributed to clients of UBS Wealth Management Canada by UBS Investment Management Canada Inc. France : This
document is distributed by UBS (France) S.A., a French joint stock company with an Executive Board and a Supervisory Board (société anonyme 4 Directoire et Conseil de Surveillance), with share capital of EUR 125,726,944,
headquartered at 69 boulevard Haussmann, 75008 Paris, RCS Paris B 421255670, for its clients and prospects. UBS (France) S.A. is an investment services provider authorized by the French Prudential Supervisory Authority
(Autorité de Contréle Prudentiel). Germany: The issuer under German Law is UBS Deutschland AG, Bockenheimer Landstrasse 2-4, 60306 Frankfurt am Main. UBS Deutschland AG is authorized and regulated by the
“Bundesanstalt fur Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht”.Luxembourg: This publication is not intended to constitute a public offer under Luxembourg law, but might be made available for information purposes to clients of
UBS (Luxembourg) S.A., 33a, Avenue J. F. Kennedy, L-1855 Luxembourg, R.C. No. B 111 42, a regulated bank under the supervision of the ,,Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier” (CSSF), to which this publication
has not been submitted for approval. Saudi Arabia: This publication has been approved by UBS Saudi Arabia (a subsidiary of UBS AG), a foreign closed joint stock company incorporated in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
under commercial register number 1010257812 having its registered office at Tatweer Towers, P.O. Box 75724, Riyadh 11588, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. UBS Saudi Arabia is authorized and regulated by the Capital Market
Authority to conduct securities business under license number 08113-37. Singapore: Please contact UBS AG Singapore branch, an exempt financial adviser under the Singapore Financial Advisers Act (Cap. 110) and a
wholesale bank licensed under the Singapore Banking Act (Cap. 19) regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore, in respect of any matters arising from, or in connection with, the analysis or report. The recipient of
this report represent and warrant that they are accredited and institutional investors as defined in the Securities and Futures Act (Cap. 289) UK: Approved by UBS AG, authorized and regulated in the UK by the Financial
Services Authority. A member of the London Stock Exchange. This publication is distributed to private clients of UBS London in the UK. Where products or services are provided from outside the UK, they will not be
covered by the UK regulatory regime or the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. © UBS 2012. The key symbol and UBS are among the registered and unregistered trademarks of UBS. All rights reserved

36 UBS .

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024178
