24

maintain an individual's weight within a fairly narrow range. The
signals are received in a structure at the base of the brain called the
hypothalamus. The hypothalamus is involved in the control of many
basic, subconscious drives and reflexes including sex, feeding,
ageression, drinking, and regulation of body temperature. When rats
received lesions in a particular subregion of the hypothalamus called
the ventromedial area, they became obese. They behaved as if they
were starving and compensated with an increase in food intake and a
decrease in energy expenditure. Conversely, when a different part of
the hypothalamus, called the lateral area, was destroyed, the rats
behaved as if they had been overfed. They reduced food intake and
increased energy use and thereby became dangerously lean. This is
not just a rat trick: These experiments have been replicated in a wide
variety of mammals, and humans who sustain damage to the
ventromedial hypothalamus (usually from a tumor of the adjacent
pituitary gland) will also increase their food intake and become
obese.

This model raises one obvious question: How does your
hypothalamus know how much you weigh? Let's step back and play
God for a moment. If you wanted to build this system, how would
you do it? By measuring blood glucose? Fat deposits? Core body
temperature? Pressure on the soles of the feet?

This all remained a mystery until 1994, when Jeffrey Friedman and
his colleagues at Rockefeller University reported their observations
of two strains of mutant mouse, one called obese and the other called
db. (These mutations were not created by scientists using genetic
tricks but arose spontaneously in a breeding colony.) Both strains of
mice were extremely fat, a trait that was passed on to their offspring
in a simple, dominant pattern of inheritance, like eye color. This
suggested that obesity in both obese and db mouse strains resulted
from a mutation in a single gene in each case. Friedman's group was

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029955
