while (relatively) moderate civilian politicians are reduced to feuding and
arresting each others' children. Iran's nuclear programme appears to
proceed independent even of the organs of its own state.

A spoof article in the Economist last year portrayed Iran's supreme leader,
Ayatollah Khamenei, ruminating on western nations' obsessive posturing
towards his country. He mused that these were unstable, unreliable places,
dangerous though probably not all mad. But since it was hard to be sure, I
would feel a lot safer 1f we already had that bomb. Similar insecurity
drove sanctioned Cuba to accept Russian missiles in the 1960s, and
sanctioned Iraq and Libya to pretend to build weapons of mass destruction
in the 1990s.

Sanctions never stop bad things happening. Rather they entrench dictators,
build up siege economies and debilitate the urban middle class from which
opposition to dictatorship grows. As Khamenei said in a speech a year
ago, sanctions were painful ... but make us more self-reliant. Indeed, for
a regime to be sanctioned 1s to receive an elixir: witness Castro, Gaddafi,
the ayatollahs and the ruling cliques of Burma, Afghanistan and North
Korea. That sanctioned regimes sometimes come to an end is not proof
that sanctions work, rather that they take a long time and usually require
war to work.

This is a rarely researched topic because sanctions are diplomatic ideology
rather than science. A debate in 1998 in International Security magazine
saw the Chicago academic, Robert Pape, barely challenged in his view
that only around five of the 115 cases of sanctions imposed since the war
could claim any plausible efficacy. Most merely inflicted significant
human costs on the populations of target states, including on innocent
civilians who have little influence on their government's behaviour. They
are a ready invitation to war.

When I was reporting on South Africa in the 1980s I became convinced
that sanctions were aiding import substitution and benefiting the Afrikaner
economy, probably giving apartheid an extra decade of life. They likewise
prolonged Ian Smith's regime in Rhodesia. Sanctions made Libya's
Gaddafi so rich he could spoon money into the London School of

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028652
