The country's economic malaise has also led to a reportedly sharp rise in plain old, non-
Islamically sanctioned prostitution. Tehran's high-end taxi drivers, often underemployed

university graduates, casually point them out on the street.

When economies take a downturn, informal economies and illicit networks become more
attractive, says Pardis Mahdavi, author of a book on sexuality in Iran. Technology

facilitates this too.

During the shah's time, Tehran's notorious red-light district was known as Shahr-e
Noe (New City), a place where countless young Iranian men lost their virginity. Like many
things post-revolution, however, the Islamic Republic just imagined that banning the
symptom would make the problem go away. But pouring saltpeter from the minarets
hasn't worked. They razed Shahr-e Noe thinking it would end prostitution, a retired

Iranian laborer once told me. Now all of Tehran has become Shahr-e Noe.

UNSURPRISINGLY, THE OUTWARDLY CHASTE nature of Khomeinist political
culture has perverted norma] sexual behavior, creating peculiar curiosities -- and
proclivities -- among Iranian officialdom. Omid Memarian, a journalist who spent several
months in the notorious Evin prison for his articles critical of the government, told me
that his interrogators seemed far more interested in his sex life than his political
peccadilloes. I tried to answer their questions in very general terms, but they'd interrupt
me,” he recalled. They wanted to know details. 'Start from when you were unbuttoning
her blouse.... In one instance, he told me, he was horrified when an interrogator

appeared to be rubbing himself while listening.

Observers of American politics -- the land of Jimmy Swaggart, Mark Sanford,

and Newt Gingrich, to name just a few -- won't be surprised to learn that it is often the
most outspoken Iranian advocates of traditional values who fall short of achieving them.
Memarian spent part of his mandatory military service in Tehran writing speeches for a
senior Revolutionary Guard commander who routinely attacked the craven immorality of
the Global Arrogance (i.e., the United States). His filmi [the person who brought him
bootlegged films on CD] later told me that he always requested 'films with scenes’ [film-
haye sahne-dar], a euphemism for porn.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_026559
