/ BARAK / 37

was coping in his trademark military uniform. Still, the mood music going into the
meeting was encouraging. After the election, Arafat had tried to use his ties with
the ayatollahs in Iran to get them to release 13 members of the tiny Jewish
community in Shiraz who had been jailed on patently absurd accusations of spying
for the “Zionist régime.” Iran had told him no. Given its support for Hizbollah, and
its serial diatribes about destroying the State of Israel, this was hardly a surprise.
But it was a gesture nonetheless, and I told him I appreciated it. I also arrived with
a gift: a leather-bound volume with both the Hebrew Bible and Koran. I began our
meeting with what I felt I most needed him to hear: that both of us were trying to
achieve something hugely important, nothing less than a new relationship between
Israelis and Palestinians based on trust. As I would discover in the months ahead —
as Yitzhak had found as well — Arafat responded warmly to such general appeals
of principle. He replied that he viewed me as a partner, and a friend. But the key
issue of substance — the difference between how I envisaged taking Oslo forward
and what he wanted — was impossible to avoid.

I emphasized that I was committed to the further Wye River summit
redeployments Bibi which had agreed, although not implemented, as well as to a
release of Palestinian prisoners agreed at Wye. Yet then came the more difficult
part: explaining my view of how we could best move toward a full peace
agreement. I said I was convinced the prospects would be much better if we
delayed the redeployments and brought forward the start of the real negotiations:
on “permanent-status” issues like final borders, settlements, Jerusalem, refugees. In
any case, I said, I’'d need a few months for a thorough assessment of the issues
involved, and to reach a settled view with my negotiating team on how to proceed.
Arafat seemed to accept the idea of a pause for reflection and planning. But he held
firm in his opposition to any further delay in the Wye redeployments. More
worryingly for the longer-term prospects of an agreement, he ignored altogether
my suggestion that we move ahead toward the permanent-status talks.

Speaking to reporters, I was careful to accentuate the positive. I said the reason
I’d come to see Arafat so soon was because of the importance I attached to his role
in “shaping peace in the Middle East.” I said I would not waver in continuing on
the path which Rabin and he and begun. And while the security of Israel would be
my paramount concern in negotiations, “I also want each Palestinian to feel
secure.” Both sides, I said, had suffered enough. The open question, however, was
whether / had done enough to persuade Arafat that his exclusive focus on

323

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028171
