OUP CORRECTED PROOF - FINAL, 10/9/2014, SPi

XXXvili The Crooked Course

Resolution at the Khartoum Summit, which is referred to as the “Three Noes Docu-
ment” due to its clause that states: “no peace with Israel, no recognition of Israel, no
negotiations with it”. On 6 October 1973, Syria and Egypt launched a war against Israel
that ended in a political stand-off between Israel and its Arab adversaries.

In November 1977, Egyptian President Anwar al-Sadat broke Arab unity when he—
in a move which stunned the world—flew to Israel and addressed the Knesset in a bid
for a peaceful resolution of the Arab-Israeli conflict. Subsequently, in 1978, he signed
the Camp David Accords that established a separate bilateral peace agreement with
Israel.

Camp David highlighted the importance of a third-party broker. When President
Sadat and his counterpart, Prime Minister Menachem Begin of Israel, reached a
stalemate, US President Jimmy Carter invited the parties to his presidential estate for
trilateral discussions on 5 September 1978. Three scheduled days of negotiations
turned into thirteen days of frustrating and intense talks. Since these tripartite discus-
sions were unable to break the impasse, President Carter decided to work separately
with both sides. The result was an American proposal which incorporated the require-
ments of both parties into a single text. After lengthy negotiations on this document,
President Carter’s shuttle diplomacy resulted in the Camp David Accords of 17
September 1978.

In 1993, PLO Chairman Yasir Arafat followed the precedent of President Sadat and
broke ranks with fellow Arab leaders by secretly and bilaterally recognizing the State of
Israel and signing the Oslo Accords. The year after, building on the agreements
between Israel and the PLO, King Hussein of Jordan followed suit by negotiating a
bilateral peace treaty with Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel. This culminated in a
spectacular signing ceremony at the desert border crossing of Wadi Araba in August
1994. In the agreement, Israel acknowledged Jordan’s historical role over Muslim holy
sites in Jerusalem and agreed to recognize this role in future permanent status
negotiations with the Palestinians. The two leaders also agreed on steps such as the
opening of border crossings and economic cooperation.

In 1999, Labor Party leader Ehud Barak defeated incumbent Prime Minister Benja-
min Netanyahu. As has been described above, the new Prime Minister broke radically
with the concept of gradualism that had been the hallmark of negotiations between
Yasir Arafat and three Israeli Prime Ministers, Yitzhak Rabin, Shimon Peres, and
Benjamin Netanyahu, favoring a more comprehensive approach to the peace process.
For the first half of 2000, Arafat and the Palestinians were left to wait for a Syrian peace
deal that was not to come. Despite Barak offering Syrian President Hafez al-Assad 99
per cent of the Golan Heights, it still fell short of Assad’s demand for a return to the 4
June 1967 lines, and the Syria track subsequently crumbled. This put Arafat on the
spot: how could he now, in front of the Arab world, accept less for the Palestinians than
Assad had demanded for the Syrians?

The Lebanon track fared better. It began in late 1999 with a dialogue between Prime
Minister Barak and me, as the newly appointed UN Special Coordinator for the Middle
East peace process. The Prime Minister confided to me that, as a part of his compre-
hensive quest for resolving all the conflicts that Israel had with its neighbors, he wanted
to end Israel’s occupation of Southern Lebanon that had started in 1978. Eventually, he

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023170
