4.2.12
WC: 191694

hours of anticipated partying and sightseeing? The most plausible explanation for the removal
and non-replacement of the panty liner was that it was done in anticipation of consensual sex.

Moreover, if she did not want to have sex, she could easily have locked herself in the bathroom
and called for help from the bathroom phone. The bathroom had a working lock and a phone.
Instead, she willingly came out of the bathroom, passed a door leading to the outside corridor and
went back to Tyson's bedroom, where they had sex on the bed.

According to Washington's own testimony, Tyson asked her, during their sexual encounter,
whether she wanted to get on top and she responded yeah,” and proceeded to get on top—not
the usual position for a rape victim!

Mike Tyson had every reason to believe that Desiree was just another groupie looking for sex
with a celebrity athlete. The rules of groupie sex are well known to both groupies and athletes.
The groupies want sex with superstars in exchange for bragging rights that they slept with the
high-scorer, the champ or the star. Some, like Washington, hope that the star will fall for
her and make her rich and famous. Indeed, several other contestants - - friends of Desiree - -
testified that after meeting Mike Tyson, Desiree bragged to her friend that she was going out with
him because this is Mike Tyson. He's got a lot of money. He's dumb. You see what Robin
Givens got out of him. She told another friend that Robin Givens had him. I can have him too
... He's dumb anyway. To her roommate, she said: Mike doesn't have to know how to speak
well. He'll make all the money and I'll do the talking.

Tyson testified that he was blunt, direct and unambiguous about what he wanted from
Washington. When he asked her out—in front of a witness—she suggested a movie or dinner. But
he said no: That's not what I [have] in mind... I want you. I want to fuck you. The
witness—Johnny Gill, a singer—testified that Tyson said, I want to fuck. Gill later asked Tyson
how he could be so straightforward with women, and Tyson explained that he is used to saying
what is on his mind.

Desiree Washington knew full well that Mike wanted to have sex with her when she went to his
hotel room after two o'clock in the morning. Yet she testified that she had no idea that Tyson had
any interest in having sex. How any rational person could believe that, especially in light of what
is now known about Washington, is mind-boggling. She may have been disappointed and hurt
when he treated her like a groupie—a one-night stand—rather than as a continuing romantic
interest. She realized that she could not exploit his sexual interest in her the way Robin Givens
had done, and she was afraid of the reaction of her friends and family when it became known that
she had indulged in a one-night stand with Tyson. A friend of hers told the press that Desiree
only cried rape after her furious father found out she'd had sex with Tyson.

Our investigation revealed that she had had previously engaged in consensual sex with an
athlete—the high school football hero—and when her father found out about it and threatened to
beat her, she lied to her father and told him she had been raped, thus falsely accusing the football
player.

239

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017326
