Case 9:08-cv-80736-KAM Document 319-1 Entered on FLSD Docket 03/24/2015 Page 32 of
34

Thomas E. Scott, Jr., Esq.

Re: Edwards and Cassell v. Dershowitz
February 25, 2015

Page 4

WL 1328259, at *5 (S.D.N.Y. 2006) (“Courts have long construed the term ‘control’ as
meaning more than simple ‘possession.’ 'Control has been construed broadly by the
courts as the legal right, authority, or practical ability to obtain the materials sought
upon demand.). See also Frantz v, Golebiewski, 407 So.2d 283, 285 n.4 (Fla. 3 DCA
1981) (Interpretations of the federal rule are persuasive in considering its Florida
equivalent.).

While your responses purport to recognize the obligation to produce documents subject

to Mr. Dershowitz’s “control”, there are qualifications in the responses that would

appear to contradict that recognition. Your objection to the production of metadata has
_no legal foundation.

Word Play and Gamesmanship

You will note that we do not include page after page of definitions. I believe that any
lawyer reasonably fluent in English can carry out his or her duty to construe
interrogatories and requests for production in the broad and liberal manner intended by
the rules. Florida courts frown on parsing and gamesmanship. See, e.g. First Healthcare
Corp. v. Hamilton, 740 So.2d 1189, 1194 (Fla. 4 DCA 1999) (chastising counsel who
did not turn over event reports because plaintiff requested incident reports as
engaged in little more than a semantic shell game.).

Repeated assertions that statements were made by Mr. Dershowitz “upon information
and belief” is an example of prohibited “word play.” That qualification has no bearing
on the Defendant’s discovery obligations.

“Will Produce”

The Rules of Civil Procedure require production and not just a commitment of
production at some unspecified future date. If the documents you intend to produce are
available for inspection and copying now as they are required to be, we are prepared to
pick them up immediately. If they are not immediately available, when will they be?

Timeframe Objections

Your repeated attempts to restrict discovery to a narrow timeframe, fail to account for
the fact that this is a defamation action arising out of broad defamatory statements made
by Mr. Dershowitz impugning the honesty and integrity of the Plaintiffs without any
limitations as to a specific time or circumstance. Mr. Dershowitz has also made broad
public denials of misconduct unrestricted to any specific timeframe. We are entitled to

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014115
