including royalty, politicians, academicians, businessmen, and/or other professional and personal acquaintances,” which, Edwards

elsewhere claims, are “categories Clinton and acquaintances of Clinton fall into.”

Police reports entered into the record go into stomach-wrenching detail about Epstein’s alleged exploits with the girls and women he
recruited and paid for massages that became sexual acts, and mention other women participating as well. Epstein’s longtime friend,
the socialite Ghislaine Maxwell, is accused of taking part, while his personal assistant, Sarah Kellen, is described procuring young

woman for him.

But neither of those women has ever said a word about Clinton being involved. Maxwell, for her part, has never been deposed. She
canceled a deposition in 2010, claiming she had to return to England indefinitely due to family illness, but was soon thereafter

photographed by Us Week/y at Chelsea Clinton’s wedding in Rhinebeck, New York.
es
The father of
the bride “was

nodding his head
at guests, but

yon cei eae, _ From the bling to bi
part was prepped {

says a source.

The Venue
Five hundred guests conven:
White—designed, century-ol
mansion in Rhinebeck for th
b Awaiting out-of-towners? Fe
full of goodies including Cher

View this image >
Us Weekly

For her part, Kellen, who won immunity from prosecution along with Epstein in 2007, did sit for a deposition, but repeatedly pleaded

the Fifth, refusing to even say if she’d ever even met the former president.
Epstein’s much-discussed flight logs show fairly conclusively that she has.

A review of the handwritten documents shows Clinton taking 13 trips in Epstein’s specially outfitted Boeing 727, including a much-
discussed trip to Africa with Kevin Spacey and Chris Tucker. In every single instance, the logs show, Kellen was also on the plane, as
was Epstein. That may sound suspicious, except for the fact that Kellen has been described as Epstein’s right hand, profoundly involved
in his professional activities as well as personal ones. Indeed, Doug Band, Clinton’s personal aide, was on all but one of the flights the

former president took on Epstein’s jet.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022680
