transition of the egg from beneath the
warmth and safety of the mother to atop
the feet and under a fold of feathered
abdominal skin of the father requires a
bit of coordination on the part of the
two. Even this is not sufficient for the
genes of this pair to find their way into
the gene pool. The conditions of the
Antarctic winters are among the least
hospitable on earth, with winter
temperatures dipping below -60 degrees
Celsius and winds reaching 120 mph.
To protect themselves from the wind and
cold, the male penguins huddle together,
spending much of their time sleeping to
conserve energy. In this harsh
environment, survival of the chicks
depends on the shared warmth and
protection of the huddle, not the
individual. The group as a whole is
more likely to survive if each penguin
and chick shares in the warmth and
protection of the collective structure,
which means selective pressures exist to
promote cooperation to maintain the
integrity of the huddle. More generally,
for species born to a period of utter
dependency, the genes that find their
way into the gene pool are not defined
solely or even mostly by likelihood that
an organism will reproduce but by the
likelihood that the offspring of the parent
will live long enough to reproduce. As
in the case of the Emperor penguins, one
consequence is that selfish genes
evolved through individual-level
selection processes to promote social
preferences and group processes,
including reciprocal social behaviors,
that can extend beyond kin relationships
(e.g., 5). Examples of such selection
processes in humans exist, as well (e.g.,
6, 7).

The environmental challenges
facing Emperor penguins, as daunting as
they are, pale by comparison to the

Page |21

complexities facing the human species.
Indeed, the social brain hypothesis posits
that the social complexities and demands
of primate species contributed to the
rapid increase in neocortical (1.e., the
outer layer of the brain) connectivity and
intelligence (8). Warfare among
ancestral hunter-gatherers appears to
have contributed to group selection for
human social behaviors, especially
altruistic behaviors (5). As Darwin
(1871) noted:

A tribe including many members
who, from possessing a high
degree of the spirit of patriotism,
fidelity, obedience, courage, and
sympathy, were always ready to
aid one another, and to sacrifice
themselves for the common good
would be victorious over most
other tribes; and this would be
natural selection. (p. 166)

Moreover, deducing better ways
to find food, avoid perils, and navigate
territories has adaptive value for large
mammals, but the complexities of these
ecological demands are no match for the
complexities of social living (especially
in hostile between-group social
environments), which include:
recognizing ingroup and outgroup
members; learning by social observation;
recognizing the shifting status of friends
and foes; anticipating and coordinating
efforts between two or more individuals;
using language to communicate, reason,
teach, and deceive others; orchestrating
relationships, ranging from pair bonds
and families to friends, bands, and
coalitions; navigating complex social
hierarchies, social norms and cultural
developments; subjugating self-interests
to the interests of the pair bond or social
group in exchange for the possibility of
long term benefits for oneself or one’s
group; recruiting support to sanction

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021267
