Onn WF WHY PH

ann mnF® WDM FB

A. What does it say? Say it again.

Q. It says, The first deposition occurred on
July 27th,” correct?

A. Yes.

Q. Some three days after the federal complaint
was filed, correct, that we referenced earlier?

A. That's correct.

Q. And Paragraph 6 clearly delineates that in
August 2009 a phone call was received by the
cooperating witness that explained that this
Mr. Rodriguez had a list of other purported victims or
contact information for people who Mr. Edwards could
also potentially bring Jawsuits for -- on behalf of;
is that correct?

A. ] don't know one way or the other. You
know, Tonja, just so this record is clear, you know,
as ]'m sitting here, ] have a vague recollection of
perhaps Ken Jenne coming, talking to me and telling me
that someone in my office was going to cooperate with
someone in this investigation. But for the life of
me, } can't be certain of that. So much time has
passed, but as J'm reading this, and it could be
completely unrelated to this, ] just want to make sure
the record is a hundred percent clear, it's possible
that Ken Jenne discussed that with me, but ] don't

Page 74

know who it was.

Q. You are testifying that you didn't know it
had anything to do with the Epstein case, as you sit
here now, you don't remember?

A.* No, no, | don't have a specific
recollection, and ] want to just make sure so ] answer
all your questions completely, is that as I'm sitting
here my recollection was refreshed that ] have a vague
recollection of having a conversation with Ken Jenne
about the fact that someone in our office was going to
cooperate as a confidential informant for some law
enforcement agency, | just can't remember if it was
the Epstein case or not.

Q. Do you recall what you said to Mr. Jenne
about that?

A. No. What 1 just related to you is all 1
remember. And |'m not even sure it had anything to do
with this.

Q. Who's Wayne Black?

A. Who?

Q. Wayne Black.

A. Sounds like the name of someone | hired, but
1 could be mistaken. ] don't recall.

Q. Okay. You don't recall ever meeting
Mr. Black?

se tanta ai chage secrete

|

tag PN None neL tenes oom cI ere!

soa SENG ar at cere ne een ara ari A pe a inne
OB WNE DMO WAIA YP WNFOUW DWwAInan OB WNP

MMNYMNMYNHY NYFF EPP PPE BEB

sn

Zz
2g

Oo pWNHrF OW MAA OO HBWNHEPOUODAIHRDATAWNEHE

 SERSIICRITGLSGAIR NAAR ADT NS PSNR PE POT NU EE EE EN SEE LPN MESSE AE SEE MES ROE ES ITN RE ERE EAN RA EE EPR OR ES
NMONNONNYNEE RPP EPP PPP

A. | may have. | don't recall one way or the
other. You have something that might refresh my
recollection?

Q. Do you know what he does for a living?

A. |] do know the name. Sounds familiar to me,
but | can't recall one way or the other who he was or
what he did.

Q. Did you instruct your office to begin
investigating Mr. Epstein's pilot or his airplanes?

A. J do not recal) one way or the other.

Q. You did testify that the flight manifest was
the one document you recall] for sure looking at in
Mr. Epstein's case; is that correct?

A. Yes.

Q. And if it did, in fact, contain the names
that you are purporting that it claimed or that you
knew of, that would be something that would be juicy
for the investors to further your Ponzi scheme that it
was a collectible case; is that true?

A. I'm sorry, you have to repeat the question,
Tonja. | don't understand what you just asked me.

Q. If these big names were on this list, as you
seem to recal] they were, that would be most helpful
to you and your Ponzi scheme investors in convincing
them it was a big case, right?

Page 76

A. Ifthey were on there, or if ] lied to them

and told them they were on there, or if Adler told me

they were on there and | repeated, ali those things
would have been helpful to the Ponzi scheme.

Q. You stated earlier that you -- the only
thing you looked at was the flight manifest because
you were told to look at it. Is that still true?

A. That's not what I testified to. J testified
that I flipped through other parts of the file and
that I didn’t remember what J had flipped through. |
remember looking at the flight manifest because
Mr. Adler told me about it.

Q. You said that you met these investors in
your office, but there were no cameras in your office,
correct?

A. I didn't have cameras specifically in my
office.

Q. You had these investors in your office for
this particular Epstein case?

A. Yes.

Q. Do you recall if it was during work hours or
after work hours?

A. Ido not recall.

Q. Typically when you were meeting with your
potential Ponzi investors, did you meet them during
Page 77

20 (Pages 74 to 77)

FRIEDMAN, LOMBARDI & OLSON

305-371-6677
5ed93085-0554-4471-bcdd-ca2d8fe941 df

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017509
