rERSON

Jear, you wouldn't do more.

5 concerned. What did she tell
m?

vall, when she came downstairs
tairs, me and her and [redacted],
o the car. And I-was like, “How
e, “Three hundred dollars.” And 1
»w right then she did more.

right?

was like, “Well, what'd you do?”
siving a massage, and then my
ow, he put his fingers inside me.
> massager.” And that’s basically

| talk to me. It’s all right.

talking about it, now that I—I
m.

know what, we all go through
at | mean? It’s an experience. And

- behind you.

you brought over —how did you
were going to have to do this..-
rk, how did you approach them?

in Palm Beach?”
rere my friends. The others were,

was a little more easier talking t0 ©

I knew them.

62

Fittuy Ricu

RECAREY: Take a deep breath. Take a deep breath. Cause I can
see you're working up again. You're working up the tears, I
can see it, and I don’t want to get you like that.

DOBBS: I, um, pretty much I just would ask them—

RECAREY: Straight up?

DOBBS: “If you're looking for extra money, let me know; this guy
down in Palm Beach, he’s really, really, really wealthy. You
have to give him a massage.” That's all I would tell them.
Then, if they were interested or told me, “Yes, I want to do i?
Id go into detail with them before they’d actually agree. If
they told me, “Yeah, that sounds good, I’m interested,” then
I'd tell them, “Okay, well I’m gonna let you know, this is what
you have to do, this is what’s gonna go on.”

RECAREY: Did you tell them that you were going to make money
from bringing them over? Or —

DOBBS: Most part? I believe they knew....Most of the girls, we
were open about that. We didn’t— they pretty much knew I
was making money under the table. So...

RECAREY: Okay. Gimme two seconds. Let me get the soda....
Gimme two seconds.

All right, I talked to my boss a little bit—

FRICK:— Which is why I’m here.

DOBBS: Okay.

FRICK: Obviously I was listening to what you were saying. And
at this point you clearly implicated yourself on a crime, okay?
You've taken girls to somebody’s house for the purpose of
Prostitution. More importantly, more significantly, one of
those girls was fourteen at the time, okay? Now that’s a pretty
Significant second-degree felony, okay? I’m not going to kid

63

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019179
