The Crime Scene Investigation | 135

communications intelligence. It provided a valuable window on the
activities of adversary nations in the Pacific region and was able to
monitor the ballistic missile tests and submarine activities of China,
North Korea, and Russia. By 2013, the Kunia base had a vast array
of state-of-the-art technology, including ninety Cray supercom-
puters arranged in a horseshoe configuration, used to decipher and
make sense of the intercepted signals from China, Russia, and North
Korea. At the heart of the Hawaiian complex was a unit with both
military and civilian employees. A large share of the civilians who
ran the computers worked under two-year contracts with the NSA’s
leading civilian contractor, Booz Allen Hamilton.

General Alexander, who, as I said, headed the NSA in 2013, first
learned about an impending story in The Guardian on June 4, while
he was in Germany meeting with its top intelligence officials, from
Janine Gibson, The Guardian’s American website editor. She had
notified the NSA it intended to break a story focusing on the organi-
zation. It took NSA counterintelligence less than forty-eight hours
to determine that a civilian employee at the base from which docu-

© ments were stolen had not reported back to work on May 22. His ©
civilian supervisor had delayed reporting the absence to the NSA
until May 28. It also determined that the missing civilian employee,
Snowden, had lied on his application for a medical leave and had
flown to Hong Kong. Personal records showed he was being trained
as an analyst at the Threat Operations Center and had worked there
for less than six weeks. He had taken the medical leave on May 18
and left the country by plane. By June 6, he had become the NSA’s
main suspect.

Alexander flew to Washington, D.C., after assigning the sensi-
tive job of investigating the breach to a team headed by Richard
“Rick” Ledgett, who was then director of the NSA’s Threat Opera-
tions Center at the NSA’s headquarters in Fort Meade, Maryland.
Ledgett was the logical choice to head the damage assessment inves-
tigation because the center’s regional branch in Hawaii was under
his command. Ledgett flew to Hawaii, where his first task was to
reconstruct the chronology of Snowden’s moves, or, as the tactic is
called in counterintelligence parlance, “walking the cat back.”

The NSA had also notified the FBI of Snowden’s possible involve-

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 135 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019623
