109

in the United States, the activity was not in violation of laws against foreign campaign
activity.*

“Exporting” Corrupt or Unethical Business Practices

China scores poorly on international indices of corruption.*° As Chinese companies

expand abroad, it is possible that they could have a deleterious effect simply by exporting
suspect business practices. An industry of particular importance is banking. The “big four”
Chinese banks all operate in the United States, where their assets have increased sevenfold
between 2010 and 2016 to $126.5 billion.” They are often extensively involved in real estate
transactions of Chinese firms operating in the United States. In 2015, 2016, and 2018, China
Construction Bank,** the Agricultural Bank of China, and Industrial & Commercial Bank
of China*® were respectively subject to enforcement action by the Federal Reserve for not
doing enough to fight money laundering.

Chinese corporations in the United States can also hinder the rule of law in other ways.
When responding to lawsuits in US courts, Chinese state-owned enterprises have claimed
exemption due to sovereign immunity; in other instances, Chinese firms with an American
legal presence have refused to comply with US investigations by claiming that cooperation
would violate Chinese law.*' These actions inhibit the ability of the US government to
regulate commerce and put American competitors at a disadvantage within their own
country.

Chinese Manipulation of American Companies as a Vector of Influence”

American companies play a significant role in American foreign and domestic politics and
their leaders regularly are selected to take positions of leadership in government. As a result,
corporate America’s traditional role in favor of engagement with China, given the country’s
market potential, has had significant weight in American policy toward the country.”
China, for its part, welcomed foreign companies’ investment as part of its policy of reform
and opening up in the hope of spurring economic development.

China’s relationship with corporate America has become increasingly fraught. In this report
and elsewhere, China’s state-directed efforts to facilitate the theft of intellectual property,
the lifeblood of developed economies, are well documented. China’s forced transfer of
technology by foreign firms, as a condition of operating in China, is one of the main
complaints of both the Trump administration and the European Union.

But China’s ability to pressure US companies also encompasses three other more elusive
dimensions. First, recognizing the importance of American companies in American
politics, China has frequently cultivated, even leveraged, American executives to

lobby against policies it opposes. Where cultivation fails, it has threatened or exercised

Section 7

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020568
