COWEN
COLLABORATIVE INSIGHTS

80

February 25, 2019

European Landscape

European Parliament Resolution

In February 2019, the European Parliament passed a significant resolution to create
harmonized policies and standardized practices for medical cannabis products in the EV.
The Parliament stressed the importance of conducting clinical trials, which requires a
formal assessment of socio-economic and regulatory barriers that have prohibited
access to research in the past. This is not a legislative, binding resolution; the European
Commission will need to consider a regulatory framework that permits access and
availability to cannabis medicine, therapies and scientific studies.

The European Parliament explicitly stated support for the WHO's recommendations to
institutionalize the medical and scientific uses of cannabis. Having these two
international institutions aligned on standardizing medical cannabis policies will
facilitate support for interstate agreements and trade, and paves way for rapid
legislative change and growth.

EU Standards And Regulations

There is not a supranational regulatory framework for cannabis in the EU. However,
general standards, such as Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP), Good Agricultural and
Collection Practice and Good Distribution Practice, are now significant for cannabis
compliance. Licenses and authorization must be obtained for certification. This is
especially required for pharmaceutical grade cannabis, which is why many Canadian LPs
can export to Europe and made investments to build GMP-certified facilities. Although
not necessary for non-prescribed cannabis, products with GMP-certification have
trusted quality recognition across the EU.

In the EU, the legal limit for THC content is less than 0.2%, in comparison to North
America where it is less than 0.3% THC. There are some disparities across the continent
with higher margins in Italy (up to 0.6%) and various import requirements country to
country. Outside of the EU, Switzerland permits up to 1% THC content, which is treated
as a tobacco substitute.

EU Novel Food

Recently, CBD has been added to the European Union's (EU) Novel Food Catalogue.
Foodstuff may be supplements, ingredients or other substance forms. A “novel” food is a
product not previously consumed in the EU, to a significant degree, prior to May 15,
1997, such as for example, foods that enter the market through new technology or
agricultural products normally consumed and grown outside of the EU (e.g. chia seeds,
vitamin K, UV treated food).

Amendments to the Catalogue occur frequently and provide a regulatory framework for
EU Member States (MS) to follow. Some MS (i.e. UK, France, Germany, Italy, and
Holland) requested to update the catalogue with CBD and hemp-derived products. The
European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) is now conducting a risk assessment for CBD.
This categorization includes pure CBD extracts and products that contain CBD extracts.
The EFSA’s assessment is limited to a daily intake of 130 milligrams. The outcome of the
review is expected in March 2019. By October 2019, the European Commission will
release a draft act to authorize CBD in the updated Catalogue.

While the EFSA assesses CBD, some countries have already banned the sale of CBD and
removed product from the shelves (e.g. France, Austria). MS may have their national
food or health agencies provide further guidance for CBD products and preparations.
Obtaining authorization for CBD and hemp-derived products (e.g. tinctures, edibles,

COWEN.COM

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024896
