28 MICHAEL WOLFF

That Friday morning, he came down from the residence into the
Oval Office in a full-on rage so violent that, for a moment, his hair came
undone. To the shock of the people with him, there stood an almost
entirely bald Donald Trump.

The president’s sudden change of heart sent the entire Republican
Party into a panic. If Trump carried out his threat not to sign the bill, he
would bring on what they most feared: a shutdown. And he might well
blame the shutdown on his own party.

Mark Meadows, the head of the House Freedom Caucus and a |

staunch Trump ally in Congress, called the president from Europe to say
that after the vote on Thursday afternoon most members had left town for
the congressional recess. Congress wouldn't be able to undo the previous
day’s vote, and the shutdown was due to commence in mere hours.

Mitch McConnell rushed Defense Secretary Jim Mattis into action to
tell the president that American soldiers would not be paid the next day if
he didn't sign the bill. This was a repeat performance: Mattis had issued a
similar warning during a threatened shutdown in January.

“Never... never... never... again; Trump shouted, pounding the
desk after each “never.”

Once again he caved and agreed to sign the bill. But he vowed that
next time there would be billions upon billions for the Wall or there really
would be a shutdown. Really. Really.

*

Bannon had been here before, so many times.

“Dude, he’s Donald fucking Trump,’ said Bannon, holding his head
and sitting at his table in the Embassy the day after the president signed
the bill.

Bannon was not confused: he had a clear understanding of how great
a liability Trump could be to Bannon’s own vision and career. To the ner-
vous titers of the people around him, Bannon believed he was the man of
populist destiny and not Donald Trump.

The urgency here was real. Bannon believed he represented the
workingman against the corporate-governmental-technocratic machine
whose constituency was the college-educated. In Bannon’s romantic view,

oe ]

SIEGE 29

the workingman smelled of cigarettes, crushed your hand in his, and was
hard as brick—and not from working out in a gym. This remembrance
of things past, of (if it ever existed) a leveled world where a workingmar
was proud of his work and identity, was inspiring, Bannon believed, :
global anger. It was a revolution—this worldwide unease and fear anc
day-by-day upending of liberal assumptions—and it was his. The globa
hegemon was in his sights. He was the man behind the curtain—and h
might as well be in front of it, too—trying to snatch the world back fron
its postmodern anomie and restore something like the homogenized an:
neighborly embrace of 1962.

And China! And the coming Gétterdammerung! To Bannon, thi
was way-of-life stuff. China was the Russia of 1962—but smarter, mor
tenacious, and more threatening. American hedge funders, in their secre
support of China against the interests of the American middle class, wet
the new fifth column.

How much of this did Trump understand? How much was Trum
committed to the ideas that moved Bannon and, by some emotion
osmosis, the base? Trump was more than a year in, and not a shovelful
dirt had yet been dug for the Wall, nor a penny allocated. The Wall ar
so much else that was part of Bannon’s populist revolution—the detai
of which he had once listed on whiteboards in his White House offic

expecting to check each one off—were entirely captive to Trump's inatte:
tion and wild mood swings. Trump, Bannon had long ago learned, “does:
give a fuck about the agenda—he doesn't know what the agenda is.”

4% +

In late March, after the gloom of the budget bill disaster had lifted, the
was a brief, optimistic moment for the faithful in Trump’s inner circle.

Chief of Staff John Kelly, fed up with Trump—just as Trump was f
up with him—seemed surely on the way out. Kelly had joined the Wh
House, replacing Reince Priebus, Trump’s first chief of staff, in Aug)
2017, charged with bringing management discipline to a chaotic W
Wing. But by mid-fall, Trump was circumventing Kelly’s new prox
dures. Jared and Ivanka—with many of the new rules designed to c'
tail their open access to the president—were going over his head.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021138
