Alfre Woodard hosted a down and dirty girls night out in a rented house above Sunset for Viola Davis
and Octavia Spencer.

Universal honcho Ron Meyer hosted a civilized private buffet at his Malibu home for Graydon Carter
with Tom Cruise, Leonardo DiCaprio, Barbra Streisand, Tom Hanks and Michael Douglas.

Stunning socialite Betsey Bloomingdale gave a seated dinner at her Holmby Hills home for best friends
Nancy Reagan, Wendy Stark, Bob Colacello, Joan Collins and fashion icon Lynn Wyatt.

Tobias Meyer, auctioneer for Sotheby’s and art dealer Mark Fletcher hosted an open house at their
Mulholland Drive home for English avant garde photographer Terry Richardson. This is the only pre-
Oscar party where a guest dropped his pants and mooned the red carpet and Terry signed a fans breast.

Friday, February 24

At the BHH | ran into David Heyman, English producer of the Harry Potter franchise who was honored
at the Publicists Awards lunch at The Beverly Hilton. “Motion Picture Showman of the Year” was the
consolation prize for being snubbed by the Academy for visualizing a publishing miracle for children
around the world.

“Nobbs” whisked me off to the British Film Reception hosted by Je

and the British Consul-General Dame Barbara Hay, in her Haneaek Paik residehiae.
Upon introduction, | blurted out that my friend Lord Astor, was interested in having LA people get to
know his son-in-law, Prime Minister David Cameron. As an appointed diplomat she was horrified by my
indiscretion and turned to greet the next American idiot. | was just making conversation.

Daldry told Sony’s Sir Howard Stringer and astute film CEO Michael Lynton, Kenneth Branagh, Janet
McTeer, he, as executive producer of the Olympics, was headed back to
London to events, including the opening ceremony, directed by Danny Boyle.

Victoria Beckham made a dramatic sullen last-minute appearance looking perfectly skinny in her own
designed dress.

At the Women in Film party at Cecconi's, Gwyneth Paltrow, Shailene Woodley, Selena Gomez and

Vanessa Hudgens networked with Jessica, Octavia and Viola now of social stamina fame.

Blythe Danner kissed me at the door as a military type looked on. | kept saying to him, Where have we
met? Nowhere. He was astronaut Mark E. Kelly who came with Blythe and is married to former
congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, Paltrow's second cousin. Only | could mistake an astronaut for a
movie marketing guy.

Vanity Fair feted Scorsese and The Film Foundation which has saved 555 films in 22 years. Cocktails were
at the restored Bel-Air Hotel. Honorary Jewess Lorraine Bracco ran past me yelling she was late for
Ronald Perelman's Shabbat dinner. Three, three-time Oscar winners: composer Howard Shore, costume
designer Sandy Powell and editor Thelma Schoonmaker were honored. Sir Ben Kingsley, Danny Huston,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013445
