James PATTERSON

Some wait a year before making their way to the courthouse,

their date with the public defender, and an appearance before

the judge. Some get out much sooner, if only they can make bail.

But there’s no bail without money— or at least collateral—and, .

of course, being without money is often what lands people in jail

in the first place.
Jeffrey Epstein could have posted bail for every single inmate

in the Gun Club. ‘a
But that’s just one of the ways in which Epstein is unlike his q

fellow inmates. He’s an admitted pedophile now. Even a famous one.

And, famously, pedophiles tend to fare poorly in jail.
Luckily for Epstein, Ric Bradshaw, the sheriff in charge of
sfers Epstein to the infirmary, where he spends

Sheriff Ric Bradshaw: June

local jails, tran
exactly one night before being transferred seven miles up the
road to a much smaller, safer location: the Palm Beach County

Central Detention Center — or, as it's known, the Stockade.
” Ric Bradshaw says.

“It’s not somewhere we'd put a serial killer,
Most of the residents here are addicts who take part in drug E
utes, petty criminals, and drunks.

ur job,” says Ric Brads]
killed him.”
Sheriff Bradshaw co

education programs, prostit Western. Imposingly tall, witt

r safer place for Epstein to be, and, unlike other inmates
n solitary), he'll end up with ii

which he has to himself. 3

q mustache, and slow, southern

| old-school law officer—the ki
4 patrolling the streets of Tombst
q He’s been a lawman for forty-fc
4 been spent as the head of the co
4 talk to the media, and today, as
| he's clearly uncomfortable, fidge
7 But here in his wood-panele
peun Club, Bradshaw remembers
i “We have a thousand sexua
pays. “When he arrived here, he

It's a fa
(except, of course, those being held i
his own cell, even his own wing,

wed to pay for a security guard, who sits outside the ~

Epstein’s allo
ors.

cell and keeps watch. And he's allowed any number of visit

For a convicted felon, it’s an extraordinary benefits package. i
Sheriff Bradshaw, who also oversees the Stock:
s receiving. 7
son at all,” Brad-|

But according to
ade, Epstein is incredulous over the treatment hei
“He was astonished that he had to go to pri

shaw remembers.
“Let’s just say he didn't think he belonged there.”

200

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022008
