interpretation that if Internet solicitation can be considered interstate
commerce, so can telephone solicitation, permitting them to begin a deep
dive investigation into Epstein’s friends, many of whom receive subpoenas
and are threatened with prosecution.

It’s all quite in the eye of the beholder: On the one end, Epstein is
paying for sex acts (Epstein paid $200 for a massage with or without happy
ending), on the other, he is abusing teenage girls. It’s a catch-22: How cana
girl not old enough to vote be a prostitute? And yet, many girls not old
enough to vote are prostitutes.

Compounding Epstein’s predicament, the world outside of his
carefully constructed and controlled environment is someplace that he seems
not just ill-equipped to handle but in which he seems to be blindly grouping
about (i.e. he’s totally tone deaf). I visited him once during this time and
found him weighing the conflicting advice of some of the most vaunted and
egomaniacal lawyers (along with Dershowitz and Black, celebrity criminal
attorney, Gerald Lefcourt, and Clinton prosecutor, Ken Starr) of the
day—anyone with new advice, Epstein seemed to hire—as well as a catchall
of the leading crisis managers, who he seemed to retain at will, all wrangling
for fees and primacy.

Certainly, the upshot of his dealings with the Justice Department seem
to involve a through-the-looking-glass logic. The government threatens
to prosecute him (with the possibility of a 10-year sentence) and
various friends, associates, and lovers, or offers an ass-backwards
sort of deal in which Epstein’s lawyers have to go to the Palm Beach
authorities and get them to agree to charge him with an offense that
will send him to jail and get him a sex offender status. Except that a
solicitation charge won't produce that result. Therefore he has to
agree also to a procurement or pimping charge (even though he has
paid money, not received it—the sine qua non of pimping). What’s
more, he has to agree to pay the legal fees of any of the girls who
want to sue him—and, not to defend himself from their suits—forcing
him to settle with each of the girls for what are reportedly high 6-figure
sums or more.

He’s sentence to jail in 2008 for 18 months and serves 13 (while
Epstein is now frequently accused of somehow managing to cut short
his sentence, almost all Florida prisoners serve only 70% of their
officially sentenced time).

This hardly ends the legal catch all. Epstein's butler, Alfredo
Rodriguez, steals and tries to sell an alleged journal or calendar with

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022723
