78 Teaching Minds

Students who complete Algebra II are more than twice as
likely to graduate from college compared to students with less
mathematical preparation.'

The natural assumption here is that we must hurry up and teach
more Algebra II, of course. Except that obviously is not what is going
on; it just serves the interests of those who wrote the report to put it
that way. Here is another statement from that report:

Students who depended on their native intelligence learned less
than those who believed that success depended on how hard
they worked.

The claim is simply this: If you work harder, you get into college.
Now the question is: Why are the writers of this report claiming that
the thing that students have to work harder at is Algebra II?

It is easy enough to see why this panel decided that. At stake was a
$100 million federal budget request for Math Now, and the people who
were on the panel were people who would receive that funding. Uni-
versity professors issue reports asking for grant money to be approved
that state that the nation will not succeed without that grant money.
Vested interests are nothing new. I am sometimes amazed that no one
points this stuff out, however. It is well established that everyone must
know algebra. The fact that this is well established by those who make
money on the teaching of algebra is never brought up by the New York
Times, which published a lead article on the report, or by anyone else,
it seems.

My favorite part of the Times article was the following:

Dr. Faulkner, a former president of the University of Texas at
Austin, said the panel “buys the notion from cognitive science
that kids have to know the facts.”

Dr. Faulkner, let me point out, is a chemist, and I am pretty sure
he doesn’t really know much about cognitive science. But cognitive
science has been used of late to justify a great deal of what is wrong
in education. E.D. Hirsch, an English professor at the University of
Virginia, made a career of making lists of stuff every kid should know.
When cognitive scientists trashed this work as nonsense, he cited the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023824
