268 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

“T was impressed by how few takes he needed to shoot my scene,”
he answered.

“How did you come to be Snowden’s lawyer?” I asked.

“Snowden picked me from a roster of fifteen lawyers with which
he had been provided.”

Because Snowden did not speak or read Russian, I asked Kucher-
ena about how Snowden had come to pick him from the roster. Could
he have known about his connections?

“I suppose it was because of my record in defending human
rights,” Kucherena replied with a broad smile.

Kucherena went to Sheremetyevo International Airport to meet
his new client on the morning of Friday, July 12, 2013. At that point,
he said that Snowden had been held virtually incommunicado for
twenty days. Other than Russian officials, the only person he had
been allowed to see during this period was Assange’s aide, Sarah
Harrison.

“Where in the airport did you meet him?” I asked. “Was it in a
VIP lounge?”

© “Tt was in the transit zone,” he replied coyly. “That is all I can say.” ©

They spoke through a translator. By this time, Harrison had sent
twenty-one countries petitions for asylum that were signed by
Snowden. Whatever their purpose, Kucherena did not consider them
helpful.

“T told him that if he wanted to get sanctuary in Russia, he would
have to immediately withdraw all the petitions in which he had
asked other countries for asylum.” Kucherena said that otherwise he
could not represent him. Snowden agreed to that condition.

Shortly before 5:00 p.m., Kucherena accompanied Snowden, who
was wearing an open-neck blue shirt and a badly creased jacket, to
area Gg in the transit zone, where they emerged from a door marked
“Authorized Personnel Only.” A number of officials in dark suits,
who Kucherena assumed were from the “special services” to protect
Snowden, were already in the room. Snowden and Harrison seated
themselves at a table. A Russian translator was also seated at the
table. At this point, thirteen invitees were ushered into the room
to witness Snowden’s first public appearance in Russia. It was rare

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.indd 268 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019756
