And yet, contravening all cultural and media logic, Donald Trump produced on a daily
basis an astonishing, can’t-stop-following-it narrative. And this was not even because he
was changing or upsetting the fundamentals of American life. In six months as president,
failing to master almost any aspect of the bureaucratic process, he had, beyond placing his
nominee on the Supreme Court, accomplished, practically speaking, nothing. And yet,
OMG!!! There almost was no other story in America—and in much of the world. That was
the radical and transformational nature of the Trump presidency: it held everybody’s
attention.

Inside the White House, the daily brouhaha and world’s fascination was no cause for
joy. It was, in the White House staff’s bitter view, the media that turned every day into a
climactic, dastardly moment. And, in a sense, this was correct: every development cannot
be climactic. The fact that yesterday’s climax would soon, compared to the next climax, be
piddling, rather bore out the disproportion. The media was failing to judge the relative
importance of Trump events: most Trump events came to naught (arguably all of them
did), and yet all were greeted with equal shock and horror. The White House staff believed
that the media’s Trump coverage lacked “context’”—by this, they meant that people ought
to realize that Trump was mostly just huffing and puffing.

At the same time, few in the White House did not assign blame to Trump for this as
well. He seemed to lack the most basic understanding that a president’s words and actions
would, necessarily, be magnified to the nth power. In some convenient sense, he failed to
understand this because he wanted the attention, no matter how often it disappointed him.
But he also wanted it because again and again the response surprised him—and, as though
every time was the first time, he could not modify his behavior.

Sean Spicer caught the brunt of the daily drama, turning this otherwise reasonable,
mild-mannered, process-oriented professional into a joke figure standing at the White
House door. In his daily out-of-body experience, as a witness to his own humiliation and
loss for words, Spicer understood after a while—although he began to understand this
beginning his first day on the job when dealing with the dispute about the inaugural
audience numbers—that he had “gone down a rabbit hole.” In this disorienting place, all
public artifice, pretense, proportion, savvy, and self-awareness had been cast off, or—
possibly another result of Trump never really intending to be president—never really
figured into the state of being president.

On the other hand, constant hysteria did have one unintended political virtue. If every
new event canceled out every other event, like some wacky news-cycle pyramid scheme,
then you always survived another day.

OOK Ok

Donald Trump’s sons, Don Jr., thirty-nine, and Eric, thirty-three, existed in an enforced
infantile relationship to their father, a role that embarrassed them, but one that they also

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020074
