At a Glance: Where You Will Be

The future is here. It’s just not widely distributed yet.
— WILLIAM GIBSON, author of Neuromancer; coined term “cyberspace” in 1984

H.. is a sneak preview of full automation.

I woke up this morning, and given that it’s Monday, I checked my e-mail for one hour after an
exquisite Buenos Aires breakfast.

Sowmya from India had found a long-lost high school classmate of mine, and Anakool from YMII
had put together Excel research reports for retiree happiness and the average annual hours worked in
different fields. Interviews for this week had been set by a third Indian virtual assistant, who had also
found contact information for the best Kendo schools in Japan and the top salsa teachers in Cuba. In the
next e-mail folder, I was pleased to see that my fulfillment account manager in Tennessee, Beth, had
resolved nearly two dozen problems in the last week—keeping our largest clients in China and South
Africa smiling—and had also coordinated California sales tax filing with my accountants in Michigan.
The taxes had been paid via my credit card on file, and a quick glance at my bank accounts confirmed
that Shane and the rest of the team at my credit card processor were depositing more cash than last
month. All was right in the world of automation.

It was a beautiful sunny day, and I closed my laptop with a smile. For an all-you-can-eat buffet
breakfast with coffee and orange juice, I paid $4 U.S. The Indian outsourcers cost between $4-10 US.
per hour. My domestic outsourcers are paid on performance or when product ships. This creates a curious
business phenomenon: Negative cash flow is impossible.

Fun things happen when you earn dollars, live on pesos, and compensate in rupees, but that’s just the
beginning.

But Pm an Employee! How Does This Help Me?

Nobody can give you freedom. Nobody can give you equality or justice or anything. If you’re a
man, you take it.

—MALCOLM X, Malcolm X Speaks

GQyrrins a remote personal assistant is a huge departure point and marks the moment that you learn

how to give orders and be commander instead of the commanded. It is small-scale training wheels for the
most critical of NR skills: remote management and communication.

It is time to learn how to be the boss. It isn’t time-consuming. It’s low-cost and it’s low-risk. Whether
or not you “need” someone at this point is immaterial. It is an exercise.

It is also a litmus test for entrepreneurship: Can you manage (direct and chastise) other people? Given
the proper instruction and practice, I believe so. Most entrepreneurs fail because they jump into the deep
end of the pool without learning to swim first. Using a virtual assistant (VA) as a simple exercise with no
downside, the basics of management are covered in a 24-week test costing between $100—400. This is
an investment, not an expense, and the ROI is astounding. It will be repaid in a maximum of 10-14 days,
after which it is pure timesaving profit.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013874
