The FCPA:

Anti-Bribery Provisions

Electricity Commission senior officials to travel to Michigan to inspect Company A's facilities. Because it is a lengthy
international flight, Company A agrees to pay for business class airfare, to which its own employees are entitled
for lengthy flights. The foreign officials visit Michigan for several days, during which the senior officials perform an
appropriate inspection. Company A executives take the officials to a moderately priced dinner, a baseball game,
and a play. Do any of these actions violate the FCPA?

No. Neither the costs associated with training the employees nor the trip for the senior officials to the Company's
facilities in order to inspect them violates the FCPA. Reasonable and bona fide promotional expenditures do not violate
the FCPA. Here, Company A is providing training to the Electricity Commission’s employees and is hosting the Electricity
Commission senior officials. Their review of the execution and performance of the contract is a legitimate business purpose.
Even the provision of business class airfare is reasonable under the circumstances, as are the meals and entertainment,
which are only a small component of the business trip.

Would this analysis be different if Company A instead paid for the senior officials to travel first-class with their
spouses for an all-expenses-paid, week-long trip to Las Vegas, where Company A has no facilities?

Yes. This conduct almost certainly violates the FCPA because it evinces a corrupt intent. Here, the trip does not appear
to be designed for any legitimate business purpose, is extravagant, includes expenses for the officials’ spouses, and therefore
appears to be designed to corruptly curry favor with the foreign government officials. Moreover, if the trip were booked as a
legitimate business expense—such as the provision of training at its facilities—Company A would also be in violation of the
FCPA's accounting provisions. Furthermore, this conduct suggests deficiencies in Company A's internal controls.

Company A's contract with the Electricity Commission is going to expire, and the Electricity Commission is
offering the next contract through its tender process. An employee of the Electricity Commission contacts
Company A and offers to provide Company A with confidential, non-public bid information from Company A's
competitors if Company A will pay for a vacation to Paris for him and his girlfriend. Employees of Company A
accede to the official's request, pay for the vacation, receive the confidential bid information, and yet still do not
win the contract. Has Company A violated the FCPA?

Yes. Company A has provided things of value to a foreign official for the purpose of inducing the official to misuse
his office and to gain an improper advantage. It does not matter that it was the foreign official who first suggested the
illegal conduct or that Company A ultimately was not successful in winning the contract. This conduct would also violate
the FCPA's accounting provisions if the trip were booked as a legitimate business expense and suggests deficiencies in
Company A's internal controls.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022520
