Date: 7/13/06 “PALM BEACH POLICE DEPARTMENT . Page: 65

Time: 9:27:55 Incident Report Program: CMS301L

Case No. ... : 1-05-000 (Continued)
‘cellular phone occurred at 1:02 pm. The call durations

were one minute or less. The time frame was within thirteen minutes
apart. It should be noted that BBB s residence was in close
proximity to the victim's. The next call occurred at 5:50 pm when the
victim telephoned BI s residence. Several calls were made after
the above mentioned calls both incoming and outgoing —
Further analysis showed no telephone calls to either cellular
telephone or MEM residence were registered prior to February 6,
2005.

Additionally, I also conducted an analysis on the telephone calls from
305-710-5165. The subscriber information confirmed that the number is
registered to Paul A Lavery from Hialeah, Florida. The address was
crossed referenced to the Office of Kiraly and Riley Private
Investigators. I researched the web page www.rileykiraly.com which
also showed various cases in which they assisted. I also located
another web site under www. coralspringssparklandrotary.org in which
Mr. Riley attended a Miami Rotary meeting and confirmed Atty. Roy
Black is among his clientele.

The telephone calls revealed Lavery had telephone contact with[
a either just after I attempted to
interview them, or just prior. A background was conducted on Lavery

which revealed he holds a current Private Investigator License. A
criminal arrest record revealed he had been previously arrested for
possession of cocaine and solicitation of prostitution.

I also researched the girls using www.myspace.com. This web site is a

new social networking service that allows members to create unique

personal profiles online in order to find and communicate with old and

new friends. The site allows one to establish your own myspace.com

page and decorate the page any way one wis i
eople have m i 2

I received a Cingular Wireless packet which contained a CD which
contained the results of the subpoena request for verbatim calls on
An analysis will be conducted in the near future on the

phone numbers called.

Investigation Continues.

b7C

b6
b7C

b6
b7c

b6é
b7C

RREKKEREKEREKREEREREKREK RRR NAR RAT IVE # 29 RREEKEKKREKRERKEERERK RRR RKEE
NA Reported By: RECAREY, JOSEPH 12/27/05
Entered By.: ALTOMARO, NICKIE A. 12/29/05

Upon doing research on the message books recovered in the search

warrant cated the identity of The telephone number
es registered to . She Ls
seventeen years old and is attending

b6
b7C

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019018

