When Mark Cuban purchased the Dallas Mavericks on
January 14, 2000, the face of the organization began to
change immediately. Once again Mavericks games had
a party atmosphere as Reunion Arena rocked with the
return of the “Reunion Rowdies.” Mavericks games
became more than just ordinary NBA games—

they were a total entertainment experience.

Cuban was not only successful at instilling a sense
of pride and passion into Mavericks fans by presenting himself
as the ultimate role model by cheering from the same seats he
had in years past, but he also became the first owner in team
sports to encourage fan interaction through e-mail on his
personal computer. It was through this personal touch that
fans throughout the Metroplex, and around the world, began
to notice Cuban’s energetic personality and take notice of
the Mavericks. He has personally responded to thousands
of emails, and several suggestions from fans have led to
innovative changes such as a new three-sided shot clock,
which allows line of site to the 24-second clock from
anywhere in the arena.

Cuban’s whatever-it-takes attitude and commitment
to winning has everyone’s attention. From his first introduction
to the team to the end of his first season as owner, the players
responded with a 31-19 record, including a 9-1 mark in April
2000. In addition to hiring special coaches for offense,
defense and shooting, Cuban has promised to do everything
in his power to improve the team. This goal was achieved as
the club finished the 2000-01 season with a 53-29 record en
route to their first playoff appearance in 11 years where they
became just the sixth team in NBA history to be down o-2 and
come back to win a five-game series vs. Utah in Round 1.

Before the start of the 2001-02 season, American
Airlines Center, the Mavs new home, opened and Cuban
co-founded HDNet, an all high-definition television network
on DIRECTV channel 199 which launched in September
2001. As with his other ventures, Cuban is revolutionizing
the television industry with HDNet. He is planning to expand
HDNet to include three more networks showing high-def
sports, movies and entertainment by the end of 2002.

During the Mavs 2001-02 campaign, the team
continued their winning ways by finishing the season with
a franchise-best record of 57-25 and an NBA-best road
record of 27-14, advancing to the postseason for the
second-consecutive year.

Prior to his purchase of the Mavericks, Cuban co-
founded Broadcast.com, the leading provider of multimedia
and streaming on the Internet, in 1995, selling it to Yahoo!
in July of 1999. Before Broadcast.com, Cuban co-founded
MicroSolutions, a leading National Systems Integrator,
in 1983, and later sold it to CompuServe.

Today, in addition to his ownership of the Mavericks,
Cuban is an active investor in leading and cutting-edge
technologies and continues to be a sought-after speaker.

MARK CUBAN

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017535
