OUP CORRECTED PROOE - FINAL, 10/9/2014, SPi

The Crooked Course Xxxix

conceded that only the United Nations, and not Israel alone, could delineate on a map
and demarcate on the ground the line of withdrawal. Such a line had to be, to the best of
the United Nations’ knowledge, in conformity with Lebanon’s international boundar-
ies. On this basis, and with the consent of the parties, the UN Secretary-General could
then report to the Security Council and eventually recommend that it should confirm
that Israel had ended its occupation. This understanding led to an agreement for the
United Nations to negotiate with the Governments of Lebanon, Syria and Israel.
Through intense, difficult, and stormy tripartite negotiations over five months, the
UN Secretary-General was in May 2000 able to report to the Security Council that the
UN had reached an agreement with Israel, Syria, and Lebanon on a line of withdrawal
(the so-called Blue Line). On this basis, it was determined that Israeli troops had left all
Lebanese territory. Further, he reported that, consistent with UN requirements, Israel’s
Lebanese proxy, the South Lebanese Army (SLA), had been disarmed and disbanded.
Subsequently, the UN Security Council confirmed the end of Israel’s occupation of
Southern Lebanon in fulfillment of Security Council Resolutions 425 and 426 of 1978.

In September 2004, the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 1559. Secretary-
General Kofi Annan appointed me as his special envoy for its implementation. In a
nutshell the resolution called for respect for Lebanon’s sovereignty, territorial integrity,
and political independence; the disbanding and disarming of all Lebanese and non-
Lebanese militias; and the withdrawal of all foreign troops. After Israel’s full withdrawal
from Lebanon in 2000, the only remaining foreign troops were Syrian. Immediately
after the resolution was adopted, I engaged in intense negotiations with President
Assad, who until the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafic Hariri on 14
February 2005, was consistently resistant to move on the issue. On 12 March 2005, I
was airborne with a small UN team, among them Fabrice Aidan, on my way to
Damascus for a new round of talks with the President. Midway, the captain informed
me that he was requested to change course and land in Aleppo. Afterwards I was told
that the reason was to avoid the media who were waiting for the arrival of the UN team
in Damascus. I was picked up at Aleppo airport by Walid Muallem, who was then
Deputy Foreign Minister. He brought me to Assad’s villa, where a few hours of
negotiations resulted in the Aleppo understanding, which outlined Syria’s military
withdrawal from Lebanon with specific timelines. Assad honored his word, and
ended twenty-nine years of Syrian military presence in Lebanon consistent with
Resolution 1559.

What is often forgotten in the recurrent doom and gloom in the Middle East, is that
the step-by-step approach, which started with the Camp David Accords of 1978, has
for more than thirty years led to conflict resolution: peace between Israel and Egypt; the
Oslo Accords; the mutual recognition of Israel and the PLO; the establishment of the
Palestinian Authority in Gaza and the West Bank, which still functions with its
presidency, cabinet, and ministries; peace between Israel and Jordan in 1994, with
the recognition of borders and a long-lasting security cooperation; Israel’s withdrawal
from Southern Lebanon in 2000; and the subsequent Syrian military withdrawal five
years later; as well as Israel’s pull out from the Gaza Strip. All these steps would have
been difficult, if not impossible, without the previous ones.

In 2000 the attempts to put a final end to the Syrian-Israeli and the Palestinian—
Israeli conflicts both failed. This exposes the risks of a totalist approach to solving such

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023171
