On Monday morning, Kellyanne Conway appeared on MSNBC and offered a firm
defense of the National Security Advisor. “Yes,” she said, “General Flynn does enjoy the
full confidence of the president.” And while this seemed to many an indication that
Conway was out of the loop, it was more accurately an indication that she had been
talking directly to the president.

A White House meeting that morning failed to convince Trump to fire Flynn. He was
concerned about what it would look like to lose his National Security Advisor after just
twenty-four days. And he was adamant about not wanting to blame Flynn for talking to
the Russians, even about sanctions. In Trump’s view, condemning his adviser would
connect him to a plot where there was no plot. His fury wasn’t directed toward Flynn but
to the “incidental” wiretap that had surveilled him. Making clear his confidence in his
adviser, Trump insisted that Flynn come to Monday’s lunch with the Canadian prime
minister, Justin Trudeau.

Lunch was followed by another meeting about the furor. There were yet more details of
the phone call and a growing itemization of the money Flynn had been paid by various
Russian entities; there was also increasing focus on the theory that the leaks from the intel
community—that is, the whole Russia mess—was directed at Flynn. Finally, there was a
new rationale that Flynn should be fired not because of his Russian contacts, but because
he had lied about them to the vice president. This was a convenient invention of a chain of
command: in fact, Flynn did not report to Vice President Pence, and he was arguably a
good deal more powerful than Pence.

The new rationale appealed to Trump, and he at last agreed that Flynn had to go.

Still, the president did not waiver in his belief in Flynn. Rather, Flynn’s enemies were
his enemies. And Russia was a gun to his head. He might, however ruefully, have had to
fire Flynn, but Flynn was still his guy.

Flynn, ejected from the White House, had become the first established direct link
between Trump and Russia. And depending on what he might say to whom, he was now
potentially the most powerful person in Washington.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019965
