166 9 General Intelligence in the Everyday Human World

Under the assumption of the Embodied Communication Prior (with the Natural
Knowledge Categories assumption), the property above called “cognitive complete-
ness” is necessary and sufficient for efficient general intelligence at the level of an
inteligent adult human (e.g. at the Piagetan formal level [Pia53]).

Of course, the above considerations are very far from a rigorous mathematical proof (or
even precise formulation) of this hypothesis. But we are presenting this here as a conceptual
hypothesis, in order to qualitatively guide our practical AGI R&D and also to motivate further,
more rigorous theoretical work.

9.3.1 Generalizing the Embodied Communication Prior

One interesting direction for further research would be to broaden the scope of the inquiry, in
a manner suggested above: instead of just looking at the ECP, look at simplicity measures in
general, and attack the question of how a mind must be structured in order to display efficient
general intelligence relative to a specified simplicity measure. This problem seems unapproach-
able in general, but some special cases may be more tractable.

For instance, suppose one has

e asimplicity measure that (like the ECP) is approximately decomposable into a set of fairly
distinct components, plus their interactions

® an assumption similar to NKC, which states that the entities displaying simplicity according
to each of the distinct components, are roughly clustered together in entity-space

Then one should be able to say that, to achieve efficient general intelligence relative to
this decomposable simplicity measure, a system should have distinct capabilities corresponding
to each of the components of the simplicity measure interactions between these capabilities,
corresponding to the interaction terms in the simplicity measure.

With copious additional work, these simple observations could potentially serve as the seed for
a novel sort of theory of general intelligence — a theory of how the structure of a system depends
on the structure of the simplicity measure with which it achieves efficient general intelligence.
Cognitive Synergy Theory would then emerge as a special case of this more abstract theory.

9.4 Naive Physics

Multimodal communication is an important aspect of the environment for which human in-
telligence evolved — but not the only one. It seems likely that our human intelligence is also
closely adapted to various aspects of our physical environment — a matter that is worth carefully
attending as we design environments for our robotically or virtually embodied AGI systems to
operate in.

One interesting guide to the most cognitively relevant aspects of human environments is the
subfield of AI known as “naive physics” [Hay85] — a term that refers to the theories about the
physical world that human beings implicitly develop and utilize during their lives. For instance,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013082
