that he was willing to take on the state power. The outsider against the insiders. After all,
that’s why he was elected.

At some level he had a point. One reason presidents don’t fire the director of the FBI is
that they fear the consequences. It’s the Hoover syndrome: any president can be hostage to
what the FBI knows, and a president who treats the FBI with something less than
deference does so at his own peril. But this president had stood up to the feds. One man
against the unaccountable power that the left had long railed against—and that more
recently the right had taken as a Holy Grail issue, too. “Everybody should be rooting for
me,” the president said to friends, more and more plaintively.

Here was another peculiar Trump attribute: an inability to see his actions the way most
others saw them. Or to fully appreciate how people expected him to behave. The notion of
the presidency as an institutional and political concept, with an emphasis on ritual and
propriety and semiotic messaging—statesmanship—was quite beyond him.

Inside the government, the response to Comey’s firing was a kind of bureaucratic
revulsion. Bannon had tried to explain to Trump the essential nature of career government
officials, people whose comfort zone was in their association with hegemonic
organizations and a sense of a higher cause—they were different, very different, from
those who sought individual distinction. Whatever else Comey might be, he was first and
foremost a bureaucrat. Casting him ignominiously out was yet another Trump insult to the
bureaucracy.

Rod Rosenstein, the author of the letter that ostensibly provided the justification for
firing Comey, now stood in the line of fire. The fifty-two-year-old Rosenstein, who, in
rimless glasses, seemed to style himself as a bureaucrat’s bureaucrat, was the longest-
serving U.S. attorney in the country. He lived within the system, all by the book, his
highest goal seeming to be to have people say he did things by the book. He was a straight
shooter—and he wanted everyone to know it.

All this was undermined by Trump—trashed, even. The brow-beating and snarling
president had hectored the country’s two top law enforcement officials into an ill-
considered or, at the very least, an ill-timed indictment of the director of the FBI.
Rosenstein was already feeling used and abused. And then he was shown to have been
tricked, too. He was a dupe.

The president had forced Rosenstein and Sessions to construct a legal rationale, yet
then he could not even maintain the bureaucratic pretense of following it. Having enlisted
Rosenstein and Sessions in his plot, Trump now exposed their efforts to present a
reasonable and aboveboard case as a sham—and, arguably, a plan to obstruct justice. The
president made it perfectly clear that he hadn’t fired the director of the FBI because he did
Hillary wrong; he fired Comey because the FBI was too aggressively investigating him
and his administration.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020049
