‘eader in the modeling. fashion. entertainment Public relotions. restaurant, and
tourism industries has made Mr. Brune! internationally renowned in nose fields.
Among his various accomplishments throughout his career are the successful
modeling agencies he has founded both in Europe and in the United States. For
example, in 1978. Mr. Brunel founded and grew Karin Models Paris from the
ground up to become oa lgad-market agency with a world-wide presence.
Capturing a sirong market share in Paris, Mr. Brunel successfully created Karin
Modeis as a platform for marquee cllents to obtain sophisticated public retations
services and important modeling contract opporiunities. Mr. Brunel's success
was 50 greai wilh Karin Paris that in the next ten years, he founded Next Model
Management in Los Angeles, California in 1980, Nexi Model Managemen in
Miami, Flotida in 1982, Mode! Management Group alse in Miami, Floricia in 1986,
and Rebecca Commercial Casting in New York City. in 1988. The loiter one was
opened as a talent and casting agency for performers. offering services such as
voice-overs, television, and cinema advertising work. again. successfully carving
oul a niche by which to make his mark and achieve bold commerciai
performance results,

Although Mr. Brunel later sold his rights to Next Management io Faith Kalas
in 1989, whe parinered with Joel Wilkenfeld a couple of years later: NEXT
represents some of the mosi prestigious women and men in the fashion world
today. Star faleni includes renowned fashion models Molly Sims, Doniela
Pesiova, Audrey Quock. Yamila Diaz, and Malgosia Bela. NEXT continues to
mainiain on infivential international force in Ihe foshion and modeling industry
ihrough its fully operational offices in New York. Los Angeles, Miami. Sao Paolo,
Montreal, London. and Paris. as well as iis affiliates in Milan ond Australia,

Because of sirong revenue growth and successful business perlormance.
as a resull of his arlislic vision as an artislic director and tateni coordinator. Mr.
Brunel founded ihe very successful Karin Models of America in New York Cily
and Karin Models USA in Mami Beach. Mr. Brunel's commercial ventures in
opening Karin agencies in Pars. New York, and Miami have been oxiremely
successful. generating combined annua! revenues of twenty five (25) million
dollars. Eveniually. Mr, Brunel kcensed the Karin nome to agencies in Israel,
Denmark. Germany, and Span, Mr. Brunel's extraordinary ialanis are not only
limiied to launching successful modeling businesses. but also in discovering and
launching the careers of some of ine world's most successful models. Mr. Brunel
has launched the extremely successful careers of supermodels such as Chrisly
Turtingion. Rachel Hunter, Sharon Stone, Monica Bellucci, Estella Warren, and
Chistina Semonnovskaya. These women all proceeded to become some of the
mos! phoiographed inlernational cover models in the word. appeoring on
thousands of magazine covers worldwide and spanning many years. ASO resu't
of his teputalion as 4 highly visible, sitategrc networker who cuilivales and
conducts business in a global environment and brokers lucrative deals, many

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011982
