sciences: people are easy to influence, they are too trusting, and they tend to place their trust in the wrong
people. This is the answer of most social psychologists.

They take the famous Asch conformity experiments, in which participants believe a group over the evidence of
their own eyes; and Milgram obedience experiments, in which participants agree to electrocute one another at
the experimenter’s request to show that people are sheep.

Psychologist Daniel Gilbert, a strong proponent of the view that humans are gullible, has even claimed that
people couldn’t help but believe (at first at least) everything they read! Tim Levine, a leading researcher
working on lie detection, thinks that people rely on others to be trustworthy most of the time, and that as a result
they can afford to be so bad at detecting deception. Paul Ekman, the famous emotion researcher, claims that
when we see someone express an emotion, we can’t help but mimic it. No surprise then that crowds and

their emotional members drive each other mad! Robert Boyd, Peter Richerson, and Joseph Henrich, proponents
of the dominant mode of cultural evolution, postulate that people are easily influenced by prestigious individuals
—wherever their prestige comes from—and consensual opinions — whatever their value.

This is also the answer of dominant figures in anthropology and sociology, explaining the persistence of culture
by our tendency to suck in whatever ideas surround us without a second thought; in political science since the
ancient Greeks, explaining the success of demagogues by how easily people follow charismatic leaders, even
toxic ones; and in much social commentary, consider Manufacturing Consent by Edward Herman and Noam
Chomsky as an example.

In Vigilance, I argue that they are wrong.

HUGO MERCIER is a cognitive scientist working for the French National Center for Scientific Research in
Lyon. Previously, he did a postdoc in the Philosophy, Politics and Economics program at the University of
Pennsylvania, and another one at the University of Neuchatel. He has published numerous scholarly articles on
the topic of the book, and has taught some of its contents in Europe and America. He has also made his work
more widely accessible through newspaper articles, blog posts, interviews, and public lectures. The Enigma of
Reason, a co-authored book with Dan Sperber concerning their research on The Argumentative Theory of
Reasoning, 1s scheduled for publication in late May (US: Harvard University Press; UK: Allen Lane), with
several planned translations.

-o

GENETIC RESCUE

Saving Wildlife the Way Evolution Does
By Ryan Phelan, Introduction & Epilogue by Stewart Brand
[Proposal; Delivery: 12-18 months from signed contract; 70,000 — 80,000 words]

Genetic Rescue is the first book to present a critically important and new scientific field emerging through the
synthesis of molecular biology and conservation biology. At the heart of this intersection is the development of a
new tool kit for 21st Century conservation. Advances in comparative genomics, cloning, germ cell transmission,
ancient genome assembly, de-extinction, synthetic DNA, and genome engineering with CRISPR and gene drives
are now being applied to help solve seemingly intractable conservation problems.

Genetic Rescue makes the compelling case for human intervention in situations where the natural evolutionary
process is compromised. It is replete with specific examples of wildlife on the brink (from the black-footed
ferret to the northern white rhino) and the impact of wildlife diseases (amphibians with Chytrid disease and bats

with white-nose syndrome).

Genetic Rescue also presents a provocative new vision for conservation—the development of a 21st Century

Brockman, Inc. Frankfurt 2016 Hotlist
-9.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025155
