In re Terrorist Attacks on September 11, 2001, 392 F.Supp.2d 539 (2005)
10 A.L.R. Fed. 2d 789

[4]

[5]

@ Matters considered in general

Article stating that Islamic aid organizations in
Afghanistan, Bosnia, Somalia, and Tajikistan
provided funds and cover to terrorists would not
be admitted to supplement record on motion to
dismiss in action, arising out of the September
11 terrorist attacks, alleging that two Saudi
officials involved with Islamic charities were
knowingly providing funding for terrorists;
plaintiffs failed to explain why they were only
able to obtain and translate the article on eve of
oral argument, article and its translation were
not authenticated, and article did not say
officials were put on notice regarding specific
charities or that they continued to contribute to
those charities with intent that donations would
assist terrorists.

Cases that cite this headnote

International Law
@ Extent and effect of immunity

Immunity under Foreign Sovereign Immunities
Act (FSIA) extends to agents of a foreign state
acting in their official capacities, inasmuch as a
suit against an individual acting in his official
capacity is the practical equivalent of a suit
against the sovereign directly. 28 U.S.C.A. §
1602 et seq.

1 Cases that cite this headnote

International Law
@ Evidence of immunity, and fact questions

Court is required to give great weight, in
determining whether foreign defendants are
entitled to immunity under the Foreign
Sovereign Immunities Act (FSIA), to any
extrinsic submissions made by the foreign
defendants regarding the scope of their official
responsibilities. 28 U.S.C.A. § 1602 et seq.

2 Cases that cite this headnote

WESTLAW

[6]

[7]

[8]

International Law
@ Corporations and other instrumentalities

Saudi High Commission (SHC) made prima
facie showing it was entitled to immunity, under
Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act (FSIA), in
action alleging it had provided funding for
terrorists; SHC was created by the Council of
Ministers of Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to
provide Kingdom’s aid to Bosnia and was
governed by a Saudi official, its employees were
Saudi civil servants, and it could be sued in the
Kingdom’s administrative court like other Saudi
government agencies, and SHC made no explicit
waiver of its sovereign immunity inasmuch as
any contrary representations by SHC were made
prior to the action. 28 U.S.C.A. § 1602 et seq.

Cases that cite this headnote

International Law
@ Extent and effect of immunity

To extent that complaint, in action alleging
support for terrorist organizations, alleged that
two Saudi officials provided such support
through actions undertaken in their government
positions, officials made prima facie showing of
entitlement to immunity under the Foreign
Sovereign Immunities Act (FSIA). 28 U.S.C.A.
§ 1602 et seq.

Cases that cite this headnote

International Law
Extent and effect of immunity

For jurisdiction over agents of a foreign
government to be proper under torts exception to
Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act (FSIA),
plaintiffs must show that defendants’ tortious
acts caused plaintiffs’ injuries and that
defendants’ actions were not discretionary, L.e.,
not grounded in their governments’ social,
economic, or political policies. 28 U.S.C.A. §
1605(a)(5).

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017905
