NAUTILUS EDUCATION

a negatively charged grid draws the atoms toward the
back of the ship. They overshoot the grid and stream
off into space at speeds 10 times faster than chemical
rocket exhaust (and 100 times faster than a bullet).
For a post-Voyager probe, ion engines would fire for 15
years or so and hurl the craft to several times the Voy-
agers’ speed, so that it could reach a couple of hundred
AU before the people who built it died.

Star flight enthusiasts are also pondering ion drives
for a truly interstellar mission, aiming for Alpha Cen-
tauri, the nearest star system some 300,000 AU away.
Icarus Interstellar, a nonprofit foundation with a mis-
sion to achieve interstellar travel by the end of the cen-
tury, has dreamed up Project Tin Tin—a tiny probe
weighing less than 10 kilograms, equipped with a min-
iaturized high-performance ton drive. The trip would
still take tens of thousands of years, but the group sees
Tin Tin less as a realistic science mission than as a
technology demonstration.

Going Light: Solar Sails

A solar sail, such as the one used by the Japanese
IKAROS probe to Venus, does away with propel-
lant and engines altogether. It exploits the physics of
light. Like anything else in motion, a light wave has

BETA PRODUCT

momentum and push-
es on whatever surface
it strikes. The force is
feeble,
noticeable if you have
a large enough surface,
a low mass, and a lot
of time. Sunlight can
accelerate a large sheet
of lightweight material,
such as Kapton, to an
impressive speed. To
reach the velocity need-
ed to escape the solar
system, the craft would
first swoop toward
the sun, as close as it
dared—inside the orbit
of Mercury—to fill its
sails with lusty sunlight.

Such sail craft could
conceivably make the
crossing to Alpha Centauri in a thousand years. Sails
are limited in speed by how close they can get to the
sun, which, in turn, is limited by the sail material’s
durability. Gregory Matloff, a City University of New
York professor and longtime interstellar travel propo-
nent, says the most promising potential material is gra-
phene—ultrathin layers of carbon graphite.

A laser or microwave beam could provide an even
more muscular push. In the mid-1980s, the doyen of
interstellar travel, Robert Forward, suggested piggy-
backing on an idea popular at the time: solar-power
satellites, which would collect solar energy in orbit
and beam it down to Earth by means of microwaves.
Before commencing operation, an orbital power sta-
tion could pivot and beam its power up rather than
down. A 10-gigawatt station could accelerate an ultra-
light sail—a mere 16 grams—to one-fifth the speed of
light within a week. Two decades later, we’d start see-
ing live video from Alpha Centauri.

This “Starwisp” scheme has rts dubious features—it
would require an enormous lens, and the sail is so frag-
ile that the beam would be as likely to fry it as to push
it—but it showed that we could reach the stars within

but becomes

a human lifetime.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015469
