the attorneys went to outside counsel Kendall Coffey, and asked whether or not they
could buy the book for the $50,000 that the houseman had asked for it. THREE
months later, the FBI and the same AUSA that had headed my prosecution set up my
houseman in a sting. It appears that while using a lawyer from the RRA firm, Brad
Edwards, as a confidential informant for the government at the same time that Scott
Rothstein was using me and the allegations against me to fleece his victims, the US
attorneys’ office was sitting in the Rothstein offices planning a sting operation, while
right next door, Scott Rothstein was making off to Morocco in an attempt to flee the
country. Alfredo Rodriguez was prosecuted by the same AUSA and received an 18-
month sentence; however, it also appeared that on the very same day of his sting
arrest, he bought an illegal gun, and was later sentenced to four years in prison.
Who Cara Holmes is, and what her role was in RRA is still a mystery to us. She
appears to be a former FBI agent out of the Chicago office. She joined the Rothstein
firm in May of 2009, and joined the Florida Bar at the same time. She attended
depositions of my pilots and my houseman. She communicated regularly with Brad
Edwards and the investigators on my case. The email traffic is extensive.

The telephone book that sy Rodriguez had stolen from my house was then
turned over(by the government?) to the same attorneys who had been told they
could not buy it as s they would have been buying stolen property. Brad Edwards, the
former partner of Scott Rothstein, then used the purloined book to send out letters
to everyone in the book, asking for additional stories of my wrongdoing in the past
five years with the hopes of getting new clients. The letter was structured so as to
circumvent the ethical rules regarding trolling for clients.

While I was serving my sentence, my lawyers were able to come see me in jail. Only
two months after being incarcerated, my in house lawyer came to see me to tell me
that we were now conducting an audit of legal fees paid to date. They had
discovered that Gerald Lefcourt, my primary attorney, had taken out cash to
the tune of $800,000, that according to his own accountant, he was not entitled to.
He had simply prepared invoices that said, “Please pay another $100,000 or
$200,000”. Though he had been asked on multiple occasions to substantiate the
bills, his response would be, “We are working full time for you”. I pointed out that
his was not the only firm working for me, but he replied, “Would you like me to
quit?” He eventually returned over $400,000 over a period of time, as he said that
his cash flow could not handle the strain. He said that he was still owed for things
like taxi fair, coffee and doughnuts, detailed for $2.53, and would keep $400,000.

I was told that I should hire Guy Lewis, a former US Attorney in the Southern
District. Lewis, a southern style gentleman; white suits, fast cars; said he had a great
relationship with the current US Attorney, Alex Acosta, and the people in
Washington that would potentially need to review what ever happened in South
Florida. He wanted a $100,000 per month retainer, and with this, his partner Mike

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025544
