later than this evening. I don’t recommend using Outlook or computerized to-do lists, because it is
possible to add an infinite number of items. I use a standard piece of paper folded in half three times,
which fits perfectly in the pocket and limits you to noting only a few items.

There should never be more than two mission-critical items to complete each day. Never. It just isn’t
necessary if they’re actually high-impact. If you are stuck trying to decide between multiple items that all
seem crucial, as happens to all of us, look at each in turn and ask yourself, Jf this is the only thing I
accomplish today, will I be satisfied with my day?

To counter the seemingly urgent, ask yourself: What will happen if I don’t do this, and is it worth
putting off the important to do it? If you haven’t already accomplished at least one important task in the
day, don’t spend the last business hour returning a DVD to avoid a $5 late charge. Get the important task
done and pay the $5 fine.

7. Put a Post-it on your computer screen or set an Outlook reminder to alert you at least three
times daily with the question: Are you inventing things to do to avoid the important?

I also use free time-tracking software called RescueTime (www.rescuetime.com) to alert me when I
spend more than an allotted time on certain websites or programs often used to avoid the important
(Gmail, Facebook, Outlook, etc.). It also summarizes your time use each week and compares your
performance to peers.

8. Do not multitask.

I’m going to tell you what you already know. Trying to brush your teeth, talk on the phone, and answer
e-mail at the same time just doesn’t work. Eating while doing online research and instant messaging?
Ditto.

If you prioritize properly, there is no need to multitask. It is a symptom of “task creep” —doing more
to feel productive while actually accomplishing less. As stated, you should have, at most, two primary
goals or tasks per day. Do them separately from start to finish without distraction. Divided attention will
result in more frequent interruptions, lapses in concentration, poorer net results, and less gratification.

9. Use Parkinson’s Law on a Macro and Micro Level.
Use Parkinson’s Law to accomplish more in less time. Shorten schedules and deadlines to necessitate
focused action instead of deliberation and procrastination.

On a weekly and daily macro level, attempt to take Monday and/or Friday off, as well as leave work at
4PM. This will focus you to prioritize more effectively and quite possibly develop a social life. If you’re
under the hawklike watch of a boss, we’ll discuss the nuts and bolts of how to escape in later chapters.

On a micro task level, limit the number of items on your to-do list and use impossibly short deadlines
to force immediate action while ignoring minutiae.

If doing work online or near an online computer, http://e.ggtimer.com/ is a convenient countdown
timer. Just type the desired time limit directly into the URL field and hit enter. The http:// can often be
omitted. For example:

http://e.ggtimer.com/Sminutes (or just “e.ggtimer.com/S5min’’insomebrowsers)

http://e.ggtimer.com/1hour30minutes30seconds
http://e.ggtimer.com/30 (if you just put in a number, it assumes seconds)

=> COMFORT CHALLENGE

Learn to Propose (2 Days)

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013848
