James PATTERSON

and his own wife, Kimmie, who was arrested for hiding more
than one million dollars’ worth of jewelry.

All in all, more than thirty people involved in Rothstein's
schemes were arrested and sentenced.

Thanks, in part, to his cooperation with the feds, his was the
only Ponzi scheme in history in which all the victims recovered
their money. In return, Rothstein was put into a witness protec-
tion program and is serving his fifty-year sentence anonymously,

in an undisclosed prison location.

Alan Dershowitz

On November 10, 2015, Alan Dershowitz arrived at Shriver Hall,
on the campus of Johns Hopkins University, in Baltimore, to talk
about the Arab-Israeli conflict.

“The outlines for peace are so obvious,” he said. “There has
to be a two-state solution.”

Fifteen minutes into the talk, a group of women—students
belonging to a group called Hopkins Feminists—stood up in
protest. Dressed all in black, with duct tape over their mouths,
they held up a sign and marched out of the hall.

YOU ARE RAPE CULTURE, the sign read.

Afterward, a reporter for the student paper asked Dershowitz ~
about Jeffrey Epstein and Epstein's victims. Wasn't it true that Der

showitz had implied that one of those victims was “asking for it?”

“Pm a defense attorney,” Dershowitz replied. “I have an obliga- ~
nse to

tion under the Constitution to provide a full and zealous defe

my clients. If 1 have failed to do all the things you had just listed, 1 F

could be disbarred. I could be found incompetent as counsel.”

272

He asked the reporter,
on the websites, look on
woman who was accusing
disprove many of the cha
prove the charges against
rape is a heinous thing to d
person who has been fals
rape victims because it mz
money. Our country, unlik
defended, and I’m going to
ents are guilty or innocent
have been guilty. They dese
else. 'm very proud of wh
don't like the fact that I got

The suits and countersuits
Dershowitz filed against eac
2016— reaching a crescend
the plot to blackmail Les W
involved agreed to settle, i
“Edwards and Cassell acknc
filed sexual misconduct acc1
sexual misconduct accusatic
ing all exhibits) are hereby
draws his accusations t]
unethically. Neither Edward
intention of repeating the

Dershowitz also hired form

; an independent investigatior

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022169
