MLPF&S or one of its affiliates is a regular issuer of traded financial instruments linked to securities that may have been recommended in this report. MLPF&S or one of its affiliates may, at any
time, hold a trading position (long or short) in the securities and financial instruments discussed in this report.

BofA Merrill Lynch, through business units other than BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, may have issued and may in the future issue trading ideas or recommenda
h different conclusions from, the information presented in this report. Such ideas or recommendations reflect the different time

with, and reac

methods of the persons who prepared them, and BofA Merri

recipient of this report.

In the event that the recipient received this report pursuant to a contract between the recipient and MLPF&S for the provision of research services for a separate fee,
o be acting as an investment adviser, such status relates, if at all, solely to the person with whom MLPF&S
pecifically in writing by MLPF&S). MLPF&S is and continues to act solely as a broker-dealer in connection

therewith MLPF&S may be deemed

beyond the delivery of this report (unless otherwise agreed s

transactions, i
Copyright an
Copyright 2017 Bank of America Con
iOcustom®, iOdatabase® are registered service mark:
retransmitted or disclosed, in whole or in part, or inal
simultaneously to internal
review of this research report consti
(including any investmen
Materials prepared by BofA Merrill Lynch Global Rese

ncluding transactions in any securities

utes your agree

information known to, professionals in other business areas of BofA Merri
Research and certain business groups. As a resul

BofA
researc
hould

errill Lynch Global
h reports. To the extent this report discusses
consult their own
ny BofA Merrill Lynch en
n public information. Fac
rofessionals in other busi
his re
ities. None of MLPF&S, any of i
Research policy prohibits rese
containing such rating, recom
ormation relating to the tax s
ax advice based on t
The information herein (o
may contain links to third-
contained on such third-party websites is not part o
any affiliation with BofA Merrill Lynch. Access to any
submitting any personal information to them. BofA
Subject to the quiet period applicable under laws of

ou

mendation or in
atus of financial

recent research report rela
nsome cases, an issuer may be classified as Restric
ts security and/or financia
inancial instruments} nor should the analyses or opi

and client websites and other por

recommendations, estimates or price targets) without

heir particular circumstances from an independent tax professional.
her than disclosure information relating to BofA Merrill Lynch and its affiliates) was obtained from various sources and we do not guaran
party websites. BofA Merrill Lynch is not responsible for the content of any third-par'
this report and is not incorporated by reference into this report. The inclusion of a link in this report does not imply any
ays review the terms and privacy policies at third-party websi

publication of research reports, fundamental equity reports are produced on a regular basis as necessary to kee
Certain outstanding reports may contain discussions and/or investment opinions relating to securities, financial instruments and/or issuers that are no longer current. Always refer to the most
ing to an Issuer prior to making an investment decision.

| Lynch is under no obligation to ensure that such

mentioned in this report.

d General Information regarding Research Reports:
poration. All rights reserved. iQmethod, iQmethod 2.0, iQprofile, iQtoolkit, iQworks are service marks of Ban
his research report is prepared for the use of BofA Merri

s of Ban
ny form

of America Corporation. T
or manner, without the express written consent o
als by BofA Merrill Lynch and are not publicly-avail
ment not to redistribute, retransmi

public i
, Including investment bankin
errill

sed on
I Lynch
, BofA
any legal proceeding or issue

arch personnel are ba

plaintiffs, defendants, co-cefe

e to any such

vestment thesis.
| instruments discussed herein is not intended to provide

third-party website is at your own risk, and you should alw
errill Lynch is not responsible for such terms and privacy

he various jurisdictions in which we distribute research reports and other legal and BofA Merrill Lynch policy-re

, or disclose to others the contents, opinions, co
first obtaining expressed permission from an authorized officer of BofA Merrill Lynch.
nformation. Facts and views presented in this material

Lynch does not disclose certain client relationshi
s, it has not been prepared as nor is it intended to express any legal conclusion, opinion or advice. Investors

egal advisers as to issues of law relating to the subject matter of this report. BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research personnel’s knowledge of legal proceedings in which
ity and/or its directors, officers and employees may be
5 and views presented in this material that rela proceedings have not been reviewed by, discussed wit
ness areas of BofA Merrill Lynch in connection with the legal proceedings or matters relevant to such proceedings.

port has been prepared independently of any issuer of securities mentioned herein and not in connection with any proposed offering of securities or as agent of
s affiliates or their research analysts has any authority whatsoever to make any representation or warranty on behalf of the issuer(s). Bo
arch personnel from disclosing a recommendation, investment rating, or investment thesis for review by an issuer prior to the

rames, assumptions
other trading ideas or recommendations are brought

of America Corpora

f BofA Merrill Lynch. BofA Merri
able materials. Any unaut

g personnel. BofA Merrill Lynch

ps wit

ndants or co-plaintiffs wi

ax advice or to be used by anyone to provide tax advi

y website or any linked content contained in a third-

policies and expressly disclaims any liability for them.

p the investment recommendation current.

has contracted direct

pub

ce.

om
part

views a

o

ion. iQa

nves

y we

jons that are inconsistent

ind analytical

0 the attention of any

and in connection
ly and does not extend
with the execution of any

nalytics®,

| Lynch clients and may not be redistributed,
Lynch Global Research reports are distributed
horized use or disclosure is prohibited. Receipt and
nclusion, or information contained in this report

have not been reviewed by, and may not reflect
has established information barriers between

h, or compensation received from, such issuers in

hor involving issuers mentioned in this report is based

h, and may not reflect information known to,

any issuer of any

A Merrill Lynch

ication of a research

ors are urged to

ts accuracy. This report

bsite. Content
endorsement by or
es before

ated res

rictions on the

ed or may be Under Review or Extended Review. In each case, investors should consider any investment opinion relating to such issuer (or

instruments) to be suspended or withdrawn and should not rely on the analyses and investment opinion(s) pertaining to such issuer (or its securities and/or

nion(s) be considered a solicitation of any kind. Sales persons and financial advisors affiliated with MLPF&S or any of its affiliates may not

solicit purchases of securities or financial instrumen

his report or its contents.

s that are Restricted or Under Review and may only solicit securities under Extended Review in accordance with firm policies.

either BofA Merrill Lynch nor any officer or employee of BofA Merrill Lynch accepts any liability whatsoever for any direct, indirect or consequential damages or losses arising from any use of

64 Internet/e-Commerce | 06 April 2017

kof America <2

Merrill Lynch

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014950
