Edwards adv. Epstein
Telephone interview with Virginia Roberts
Page 12 of 23

V: No, not at this stage. I just, some of these people are really influential in power, and I
don’t want to start another shitstorm with a few of them. I’ll tell you that there was some
erotic massages given to, I’m just afraid to say it to you.

JS: Ok, Virginia.
Ve It’s like geez, I don’t know if I want to, I’m really scared of where this is gonna go.

JS: Alright. I understand that, and as I told you from the beginning, if I ask you a question
that you are uncomfortable answering, you just tell me that, and I will move on, and I
understand that at least right now, you are uncomfortable answering, and I am certainly
going to respect that.

V: Thank you so much, Jack.

JS: No, that’s quite alright. I am very appreciate of the cooperation you are providing, and I
don’t want you at any time to feel that we are taking unfair advantage of that cooperation,
so give me the information that you’re comfortable giving me, and if we get to a point
where you’re uncomfortable, I will respect that and we’ll move on from there.

V: Ok.

JS: I want to talk a little bit about the traveling that you did with Jeffrey. About how long
into your relationship with him did that first start?

V: Immediately. I started traveling immediately. Not internationally until I think about,
Gosh, I can’t remember even, I think it was a year later that we started doing international
travel. Maybe like 9 months to a year again. Not too sure to be honest.

JS: So that would have been approximately the summer of 1999? Somewhere around there?

V: Yes. Somewhere around there. Somewhere around a year, somewhere around there, I
can’t pinpoint it exactly. But like I said, we started doing domestic traveling
immediately, so my first destination with him was New York and Santa Fe and the
Carribean, California, I would take trips with him occasionally. Sometimes we would go
to St. Louis or New Orleans or Santa Cruz. We were traveling just about everywhere [
think,

JS: How did you travel?
V: Well, we took Jeffrey’s private jet, and unless I was being sent somewhere by myself for
what we were just talking about before, then I would travel on a what do you call, a

public jet, whatever it is...

JS: commercial flight?

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012118
