professionally embraced. The role was to be Donald Trump’s heirs and attendees. Their
father took some regular pleasure in pointing out that they were in the back of the room
when God handed out brains—but, then again, Trump tended to scorn anyone who might
be smarter than he was. Their sister Ivanka, certainly no native genius, was the designated
family smart person, her husband Jared the family’s smooth operator. That left Don and
Eric to errands and admin. In fact, the brothers had grown into reasonably competent
family-owned-company executives (this is not saying all that much) because their father
had little or no patience for actually running his company. Of course, quite a good amount
of their professional time was spent on the whims, projects, promotions, and general way
of life of DJT.

One benefit of their father’s run for president was that it kept him away from the office.
Still, the campaign’s administration was largely their responsibility, so when the campaign
went from caprice to a serious development in the Trump business and family, it caused a
disruption in the family dynamic. Other people were suddenly eager to be Donald Trump’s
key lieutenants. There were the outsiders, like Corey Lewandowski, the campaign
manager, but there was also the insider, brother-in-law Jared. Trump, not unusually for a
family-run company, made everybody compete for his favor. The company was about
him; it existed because of his name, personality, and charisma, so the highest standing in
the company was reserved for those who could best serve him. There wasn’t all that much
competition for this role before he ran for president, but in early 2016, with the
Republican Party collapsing and Trump rising, his sons faced a new professional and
family situation.

Their brother-In-law had been slowly drawn into the campaign, partly at his wife’s
urging because her father’s lack of constraint might actually affect the Trump business if
they didn’t keep an eye on him. And then he, with his brothers-in-law, was pulled in by the
excitement of the campaign itself. By late spring 2016, when the nomination was all but
clinched, the Trump campaign was a set of competing power centers with the knives out.

Lewandowski regarded both brothers and their brother-in-law with rolling-on-the-floor
contempt: not only were Don Jr. and Eric stupid, and Jared somehow both supercilious
and obsequious (the butler), but nobody knew a whit about politics—indeed, there wasn’t
an hour of political experience among them.

As time went on, Lewandowski became particularly close to the candidate. To the
family, especially to Kushner, Lewandowski was an enabler. Trump’s worst instincts
flowed through Lewandowski. In early June, a little more than a month before the
Republican National Convention, Jared and Ivanka decided that what was needed—for the
sake of the campaign, for the sake of the Trump business—was an intervention.

Making common cause with Don Jr. and Eric, Jared and Ivanka pushed for a united
front to convince Trump to oust Lewandowski. Don Jr., feeling squeezed not only by
Lewandowski but by Jared, too, seized the opportunity. He would push out Lewandowski

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020075
