ERSON

t for the Palm Beach Police

at Mar-a-Lago, Detective Joe
‘ach Police Foundation Police
several honors he received in
ar career in Palm Beach. Two
and took a job as director of
Beverage company.
olice Department] longer than
- told a reporter for the Palm
m going to miss a majority of
, obviously, I’m going to miss
mily. Like many families, you
mily members. But you over-
ind you're a team. I’m going to
yple 've worked with.”
el Reiter left the department in
the job. He now runs his own

nel sued his old friend Jeffrey
| from grace had cost him milk
ed him “severe emotional stress.” J
Brunel is emotionally destroyed

Fittuy Ricu

as a result of Epstein’s actions and the resulting effects on his busi-
ness. He has been on medications to deal with the effects of this.”

It continues: “Defendant Epstein recklessly inflicted emotional
distress on Plaintiff Brunel by engaging in illegal conduct with
under-aged girls, which was falsely linked to Plaintiff. ... This ille-
gal conduct was extreme and outrageous by any standard.”

The suit went on to quote Brunel's doctor, who said that the
modeling scout had gone into psychotherapy “due to a subjective
sense of depression related to what he believes is a loss of business
in his modeling agency as a result of slander published against his
business.” Brunel had gone on prescription drugs—Prozac,
Rivotril—as a result.

The fashion world had frozen him out, he said, after his relation-
ship with Jeffrey Epstein had become public. It had become impossi-
ble for him to find the “fresh faces” he needed for his agency, MC2.

Brunel acknowledged Epstein’s alleged crimes but denied his
own involvement. “Epstein’s illegal activities were outrageous
and extreme; they involved receiving massages from the under-
aged girls while the girls were nude or nearly nude; penetration
of the girls with a finger or object; or full intercourse.”

When the Daily Beast reported the story and reached out to
Brunel for a comment, the website’s reporter was told, “Jean-Luc
is not in town; he’s in South America.”

Brunel's agency, MC2, is still in business.

Jeffrey Epstein

As of this writing, Jeffrey Epstein continues to entertain young
women at his Manhattan town house.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022182
