2014] CRIME VICTIMS’ RIGHTS 69

Epstein spent much of the jail term on “work release” to his luxurious
office.*

The U.S. Attorney’s Office did not tell Epstein’s victims about the
nonprosecution agreement until well after it had taken effect. To the
contrary, even after the nonprosecution agreement had been signed, the
Office continued to tell the victims that the case was still “under
investigation” and that they should be “patien[t].”*° When the victims
learned of the agreement, two of them (Jane Doe Number One and Jane
Doe Number Two) filed suit in federal court under the Crime Victims’
Rights Act, arguing that the prosecutors had violated their CVRA right to
confer as well as their right to be treated fairly.*’ The victims contended
that prosecutors should have conferred with them about the nonprosecution
agreement before it became final.

In response, the U.S. Attorney’s Office argued primarily that it was
under no obligation to extend the victims any rights under the CVRA. It
was the Government’s blunt position that “CVRA rights do not attach in the
absence of federal criminal charges filed by a federal prosecutor.”*8 In
short, the Government argued it was not required to confer in any way with
the victims, or even treat them fairly, because the CVRA was not yet in
play. The issue is thus squarely framed: Is the Government correct in its
assertion that it has no CVRA obligations in cases like the Epstein case
where federal prosecutors never lodged federal charges against a suspect?
In view of the CVRA’s prominence, resolution of this issue may shed
important light on the nature of crime victims’ enactments and the breadth
of the role that crime victims should have in the criminal justice process.

II. THE CVRA’S APPLICATION BEFORE FORMAL CHARGES ARE FILED

To analyze the issue of whether the CVRA extends nghts to crime
victims before prosecutors have formally filed charges, it is useful to look at
the CVRA’s purposes, language, and judicial interpretations. This Part
looks at each of these three issues in turn.

4

> See Michele Dargan, Feds Say They Treated Epstein Victims Fairly, PaLm BEAcH
DatLy NEws (Apr. 8, 2011, 7:23 PM), http://goo.gl/TGDed; Conchita Samoff, Billionaire
Pedophile Goes Free, DAILY BEAST (July 20, 2010, 7:05 PM), http://goo.g1/MSTi17.

4° See Jane Doe Motion, supra note 40, at 14, 16 (intemal quotation marks and citations
omitted).

47 See Emergency Victim’s Petition for Enforcement of Crime Victim’s Rights Act, 18
U.S.C. Section 3771 at 2, Does v. United States, 817 F. Supp. 2d 1337 (S.D. Fla. 2011) (No.
9:08-cv-80736-KAM).

48 United States’ Response, supra note 40, at 7.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014048
