In re Terrorist Attacks on September 11, 2001, 392 F.Supp.2d 539 (2005)
10 A.L.R. Fed. 2d 789

[32]

[33]

[34]

involved in those attacks. 18 U.S.C.A. §
2339A(b).

Cases that cite this headnote

War and National Emergency
@ Private Remedies

Allegation that defendant funneled money to
terrorist organization responsible for September
11th attacks, through charities in which he was
involved, was sufficient to state a claim under
Antiterrorism Act (ATA), in action alleging
provision of support for those attacks. 18
ULS.C.A. § 2339(A).

Cases that cite this headnote

Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations

Association with or participation in
enterprise; control or intent

Complaint which failed to allege that defendant
had any role in directing an enterprise thus
failed to state a claim under Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act
(RICO), for purposes of action alleging
provision of support for terrorist organization
responsible for September 11th attacks. 18
US.C.A. § 1961 et seq.

Cases that cite this headnote

War and National Emergency
@ Private Remedies

Absent any allegation that purported charitable
organization knew that the money it was
transferring between two other organizations
would somehow assist terrorist organization
responsible for the September 11th attacks, or
that it knew that other organizations to which it
transferred money were in the business of
supporting terrorism, allegation that

WESTLAW

[35]

[36]

[37]

organization made such transfers failed to state a
claim under Antiterrorism Act (ATA), for
purposes of action alleging provision of support
for those attacks. 18 U.S.C.A. § 2339(A).

Cases that cite this headnote

War and National Emergency
Private Remedies

Allegations that defendant was a founder and
leader of terrorist organization responsible for
the September 11th attacks, that he had been
designated a terrorist by the U.S. government,
and that he was the head of various
non-government organizations providing
financial and logistical support to the terrorist
network, sufficiently stated a claim under
Antiterrorism Act (ATA), for purposes of action
alleging provision of support for terrorists
involved in those attacks. 18 U.S.C.A. §
2339(A).

Cases that cite this headnote

War and National Emergency
Private Remedies

Allegation that purported Islamic _ relief
organization collected and laundered money for
terrorist organization responsible for the
September 11th attacks, was involved in
numerous attacks and plots, and funded the
Taliban and terrorist training camps in
Afghanistan sufficiently stated a claim under
Antiterrorism Act (ATA), for purposes of action
alleging provision of support for terrorists
involved in those attacks. 18 U.S.C.A. §
2339(A).

Cases that cite this headnote

Federal Civil Procedure
Time of determination; reserving decision

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017910
