13

They had no respect for state institutions or the rule of law. No
reform was possible with such vandals.

He dismissed the argument that Syria was not facing a conspiracy.
There was a conspiracy, he declared — designed abroad and
perpetrated inside the country. How else to explain the satellite
phones, the advanced weapons, the guns mounted on trucks in the
hands of his enemies? Syria had always been a target of conspiracy.
He had long been under pressure to abandon his principles. (No
doubt, by this he meant his Arab nationalist convictions, his alliance
with Iran and Hizbullah, his opposition to Israel and the United
States.) Syria needed to strengthen its immunity against such
conspiracies, he insisted.

In this defiant speech, President Asad made no mention of the abuses
of his security services -- the callous use of live fire against civilians,
the killing of well over a thousand protesters, the deployment of tanks
to besiege rebellious cities, the mass arrests, the beatings and the
torture, the flight of terrified refugees across Syria’s borders -- a
catalogue of outrages which has shattered Syria’s reputation and
earned it international condemnation. The refugees in Turkey should
return home, he said. They would not be punished. The army would
protect them. But those who have had a taste of army brutality may
not be persuaded by the President’s assurances. He did, however,
have a word of condolence for bereaved mothers.

The heart of Asad’s address was a statement of his ambition to shape
a new vision for Syria’s future. Reform, he declared, was his firm
conviction. His one big idea -- the centrepiece of his speech -- was a
plan for a National Dialogue. A special authority had been set up to
work out the necessary arrangements for this great debate, which he
hoped would provide for the widest possible popular participation.
The task was to create a forum where far-reaching political and
economic reforms could be discussed, so that legislation could then

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030168
