3.2 Some Patternist Principles 39

— Example: Building towers has been useful in a certain context, but so has building
structures with a large number of triangles. Why not build a tower out of triangles?
Or maybe a vaguely tower-like structure that uses more triangles than a tower easily
could?

— Example: Building an elongated block structure resembling a table was successful in the
past, as was building a structure resembling a very flat version of a chair. Generalizing,
maybe building distorted versions of furniture is good. Or maybe it is building distorted
version of any previously perceived objects that is good. Or maybe both, to different
degrees...

Next, for a variety of reasons outlined in [Goe(6a] it becomes appealing to hypothesize that the
network of patterns in an intelligent system must give rise to the following large-scale emergent
structures

e Hierarchical network. Patterns are habitually in relations of control over other patterns that
represent more specialized aspects of themselves.

— Example: The pattern associated with “tall building” has some control over the pattern
associated with “tower”, as the former represents a more general concept ... and “tower”
has some control over “Eiffel tower”, etc.

e Heterarchical network. The system retains a memory of which patterns have previously
been associated with each other in any way.

— Example: “Tower” and “snake” are distant in the natural pattern hierarchy, but may be
associatively /heterarchically linked due to having a common elongated structure. This
heterarchical linkage may be used for many things, e.g. it might inspire the creative
construction of a tower with a snake’s head.

e Dual network. Hierarchical and heterarchical structures are combined, with the dynamics
of the two structures working together harmoniously. Among many possible ways to hier-
archically organize a set of patterns, the one used should be one that causes hierarchically
nearby patterns to have many meaningful heterarchical connections; and of course, there
should be a tendency to search for heterarchical connections among hierarchically nearby
patterns.

— Example: While the set of patterns hierarchically nearby “tower” and the set of patterns
heterarchically nearby “tower” will be quite different, they should still have more overlap
than random pattern-sets of similar sizes. So, if looking for something else heterarchically
near “tower”, using the hierarchical information about “tower” should be of some use,
and vice versa.

— In PLN, hierarchical relationships correspond to Atoms A and B so that InheritanceAB
and InheritanceB A have highly dissimilar strength; and heterarchical relationships cor-
respond to IntensionalSimilarity relationships. The dual network structure then arises
when intensional and extensional inheritance approximately correlate with each other,
so that inference about either kind of inheritance assists with figuring out about the
other kind.

e Self structure. A portion of the network of patterns forms into an approximate image of the
overall network of patterns.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012955
