4.2.12
WC: 191694

For example, Helena Stoeckley testified to the jury that she could not remember where she had
been on the night of the murders. MacDonald's attorneys tried to introduce the testimony of six
witnesses - - including a police officer - - to whom she had previously admitted that she was in the
MacDonald house with her friends that night. Since testimony about Stoeckley's prior ad-missions
would technically constitute hearsay - - that is, testimony by one witness about what another
witness had said outside the courtroom - - the judge ruled that the jury could hear about
Stoeckley's hearsay admissions only if [corroborating evidence showed] that they [were]
‘trustworthy.’ 

The judge—who was also unaware of the handwritten lab notes—ruled that there was no
physical evidence that corroborated Stoeckley's admissions; therefore, her admissions were not
trustworthy. Had he been aware of this corroborating evidence, he would have been obligated to
allow the hearsay admissions into evidence.

Thus, the jury never learned that there was hard, scientific evidence of intruders in the house-or
that a woman matching MacDonald's description of one of the intruders had actually admitted to
six different people that she and her friends, not Jeffrey MacDonald, were the killers.

Moreover, in 2005, the former Deputy Marshall, Jim Britt, who was in charge of escorting
Helena Stoeckley to the courtroom came forward and told MacDonald’s lawyer the
following:

Jim Britt avers that he personally witnessed Helena Stoeckley state to James
Blackburn [the prosecutor] that she and others were present in the MacDonald home
on the night of the MacDonald murders and that they had gone there to acquire
drugs; Jim Britt further avers that he witnessed and heard James Blackburn, upon
hearing this, directly threaten Helena Stoeckley, telling her that if she so testified in
court he would indict her for first degree murder. This threat caused her to change
her testimony, as the next day, when called to the witness stand by the defense,
Stoeckley claimed to have amnesia as to her whereabouts from midnight until 5 a.m.
the night of the MacDonald murders -- the precise time-frame during which the
crimes occurred. James Blackburn never disclosed to the court or defense counsel
what Helena Stoeckley admitted to him in Jim Britt's presence. On the contrary,
Blackburn, at a critical juncture in the trial, advised the court that Stoeckley, when he
interviewed her, denied having any knowledge of the MacDonald family, the
MacDonald home, or involvement in the MacDonald murders. Blackburn even went
so far as to elicit from Stoeckley, through leading questions before the jury,
testimony that was contrary to what she had told him during his interview of her the
day before in the presence of Jim Britt.

Finally new DNA and forensic testing has revealed three specimens that did not match any of the
people in the house, as well as unidentified hairs under the fingernails of the victims. This new
and suppressed evidence corroborates Stoeckley’s original account that she remembers being in
the house and participating in the murders. Had the trial judge known about this corroboration,
he would surely have allowed Stoeckley’s earlier statements to be heard by the jury.

197

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017284
