With Chinese President Xi calling for a heightened effort to
reduce systemic financial risk, regulators have started to tackle
the bloated shadow banking system. Since taking office in
February, Guo Shuqing, China's top banking regulator—with
the nickname “Whirlwind Guo” for his no-nonsense
management style—has already issued a series of directives to
reduce leverage. For example, banks were asked to implement
higher standards for interbank lending and for selling third-
party wealth management products (a primary source of
funding for the shadow banking system). In April, China's top
insurance regulator was detained for corruption, and the
regulatory agency has since taken disciplinary actions against
some high-profile insurance companies that have deviated
from the core insurance business by using shorter-term funding
to finance corporate takeovers, as well as overseas acquisition
sprees.

Tomorrow Never Knows

While we believe China’s economy should hold up well going
into the 19th Party’s Congress this autumn, its growth is likely
to decelerate, and the lagged effects of the tightening measures
on the shadow banking system and on the housing market
could become quite visible by 2018. Housing price changes
could be flat or even negative by this time next year.

If the past is any guide, Chinese policymakers may once again
loosen property purchase restrictions next year to stimulate
growth. Therein lies the moral hazard—it is well known that
Chinese policymakers would not risk a sizeable correction in
the housing market, and therefore would reflate again to
strengthen economic growth. However, with property prices in
China’s tier-one cities already on par with or even exceeding
those of major global cities, it will be hard to rationalize another

CHART 4: YEAR-OVER-YEAR CHANGE IN CHINESE IMPORTS (BILLIONS OF USD)

60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
-10%
-20%
-30%
2011

2012 2013

These measures have driven up China interbank lending rates,
as well as corporate bond yields. The squeeze on the shadow
banking system has led to a big jump in aborted bond issuance.
In May, China’s net corporate bond issuance dropped to a
record low of negative 217 billion yuan as some bond issuers
were unable to roll over their maturing bonds.

On the housing front, various cities have rolled out new
administrative measures with the aim of keeping housing prices
flat. A few cities even resorted to the draconian measure of a
10-year lock-up period for new apartment purchases—buyers
of new apartments built on recently auctioned off land are
prohibited from selling their units for a decade.

China has also continued to stem the capital outflow. Starting
this July, Chinese banks and financial institutions have to report
all domestic and overseas cash transfers of more than 50,000
yuan ($7,700), compared to the prior threshold of 200,000 yuan
($29,338). Funds transferred overseas are prohibited from
purchasing properties, investments, and insurance products.
Various new restrictions have also been placed on Bitcoin
trading exchanges, as well as overseas use of credit cards. In
short, it appears that capital flight from China will get somewhat
more difficult for ordinary citizens.

2014

2015 2016 2017

Source: Bloomberg

round of substantial price increases. In other words, using the
property market as a lever to stimulate economic growth is not
a sustainable long-term solution.

Although equity volatility picked up some in June, most equity
investors still appeared to be basking in the glow of a
synchronized global recovery. However, the canary in the coal
mine may be iron ore: having rallied from the December 2015
low of $37.50 per metric ton to nearly $95 in February 2017, it
has lost roughly 30% to $65 a metric ton by the end of June.

In the final analysis, the global economy has benefited from
China’s rapid growth. However, China will likely be at a
crossroads as President Xi embarks on his second term in 2018.
Will policymakers inflate the housing bubble further to support
economic growth? Will they find new levers to keep the
economy growing above 6% per annum, or will they settle for
a lower but more sustainable pace? The law of large numbers
portends that the next five years will likely be more challenging
for Chinese policymakers than the last five years. @

GLOBAL FORESIGHT THIRD QUARTER 2017

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012087
