In the 1980’s, Moishe Zar, a desert castle dwelling, settlement organizing,
ardent Orthodox Jewish Zionist, now 65 years old, was the leading vigilante of the
West Bank He planted bombs in the cars of Arab mayors and plotted to blow up the
Dome of the Rock. Buying up farmland from the Palestinians beginning in 1979,
many of whom were then killed by their own because they were seen as
collaborators, Zar and his group of young volunteer settlers took over harvesting the
Palestinian’s olive trees and shooting rifles over the heads of those that would take
them back. Fundamentalist Christians share his vision that the coming of the
Messiah, the second for Christians, the first for the Jews, is dependent upon the
complete return of all of the land of Israel to the Jews.

| recall that in the middle 1940’s, my father took me to a fund raising dinner
for the local chapter of the Jewish Antidefamation League. The whispered talk was
about blowing up a warehouse in which anti-Semitic pamphlets were stored,
planned for the middle of the night when it was unoccupied. Even at the age of 10, |
could tell that their quiet anger and firm commitment made these threatened men
feel less vulnerable. | understood a little more about the motivation for this proposed
nighttime property destruction when, the following year, my father explained the
reason for our being refused overnight rooms at several motels as we drove along I-
95 in Southeast Florida. It took us until late night to find a place to sleep. This was
America’s muted version of what Hitler and his legions were doing to Jews that, at
that time, was not generally known, except for Walter Winchell, in America.
Resonant with our chemical-cultural theme are the many reports that Hitler was
taking an amphetamine drug, Benzedrine, daily and in high doses for the last 20 or
more years of his life. One can hear the characteristic, amphetamine-induced,
higher pitched, rants in his recorded radio tirades. Compare the pitch and strained
voice quality of the singing of Bob Dylan in his early records made while he was on
speed with the gravely, much lower pitched voice, now that he is not. In our
behavioral neuropharmacology laboratory at the Brain Research Institute at UCLA,
Professor Charles Spooner and | used an audiographic oscilloscope to monitor the
sounds of baby chicks whose peeps became higher in pitch and rate following

injections of amphetamine. The earliest members of the methadrine-amphetamine

147

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013647
