also were not in compliance with the company’s internal
policies, which provided that charitable donations gener-
ally should be made to healthcare institutions and relate to
the practice of medicine.’”

Proper due diligence and controls are critical for
charitable giving. In general, the adequacy of measures
taken to prevent misuse of charitable donations will depend
on a risk-based analysis and the specific facts at hand. In
Opinion Procedure Release No. 10-02, DOJ described the
due diligence and controls that can minimize the likelihood
of an FCPA violation. In that matter, a Eurasian-based sub-
sidiary of a U.S. non-governmental organization was asked
by an agency of a foreign government to make a grant to
a local microfinance institution (MFI) as a prerequisite to
the subsidiary’s transformation to bank status. The subsid-
iary proposed contributing $1.42 million to a local MFI to
satisfy the request. The subsidiary undertook an extensive,
three-stage due diligence process to select the proposed
grantee and imposed significant controls on the proposed
grant, including ongoing monitoring and auditing, ear-
marking funds for capacity building, prohibiting compen-
sation of board members, and implementing anti-corrup-
tion compliance provisions. DOJ explained that it would
not take any enforcement action because the company’s due
diligence and the controls it planned to put in place sufficed
to prevent an FCPA violation.

Other opinion releases also address charitable-type
grants or donations. Under the facts presented in those
releases, DOJ approved the proposed grant or donation,'™
based on due diligence measures and controls such as:

e certifications by the recipient regarding compliance
with the FCPA;!

e due diligence to confirm that none of the recipient’s
officers were affiliated with the foreign government
at issue;1

* arequirement that the recipient provide audited
financial statements;!°

* awritten agreement with the recipient restricting

the use of funds;'”

® steps to ensure that the funds were transferred to a

valid bank account;!”

19

e confirmation that the charity's commitments were

109 and

met before funds were disbursed;
* on-going monitoring of the efficacy of the
program.!!°
Legitimate charitable giving does not violate the
FCPA. Compliance with the FCPA merely requires that
charitable giving not be used as a vehicle to conceal pay-

ments made to corruptly influence foreign officials.

Five Questions to Consider When Making
Charitable Payments in a Foreign Country:

1. What is the purpose of the payment?

2. Is the payment consistent with the company’s
internal guidelines on charitable giving?

3. Is the payment at the request of a foreign official?

4. Is a foreign official associated with the charity
and, if so, can the foreign official make decisions
regarding your business in that country?

5. Is the payment conditioned upon receiving
business or other benefits?

Who Is a Foreign Official?

The FCPA’s anti-bribery provisions apply to corrupt
payments made to (1) “any foreign official’; (2) “any foreign
political party or official thereof”; (3) “any candidate for
foreign political office”; or (4) any person, while knowing
that all ora portion of the payment will be offered, given, or
promised to an individual falling within one of these three
categories.'' Although the statute distinguishes between a
“foreign official, “foreign political party or official thereof?
and “candidate for foreign political office” the term “for-
eign official” in this guide generally refers to an individual
falling within any of these three categories.

The FCPA defines “foreign official” to include:

any officer or employee of a foreign government or

any department, agency, or instrumentality thereof,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022521
