Real estate: NTP positive but not enough

The Saudi residential sector is suffering an acute housing shortage which we estimate
at c1.2mn homes. Key reasons are:

e 1) Land is expensive: land constitutes as much as 50% of the cost of a housing
unit which is more than double the typical 20-25% in more affordable areas
globally.

e 2) Affordability issue: banks are reluctant to provide mortgages to workers from
the private sector.

e 3) Limited financing: the Real Estate Development Fund (REDF) which used to
provide interest-free loans to eligible Saudis for home purchase or construction, has
been unable to cope with the demand for new loans and has a backlog of about
450,000 applicants. The housing ministry is looking to issue Islamic bonds to help
fund the country’s REDF at the end of 2017.

e 4) Overrun development costs: Long delays for construction approval and permits
translate to overrun costs which create obstacles for developers to launch
economically feasible projects.

A persisting shortage of affordable residential supply

The shortage of housing is not a new phenomenon - it has been ongoing for decades.
The demand outlook from end-users is solid. Domestic household formation (marriages)
is a large component: newly married Saudi couples need an affordable place to live. With
market demand growing by 105K units pa (BofAMLe), we believe the shortage of supply
will persist for the following reasons:

e The limited scalability of residential projects — Dar Al Arkan is the largest
residential developer with only a 1% potential market share (delivery capability of
1,100 units pa).

e The capital-intensive Saudi financing model — without funding support from the
government and a virtually non-existent off-plan sales market, Saudi developers
have to secure funding to undertake larger residential projects. Dar Al Arkan is
having to lever up, as land sales, which were once the primary source of funding,
are no longer enough to enable it to scale up.

¢ A lack of incentives for large regional developers to enter the market — the
dearth of off-plan sales has dried up the cash flows of developers and limited their
ability to finance new projects and, in the worst cases, ongoing projects.
Furthermore, the profitability of affordable housing projects is not compelling
enough to attract developers to the Kingdom.

Fragmented Saudi residential market

Some 75% of new housing supply is from individuals and micro-home builders. This
trend highlights Saudis’ preference for building their own homes and illustrates the
immature profile of the real estate market in Saudi Arabia. Sovereign actions in
neighbouring countries, like the UAE, have boosted the sector (land granted to
developers, capital flows from international investors). We see big developers becoming
more active in the Kingdom but the effects on supply will not be immediate, in our view.
So far, they represent only 15% of the total market.

Key strategic objectives and KPIs to watch

e The Ministry of Housing is looking to: 1) improve performance of the real estate
sector and increase its contribution to the GDP; and, 2) enable citizens to obtain a
suitable residence. The ministry targets by 2020 to: 1) double the real estate sector

64 GEMs Paper #26 | 30 June 2016 3S Merrill Lynch

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016174
