It follows that if real GDP is understated, then
what appears to be a slow recovery is not as slow
as reported and what appears to be a period of low
productivity growth is not as low as reported.

We believe that the evidence favors the
mismeasurement argument. At a September 2016
Brookings Institution conference on productivity,
Martin Feldstein, Harvard professor and president
emeritus of the National Bureau of Economic
Research, also concluded that “the official statistics
substantially underestimate the real growth
of output” after studying the methods used to
measure price indices.°°

We point to three examples to illustrate the
mismeasurement argument. First, our colleagues in
Goldman Sachs’ Global Investment Research (GIR)
have pointed out that the official price indices for
information and communication technology show
an implausible gap between the price deflation in
computers and that in communications equipment,
software and other IT equipment (see Exhibit 14).
They question how “a given dollar outlay now
buys about 10 times as much computer in real
terms as 20 years ago, but it only buys about 10%
more software.”

Our colleagues’ conclusion that the
official price indices for the information and
communication technology sector are overstated
matches that of a 2015 study of microprocessor
pricing by David Byrne of the Federal Reserve
Board, Professor Stephen Oliner of UCLA, and
Sichel.** The trio created an index showing that
prices for microprocessor units used in desktop
personal computers declined by an average
annual rate of 43% between 2008 and 2013,
while the official Producer Price Index (PPI)
for these units declined by an average annual
rate of 8%—substantially mismeasuring the
real value created by this sector of information
technology equipment. They point out that
because microprocessor units represent about half
of US shipments of semiconductors, the rate of
innovation in this sector is inevitably mismeasured.

A second example of mismeasurement that we
can all readily appreciate involves the quality and
product improvements in smartphones. Hal Varian,
chief economist at Google and emeritus professor
at the University of California at Berkeley, has
estimated that globally, people took over 1.6
trillion photos in 2015 using their smartphones,
compared with 80 billion in 2000 using cameras
and film. The price of each photo taken has gone

Exhibit 14: US Technology Price Indices
The implausible gap with hardware suggests IT and
communication price indices are likely overstated.

Q1 1995 = 100
140

Software
----- Hardware (Computers and Peripherals)
120 Communications Equipment
Other IT Equipment 114

100 +=
Re
ry 90

so} %
60 ‘
40 N

20

0
1995 1997 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015

Data through 2015.
Note: Other IT Equipment represents medical and non-medical equipment and instruments.
Source: Investment Strategy Group, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research, Bureau of
Economic Analysis.

from 50 cents to zero for smartphone users; 1.6
trillion photos that would have contributed $800
billion to GDP have no impact on GDP in the
current framework. GDP has declined since camera
and film sales have fallen without a commensurate
quality adjustment for smartphones. Of course,
fewer photos would have been taken had the
smartphone not been developed, but the point

still stands.

Similarly, Varian shows that with the onset of
the commercial application of GPS technology,
productivity growth in trucking was twice the
aggregate US productivity growth, yet when GPS
functionality was added to smartphones basically
at no additional charge, GDP declined because
sales of stand-alone GPS systems fell.*4

Finally, a third example, also provided by
Varian, shows that, because GDP does not fully
count the export of intangibles such as software
and design, GDP is understated. He shows how an
iPhone manufactured by Foxconn in China using
parts from 28 countries and exported to France
has no direct impact on US GDP. Varian concludes
that in a global supply chain, US design and
software that is replicated outside the US through
offshore manufacturing and exported to a third
country never impacts US GDP measures directly,
particularly if the profits are not repatriated and
redeployed in the US.*

Our colleagues in GIR continue to estimate that
such mismeasurements lower reported annual real

Outlook | Investment Strategy Group 1S

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014548
