Edward West had written in 1815 that in economies already developed, there isn’t
much room for more capital of the same kind. Its productivity disappears in capital
glut and diminishing returns. There could still be growth when some of the new
ideas would need only redeployment of existing kinds of capital, as in relocating
production nearer to the market or cutting out the middleman. This redeployment
was Solow’s “disembodied growth.” But growth after that have to come from capital
new in kind. Hourglasses might have to give place to pocket watches, or sailing ships

to steamships. Those were Solow’s “embodied” growth.

The apparent problem here is that novelty is expensive. There are blind alleys and
failure rates and learning curves that rote replication avoids. This is true somewhat
even in disembodied growth, where redeployment is already a step into the
unfamiliar. If depreciation investment is barely enough for balanced growth without

new ideas, how can it also pay for the failure rates and learning curves?

A tough question. And Mill was posing an even tougher one. The paragraph quoted
is clearly describing capital acceleration. Capital as he describes it is not only
innovating consistently as it keeps up with consumption, but picking up the pace,

and still taking the innovation costs in stride. Is that too much even for Achilles?

It is not. Charts and tables show that the kind of growth Mill describes has proved
the only kind in every country and period where tests are practical. It has proved
the only kind whether capital was growing faster or shrinking faster or anything
between. The growth bronco bucks, and the consumption rider stays on. This is
what clearly happens, or anyhow has happened so far, despite so many reasons to

think it is impossible. What would explain it?

First take the lesser puzzle. Balanced growth, where capital, output and
consumption all grow at the same constant rate, must make do with depreciation
investment. How can it in crowded niches where growth compels the costs of

innovation? Chapter 2 showed my inference that these are the costs of being human.

Chapter 4 Mill’s Idea 1/11/16 9

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_011000
