Integrated GPS Shoes by GTXC Though originally made to track patients and kids, we're sure the
shoes will be integrated soon with the Nike + Ipod so you can track your run in your personal
Google mashup. Or hide it in your wife's purse to see whether she's banging San Francisco's
mayor, Gavin Newsom. Or something like that. The system from GTXC has a sophisticated GPS
integrated into the shoe, which communicates directly with a satellite, which then relays locations
in real-time to their monitoring center and made available via internet or phone. Predetermined
geographic areas can also be defined and alerts sent when the person being tracked leaves or enters
the area. And don't worry, they already have a product for outdoor activities called the Wearable

Caddy.
New Smart GPS Shoes

Manisha Kanetkar - Thursday, 1 February 2007

Keeping track of your loved ones has never been so easy (or so spy-like) with the new Xplorer
smart GPS shoes designed by GTXC.

The company boasts the shoes incorporate the smallest, most powerful and robust GPS tracking
device currently available. GTXC says they are ideal for caretakers of children or the elderly to
easily monitor the location of their charges.

So, for example, they can preset perimeters of safe zones or unsafe zones, and then receive mobile
phone alerts if a perimeter is breached by the wearer. This is handled by what the company calls

its ‘set-it-and-forget-it' Dual GeoFencing feature.
Shoes with GPS locator Coolest Gadgets

Jan 29, 2007 - GTX Corporation will be unveiling its new line of Xplorer Smart GPS footwear at
the beginning of next month in Las Vegas. The Xplorer aims to usher in the next generation of
GPS smart shoes by incorporating smaller and yet more powerful GPS chipsets inside the shoe

itself to provide a more accurate reading...
GTX Corporation unveils GPS-equipped Xplorer shoes Engadget

Jan 26, 2007 - It seems like Sayo Isaac Daniel has some serious competition coming at him in the
GPS shoe market, as GTX Corporation is unveiling its latest geo-tracking footwear at next week's
World Shoe Association trade show. The questionably styled Xplorer kicks pack an internal GPS

transceiver,...
GPS Shoes keep track of kids

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018149
