In re Terrorist Attacks on September 11, 2001, 392 F.Supp.2d 539 (2005)
10 A.L.R. Fed. 2d 789

[38]

[39]

District Court would deny, without prejudice,
purported Islamic charitable trust’s motion to
dismiss, for failure to state a claim, complaints
against it in action alleging provision of support
for terrorists involved in September 11th attacks,
where Court had not yet determined whether it
had personal jurisdiction over the trust.

1 Cases that cite this headnote

War and National Emergency
@~Private Remedies

Allegation, that defendants were
co-conspirators, material sponsors, and/or aiders
and abettors of a network alleged to have
provided support for terrorist, was insufficient,
without more, to state a claim under
Antiterrorism Act (ATA), for purposes of action
alleging provision of support for terrorists
involved in September 11th attacks; allegations
failed to provide notice of the factual grounds on
which the claims were based. 18 U.S.C.A. §
2339(A).

Cases that cite this headnote

War and National Emergency
Private Remedies

Absent any allegation that organization knew
that two purported Islamic charities it allegedly
financed were terrorist cells, or whether and
how those cells contributed to agenda of terrorist
organization responsible for the September 11th
attacks, allegation that the organization provided
that financial support were insufficient to state a
claim under Antiterrorism Act (ATA), in action
alleging provision of support for terrorists
involved in those attacks. 18 U.S.C.A. §
2339(A).

Cases that cite this headnote

WESTLAW

[40]

[41]

[42]

Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations
@ Association or participation

Absent any allegation that company had any role
in directing an enterprise, allegation that it
donated money to a group alleged to have later
laundered the money, and that it donated money
to unnamed entities who later forwarded it to
terrorist organization responsible for the
September 11th attacks, were insufficient to
state a claim under Racketeer Influenced and
Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO), in action
alleging provision of support for terrorists
involved in those attacks. 18 U.S.C.A. § 1961 et

seq.

Cases that cite this headnote

Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations

@ Association or participation

War and National Emergency

@ Private Remedies

Complaint, alleging that individual defendants
aided and abetted, conspired with, and provided
material support and resources to terrorist
organization responsible for the September 11th
attacks and/or affiliated organizations, failed to
state claims for violations of Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act
(RICO) or Antiterrorism Act (ATA), in action
alleging provision of support for terrorists
involved in those attacks; complaint did not
adequately provide defendants with notice as to
how they provided material support to terrorist
organization. 18 U.S.C.A. §§ 1961 et seq.,
2339(A).

2 Cases that cite this headnote

War and National Emergency
Private Remedies

Complaint alleging that defendant controlled
several bank accounts and transmitted money

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017911
