72 Teaching Minds

designer of a course on how to manage a restaurant must focus on
the typical goal conflict situations that a new manager would have to
confront. The course designer must create a fictional situation where
it is necessary to convince an employee to do something or to find out
why something that was asked of an employee did not happen.

The magic word is scenario. Scenarios are like plays. Things happen
and you have to deal with them. A well-written scenario makes sure
that all of the processes that could be at all relevant to what you want
to teach, occur in this new context. In a reasonable education system,
students would have been practicing all of these processes all of their
lives. But we do not have a reasonable education system. We have
one based in subjects. So our cognitive processes are not rehearsed
over time in different contexts by constant practice. Instead we learn
knowledge about subjects.

To remedy this, a course designer (and a teacher if the teacher has
that freedom) must make sure that as many of the cognitive processes
as are relevant to a situation naturally occur within the scenario being
constructed to simulate what will happen in real life later on. Not ev-
ery situation requires diagnosis, but many do. Not every situation has
a goal conflict or forces one to make predictions or plans, but many
do. If what needs to be taught naturally lends itself to working on
any of the 12 cognitive processes, then the training being built must
concentrate on that. If there could be diagnosis, then there should be
training in diagnosis in that context, and that training must supersede
the garnering of facts.

Schools are tough to change. We are trying, but the subject-based
educators have a few hundred years head start. However, in designing
new training, it is quite possible to reorient subject-based courses and
turn them into cognitive process-based courses that are much more
satisfying to both the teacher and the student.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023818
