through-the-eye-of-the-needle accomplishment—without unique astuteness and cunning.
Right? In the early days of the White House, this was the fundamental hypothesis of the
senior staff, shared by Walsh and everyone else: Trump must know what he was doing, his
intuition must be profound.

But then there was the other aspect of his supposedly superb insight and apprehension,
and it was hard to miss: he was often confident, but he was just as often paralyzed, less a
savant in these instances than a figure of sputtering and dangerous insecurities, whose
instinctive response was to lash out and behave as if his gut, however silent and confused,
was in fact in some clear and forceful way telling him what to do.

During the campaign, he became a kind of vaunted action figure. His staff marveled at
his willingness to keep moving, getting back on the plane and getting off the plane and
getting back on, and doing rally after rally, with a pride in doing more events than
anybody else—double Hillary’s!—and ever ridiculing his opponent’s slow pace. He
performed. “This man never takes a break from being Donald Trump,” noted Bannon,
with a complicated sort of faint praise, a few weeks after joining the campaign full time.

It was during Trump’s early intelligence briefings, held soon after he captured the
nomination, that alarm signals first went off among his new campaign staff: he seemed to
lack the ability to take in third-party information. Or maybe he lacked the interest;
whichever, he seemed almost phobic about having formal demands on his attention. He
stonewalled every written page and balked at every explanation. “He’s a guy who really
hated school,” said Bannon. “And he’s not going to start liking it now.”

However alarming, Trump’s way of operating also presented an opportunity to the
people in closest proximity to him: by understanding him, by observing the kind of habits
and reflexive responses that his business opponents had long learned to use to their
advantage, they might be able to game him, to move him. Still, while he might be moved
today, nobody underestimated the complexities of continuing to move him in the same
direction tomorrow.

OOK Ok

One of the ways to establish what Trump wanted and where he stood and what his
underlying policy intentions were—or at least the intentions that you could convince him
were his—came to involve an improbably close textual analysis of his largely off-the-cuff
speeches, random remarks, and reflexive tweets during the campaign.

Bannon doggedly went through the Trump oeuvre highlighting possible insights and
policy proscriptions. Part of Bannon’s authority in the new White House was as keeper of
the Trump promises, meticulously logged onto the white board in his office. Some of these
promises Trump enthusiastically remembered making, others he had little memory of, but
was happy to accept that he had said it. Bannon acted as disciple and promoted Trump to
guru—or inscrutable God.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019971
