Stop asking for opinions and start proposing solutions. Begin with the small things. If someone is going
to ask, or asks, “Where should we eat?” “What movie should we watch?” “What should we do tonight?”
or anything similar, do NOT reflect it back with, “Well, what do you want to ... ?” Offer a solution. Stop
the back-and-forth and make a decision. Practice this in both personal and professional environments.
Here are a few lines that help (my favorites are the first and last):

“Can I make a suggestion?”

“IT propose ...”

“Td like to propose ...”

“I suggest that ... What do you think?”

“Let’s try ... and then try something else if that doesn’t work.”

» LIFESTYLE DESIGN IN ACTION

I’m a musician who got your book because Derek Sivers at CD Baby recommended it. Checking
Pareto’s Law I realized that 78% of my downloads came from just one of my CDs and that 55% of my
total download income came from only five songs! It showed me what my fans are looking for and
allowed me to showcase those on my web site. Downloads are the way to go. iTunes sells the song and
CD Baby direct deposits it to my account. Fully automated once the recording is done. There are some
months I can live off download income. Once I finish paying off debt, it should be no problem to travel
as an artist and create new fans all over the world and have a cyber income stream.

—VICTOR JOHNSON

As for “outsourcing” your banking, any company that needs to take checks (cheques) should consider
a lock box solution. Just about any bank that does business banking offers it. All checks go to a PO box
at the bank, the bank processes the checks and deposits them, and according to your instructions can
send you a file of all the checks that are deposited. Normally this can be done in either a flat, Excel or
other file type that can interface with any accounting systems from Excel, to Quicken to SAP. Quite cost
effective.

—ANONYMOUS

6

The Low-Information Diet

=» CULTIVATING SELECTIVE IGNORANCE

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013849
