Off to Moscow | 255

to Terminal E. It is a nine-minute walk through the transit passage-
way. Snowden, though, had one good reason for not going to Ecua-
dor, even if Russia had permitted it. He believed that he would be
vulnerable to rendition by the U.S. government in Ecuador. “If they
[the U.S. government] really wanted to capture me, they would’ve
allowed me to travel to Latin America, because the CIA can oper-
ate with impunity down there,” he explained in the previously cited
interview with Katrina vanden Heuvel, the editor of The Nation, in
2014. He had already discussed the likelihood of his being captured
in Ecuador with Assange before his departure for Moscow. He later
told Alan Rusbridger, the editor of The Guardian, that he considered
himself at risk in Latin America. So why would Snowden, who told
Greenwald that his “first priority” was his own “physical safety,”
leave the comparative safety of Russia to put himself in jeopardy in
Ecuador?

He had not obtained a visa to Ecuador at its consulate in Hong
Kong, as Kucherena confirmed. The Ecuador destination was, as we
have seen, a cover story put out by Assange and his associates, and it

© worked with the press. ®

Over a hundred reporters and photographers scrambled aboard
Aeroflot Flight SU150 to Cuba the next morning in response to this
anonymous tip on a website, but Snowden was not aboard that flight
and was not seen in Terminal E. By the time the plane landed in
Cuba, Aeroflot denied that anyone named Snowden had ever been
booked on any of its flights to Cuba, a denial it continued to repeat to
every reporter who queried the airline for the next six weeks.

The first news that Snowden was still in Russia came on July 1,
2013. A statement posted on the WikiLeaks website—and signed
“Edward Snowden”—after thanking “friends new and old” for his
“continued liberty,” accused President Obama of pressuring “leaders
of nations from which I have requested protection to deny my asy-
lum petitions.” It added, “This kind of deception from a world leader
is not justice, and neither is the extralegal penalty of exile. These are
the old, bad tools of political aggression.” In fact, Snowden had not
suffered a “penalty of exile,” because his passport was still valid for
returning to the United States, but that was not an option for him as
the statement made clear.

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.indd 255 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019743
