An androgynous driver named Monica greeted me at the airport in a black tuxedo that would make
Albert Nobbs weep for joy, prompting me to devilishly think of her as Nobbs all weekend. She barely
recognized me sporting a new Sally Hershberger hairdo, the yenta with the dragon tattoo.

Checking into the Beverly Hills Hotel | bumped into best actress nominee, Golden Globe and Spirit
Award winner Michelle Williams with her daughter Matilda Ledger headed to the swimming pool.
Innocently standing there with no makeup she was remarkably the antithesis of Marilyn Monroe. | told
her she so deserved the Oscar for her mesmerizing transformation which did not cheer her up knowing
the gold was going to Viola or Meryl.

This year there seemed to be more parties than ever. Vanity Fair publisher Edward Menicheschi staged
a staggering six nights of “CAMPAIGN HOLLYWOOD.” Ermenegildo Zenga and Colin and Livia Firth
hosted an intimate dinner at the Chateau Marmont to benefit Oxfam America, Colin’s pet charity. Editor
Graydon Carter and Edward greeted Cameron Diaz, Kristin Davis, Gary and Alexandra Oldman, Mia
Wasikowska. In addition, Livia spoke about her 'Green Carpet Challenge’ which uses eco-friendly fabrics
for “wear it once” gowns at awards shows. Get it? Go green on red.

It was a busy night at the Chateau as French billionaire investor Nicolas Berggruen hosted his party for
young, leggy, breathtakingly beautiful models. Lindsay Lohan was on the loose after a judge having
announced she was making great progress. She showed up sober wearing a new face bloated with
injectable Restalyne that could only be preparation to portray Elizabeth Taylor in Liz and Dick, her film
for Lifetime. Peter Brant and Stephanie Seymour and Peter Morton and Linda Evangelista joined Josh
Harnett and Emile Hirsh under the terrace heaters. The boys were looking for love in all the right places.

Thursday, February 23

Thursday night boasted fifteen events causing party panic. Here is a brief rundown of seven.

With ballots in, competing sudias cordially |
Gren Wilson slipped in the back door and hung w Michae een and aredicer Letty A Aronson.
Producers Kathy Kennedy and Frank Marshall chatted with DreamWorks
Mortimer. Fox's Tom Rothman and Jim Gianopulos compared notes
with Focus's James Shamus Drake Doremus (Like Crazy), Sean Durkin (Martha
Marcy May Marlene) and Oscar nominee and Spirit Award winner J.C. Chandor (Margin Call) drank at
Breakout directors Nick Jarecki (Arbitrage), Zal Batmanglij (Sound of My Voice and The
East) and Jay Duplass (Jeff Who Lives at Home) dreamed about their future nominations
Sorkin, Piers Morgan and Lawrence O'Donnell handicapped Romney vs.
sashayed by.

Decker

Urs Fisher's exhibition Beds & Problem Paintings featured two bed sculptures at Larry Gagosian's Gallery
followed by his private dinner at Mr. Chow's. Art lovers Vera Wang, Russell Simmons, Steve Martin, Jean
Pigozzi and John Waters attended.

The US-Ireland Alliance honored nominees Hugo screenwriter John Logan, Bridesmaids star Melissa

McCarthy and Michelle Williams at Bad Robot. Logan also wrote Rango” Coriolanus, 007’s Skyfall
and Jersey Boys for the big screen.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013444
