2014] CRIME VICTIMS’ RIGHTS 81

For purposes of this Article, it is appropriate to focus on the last two of
these three rights: the right to confer and the nght to fair treatment. The
first of these three rights—the right to be reasonably protected—is already
clearly extended by another statute to crime victims before the filing of
charges. While OLC does not acknowledge this fact, the VRRA extends
the first right to crime victims, directing that a “responsible official shall
arrange for a victim to receive reasonable protection from a suspected
offender and persons acting in concert with or at the behest of the suspected
offender.”'*! Because a “suspected” offender obviously exists before the
filing of criminal charges, the VRRA envisions the right to protection being
provided as soon as is practical after a victim suffers from the commission
of a crime. Additionally, the sections of the Attorney General Guidelines
for Victim and Witness Assistance addressing the VRRA direct that Justice
Department components must provide reasonable protection even before the
filing of criminal charges.'*? So, under the VRRA, the Justice Department
should already be providing reasonable protection for a victim before an
offender is indicted, regardless of how the CVRA is interpreted!”

The VRRA, however, does not contain a right to confer and a right to
fair treatment and respect for the victim’s dignity. Therefore, if victims are
going to receive these statutory rights before trial, these rights must be
found in the CVRA. With regard to the CVRA provision that victims have
the “reasonable right to confer with the attorney for the Government in the
case,”!*+ OLC contends that “[t]he phrase ‘in the case’ implies the pendency
of a judicial proceeding.”'*? To bolster its conclusion, OLC then cites
Black’s Law Dictionary, which includes among its several definitions of the
word “case” the definition “a civil or criminal proceeding.”'*° But OLC
does not acknowledge that Black’s Law Dictionary also defines and
exemplifies a “case” more broadly as a “criminal investigation <the

notification of rights before charges are filed). For purposes of this Article, it is not
necessary to explore this right in detail. If other CVRA rights apply before charges are filed,
a fortiori this right does as well. If a victim has a right, presumably the victim should be
notified of the existence of that right.

121 42 U.S.C. § 10607(c)(2) (2006) (emphasis added).

122 See ATTORNEY GENERAL GUIDELINES, supra note 52, at 7-8, 26-28.

123 Exactly what “reasonable protection” means, however, remains uncertain. See
generally Mary Margaret Giannini, Redeeming an Empty Promise: Procedural Justice, the
Crime Victims’ Rights Act, and the Victim’s Right to Be Reasonably Protected from the
Accused, 78 TENN. L. REV. 47 (2010) (suggesting the right has not been adequately defined
and proposing ways to do so).

14 18 U.S.C. § 3771(aN(5).

125 OLC CVRA Rights Memo, supra note 2, at 8.

126 Td. (citing BLACK’s LAW DICTIONARY, supra note 59, at 243).

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014060
