137

Conference (2015), and the National Propaganda Work Conference (2013 and 2018).
When Xi does not give the keynote speech, the Politburo member in charge of that
domain gives it. By contrast, the keynote speech at the National Overseas Chinese
Conference in 2017 was given by Yang Jiechi, who was at that time a state councilor
responsible for foreign affairs.

e The Central Foreign Affairs Work Conference is held at irregular intervals (2006,
2014, and 2018) to review Chinese foreign policy and announce new initiatives
and objectives. It is attended by key ministers, ambassadors, senior military

officers, and local officials responsible for foreign affairs.

e The Central United Front Work Conference, which used to be called the National
United Front Work Conference, is also convened at irregular intervals (2000, 2006,
and 2015). Both national and local officials responsible for religious, ethnic, and

overseas Chinese affairs participate.

e Prior to 2013, the External Propaganda Work Conference was convened annually.
But starting after that year, this conference has become part of the annual National
Propaganda Work Conference. Officials in the propaganda sector from all over

China attend these conferences.

e The National Overseas Chinese Work Conference was held roughly every six years
(2005, 2011, and 2017). Only national and local officials responsible for overseas
Chinese affairs participate.

Hierarchy and Division of Labor

The CCP-affiliated organizations in our diagram that are involved in making policies
concerned with Chinese influence activities abroad enjoy higher political status
than those that execute these policies. What makes the Chinese system notable is
the division of labor, the specialization of its bureaucracies, and the staffing of these
bureaucracies with well-trained and experienced professionals. Besides engaging
their counterparts overseas, these bureaucracies either oversee or directly conduct
influence operations in their areas of specialization. While there exists no single
organization overseeing the entirety of China’s influence activities abroad (although
if any one does have such sweeping purview, it is the Foreign Affairs Commission),

in the implementation of policies aimed to expand Chinese influence abroad, there

Appendix 1

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020596
