The Art of Undecision: Fewer Options = More Revenue

Companies go out of business when they make the wrong decisions or, just as important, make
too many decisions. The latter creates complexity.

— MIKE MAPLES, cofounder of Motive Communications (IPO to $260 million market cap),
founding executive of Tivoli (sold to IBM for $750 million), and investor in companies such as

Digg.com

J oseph Sugarman is the marketing genius behind dozens of direct-response and retail successes,

including the BluBlocker sunglasses phenomenon. Prior to his string of home runs on television (he sold
20,000 pairs of BluBlockers within 15 minutes of his first QVC appearance), his domain was print media,
where he made millions and built an empire called JS&A Group. He was once recruited to design an
advertisement for a manufacturer’s watch line. The manufacturer wanted to feature nine different
watches in the ad, and Joe recommended featuring just one. The client insisted and Joe offered to do
both and test them in the same issue of The Wall Street Journal. The result? The one-watch offer outsold

the nine-watch offer 6-to-1.22

Henry Ford once said, referring to his Model-T, the bestselling car of all time = “The customer can
have any color he wants, so long as it’s black.” He understood something that businesspeople seem to
have forgotten: Serving the customer (“customer service”) is not becoming a personal concierge and
catering to their every whim and want. Customer service is providing an excellent product at an
acceptable price and solving legitimate problems (lost packages, replacements, refunds, etc.) in the fastest
manner possible. That’s it.

The more options you offer the customer, the more indecision you create and the fewer orders you
receive—it is a disservice all around. Furthermore, the more options you offer the customer, the more
manufacturing and customer service burden you create for yourself.

The art of “undecision” refers to minimizing the number of decisions your customers can or need to
make. Here are a few methods that I and other NR have used to reduce service overhead 20-80%:

Offer one or two purchase options (“basic” and “premium,” for example) and no more.

Do not offer multiple shipping options. Offer one fast method instead and charge a premium.

3. Do not offer overnight or expedited shipping (it is possible to refer them to a reseller who does, as
is true with all of these points), as these shipping methods will produce hundreds of anxious phone
calls.

4. Eliminate phone orders completely and direct all prospects to online ordering. This seems

outrageous until you realize that success stories like Amazon.com have depended on it as a
fundamental cost-saver to survive and thrive.

5. Do not offer international shipments. Spending 10 minutes per order filling out customs forms and
then dealing with customer complaints when the product costs 20-100% more with tariffs and
duties is about as fun as headbutting a curb. It’s about as profitable, too.

Some of these policies hint at what is perhaps the biggest time-saver of all: customer filtering.

Not All Customers Are Created Equal

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013928
