terrifying Golden Rules of Computer Security.“Rule One: Don’t Own A Computer.” The
machine that Morris Jr. created was madeentirely of software. It took the form ofa
compact, simply designed computer program he’d written and designed to spread
quickly and easily on the young systems of the Internet. It ran a mere 99 lines, took
most computers nanoseconds to execute and it worked like this: The program - it
later became known as a “worm” by the police who would come to find and arrest
Morris Jr. - would find an open door on a network-connected computer. (In 1988,
the pre-Warez Dude era, finding such doors was not difficult. Finding locked doors
was probably harder.) Once Morris’ program had slithered inside and loaded itself
onto the machine, like a dog slipping through an unattended puppy door, it would
sniff around, rattle a few more doors to find any passwords that had been left
unsecured. Then it would move on to the next machine. Knock, knock. Rattle, rattle.
Next machine. Morris designed his code to simply repeat this process over and over.
Filling, as a result, each machine’s memory with multiple, peformance-deadening
copies of the same program. A house full of puppies, in a sense. After several hours
of this flu-like spread, a wave of unplanned, unending computation began choking
the net.

Morris later explained he’d only meant his program as a demonstration, as a test of
sorts. He wanted to show how machines might be made more safe. But he seemed to
grasp, almost immediately, that he’d made a mistake and that the worm was
running away from him. He emailed a friend: How the hell to stop it? His friend had
no idea either. They scrambled at least to warn system administrators about the
dangerous code that would shortly devour their machines. “There may be a virus
loose on the Internet,” they wrote. But that note, in a bit of bad luck, was
quarantined inside a Harvard computer that had already been unplugged. So, a few
hours after Morris released his code, unwarned and unprepared, the Internet froze.
212 On November 2¢ and 3rd, 1988 machines around the world were shut off, cables
were pulled out of walls, and systems were wiped and restarted in a race to stop the
robot-like spread of the disease and then to finally kill it off. 213

The Morris Worm was, on those fall 1988 days, acting out a sober-minded insight of
the famed biological historian Alfred Crosby: “The nineteenth century was followed
by the twentieth century, which was followed by the...nineteenth century.”214
Crosby meant that our age of topological connection meant we were back, again, in
an age of infections. And this was true: Morris program was mapping out, like an
epidemic, new routes in the age of high-speed digital contagion. But - and this is
why we care about it here - by the time it reached “peak infection”, the worm was

212 So, a few hours: David Moore, Colleen Shannon, k claffy, “Code-Red: a case study
of the spread of a worm on the Internet” IMW ‘02 Proceedings of the 2nd ACM
SIGCOMM Workshop on Internet measurment (2002), 273-284

213 Morris later explained: Ted Eisenberg, DavidGries, Juris Hartmanis, Don
Holcomb, and M. Stuart Lynn, Thomas Santoro, “The Cornell Commission: On Morris
and the Worm”, Communications of the ACM (June 1989, 12: 9) 706

214 The Morris program: Alfred W. Crosby, America's Forgotten Pandemic: The
Influenza of 1918 2nd ed. (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2003) xii

145

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018377
