Administration and
agenda

» directing Treasury to label China a currency
manipulator.

Consistent with Trump’s desire to change the way
business is conducted in Washington, he also pledges to
act on his first day in office to:

» propose aconstitutional amendment to impose term
limits on all members of Congress;

» require that for every new federal regulation, two
existing regulations must be eliminated; and

» impose a five-year ban on White House and
congressional officials becoming lobbyists after they
leave government service.

(The Trump Contract with the Voter is available at
https://assets.donaldjtrump.com/ CONTRACT FOR_THE _
VOTER. pdf)

Budget. While President-elect Trump has vowed to act
quickly on repeal of the ACA, it is difficult to see how that
can be accomplished outside of reconciliation instructions
for FY 2018. “When we win on November 8th, and elect a
Republican Congress, we will be able to immediately
repeal and replace Obamacare. | will ask Congress to
convene a special session,” he said November 1.

An early focus of attention will be the first Trump budget
proposal and the congressional FY 2018 budget
resolution. As with the past several years under divided
government, a main issue will be how to address the
Budget Control Act sequester for FY 2018. According to
the Congressional Budget Office, the cap on discretionary
budget authority originally established by the Budget
Control Act is set at $1.156 billion in 2018, though it will
be reduced by automatic procedures unless Congress
intervenes. CBO said the reduction will total $91 billion
for 2018: $54 billion for defense and $37 billion in 2018
for nondefense. Therefore, total budget authority is
slatedto be $1.065 trillion, split between $549 billion for
defense and $516 billion for nondefense. Both Trump and
Speaker Ryan want to eliminate the sequester as it
applies to defense, but would likely want to maintain the
sequester for non-defense spending.

As reported in Politico last month, Speaker Ryan is bullish
on using the “budget reconciliation” process to pass
significant tax reform. “Thisis our plan for 2017,” Ryan
said, waving a copy of his “Better Way” policy agenda.
“Much of this you can do through budget reconciliation.”
He said key pieces are “fiscal in nature,” meaning they
can be moved quickly through a budget maneuver that
requires a simple majority in the Senate and House.

Use of “Budget Reconciliation” to enact legislation
involves a two-step process. First, both Chambers of
Congress need to pass a concurrent Budget Resolution
(requires only simple majority in the Senate) that contains
“reconciliation instructions.” These instructions are
directions to committees of jurisdiction to change the
spending or revenue numbers (or both), and to report
back the changes by a date certain. A budget resolution
generally is a legislative vehicle that servesas the
blueprint for fiscal policy and establishes a framework for
consideration of spending and revenue bills for the
coming fiscal year. Technically, a budget resolution isa
“concurrent resolution” which is binding in the House and
the Senate. Because a concurrent resolution is not
submitted to the President for signature, it does not have
the force of law.

The second part of the process is to pass “reconciliation”
bills that adhere to the reconciliation instructions from
the budget resolution.

Reconciliation bills can involve changes to spending,
revenue, or the debt limit (or any combination of the
three). Importantly, these reconciliation bills also only
require a simple majority in the House and Senate for
passage.

Reconciliation bills carry strict debate time and
amendment restrictions, but unlike a budget resolution,
reconciliation legislation contains specific spending and
revenue policy changes that are signed into law by the
President. In the Senate, debate is limited to 20 hours.
While only a simple majority is required for passage in the
Senate, 60 votes are required to waive violations of the
so-called “Byrd rule,” which prohibits the inclusion of
provisions that increase the budget deficit for the period
outside the budget window, usually a 10-year period. An
unlimited number of amendments may be offered and
voted upon, even after the 20 hours of debate have
expired —a process often referred to as a “vote-a-rama’.

This process is attractive because of the simple majority
vote in the Senate, but carries with it restrictionssuch as
the ten-year expiration for titles of the bill that increase
the deficit outside the budget window.

It was used by President George W. Bush to pass
significant tax cut legislation in 2001 (the “Bush tax
cuts”) and is expected to be considered next year for tax
reform. Note that the Bush tax cuts were originally
sunsetted at the end of ten years due to the Byrd

rule. Subsequent legislation passed outside reconciliation
process made many of these provisions permanent.

EY °

| Election 2016

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022381
