MATTER

B

IOFUEL

Frack ’er Up

Natural gas is shaking up the search for green gasoline

BY DAVID BIELLO

AM SPEEDING DOWN New Jersey’s highways,
| propelled by gasoline with a dash of ethanol, an

alcoholic biofuel brewed from stewed corn ker-
~~ nels. As I drive through the outskirts of the town-
ship of Hillsborough, in the center of the state, I see
that spring has brought with rt a bounty of similar “bio-
mass,” as the fuel industry likes to call plants. Trees
line the road and fresh-cut grass covers the sidewalks
as I pull into the business park that is home to Pri-
mus Green Energy—a company that has been touting
a technology to transform such biomass into a green
and renewable form of gasoline.

But there’s a hitch. The boom in hydraulic fracturing,
or “fracking,” a technique in which horizontal drilling
and high-pressure jets of water are deployed to release
gas trapped in sedimentary shale rock, has made natu-
ral gas cheap and plentiful. That’s not bad for Primus,
whose technology can make gasoline from natural gas,
biomass, or even low-grade coal, such as lignite or peat.
This versatility makes Primus a potential part of what

has been called the “olive economy’—companies that
are neither bright green nor darkest black, but com-
bine environmentally-friendlier technologies with old-
er and dirtier ones in order to compete. In fact, Primus
may become a leader in advancing this kind of technol-
ogy. “We can be as dark as you want or as green as you
want,” says geologist, serial entrepreneur, and Primus
salesman George Boyajian.

In July, President Barack Obama gave a major
speech on climate change that described natural gas
as a “transition fuel” towards the “even cleaner energy
economy of the future.” But Primus’s trajectory raises
the question of whether natural gas is a boost on the
road to a genuinely green fuel, or if it is prolonging our
addiction to dirty modes of transport, and taking us on
a detour from a low-carbon path.

At the Primus headquarters, I first meet Primus’s
chief chemist Howard Fang in front of a prototype of
a Primus conversion machine. Fang, who joined the
company for what he calls his “semi-retirement,” is

ILLUSTRATION BY PETER & MARIA HOEY

23

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015483
