Chapter 12
The Engineering and Development of Ethics

Co-authored with Stephan Vladimir Bugaj and Joel Pitt

12.1 Introduction

Most commonly, if a work on advanced AI mentions ethics at all, it occurs in a final summary
chapter, discussing in broad terms some of the possible implications of the technical ideas pre-
sented beforehand. It’s no coincidence that the order is reversed here: in the case of CogPrime,
AGLethics considerations played a major role in the design process ... and thus the chapter on
ethics occurs near the beginning rather than the end. In the CogPrime approach, ethics is not
a particularly distinct topic, being richly interwoven with cognition and education and other
aspects of the AGI project.

The ethics of advanced AGI is a complex issue with multiple aspects. Among the many issues
there are:

1. Risks posed by the possibility of human beings using AGI systems for evil ends

2. Risks posed by AGI systems created without well-defined ethical systems

3. Risks posed by AGI systems with initially well-defined and sensible ethical systems eventu-
ally going rogue — an especially big risk if these systems are more generally intelligent than
humans, and possess the capability to modify their own source code

4, the ethics of experimenting on AGI systems when one doesn’t understand the nature of
their experience

5. AGTrights: in what circumstances does using an AGI as a tool or servant constitute “slavery”

In this chapter we will focus mainly (though not exclusively) on the question of how to create
an AGI with a rational and beneficial ethical system. After a somewhat wide-ranging discussion,
we will conclude with eight general points that we believe should be followed in working toward
Friendly AGI — most of which have to do, not with the internal design of the AGI, but with
the way the AGI is taught and interfaced with the real world.

While most of the particulars discussed in this book have nothing to do with ethics, it’s
important for the reader to understand that AGI-ethics considerations have played a major
role in many of our design decisions, underlying much of the technical contents of the book. As
the materials in this chapter should make clear, ethicalness is probably not something that one
can meaningfully tack onto an AGI system at the end, after developing the rest — it is likely
infeasible to architect an intelligent agent and then add on an “ethics module.” Rather, ethics
is something that has to do with all the different memory systems and cognitive processes that

205

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013121
