Cybernetics / Art

Suzanne Treister is an artist whose work from 2009 to 2011 serves as an example of what
is happening at the intersection of our current technologies, the arts, and cybernetics.
Treister has been a pioneer in digital art since the 1990s, inventing, for example,
imaginary video games and painting screen shots from them. In her project Hexen 2.0
she looked back at the famous Macy conferences on cybernetics that between 1946 and
1953 were organized in New York by engineers and social scientists to unite the sciences
and to develop a universal theory of the workings of the mind.

In her project, she created thirty photo-text works about the conference attendees
(which included Wiener and von Foerster), she invented tarot cards, and she made a
video based on a photomontage of a “cybernetic séance.” In the “séance,” the conference
participants are seen sitting at a round table, as in spiritualist séances, while certain of
their statements on cybernetics are heard in an audio-collage—trational knowledge and
superstition combined. She also noted that some of the participating scientists worked for
the military; thus the application of cybernetics could be seen in an ambivalent way, even
back then, as a tussle between pure knowledge and its use in state control.

If one looks at Treister’s work about the Macy conference participants, one sees
that no visual artist was included. A dialogue between artists and scientists would be
fruitful in future discussions, and it is a bit astonishing that this wasn’t realized at the
time, given von Foerster’s keen interest in art. He recounted in one of our conversations
how his relation to the field dated back to his childhood:

I grew up as a child in an artistic family. We often had visits from poets,
philosophers, painters, and sculptors. Art was a part of my life. Later, I got into
physics, as I was talented in this subject. But I always remained conscious of the
importance of art for science. There wasn’t a great difference for me. For me,
both aspects of life have always been very much alike—and accessible, too. We
should see them as one. An artist also has to reflect on his work. He has to think
about his grammar and his language. A painter must know how to handle his
colors. Just think of how intensively oil colors were researched during the
Renaissance. They wanted to know how a certain pigment could be mixed with
others to get a certain tone of red or blue. Chemists and painters collaborated
very closely. I think the artificial division between science and art is wrong.

Though for von Foerster the relation between the art and science was always
clear, for our own time this connection remains to be made. There are many reasons to
multiply the links. The critical thinking of artists would be beneficial in respect to the
dangers of AI, since they draw our attention to questions they consider essential from
their perspective. With the advent of machine learning, new tools are available to artists
for their work. And as the algorithms of AI are made visible through artificial images in
new ways, artists’ critical visual knowledge and expertise will be harnessed. Many of the
key questions of AI are philosophical in nature and can be answered only from a holistic
point of view. The way they play out among adventurous artists will be worth following.

Simulating Worlds
For the most part, the works of contemporary artists have been embodied ruminations on

148

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016951
