82

services of the world. In the United States, Xinhua doubled the number of bureaus,
adding Chicago, Houston, and San Francisco to its original footprint in Washington,
DC, New York, and Los Angeles. Xinhua, like other state-owned Chinese media outlets,

also began hiring local talent, and in 2009 it began a TV broadcast in English.

As part of this vigorous propaganda campaign, the Party has sought to turn China
Central Television into a global competitor to CNN. CCTV was already airing in
America as of 2004, when it cooperated with EchoStar, America’s second-largest
satellite TV company, to launch the Chinese “Great Wall Platform” package, including
twelve Mandarin channels, two Cantonese channels, one Hokkien channel, and one
English channel. That same year, Rupert Murdoch’s News Group helped CCTV place
programming on Time Warner and NewsCorp’s US television network. CCTV also
expanded its offerings in the United States, growing its bureau in Washington and
hiring American reporters too. By 2012, CCTV, recently renamed the China Global
Television Network (CGTN), was broadcasting in seven languages. Its programs

for American audiences regularly feature personalities from Russia’s state-funded
propaganda outlet, RT, which was recently required to register as a foreign agent; RT,

in turn, regularly features CGTN personalities.

China Radio International (CRI) was also given a foreign platform. Decades ago, the
Beijing-based propaganda outlet relied solely on shortwave broadcasts to beam China’s
message to the world, but in the late 2000s it began leasing local stations around the
globe and across the United States that it supplied with content made in Beijing. CRI
has used a US-based company through which it leases stations. That firm is EDI Media
Inc. (s2S48 8 IR 5]), which also owns other media properties that tow Beijing’s line:
G&E TV GRR), GE Studio Network GRIF BA), and EDI City Newsweek
(703 BTFI).1° A CRI subsidiary in China, Guoguang Century Media, holds a majority
stake in G&E Studio.' When it comes to reporting on mainland China, the content of

all of EDI’s outlets mirrors that of China’s state-owned media.

China’s state-run media have proved to be nimble in accomplishing Beijing’s goal of
penetrating US markets. In 2013, the Hong Kong—based Phoenix Satellite TV group,
which has close ties to the Chinese state and broadcasts in China, attempted to
purchase two major FM stations in Los Angeles that shared the same frequency. One of
them, KDAY, covers West L.A., while KDEY stretches into Riverside and San Bernardino
counties to the east of the city. Greater Los Angeles is home to more than a half million

Chinese, the second-biggest concentration next to New York City. But none of the

Media

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020541
