to speed up the process, consider the next question.

3. What experts could you interview and record to create a sellable audio CD? These people do not need
to be the best, but just better than most. Offer them a digital master copy of the interview to do with or
sell as they like (this is often enough) and/or offer them a small up-front or ongoing royalty payment.
Use Skype.com with HotRecorder (more on these and related tools in Tools and Tricks) to record these
conversations directly to your PC and send the mp3 file to an online transcription service.

4. Do you have a failure-to-success story that could be turned into a how-to product for others? Consider
problems you’ve overcome in the past, both professional and personal.

The Expert Builder: How to Become a Top Expert in 4 Weeks

L.. time to obliterate the cult of the expert. Let the PR world scorn me. First and foremost, there is a

difference between being perceived as an expert and being one. In the context of business, the former is
what sells product and the latter, relative to your “minimal customer base,” is what creates good products
and prevents returns.

It is possible to know all there is to know about a subject—medicine, for example—but if you don’t
have M.D. at the end of your name, few will listen. The M.D. is what I term a “credibility indicator.” The
so-called expert with the most credibility indicators, whether acronyms or affiliations, is often the most
successful in the marketplace, even if other candidates have more in-depth knowledge. This is a matter
of superior positioning, not deception.

How, then, do we go about acquiring credibility indicators in the least time possible? Emulating the
client-grooming techniques of some of the best PR firms in New York City and Los Angeles isn’t a bad
place to start.

It took a friend of mine just three weeks to become a “top relationship expert who, as featured in
Glamour and other national media, has counseled executives at Fortune 500 companies on how to
improve their relationships in 24 hours or less.” How did she do it?

She followed a few simple steps that created a credibility snowball effect. Here’s how you can do the
same,

1. Join two or three related trade organizations with official-sounding names. In her case, she
chose the Association for Conflict Resolution (www.acrnet.org) and The International Foundation for
Gender Education (www.ifge.org). This can be done online in five minutes with a credit card.

2. Read the three top-selling books on your topic (search historical New York Times bestseller lists
online) and summarize each on one page.

3. Give one free one-to-three-hour seminar at the closest well-known university, using posters to
advertise. Then do the same at branches of two well-known big companies (AT&T, IBM, etc.) located
in the same area. Tell the company that you have given seminars at University X or X College and are
a member of those groups from step 1. Emphasize that you are offering it to them for free to get
additional speaking experience outside of academics and will not be selling products or services.
Record the seminars from two angles for later potential use as a CD/DVD product.

4. Optional: Offer to write one or two articles for trade magazines related to your topics, citing
what you have accomplished in steps 1 and 3 for credibility. If they decline, offer to interview a
known expert and write the article—it still gets your name listed as a contributor.

5. Join ProfNet, which is a service that journalists use to find experts to quote for articles. Getting PR
is simple if you stop shouting and start listening. Use steps 1, 3, and 4 to demonstrate credibility and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013900
