248 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

The story starts back in the 1940s at Berkeley University with a
young Julia Robinson, one of the first women to succeed in the previously
male-dominated profession of mathematics. By all accounts, she had a
wry sense of humor. When asked by her personnel department for a job
description she replied: “Monday—tried to prove theorem, Tuesday—
tried to prove theorem, Wednesday—tried to prove theorem, Thursday—
tried to prove theorem, Friday—theorem false.’ Like Andrew Wiles, she
fell in love with one of the great mathematical puzzles, and although she
made great strides, the problem passed from her to Martin Davis for the
next steps.

The final elements were put in place in the 1970s with the work of
another young mathematician, this time a Russian — Yuri Matiyasevich.
Robinson wrote to him when she heard of his proof, “To think all I had
to do was to wait for you to be born and grow up so I could fill in the
missing piece.” The complete result is the Robinson Davis Matiyasevich
theory which sets out the limits of logic and algebra. What, you may ask,
do we mean by logic and algebra?

Mathematicians like to turn everything into logical statements, even
ordering a round of drinks! The discipline of logic emerged from ancient
Greece as the study of language. The starting point was the syllogism:
Statements such as, “All cows eat grass.” or Lewis Carroll’s assertion,

“There are no teachable gorillas.” Over time the study of logic became
ever more precise with, for example, the introduction of variables and
equations; a=all cows, b=some grass. The formula “a eats b” translates by
substitution into, “The cows eat the grass.” This doesn’t look much like a
step forward but, trust me, it is.

The modern way to represent logic is using prenex normal form.
This mouthful simply means separating relationships between things
from the things themselves. The following four statements say the same
thing, each in a more formalized way.

Speech: Harry loves Sally
Logical: x loves y (substitute Harry for x and Sally for y)

Formal: There exists an x, there exists a y (x loves y)

Prenex: xdy (x Ry), Where R, the relationship, is ‘loves’

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015938
