4.2.12
WC: 191694

I set to work on the capital punishment project but found no suggestion in the case law that any
court had ever considered the death penalty to be of questionable constitutionality. Just five years
earlier, Chief Justice Earl Warren had written in Trop v. Dulles (1958) that “whatever the
arguments may be against capital punishment, both on moral grounds and in terms of
accomplishing the purposes of punishment—and they are forceful—the death penalty has been
employed throughout our history, and, in a day when it is still widely accepted it cannot be said to
violate the constitutional concept of cruelty.”

I duly reported this to Justice Goldberg, suggesting that if even the liberal chief justice believed
that the death penalty was constitutional, what chance did he have of getting a serious hearing for
his view that the cruel and unusual punishment clause should now be construed to prohibit the
imposition of capital punishment? Justice Goldberg asked me to talk to Justice Brennan and see
what his views were. Unless Justice Brennan agreed to join, the entire project would be scuttled,
since Justice Goldberg, the Court’s rookie, did not want to “be out there alone,” against the chief
justice and the rest of the Court.

I had previously met Justice Brennan several times over the preceding few years, since his son,
Bill, was my classmate and moot-court partner at Yale Law School. I had also had lunch several
times with the justice and his friend Judge David Bazelon. But none of our discussions had been
substantive, and I nervously anticipated the task of discussing an important issue with one of my
judicial heroes.

I brought a rough draft of the memorandum I was working on to the meeting, but Justice Brennan
did not want to look at it then. He asked me to describe the results of my research to him,
promising to read the memorandum later. I stated the nascent constitutional case against the
death penalty as best I could. I told him that Weems v. United States could be read as recognizing
the following tests for whether punishment was “cruel and unusual”: (I) giving full weight to
reasonable legislative findings, a punishment is cruel and unusual if a less severe one can as
effectively achieve the permissible ends of punishment (that is, deterrence, isolation, rehabilitation,
or whatever the contemporary society considers the permissible objectives of punishment);

(2) regardless of its effectiveness in achieving the permissible ends of punishment, a punishment is
cruel and unusual if it offends the contemporary sense of decency (for example, torture); (3)
regardless of its effectiveness in achieving the permissible ends of punishment, a punishment is
cruel and unusual if the evil it produces is disproportionally

higher than the harm it seeks to prevent (for example, the death penalty for economic crimes).

In addition to these abstract formulations, I also told Justice Brennan that my research had
disclosed a widespread pattern of unequal application of the death penalty on racial grounds. I
cited national prison statistics showing that between 1937 and 1951, 233 Blacks were executed
for rape in the United States, while only 26 whites were executed for that crime, though Whites
committed many more rapes than Blacks.

Justice Brennan encouraged me to continue my research, without making any promise that he
would join any action by Justice Goldberg. Several weeks later, Justice Goldberg told me that

160

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017247
