The key to the Inner Jihad is to learn to transfer responsibility for our Islamic Enemy’s hate and resultant
actions back to it and take responsibility back for our own situation. We must learn all we can about the
enemy. We must unwind our inappropriate projections and introjections and rediscover who we are and are
not. We must speak up. We must support those Muslims who promote expressions of Islam that are
consistent with our principles. And we must stalk the C ontrol Factor, constantly be on guard for its
intrusion. This is an individual endeavor as each of our Control Factors uses its own methods. The book
gives plenty of examples of each maneuver discussed but it is important for each of us to discover the
unique workings of his own mind. That takes the work of the Inner Jihad.

FP: Share with our readers what you mean by the “Turnaround Moment.”

Siegel: There is a moment in typical horror films where the central characters have been pushed to their
limit. They then change and fully embrace the willingness to be as ruthless as the threat they face. No more
moral high ground; no more futile attempts to ignore or change the threat’s essence. As Lee Harris
described in The Suicide of Reason, it is the willingness o r license to be (not necessarily actually being) as
ruthless that is critical. It is a mental state that sheds all the prior counter-productive efforts at denial to
finally clearly focus on the threat faced. Part of the Inner Jihad is to reach that Turnaround Moment sooner
rather than later.

FP: You suggest that “mirroring” should be used as part of our arsenal. Tell us about it.

Siegel: Mirroring is a literal approach to transferring back to the addict responsibility that we have been
inappropriately accepting. Critical to the addict/enabler relationship is asymmetry. Like the addict, the
enemy uses a less limiting set of rules than we do. The enemy typically initiates aggression while we
respond only. Mirroring means that we demonstrate our willingness to act symmetrically, to be governed by
the same rules. It is stunning how much is accomplished when one’s attitude simply is clear that he will do
what is necessary; often not much else is needed as the addict or enemy realizes the game is fundamentally
changed. But other times action is absolutely needed. Demonstrating that we are not afraid to treat the
enemy as it treats us carries great meaning. Imagine (international law aside) if Israel announced that from
now on it will mirror Hamas such that if civilian populations are targeted by bombs from Gaza, Israel will
do the same (it is accused of such anyway). The population might finally rethink and take responsibility for
its privilege of voting its leaders. As stated earlier, all behavior is instructive and when we mirror we teach
the other the effects of his behavior.

Conversely, some situations demand that we assert asymmetry; those cases where it is necessary to
highlight our differences with the enemy. Just this week, an disingenuous report was issued by an NGO
drawing an equivalence between Palestinian and Israe li schoolbooks claiming that both sides have their
relativistic “ narratives.” Yet, as the Palestinian Media Watch’s website has demonstrated for years, there is
nothing in the West anywhere comparable to the hatred spewed daily by the Palestinian Authority,
including through its education system. It is interesting to note that while the US State Department initially
funded the “study,”- in what appears to be an attempt to sanitize the PA’s record so that the US can
continue to fund the PA against the spirit of US law- Hillary Clinton has a difficult time escaping her
conclusion as Senator in 2007 that these schoolbooks along with other media “profoundly poison(s) the
minds of these children.” It is most important that we do not succumb to this type of use of symmetry that
distorts the profound differences between us and the enemy.

Essentially, we are not clear as a nation, participating in a world with international rules, how to bes t fight
this enemy. The first act of any rehab is to acknowledge that we do not know how nor are we yet competent
to stop our addictions. This is not a book about policy. In fact, the “right” policies are unlikely to emerge
until a critical mass has meaningfully dealt with their Control Factors and share a common perspective. We
like to look at our history and assume a single perspective throughout but the truth is that we had to learn
how to respond to Pearl Harbor, the Nazis, the Cold War etc. The same applies here. Our press promotes
“elites” who are tasked with acting as if they possess the “true wisdom” to deal with our threats but the truth
is we do not know nor are we equipped to marshal enough of our population to agree just yet. The sooner
we learn, however, the less we will suffer. Mirroring has always been a key component of those lessons.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025035
