could supply such a “secure line.” Kislyak then used an open phone line at his embassy to relay
Kushner’s response to his foreign ministry in Moscow. It is inconceivable that Kislyak did not
know that the call would be monitored by the FBI, since the FBI had routinely listened in on these
lines for the past 68 years, or that his discussion of Kushner’s request would set off alarm bells in
the intelligence community.

If Kislyak had wanted to hide this exchange from U.S. intelligence, he could have easily sent it
under diplomatic cover directly to Moscow, used a secure line, or relayed it in a coded fashion. By
communicating the message en clair, or in plaintext, Kislyak skillfully exposed Kushner’s
incredibly stupid response, which he himself had provoked, to stoke distrust about the incoming
president within the U.S. intelligence community. Nor was this the only mistrust Kislyak
cultivated: the conversations on the monitored phone led to the firing of National Security Advisor
Michael Flynn, and conversations that Kislyak had with Attorney General Jeff Sessions led to
Sessions’s recusing himself from the Russian investigation, which has now driven a wedge between
President Trump and one of his most effective and popular cabinet members.

Kislyak’s resume indicates that he is a well-regarded and competent player in the game of nations:
he has served as Second Secretary of the Soviet UN mission in New York, First Secretary of the
Soviet Embassy in Washington, Deputy Director of the Soviet Department of International
Organizations in Moscow, Permanent Russian representative to NATO in Brussels, Deputy Foreign
Minister, and Ambassador to the United States. Nothing in his 37-year career, either during or after
the Cold War, suggests that his moves are not aligned with Kremlin strategy.

But when it comes to the various disclosures and interventions surrounding the 2016 election, what
exactly was that strategy?

In a report issued on January 6, 2017, entitled “Assessing Russian Activities and Intentions in
Recent U.S. Elections,” the U.S. intelligence community concluded, based both on its sources and
its analysis of stories on the Russian-controlled network RT, that Putin wanted to hurt Clinton, help
Trump, and discredit the American election. These may well have been motives of the Russian
president, but the narrowly focused assessment fails to explain, or even take into account, Kislyak’s
post-election ensnarement of Kushner, or the discrediting dirt against Trump. If Putin had really
wanted to help Trump win the election, why did Russian sources provide damaging dirt to Steele,
which could have cost Trump the election? Why did Kislyak provide the FBI with information, via
a known tapped line, that could (and did) compromise key members of Trump’s administration?

A wider focus can be found, of all places, in Oliver Stone’s revealing, if fawning, four-hour
interview with Putin, in which the Russian dictator makes clear that he views American hegemony,
including America’s standing and respect in the international community, as a threat that Russia
must counter. One way to undermine America’s standing is to provide disclosures that can be used
by its own political factions, and the media, to sow distrust in America’s reliability as a democracy
founded on transparency. Putin tells the truth when he says that it doesn’t matter particularly to
Russia whether Clinton or Trump won the election: his goal was to install doubt in the legitimacy
of the process, regardless of how it turned out.

Edward Jay Epstein’s most recent book is How America Lost Its Secrets: Edward
Snowden, the Man and the Theft, published by Alfred A. Knopf in January.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_025550
