ara ana ons WNP

INO PE NO UE NO NOE OE NO i a
Ow wnrF OW OTHE BWDHHE COW

rFPoOowWwWmnA DO SB WN FE

oe

t
Ww DR

NNMNNNNNPFPFPRP EP RP RF EB
Oe WrhyrPreowwmnonnrntA nan uw

of a single deposition, or the propounding of any
discovery in the Epstein cases. Do you have any i
reason to doubt the accuracy of that testimony?

A. No, sir,

Q. l_want you. to assume that Brad has or will
testify that you did not provide any input whatsoever
into the handling of the Jegitimate Epstein cases. Do
you have any reason whatsoever to doubt the accuracy
of that testimony?

A. No, sir.

Q. |] want you to assume that Brad has or will
2 ENE YOU 10 eee at 2rd he we

testify that you never met any of the legitimate
plaintiffs in the Epstein cases. Do you _have a

reason to doubt the accuracy of that testimony?
A. No, sir.

MS. HADDAD: ]'m going to object to these
same questions you keep asking, because Mr. Rothstein
has testified at nauseam that he doesn't recal] any
of this and now you are asking him to bolster
Mr. Edwards’ either already given or purported 4
testimony when he's testified he doesn't recall it. :
BY MR. SCAROLA: |

Q. | want you to assume that Brad has or will

testify under oath that you never asked him once to
report back to you on any factual matters repardi

Page 122



the Epstein case. Do you have any reason to doubt the

accuracy of that testimony?
A. No, sir.

Q. 1] want you to assume that Brad has testified
repeatedly that he had absolutely no involvement i in or
‘Knowledge of an ie il activity d
any other RRA la Do you have any 1 reason to doubt
the accuracy of that testimony?

A. No, sir.

Q. J want to talk to you briefly about your
personal perceptions of the significance of the
testimony that you are giving today. If Brad Edwards
had, in fact, been a participant in any of the illegal
‘activities that you have been questioned about at any
stage of this very lengthy deposition. and you

knowingly concealed Brad Edwards’ participation, what
do you understand the personal consequences to be as a
conset q uence of your having knowingly concealed Brad

Edwards participation?

A. I'l] be violating my agreement with the
United States government and ] would run the risk of
dying in prison,

Q. If Brad Edwards, contrary to what you have
testified under oath and what Brad himself has

repeatedly said, knew about anything having to do with
Page 123

santero rast ES PRR cE TT GEN AN USOT SEN SASS SRA U HG SHAE ORR ARR OB PEND Ea

seater emcee

conseUenees of that false testimony to be to be?

A. J'll be violating my agreement with the
United States government and ] would run the risk of.
dying in prison,

MR. SCAROLA: Thank you. | don't have any
further questions.

THE WITNESS: Thank you, sir.

MR. NURIK: Mark, 1 don't know what your
time frame is on your hitigation, but the ability to
receive the transcript, review it and prepare an
errata sheet within what is normally the time
allotted under the court rules cannot be accomplished
in this case.

MR. GOLDBERGER: How much time are you
generally --

MR. NURIK: | don't know.

Actually, the first set of errata sheets
have just been prepared and finalized for the first
deposition in December. I'm not suggesting it will
take that long this time, but if you can give me an
idea of what your time responsibilities are with the
court, what the time limits are --

Page 124

moreno

MR. GOLDBERGER: Do you think it will be
less than a month, two months?

MR. NURIK: J don't think it will be jess
than a month. First of all, a lot depends on the
ability to get the transcript to him to review.

MR. GOLDBERGER: Right.

MR. NURIK: And that's a whole procedure,
it's not normal circumstances that we are dealing
with.

MR. GOLDBERGER: If time becomes an issue,
we'll approach you and ask you to expedite.

MR. SCAROLA: Mark, ] will tell that from
our perspective time is an issue.

MR. NURIK: Have at it then, Jack. Do what
you need to do to get it done.

MR. SCAROLA: There is a long pending
motion for summary judgment on Brad’s behalf that has
been delayed for purposes of taking this deposition.
We are very anxious to be able to call that motion
for summary judgment up for hearing, so whatever can
be done reasonably to expedite the preparation of
this portion of this transcript would be appreciated.

We understand there are limitations beyond your
control, but to the extent you can do it, that would
be helpful. Thank you.
Page 125

32 (Pages 122 to 125)

FRIEDMAN, LOMBARDI & OLSON

305-371-6677

5ed93085-0554-447f-bcdd-ca2d8fe941 df

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017521
