AE AOE UAYAL AMMO) 2RO YUU RU TY, WO MEU UL WU PLU LUN @ LOL U LULU LU LUN age
victims in this matter; however that option was rejected by your Office. Had that option been
chosen, we would not object to your notifying the alleged victims at this point. At this juncture,
however, we do not accept your contention that there is a requirement that the government notify
the alleged victims of a potential civil remedy in this case.

Accordingly, for all the reasons we have stated above, we respectfully -- and firmly --
object to your sending any letter whatsoever to the alleged victims in this matter. Furthermore, if
a letter is to be sent to these individuals, we believe we should have a right to review and make
objections to that submission prior to it being sent to any alleged victims. We also request that if
your Office believes that it must send a letter to go to the alleged victims, who still have not been
identified to us, it should happen only after Mr. Epstein has entered his plea. This letter should
then come from the attorney representative, and not from the Government, to avoid any bias.

As you know, Judge Starr has requested a meeting with Assistant Attorney General Fisher
to address what we believe is the unprecedented nature of the section 2255 component of the
Agreement. We are hopeful that this meeting will take place as early as next week. Accordingly,
we respectfully request that we postpone our discussion of sending a letter to the alleged victims
until after that meeting. We strongly believe that rushing to send any letter out this week is not
the wisest manner in which to proceed. Given that Mr. Epstein will not even enter his plea for
another few weeks, time is clearly not of the essence regarding any notification to the identified
individuals.

Thanks very much,

Jay

“Sloman, Jeff (USAFLS)
To “Jay Lefkowitz .
11/27/2007 01:55 PM ce Acosta, Alex (USAFLS) Po

Subject Epstein

Jay,

Please accept my apologies for not getting back to you sooner but I was a little under the weather
yesterday. I hope that you enjoyed your Thanksgiving.

Regarding the issue of due diligence concerning Judge Davis’ selection, I’d like to make a few
observations. First, Guy Lewis has known for some time that Judge Davis was making
reasonable efforts to secure Aaron Podhurst and Bob Josephsberg for this assignment. In fact,

when I told you of Judge Davis’s selection during our meeting last Wednesday, November 21°,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012677
