102 Are the Androids Dreaming Yet?

At the bottom end of the spectrum is infrared light. Pit vipers have
evolved special organs on the sides of their heads to ‘see’ in this spectrum
and they use this sense to hunt prey in the dark. I use the word see with
some caution. We have no idea what their sensation of ‘heat-sight
involves, but their organs are very precise, able to detect things only 0.2
degrees warmer than the background.

Infrared cues help several species of snakes, bats and insects locate
things in the dark, but the animal that excels at the task, albeit using
technology, is mankind. Special cameras allow us to use infrared to see
in the dark or detect where our houses lose heat.

X-rays are much higher in frequency — about one hundred times
that of the ultraviolet light that affects our T-shirts. The high frequency
corresponds to a small wavelength that allows the rays to pass through
our bodies. Later on in the book we will understand that frequency is not
a proper explanation for light, as it is not a wave but rather a particle that
obeys the laws of a wave. But for now we will ignore this detail.

The first use of X-ray images was to see broken bones. Bones block
the rays as they are dense, but the soft parts of our bodies are almost
completely transparent to X-rays. We can see the soft tissues if we turn
the contrast up, but there are problems when using X-rays to view the
brain. Our skull completely encases the brain and however much we turn
the contrast up, all we see is bone. The solution to this problem is to
perform sophisticated mathematical tricks using a computer to enhance
the contrast ratio and make image ‘slices’ through the living head.

The slicing technique was invented independently in the 1970s
by Sir Godfrey Hounsfield, working for EMI in England, and Allan
Cormack, of Tufts University in America, and they shared the 1979
Nobel Prize for Medicine for their work. Legend has it that EMI was
making so much money from The Beatles they could fund the enormous
development cost of the CAT scanner from the profits; true or not, it’s a
great invention.

The best way to understand the mathematics is to picture yourself
in an episode of ‘CSI, the American television crime drama. An intruder
has attacked someone with a knife and there are blood spatters all over
the walls of the room. Enter the brilliant pathologist who reconstructs
the scene of the crime from the pattern of blood on the wall. She can map
the trajectory of the blood spatters and back-calculate that the attacker
must have been 5’ 4”, left-handed and wielding a 6” blade. In a CAT scan,
our head is hit with billions of rays that bounce and scatter over the walls
of the machine. Sensors detect the rays and a mathematical algorithm
calculates an image of the body that would produce such a pattern. To

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_015792
