Federal Register/Vol. 76, No. 168/Tuesday, August 30, 2011/Rules and Regulations

54007

Federal labor and employment laws in
not requiring employers routinely to
post notices at their workplaces
informing employees of their statutory
rights.6 Given this common practice of
workplace notice-posting, it is
reasonable for the Board to infer that a
posting requirement will increase
employees’ awareness of their rights
under the NLRA.’ Further support for
that position is President Obama’s
recent Executive Order 13496, issued on
January 30, 2009, which stressed the
need for employees to be informed of
their NLRA rights. Executive Order
13496 requires Federal contractors and
subcontractors to include in their
Government contracts specific
provisions requiring them to post
notices of employees’ NLRA rights. On
May 20, 2010, the Department of Labor
issued a Final Rule implementing the
order effective June 21, 2010. 75 FR
28368, 29 CFR part 471.

After due consideration, the Board
has decided to require that employees of
all employers subject to the NLRA be
informed of their NLRA rights.
Informing employees of their statutory
rights is central to advancing the
NLRA’s promise of “full freedom of
association, self-organization, and
designation of representatives of their
own choosing.” NLRA Section 1, 29
U.S.C. 151. It is fundamental to
employees’ exercise of their rights that
the employees know both their basic
rights and where they can go to seek
help in understanding those rights.
Notice of the right of self-organization,
to form, join, or assist labor
organizations, to bargain collectively, to
engage in other concerted activities, and
to refrain from such activities, and of
the Board’s role in protecting those
statutory rights is necessary to effectuate
the provisions of the NLRA.

The Board believes that the workplace
itself is the most appropriate place for
communicating with employees about
their basic statutory rights as employees.
Cf. Eastex, Inc. v. NLRB, 437 U.S. 556,
574 (1978) (“[T]he plant is a particularly
appropriate place for the distribution of
[NLRA] material.’’).

Accordingly, and pursuant to its
rulemaking authority under Section 6 of
the NLRA, the Board proposed a new
rule requiring all employers subject to
the NLRA to post a copy of a notice
advising employees of their rights under

6 See, e.g., Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of
1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e-10(a); Age Discrimination in
Employment Act, 29 U.S.C. 627; Family and
Medical Leave Act, 29 U.S.C. 2601, 2619(a); Fair
Labor Standards Act, 29 CFR 516.4 (implementing
29 U.S.C. 211). 75 FR 80411.

7 As set forth in the NPRM, two petitions were
filed to address this anomaly. 75 FR 80411.

the NLRA and providing information
pertaining to the enforcement of those
rights. 75 FR 80411. For the reasons
discussed more fully below, the Board
tentatively determined that the content
of the notice should be the same as that
of the notice required under the
Department of Labor’s notice posting
rule, 29 CFR part 471. Id. at 80412. Also,
as discussed at length below, the Board
proposed that failure to post the notice
would be found to be an unfair labor
practice—i.e., to interfere with, restrain,
or coerce employees in the exercise of
their NLRA rights, in violation of
Section 8(a)(1) of the NLRA. Id. at
80414. The Board also proposed that
failure to post the notice could lead to
tolling of the 6-month statute of
limitations for filing unfair labor
practice charges, and that knowing and
willful failure to post the notice could
be considered as evidence of unlawful
motive in unfair labor practice cases. Id.
The Board explained that the burden of
compliance would be minimal—the
notices would be made available at no
charge by the Board (both electronically
and in hard copy), and employers
would only be required to post the
notices in places where they
customarily post notices to employees;
the rule would contain no reporting or
recordkeeping requirements. Id. at
80412. Finally, the Board expressed its
position that it was not required to
prepare an initial regulatory flexibility
analysis of the proposed rule under the
Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601
et seq., and that the notice posting
requirement was not subject to the
Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C.
3501 et seq. Id. at 80415-80416.

The Board invited comments on its
legal authority to issue the rule, the
content of the notice, the requirements
for posting the notice, the proposed
enforcement scheme, the definitions of
terms in the proposed rule, and on its
positions concerning the Regulatory
Flexibility Act and the Paperwork
Reduction Act. The Board stated that
comments would be accepted for 60
days following the publication of the
NPRM in the Federal Register, or until
February 22, 2011. The Board received
6,560 comments by February 22.
However, many late-filed comments
were also submitted, and the Board
decided to accept all comments that it
received on or before March 23.8

8 March 23, 2011 was the date that the Board
downloaded all of the electronic and (pdf. versions
of} hard copy comments it had received from
http://www.regulations.gov and subsequently
uploaded into a text analytics tool for coding and
review.

A few commenters submitted their comments in
both electronic and hard copy form. Because all

In all, 7,034 comments were received
from employers, employees, unions,
employer organizations, worker
assistance organizations, and other
concerned organizations and
individuals, including two members of
Congress. The majority of comments, as
well as Board Member Hayes’ dissent,
oppose the rule or aspects of it; many
opposing comments contain suggestions
for improvement in the event the Board
issues a final rule. Many comments,
however, support the rule; a few of
those suggest changes to clarify or
strengthen the rule. The Board wishes to
express its appreciation to all those who
took the time to submit thoughtful and
helpful comments and suggestions
concerning the proposed rule.®

After careful consideration of the
comments received, the Board has
decided to issue a final rule that is
similar to that proposed in the NPRM,
but with some changes suggested by
commenters. The most significant
change in the final rule is the deletion
of the requirement that employers
distribute the notice via email, voice
mail, text messaging or related
electronic communications if they
customarily communicate with their
employees in that manner. Other
significant changes include
clarifications of the employee notice
detailing employee rights protected by
the NLRA and unlawful conduct on the
part of unions; clarification of the rule’s
requirements for posting notices in
foreign languages; allowing employers
to post notices in black and white as
well as in color; and exemption of the
U.S. Postal Service from coverage of the
rule. The Board’s responses to the
comments, and the changes in the rule
and in the wording of the required
notice of employee rights occasioned by
the comments, are explained below. (In
his dissent, Board Member Hayes raises
a number of points that are also made
in some of the comments. The Board’s
responses to those comments should be
understood as responding to the dissent
as well.) 1°

comments received are included in the numbers
cited in text above, those numbers overstate
somewhat the number of individuals, organizations,
etc. that submitted comments.

®° Many comments charge that the Board is issuing
the rule for political reasons, to encourage and
spread unionism, to discourage employers and
employees from engaging in direct communication
and problem solving, to drive up union
membership in order to retain agency staff, and
even to “line [its] pockets.” The Board responds
that its reasons for issuing the rule are set forth in
this preamble.

10 The Board majority’s reasoning stands on its
own. By its silence, the majority does not adopt any
characterization made by the dissent of the
majority’s rationale or motives.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022278
