could “cure” many ailments. Mesmer
became highly sought after in Paris,
where he would routinely “mesmerize”
his followers—one of whom was Marie
Antoinette. The King wasn’t buying it,
however, and he asked a commission of
the French Academy of Sciences to
look into the claims. (The members in-
cluded Franklin, the chemist Antoine
Lavoisier, and Joseph Guillotin—who
invented the device that would eventu-
ally separate the King’s head from his
body.) The commission replicated some
of Mesmer’s sessions, and, in one case,
asked a young boy to hug magnetized
trees that were presumed to contain the
healing powers invoked by Mesmer. He
did as directed and responded as ex-
pected: he shook, convulsed, and
swooned. The trees, though, were not
magnetic, and Mesmer was denounced
as a fraud. Placebos and lies were inter-
twined in the public mind.

It was another hundred and fifty years
before scientists began to focus on the
role that emotions can play in healing.
During the Second World War, Lieu-
tenant Colonel Henry Beecher—who
went on to become the first chairman of
the anesthesia department at Massachu-
setts General Hospital—attempted to
assess the degree to which the severity
of a soldier's injuries corresponded to
the amount of pain he felt. In Europe,
Beecher met with more than two hun-
dred soldiers, gravely wounded but still
coherent enough to talk; he asked each
man if he wanted morphine. Seventy-
five per cent declined.

Beecher was astounded. He knew
from his experience before the war that
civilians with similar injuries would have
begged for morphine, and he had seen
healthy soldiers complain loudly about
the pain associated with minor inconve-
niences, like receiving vaccinations. He
concluded that the difference had to do
with expectations; a soldier who survived
a terrible attack often had a positive out-
look simply because he was still alive.
Beecher made a simple but powerful ob-
servation: our expectations can have a
profound impact on how we heal.

Armed with this information, and
with his conviction that the placebo
effect could be harnessed to help relieve
suffering, Beecher returned to the United
States and continued his research. In

1955, he published an article called “The

32 THE NEW YORKER, DECEMBER 12, 2011

Powerful Placebo,” in which he wrote
that “placebos have a high degree of ther-
apeutic effectiveness in treating subjec-
tive responses.” The paper has been cited
more than a thousand times by other sci-
entists, and Beecher’s conclusion—that
the placebo effect plays a critical role
in almost any medical intervention—
influenced much of what has followed in
clinical research. His basic supposition
was correct: emotions and expectations
can affect our perception of pain.

Before Beecher’s work, new drugs
were tested in a haphazard manner; since
then, they have always been compared
with a placebo or with another drug. But
Beecher’s methodology was deeply
flawed. Although he reported that place-
bos were effective more than a third of
the time, he shrugged off a phenomenon
known as “regression to the mean.” Over
time, the condition of most patients
improves, with or without treatment.
A person who enrolls in a clinical study
when he is feeling particularly bad is
likely to improve solely as a result of the
natural course of the illness, not because
he was given a placebo. (And people
often enroll in such studies when they are
sickest.) A patient who knows that he is
in a study also may expect a better thera-
peutic result than one who doesn’t. Ifyou
believe that doctors are particularly atten-
tive, you can get better more rapidly, even
if they aren't. This is known as the Haw-
thorne effect. (There is also a “nocebo
effect.” Expecting a placebo to do harm
or cause pain makes people sicker, not
better. When subjects in one notable
study were told that headaches are a side
effect of lumbar puncture, the number of
headaches they reported after the study
was finished increased sharply.)

For years, researchers could do little
but guess at the complex biology of the
placebo response. A meaningful picture
began to emerge only in the nineteen-
seventies, with the discovery of endor-
phins: substances secreted in the brain
that are chemically similar to opiates like
morphine and heroin. The discovery led
to the novel idea that, in effect, the brain
produces its own pharmacy. In 1978,
three scientists from the University of
California at San Francisco—Jon Levine,
Newton Gordon, and Howard Fields—
decided to investigate whether endor-
phins might explain why patients who
received placebos often reported a

significant reduction in pain. People re-
covering from dental surgery were told
that they were about to receive a dose of
morphine, saline, or a drug that might
increase their pain. By then, researchers
had learned not only about the nocebo
effect but that a suggestion of relief will
often trigger the production of endor-
phins, so they were not surprised that pa-
tients receiving saline reported reduced
pain.

What came next, however, funda-
mentally reshaped the field. The re-
searchers dismissed the subjects who re-
ceived morphine and then divided the
remaining participants into those who
responded to the placebo and those who
didn’t. Then they introduced Naloxone
into patients’ 1.V. drips. Naloxone was
developed to counteract overdoses of
heroin and morphine. It works essen-
tially by latching onto, and thus locking
up, key opioid receptors in the central
nervous system. The endorphins that we
secrete attach themselves to the same re-
ceptors in the same way, so Naloxone
blocks them, too. The researchers theo-
rized that, if endorphins had caused the
placebo effect, Naloxone would negate
their impact, and it did. The Naloxone
caused those who responded positively to
the placebos to experience a sharp in-
crease in pain; the drug had no effect on
the people who did not respond to the
placebo. The study was the first to pro-
vide solid evidence that the chemistry be-
hind the placebo effect could be under-
stood—and altered.

“Tt was one of those studies that make
the scales fall from your eyes,” Kaptchuk
told me. “T had just started to think about
the placebo eftect—scientifically and his-
torically. And here comes this paper that
says that, even if it’s all in your head, there
is still a biological mechanism driving
these reactions. It was very exciting.”

aptchuk assumed that the results

would add legitimacy to the field.
He was wrong. “Things are better than
they were,” he said. “But even now, you
know, people at Harvard talk about pla-
cebos the way the Popes used to talk
about medicine. They declared that Jews
were not allowed to treat Christians—
not because they were not good doctors
but because it would have been ethically
wrong. These are ethical judgments mas-
querading as science. Because from the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029927
