Treasury regulations provide that the anti-inversion legislation is applicable to a foreign partnership that is
or becomes a “publicly traded partnership” within two years of the acquisition by it of a U.S. corporation.
A “publicly traded partnership” is any partnership (i) interests in which are traded on an established
securities market, or (if) interests in which are readily tradabie on a secondary market (or the substantial
equivalent thereof). KUE believes that it is not currently a publicly traded partnership and does not intend
to become a publicly traded partnership within two years of this offering or the acquisition of KLC and 412,
AS a result, KUE does not believe the anti-inversion legislation or any regulations promulgated within the
scope of the legislation’s regulatory authority should apply to KUE although no assurance can be given in
this regard or with respect to any new acquisitions of or investment in U.S. corporations. In addition, KUE
does not believe that any other Code provision subjecting non-U.S. corporations to U.S. federal income
tax should apply to KUE or its subsidiaries, although no assurance can be given in this regards. The
promulgation of contrary regulations or a successful challenge of either of these positions by the Internal
Revenue Service could materially reduce a holder's after-tax return and, thus, could result in a substantial
reduction of the value of the Units.

The remainder of this section assumes that KUE will be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income
tax purposes.

18.2.2 United States Federal Income Taxation of Partners

U.S. Persons

Allocation of Purchase Price. You will be treated as purchasing a Unit consisting of two components, one
Common LP Unit and one GP Share. Your purchase price for each Unit will be allocated between one
Common LP Unit and one GP Share in proportion to their relative fair market values at the time of your
purchase, and this allocation will establish your initial tax basis in both your ownership interest in the
Common LP Unit and your GP Share. We will treat the fair market value of each Common LP Share at
$999 and the fair market value of each GP Share as $1.

Flow-Through of Taxable Income. KUE will not pay any U.S. federal income tax. Instead, each Partner
will be required to report on its income tax return its allocable share (as determined pursuant fo the
Limited Partnership Agreement) of KUE's income, gains, losses, and deductions without regard to
whether corresponding cash distributions are made. The Limited Partnership Agreement authorizes the
General Partner to override the allocation provisions of the Limited Partnership Agreement and allocate
income, gains, losses and deductions of KUE to the Partners in a manner that achieves the desired
economic arrangement of KUE, which is to return each Pariner's capital contribution and then for all
Partners (including the holder of Profits Participation LP Units) to share in the profits of KUE in proportion
to the number of Units held by them.

The IRS may challenge the manner in which income, gains, losses and deductions are allocated to
holders of Common LP Units, the General Partner and holders of the Profits Participation LP Units under
the Limited Partnership Agreement. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, allocation of any item of
income, gain, loss or deduction io a partner in a partnership will be given effect so long as the allocation
has “substantial economic effect,” or is otherwise in accordance with the partner's interest in the
partnership. If an allocation of an item pursuant to the Limited Partnership Agreement does not satisfy
this standard or is deemed not to satisfy this standard by the IRS, it will be reallocated by the IRS among
the Partners on the basis of their respective interests in KUE (as determined by the IRS), taking into
account all facts and circumstances. In such a case, holders of Common LP Units could have additional
tax liabilities or suffer adverse tax consequences.

Treatment of Cash Distributions, WKUE's distributions to a Partner generally will not be taxable to the
Partner for U.S. federal income tax purposes to the extent of such Partner’s adjusted tax basis in its
Common LP Units immediately before the distribution, Cash distributions in excess of a Limited Partner's
adjusted tax basis generally will be considered to be gain from the sale or exchange of the Common LP
Units. Any reduction in a Limited Partner's share of KUE's liabilities, if any, for which no Partner bears the

142

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024575
