bother you most. The war-or-peace dilemmas of foreign policy are an essential case
— when they go wrong, they hammer all of us. And we can see in the ripples of global
power ideas that are of use in nearly any sphere. How, for instance, to fight a
network. The struggle of JIEDDO is, in a sense, similar to something all of us face
now: Old vs. new. In any event, in the case of the IEDs, here was the most powerful
nation in human history, backed by hypersonic missiles, always-on radars, and
endless jet fuel that found itself unable to stop a group of half-educated and
promiscuously backwards terrorists. You had to ask: What was wrong? And did the
failure suggest something even deeper about the position of the dominant national
power of the era? About the nature of our age?

3.

A few days before Christmas of December of 1787, Thomas Jefferson sat down in
Paris to write a letter to James Madison.*? Madison was on the other side of the
Atlantic, in Philadelphia, and struggling with refinements to the new American
constitution, which had been drafted in the spring and summer just passed. The two
men were frequent correspondents. They wrote to each other with an easy
familiarity, revolutionary to revolutionary. Jefferson was then 44, and had settled
hungrily into his role as the American minister in France, “violently smitten,” as he
wrote, by the charms of The Continent*+. Madison was 36, twenty years removed
from the election of 1808 that would elevate him to the Presidency as Jefferson’s
successor. Madison would become, in a sense, America’s first “Foreign Policy”
President, prosecuting the war of 1812 and negotiating with France for the
Louisiana Purchase. He was known already, in 1787, as “The Father of the
Constitution.”

Jefferson begins his letter with a few of the charming literary asides we expect from
him: He asks Madison about some nuns he wants to help teach his children, inquires
after about a packet of carefully chosen South Carolina rice that has gone missing in
the oceanic post, delaying his plans to impress French palates with an American
crop. But then Jefferson turns to what he knows must be on Madison’s mind, the
new constitution. “I like much the general idea of framing a government which
should go on of itself peaceably,” he says, admiring the elegant balance that emerges
so carefully from the pages of the document. The American constitution, Jefferson
felt, reflected political arrangements new in the history of human governance,
between people and power, between states and the center, between agriculture and
commerce. He is, he says, “capitaved” by the details of what he has seen.

43 A few days before Christmas: Thomas Jefferson and James Madison, The
Republic of Letters: The Correspondence between Thomas Jefferson and James
Madison, 1776-1826, (New York: Norton, 1995) Vol 1. pp, 457-459

44 Jefferson was then 44: Thomas Jefferson and Douglas L. Wilson. Jefferson Abroad.
Modern Library ed. (New York: Modern Library, 1999) letter to Madame de Tesse,
20 March 1787

39

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018271
