AS A CRIME VICTIM, YOU HAVE THE
FOLLOWING RIGHTS under
18 United States Code, Section 3771:

® The right to be reasonably protected from the
accused;

© The right to reasonable, accurate, and timely notice of
any public court proceeding, or any parole
proceeding, involving the crime or of any release or
escape of the accused;

& The right not to be excluded from any such public
court proceeding, unless the court, after reviewing
clear and convincing evidence, determines that
testimony by the victim would be materially altered if
the victim heard other testimony at that proceeding;

The right to be reasonably heard at any public
proceeding in the district court involving the release,
plea, sentencing, or any parole proceeding;

The right to confer with the attorney for the
Government in the case;

The right to full and timely restitution as provided in
law;

The right to proceedings free from unreasonable
delay;

The right to be treated with fairness and with respect
for the victim's dignity and privacy.

&

@ © @ 6

We will make our best efforts to ensure you are
afforded the rights described. Most of these rights
pertain to events occurring after the indictment of an
individual for the crime, and it will be the responsibility
of the prosecuting United States Attorney's Office to
ensure you are afforded those rights. You may also
seek the advice of a private attorney with respect to
these rights.

IF YOU ARE THREATENED OR HARASSED

Your safety is paramount. !f anyone threatens you or you feel
that you are being harassed because of your cooperation with
this investigation, there are available remedies. If you are
in immediate danger, contact your local law enforcement
agency mmediately. Also, you should contact your Victim
Specialist or the Case Agent and inform them of the

situation. There are penalties for harassment and other
threats; therefore, it is important that you report any
incident as soon as possible.

IF YOU NEED FINANCIAL HELP OR
SUPPORT SERVICES

All states have crime victims compensation programs

that help cover some expenses resulting from violent crimes. |
Your state program may pay for medical and mental health
care costs, lost wages and support, and funeral and burial
expenses not covered by insurance or other benefits. Your
FBI Victim Specialist may be able to help intercede on your
behalf with employers and creditors, when appropriate. In
addition, your Victim Specialist can refer you to other types of
programs and services, such as emergency housing,
counseling, support groups, and credit counseling. If the
offender is convicted or pleads guilty, the court may order
payment by the offender, called restitution, which may help
cover expenses and losses caused by your victimization.

IF YOUR PROPERTY WAS STOLEN OR
HELD AS EVIDENCE

If your property was stolen, we hope
to recover it as part of our
investigation and return it as soon ye
as possible. If your property is held y, <
as evidence, we will notify you, “ey
maintain it in good condition,

and make every effort to see

that it is returned to you as quickly
as possible when it is no longer
needed as evidence.

Please understand that some property we receive as |
evidence has been damaged during the course of the crime. |

yh

if
Hy
Ye

IF AN ARREST IS MADE

Every effort will be made to notify you if a suspect is |
apprehended. If crimina! charges are filed, you will be
contacted by the United States Attorney's Office (USAQ}

assigned to handle your case.

Each USAO has a Victim Witness Coordinator

to help answer your questions and deal with

your concerns during the prosecution of the

case.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021559 ~
