example, invading another country is not aggressive, but designed as a pre-emptive strike to protect group
interests.

Moral disengagement enables behaviors that are either immoral, illegal, or counter to deeply
rooted intuitive prohibitions against harming others. It is a process that has the beneficial consequence of
empowering soldiers to go to war under just causes, as well as the toxic consequence of empowering
rogue leaders to carry out genocide under unjust causes. It is a process that allows us to hibernate from
our moral responsibilities. It is a form of self-deception, a partner to dehumanization in the denial of
reality. But self-deception, like deception of others, is not always harmful. In fact, it is often highly

adaptive.

Angelic denial

In a nationally televised address in 2005, the Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad pronounced that
the Jews had created a myth in the name of the Holocaust and consider it above God, religion and the
prophets. Judge Daniel Schreber believed that his brain was softening and that he was turning into a
woman in order to form a sexual union with God. During a doctor’s visit, a man reported that his pet
poodle had been replaced by an impostor, masquerading as if he was the real deal. Judge Patrick
Couwenberg stated under oath that he received the Purple Heart for military operations in Vietnam, and
soon thereafter carried out covert missions in Southeast Asia and Africa as a CIA agent. The pilots of Air
Florida flight 90 ignored signs from their dashboard indicating engine trouble and then proceeded to crash
into a bridge, killing 74 of the 79 people on board. In 2008, while Hilary Clinton was running for
President of the United States, she regaled admiring supporters with stories of her international
experience, including her visit to Bosnia in 1996 where her plane was forced to land “under sniper fire”,
followed by a rapid evacuation for cover. When I was a teenager, I often walked onto the tennis court
thinking that I was John McEnroe, serving and volleying like the world’s number one player.

Each case above tells the story of a person who acted as if the world was one way even though it
wasn’t. The Holocaust and its trail of atrocities were real, confirmed by thousands of scarred survivors
and the relatives who have heard their accounts. Judge Couwenberg was never in Vietnam, never earned a
Purple Heart, and never had a connection with the CIA. There are no pet poodle impostors. Our brains
don’t soften, though they do deteriorate with age. When dashboard indicators suggest engine trouble,
better to be safe than sorry when you are responsible for the lives of many people. Hilary Clinton landed
in the exceptionally safe airport of Tuzla where she was warmly greeted by US and Bosnian officials. I

am no McEnroe.

Hauser Chapter 3. Ravages of denial 106

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012852
