The Rise of the NSA | 203

communications intelligence allowed the CIA (and other U.S. intelli-
gence services) to test and verify the reports of their human sources
in foreign countries. Moreover, because of the immense amount of
foreign data that the NSA vacuumed in through its global sensors,
it provided the CIA with an effective means for discovering new
targets in adversary nations.

By the first decade of this century, the NSA’s surreptitious efforts
to render the Internet transparent to U.S. intelligence had earned it
a new set of enemies. They were the previously mentioned hacktiv-
ists who were attempting to shield the activities of Internet users
from the intrusions of government surveillance. They employed
both encryption and Tor software to defeat that surveillance. But the
NSA did not conceal that it was intent on countering any attempt to
interfere with its surveillance of the Internet. It built back doors into
encryption and worked to unravel the Tor scrambling of IP addresses.
It made leading hacktivists targets. Brian Hale, the spokesman for
the director of national intelligence, disclosed that the United States
routinely intercepted the cyber signatures of parties suspected of

© hacking into U.S. government networks. ®

Following the 9/11 attacks on the Pentagon and the World Trade
Center, the surveillance of the Internet became an integral part of
the Bush administration’s war on terrorism. In October 2001, Con-
gress expanded the NSA’s mandate by passing the USA Patriot Act.
As I described earlier, Section 215 of the act directly authorized
the NSA, with the approval of the FISA court, to collect and store
domestic telephone billing records. The idea was to better coordinate
domestic and foreign intelligence about al-Qaeda and other jihad-
ist groups. This put the NSA directly in the anti-terrorist business.
It also necessitated the NSA vastly increasing its coverage of the
Internet.

The mantra in government in this post-9/11 intelligence world
became “connect the dots.” Congress through this act essentially
demolished the wall between domestic and foreign intelligence
when any NSA activity related to foreign-directed terrorism. It fur-
ther made the NSA a partner with the FBI in tracking phone calls

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.indd 203 ® 9/30/16 8:13AM | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019691
