and Melania. Instead of wearing a game face, going into the inaugural events, the
president-elect wore what some around him had taken to calling his golf face: angry and
pissed off, shoulders hunched, arms swinging, brow furled, lips pursed. This had become
the public Trump—truculent Trump.

An inauguration is supposed to be a love-in. The media gets a new and upbeat story.
For the party faithful, happy times are here again. For the permanent government—the
swamp—it’s a chance to curry favor and seek new advantage. For the country, it’s a
coronation. But Bannon had three messages or themes he kept trying to reinforce with his
boss: his presidency was going to be different—as different as any since Andrew
Jackson’s (he was supplying the less-than-well-read president-elect with Jackson-related
books and quotes); they knew who their enemies were and shouldn’t fall into the trap of
trying to make them their friends, because they wouldn’t be; and so, from day one, they
should consider themselves on a war footing. While this spoke to Trump’s combative
“counterpuncher” side, it was hard on his eager-to-be-liked side. Bannon saw himself as
managing these two impulses, emphasizing the former and explaining to his boss why
having enemies here created friends somewhere else.

In fact, Trump’s aggrieved mood became a perfect match for the Bannon-written
agerieved inaugural address. Much of the sixteen-minute speech was part of Bannon’s
daily joie de guerre patter—his take-back-the-country America-first, carnage-everywhere
vision for the country. But it actually became darker and more forceful when filtered
through Trump’s disappointment and delivered with his golf face. The administration
purposely began on a tone of menace—a Bannon-driven message to the other side that the
country was about to undergo profound change. Trump’s wounded feelings—his sense of
being shunned and unloved on the very day he became president—helped send that
message. When he came off the podium after delivering his address, he kept repeating,
“Nobody will forget this speech.”

George W. Bush, on the dais, supplied what seemed likely to become the historic
footnote to the Trump address: “That’s some weird shit.”

OOK Ok

Trump, despite his disappointment at Washington’s failure to properly greet and celebrate
him, was, like a good salesman, an optimist. Salesmen, whose primary characteristic and
main asset is their ability to keep selling, constantly recast the world in positive terms.
Discouragement for everyone else is merely the need to improve reality for them.

By the next morning, Trump was soliciting affirmation of his view that the
inauguration had been a great success. “That crowd went all the way back. That were
more than a million people at least, right?” He made a series of phone calls to friends who
largely yes’d him on this. Kushner confirmed a big crowd. Conway did nothing to
dissuade him. Priebus agreed. Bannon made a joke.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019917
