Trump’s understanding of his own essential nature was even more precise. Once,
coming back on his plane with a billionaire friend who had brought along a foreign model,
Trump, trying to move in on his friend’s date, urged a stop in Atlantic City. He would
provide a tour of his casino. His friend assured the model that there was nothing to
recommend Atlantic City. It was a place overrun by white trash.

“What is this “white trash’?” asked the model.
“They’re people just like me,” said Trump, “only they’re poor.”

He looked for a license not to conform, not to be respectable. It was something of an
outlaw prescription for winning—and winning, however you won, was what it was all
about.

Or, as his friends would observe, mindful themselves not to be taken in, he simply had
no scruples. He was a rebel, a disruptor, and, living outside the rules, contemptuous of
them. A close Trump friend who was also a good Bill Clinton friend found them eerily
similar—except that Clinton had a respectable front and Trump did not.

One manifestation of this outlaw personality, for both Trump and Clinton, was their
brand of womanizing—and indeed, harassing. Even among world-class womanizers and
harassers, they seemed exceptionally free of doubt or hesitation.

Trump liked to say that one of the things that made life worth living was getting your
friends’ wives into bed. In pursuing a friend’s wife, he would try to persuade the wife that
her husband was perhaps not what she thought. Then he’d have his secretary ask the friend
into his office; once the friend arrived, Trump would engage in what was, for him, more or
less constant sexual banter. Do you still like having sex with your wife? How often? You
must have had a better fuck than your wife? Tell me about it. I have girls coming in from
Los Angeles at three o’clock. We can go upstairs and have a great time. I promise ... And
all the while, Trump would have his friend’s wife on the speakerphone, listening in.

Previous presidents, and not just Clinton, have of course lacked scruples. What was, to
many of the people who knew Trump well, much more confounding was that he had
managed to win this election, and arrive at this ultimate accomplishment, wholly lacking
what in some obvious sense must be the main requirement of the job, what neuroscientists
would call executive function. He had somehow won the race for president, but his brain
seemed incapable of performing what would be essential tasks in his new job. He had no
ability to plan and organize and pay attention and switch focus; he had never been able to
tailor his behavior to what the goals at hand reasonably required. On the most basic level,
he simply could not link cause and effect.

The charge that Trump colluded with the Russians to win the election, which he
scoffed at, was, in the estimation of some of his friends, a perfect example of his inability
to connect the dots. Even if he hadn’t personally conspired with the Russians to fix the
election, his efforts to curry favor with, of all people, Vladimir Putin had no doubt left a

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019901
