54020

Federal Register/Vol. 76, No. 168/Tuesday, August 30, 2011/Rules and Regulations

75 FR 80418-80419 (footnote omitted).

The Board received a few suggestions
for changes to the introduction of the
notice. The first comment suggests
including language stating that
employees are required to contact their
“executive manager” or ‘‘administrative
team” before contacting the NLRB and
suggests that the NLRB refuse to process
employees’ complaints until the
employees first raise the issue with his
or her ‘‘management team.” The second
comment, from COLLE, urges the Board
to add language in the introduction
alerting employees that they also have
the right to refrain from engaging in
union activity. The comment suggests
that by not including the right to refrain
from union activity in the introduction,
the Board is showing a bias toward
union organizing. The comment argues
that a more neutral notice would
include both the right to engage and not
engage in union activity at the
beginning of the document, rather than
wait to first mention the right to refrain
in the affirmative rights section.

The Board does not agree with the
proposal that employees be required to
contact management officials as a
prerequisite to contacting the Board.
Such a procedural requirement is not
contemplated in the NLRA and could
discourage employees from exercising
or vindicating their rights.

The Board agrees, however, that the
introduction should include both the
rights to engage in union and other
concerted activity and the right to
refrain from doing so. The Board
believes that adding the right to refrain
to the introduction will aid in the
Board’s approach to present a balanced
and neutral statement of rights.
Accordingly, the first sentence in the
introduction to the notice in the final
rule will state:

The National Labor Relations Act (NLRA)
guarantees the right of employees to organize
and bargain collectively with their
employers, and to engage in other protected
concerted activity or to refrain from engaging
in any of the above activity.

b. Comments Regarding Affirmative
Statement of Rights

The proposed notice contains the
following statement of affirmative
rights: Under the NLRA, you have the
right to:

Organize a union to negotiate with your
employer concerning your wages, hours, and
other terms and conditions of employment.

Form, join or assist a union.

Bargain collectively through
representatives of employees’ own choosing
for a contract with your employer setting
your wages, benefits, hours, and other
working conditions.

Discuss your terms and conditions of
employment or union organizing with your
co-workers or a union.

Take action with one or more co-workers
to improve your working conditions by,
among other means, raising work-related
complaints directly with your employer or
with a government agency, and seeking help
from a union.

Strike and picket, depending on the
purpose or means of the strike or the
picketing.

Choose not to do any of these activities,
including joining or remaining a member of
a union.

75 FR 80419.

The majority of comments addressing
the affirmative rights section were
general and did not specifically address
the language of the individual
provisions. Generally, labor
organizations and employee advocate
groups favor the Board’s language. A
comment from the United Food and
Commercial Workers International
Union asserts that the approach
“achieves an appropriate balance
between providing sufficiently clear
information about employee’s basic
statutory rights and limiting
unnecessary and confusing information
about peripheral rights.’’ On the other
hand, comments from employer groups
do not favor the Board’s language. More
specifically, employer groups argue that
the notice is biased toward union
organizing. Generally, the comments
argue that the right to refrain from
engaging in union activity should have
a more prominent place on the notice,
rather than being the last of the rights
listed on the poster. Many of these
comments contend that the notice
should include the right not to engage
in specific union-related activities.

Other comments about the notice’s
statement of affirmative rights are
directed at individual provisions of the
notice. A discussion of those comments
is set out in more detail below.

i. The Right To Organize and the Right
To Form, Join and Assist a Union

A few comments generally state that
the notice should include the
consequences of exercising the right to
organize, join or form a union.1°> For
example, several comments argue that
employees should be informed that if
they join a union they give up the right
to deal directly with their employers.
Another comment argues that
employees should be informed of the
cost of organizing a union, including the
cost of dues and the potential for the
company to shut down because of
increased labor costs associated with a
unionized workforce. Other comments

105 See, e.g., comment of Pilchak Cohen & Tice.

suggest including language informing
employees that they can be fired for not
paying their union dues.

The Board rejects those suggestions.
The notice is intended to inform
employees of the rights that they have
under the NLRA and does not include
the benefits or consequences of
exercising any of the enumerated rights.
Adding the consequences of one right
would require revising the entire notice
to include potential consequences—
both positive and negative—of all the
protected rights. For example, the notice
would need to include the
consequences of refraining from joining
a union, such as not being permitted to
vote on contract ratifications or attend
union membership meetings. The
necessary additions to the notice would
create a notice that is not a concise list
of rights, but more likely a pamphlet-
sized list of rights and explanations. In
addition, the consequences of
unionization are unique to each
unionized workplace, so it would be
impossible to include a list of general
consequences that could apply
uniformly to all unionized workplaces.
If employees have questions about the
implications of any of their rights, they
can contact an NLRB regional office.

Assisted Living Federation of America
(ALFA) suggests that the affirmative
rights section should be revised to
reflect the anti-union position. For
example, rather than the current
provision that states that employees
have a right to “organize a union to
negotiate with your employer
concerning your wages, hours, and other
terms and conditions of employment,”
the comment suggests the following
provision: ‘‘you have the right to
organize with other employees in
opposition to a particular union or
unions.”’ And “you have the right to:
refuse to form, join, or assist a union,
including the right to refuse to sign a
union card, attend a union meeting or
supply a union with information
concerning you, your co-worker or your
job,” rather than “‘[you have the right to]
[florm, join or assist a union.” The
Board disagrees. The Board’s proposed
notice language reflects the language of
the NLRA itself, which specifically
grants affirmative rights, including
nearly all of those listed in the notice.
Also, the notice, like the NLRA, states
that employees have the right to refrain
from engaging in all of the listed
activities. The Board therefore sees no
need to recast the notice to further
emphasize the right to oppose unions.

ii. The Right To Bargain Collectively

Two comments suggest that the
collective-bargaining provision is

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022291
