I found a solution that seemed to make sense then. It was the exact opposite of what
I think now. If maintenance consumption were recovered in pay and work products,
as I now think human depreciation but not maintenance consumption is, then
human depreciation instead of maintenance consumption could be exhausted in
taste satisfaction! That seemed less macabre to me then. I looked for ways in which
human depreciation, hardly the biological end in itself, could somehow be its
measure. It was not unreasonable, I thought, to interpret human depreciation in
aging as the cost of survival. The old gag says that aging is not so bad when you
think about the alternative. Age-wage profiles could be explained, I thought then, as
recovery of maintenance consumption rather than of human depreciation in pay.
And I had those precedents from the 18 century. I knew that Francois Quesnay
and the physiocrats, in Adam Smith's time, had argued too that consumption could
be recovered in earnings. Mill could be interpreted that way, in his definition of
“productive consumption”, as could Piero Sraffa in a paper from 1960. | thought I

was on the right track.

What brought me to my senses was the thought experiment about a boss and her
secretary I mentioned earlier. Picture them together at the beginning of the last year
of human capital for each. The boss earns ten times as much. Human capital for each
is one year’s pay, or even less in the unlikely case that invested consumption
continues to the end, less one year’s discount. If pay measured work, rate of return
(work/human capital) would be something over 100% per year for each. It would
be even more in the unlikely case that some work remains unrealized (self-invested)
until the end. Yet their time preferences measured by return to their other
investments, say securities, is less than a tenth as much. This already states pretty

clearly that pay covers more than work.

In case there was doubt, go on to the beginning of the last day. Age-wage profiles
show that pay for each is about what it was a year before. Rate of return to each is
now a little over 100% per day. At the beginning of the last second, it is a little over

100% per second. At the end of the last second it is infinite. Yet the securities in their

Chapter 2: Fast Forward 1/06/16 18

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010958
