BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. What's her phone number?

A. Her phone number is known to Virginia
Roberts and presumably -- and to Virginia Roberts’
lawyers because she received phone calls from
Virginia Roberts! lawyers. So all you have to do is
ask your colleagues and you will get that. But I
think there's no reason to put her phone number in
the public record so that she will receive massive
amounts of phone calls from the media. Seems to me
that any -- that a judge would try to prevent that
from happening. I would hope so. And I'm -- you
can get the name and the phone number from my lawyer
as long as it's --

MR. SCOTT: We'll provide that.

A. --+ done off the record, not so that the
media can see it.

BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. You just swore under oath that lawyers
contacted Rebecca; is that correct?

A. [swore under oath that I was told by
Michael that lawyers contacted Rebecca, yes.

Q. Which lawyers?

A. I don't know the answer to that.

Q. Did you ask him?

wo Orn nub WNP

NNNNNN FPP RP PRP PPP BP PR
WU WN FP OW OY DM e® wY NR OO

231

more accomplished.

MR. SCAROLA: Let's take it easy and slow.

BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. How did Michael tell you he knew these
people he didn't speak to were lawyers?

A. He told me that he received a phone call
from Virginia Roberts. That then his wife received
numerous phone calls and texts from her all through
the night. And that they received phone calls as
well from her lawyers. One of them had a Miami
phone number.

And I don't know how he knew they were
lawyers. But that's what he conveyed to me. Alll
can tell you is what he told me, and I'm telling you
that.

Q. Did you ask him for the phone number?

A. [did not.

Q. Why not?

A. | didn't think it was appropriate or
necessary.

Q. What was inappropriate about asking for
the phone number to find out who was attempting to
contact this witness?

A. | was not particularly interested in that.

All 1 was interested in was getting the truth from

I did.

And he said, I --
. He wouldn't answer that.
. -- refuse to tell you?

A. No, he didn’t know the answer to that
either because he didn't return the phone calls. He
said --

Q. How did he know they were lawyers if he
didn't return the phone calls?

A. Because they left messages, presumably.

Q. With names that identified them as
lawyers; is that right?

MR. SCOTT: You're arguing with the
witness --
A. [don't know the answer to that.

MR. SCAROLA: No, I'm trying to find out
whether there's any logical basis for the

stories that the witness is telling.

MR. SCOTT: And I think he's trying to
explain it. And I think he's trying to do it

in an easy, slow format. So, you know --
MR. SCAROLA: Okay. Well, let's take it

easy --
MR. SCOTT: -- if we all take -- if we all
take the tension down here, maybe we can get

oO OI DM F&F WN

NNNNN NPP RPP RP PP PP PB
Ue WNP OW OMNIA UN FWNF OO

232

the witness and trying to prevent her from having a
media barrage that would interfere with their lives.

Q. You told Don Lemon on CNN that the flight
manifests would exonerate you, prove that you were
not in the same place at the same time as Virginia
Roberts, correct?

A. That's right. And that's true.

Q. You also told Don Lemon, quote, ] am
waiving the statute of limitations or any immunity.

A. That's right.

Q. You were then subsequently asked to waive
the statute of limitations and refused to, correct?

A. Absolutely false.

I waived the statute of limitations by
submitting a statement under oath. Had I not
submitted that statement under oath, the statute of
limitations would have been long gone. But by
stating under oath categorically that I did not have
any sexual contact with her, I waived the statute of
limitations and could be prosecuted for the next
five or so years for perjury in what I said was
false.

But what | said was true, so I have no
fear of any statute of limitations or any criminal
prosecution. So, yes, | did waive the statute of

14 (Pages 229 to 232)

www. phippsreporting.com
(888) 811-3408

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010796
