jiabilities other than in connection with its acting as general partner of KUE and as described in this
Memorandum.

The day to day business of the General Partner will be generally be conducted by its directors, although
certain matters require the approval of its shareholders pursuant to the Companies Law and the General
Partner's Articles of Association. Under Cayman Islands law, a director of a Cayman Islands company is
obliged to comply with a number of duties, breach of which may, in certain circumstances, result in
personal liability on the part of the director. However, provided a director complies with the fiduciary
duties and the requisite duties of care, diligence and skill, the fact that a decision turns out to be wrong,
not beneficial, or causes loss, will not of itself necessarily establish personal liability.

As a general rule, in the absence of a contractual arrangement to the contrary, the liability of a
shareholder of a Cayman Islands exempted company which has been incorporated with limited liability is
limited to the amount from time to time unpaid in respect of the par value of, together with the share
premium payable on, the shares he holds; the company having a separate legal personality from that of
its shareholders, and being separately liable for its own debts due to third parties, However, although
there is no decided Cayman Islands authority on the issue, English common law authority (which would
be regarded as persuasive, though technically not binding, in the courts of the Cayman Islands), supports
the proposition that it in exceptional circumstances it is conceivable that the principle of the separate legal
personality of a company could be ignored and the court will “pierce the corporate veil.” Examples might
be a company acting as the agent or nominee of its shareholder, incorporation for an illegal or improper
purpose, using a company or group of companies as a means of perpetrating a fraud, or using the
separate personality of a company to circumvent a pre-existing obligation of its proprietor.

14.3. Classes of Units; Capital Contributions

Assuming that 1,000,000 Units are sold to Investors by March 31, 2007, and that the accrued dividends
on the preferred limited partner units are paid in cash, approximately 2,530,000 Units will be outstanding.
The Investors will own approximately 40% of KUE in the form of Common LP Units and approximately
40% of the General Partner in the form of Class A Shares.

The General Partner will be the sole general partner of KUE and will hold approximately 1,000 General
Partner Units (“GP Units’) in KUE, representing approximately 0.04% ownership in KUE.

The economic interest in KUE represenied by the Common LP Units and the GP Units will be reduced by
the Profits Participation LP Units as described below under Distributions.

Assuming that 1,000,000 Units are sold to Investors by March 31, 2007, and that the accrued dividends
on the preferred limited partner units are paid in cash, KUE LLC, controlled by the Principals, will hold
approximately 1,530,000 Common LP Units representing approximately 60% ownership in KUE and
1,530,000 Class A Shares. The Common LP Units owned by KUE LLC will not be transferable, except (i)
to the Principals; (ii) to affiliates of the Principals and/or (iii) to family members and/or charitable
organizations in connection with the Principals’ estate planning, unless combined with the corresponding
percentage of Class A Shares to form Units and transferred in the form of Units in accordance with the
Limited Partnership Agreement.

Knowledge Universe Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“KUH LLC”) conirolled by the
Principals, will hold 900 Class B ordinary shares of the General Partner (the “Class B Shares). The
Class B Shares held by the Principals and their affiliates will not be transferable, except to (i) the
Principals; {ii) to the affiliates of the Principals; and/or (iii) to family members and/or charitable
organizations in connection with the Principals’ estate planning. The Class B Shares will automatically
convert to Class A Shares if the Principals’ aggregate direct and indirect economic interest in KUE is less
than 15% of the outstanding Partnership Units (as defined below) of KUE.

A limited liability company (KULG LLC-1), of which Knowledge Universe Learning Group LLC, a
Delaware limited liability company that is controlled by the Principals (KULG”), and certain other persons

116

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024549
