- The conference attendee who took the ‘selfie’ photo did not lodge a formal complaint to the conference
organisers

at the time of the incident (November 2016).

- The conference attendee who witnessed the incident, did not lodge a formal complaint to the conference
organisers

at the time of the incident (November 2016).

The photo submitted as part of the complaint does not provide evidence of any physical contact.

- The complainant alleged that a photo exists, showing your hand on the breast of the conference attendee who
took

the ‘selfie’ photo. This photo was not made available to the Australian National University, although it was
requested

in the course of the investigation.”

(And for the record I often put my hand up in front of a camera if there is a flash, as I specifically request selfies
not to include flashes, so that I don’t end up with a series bright spots in front of my eyes for the next half hour)

What makes this particular type of allegation so repugnant is that I get asked for literally thousands of selfies,
and when people come up to me they are vulnerable, often shaking, and sometimes overly aggressive. I am
particularly proud of the way I attempt to make all people feel at ease, and respected, rather than humiliated.
Thus, this false claim strikes at the heart of what I am about, which is to acknowledge fans in a way that makes
them feel appreciated. As I understand you had a reporter watching me sign books and take selfies at the CFI
conference in Las Vegas this year, that behavior is what they will have witnessed. Moreover, I am proud of the
interactions I have had at both Case and ASU, with students, colleagues and staff of all genders and
ethnicities. I have worked hard to support them, mentor them, and treat them with respect. I treat others as
responsible adults, and I expect to be treated equally.

Lawrence M. Krauss

Director, The Origins Project at ASU

Co-Director, Cosmology Initiative

Foundation Professor

School of Earth & Space Exploration and Physics Department

Arizona State University, P.O. Box 871404, Tempe, AZ 85287-1404
Origins Office

origins.asu.edu | twitter.com/Ikrauss1 | krauss.faculty.asu.edu

” - =
RSU Origins
PREOGIECT

ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY

On Dec 10, 2017, at 9:53 PM, Lawrence Krauss wrote:

First draft:

It is hard to know how to respond to a list of false and/or distorted allegations, along with misleading statements
on your part. Needless to say, I treat people I interact with with respect, and I work hard to support and mentor
students, colleagues, and members of the general public. I do not sexually harass people. If the purpose of your
reporting is to somehow argue that that Universities and other institutions are lax in dealing with well known
individuals like myself, then in fact the situation is quite the opposite. My high public profile opens me up to
more scrutiny at these institutions, not less, and it also opens me up to a host of outside complaints and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031248
