wo owt nm Fwd

NNNNNN BPP BP PP SP ep BE
“UP WN HF Ob MAN AU BWNR OO

ow MOAN AM PF WN

BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. -- “who would fit into this description?
They and the woman got together and contrived and
made this up.

Did you make that statement on national
television?

A. Yes, aud | just repeated it under oath. I
believe that to be the case. | think that's exactly
what happened. And I think that my source has
corroborated that.

By the way, can J add at this point -- I
don't mean to distract you, but | think the record
would be more complete if [ indicated that I did get
a phone eall last night from Michael, who told me
that he had received numerous phone calls and texts
from Virginia Roberts trying to persuade her not to
talk to me or cooperate with me and offering the
help of a lawyer.

And I also -- although you didn't ask the
question, Mr. Scarola, I think for eompleteness and
fullness, I do want to say that you asked me whether
or not I knew about what could be taped and what
couldn't be taped. I did tape record some of what
Virginia Roberts [sic.] told me, with her

on~rInwm & wn

NNNNNN FRPP BP BP PP ep
“UbBwWwnNeE Ow AYNHU AWNEHE OW

who made transcripts of them.

Q. Did you turn them over to opposing
counsel --

MR. SCOTT: The transcripts --

BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. --in the course of discovery?

MR. SCOTT: The transeripts we consider to
be work product. If you make a request to
produee, we'll provide them.

MR. SIMPSON: Just for completeness, they
were also after your discovery request.

MR. SCOTT: Request to produce, we'll
eonsider providing them,

BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. Is there an entry in any privilege log
that identifies these allegedly privileged work
preduct documents?

MR. SIMPSON: We will -- the lawyers will
address the document production issues. But
two things, Mr. Scarola, first, they postdate
your request and you have said several times
there's no duty to supplement. And second,
they're work product.

MR. SCAROLA: Well, sir, if they postdated
a full and complete production, which we are

permission, and I have those tape recordings.

Q. Well, you're getting a little bit
overexcited, Mr. Dershowitz, because you never tape
recorded anything that Virginia Roberts told you.

A. Did I say Virginia Roberts?

Q. You misspoke.

A. Imisspoke. You wouldn't know that. But,
in faet, let me be clear.

1 tape recorded, with her permission,
Rebecca's statements to me about what Virginia
Roberts had told her. And | just want to make sure
that for completeness, even though you didn't ask
the question yesterday, that's part of the record.

Q. Well, Lactually did ask the question and
my recollection is that you said you didn't even
think about tape recording anything --

MR. SCOTT: No, that's not aecurate. You

never asked that.
BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. But can you tell us, please, did you turn
over those tape recordings in the discovery that you
were required to make in this case?

A. The discovery -- these events occurred
after April of 2015. And | certainly tumed over
the recordings and the -- recordings to my lawyers,

onwnm & Wd FB

NNNNN NEP PEP BPP PB eB
MU BWNHP OW OYA AWNHEHE OY

224

now told they do not, then you wouldn't be
obliged to supplement the production that had
already been completed. But it is not the date
of the request that matters, it is the date of

the production that matters.

And what we're now being told is there are
allegedly highly relevant transcripts of a
telephone conversation that occurred months ago
when the last production that we received,
which we are told still is not complete,
oceurred approximately two weeks ago.

So, there's no privilege log entry.

There's no production of these documents. And
there is clearly a very significant discovery
violation if, in fact, such documents exist.

MR. SIMPSON: I'm not going to debate it
here, Mr. Scarola, but your assertions are not
accurate.

MR. SCAROLA: Allright. There also was a
subpoena duces teeum that was responded to
tomorrow -- I'm sorry, yesterday. Can you tell
us whether the documents that are now being
described are included in response to the
subpoena duces tecum on the flash drive that
you provided to us?

12 (Pages 221 to 224)

www.phippsreporting.com
(888) 811-3408

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010794
