with trying to “describe cancer mathematically.” Epstein preempts Nowak’s
explanation (which I’m not quite getting): “Think of cancer the same way as
you think of a terrorist group. The NSA has been able to thwart a great
number of terrorism acts by intercepting communication signals from one
terrorist to another. That same dynamic, a form of signal intelligence, of
finding a terrorist in Europe, can be used to intercept communication
between cancer sells. Cancer cells merely communicate in protean code
rather than electronic code. If you can decode what the signals are saying
you can jam those signal between terrorist calls—essentially wipe out their
cell phones. Likewise if you can decode biological signals you can jam them
too, that’s the holy grail.”

Then Richard Azel, a Nobel prize winner in physiology. Then Ron
Baron who, in his Baron Fund, has $26 billion under management. Then
Josh Harris the co-founder of Apollo Global Management ($164 billion
under management) and owner of the New Jersey Devils and the
Philadelphia 76ers.

Perhaps it’s just the ultimate feminist nightmare: Men (and a few
opportunistic women) continue to come to Epstein’s because—no matter
their public bows to modern manners—they simply don’t care that he
offends every aspect of reconstructed gender and political sensibilities. In
private, it remains a man’s world—a rich man’s world.

Or, it’s a guilty pleasure. People who know Jeffrey exchange
“Jeffrey” stories. “That’s Jeffrey,” says Mort Zuckerman, the real estate
billionaire and publisher of the Daily News (ever vitriolic in its coverage of
Epstein), with a twinkle in his eye and obvious enjoyment, to tales of
Epstein escapades. It is an outréness that Epstein seems delighted to
cultivate. In his Paris apartment, 10,000 square feet on the Avenue Foch, a
neighborhood otherwise occupied by foreign potentates, there is a stuffed
baby elephant in his living room—that is, the e/ephant in the room. (Epstein
says too it’s a reminder that elephants have 23 copies of tumor suppressor
genes and humans have only 1.) The single book on his bedside table is
Lolita (he is, beyond the joke, a great Nobokov fan).

Or, in a more sophisticated view, it’s a two tier understanding of the
world. There is a media version of the world, which most of us live in and
largely accept, and are certainly influenced by. And then there are those
people who live in the media itself and therefore know that it’s mostly bunk.
If the media says it, as likely some version of the opposite is true. I might
guess too that for many of his visitors there’s an order of identification: there
but for the grace of God. Any hyper-prominent person might, at any time,

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022753
