MARY JORDAN

Mary Catherine Jordan (born November 10, 1960) is a Pulitzer
Prize-winning American journalist for the Washington Post.
She is currently the editor of Washington Post Live, which
organizes political debates, conferences and news events

for the media company. She has written on U.S. politics,
the American education system and many other subjects.
With her husband, Post journalist Kevin Sullivan, Jordan
ran the newspaper’s bureaus in Tokyo, Mexico City and
London. Jordan has written from nearly 40 countries and
also been a frequent commentator on BBC Television.

Jordan, a daughter of Irish immigrants, was
born and raised in Cleveland, Ohio. She graduated from
Georgetown University in 1983 and earned a master’s
degree from Columbia University’s Graduate School of
Journalism in 1984. In 1989-90, Jordan was awarded
a Nieman Fellowship by Harvard University.

Jordan began her Post career as an intern
for the Style section, crisscrossed the country writing
about colleges and schools as the national education
reporter, and covered Virginia and national politics.

For a year at Trinity College in Dublin, Ireland, she
studied William Butler Yeats and other Irish poets. She was
given her first job in the newspaper business by legendary Irish
author and editor Tim Pat Coogan, who hired her to write a
column in the Irish Press. She enrolled in Japanese language
classes at Georgetown University before moving to Tokyo for
four years and studied Spanish on a post-graduate fellowship
at Stanford University before moving to Mexico for five years.

Currently, Jordan moderates many high-profile
forums for the Washington Post including the “The 40th
Anniversary of Watergate” in June 2012 that featured key
Watergate figures including including former White House
counsel John Dean, Washington Post editor Ben Bradlee,
and reporters Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein.

She hosted the 2010 Maryland gubernatorial

debate between Governor Martin O'Malley and former
Governor Robert Ehrlich, and moderated a rare sitdown
with Redskin owner Dan Snyder, Capital’s owner Ted
Leonsis, and other owners of Washington’s sports teams.
Among the many newsmakers she has interviewed:
Legendary singer and songwriter Paul McCartney, Colombian
novelist Gabriel Garcia Marquez, Nobel Prize winner Henry
Kissinger, former British Prime Minister Tony Blair and
Benjamin Arellano Felix, one of Mexico’s most notorious
drug kingpins. Jordan has written extensively about injustices
and discrimination against women around the world
including articles about the exceedingly low conviction
rate of rape in Britain and the unfortunate girls in India
denied schooling solely because they were not born male.
Jordan and Sullivan won the 2003 Pulitzer Prize for
International Reporting for their Post series on the “horrific
conditions in Mexico’s criminal justice system and how
they affect the daily lives of people,” as the Pulitzer Board
described. Along with four Post photographers, Jordan and
Sullivan were also finalists for the 2009 Pulitzer Prize for
International Reporting for their series of stories on the
difficulties women face around the world. The Pulitzer jury
called the series a “sensitive examination of how females in
the developing world are often oppressed from birth to death,
a reporting project marked by indelible portraits of women
and girls and enhanced by multimedia presentations.”
Jordan and Sullivan authored The Prison Angel:
Mother Antonia’s Journey from Beverly Hills to a Life of Service
in a Mexican Jail (The Penguin Press, 2005). In 2006, the
book won the Christopher Award, which “salutes media
that affirm the highest values of the human spirit.”
Jordan and Sullivan have also won numerous other awards
including the George Polk Award for their coverage of the 1997
Asian Financial Crisis and awards from the Overseas Press
Club of America and the Society of Professional Journalists.

JON KAMEN

@radical.media creates some of the world’s most innovative

content across all platforms of media. Originally renowned
for its commercial and advertising success, it has transformed
and grown to develop, produce, and distribute television,
feature films, music programming, live events, digital

content and design. As the founding Chairman and CEO

of @radical.media, Jon continues toexpand @radical’s
capabilities within this ever-evolving media landscape.

Beyond an Executive, Jon is a Producer and Executive
Producer of groundbreaking projects. Amongst @radical’s
major achievements, @radical.media has been recognized
for producing multiple award-winning projects including
the Academy Award and Independent Spirit Award for the
documentary The Fog of War; and a Grammy for the Concert
for George. This past year, @radical produced the Academy
Award and Emmy-nominated HBO documentary Paradise
Lost 3 and the Emmy-nominated A&E documentary following
Paul Simon’s Graceland journey, Under African Skies.

@radical is currently in production on a Ron Howard-
directed documentary on the Made In America festival in
Philadelphia. And it recently launched THNKR, a Premium
YouTube Channel, offering viewers extraordinary access to
the people, stories, and ideas that are transforming the world.

Beyond his professional duties and
prolific production credits, Jon is on the Board of Trustees
of the Rhode Island School of Design, and has recently
has been appointed to the Board of the Mr. Holland’s
Opus Foundation. Jon has continuously fostered @
radical’s work with numerous organizations and public
service initiatives, including RED, ONE, and Conservation
International. In 2012, he accepted Mayor Bloomberg’s
Made in New York Award at Gracie Mansion.

Jon strives to increase the reach, impact, and
legacies of the advertising and entertainment industries.
During his two terms as National Chairman of the AICP,
he founded the “Art and Technique of the American
Television Commercial,” which has been presented for
the past 20 years at the Museum of Modern Art. In 1994,

Jon received the Crystal Apple Award for his outstanding
contributions to the city’s production industry.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017546
