ECONOMICS: US PERSPECTIVES

JAN 01.27.2017

NATIONAL DEFENSE: IS ANOTHER SPENDING
BOOM ON THE HORIZON?

+ Joseph G. Carson, US Economist and Director—Global Economic Research, joe.carson@abglobal.com

President Trump has promised to increase defense spending—and
there’s support from key members of Congress. If a large multiyear
plan is approved, it would represent a sharp reversal from what has
been the weakest trend in defense spending in the past 50 years.

And the timing and scale would have important implications for the

outlook on growth and inflation.

National Defense—The Trump Plan
President Trump has promised to deliver
an ambitious program to rebuild the US
military. It would include modernizing

US nuclear weapons systems, investing
more in cybersecurity, enlarging the navy’s
fleet and increasing the number of fighter
aircraft for the air force. Trump’s plan also
includes additional military personnel—well
over 100,000, according to some
estimates.

The details of Trump’s first Pentagon
budget will form part of the overall budget
he’ll submit to Congress in late February or
early March. The actual funding request for
the current fiscal year (which ends
September 30) must be completed by April
30—that’s when the current legislation
funding the military budget is set to expire.

More important, Trump’s blueprint for the
Pentagon budget could set the baseline
for defense spending for at least the next
four years. It’s also worth noting that
Trump’s military expenditures could be at
the low end of what some in Congress are
proposing.

For example, Senator John McCain, who
chairs the Senate Armed Services
Committee, recently released a white
paper on defense spending, Restoring
American Power. McCain argues that the
US has underinvested in the military for
several years, and that it is now vital for
the US to substantially increase funding for
the Pentagon. His plan calls for a $640
billion defense budget for fiscal year 2018,
which is $58 billion above the current
budget baseline. Moreover, the McCain
defense plan urges an additional $430
billion in military spending over the next
five fiscal years.

Defense Spending Patterns Are Unlike
Other Federal Programs

History shows that defense spending
programs are unusual in that they’re neither
cyclical nor countercyclical. Most often they
are based on military and political strate-
gies as well as ongoing readiness to
respond to or engage in global encounters.

Based on historical gross domestic
product (GDP) data, there have been three
large defense-spending programs in the
past 50 years (Display 1). The first buildup

Display 1
Defense Spending Comes in Big Waves

Nominal Defense Spending

Reagan
Buildup

60 Vietnam Iraq
War

YoY % Change

64 72 81 90 98 OF 16

Through September 30, 2016
Four-year moving average
Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis and Haver Analytics

occurred in the mid- 1960s, during
President Lyndon Johnson’s term, and ran
for five years. That was tied to the military
engagement in Southeast Asia.

The second large defense-spending boom
occurred during the first four years of the
Reagan presidency. This buildup was part
of Reagan’s political and military strategy
to rebuild the military apparatus after what
he saw as years of neglect.

The third major increase started during the
first term of President George W. Bush.
This one was linked to events surrounding
9/11 and the following events in the
Middle East.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_033220
