Page 3 of 42
103 Minn. L. Rev. 844, *847

law enforcement substantially overlap for many categories of crime. Much of this enforcement redundancy, as considered in
detail below, has been a deliberate federal response to diverse problems of underenforcement in state criminal justice. The
point for now, however, is the functional equivalence of duplicative federal-state jurisdiction, nation-state jurisdiction, and
agency jurisdiction. All represent a common strategy to reduce underenforcement by empowering redundant enforcement
authorities: independent entities with equivalent institutional capacity and expertise share jurisdiction. If one neglects to
enforce, the other may. Functionally, each backstops, or provides oversight of, failures to enforce by the other.

A second model for minimizing unjustified failures to prosecute relies on private actors to create redundancy with public
prosecutors’ authority. Empowering private actors to file and litigate public law claims is familiar in many civil law contexts;
numerous federal statutes authorize private rights of action that enable private individuals or groups to supplement public
agencies’ law enforcement efforts. '*° Through much of the nineteenth century, this kind of duplicative public-private
enforcement authority was a familiar feature in the criminal justice systems of many states, which permitted private parties -
victims - to prosecute alleged criminal wrongdoing.

Redundant charging authority takes other forms as well. In large hierarchical agencies such as the U.S. Department of Justice,
internal administrative review of front-line prosecutors’ charging or declination decisions by higher-ups creates a version of
redundant enforcement authority; supervisors can make independent determinations and reverse front-line prosecutors. 1°
[*848] This kind of redundancy through administrative review now exists in English, Irish, and many European criminal
justice systems. !7
More ambitiously from a U.S. perspective - because it is rare here - judicial power to review prosecutorial charging decisions is
another means to create some degree of redundant charging authority between the executive and judicial branches. Although
criminal charging is a core function of the executive branch, state and federal courts have modest authority to review and bar
executive officials’ decisions to file criminal charges. It is only as a matter of policy that courts - with a few exceptions - are not
empowered to address underenforcement by reviewing the executive's noncharging decisions. (This power is somewhat broader
for courts in England and Wales as well as in the law of a few states.) !% This model of redundancy separates charging
authority - for courts as for Department of Justice supervisors, the power to order prosecutors to prosecute - from enforcement
authority, which includes the institutional capacity to file and litigate charges. Courts (with rare exceptions) have no
administrative capacity to litigate a prosecution; but they could provide some redundancy in charging authority. !?

In sum, charging redundancy can occur between equivalent agencies in separate governments, between public and private
actors, or between agencies or branches of the same government. Criminal justice systems in Europe and the common law
world have adopted or strengthened one or more of these mechanisms in recent decades. In the United States, choices among
these strategies have changed over time and between jurisdictions. Nearly all states that once authorized private prosecution
have long since prohibited it. Federal prosecutors are organized in a centralized hierarchical agency that makes administrative
review possible, but few state prosecutors are similarly organized. For these reasons and others, the primary means of
enforcement redundancy to combat underenforcement is overlapping federal- [*849] state authority made possible by the
distinctive U.S. model of federalism.

‘5 Examples of federal statutes authorizing private rights of action include the Clayton Act, 75 U.S.C. § 15 (2006) (granting a private right of
action for antitrust violations); Federal Tort Claims Act, 28 U.S.C. § 2680(h) (1994); Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 ULS.C. §
2000e-5(f) (1994); Americans with Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. § 12/33 (1994). For an overview, see Pamela H. Bucy, Private Justice, 76 S.
Cal. L. Rev. 1, 12-54 (2002).

16 See 18 U.S.C. § 3771(f) (2012) (mandating review of federal prosecutor decisions within the Justice Department upon victim's request).
7 See infra Part IT.A.1.
18 See infra Parts II.B.3-B.4.

19 Note that this conception of redundant authority intersects with, but is distinct from, constitutional separation of powers. In a standard
account (briefly put), separation of powers describes branches of government having distinct roles, authority, and competencies. In the main,
branches do not do the same things; they do different, rival, and complementary things. But if so empowered by the legislature, courts can
exercise some degree of charging authority, creating limited redundancy in charging authority between the executive and judicial branches.

DAVID SCHOEN

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_016512
