livered to the government by members of
the Black Panther Party,” he told me.
Even that didn’t work. The Chinese de-
nied the request, and Kaptchuk spent
much of the next decade studying in
Macau.

Today, it is hard to imagine Ted
Kaptchuk as a radical, let alone a fugitive.
He is an observant Jew who wears a yar-
mulke on top of a shaggy bowl haircut
that looks as if he'd copied the Beatles,
circa 1964, then let it grow. As a devotee
of Eastern thought, he bars shoes from
his house and speaks in a hushed, mea-
sured voice. David Carradine would have
played him beautifully.

Kaptchuk is the first prominent pro-
fessor at Harvard Medical School since
Erik Erikson with neither a medical de-
gree nor a doctorate, and it would be easy
to dismiss him as a signature representa-
tive of the unsubstantiated-alternative-
health-care movement. But he has pub-
lished scores of books, articles in highly
regarded peer-reviewed journals, letters,
and review notes—on subjects ranging
from placebo research to exorcism, from
cancer treatment to shaman rituals among
Navajo Indians. He has just finished a
study designed to answer a central ques-
tion in placebo research: Do the genes of
people who respond to placebos differ in
significant ways from those of people
who don't? (The data, compelling but so
far preliminary, suggest that the answer
is yes.)

“Ted Kaptchuk is the most knowl-
edgeable person in the world on all mat-
ters placebo,” Franklin Miller told me.
Miller is a senior faculty member in the
Department of Bioethics at the National
Institutes of Health. “He has done the
research, the scholarship, and the most
interesting and clinically relevant stud-
ies.” One day, I asked Kaptchuk how a
man who practiced acupuncture and dis-
pensed herbs, rather than earning a
Ph.D. in biology or statistics, had learned
to design complicated trials. He told me
that he spent years seeking the advice of
the most highly respected and rigorous
medical statisticians. “I basically appren-
ticed myself,” he said, “and they were
happy to help a quack who wanted to
deal with data.”

Kaptchuk is proud of being what he
calls “a card-carrying member of the
Harvard establishment.” It is a dis-
tinction that did not come easily, even

36 THE NEW YORKER, DECEMBER 12, 2011

though he has received millions of dol-
lars in funding for his projects from the
National Institutes of Health. “The goal
is to understand placebos so that they
may be used intelligently,” he said one
day. “But this is the area where I veer
from some of my colleagues. Because
what do I really want? Anything that
gets people away from the conveyor belts
that move from the pharmaceutical
houses to doctors and on to patients is
worth considering. Anything. We need
to stop pretending it’s all about molecu-
lar biology. Serious illnesses are affected
by aesthetics, by art, and by the moral
questions that are negotiated between
practitioners and patients. Chiropractors
never say that your pain is all in your
head. But orthopedists do it all the time.
What a fucking way to try and help
somebody heal. Do you know how evil
that is?”

That kind of deeply held conviction
touches on the fundamental questions
that challenge American medicine.
Kaptchuk wants to broaden the defi-
nition of healing, which is exactly what
enrages many scientists. In one recent
study of a major asthma drug, he and his
colleagues reported that, although place-
bos had no impact on the chemical
markers that indicate whether a patient
is responding to therapy, patients none-
theless reported feeling better. Kaptchuk
concluded that objective data should not
be the only criterion for doctors to con-
sider. “Even though objective physiolog-
ical measures are important,” he wrote in
the study, published earlier this year in
The New England Journal of Medicine,
“other outcomes such as emergency
room visits and quality-of-life metrics
may be more clinically relevant to pa-
tients and physicians.”

“My jaw dropped when I read this,”
David Gorski, a professor of medicine at
Wayne State University School of Med-
icine, wrote on the science blog Re-
spectful Insolence. “ ‘Other outcomes’
besides objective measures of disease se-
verity may be ‘more clinically relevant?”
That kind of assertion clashes with the
basic truths of the scientific method.
Kaptchuk counters that we are losing
sight of our goal—which is to make
people feel better. “This study demon-
strated that, without a change in objec-
tive data, you still get incredible subjec-
tive improvement,” he said. “So is a

doctor really supposed to say, Gee, the
patient is feeling good but I better ig-
nore that and go by the numbers?”

It was late in the afternoon, and we
were sitting in Kaptchuk’s garden in
Cambridge. He looked at me and threw
his hands into the air. “Is my approach
just hocus-pocus?” he said softly. “Isn’t
that what you are really asking? You want
to know the relationship between ratio-
nality and feeling and between science,
critical thinking, and the art of medicine.
And that boils down to one question: Do
you think this entire field is based on a
foundation of magical thinking, or do
you not?”

hree years ago, a week before

Thanksgiving, while I was sitting in
my office, my chest began to throb. It
was a diffuse pain, but pain nonetheless.
I am a middle-aged man with the usual
amount of stress (too much) and I han-
dle it in the usual way (denial). My cho-
lesterol and blood pressure are normal,
and I exercise regularly and try to eat sen-
sibly. Still, I have read many obituaries of
“healthy” men my age who ignored chest
pain. So, somewhat sheepishly, I called
my doctor and explained the situation,
and he told me to come right over.

He conducted a thorough examina-
tion, and then we talked. He told me I
was fine, that Thanksgiving is often a
tense time, and that I should relax. My
pain suddenly disappeared. I have writ-
ten frequently of my belief that magic
is for fairy tales and science is for hu-
mans. But something about that process
soothed me. Of course, it was a relief to
know that I wasn’t sick. But could words
really banish a pain I had struggled with
for hours?

After I got home, I realized that I had
been given a placebo. Not purposefully,
perhaps, but it had the same effect. My
doctor told me that I was fine, and that
made my pain go away. It also eased my
anxiety at least as effectively as if I had
swallowed a pill. My doctor takes an ex-
tremely science-based approach to his
work. That’s what makes him so good at
his job. But that afternoon we engaged in
exactly the type of ritual that, according
to Kaptchuk, will have to play a critical
role in the future of American health
care. And, at least in this instance, it
would have been hard to argue that it
didn’t work. ¢

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029931
