2D

would be in each place. We then asked them to select one destination
from two choices that they had rated exactly the same. Would you
choose Paris over Brazil? Finally, we asked them to imagine and rate
all the destinations again. Seconds after picking between two
destinations, people rated their selected destination higher than
before and rated the discarded choice lower than before.

The brain-imaging data revealed that these changes were happening
in the caudate nucleus, a cluster of nerve cells that is part of the
striatum. The caudate has been shown to process rewards and signal
their expectation. If we believe we are about to be given a paycheck
or eat a scrumptious chocolate cake, the caudate acts as an announcer
broadcasting to other parts of the brain, Be ready for something
good. After we receive the reward, the value is quickly updated. If
there is a bonus in the paycheck, this higher value will be reflected in
striatal activity. If the cake is disappointing, the decreased value will
be tracked so that next time our expectations will be lower.

In our experiment, after a decision was made between two
destinations, the caudate nucleus rapidly updated its signal. Before
choosing, it might signal thinking of something great while
imagining both Greece and Thailand. But after choosing Greece, it
now broadcast thinking of something remarkable! for Greece and
merely thinking of something good for Thailand. True, sometimes
we regret our decisions; our choices can turn out to be disappointing.
But on balance, when you make a decision — even if it is a
hypothetical choice — you will value it more and expect it to bring
you pleasure.

This affirmation of our decisions helps us derive heightened pleasure
from choices that might actually be neutral. Without this, our lives
might well be filled with second-guessing. Have we done the right
thing? Should we change our mind? We would find ourselves stuck,
overcome by indecision and unable to move forward.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030292
