av won num Fs WN EF

wo aon nub WN FE

NNNNNNPREFP PP RP PRP FP RP
WMPBWNF Ow ATH UY Bw NE OO

often than we usually say.

MR. SCAROLA: Yes, sir.

BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. In interviews on January 4 and January 5,
you claim to have completed the necessary work to
identify documents exonerating you within an hour
after learning of the accusations that were made,
correct?

A. 1 don't remember having said that. But
within a minute, I had clear knowledge that every
document in the world would exonerate me because I
knew for absolute certainty that every aspect of her
allegation was totally false. That's why I
challenged the other side to produce videos, to
produce photographs. I knew that there could be no
evidence inculpating me because I knew I was
innocent. So I knew that all of my records would
prove that.

Facts are facts. And I just wasn't in any
contact or any sexual contact with Virginia Roberts,
and I knew with absolute certainty that the facts
would completely exonerate me. And if your clients
had just called me, at the courtesy of simply
calling me, I would have been able to point them to
Professor Michael Porter of the Harvard Business

fo On HM fF WN

NNN NNN EH HM eB bb pp pp
ob WN FO © ON A MB WN HO

A. Where? Where? Can you point to that?
BY MR. SCAROLA:
Q. Well, I'm asking you, sir, based upon your
superb memory whether you remember having said —

MR. SCOTT: No, we're going to do --

BY MR. SCAROLA:
Q. - on Jan --

MR. SCOTT: He's going to take a moment to
review the transcript and -- and that's -- any
witness is entitled to do that. So why don't
we take a break, he'll review transcript and
we'll come back? We've been going an hour --

MR. SCAROLA: Because I haven't asked him
a question about the transcript.

MR. SCOTT: You've asked --

MR. SCAROLA: I'masking him a question
about his recollection.

MR. SCOTT: Based upon what he said in the
transcript.

MR. SCAROLA: No, I'm asking him whether
he has a recollection of having made public
statements that within an hour, he had gathered
the documents that proved his innocence,
exonerated him.

262

School. I would have been able to -- to alert them
to the Ashes. I would have been able to tell them
that | keep little black books which have all of my
travel information. Although they were in the
basement of Martha's Vineyard, | would have been
happy to go up and get them.

If they had just simply called me, I would
have been able to persuade them without any doubt
that these allegations were false. If they needed
any persuading because I believe, as | sit here
today, that they knew they were false at the time --
certainly should have known, but I believe knew they
were false at the time that they leveled them.

Q. My question related to your gathering
documents that you claim exonerated you --

A. That's right.

Q. --and your public statements were that
within an hour, you --

A. Can you --

Q. -- had gathered the documents --

MR. SCOTT: Listen to the question.
BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. -- you had gathered the documents that
exonerated you, correct?

MR. SCOTT: You can refer.

fo On nm fb WN FE

NNNNN NPP FP FP RP PP OF PB
UP wWNnNEF OM MAYH MH BwWNEH OO

BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. Do you remember having made those
statements?

A. I donot, but it's true. I was able to
gather documents literally within an hour. I was
able to call Tom Ashe. He was able to access his
daughter's journal notes that I had taught his
daughter's class. 1 was able to find out where my
other documents were.

My wife made some phone calls immediately.
We called the Canyon Ranch. We called and
determined the dates of when I was in Florida. We
called the Porters. We very, very, very quickly
were able to gather information that conclusively
would prove that she was lying about me having had
sex with me on the island, in the ranch,
particularly those two I was able to prove
conclusively.

And when a woman lies deliberately and
willfully about two instances where she in great
detail claims she had had sex, I think you can be
clear that you should discount any other -- any
other false allegations.

MR. SCOTT: We've been going for an hour.

Let's take a break for a few minutes. Then we

22 (Pages 261 to 264)

www.phippsreporting.com
(888) 811-3408

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010804
