is not my intention. Let’s face it, though: There are tons of things in your home and life that you don’t
use, need, or even particularly want. They just came into your life as impulsive flotsam and jetsam and
never found a good exit. Whether you’re aware of it or not, this clutter creates indecision and
distractions, consuming attention and making unfettered happiness a real chore. It is impossible to realize
how distracting all the crap is—whether porcelain dolls, sports cars, or ragged T-shirts—until you get rid
of it.

Prior to my 15-month trip, I was stressed about how to fit all of my belongings into a 14x 10-foot
rental storage space. Then I realized a few things: I would never reread the business magazines I'd saved,
I wore the same five shirts and four pairs of pants 90% of the time, it was about time for new furniture,
and I never used the outdoor grill or lawn furniture.

Even getting rid of things I never used proved to be like a capitalist short-circuit. It was hard to toss
things I had once thought were valuable enough to spend money on. The first ten minutes of sorting
through clothing was like choosing which child of mine should live or die. I hadn’t exercised my
throwing-out muscles in some time. It was a struggle to put nice Christmas clothing ['d never worn into
the “go” pile and just as hard to separate myself from worn and ragged clothing I had for sentimental
reasons. Once I’d passed through the first few tough decisions, though, the momentum had been built and
it was a breeze. I donated all of the seldom-worn clothing to Goodwill. The furniture took less than 10
hours to offload using Craigslist, and though I was paid less than 50% of the retail prices for some and
nothing for others, who cared? I’d used and abused them for five years and would get a new set when I
landed back in the U.S. I gave the grill and lawn furniture to my friend, who lit up like a kid at
Christmas. I had made his month. It felt wonderful and I had an extra $300 in pocket change to cover at
least a few weeks of rent abroad.

I created 40% more space in my apartment and hadn’t even grazed the surface. It wasn’t the extra
physical space that I felt most. It was the extra mental space. It was as if I had 20 mental applications
running simultaneously before, and now I had just one or two. My thinking was clearer and I was much,
much happier.

I asked every vagabond interviewee in this book what their one recommendation would be for first-
time extended travelers. The answer was unanimous: Take less with you.

The overpacking impulse is hard to resist. The solution is to set what I call a “settling fund.” Rather
than pack for all contingencies, I bring the absolute minimum and allocate $100—300 for purchasing
things after I arrive and as I travel. I no longer take toiletries or more than a week’s worth of clothing.
It’s a blast. Finding shaving cream or a dress shirt overseas can produce an adventure in and of itself.

Pack as if you were coming back in one week. Here are the bare essentials, listed in order of
importance:

1. One week of clothing appropriate to the season, including one semiformal shirt and pair of pants or
skirt for customs. Think T-shirts, one pair of shorts, and a multipurpose pair of jeans.

2. Backup photocopies or scanned copies of all important documents: health insurance, passport/visa,
credit cards, debit cards, etc.

3. Debit cards, credit cards, and $200 worth of small bills in local currency (traveler’s checks are not
accepted in most places and are a hassle)

4. Small cable bike lock for securing luggage while in transit or in hostels; a small padlock for
lockers if needed

5. Electronic dictionaries for target languages (book versions are too slow to be of use in
conversation) and small grammar guides or texts

6. One broad-strokes travel guide

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013964
