Case 5:16-cv-00797-DMG-KS Document1 Filed 04/26/16 Page5of6 Page ID#:5

MATERIAL WITNESSES

18. Tiffany Doe, a former trusted employee of the Defendant, Jeffrey E. Epstein, has agreed to
provide sworn testimony in this civil case and any other future civil or criminal proceedings, fully
verifying the authenticity of the claims of the Plaintiff, Katie Johnson. Witness Tiffany Doe was
employed by the Defendant, Jeffrey E. Epstein, for more than 10 years as a party planner for his
underage sex parties. Despite being subject to constant terroristic threats by Defendants Epstein
and Trump to never reveal the details of these underage sex parties at which scores of teenagers,
and pre-teen girls were used as sex slaves by Defendant Epstein and Defendant Trump, witness
Tiffany Doe refuses to be silent any longer. She has agreed to fully reveal the extent of the sexual
perversion and physical cruelty that she personally witnessed at these parties by Defendants Epstein
and Trump.

19. Material witness Tiffany Doe fully confirms all of Plaintiff Katie Johnson's allegations of
physical and sexual abuse by Defendants Donald J. Trump and Jeffrey E. Epstein. Tiffany Doe was
physically present at each of the four occasions of sexual abuse by Defendant Trump upon the
person of Plaintiff Johnson, as it was her job to witness all of the sexual escapades of Defendant
Epstein's guests at these underage sex parties and later reveal all of the sordid details directly to
Defendant Epstein. Defendant Epstein also demanded that Tiffany Doe tell him personally
everything she had overheard at these parties explaining to her that knowledge was king in the
financial world. As a result of these underage sex parties, Defendant Epstein was able to accumulat
inside business knowledge that he otherwise would never have been privy to in order to amass his
huge personal fortune.

20. Material witness Tiffany Doe will testify that she was also present or had direct knowledge
of each of the three instances on which Defendant Jeffrey E. Epstein physically and sexually abused
the Plaintiff, Katie Johnson. Tiffany Doe will testify to the fact that the Plaintiff, Katie Johnson,
was extremely fortunate to have survived all of the physical and sexual horrors inflicted upon her

by Defendants Epstein and Trump.

CV-126 (09/09) PLEADING PAGE FOR A COMPLAINT

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029264
