up Seperate trusts, , 2) I am reachable this afternoon in europe. oncell. 3. on another note . -our
financial agreement ended months ago . seperate from the art partnership (which i was told yesterday to
my amazement is still not funded) . 1am obligated to complete ? the time i have dedicated since oct/
dec has been spent mainly as your friend. tom, brad though i am fully cognizant of my responsiblities. I
will try to help find people. I am not good at human resources. howevr If I don;t think they are good
enough for you. I will continue to say so _, and you obviously decide. but I will reiterrate even in the face
of your nobody is good enough argument. keeping foremost in my mind that you and I have only beeen
shown a very tiny handful of people. 4. I find the friction over fees , counterproductive. in an attempt to
avoid it I had suggested a multi year deal early on. you rejected it. I then suggested, and urged you to
have an option at a fixed fee , you also rejected that .you wanted the fee payment only at the end I argued
but ,conceded. I suggested a structure that tom didn't like. you rejected it. 5 I suggest you make a fair
proposal.- that i can either accept or reject. some payment up front this time is a requirement. I am willing
to modify any outstanding obligations. - there are creative ways to assure you of your desired
characterization of those payments. 6 you should open accts at Deutsh . and goldman. I am told that
eilleen has set up over one hundred bank acccts for you???!!._ few relevant 7 you should immediatly
demand a list of all her acct authorites , exec poistions . director etc. bank authorizsations. etc. _ talk
later or over the weekend if you like

Date: Tue, Jan 5, 2016 at 9:32 PM
Subject:
To: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com>
Mark was here this morning , the proposed transactions are extremely complex . and would take a great
deal of detailed time. I do not know how, and if ,jto move forward - our last transaction. a transaction
which you saved 600 million in tax. even if 20 years away ,( ihope longer) even discounted is a 300
million savings . for that you ignored our agreements , verbal written and emailed -and decided that it
was only worth 8 million dollars. ( assuming phaidon srichard happens. 24 m savings not including
artspace and debt benefits certain to come later) FYI the phaidon transaction cannot happen as
currently comtemplated IT will not work . NOT

When we had our meeting in your home in Bedford. You asked me for my help. I told you multiple
times that i thought it was a very bad idea, in that I preferred to have no financial interactions. I dont
have many friends and didnt want money in any way to interfere with our unique relationship. Reminder ,
For five years you had the kind but goofy Eileen Alexandersson as the sole manager of your accounting ,
legal, investments. reporting, trusts etc. When I first told you in no uncertain terms that I firmly believed
she was incompetent you admonished me for  speaking out of both sides of my mouth. With regard
Brad Wechsler , there has never been a  both sides. . I have consistantly maintained since day one that
he was highly unsuited for the job. When you initially asked me to help convince him to take the role ,
promising him a position to manage mirage investments I sent you a note saying that instead of hiring him
you should pay up and get first class people. I have reiterated the same message for over a year now. .
Brad , not me ,was tasked with hiring new people , according to his org chart.(nauseating ) and as you
wanted him to take ownership of the staff,he conducted many interviews alone. . you may recall that as late
as may, you told him in my presence that though six months had passed he had not hired anyone. since
then I have rectified errors in sales tax, use tax, income tax, fbar reporting, 1031 reporting, 8 million of
deductions missed errors of millions on the returns. ,( april ) Oversight on new grats- first at 22 and then
at 19 that were done without my consultation and needed to be resolved soley as a result of my last
minute intervention. . 600 million in after tax savings was just accomplished. though you left the 30
million outstanding that I had said should only be done if that was my additional fee. not used for non
biz purposes and not art.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023261
