distributions such Pariner would otherwise be entitled fo. If KUE is required to withhold on amounts in
excess of cash distributions, Partners shall be required to contribute to KUE cash in an amount by which
such required withholding exceeds any such distributions.

Gain on Sale. A Limited Partner that is a non-U.S. Person will be subject to U.S. federal income tax upon
the sale or exchange of its Common LP Units to the extent that such Limited Partner recognizes gain
Upon such sale or exchange and such gain is effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business.

U.S. Real Property Holding Corporation. lf a direct U.S. subsidiary of KUE is or were to become a
United States Real Property Holding Corporation, or USRPHC (as defined below), certain disposition
of Common LP Units by a Limited Partner that is a non-U.S. Person would result in such Limited Partner
being subject to U.S. federal income tax in respect of the portion of the gain recognized on such
disposition that is attributable to such subsidiary. in addition, if a direct U.S. subsidiary of KUE is or were
to become a USRPHC, certain dispositions of such subsidiary by KUE would result in Limited Partners
who are non-U.S. Persons being subject to U.S. federal income tax in respect of their allocable share of
the gain recognized by KUE on such disposition. Generally, a corporation is a USRPHC if the fair market
value of its U.S. real property interests equals or exceeds 50% of the sum of the fair market value of its
worldwide real property interests and its other assets used or held for use in a trade or business. KUE
believes that each of its direct U.S. subsidiaries is not currently a USRPHC for U.S. federal income tax
purposes. However, no assurances can be given in this regard. Furthermore, it is possible that in the
future one of KUE’s subsidiaries may become a USRPHC if, for example, the value of the U.S. real estate
holdings of such subsidiary increases sufficiently. Limited Partners that are non-U.S. Parsons are urged
to consult their tax advisors regarding the potential application of the USRPHC rules to their investment in
KUE.

Administrative Matters

Backup Withholding. For each calendar year, KUE will report to its U.S. Partners and to the Internal
Revenue Service the amount of distributions that it pays, and the amount of tax (if any) that it withholds
on these distributions. Under the backup withholding rules, a U.S. Limited Partner may be subject to
backup withholding tax with respect to distributions uniess a Limited Partner: (i) is a corporation or comes
within another exempt category and demonstrates this fact when required or (ii} provides a taxpayer
identification number, certifies as to no loss of exemption from backup withholding tax and otherwise
complies with the applicable requirements of the backup withholding tax rules. Exempt Limited Partners
who are U.S. Persons should indicate their exempt status on a properly completed IRS Form W-8BEN.
Backup withholding is not an additional tax, the amount of any backup withholding from a payment to a
Limited Partner will be allowed as a credit against such Limited Partner's U.S. federal income tax liability.

Nominee Reporting. Persons who hold an interest in KUE as a nominee for another Person are required
to furnish to KUE:
(a) the name, address, and taxpayer identification number of the beneficial owner and the
nominee,
(b) whether the beneficial owner is:

(4} a person thatis nota U.S. Person,

(2) a foreign government, an international organization, or any wholly-owned agency
or instrumentality of either of the foregcing, or

(3) a tax-exempt entity;

(c) the amount and description of the Limited Partner Units held, acquired, or transferred for
the beneficial owner, and

144

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024577
