162 Teaching Minds

chemistry that doctors need to know, they study the chemistry re-
search that their professors are doing. When they want to learn busi-
ness, they learn economics. When they want to learn how to write,
they learn about literature. All of this happens because of the nature of
the research universities’ domination of our education system.

In order to fix our high schools, we need to get rid of departments
based on rather arbitrarily defined academic subjects.. We should or-
ganize universities around the kinds of work people do, where work
means the kinds of thinking that they engage in, not the machines
that they play with. Anyway that’s my suggestion.

AN IMAGINED FIRST YEAR IN COLLEGE

We all know that what I propose will never happen. University faculty
would stop such a proposal at every turn. So, in the name of real-
ity, I want to make a suggestion that university faculty possibly could
adopt.

Simply divide the 4 years that make up college into two parts.
Dedicate the first 2 years to the teaching of the 12 processes and the
last 2 to the study of the subjects that the faculty so dearly love. Intro-
duction to X, which now dominates the first 2 years of college for most
students, would be abandoned. The faculty hate teaching it anyway
and the students hate taking it.

How would this work? Let’s first consider the set of processes
grouped under conceptual processes.

Conceptual Processes

Prediction is an area of life that is worth getting good at doing.
Who, in the various faculties, organize their daily lives around predic-
tions? Economists make predictions. It is what they do all the time.
Medical doctors make predictions. Physicists make predictions. Po-
litical scientists make predictions. Let’s imagine that students were
taught by a team of people from these four areas who were the exactly
those people who specialized in making predictions all the time in
their careers. And, let’s suppose that they created a year-long course
in how to make predictions based on known evidence, past cases, and

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023908
