6.6 Analysis and Synthesis Processes in CogPrime 115

Where analysis is concerned:

e PLN inference, acting on declarative knowledge, is used for estimating the probability of
the implication in the cognitive schematic, given fixed C, P and G. Episodic knowledge
is also used in this regard, via enabling estimation of the probability via simple similarity
matching against past experience. Simulation is also used: multiple simulations may be run,
and statistics may be captured therefrom.

— Example: To estimate the degree to which asking Bob for food (the procedure P is “asking
for food”, the context C is “being with Bob”) will achieve the goal G of getting food, the
virtual dog may study its memory to see what happened on previous occasions where it
or other dogs asked Bob for food or other things, and then integrate the evidence from
these occasions.

e Procedural knowledge, mapped into declarative knowledge and then acted on by PLN in-
ference, can be useful for estimating the probability of the implication C A P > G, in cases
where the probability of C A P, — G is known for some P, related to P.

— Example: knowledge of the internal similarity between the procedure of asking for food
and the procedure of asking for toys, allows the virtual dog to reason that if asking Bob
for toys has been successful, maybe asking Bob for food will be successful too.

e Inference, acting on declarative or sensory knowledge, can be useful for estimating the
probability of the implication C A P > G, in cases where the probability of C; A P > G is
known for some C} related to C.

— Example: if Bob and Jim have a lot of features in common, and Bob often responds
positively when asked for food, then maybe Jim will too.

e Inference can be used similarly for estimating the probability of the implication CA P > G,
in cases where the probability of C A P > G, is known for some G, related to G. Concept
creation can be useful indirectly in calculating these probability estimates, via providing
new concepts that can be used to make useful inference trails more compact and hence
easier to construct.

— Example: The dog may reason that because Jack likes to play, and Jack and Jill are both
children, maybe Jill likes to play too. It can carry out this reasoning only if its concept
creation process has invented the concept of “child” via analysis of observed data.

In these examples we have focused on cases where two terms in the cognitive schematic are
fixed and the third must be filled in; but just as often, the situation is that only one of the
terms is fixed. For instance, if we fix G, sometimes the best approach will be to collectively
learn C' and P. This requires either a procedure learning method that works interactively with a
declarative-knowledge-focused concept learning or reasoning method; or a declarative learning
method that works interactively with a procedure learning method. That is, it requires the sort
of cognitive synergy built into the CogPrime design.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013031
