42 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

That same July, Snowden had other things on his mind, includ-
ing an attempt to advance himself. Although his position at Dell as
a system administrator was a well-compensated one, especially for
a twenty-nine-year-old with no formal education, it carried little
prestige. He sat from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. in a windowless room
watching a bank of monitors in the so-called tunnel. Many of those
who worked with him were, as he described them, “eighteen year old
soldiers.” Presumably, they had little interest in discussing with him
the weightier issues of the world. Working as an outside contractor
was also a dead-end job that hardly matched the vision he had of
himself in his Internet postings. In real life, in a cubicle in the NSA,
he was decidedly not the Wolfking Awesomefox heroic image he had
of himself in his dream vision.

Snowden now decided to apply for a position in the NSA itself.
He apparently believed that if he scored high enough on its entrance
exam, the NSA would invite him to join it as a Senior Executive
Service officer, or SES, which was the civilian equivalent in rank and
pay to a flag officer in the U.S. armed forces. “I’m still amazed that

© a twenty-eight-year-old thought he could get an SES position,” a ©
civilian contractor working for the NSA during the same period told
me, “Snowden had a very overinflated view of his self-worth.” To
enhance his chances of getting the SES job, Snowden in the summer
of 2022 illicitly hacked into the NSA’s administrative files and stole
the answers to the NSA exam. As the NSA’s subsequent postmortem
would determine, it was the first known document that Snowden
took without authorization at the NSA.

It was not the first time, however, that he had used his hacking
skills to attempt to advance himself. At the CIA in 2009, as he later
said in Moscow, he had added text to his annual CIA evaluation in
what he termed “a non-malicious way” to prove a point. His CIA
superior took a much darker view of that incident when the hack
was detected, calling for an investigation. It was the threat of that
investigation that, it will be recalled, in effect ended Snowden’s CIA
career. At the NSA, his intrusion was not detected for almost a year.
“He stole the [NSA] test with the answers, and he took the test and
he aced it,” the former NSA director Michael McConnell recounted

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 42 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019530
