ERISA Plan for purposes of ERISA. In particular, the General Partner will use reasonable best
efforts to either (i) limit investment in the Fund by “benefit plan investors” to a level that would
not be considered “significant” under ERISA, or (ii) operate the Fund as a VCOC, or (iii) operate
the Fund in compliance with any other then-available exception to the general rule of plan asset
treatment. The General Partner has the authority to require a Limited Partner to withdraw from
the Fund (in whole or in part) where the General Partner determines that such withdrawal is
necessary to avoid having the Fund’s assets deemed to be “plan assets” subject to ERISA or
Section 4975 of the Code. Accordingly, the Fund is not expected to be deemed to be holding
“plan assets” subject to ERISA at any time.

Reporting

Benefit plan investors may be required to report certain compensation paid by the Fund (or by
third parties) to the Fund’s service providers as “reportable indirect compensation” on Schedule
C to the Form 5500 Annual Return (the “Form 5500”). To the extent any compensation
arrangements described herein constitute reportable indirect compensation, any such
descriptions are intended to satisfy the disclosure requirements for the alternative reporting
option for “eligible indirect compensation,” as defined for purposes of Schedule C to the Form
5500.

Additional Information

ERISA and its accompanying regulations are complex and, to a great extent, have not yet been
interpreted by the courts or the administrative agencies. This discussion does not purport to
constitute a thorough analysis of ERISA. Each prospective investor subject to ERISA should
consult with its own legal counsel concerning the implications under ERISA of an investment in
the Fund, and to confirm that such an investment will not constitute or result in a non-exempt
prohibited transaction or any other violation of an applicable requirement under ERISA.

“Governmental plans” and certain “church plans”, while not subject to the fiduciary
responsibility and prohibited transaction provisions of ERISA, may nevertheless be subject to
state or other federal laws that are substantially similar to the foregoing provisions of ERISA.
Decision-makers for any such plans should consult with their counsel before making an
investment in the Fund.

84 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024095
