‘We were warned by Miss Maxwell never to disturb him there. It was absolutely forbidden,’ they say.
Between 1999 and 2004, Epstein would visit at least once a month and Ghislaine was invariably with him.

Miles says: ‘In our final meeting, he told me I had always been his conscience. I’m certainly battling with

my conscience now.’
Riddle of phone numbers for ‘friends’ he’d never met

Revealing an extraordinary network of power and influence, extending into the fields of politics, finance

and showbusiness, Jeffrey Epstein’s ‘little black book’ showed just how important a man he had become.

Yet when The Mail on Sunday contacted the people listed in the document, which was kept online, many

said they had never met or even spoken to the disgraced financier.

And they were appalled to discover he had their contact details, often including home and mobile

telephone numbers.

Lord Palumbo, the former Arts Council chairman and godfather to the Duke of York’s eldest daughter
Beatrice, said: ‘I have never, never, met him. I am shocked I am in there. I am affronted. I don’t know him
at all.’

Never heard of him: Both Toby Young (left) and Sir Richard Branson, were surprised to

find themselves listed in a contacts books owned by Jeffrey Epstein

Dame Gail Ronson, a charity fundraiser and wife of the multi-millionaire British developer Gerald
Ronson, said: ‘I’ve never, ever, met him. I swear, you’ve completely gobsmacked me. It’s really distressing,
horrible.

‘T lead a very private life so to find out you’re on this list, it’s very unsavoury.’
Her shock was echoed by the celebrity milliner Philip Treacy.
‘This sounds crazy, I’m amazed,’ he said.

‘Tm a hatmaker, I’ve never met Jeffrey Epstein and never had any reason to. I make hats. Does he look

like the kind of person who would wear a hat? Bizarre.’

The ‘book’ also had numbers for the JCB tycoon Sir Anthony Bamford, but a spokesman insisted: “There

doesn’t appear to be any connection. Sir Anthony doesn’t know Jeffrey Epstein.’

The journalist Toby Young, said: ‘I’ve never been within 100 yards of him and we move in completely

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_022974
