20

of the US federal government. Because most PRC attempts to influence American
opinion and practices occur at the local level, and because local media, universities,
companies, and advocacy agencies are often involved in these efforts, knowingly and
unknowingly, local leaders, just as much as national leaders, need an understanding

of PRC goals and strategies.

“We Have Friends All Over the World”

China pursues sister city relationships under an organization called the Chinese
People’s Association for Friendship with Foreign Countries, which is part of China’s
united front bureaucratic structure (See Appendix: Chinese Influence Operations
Bureaucracy) that aims to strengthen the rule of the Chinese Communist Party and
increase China’s influence overseas. With its long-standing Maoist slogan, “We Have
Friends All Over the World,” the association had its heyday in the 1950s, when China
was isolated and the group became a bridge between China and overseas supporters.

It was marginalized in the 1980s, as China opened to the West and established
diplomatic relations with hundreds of countries. However, under the administration of
Communist Party leader Xi Jinping, the association has been revitalized as China seeks
to groom local business, political, and media leaders in countries around the world. Its
new standing is exemplified by the splendor of its headquarters located in the elegant

old Italian Embassy compound near Tiananmen Square.

The way the association and other Chinese organizations cultivate relationships

with local officials follows a general pattern. First, in the United States, China
demands that sister city relationships and state-to-province sister relations be carried
out under “principles” on which Sino-US relations were established in the 1970s

(as interpreted by the Chinese side). This means that China’s representatives will
likely protest should local officials seek to maintain ties with representatives of Taiwan
or with other individuals, such as the Dalai Lama, whom China regards as hostile
forces. Second, it is important to understand why China seeks a relationship with
localities, especially during times of tension with the federal government: China

seeks to build alternative networks of interaction and support, while using these new
relationships to help gain new traction back in Washington. Local American expertise,
information, and opinion are also of more than passing political interest to Beijing,
even if on paper an exchange relationship is only to “enhance people’s friendship,
further international cooperation, safeguard world peace and promote common

development,”' for Beijing understands clearly that local leaders today become the

State and Local Governments

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020479
