for what , its not a publice co. ? townhouse construciton , household operations, boat, plane, taxes, we
went through this with the cash flow. you and 1 know approx how much each will cost. its a week job not
a fulll time one- ada has no lien copies. none. ?! impossible not to know , ask, quesiton? two senior
accountants CPAs. not the 75k girl that they hired, . IT professional backed by a firm. high quality,can
we tap apollo resources? new lawyer , heather level . new receptionist, and bookeeper. get rid of ava.
next could be new office ,new furniture , , the whole place reeks of cheap. ITIS MAY<_ I have not
been asked to interview one person to date. notone. having cpas in there tomrrow woudl go a long
way. idont understand the time line, coo first. ? in by july?? cpas in by sept. tax return due oct 15. ?

Date: Fri, May 1, 2015 at 2:36 PM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella

I know that both you and I heard brads’. 1m out of here if i dont get a coo. . sorry,. 1 know that neither of
us have stood in the way of his finding/ gettting one.. JPM account DB account GS account, ??? its
MAY 1. nothing in the first quarter and these are only papers that need signing.

I suggest your thinking on my role and compensation for my work might benefit , from a mental shift -
think mark and josh, without the mutual resentment ( HAHA) only in terms of sharing ,thanks, Iam and
have been your financial partner i.. rectifying circumstances that appear in hind sight unexplainable. I
wish you woudl have asked me earllier to review your things , but i understand. I do know that soley asa
result of my actions your personal bottom line has increased dramatically, if you had thought of me as
your partner in this endeavor , instead of an employee, i think your reaction to sharing t benefits would be
different.

If you recall, you wanted me to be paid , unlike others at the END of my work. we discussed this ad
nauseum, and agreed OCT 15, last year was the end. You had wanted more comfort initially on the art
partnership so that date was delayed. It has now been six monhts since then, your concept of aftercare .
. for free. was already unique , in your words this has to have an end.( weaned ) if the actions of josh
and mark led to one hundred million dollars , what would be their share. Im not sure why it is different
in your mind. but i respect the fact that it is, Is it because their work seems harder. it cannot be simply
because they devote more time to you .or it appears to involve more effort. I am happy to continue to
play a partnership role. as I have been in many areas of your life. . I am also happy to move on and have
no more of these emails. I find them as tedious as you do . if you prefer a partnership structure , ok with
me, I tried to minimize the amount of money i would recieve by making it a flat fee . as i wanted you to
feel good and have no second thoguths somehow if the payment comes from a partnership structure you
seem relaxed as opposed to writing a check, I focus on trust and friendship first, and the fact that you
don't include josh and mark in that category, gives me great pause . I proposed 33 percent of money
made for you. . in the past you agreed that amount. it will be huge, but ok with me, I can talk today at
945 as you suggested. or if you woudl rather over the weekend ok

Date: Fri, May 1, 2015 at 7:08 PM
Subject: Fwd: Picasso agreement - question

To: Melanie Spinella = ss

silly

Date: Fri, May 1, 2015 at 12:27 PM
Subject: Picasso agreement - question

To: Brad Wechsler <>, Jeffrey Epstein (jeevacation@gmail.com)

<jeevacation@gmail.com>

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023275
