CHAPTER 3: FOUNDATIONS

Historically, foundations and science itself emerge at the end of centuries of
practical application. A logical place for foundations in textbooks is the beginning. So
it was with Halliday and Resnick on physics, which began with Newton’s kinetics
(motion in time and space) and then this three laws. Only in the last chapter did the
authors remind us that Einstein later put two of these three into question, and even
the kinetics. Halliday and Resnick reasoned, correctly | think, that we sometimes
learn more efficiently by learning something slightly wrong first and fixing it later. |
will do that, in a sense, by reasoning first through free growth theory as if the Y=C +
] equation were true, and then again with the two corrections. The sometimes

counterintuitive logic of teaching and learning, including that, is “heuristics”.

Building on explicit axioms was common in economics throughout the classical
period running from Petty in the 17 century through Mill in the 19th. Then came
the major shift in focus, beginning in 1871, called the marginalist revolution. What
mattered was less our goals, and more the market mechanisms that aligned supply,
demand and price. The meeting point was the margin. Axioms about goals
disappeared, including the usual one of prioritizing survival and reproduction, and
axioms kept were usually left implicit. The implicit ones, essential to marginalism in
my view, included convergent tastes and predictions. I will make those two and

others explicit, and eventually add back the goals.

This book on the whole is about second-guessing what is taught. This chapter is
different. The nearest thing to a surprise in itis the idea that economics needs
explicit foundations in the sense of axioms and basic definitions and equations. All
the ones | choose are well accepted. Why | pick which should seem obvious in
hindsight. But some mini-surprises will accumulate. Why do I take such pains to
prove every feature of what everyone accepts already? Why all the boilerplate and
bulletproofing? I need them because I will later try to shoot down other beliefs

everyone accepts. We must know what is sound to find what is not.

Chapter 3: Foundations 1/11/16 1

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010972
