The Generai Partner will provide such periodic reports if engaged in any business other than acting as
General Partner of KUE or if it owns any material assets other than an interest in KUE.

14.24. Indemnification

KUE will indemnify, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the General Partner, and its
members, officers, directors, and employees, and at the General Partner's discretion, any other person
providing services to KUE, its subsidiaries or joint ventures, (Indemnified Persons) from and against loss
because of any action performed by them on behalf of KUE or of the failure to take any action on behalf of
KUE, unless such loss resulted from the indemnified Person acting in bad faith or the willful misconduct,
fraud or gross negligence of such Indemnified Person, or a material breach of the Limited Partnership
Agreement by such Indemnified Person. Indemnified persons may receive advances or be reimbursed
for their expenses.

14,25. Amendment of the Limited Partnership Agreement

Generally, the Limited Partnership Agreement may be amended with the consent of the General Partner.
Subject to the exceptions specified in the Limited Partnership Agreement, amendments adversely
affecting the Common LP Units may not be effected without a majority of the votes represented by Units
held by investors.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the General Partner, acting reasonably and in good faith, may amend the
Limited Partnership Agreement without the consent of any Limited Partner (a) to correct any typographical
or similar ministerial errors; (b) to delete or add any provision required to be so deleted or added by
applicable law or any government official having jurisdiction over KUE; (c) to cure any mistake or
ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be inconsistent with any other
provision herein; (d) to fake such actions as may be necessary (if any} to ensure that KUE will be treated
as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes; (e) to reflect the admission of any additional
Limited Partner and otherwise to reflect such admission or an additional investment by a Limited Partner
on the books and records of KUE pursuant to the General Partner’s power of attorney; (f) to take such
actions as may be necessary (if any) to ensure that neither of KUE or the General Partner (or any
subsidiary of the foregoing) will be subject to regulation under ERISA or the Investment Company Act; (g)
to take such actions as may be necessary (if any) to ensure that the General Partner (or any Subsidiary}
will not be subject to the Investment Advisers Act; (h) to reflect any increase in the number of Profits
Participation LP Units approved by the Independent Commitiee and related changes in allocation and
distribution provision; (i) to make changes negotiated with Limited Partners admitted in any subsequent
closing of the offering, so long as such changes do not, in the good faith determination of the General
Partner and with the approval of the Independent Committee, adversely affect the rights, obligations and
economic interests of the existing Limited Partners: and (j) to the extent necessary to give effect to
partnership interests issued to additional Limited Partners after the Offering Period. The General Partner
shall provide prompt written notice of any such amendments to the Limited Partners.

14.26. Confidentiality

Each Investor is subject to an obligation to keep KUE related information confidential, subject to limited
exceptions. KUE or the General Partner will be entitled to enforce such obligations and take such actions
to maintain the confidentiality of KUE related information, including without limitation withholding any
periodic or financial reports (with the approval of the Independent Committee} from an Investor that has
violated its confidentiality obligations.

128

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024561
