wo MT A mM FF WN FH

RMN NNN PBR BP BP RP RP POP Oe oe
uk WD eH OO ON AO FF WKF OO

A. Lhave ~-

Q. -- during the course of the deposition, I
am permitted to examine if.

A. Ihave lawyer-client privileged
information in here, so | can't give it to you. I
can give it to you ina redacted form. [have a
quote from David Boies in here, which I'm sure --

MR. SCOTT: Don't ~

A. - nobody is going to want to sce --

MR. SCOTT: We'll make a copy and give it

to you.

MR. SCAROLA: Thank you. Would you hand
it to your counsel, please?

MR. SCOTT: On that note, hold on to that.

THE WITNESS: But I need that back.

MR. SCOTT: Of course. Don't worry.

MR. SIMPSON: Hold on to it.

MR. SCOTT: That's why 1 gave it to him
because I'd lose it.

BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. Before January 21, 2015, what information
did you have regarding what Bradley Edwards and Paul
Cassell had gathered in the course of investigating
the accuracy of Virginia Roberts' accusations
against you?

oO Omri nm FP WN

NM NN NN FP PP BP HP HF He
m FW nN FP Oo Oo OT Di eB WN FO

Cassell had done in the course of their
investigation of the credibility of the accusations
made by Virginia Roberts against you?

A. Well, first and foremost, the most
important piece of information I had was my firm and
complete knowledge and memory that I had never had
any sexual contact with Virginia Roberts ever under
any circumstances or any other underage girls. So I
knew --

Q. The question I'm asking, sir --

A. -~ this information --

Q. - focuses on what knowledge you had
regarding what Bradley Edwards and Paul Cassell did
in the course of their investigation of the
credibility of the accusations against you made by
Virginia Roberts?

A. That was the first and most important bit
of information; namely, that | couldn't have done it
and didn't do it. So L knew for sure that they
could not have conducted any kind of valid
investigation.

Second, I knew from -- that they also had
a letter from Mr. Scarola that said that multiple
witnesses had placed me in the presence of Jeffrey
Epstein and underage girls and | knew that

Oo OA AUN ee WH

NNNNN NP EH HB BP PP BP PE
We WN HE Ow OANA UM PFW NPR OO

A. Well, first, 1 knew that anything they
gathered --

MR. INDYKE: Objection to the extent that
requires --

MR. SCOTT: Whoa.

MS. McCAWLEY: -- you to disclose anything
you gave --

THE COURT REPORTER: I can't hear.

I'm sorry, Mr. Indyke, can you repeat your
objection?

MR. SCOTT: Can you say that a little
louder?

MR. INDYKE: Darren Indyke. I would
object to the extent that your answer would
disclose anything you -- you obtained or
learned or any knowledge you gained in
connection with your representation of Jeffrey
Epstein.

MR. SCOTT: Do you understand that
instruction?

THE WITNESS: I do, yes.

Could you repeat the question?

BY MR. SCAROLA:
Q. Yes, sir. | want to know what information
you had regarding what Bradley Edwards and Paul

oO ON KU PF WN

NNNNNNEF PH PP PP PPB
UP WN OO OAH ew NP Oo

272

Mr. Scarola's Icttcr was a patent lic. And they had
access to that letter and that information.

I also knew they were relying on
depositions of two house people of Jeffrey Epstein.
And I've read these two depositions. And I'm sure I
knew of other -- other information as well.

I knew that they had stated -- I knew that
they had stated publicly, or you had stated publicly
on their behalf as a witness, that you had stated
publicly that you had tried to depose me on these --

on this subject. I knew that that was a blatant lie
and uncthical conduct because nobody ever tried to
depose me on this subject.

[ had never been accused, nor did I have
any knowledge that anybody had ever falsely accused
me of having any sexual cncounters. And [had a

great deal of information about the paucity or
absence of any legitimate investigation. And Lalso
knew that they hadn't called me, they hadn't tried
to call me, there was no record of an attempt to
call me or c-mail me. My e-mail is available on my
website. My phone number is available on my
website.

The most basic thing they could have done,
as courts have said, when you're accusing somebody

24 (Pages 269 to 272)

www.phippsreporting.com
(888) 811-3408

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010806
