4.2.12
WC: 191694

which was once owned by the Sultan of Brunei, is a flying mansion, equipped with a bedroom,
several sitting rooms, a chef and other appertences of wealth and glamour. I spent much of the
trip conferring with Sheldon and his wife, Dr. Miriam Adelson, who is an expert in addiction and
the psychological problems associated with drug dependency. As we were about to land, I was
invited into the cockpit where I saw the Hoover Dam and other interesting sights on the approach
to Las Vegas. Upon arriving in Las Vegas I was taken to the Dr. Miriam and Sheldon Adelson
Educational Campus and shown around the school that they built in a suburb of Las Vegas. Then
I was picked up by Larry Ruvo, who wanted me to see the brain institute that architect Frank
Grary had built in Ruvo’s father’s memory. Ruvo credits me with helping to get this project
done, after the local university ran out of money and broke its agreement with him. I wrote a
strong letter on his behalf, and the result was an arrangement with the Cleveland Clinic, one of the
great medical institutions in the world. After touring the facility, I went to the Venetian Hotel
where I spoke on behalf of the Adelson Day School and was honored with a beautiful plaque
made from Jerusalem stone. The students of the school presented me with a book of drawings
that the students had done in my honor representing their views of justice. (Later that week, I
passed the book around to the college students in my seminar on morality.) At 10PM, I was
taken to the airport where the Adelsons smaller jet—a gulfstream—was waiting to fly me back to
New York where I arrived at 5:30AM.

Following a few hours of sleep in my New York apartment, I was picked up by a paralegal and

driven to Rikers Island where I spent the morning conferring with my client Gigi Jordan, who is
accused of murder. She had killed her autistic son and tried to kill herself after learning that her
child had been repeatedly abused, both sexually and physically by his biological father, and after
unsuccessfully seeking help from numerous government and social service agencies.

After returning from Rikers Island, I was driven to Brooklyn College, where my legal and
personal papers—more than a million of them in 1600 boxes—were being opened for public
viewing. I am contributing all of my papers to my alma matter. I made a talk about the papers
and my experiences at Brooklyn College to a crowd that included my wife and sons, old friends,
classmates, current and former faculty members, and current students. It was a thrilling
experience for me to go back more than half a century to the college that meant so much to me
and to express my appreciation to people who so influenced my life.

On Tuesday I appeared in New York State Supreme Court on behalf of my client Gigi Jordan and
made arguments in preparation for her trial. Following that court appearance, I boarded the
Acela train and went home for a good long night’s sleep.

On Wednesday morning I met with the Chief Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, Luis
Moreno Ocampo, for breakfast. He had invited me to discuss with him a pending application of
the Palestinian Authority to be recognized as a state by the International Criminal Court in order
to bring charges against Israel for the war in Gaza and for building settlements in the West Bank.
We had a long and fruitful discussion.

I then went back to the law school where I prepared for my first class of the day—a legal ethics
course from | to 3PM. Before class I had a short lunch in the faculty dining room where I sat

with an old friend, Michael Boudin, who is a judge on the US Court of Appeals for the First

345

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017432
