° In a second incident in December of 2007, while you were still at Case Western, the same student
visited your office to interview you for a student science journal. You closed the door behind her, and ignored
the questions she had prepared. Then you made a casual comment about taking her out for dinner.

° Later, in a regular column for the school paper, she described her experiences with you, without
mentioning you by name. “There was even one particular creep of a professor who once told me he thought
differently of me compared to other students and asked me to dinner: a situation so disturbing that it left me
upset for weeks afterward,” she wrote.

° She was then approached by a dean at the university, who suspected that she was referring to you,
based on a previously reported incident with another student. He encouraged her to make a complaint, and
she did.

° University investigators interviewed both you and the student.

° On September 4, 2008, Susan Nickel-Schindewolf, the university’s associate vice president for student
affairs, wrote to the student, telling her that the investigation was complete. She wrote that you had been told:
“This type of behavior could constitute sexual harassment in violation of the university’s sexual harassment
policy.”

° The letter also stated that you were prohibited from making contact with the student as long as she
remained at Case.

° The letter also stated that you are required to get approval from the dean or the chair of the physics
department before setting foot on the campus again.

° The letter also stated, “Dr. Krauss expressed regret about having a negative impact on you, and also
his willingness to use this complaint as an opportunity to reflect and improve on his future interactions with
students.”

° By then, you had already left Case, taking up your current position at Arizona State University the
month before.

° “The opportunities being offered at ASU are simply too great to turn down at this stage in my career,”
you told Case colleagues, in an email announcing your departure on April 16, 2008.

Incident 3:

° A former Case Western physics department administrator confirmed that she had reported a previous
incident involving a student who had confided in her about your inappropriate behavior towards her.

Incident 4:

° You met a student from another university, an atheist activist, in March 2008 at the American Atheists
Convention in Minneapolis. She wanted to expand the atheist group she ran at the midwestern university she
was attending, and hoped to convince you to come and speak. You initially seemed enthusiastic.

° During the convention, attendees including you and Richard Dawkins went for dinner with the student
and volunteers for Dawkins’ foundation.

° Afterwards, the student invited you to join the volunteers for a drink.

° You asked her to come get you in your hotel room. She was wary of your intentions, and so brought a
male friend with her. Opening the door to find them both there, you informed her you had decided not to go.
° You met this student again at the American Atheists Convention in Des Moines, lowa, in April 2011.

° You pulled over a chair for her in the bar, and then started running your hand up her leg under the
table.

° She tried to shift her body away from you, and you persisted in putting your hand on her leg. She

crossed her legs, and you kept trying. Then she turned her entire body away.

Incident 5:

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031274
