was gleefully called by insiders the “perp walk” in front of press and assorted gawkers. An
act of obeisance, if not humiliation.

The otherworldly sense of Trump Tower helped obscure the fact that few in the thin
ranks of Trump’s inner circle, with their overnight responsibility for assembling a
government, had almost any relevant experience. Nobody had a political background.
Nobody had a policy background. Nobody had a legislative background.

Politics is a network business, a who-you-know business. But unlike other presidents-
elect—all of whom invariably suffered from their own management defects—Trump did
not have a career’s worth of political and government contacts to call on. He hardly even
had his own political organization. For most of the last eighteen months on the road, it had
been, at its core, a three-person enterprise: his campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski
(until he was forced out a month before the Republican National Convention); his
spokesperson-bodyperson-intern, the campaign’s first hire, twenty-six-year-old Hope
Hicks; and Trump himself. Lean and mean and gut instincts—the more people you had to
deal with, Trump found, the harder it was to turn the plane around and get home to bed at
night.

The professional team—although in truth there was hardly a political professional
among them—that had joined the campaign in August was a last-ditch bid to avoid
hopeless humiliation. But these were people he’d worked with for just a few months.

Reince Priebus, getting ready to shift over from the RNC to the White House, noted,
with alarm, how often Trump offered people jobs on the spot, many of whom he had never
met before, for positions whose importance Trump did not particularly understand.

Ailes, a veteran of the Nixon, Reagan, and Bush 41 White Houses, was growing
worried by the president-elect’s lack of immediate focus on a White House structure that
could serve and protect him. He tried to impress on Trump the ferocity of the opposition
that would greet him.

“You need a son of a bitch as your chief of staff. And you need a son of a bitch who
knows Washington,” Ailes told Trump not long after the election. “You’ll want to be your
own son of a bitch, but you don’t know Washington.” Ailes had a suggestion: “Speaker
Boehner.” (John Boehner had been the Speaker of the House until he was forced out in a
Tea Party putsch in 2011.)

“Who’s that?” asked Trump.

Everybody in Trump’s billionaire circle, concerned about his contempt for other
people’s expertise, tried to impress upon him the importance of the people, the many
people, he would need with him in the White House, people who understood Washington.
Your people are more important than your policies. Your people are your policies.

“Frank Sinatra was wrong,” said David Bossie, one of Trump’s longtime political

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019903
