10.

11.

12.

13.

at with the label “TIM” in Gmail. [Note earlier in this article how I am now asking VAs to leave
to-do’s via voicemail.]

Do you put in any events in your calendar?
Yes, but I expect I will move more and more to having you do it.
Do we “manage” your items, or do you delegate? We are cool with both, but prefer to manage.:-)

I'll try to give the list to you to take care of. I NEED confirmations that you received the task (“on
it—will be done at X P.M.” is enough) and like status updates on larger projects with milestones.

Who is on your team?

Me, the publishing team, and some PR folk at this point. I might have you get involved with my
other businesses later, but that’s it for now.

Who do we have to collaborate with on a regular basis?

See above. 90% me, then possibly my publicist(s), tech support and web staff, and my book agent.
More will come, I’m sure, but that’s it for now.

Who calls the shots for you?
You can decide anything under $100. Use your judgment and report the decisions.
Do you have “days” off (as in no business appts.)?

Let’s shoot for no appointments on Fridays, but let’s play it by ear. [Update: I now only have
appointments on Mondays and Fridays.]

Who has been handling your appts. up until now?

Me. I haven’t had any in-person meetings for close to four years. Things have changed with the
book:)

Explain to us your “optimal” work week (i.e., how long between phone calls, how many meetings
per week, travel preferences, etc.)?

o » I go to bed late, so try and avoid calls before 10 am. pst when
possible.

o » Try and “cluster” phone calls and meetings so that I can bang
them out at the same time, as opposed to having one at 10 am.
, another at 1 pm ., and another at 4 pm. Have them all in a row
with 15-20 minutes in between whenever possible. I’d like to
do phone calls before | pm. pst when possible (so 10 am-i pm
.). Calls should be kept to 15-30 minutes, always with a
defined end time. If someone asks to “jump on the phone”
with me, send them something like: “To make the best use of
everyone’s time, Tim likes to have a well-defined agenda
with objectives for a call before jumping on the phone. Can
you please send over some bullet points with what you’d like

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014010
