/ BARAK / 140

program back by years. And even if the Iranians knew it was coming, they’d be
able to do nothing to stop it.

“Our problem, Mr, President,” I said, “is that we can’t be sure our friend will
show up. Since Iran is already very nearly in a zone of immunity against an Israeli
attack, we can’t afford to wait until the afternoon. By then, with our capabilities,
we won’t even be able to give the bully a black eye.” I said I trusted what he’d just
told me. “I’m sure it genuinely reflects your intentions now. But there are no
futures contracts in statesmanship. There’s no way that you, or any leader, can
commit yourself to what will happen in a year or two. When the moment of
decision arrives, nothing will be able to free you from the responsibility to look at
the situation as it is then, with American interests in mind.”

He accepted the point. But he reiterated his view that “kinetic action” — US
security-speak for a military strike — would not only remove his ability to exhaust
the non-military alternatives. He said it wouldn’t be in Israel’s interests, either.
“We hear that even people high up in your military, in military intelligence and the
Mossad, are against it.”

That, I couldn’t deny. “We highly respect our top people in the military, and in
intelligence. We make a point of listening to them before taking action,” I said.
“But here’s the difference. When they look up, they see Netanyahu, or me. When
Bibi and I look up, we see heaven. Whoever is up there, we clearly can’t go to
them for advice. We are responsible for Israel’s security.”

The president smiled, but brought the discussion back down to earth. When he
again urged us to consider the American position in any decision, I replied: “Mr
President, I feel compelled to tell you frankly how I see the situation. We highly
appreciate, and are grateful, that America supports Israel in so many ways. I
believe we’re doing our best to support American interests in the Middle East as
well. But when it comes to issues critical for the security and future of Israel, and
in a way for the future of the Jewish people, we can’t afford to delegate
responsibility even to our best friend and ally. When we face such situations, we
have to decide on our own, and act on our decisions. I would expect the United
States, and you as its president, to respect that position.” He did not seem
especially happy with what I’d said. But he showed no anger. Though we differed,
it was clear that he understood and respected our position. In any case, I believed it

426
HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_028274
