Tax Risks

Certain tax risks relating to an investment in the Fund are discussed in Section XI “Certain Tax
& ERISA Considerations”, which prospective investors should read carefully. No assurances
can be given that current tax laws, rulings and regulation will not be changed during the life of
the Fund. Prospective Limited Partners should consult their tax advisors for further
information about the tax consequences of purchasing a Limited Partner Interest in the Fund.

Withholding and Other Taxes

The General Partner intends to structure the Fund’s investments in a manner that is intended to
achieve the Fund’s investment objectives and, notwithstanding anything contained herein to the
contrary, there can be no assurance that the structure of any investment will be tax efficient for
any particular investor or that any particular tax result will be achieved. In addition, tax
reporting requirements may be imposed on investors under the laws of the jurisdictions in
which investors are liable to taxation or in which the Fund makes portfolio investments.
Prospective investors should consult their own professional advisors with respect to the tax
consequences to them of an investment in the Fund under the laws of the jurisdiction in which
they are liable to taxation. Furthermore, the Fund’s returns in respect of its investments may be
reduced by withholding or other taxes imposed by jurisdictions in which the Fund’s portfolio
companies are organized.

Confidential Information

The Partnership Agreement will contain confidentiality provisions intended to protect
proprietary and other information relating to the Fund and the Fund’s portfolio companies. To
the extent that such information is publicly disclosed, competitors of the Fund and/or
competitors of its portfolio companies, and others, may benefit from such information, thereby
adversely affecting the Fund, its portfolio companies and the General Partner and the economic
interests of Limited Partners.

Written Agreements

The Fund, the General Partner and the Management Company will be authorized, without the
approval of any Limited Partner, to enter into side letters or similar written agreements with
Limited Partners that have the effect of establishing rights under, or altering or supplementing
the terms of this Memorandum, the Partnership Agreement, such Limited Partner’s
Subscription Agreement or other related agreements. The ability of other Limited Partners to
receive copies of and/or elect to receive the benefit of such side agreements will be limited.

Market volatility

Since 2008, the capital, credit and securities markets have been experiencing unprecedented
levels of volatility and disruption. Ongoing volatility could negatively impact the Fund in a
number of ways. Many of the investments purchased, held and sold on behalf of the Fund may
be complex, and their market values will be highly sensitive to market changes. Overall Fund
returns may be reduced as relatively small changes in the capital, credit or securities markets
may have significant impacts on the profitability of Fund investments. In addition, the U.S.
Congress and regulatory agencies may adopt new financial regulations and tax policies in
response to continued volatility, which could restrict the Fund’s investment options and be
otherwise unfavorable to the Fund.

70 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024081
