2]

interpretation by experts employing various explicit or implicit
models, the most prominent of which casts the regime as a “rational
actor” that calculates risks and rewards like any Western state. In this
model the highest goal is regime survival, a notion that doesn’t
necessarily apply to the Iranian clerical regime. Clerics, even
Christian ones from an earlier age, have been known to take their
otherworldly prerogatives seriously.

All we can say, then, is that the regime would not try to martyr itself,
nor would it be passive. Most likely, Iran would seek to prolong and
expand the war, attrite U.S. forces and morale, and weaken the
resolve of coalition members. Iran has the means, methods and allies
with which to respond in this fashion, and it has made clear that it
would use them.9

Important Iranian conventional war assets include short- and medium-
range missiles; strike aircraft; missile-equipped naval combatants and
small boats; naval mine-laying capabilities; regular army and IRGC
special forces; and air defense and coastal defense missiles. These
conventional capabilities provide Iran a substantial ability for a local
fight in the Strait of Hormuz, the Persian Gulf and along its
borders.10 Iran “leans” on the Persian Gulf states from a military and
political perspective. Shi‘a populations in Bahrain and Saudi Arabia
could be a useful resource and environment for terrorist and irregular
operations.

While the Iranian military is at its most dangerous close to its
frontiers, we are not “safe” from it anywhere. Missile systems
(principally the Shahab 3 variants and Seyjjl types) allow Iran to strike
targets throughout the Middle East, including population centers,
military facilities, infrastructure and U.S. forces based in the
region.11 Iranian missile numbers and launchers are limited, but Iran
has other means of waging a global conflict, including its allies. For
instance, Iran would likely attempt to induce Hizballah to attack

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018111
