What does an igloo-dwelling millionaire do that a cubicle-dweller doesn’t? Follow an uncommon set
of rules.

How does a lifelong blue-chip employee escape to travel the world for a month without his boss even
noticing? He uses technology to hide the fact.

Gold is getting old. The New Rich (NR) are those who abandon the deferred-life plan and create
luxury lifestyles in the present using the currency of the New Rich: time and mobility. This is an art and
a science we will refer to as Lifestyle Design (LD).

I’ve spent the last three years traveling among those who live in worlds currently beyond your
imagination. Rather than hating reality, Il show you how to bend it to your will. It’s easier than it
sounds. My journey from grossly overworked and severely underpaid office worker to member of the
NR is at once stranger than fiction and—now that I’ve deciphered the code—simple to duplicate. There
is a recipe.

Life doesn’t have to be so damn hard. It really doesn’t. Most people, my past self included, have spent
too much time convincing themselves that life has to be hard, a resignation to 9-to-5 drudgery in
exchange for (sometimes) relaxing weekends and the occasional keep-it-short-or-get-fired vacation.

The truth, at least the truth I live and will share in this book, is quite different. From leveraging
currency differences to outsourcing your life and disappearing, I'll show you how a small underground
uses economic sleight-of-hand to do what most consider impossible.

If you’ve picked up this book, chances are that you don’t want to sit behind a desk until you are 62.
Whether your dream is escaping the rat race, real-life fantasy travel, long-term wandering, setting world
records, or simply a dramatic career change, this book will give you all the tools you need to make it a
reality in the here-and-now instead of in the often elusive “retirement.” There is a way to get the rewards
for a life of hard work without waiting until the end.

How? It begins with a simple distinction most people miss—one I missed for 25 years.

People don’t want to be millionaires—they want to experience what they believe only millions can
buy. Ski chalets, butlers, and exotic travel often enter the picture. Perhaps rubbing cocoa butter on your
belly in a hammock while you listen to waves rhythmically lapping against the deck of your thatched-
roof bungalow? Sounds nice.

$1,000,000 in the bank isn’t the fantasy. The fantasy is the lifestyle of complete freedom it supposedly
allows. The question is then, How can one achieve the millionaire lifestyle of complete freedom without
first having $1,000,000?

In the last five years, I have answered this question for myself, and this book will answer it for you. I
will show you exactly how I have separated income from time and created my ideal lifestyle in the
process, traveling the world and enjoying the best this planet has to offer. How on earth did I go from
14-hour days and $40,000 per year to 4-hour weeks and $40,000-plus per month?

It helps to know where it all started. Strangely enough, it was in a class of soon-to-be investment
bankers.

In 2002, I was asked by Ed Zschau, tibermentor and my former professor of High-tech
Entrepreneurship at Princeton University, to come back and speak to the same class about my business
adventures in the real world. I was stuck. There were already decamillionaires speaking to the same
class, and even though I had built a highly profitable sports supplement company, I marched to a
distinctly different drummer.

Over the ensuing days, however, I realized that everyone seemed to be discussing how to build large
and successful companies, sell out, and live the good life. Fair enough. The question no one really
seemed to be asking or answering was, Why do it all in the first place? What is the pot of gold that
justifies spending the best years of your life hoping for happiness in the last?

The lectures I ultimately developed, titled “Drug Dealing for Fun and Profit,’ began with a simple

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013806
