2 hire an IT person asap

3.I would hire jerry the woman. gittis. person

4 I will find a subpart k person to handle partnership acct

5 , accounting software upgrade, onlilne banking needs to be seamless
6. not sure status of bringing plane boat acct inhouse?

7 prepare fbar report for june. draft next week

8 pahidon actuals vs projections. . new valuation

9 . new valuation of tra contract?

jpm db goldman sachs acct? new Ilc?

review of dec 31 books for all entities? bfp . etc

Date: Wed, May 13, 2015 at 3:04 PM

Subject: Fwd: jobs ahead

To: Melanie Spinella

the list that we discussed.. i spent time with brad again. re the candidates . fiiling due, this week, next
month, .

Date: Sun, Dec 28, 2014 at 5:18 AM
Subject: jobs ahead

To: Brad Wechs >, Melanie Spinel: i, Ada Clapp
a

1. review accounting system. Book keeping softaware. _ staff, ( senior accountant ) methods on line
banking, brokerage. cash mgmt. airplane reimbursement. boat sale. art purchases sales use and sales tax.
tax filings FBAR FATCA, gaming commsion, pfics, insurance . uk co law.

2. review docs for TRA BRH grats, trusts, heritage will, insurance, art lending. medical, springing
powers. two fire drill books. one needed for injury. other for death

3 review bills . boats , planes, legal, (PW, McFarlands all outside. legal and accounting. Toms bills
over 400k . house projects. south ny ben

4 cashflow projections tax projections , interaction with Apollo accounting tax, Phaidon ,art space ,and
Regan. legal accounting. audit

5. children meetings , review to date and allocations

6 review all role in payables. files scanned, no paper

7 review invesmtents for tax basis and unrecognized gain

8 schedule of all hedge funds . redeemables commitments etc.

9 charities pledges strucutre, staff,

Date: Mon, May 18, 2015 at 2:17 PM
Subject: agenda for tomorrrow
To: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com>, Melanie Spinella <
as areflection on your voiced spirited concerns in the what have you done for me lately category ? ))::
in the beginning . there was eileen and tom. ( eve and adam,-- however it appears, she declined to

eat the apple from the knowledge tree)

that was it. ada was at the bank but reviewing docs. carlyn was in the kitchen making mush ( abel and
cain)

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023277
