Brainstorming Mini-Retirement Locations

= Virtual Tourist ( www.virtualtourist.com )

The single largest source of unbiased, user-generated travel content in the world. More than 1,000,000
members contribute tips and warnings for more than 25,000 locations. Each location is covered in 13
separate categories, including Things to Do, Local Customs, Shopping, and Tourist Traps. This is one-
stop shopping for most mini-retirements.

» Escape Artist ( www.escapeartist.com )

Interested in second passports, starting your own country, Swiss banking, and all the other things I
wouldn’t dare put in this book? This site is a fantastic resource. Drop me a note from the Caymans or
jail, whichever comes first. Also search “How to Be Jason Bourne” at www.fourhourblog.com.

> Outside Magazine Online Free Archives ( http://outside.away.com )
The entire archive of Outside magazine available online for free. From meditation camps to worldwide

adrenaline hotspots, dream jobs to Patagonia winter highlights, there are hundreds of articles with
beautiful photos to give you the walkabout itch.

» GridSkipper: The Urban Travel Guide ( www.gridskipper.com )

For those who love Blade Runner-like settings and exploring the cool nooks and crannies of cities
worldwide, this is the site. Itis one of Forbes’s Top 13 Travel sites and is “high-falootin’ and low-brow
all in the same breath” (Frommer’s). Translation: Much of the content is not G-rated. If four-letter words
or a “world’s sluttiest city” poll bother you, don’t bother visiting this site (or Rio de Janeiro, for that
matter). Otherwise, check out the hysterical writing and “$100 a day” info for cities worldwide.

=» Lonely Planet: The Thorn Tree ( http://thorntree.lonelyplanet.com )

Discussion forum for global travelers with threads separated by region.

» Family Travel Forum ( www.familytravelforum.com )

A comprehensive forum on, you guessed it, family travel. Want to sell your kids for top dollar in the
Eastern Bloc? Or save a few dollars and cremate Grannie in Thailand? Then this isn’t the site. But if you
have kids and are planning a big trip, this is the place.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013970
