11

Faced with this dynamic, it will be difficult for Fatah to maintain its
relationship with Israel. Indeed, Fatah could be forced to initiate an
intifada, something it would greatly prefer to avoid, as this would
undermine what economic development the West Bank has
experienced.

Israel therefore conceivably could face conflict in Gaza, a conflict
along the Lebanese border and a rising in the West Bank, something
it clearly knows. In a rare move, Israel announced plans to call up
reserves in September. Though preannouncements of such things are
not common, Israel wants to signal resolution.

Israel has two strategies in the face of the potential storm. One is a
devastating attack on Gaza followed by rotating forces to the north to
deal with Hezbollah and intense suppression of an intifada. Dealing
with Gaza fast and hard is the key if the intention is to abort the
evolution I laid out. But the problem here is that the three-front
scenario I laid out is simply a possibility; there is no certainty here. If
Israel initiates conflict in Gaza and fails, it risks making a possibility
into a certainty - and Israel has not had many stunning victories for
several decades. It could also create a crisis for Egypt's military
rulers, not something the Israelis want.

Israel also simply could absorb the attacks from Hamas to make Israel
appear the victim. But seeking sympathy is not likely to work given
how Palestinians have managed to shape global opinion. Moreover,
we would expect Hamas to repeat its attacks to the point that Israel
no longer could decline combat.

War thus benefits Hamas (even if Hamas maintains plausible
deniability by having others commit the attacks), a war Hezbollah has
good reason to enter at such a stage and that Fatah does not want but
could be forced into. Such a war could shift the Egyptian dynamic
significantly to Hamas' advantage, while Iran would certainly want al-
Assad to be able to say to Syrians that a war with Israel is no time for

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_031923
