It is fatal to know too much at the outcome: boredom comes as quickly to the traveler who
knows his route as to the novelist who is overcertain of his plot.

—PAUL THEROUX, To the Ends of the Earth

L, this is your first time considering a commitment to the mobile lifestyle and long-term adventuring, I

envy you! Making the jump and entering the new worlds that await is like upgrading your role in life
from passenger to pilot.

The bulk of this Q&A will focus on the precise steps that you should take—and the countdown
timeline you can use—when preparing for your first mini-retirement. Most steps can be eliminated or
condensed once you get one trip under your belt. Some of the steps are one-time events, after which
subsequent mini-retirements will require a maximum of two to three weeks of preparation. It now takes
me three afternoons.

Grab a pencil and paper—this will be fun.

1. Take an asset and cash-flow snapshot.

Set two sheets of paper on a table. Use one to record all assets and corresponding values, including bank
accounts, retirement accounts, stocks, bonds, home, and so forth. On the second, draw a line down the
middle and write down all incoming cash flow (salary, muse income, investment income, etc.) and
outgoing expenses (mortgage, rent, car payments, etc.). What can you eliminate that is either seldom used
or that creates stress or distraction without adding a lot of value?

2. Fear-set a one-year mini-retirement in a dream location in Europe.
Use the questions from chapter 3 to evaluate your worst-case-scenario fears and evaluate the real
potential consequences. Except in rare cases, most will be avoidable and the rest will be reversible.

3. Choose a location for your actual mini-retirement. Where to start?
This is the big question. There are two options that I advocate:

1. Choose a starting point and then wander until you find your second home. This is what I did with a
one-way ticket to London, vagabonding throughout Europe until I fell in love with Berlin, where I
remained for three months.

2. Scout a region and then settle in your favorite spot. This is what I did with a tour of Central and
South America, where I spent one to four weeks in each of several cities, after which I returned to
my favorite— Buenos Aires—for six months.

It is possible to take a mini-retirement in your own country, but the transformative effect is hampered if
you are surrounded by people who carry the same socially reinforced baggage.

I recommend choosing an overseas location that will seem foreign but that isn’t dangerous. I box, race

motorcycles, and do all sorts of macho things, but I draw the line at favelas ~ civilians with machine
guns, pedestrians with machetes, and social strife. Cheap is good, but bullet holes are bad. Check the
U.S. Department of State for travel warnings before booking tickets (http:// travel.state.gov).

Here are just a few of my favorite starting points. Feel free to choose other locations. The most
lifestyle for the dollar is underlined: Argentina (Buenos Aires, Cordoba), China (Shanghai, Hong Kong,
Taipei), Japan (Tokyo, Osaka), England (London), Ireland (Galway), Thailand (Bangkok, Chiang Mai),
Germany (Berlin, Munich), Norway (Oslo), Australia (Sydney), New Zealand (Queenstown), Italy

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013966
