164 | HOW AMERICA LOST ITS SECRETS

have been reeled in unwittingly. Morell suggested in his book that
Snowden might not himself have fully realized “when and how he
would be used.”

It can be safely assumed that the decision made by Putin’s intel-
ligence service to allow Snowden to travel to Russia proceeded from
something other than softhearted sentiment about his welfare. After
Putin learned that there was an American in Hong Kong from the
“special services” seeking to come to Russia, he also learned from
Snowden’s own disclosure on the video released that Snowden had
taken a large number of NSA documents to Hong Kong: indeed,
some were shown on the video. After that self-outing by Snowden,
Putin had plenty of time to calculate the advantages and disadvan-
tages of allowing him to come to Moscow.

Putin could offer him not only freedom from arrest but also a
platform to express his views. The exploitation of an intelligence
defector, even after he yields his secrets, can be the final stage of
a successful intelligence operation. The CIA considered one of its
greatest coups of the Cold War its release of the espionage-acquired

© secret speech of Nikita Khrushchev to the Communist Party of the ©
Soviet Union in 1956 exposing the transgressions of the previous
regime of Joseph Stalin. Making public these deeds was meant by
the CIA to sow discord both inside the Soviet Union and to disrupt
its relations with its allies. General Alexander suggested that Putin
might similarly be “looking to capitalize on the fact that [Snowden’s]
actions are enormously disruptive and damaging to US interests.”
This potential gain, if Alexander’s assessment is correct, provided
Putin with an additional reason to have his representatives in Hong
Kong offer Snowden exfiltration.

Snowden was in no position to refuse. After the release of the
video, there was no going back to America without his facing a
determined criminal prosecution. He would have known that in
almost every prior case intelligence workers who had intentionally
released even a single classified document had gone to prison. As his
Internet postings show, he had closely followed the ordeal of Bradley
Manning, whose trial was coming to its conclusion while Snowden
was in Hong Kong. Manning had been kept in solitary confinement

| | Epst_9780451494566_2p_all_r1.z.indd 164 ® 9/29/16 5:51 Pa | |

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_019652
