Business Expansion Portfolio and Prospectus
Twin City Care of The Virgin Islands
1

Dear Mr. Jeffrey Edward Epstein

“Twin City; For Today, for the Future, and for Our Community”. Twin City Makes Connections
for Life.

Twin City Mobile Integrated Health Services (TCMIH) is a private, non-profit, non-emergency,
certified, advance and basic life support interfacility ambulance provider, specialized transport and
mobile phlebotomy service. Our staff are trained professionals who have the experience of
transporting thousands of patients to and from various healthcare facilities and playing a key role
in the Virgin Islands Prehospital Care.

TCMIH provides patient centered, compassionate care in an atmosphere of safety and
professionalism, serving hospitals, clinics, nursing homes, air ambulance and private medical
facilities in the Virgin Islands.

As a provider of mobile medical service, we bring to the community a company that is committed

to excellence in medical transportation and patient care. From our team of highly skilled
Phlebotomist, EMR’s, EMT’s, Advanced EMT’s, Nurses and Paramedics ready to care for their
patient’ s needs, to the professional management team our focus remains patient centered and safety
driven from start to finish. TCMIH is guided by the vision of experienced healthcare providers
from our local EMS, Florida EMS and a Certificate of Need/Necessity (CON) awarded by the
Virgin Islands Department of Health. Twin City invests heavily in itself through its personnel,
equipment, vehicle and training to maintain the highest level of quality and professionalism. We
also invest back into the community through donations and community service projects.

While no one anticipates or favors an injury or crisis, mental crisis, illness or the aging process
you can rest assured that your medical needs will be met professionally by a team of caring
individuals focused on making the most comfortable and compassionate experience possible.

Sincerely!

Eugene Phipps, TNT EMR
President
Twin City Care, Inc.

Jeffery D. Gilliard, BS, NRP/CCEMTP/FPM
CEO
Twin City Care, Inc.

Jerry Galloway, NRP, CCEMTP

Chief Operations Officer
Twin City Care, Inc.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029476
