VI. DEAL SOURCING & INVESTMENT PROCESS

The Fund Managers have a proactive approach to deal sourcing, which focuses on both private
and public opportunities. The established and proven sourcing activities seek to identify the
most compelling healthcare technology investment opportunities, at the most attractive time
points for venture capital investment. The Fund Managers’ goal is to identify opportunities that
are based on the most interesting novel and proprietary technologies, but place their emphasis
on being positioned for investing in these technologies in the round(s) that offer the most
attractive risk-adjusted returns potential. These investment opportunities are identified
through a number of parallel efforts, including:

e Systematic tracking of private and public companies that have product programs and
technologies targeting disease areas and biological targets of high interest that are
approaching key value inflection points. Current activities include comprehensive
screening of companies with programs targeting high unmet medical needs where the
strength of the science coupled with a rapid and lower capital intensity development
path, provides a compelling risk-reward case for investment. At the present time, the
Fund Managers are tracking a biopharma investment universe of approximately 1,000
mid-late stage private and small-cap public companies, many of which are in
therapeutic areas of specific interest to the Fund Managers (e.g. Oncology, Infectious
Disease, Central Nervous System, etc.);

e Continuous contact with a network of current and former portfolio company
management teams;

e Networking with current and former senior management team members from leading
pharmaceutical, biotech, medical device, and HIT companies to understand their
strategic priorities and to identify assets/programs that may become available for
spinouts or structured financings;

e Staying up to date and in contact with leading academic thought leaders working in
NLV’s fields of interest;

e Active coverage of major investor, medical and scientific meetings; and

e Working closely with other venture capitalists with overlapping interests to ensure NLV
sees the broadest range of high quality opportunities and are positioned for working
with the strongest syndicates.

A key success factor behind the Fund Managers’ deal sourcing activities is a strong network of
entrepreneurs, industry executives, renowned clinicians, leading academic scientists, other
venture investors, and experienced consultants. The Fund Managers believe that this network
plays a critical role in helping to identify the most interesting opportunities, bringing the
leading resources to bear to assist in due diligence, and in providing important technical and
recruiting support in building portfolio companies. The Fund Managers continuously invest
time and energy in updating and building this strong network to ensure access to the managers
and thought leaders that are the industry’s leaders in the sectors of interest.

43 CONTROL NUMBER 257 - CONFIDENTIAL

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_024054
