POLYAMORY:
[theory] My Top Questions About Dealing With Multiple Lovers

I wrote this in early 2011. The comments on the online version are especially good -- lots
of viewpoints and resources shared. Sometimes my commenters just blow me away.

TK OK ok

My Top Questions About Dealing With Multiple Lovers

I have a lot more theoretical exposure to polyamory than personal experience, but I've
been gaining more personal experience over the last year. It's often interesting, sometimes
painful.

Some recent experiences are making me think I am not nearly as smart or as on top of my
emotions as I like to believe I am. I remind myself that I have to be willing to
acknowledge when I don't know what I'm thinking, but that's harder than it looks... I don't
always take enough time to understand my feelings before speaking or acting.

Still. Through the stupid mistakes and the understandable ones, though my own failures
to be sensitive and the little heartbreaks I've sustained, I've been learning.

One thing I think I've figured out is what I want: I want a number of different
relationships that are ongoing, and one or two relationships that are primary, or especially
committed. Ideally, in fact, I'd love to eventually have a permanent relationship with a
primary polyamorous partner in which we have kids with each other, live together most
of the time, etc, but are still polyamorous. That would be a while in the future, though --
for now, it's important to me to not feel as though my partners expect me to settle down
or stay in one place or anything like that. It seems like any relationship I develop, even
during this relatively early time in my life, could become a child-rearing relationship
eventually -- like, years from now -- but if it does, I doubt I'd want to make it
monogamous.

I recognize that we don't always get our ideal world. In fact, we usually don't. Although
polyamory is a high priority for me, it may be something I eventually compromise on,
given that the majority of people in this world identify as monogamous.

Keeping all that in mind, my preference for polyamory presents some challenges, and
questions that I worry about. Such as:

1. What are my responsibilities towards my partners’ other partners? A lot of poly
people will tell you that if you get into a relationship with, say, a married polyamorous
man, then you must also expect to interact with his spouse. In other words, don't assume
that your relationship means you only interact with one half of a couple. I'm totally fine
with this, but on occasion I've felt like I was getting sucked into the couple's problems, or
like I was expected to have no individual relationship with my partner -- that I always had
to go through his primary partner.

Yes, it is certainly my responsibility to communicate with my partners’ other partners and
to be friendly with them. But I need to set boundaries on that too -- just dating a poly guy

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_018606
