4.2.12
WC: 191694

I concluded my article with the following words:

President Clinton’s visit was entirely in keeping with President George Washington’s letter
to the Jews of Newport, Rhode Island, in which he wrote that mere “toleration” is not
good enough in America. Here, Jews as well as others, must be treated as equals. The
attendance of our president and first lady at a Jewish service made many Jews feel like
first-class citizens, rather than tolerated guests.

I sent the President a copy of my article. He sent back a handwritten note expressing his
appreciation for being invited to the services and for the article, and included a signed photograph
of the dinner.

During the subsequent summers, the Clintons vacationed in Martha’s Vineyard and lived right
near us. We frequently dined, partied and even square danced with them and became their
friends. We were invited to the White House on several occasions and the President sought my
advice from time to time.

Sometimes, I offered unsolicited advice, such as when I repeatedly urged him to commute the life
sentence of Jonathan Pollard to time served. I pestered him so much about Pollard that he finally
told me he didn’t want to hear anything more about it. I replied, “You can choose not to listen,
but I’m not going to stay quiet.” In the end, he wanted to commute the sentence, but he got push-
back not only from the intelligence community but also from several Jewish senators. He told me
that if I can’t even get the Jewish senators to support commutation, how could he justify it to the
intelligence community, which was adamantly opposed to it.

Another issue on which I initially offered my unsolicited advice involved the Monica Lewinsky
matter. As I watched the Lewinsky drama unfold, I saw a familiar pattern that had had gotten
many other celebrities into trouble: opting for short term gratification without considering the

longer term consequences.

At every decision point, the President and his advisors opted for a political tactic that helped them
get good headlines and poll results in the short term, rather than focusing on the longer term
strategy that might have prevented an entirely lawful sexual indiscretion from turning into a
possible crime.

The first — and most important — point was the President’s foolhardy decision to engage in a
surreptitious sexual relationship with a White House intern at a time when he knew he was under
intense investigation by Kenneth Starr, a somewhat puritanical prosecutor and was subject to a
lawsuit for sexual harassment by a vindictive woman who was represented by politically
motivated lawyers.

If there was indeed a “right wing conspiracy” out there waiting to “get” the President, as Hillary

Clinton had alleged in a television interview, it is difficult to imagine any action more reckless
than oval office sex with a young blabbermouth whose goal was probably as much to brag about

267

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_017354
