Ti v4 Expert Analysis

is a form of cafeteria plan benefit, funded
by a voluntary salary reduction arrange-
ment with pretax dollars. The benefits are
subject to an annual maximum and an an-
nual “use-or-lose” rule. Qualified medical
expenses are those incurred by, among other
individuals, the employee and his or her
Because of DOMA,
only opposite-sex married couples could use
health FSA dollars for a spouse’s qualified

medical expenses.

opposite-sex spouse.

IMPACT. The Supreme Courts decision
to strike down DOMA presumably opens
the door to same-sex married couples be-
ing able to use FSA dollars for qualified
medical expenses of both spouses. The IRS

is expected to issue guidance.

COMMENT. A cafeteria plan may not
allow an employee to request salary re-
duction contributions for a health FSA in
excess of $2,500 for plan years beginning
after December 31, 2012.

Health Savings Accounts. A health savings
account (HSA) is a vehicle that eligible tax-
payers can use to pay for or reimburse quali-
fied medical expenses. Contributions to
an HSA are tax-deductible (employer con-
tributions are excluded from gross income)
and distributions are tax-free if used to pay
for qualified medical expenses. To be an eli-
gible taxpayer, the individual, among other
requirements, must be covered by a high-de-
ductible health plan (HDHP), not enrolled
in Medicare, not claimed as a dependent on
another taxpayer's return. Qualified medi-
cal expenses are those incurred by, among
others, the taxpayer and his or her spouse.
Because of DOMA, only opposite-sex mar-
ried couples could HSA dollars for a spouse’s
qualified medical expenses.

IMPACT. With DOMA being struck
down by the Supreme Court, same-sex
married couples will presumably be able
to use HSA dollars for qualified medical
expenses of both spouses.

COBRA/FMLA. Federal law requires that
certain employers offer continuation of health
care coverage to employees, their spouses,

CCH Tax Briefing

and families (“COBRA coverage’). Current
federal laws related to COBRA coverage do
not apply to same-sex married couples. The
DOMA definition of spouse precludes the
extension of Family and Medical Leave Act
(FMLA) leave benefits to opposite-sex part-
ners. After the Supreme Court’s decision in
Windsor, these rights presumably would now
be available to same-sex spouses.

“The IRS is expected

to provide guidance on
the timing of employee
benefit plan amendments,

including the issue of
whether benefits need to
be made retroactive or
only prospective.”

Retirement Plans. The Internal Rev-
enue Code provides extensive protections
for the spouse of an employee to share in
the employee’s retirement benefits payable
through Code Sec. 401(k) plans and other
qualified plans. These protections would
presumably now apply to the same-sex
spouse of an employee.

AFFORDABLE CARE ACT

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care
Act, signed into law by President Obama
in 2010, set in motion a host of changes to
the delivery of health care and health insur-
ance coverage. Some of the changes already
in place affect health savings accounts (dis-
cussed above in this Briefing). Other chang-
es are scheduled to take effect after 2013.

Individual Mandate And Penalty. Be-
ginning in 2014, the Affordable Care Act
imposes a penalty on individuals who do
not carry minimum essential health cov-
erage for one or more months, subject
to certain exceptions. Married taxpayers
who file a joint return are jointly liable

for any penalty that may be imposed
upon either spouse. The penalty does not
apply in certain cases, such as in the case
of individuals whose household incomes
are below their filing thresholds. Now
that DOMA has been struck down, same-
sex married couples presumably will be
treated in the same manner as opposite-
sex married couples for purposes of the
individual mandate and its penalty.

COMMENT. The Affordable Care Act pro-
hibits the IRS from using liens or levies to
collect any unpaid penalty. The IRS cannot
levy on the property of one spouse to satisfy
an unpaid penalty of the other spouse.

Premium Assistance Tax Credit. Beginning
in 2014, the Code Sec. 36B premium assis-
tance tax credit is scheduled to be available
to those qualified individuals and families
who are not offered minimum essential cov-
erage and as a result obtain coverage through
a health benefit exchange. The Affordable
Care Act provides for advance payment of
the credit. Taxpayers who are married at the
end of the tax year must file a joint return
Because DOMA has

been struck down, same-sex married couples

to claim the credit.

will presumably need to file a joint return to
claim the credit.

Code Sec. 45R Credit. For tax years 2010
through 2013, eligible employers may claim
a credit of 35 percent of health insurance
premiums paid (25 percent for small tax-
exempt employers). In tax years beginning
after 2013, an employer must participate in
an insurance exchange in order to claim the
credit. The credit is scheduled to increase
to 50 percent for small business employers
(35 percent for small tax-exempt employers)
after 2013 (but will terminate after 2015).
Certain family members are not treated as
employees for purposes of the credit. Un-
der DOMA, these restrictions did not apply
to same-sex married couples because their
marriages were not recognized for federal
purposes. With DOMA’s demise, a same-
sex spouse who satisfies any of these criteria
would presumably not be treated as an em-
ployee for purposes of the credit.

©2013 CCH Incorporated. All Rights Reserved.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029312
