course his genitals area. The sunlight shown through the glass ceilings
into where we were standing, making the moment feel even more surreal
on top of the already popped Xanax I had popped before for breakfast
earlier that morning. Jeffrey was in such a lighthearted mood that day,
making funny cracks at me, and acting like a flirt. When I was finished
washing him he actually wanted to wash me too, which was another
totally out of his character suggestion.

For the rest of the day, he took me everywhere with him, the office and
then to a friends place, even just wanting to hang out with me for a while.
1 wasn’t used to being treated like anything more than a dog on a leash,
when he acted like this it just completely spun me around confusing me
even more.

We were spending heaps of time together these days, a lot more than
usual. At the ranch we would do things together, alone, and not just the
usual! perverted things ] was accustomed to doing with him alone.
Horseback riding on his ranch during weekends away by ourselves and
movie nights snuggling up over a bucket of popcorn instead of having to
massage his feet during the entire film became his way to alter my
perception of my original notion that | wasn’t just his sex slave, I thought
I was finally becoming his friend.

When we went quad biking he no longer wanted me to take my own
bike, he preferred me to sit on the back of his, holding onto him tightly
and he even tried to teach me how to drive a manual stick shift car. He
was definitely trying to show a softer side of himself, different to the
stone cold slave driver | had to come to respect out of fear over the many
years. Still a hard image to change after all | had been through and seen
over the years I had been with him. Nonetheless he was still my “boss” so
I humored his attempts and matched his caring demeanor, giving him the
impression I was intrigued in our new kind of affair.

Chapter 19

His attentiveness led into the warmer months that commenced the
beginning of long summer days that | looked forward too. I couldn’t help
but enjoy his eagerness to see me more relaxed these days. He wasn’t
even bothering me to find alternate sources of girls for his twisted
satisfaction anymore and although I was still being used for his distorted
sexual enjoyments he further seduced me into believing I meant a lot
more to him than | ever did.

113

i: Copyright Protected Material
CONFIDENTIAL GIUFFRE004246

It all came to a sudden conclusion one sunny afternoon in the Caribbean.
Jeffrey pulled himself up to the ladders first step and climbed up the next
four steps to the top of the dock. His chest was heaving rapidly as he sat
down catching his breath. Ghislane was the next one up and then I
followed lastly behind them. To me it was an invigorating snorkel around
the shallow reefs within the radius of the dock, but to Jeffrey the half an
hour swim in the ocean was enough to overexert his ageing limbs. I took
off my snorkel gear and placed it in the storage bench, grabbing us a few
towels at the same time. Wrapping a towel around Jeffrey’s backside and
handing one to Ghislane, ] sat down next to them on the dock and we
laughed how fatigued Jeffrey was, poking fun that he really is getting
older. A very touchy subject for the vain at heart but he didn’t seem to
mind it, probably knowing we'd never take the joke too far. We sat there
in silence for a moment, an odd silence at that. Jeffrey looked at Ghislane
and then Ghislane looked at me, placing me once again in the spotlight.
They both scooted closer to where I was sitting and I felt something
stirring in the air. The biggest turning point of events in all of my time
spent with them.

Jeffrey sat next to me and put his hand on my back and looked at me
with a certain kind of sincerity I hadn’t seen in him before. “I want to
first of all tell you that over the last few years you have shown me the
kind of devotion and loyalty that I believe is rare to find among people
these days, qualities I hold that high in regard.” Bewildered by the whole
scenario I just nodded every time he paused, trying to grasp what his
intentions were getting at. He continued to praise my nature saying “I
hope you know my appreciation for your embracing of my lifestyle, you
have been achieving a name for yourself among the friends I have
introduced you to. Everybody says basically the same thing about you,
the same thing J believe. You are a delightfully funny girl who has
developed into a mature graceful young woman and | could think of
nobody else I’d rather have a child than with than you.”

And just like that he created a whole new dilemma for me to face. In
utter shock from the completely unexpected proposition and before |
could even think of anything to respond with, Ghislane made the
finishing touches with the business end of the deal starting with the pros
before the cons “You would have around the clock nannies to help you.
Jeffrey would pay for a mansion of your choice in either Palm Beach or
New York” and as if the drumrolls were beckoning “ and... you would
have a hefty monthly allowance from Jeffrey’s bank account” Astonished
at their first offers I nearly took the bait. Then she continued to finish the
terms of our pre-agreement with “But you would have to travel with the
child where and when Jeffrey wanted you to be, and most importantly
you would have to sign a contract stating that Jeffrey and you are not

114

B Copyright Protected Material

GIUFPRE004247

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_021201
