Case 1:15-cv-07433-RWS Document 539-1 Filed 01/06/17 Page 9 of9
8/14/2016 Case 1:1 5°oreG7aaeRivS7. Dercuetredet DenGig tobi (Oe4 Hi Palpygyadgnef g

‘They said they had found photos of me at
Jeffrey’s Paim Beach house,’ she says. ‘[Epstein
had] hidden cameras watching me the entire
time even when | was in the bathroom. | was so
embarrassed.

‘l told the FBI that my true purpose was sexual.
They told me everything he did was illegal
because | was under age.’ (The age of consent
in Florida is 18).

‘They said that if it had to go to trial, they'd need
me because I'd lived with him and that made me
a key witness. | was very afraid, because he had
so much power, but eventually | agreed to
testify.

| was glad he’d finally been found out. He
shouldn't be hurting other girls. Following
Epstein’s arrest, investigators are believed to
have found a list of men’s names on his
computer and asked him whether they had been
‘treated’ to sexual encounters with his menage
of minors.

Conviction: Jeffrey Epstein

‘He took the Fifth Amendment, refusing to answer, indicating that if he were to answer the question,
it could be incriminating,’ a source told The Mail on Sunday.

Epstein struck a deal resulting in what commentators characterised as a ‘slap on the wrist’ for him,
and ended up serving 13 months of his sentence, much of it in a liberal work-release programme
Lawyer Brad Edwards, who represented several of Epstein’s victims, said: ‘Rather than punish him
the way they would an average Joe, they sent a clear message that with enough money and power
and influence, the system can be bought.’

Virginia was spared her the humiliation of having to go before a jury, and has kept her feelings
bottled up until last weekend's photograph of Andrew with Epstein triggered distressing memories.

Virginia says: ‘| am appalled. To me, it’s saying, “We are above the law.” But Jeffrey is a monster.’
Last night, neither Epstein, Ghislaine Maxwell nor Prince Andrew would comment on Virginia’s story.

Share or comment on this article

Need Business Capital? Get These Rare Historical Photos What Marcia Brady Looks
Unsecured Loansin 24 hours That Will Leave You Like Now Is Incredible
Snapcap.com Speechless Definition

History Fanatic

McCullough who
played on Live and Let
Die Bond theme dies
aged 72
Remembering his pal

Bargain shopper! Dre
Barrymore sports
colorful silk jacket as
she loads up a trolley
with knick-knacks at
tlea market
She's a mom-of-two

‘Actually done!’ Arial
Winter arrives to her
high school graduation
ceremony In form-fitting
nude dress
Alandmark day for the
18-year-old actress

Kevin Hart has $500k
af possassions stolen
as thieves raid his LA
home while he's away in
Miami
Break-in at his Tarzana
home over the weekend

‘Nothing makes me
happier’: Alyssa Milano
reunites with Who's The
Boss? co-star Judith
Light... 24 yoars after
the show ended
Catching up

No show: Mets pitcher
Bartolo Colon skips
court hearing over
dispute with once-secret
ex-girlfriend and their
two love children

‘Tve embraced the
Bi/Queer label lately’:
Matilda star Mara Wilson
reveals her sexuality on
Twitter
Also starred in Mrs
Doubifire

Prettiest delivery girl
aver! Makeup-tree Heidi
Klum, 43, carries three
large coffees in NYC
after revealing beau Vito
gifted her 10 dozen red
roses

Sizzling Katie Holmes
gives a rare glimpse at
her sultry side as she
poses nude in gorgeous
throwback snaps from
jewelry campaign
She is 37

A Givenchy girl! Model
Lily Aldridge steps out in
$1,250 designer
SWEATSHIRT as she
shows off slim lags in
NYG
Victoria's Sacret Angel

hitp:/Avww.dailymail.co,uk/news/article-1361039/Prince-Andrew-girl-17-sex-offender-friend-flew-Britain-meet-him.html 8/34

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014667
