they believe to be questionable companies. So far that has not been a problem but it could come up in
the future.

The fact that you are requested for so many scouting events in various countries and cannot promote
yourself properly to promote MC2 in the press due this problem has it’s own sent of repercussions in
terms of our global branding. In short, it has had a terrible effect on MC2 all around. | really urge you
to solve this problem and get this removed from the internet so we can grow for the future. I’ve fought
for MC2 and been extremely loyal but | must confess that | have even been feeling inadequate and
questioning my ability as the leader of the organization. | can only attribute the fact that we have
scraped by in the recession and barely survived in the past to your hard work, my hard work, and the
tenacity of both of us combined.

| can only imagine that if | am feeling inadequate and frustrated over a lack of growth of our company
that you must feel even worse as you have had much greater success in your career and have operated
at much higher standards in our industry in all areas from reputation, respect, admiration and monetary
gains. | can even surmise you are probably feeling a level of depression and | have seen it in your highs
and lows and when you have vaiced your frustration. While | know you well and recognize you don’t
really go for the kind of advice | will offer; however, | think you should at least speak to someone neutral
such as a therapist or a counselor to let your frustrations out and if you don’t feel better and are still
feeling down or depressed to see a medical doctor for your condition. You are such a positive person |
hate to see you fighting what you feel is a hopeless battle. It is not hopeless you just need find a way to
get that information offline and begin to repair your reputation. In the end | am afraid the damages are
a lot more than you realize but let’s keep fighting and moving forward as we have no choice.

Thanks,

Jeff

Jeff Fuller
President

MC2 Model Management USA

EXHIBIT K

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_012020
