Ti v4 Expert Analysis

COMMENT. The Supreme Court deci-
sion will presumably trigger tie-breaker
rules and divorce settlement agreements
previously available only to opposite-sex
married couples.

Education Benefits. Access to a number of
education tax credits by same-sex couples
has been limited, both because of a student’s
status as a member or non-member of the
taxpayer's family and because lower phase-
out levels that apply to unmarried filers.

a AOTC and Lifetime Learning Credit:
A taxpayer can claim the American Op-
portunity Tax Credit (AOTC) or the
Lifetime Learning Credit for qualified
expenses paid by the taxpayer for the
education of the taxpayer, the taxpayer's
spouse, or the taxpayer’s claimed depen-
dent for the tax year for which the credit
is claimed. Because of DOMA, a taxpay-
er could not claim the AOTC or Lifetime
Learning Credit for qualified expenses
paid by his or her same-sex spouse.

u Coverdell Education Savings Ac-

A Coverdell Education Sav-

ings Account (ESA) is a savings vehicle

counts.

similar to an individual retirement
account (IRA). If a Coverdell ESA
is transferred to a surviving spouse as
the result of the beneficiary’ death,
the Coverdell ESA retains its status
and the spouse may treat the account
as his or her own and need not with-
draw the assets as a result of the trans-
fer. Because of DOMA, this treatment
had been unavailable to the surviving
spouse of a same-sex married couple.

a IRA Withdrawals For Education.
Taxpayers who own IRAs (tradi-
tional, Roth, SEP IRAs and SIMPLE
IRAs) can make penalty-free with-
drawals to pay higher education ex-
penses to the extent the distribution
does not exceed the qualified higher
education expenses of the taxpayer,
the taxpayer's spouse, or the child or
grandchild of the taxpayer or the tax-
payer's spouse. Once again, because
of DOMA, this treatment had been
unavailable to the surviving spouse of
a same-sex married couple.

CCH Tax Briefing

Post-Death IRA Payments. When a surviv-
ing spouse is the beneficiary of an individual
retirement account (IRA) he or she has cer-
tain options not granted to other beneficia-
ries, including the ability to rollover the de-
cedent’s IRA, tax free, to another retirement
plan. And, if the surviving spouse is the sole
beneficiary, he or she can elect to treat the
IRA as if it were his or her own. These op-
tions may allow the survivor to delay the
start of required minimum distributions
(RMDs) from the account and to stretch
out the payment of RMDs over a longer pe-
tiod of time. DOMA had foreclosed these
more favorable spousal benefits for same-sex
married spouses. The Supreme Court’s deci-
sion in Windsor presumably opens up these
distribution benefits to same-sex spouses.

“In the case of family
attribution rules, it is
unclear whether application

of marital status for same-
sex spouses relates back
to transactions already
completed.”

Family Stock Attribution Rules. Code Sec.
267 contains attribution rules designed to
prevent related taxpayers (including “spous-
es’ under Sec. 267(c)(4)) from recognizing
losses and other tax benefits otherwise al-
lowed in a variety of transactions. For ex-
ample, an individual is treated under Code
Sec. 318(a)(1) as constructively owning stock
owned directly or indirectly by his or her
spouse (unless legally separated), children,
grandchildren, or parents. Stock attribution
rules under Code Sec. 318 apply when de-
termining whether a redemption of stock is
treated as a sale or exchange or as a dividend.
Likewise, prohibited transactions involving
pension plans under Code Sec. 4975 are
defined, in part, upon dealing with certain
persons, including spouses of those persons.

IMPACT. The Supreme Court's grant of
Federal marital status to same-sex married

persons is apparently not only prospective
starting June 26, 2013, the date of the
Windsor decision, but also presumably
applies retroactively to all open years.
Nevertheless, in the case of attribution
rules, application of marital status for
same-sex spouses may not necessarily re-
late back to transactions already com-
pleted. The need under the tax laws to
have finality for transactions as they oc-
cur appears to be the overriding argument
in favor of not giving retroactive effect to
family attribution. Eventual IRS guid-

ance on this issue is anticipated.

Resident And Non-Resident Aliens. Pre-
sumably, the Supreme Court’s decision ap-
plies to same-sex resident or nonresident
aliens to the extent they are considered mar-
ried under the law of a foreign jurisdiction.
Further clarification of the application of
the Supreme Court’s Windsor decision to
these taxpayers may be needed.

ESTATE AND GIFT TAXATION

The Windsor case, as discussed above in this
Briefing, involved the estate tax marital de-
duction. The marital deduction is a key plan-
ning tool to defer transfer taxes until the
surviving spouse dies. Because of DOMA,
same-sex married couples could not take
advantage of the estate tax marital deduc-
tion and other provisions, such as portabil-
ity. DOMA also precluded same-sex married
couples from the benefits of special rules for
gifts between spouses and from spouses.

Marital Deduction. Code Sec. 2056 provides
an unlimited deduction from the gross estate
for property passing from a decedent to a sur-
viving spouse. Generally, the decedent must
be survived by his or her spouse who is a U.S.
citizen at the time of the decedent’s death, the
property interest must have passed from the
decedent to the spouse, and the property inter-
est must be a deductible interest. Additionally,
the property's value must be ascertainable.

IMPACT. The relatively high $5.25 mil-
lion estate tax exclusion for 2013 for
all estates makes addition of a marital

©2013 CCH Incorporated. All Rights Reserved.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_029310
