PWC ,?? Task,- dont know. BDO is almost finished - who,? dont know; . akin gump
agrees. . Fenn? - not sure.

I have spoken to each of karp , pezner, fenn, brad. joslin, bodian. multiple times . like your office no
one in charge with knowledge. so rudderless hysteria . silly beyond belief as this issue is a non event. other
issues have been shunted aside that have real consequences. I know you are jet lagged. I am schedule tightly
today , but can free myself for 15 minutes if you want. if so have melanie talk to lesley
Date: Monday, 3 October 2016
Subject:

To: Jeffrey Epstein <jeevacation@gmail.com>
alan told me you are going to meet tomorrow morning. He has asked me to review the presentation. I
suggest you see for yourself. since you argued that he was partial architect of the big transaction. you will
see. -- bad numbers. unclear assumptions. opaque presentation. no alternatives. no review of
agreements. standardized schedules without names , handed out to the dentists... NOT even up to date
inputed numbers , why in the world would they present numbers 4 months old. ??!!/ itis only
imputs. dividend assupmtions. a mix of silliness. ( art given to museums is listed as cash out ). discount rates
of 13.05 %. what type of number. . 100k for illness expense and funeral, in a spread sheet of 5 billion
dollars.? insurance numbers left out. says debra owns half the boat? taxes? all a waste of time

A clat probabaly makes sense. however who runs it, if interest rates change. did you give them the
assunptions on growth?

Date: Sun, May 1, 2016 at 6:51 PM
Subject: Fwd: Valuation Discount
To: Melanie Spinella
Leon please read the attached proposed response to the IRS, see if you can understand it !!!. Ive asked for a
re-do. and given prelimiary directions to Alan to have it edited over the weekend

If you are quarterbacking ,ok with me. just please let everyone know. you must deal with the outrageous
incompetence in your family office... Alans words  but I was told that.., but I was told by the office (sic)
that ... , BUT i was told by joslin,. , but I was told by.  why is leon blaming me for... . I ve have always
given you my best advice, If you reflect on your financial life , you have been kept safe , had remarkable
results and no disasters. I have repeatedly urged you to get rid of the people in your office. , you
have repeatedly chosen to ignore my advice , youtold me last week that the emotional reason was in order
to be weaned off my group and not have to pay my high fees. ( though ignoring the benefit of between 1.5
and 2b to the better. ). and no explosions. You have email after email ,where i remind you that I am not
your bookkeeper or accountant (in brads corporate speak his finance dept ??!!) that it should be redone .I
have reviewed a multitude of the silly reports given to you and have pointed out the continued numerous
inaccuracies. your question  so what if the numbers are off , so what if the categories are off. whats the big
deal??. I suggest you de risk you finances and make the tough decisions necessary - pay the right amounts (
high) to get the work done properly or , you are , Im afraid, certain to get an unhappy answer.. tom will be
back from vacation. this week.

Date: Thu, Apr 28, 2016 at 5:16 PM

Subject: Valuation Discount

To: jeffrey E. <jeevacation@gmail.com>

I am attaching a draft response from Empire Valuation as to why it arrived at a valuation discount on the low
end. Let’s discuss the response and next steps. Thanks. Alan

Date: Wed, Nov 9, 2016 at 10:27 PM

Subject:

To: Melanie Spinella

sorry, I can call on thurs or sit face to face fri afternoon. . I will be inny until monday morning. decisions-
questions good news. I havea really elegant solution for most of the following, 1 gift tax. cash or in kind.
2.1031. 3 fire drill brh traetc. 4. xxxx 5. 8865s.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_023329
