parlor and quickly realize that the big boss’s methods duplicate effort. I do it my way, finish in one hour
instead of eight, and spend the rest of the time reading kung-fu magazines and practicing karate kicks
outside. I am fired in a record three days, left with the parting comment, “Maybe someday you'll
understand the value of hard work.” It seems I still don’t.

1993 I volunteer for a one-year exchange program in Japan, where people work themselves to death—
a phenomenon called karooshi—and are said to want to be Shinto when born, Christian when married,
and Buddhist when they die. I conclude that most people are really confused about life. One evening,
intending to ask my host mother to wake me the next morning (okosu), I ask her to violently rape me
(okasu). She is very confused.

1996 I manage to slip undetected into Princeton, despite SAT scores 40% lower than the average and
my high school admissions counselor telling me to be more “realistic.” I conclude ’m just not good at
reality. I major in neuroscience and then switch to East Asian studies to avoid putting printer jacks on cat
heads.

1997 Millionaire time! I create an audiobook called How I Beat the Ivy League, use all my money
from three summer jobs to manufacture 500 tapes, and proceed to sell exactly none. I will allow my
mother to throw them out only in 2006, just nine years of denial later. Such is the joy of baseless
overconfidence.

1998 After four shot-putters kick a friend’s head in, I quit bouncing, the highest-paying job on
campus, and develop a speed-reading seminar. I plaster campus with hundreds of god-awful neon green
flyers that read, “triple your reading speed in 3 hours!” and prototypical Princeton students proceed to
write “bullsh*t” on every single one. I sell 32 spots at $50 each for the 3-hour event, and $533 per hour
convinces me that finding a market before designing a product is smarter than the reverse. Two months
later, I’m bored to tears of speed-reading and close up shop. I hate services and need a product to ship.

Fall 1998 A huge thesis dispute and the acute fear of becoming an investment banker drive me to
commit academic suicide and inform the registrar that I am quitting school until further notice. My dad is
convinced that ll never go back, and I’m convinced that my life is over. My mom thinks it’s no big deal
and that there is no need to be a drama queen.

Spring 1999 In three months, I accept and quit jobs as a curriculum designer at Berlitz, the world’s
largest publisher of foreign-language materials, and as an analyst at a three-person political asylum
research firm. Naturally, I then fly to Taiwan to create a gym chain out of thin air and get shut down by
Triads, Chinese mafia. I return to the U.S. defeated and decide to learn kickboxing, winning the national
championship four weeks later with the ugliest and most unorthodox style ever witnessed.

Fall 2000 Confidence restored and thesis completely undone, I return to Princeton. My life does not
end, and it seems the yearlong delay has worked out in my favor. Twenty-somethings now have David
Koresh-—like abilities. My friend sells a company for $450 million, and I decide to head west to sunny
California to make my billions. Despite the hottest job market in the history of the world, I manage to go
jobless until three months after graduation, when I pull out my trump card and send one start-up CEO 32
consecutive e-mails. He finally gives in and puts me in sales.

Spring 2001 TrueSAN Networks has gone from a 15-person nobody to the “number one privately
held data storage company” (how is that measured?) with 150 employees (what are they all doing?). I am
ordered by a newly appointed sales director to “start with A” in the phone book and dial for dollars. I ask
him in the most tactful way possible why we are doing it like retards. He says, “Because I say so.” Nota
good start.

Fall 2001 After a year of 12-hour days, I find out that I’m the second-lowest-paid person in the
company aside from the receptionist. I resort to aggressively surfing the web full-time. One afternoon,
having run out of obscene video clips to forward, I investigate how hard it would be to start a sports
nutrition company. Turns out that you can outsource everything from manufacturing to ad design. Two
weeks and $5,000 of credit card debt later, I have my first batch in production and a live website. Good

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013810
