8/15/2016 Case 1:18) (BP FRIES Ol yercepene hin R Hie.

$GicoFipines BEMBVAG! OMyyed Ghigb 5

» AFP/Getty Images
Guests: Virginia says she also mot former Vico President Ai Gore, pictured right with Mr Clinton

Last summer, the Gores abruptly announced that they were ending their supposedly fairytale
marriage and, just weeks later, it emerged that Mr Gore — the famously sanctimonious global-
warming disciple ~ had been accused of trying to force sex on a woman with whom he had booked a
therapeutic massage at an Oregon hotel.

‘Lhad no clue that anything was up,’ Virginia says. ‘The Gores seemed like a beautiful couple when | ‘We just want them to
met them. All| knew was that Mr Gore was a friend of Jeffrey’s and Ghislaine’s. Jeffrey didn'task me have anormal life’.
to give him a massage. Blake Lively reveals her

parenthood plans now
‘There might have been a couple of other girls there on that trip but | could never have imagined this _—that baby no.2 is onits

guy would do anything wrong. | was planning to vote for him when | turned 18. | thought he was way and why she fell in

awesome.’ love with Ryan
Reynolds

Virginia said that yet another American liberal icon, President Obama's Middie East peace envoy

Senator George Mitchell, frequently visited Epstein’s New York residence. ene be Miley

yrus and Liam

Mr Mitchell, aged 77 ~ who previously led America’s Northern ireland peace initiative — ‘was very Hemsworth temporarily

close to Jeffrey,’ Virginia recalled. ‘He is very clean-cut. You wouldn't think of him being part of go their separate ways.

Jeffrey's crew.’ atter very public dinner
date in NYG

Ivanka Trump shares
morning snap of baby
Theo watching her get
ready as she admits in
that she wakes up at
6:30am and goes to
work with her hair wet

They couid be sisters!
Princess Mary of
Denmark and Duchess
of Cambridge look
strikingly similar as they
enjoy a catch up at
Royal Ascot

Brooke Shields’
stalker GRINS walking
into court with trial
entering third day after
Judge hears actress's
tearful testimony about
man coming to her
home

Mixing business with

t ™
Richard Young pleasure! Bodysuit-clad

: : sas EJ Johnson gets in

Scandal: U.S. authorities want to interview Jeffrey Epstein (left) and may wish to quiz his friend, Prince Andrew some retail therapy

aoe nsnntinien es nuntsantninvaranne nes recent nl ne arn ene raster rare auaanetnti memes efoeg filming his yat-4o-

Epstein’s contacts book contains a work and a home telephone number for the senator. air New York reality

, hi

Another acquaintance was Israel defence secretary Ehud Barak, whose spokesman told The Mail anew

on Sunday: ‘Mr Barak did attend several small functions in Mr Epstein’s home in New York that were vers ’bana?

usually attended by leading businessman, university presidents, Nobel Prize Laureates and ze all nee

prominent public figures.’ ontitnlor Night 9
hitp:/Avww.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-1363452/Bill-Clintor- 15-year-old-masseuse-|-met-twice-claims-Epsteins-girt.htm! 3/31

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_014671
