12

REPEAL AND REPLACE

few days after the election, Steve Bannon told the president-elect—in what Katie

Walsh would characterize with a raised eyebrow as more “Breitbart shenanigans”—
that they had the votes to replace Paul Ryan as Speaker of the House with Mark Meadows,
the head of the Tea Party-inspired Freedom Caucus and an early Trump supporter.
(Meadows’s wife had a particular place of regard in the Trump camp for continuing a
campaign swing across the Bible Belt over Billy Bush weekend.)

Nearly as much as winning the presidency itself, removing Ryan—indeed, humiliating
him—was an ultimate expression of what Bannon sought to accomplish and of the mind-
meld of Bannonism and Trumpism. From the beginning, the Breitbart campaign against
Paul Ryan was a central part of its campaign for Donald Trump. Its embrace of Trump,
and Bannon’s personal enlistment in the campaign fourteen months after it began, was in
part because Trump, throwing political sense to the wind, was willing to lead the charge
against Ryan and the GOP godfathers. Still, there was a difference between the way
Breitbart viewed Ryan and the way Trump viewed him.

For Breitbart, the House rebellion and transformation that had driven the former
Speaker, John Boehner, from office, and which, plausibly, was set to remake the House
into the center of the new radical Republicanism had been halted by Ryan’s election as
Speaker. Mitt Romney’s running mate, and a figure who had merged a conservative fiscal
wonkishness—he had been the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee and,
as well, chairman of the House Budget Committee—with an old-fashioned idea of
unassailable Republican rectitude, Ryan was the official last, best hope of the Republican
Party. (Bannon, typically, had turned this trope into an official Trumpist talking point:
“Ryan was created in a petri dish at the Heritage Foundation.”’) If the Republican Party
had been moved further right by the Tea Party rebellion, Ryan was part of the ballast that
would prevent it from moving further, or at least at a vastly slower pace. In this he
represented an adult, older-brother steadiness in contrast to the Tea Party’s ADD-hyper
immaturity—and a stoic, almost martyrlike resistance to the Trump movement.

Where the Republican establishment had promoted Ryan into this figure of not only

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_020004
