18

with the new provisions. However, announcement of the changes was
postponed until after the referendum. The SCAF is expected to issue
those laws, which will likely be designed to make elections freer and
fairer, by decree. The SCAF has suggested that it will change the law
on political parties, making it much easier for new parties to register.
The Muslim Brotherhood is one of the many groups that would likely
take advantage of such a change. The SCAF might also move from
the current electoral system of individual parliamentary districts to a
proportional representation system in which at least some of the seats
would be allocated by a party’s share of the national vote instead of
giving all of them to the winning candidates in each district. But if
the SCAF is planning on such a move, it has not tipped its hand.

The SCAF has also suggested that parliamentary elections will be
held before presidential elections. Last week, one of its members
argued forcefully that attempts to reverse the sequence and have the
president elected first (as some have suggested would be preferable
because parliamentary elections will be much more complicated than
presidential elections) might simply deliver another dictator. But the
generals have also suggested that they may push parliamentary
elections back from May or June (when they originally suggested
they might be held) until September. This is likely a response to those
who claim that Egypt’s party system is simply not sufficiently
organized for elections in two or three months.

The SCAF initially suggested that it might hold the presidential
election in the late summer or early fall; if parliamentary elections are
postponed until September, then the presidential election might be
pushed back until the end of the year.

Under new nomination procedures contained in the constitutional
amendments, a party that gains at least a single seat in the upcoming
parliamentary elections will be able to nominate a candidate. (If the
Muslim Brotherhood is able to form a party and does gain seats, it

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030047
