an nam &® WN

285

relationship with him and he has an ability to
justify and explain his position in response --

MR. SCAROLA: [If it's responsive to the
question.

A. It's responsive. And as far as the
filibustering is --

BY MR. SCAROLA:
. Do you remember what the question is?
. ois concerned, I was here --
. Do you remember what the question was?
. Yes. Yes.
What is the question?
. The question is -- no, why don't you
repeat the question.

Q. Yes, sir.

A. So-

Q. You know that Bob Josefsberg would not
advance allegations on behalf of a client that that
client had been lent out by Jeffrey Epstein to
satisfy the sexual desires of friends of Jeffrey
Epstein, including academicians, unless Bob
Josefsberg believed those allegations to be true,
right?

A. 1 believe that -- | know that Bob
Josefsberg would never maintain a friendship with

worn nu &F WN

NNNNNN BH eB eB Oe Oe Oe oe oe oe
Ue WN ODO MON THU FB WN OO

287

the people who the FBI had put on the -- the list.
I just don't know what his responsibility was.

I can say with confidence that he would
only act ethically and would, A, not represent --
not make any false statements the way your clients
made them, and that I wish your clients had the
ethics of Bob Josefsberg.

Q. You then agree that if Bob Josefsberg
advanced the claims that I have described ina
complaint on behalf of a client, he would not have
done so unless he believed those allegations to be
truc, having conducted a fair and reasonable
investigation, correct?

MR. SCOTT: Objection, asked and answered

several times.

A. I don't know the answer to that question
because | don't know the context in which he made
these arguments. All I do know is that he never
would maintain a friendship with me if he believed
in any way that I was one of the people that she had
accused.

BY MR. SCAROLA:

Q. Did Alfredo Rodriguez, another one of your
friend's staff persons, have a motive to lic against
you?

wo oawag ra HY PWN

NNNNN YN HB HP BF BP BP BP OB OP oe
OB WNHH OW MIA U BH wWN RO

286

me, as he has, if he believed that | was one of

those academicians. Bob Josefsberg knows that | was
not one of those academicians, and the inference of
your question is beneath contempt, sir.

Q. Could we try to answer the question now?

A. The answer is that Bob Josefsberg would
never maintain a friendship with me if he believed
that there was any possibility that I was among the
academicians who she was accusing of sexual
misconduct. I do not believe that she ever accused
me of sexual misconduct to Bob Josefsberg, to the
FBI, to the U.S. attorney, or even, sir, to you and
Bradley Edwards, as she says in 2000, I think, 'IL.

1 think she made up this story on the eve of the
filing in 2014.

Q. You do agree that Bob Josefsberg would not
have advanced the claims that he advanced if he did
not have confidence that they were true, correct?

A. {have no idea what he believed or knew at
the time. I would say this: [ know Bob Josefsberg
is an extraordinarily ethical lawyer. I don’t know
what his responsibilities were in the case. I don't
know whether his responsibilities were to make those
kinds of judgments or whether his responsibility was
simply to make sure that money was paid to each of

aw nam &® WN

NNNNN NF BBR PP HP HR PH
vB Wd FP OO ON THM WN HF OW

A. Alberto Rodriguez --

Q. No, sir, Alfredo Rodriguez.

A. Alfredo Rodriguez, I never knew him by
name. He was, of course, there out -- well outside
of the timeframe of the alleged events in this case.
And so anything that he would be able to testify to
would bear no relationship whatsoever to the -- the
allegations here.

He was criminally prosecuted, to my
memory, for having stolen material and turned it
over to Bradley Edwards is my recollection. And as
the result of that clearly had a motive to lie. And
the same with Mr. Alessi, clearly would have a basis
for believing that I may have played a role as
Jeffrey Epstein's lawyer in seeking to do harm to
him.

But again, there’s nothing in
Mr. Rodriguez's testimony which is in any way
inculpatory of me. I think he has me sitting and --
and reading a book and drinking a glass of wine.

. In the presence of young women?
. No.
No?

28 (Pages 285 to 288)

www.phippsreporting.com
(888) 811-3408

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_010810
