or left. The new information being generated by the pattern of spatial orbits took the
form of sequences of numbers or symbols representing the sequence of labeled
boxes. The complexity of these numeric or symbol sequences was then quantified
in a variety of ways including the use of two fundamental measures of dynamical

entropy.

One measure reflects how many new, previously unexplored boxes were
entered by the rat per unit of time. This rate represents a percent of the possible.
The second measure reflects how much of the time did the rat in each box visited
as a distribution of the probable. The rate of expansion of the possible and the
relative time in occupancy of these possibles, the probables, form the bases for the
computation of these two kinds of entropies. For example, the work of Paulus and
Geyer showed that the administration of a very small amount of stimulant drug,
compared with a salt water control, led to an increase in the first measure of the
number of new, previously unexplored, boxes entered per unit time. With respect to
the second measure, the stimulant drug augmented exploratory activity was also
more uniformly distributed over the possible boxes, making for more uniform
probability. Administration of higher doses of stimulant drugs, at a critical dose, led
suddenly to more spatially and temporally restricted and stereotyped patterns of
motion of the rats, compulsive circling alternating with frozen sniffing. Both
contributed to a decrease in the possible and nonuniformity in the distribution of the
probabilities. In man, low doses of amphetamine tend to increase the rate and
creativity of thought streams and high doses generate fixed ideas and paranoid
delusions. In the statistical approach to nonlinear dynamical systems, time-
dependent generation of new possibilities is called topological entropy, H; and the
entropy associated with the distribution of probabilities is called the metric entropy,
Hy. These kinds of entropies have also been used to quantitate characteristic

patterns of in human behavior as well.

We have previously mentioned these measures as used in human
experiments by Karen Selz, a Research Professor of Psychiatry at Emory University
in Atlanta. Recall that she devised a set of experiments leading to unobtrusive

measures made on human subjects by asking them to remove, as many as they

80

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013580
