si

¢ The granting of independence to Syria...constitutes a good example
of the socialist principles in Syria.... [But] as to the presence of a
parliament and a constitutional government, that does not represent
individual freedom. This parliamentary rule is no more than false
appearances without any value. In truth, it covers up a regime
dominated by religious fanaticism against the minorities. Do French
leaders want the Muslims to have control over the Alawi people in
order to throw them into misery?

¢ We can sense today how the Muslim citizens of Damascus force the
Jews who live among them to sign a document pledging that they will
not send provisions to their ill-fated brethren in Palestine. The
condition of the Jews in Palestine is the strongest and most explicit
evidence of the militancy of the Islamic issue vis-a-vis those who do
not belong to Islam. These good Jews contributed to the Arabs with
civilization and peace, scattered gold, and established prosperity in
Palestine without harming anyone or taking anything by force, yet the
Muslims declare holy war against them and never hesitated in
slaughtering their women and children, despite the presence of
England in Palestine and France in Syria. Therefore a dark fate awaits
the Jews and other minorities in case the Mandate is abolished and
Muslim Syria is united with Muslim Palestine...the ultimate goal of
the Muslim Arabs.

One of the signatories to this document was Sulayman al-Assad, a
minor chief of the Kalbiya clan and father of Hafez al-Assad.

The ‘asabiyya of the Alawis was carefully exploited by the French,
who polished the Khaldunian model by giving them military training
as members of the Troupes Spéciales du Levant. In the turbulent
years that followed full independence in 1946, their military know-
how proved valuable. Bright members of the sect such as Hafez al-
Assad, whose families could not afford to send them to university,
joined the armed forces and were drawn to secular parties, such as the

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_030090
