> Tax Planning (www.irs.gov/publications/p54/index.html)

More good news. Even if you permanently relocate to another country, you will have to pay U.S. taxes as
long as you have a U.S. passport! Not to fret—there are some creative legal sidesteps, such as form
2555-EZ, which can provide up to an $85,700 income exemption if you spend at least 330 days of a
consecutive 365 days off U.S. soil. This means you have 35 days in a given 12-month period to spend in
the U.S. as you like, but no more. That’s part of the reason my 2004 trip extended to 15 months. Get a
good accountant and let them do the detail work to keep yourself out of trouble.

» U.S.-Sponsored Overseas Schools (www:state.gov/m/a/os)

If the idea of pulling your children out of school for a year or two isn’t appealing, stick them in one of
more than 190 elementary and secondary schools sponsored by the U.S. Department of State in 135
countries. Kids love home work.

> Homeschooling 101 and Quickstart Guide (http://bit.ly/homeschooling101)

This subsection of http://homeschooling.about.com/provides a step-by-step process for considering
homeschooling options that can be applied to education during extended travel. Children can often return
to traditional public or private schools ahead of their classmates.

» Home Education Magazine (www.homeedmag.com) Rich collection of resources for homeschoolers,
traveling families, and unschoolers. Links include curriculum, virtual support groups, legal resources,
and archives. Good reasons to learn the law: Some U‘S. states offer up to $1,600 of funding per year for
qualified homeschooling expenditures, as it saves the state money to not educate your child in the public
school system.

» Universal Currency Converter ( www.xe.com )

Before you get caught up in the excitement and forget that five British pounds does not equal five U.S.
dollars, use this to translate local costs into numbers you understand. Try not to have too many “Those
coins are each worth four dollars?” moments.

» Universal Plug Adapter ( www.franzus.com )

Carrying bulky cables and connectors is irritating—get a Travel Smart all-in-one adapter with surge
protection. The size of a pack of cards folded in half, it is the only adapter that ve used everywhere
without problems. Note that it is an adapter (helps you plug things in), but it is not a transformer. If the
foreign wall outlet has twice as much voltage as in the U'S., your gadgets will self-destruct. Yet another
reason to purchase necessities abroad instead of taking them all with you.

HOUSE_OVERSIGHT_013972
